ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 1, 2018
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. DJOKOVIC/D. Dzumhur [Ret.]   
6-1, 2-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  We spent the last two weeks talking to you about maybe becoming No. 1 again and now it's a reality.  So how does it feel to be back top of the world?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I'm obviously very proud of the achievement, but I haven't been really reflecting on that and I haven't been really focusing on that too much because it's the middle of the week.  So I guess it will be different when I finish this tournament and hopefully the year-end, you know, ranking stays the same.   
So that's the aim and obviously then I'll be able to reflect on my emotions and share with you more.   
 Q.  So you've got to feel like lady luck is with you a bit with Rafa withdrawing and then a walkover today.  Do you have concern that you're not being challenged right now and sometimes it's that momentum into the later rounds that gets you there?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: To be honest, I don't need match play so I'm not looking for extra time on the court.  I'm not concerned that I don't have enough time on the court.  I played a lot of matches especially in the past five months.  And, you know, I've won a lot of matches.  So obviously, you know, results help to build confidence.  When you have a high level of confidence, then obviously you feel more comfortable with certain shots that you wouldn't normally feel comfortable if you don't have a high level of confidence.   
So it's quite different for me playing tennis in the last three, four months than the first three, four months of the year.  It's a big change in terms of the level of that confidence.   
And it's not the end of the season.  Rafa obviously is struggling with injuries since the US Open.  But the race is still there.  Roger is in the race.  Rafa is in the race.  It depends who is going to play London.   
So as I said, I can't be too ecstatic about it.  I'm obviously not happy to see him being injured and pulling out from the tournament in this final race for top rankings.  But at the same time, you know, reflecting on what I've been through in the last year, it's quite a phenomenal achievement.  And of course I'm very, very happy and proud about it.   
Five months ago if you told me that, I would be -- I always believe in myself, but it was highly improbable at that time considering my ranking and the way I played and felt on the court.  So, yeah, as I said, I'll probably be able to speak more profoundly about it when the season is done and hopefully if I get to finish as No. 1.   
 Q.  Just to add to that, I mean, the fact that only two people have ever done what you've done, outside the top 20 one part of the year and the No. 1 the other.  The other one was Safin.  The fact that two people have done that must make you feel proud and add weight to the achievement of getting back to No. 1.  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I did not hear about that fact, so thank you for enlightening me with that.   
Look, I know you guys want to speak about this right now because it's fresh.  Nadal pulled out from the tournament.  On Monday I'll officially be No. 1.   
I understand you guys want to go in depth about it, but as I said, please respect that I'm in this tournament and I have to focus on every match in this tournament and try to, you know, get as far as I can.  And then I'll be able to speak more about it next time we see each other.   
 Q.  Congratulations on moving on to the next round in this tournament.  To that end, your next-round opponent is Marin Cilic.  You have split the two matches that you have played against each other in 2018.  And the last time that you played each other here in Paris Marin beat you in straight sets.  What type of challenge does he pose for you in your next match together?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I had a very good head-to-head record until that match, actually a few years ago here.  And then, you know, he was playing really well, I remember.  He likes playing indoors.  Obviously he has a big serve and big game from back of the court.  It's just a very powerful style of tennis.   
And he's been playing well the two matches here I have seen him play.  And it's going to be a tough one.  Tough to receive his missiles.  You know, first serves are really, really fast, and he uses a lot of rotation and variation with his serve.  And if he has a first serve percentage quite high, then it's obviously a big challenge to play him because he's got the really big game from back of the court.  Great backhand, flat, you know.  He can play very aggressively and he can also defend well.   
But look, I know his game.  I've played him many, many times and we practice a lot.  We respect each other.  We get along very well.  We speak the same language.  So I'm looking forward to it.  It's going to be a great match.   
 Q.  Your game has evolved tremendously over the years.  And looking at where you are now, how much of your original coach Jelena's influence is still there?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, she built my foundation for the tennis and the base that I later on have been, you know, adding and building upon that base.  But the base is definitely from her.   
And, you know, I spent, you would say, crucial years of my development as a, you know, person and a tennis player.  I spend five years with her from 7 to 12.  And, you know, that's the age and those are the years when you're actually building a good foundation of the skill set, of the mindset, and just the way you go about tennis and how you approach it.   
So I was very fortunate to really have her in my life as my tennis mother as I like to call her.  And she really cared about me and about my grades in school, about how, you know, I treated other people and relationships and everything.  So she worked hand in hand with my mother and father and they trusted her.   
So she was that real mentor that I needed in order to, you know, I guess learn things about tennis but about life in general.  And I was mentioning before, you know, we were reading poetry, listening to classical music, looking at tons of videos from different sports and tennis.  So she had this very holistic approach in life and I think that's why today I do have that same approach.  I feel like every aspect of your life or being or everything you do, say, or act, you know, reflects on your career and your results, you know, just life in general.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.   
 Q.  Five months ago you were ranked 22 and now you're No. 1.  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: On Monday; I'm not yet.   
 Q.  You won US Open, Wimbledon, Shanghai, Cincinnati.  It went very fast.  Did you expect that to happen so fast?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I think, you know, every day I'm building up my confidence in my tennis skills as a tennis player.  I know that I come back and I can have my best game on the court.   
But it has been too fast as well.  Five months ago I was in a totally different position in terms of ranking but also in terms of feelings on court.  I didn't have very positive feeling at that time.  And it's a great journey that I had.  How do you call it?  Voyage.  Yes, a journey.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT