U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2018
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. DJOKOVIC/R. Gasquet   
6-2, 6-3, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Did it feel as efficient to you as it looked like from the outside?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, absolutely.  It was the best match of the week so far, without a doubt.  One of the best performances I had in the hard court season after Wimbledon.   
Came at the right time because Gasquet is a tricky player, someone that has plenty of experience, someone that I know very well.  Obviously he showcased today why he has one of the best backhands, one-handed backhands, in the game.   
I don't think he was playing bad.  He was there.  It seemed like he just needed a few points to break through.  I was lucky to really save some crucial breakpoints in the third set.  If he got back that break, who knows.  He was playing well.   
I thought I was playing on a very high level from the first point.  Very, very pleased with the performance.   
 Q.  You didn't sound that pleased after your last match.  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah.   
 Q.  Dip in the third set.  Does coming off a match where you're not thrilled with things maybe change your approach or help you refocus?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, yeah, I mean, it does.  It makes me focus I guess more on certain aspects of my game that were not working as well as I wanted them to.  That's a good thing about Grand Slams, is you have a day in between you can work on these kind of things.  I spent an hour and a half on the court yesterday, really worked specifically on certain things and prepared for today's match.  I think my team and I have done a really good job.  You could see that with the performance tonight.   
 Q.  The next match against Sousa?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: He made a good win a few days ago, today against top-15 player.  He deserves a credit for reaching first time last 16 in a slam.  He doesn't have anything to lose.  He's a fighter.  He grinds.  He doesn't give you too many free points.  He makes you run.  He loves to run.  Loves to run around his backhand, hit some forehands.  Plays pretty flat.   
I've played him.  I think I played him here many years ago.  Haven't played him for a while.  Anyway, look, I know that I'm clear favorite in the match.  At the same time I will try to maintain the level of focus and performance and level of tennis that I've had today.  If it's like that, then I have a good chance to win.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT