ROLAND GARROS
June 5, 2018
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. CECCHINATO/N. Djokovic   
6-3, 7-6, 1-6, 7-6   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC   
(From Recording.)   
 Q.  How would you assess that match and the tiebreaks when you had so many chances?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, I mean, he played amazing and credit to him.  Congrats for a great performance.  He came out very well.   
I struggled from the beginning.  Unfortunately, it took me time to get well, and struggled with a little injury, as well, at the beginning.  And after, when I warmed up, it was better.   
But, yeah, just a pity that I couldn't capitalize on the chances in the 4-1 in the fourth set and some break points that I thought I had in there, but he came back and credit to him.   
 Q.  In the last months, they have said Novak is not fighting.  He has lost his spirit.  I know today was a question of a few points, but you are there back.  In your eyes you could see during the match...  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I am back in the locker room.  That's where I'm back.   
 Q.  Did you have issues going into this match or were there things that crept up?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Just couple of things, but nothing major, really.  I don't want to talk about that.   
 Q.  Do you feel like this is the kind of match that in a couple months' time, matches under your belt...  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I don't know.   
 Q.  Can you summarize how difficult it is to come back on the level you want?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: It is difficult.  Many things in life are difficult.   
 Q.  Are you able to articulate...  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I'm not.  I'm sorry, I'm not.   
 Q.  When do you think you'll first play on the grass?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I don't know.  I don't know if I'm going to play on grass.   
 Q.  At all?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I don't know if I'm going to play on grass.   
 Q.  The way Marco played today, it was pretty amazing.  How much further can he go?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: He went pretty far.  Semifinals is a great result.  But he didn't seem to be, you know, under impression of the big stadium or big match.  He just held his nerves amazingly well in the important moments.   
He's playing well.  He's going to play Dominic who is also in great form.  Dominic is obviously the favorite, but you never know.   
 Q.  You said you weren't going to play grass...  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I don't know.  I don't know what I'm going to do.  I just came from the court.  Sorry, guys, I can't give you that answer.   
I cannot give you any answer.   
 Q.  So many efforts to get back to practice, to get back to this event.  That makes it more heartbreaking?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah.   
 Q.  Novak, everyone has commented, the good grace you showed, warm embrace at the end.  How hard is it to accept defeat in such good grace in the same manner as you can accept victory?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, it's never been hard for me to congratulate and hug an opponent that just we shared a great moment on the court.  And the one that won deserved to win the match, and that was Marco today.  I know him well.  He's a great guy.  He deserved.  And that's something everybody should do.   
On the other hand, when you walk off the court, of course, it's a hard one to swallow.   
 Q.  Do you think it's the most painful defeat in your career?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No.   
 Q.  What did you miss the most on the court today, your opinion?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I don't know.  Just some moments.  Luck, as well.   
 Q.  Why is this one in particular so difficult to accept?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Any defeat is difficult in the Grand Slams, especially the one that, you know, came from months of buildup.  And I thought I had a great chance to get at least a step further, but wasn't to be.  That's the way it is.   
 Q.  What's your process now with regrouping after this defeat?  How do you get your mindset going forward?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I don't know.  I'm just not thinking about tennis at the moment.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT