INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
September 18, 2020
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. DJOKOVIC/F. Krajinovic
7-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. A tough first set that was, 1 hour and 27 minutes.  How did you find the stamina and composure to get through that set and win the match?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   It was definitely one of the longest sets I think I have ever played.  Never easy, I think, emotionally to play against someone that is one of my best friends for many years.
You know, we played only once against each other ten years ago in Serbia.  Obviously he's changed as a person and as a player, and it's strange that we have never really played against each other in the last decade.  You know, we practiced so many times and obviously been part of the Davis Cup together and ATP Cup.
I'm really pleased to see him doing well.  I think Janko Tipsarevic, former top 10, obviously a legend of Serbian tennis, helping him out as a coach with his team, doing a great job, he's top 30 now.
I knew he's in great form, and obviously my second match on clay, still haven't started this match the way I really wanted to.  I made a lot of unforced errors, but also credit to him for being aggressive and, you know, pushing me to the limit.
I think the first set could have gone a different way, as well.  Fortunately for me it went my way, and that has allowed me to kind of swing through the ball a bit more in the second set.  Maybe physically and mentally he dropped a level, and I used my opportunities and kind of capitalized to kind of win in straight sets.
Q. What does it mean for you to have 1,000 people for semifinal and final?  For you and for the tournament.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I just received that information right now.  I don't know if it's official or not, because things are changing quite a lot, day after day.
I hope that that's true.  If we are going to have 1,000 people, it's better than no people, I mean, for sure, because we all miss the fans, and part of our professional careers in sport is playing in front of them and for them, as well.
So I'm really glad that that's going to happen.  I mean, if it's official.
Obviously I'm hoping that we are going to stay on the center court, because I heard also they are considering to use Pietrangeli or NextGen court for semifinals and finals.  I hope it's not the case, because the quality of the clay and quality of the center court is, in my opinion, much better than the other courts, so hopefully we stay on the center.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT