BNP PARIBAS MASTERS PARIS
November 2, 2016
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. DJOKOVIC/G. Muller
6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. I was wondering, once the season is over and you are enjoying your time with your family, who are you going to root for in the next Davis Cup final?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I'm probably not going to watch it, because I have plenty of things to do at home.  But it's going to definitely be a very interesting final, because both teams have played some amazing ties this year.  I'm glad that both Cilic and Del Potro have carried their nations into the finals.  They are great people and great players.  Going to have to stay neutral there.
Q. It was a tricky first match for you.  At the end a pretty clean performance.  I guess you're pretty satisfied with what you have done?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes, it was great to start off the way I did today.  Not an easy opponent, definitely, because he, you know, serves and volleys, and I found the conditions quite quick, quicker maybe than they have been last year.  You know, so it was quite favorable for the player that I have played against today.
But nevertheless, I think I managed to find the right rhythm, right pace from the very beginning.  In the important moments, just played an extra ball back, got some returns in, made him play.  You know, capitalized on the opportunities when they were presented.  I was quite pleased with my serve.  I think I got a lot of free points there.  Yeah, it was quite good performance.
Q. Obviously we in the media are talking a lot about the world No. 1 ranking, because it's up this week for the first time in a long time.  Does that enter your consciousness, or is it like any other week for you?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I obviously try to focus, you know, my attention on playing match after match and putting quality and value into my game.  I know that if that's the case, then I can challenge anybody on the world in any surface, in any conditions.
So I do focus on my own quality, you know.  And what I bring to the court the last couple of months have been quite up and down, you know, with performances and quality of -- and the level of tennis.
But I'm quite pleased with the way things went on the court today.  That's all I'm going to focus on.
Q. Your win today means that in each of the last ten years you have won 60 matches or more.  What does that say about your commitment and desire to stay at the top of the sport?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I love the sport.  I love being on the tour.  I'm also aware that I have responsibilities, you know, being one of the top players and being in this privileged position.
But, you know, in the end of the day, it's really my choice to travel and compete and get motivated each day to really work and maintain that high level of commitment towards the sport.
That's all I can say.  You know, I know that bottom line is results will follow.  They will come as a consequence of the value I put in each day, not just in the tournaments but the days when you're spending on the practice court.  And just trying to keep that routine and discipline I think pays off.
Q. And Grigor Dimitrov, playing him tomorrow?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I think Grigor is obviously a very talented player.  He's been on the tour for some years now, and he's more experienced, I guess.  He has a hard-working ethics and always trying to improve his game.
You know, things didn't go really his way in terms of results after semifinals of Wimbledon, and, you know, couple of great months he had that year.
But, you know, on a given day, you know, with the big serve and forehand, he can hurt anybody, really.
So I'm sure he's gonna be very motivated to play well tomorrow.
Q. Which kind of benefits did you receive on the mental aspect, working with the Spanish guru Pepe and how long have you been working with him?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I don't know where you heard that he's a guru, first of all (laughter).
And second of all, he's been part of my team for several years.  He worked with my brother, as well, and he was, I think, 60, 70 in the world himself.  He's been in tennis for all his life.  I'm just glad that he came this week, together with my brother, to be with me and work with me.
Q. Just to expand on that, he was watching you today.  What does he bring to you as a person that, you know, that you need?  Define what he brings to you.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Look, you know, I'm not going to go into details, because there is no sense.  I know certain media is trying to find a story here in calling him guru and calling our work this and that.
I mean, to me, it's all funny and it's all, in the end of the day, people can say and judge and do whatever they want, so I'm not gonna give any room for speculations anymore.  He's been there, and he's part of the coaching team and that's all.
Q. Do you already know if Marian or Boris will be back with you in London?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes, they will both be there.
Q. On a day like today, everyone expects you to turn up and win.  How do you guard against that?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Can you repeat that question?  I mean, I love your accent.  It's hard to...
Q. I will speak slowly.
On a day like today, everyone expects you just to turn up and win.  How do you make sure you just don't mentally relax and that you are ready to win every game?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, you know, first of all, I mean, I'm very much aware of the quality of today's opponent and all the players participating in these big tournaments.
This is one of the biggest tournaments we have in sport, especially end of the season.  For many players this is the last tournament of the year, so they are all very motivated to finish the year in best possible fashion, you know.  They want to take, I guess, the last drop of energy and finish it off and give it all.
So Gilles is kind of in that position, and I expected him to play well because I saw him play a little bit last week against Nishikori, and he was match points there in Basel.  Tricky player.  There are not many serve-and-volley players.
But in the end of the day, for me, was more I'm focusing what I need to deliver to the court, you know, and find the right intensity, right concentration.
And then, when I did so, you know, everything -- everything else falls in place.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT