U.S. OPEN
September 11, 2016
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. WAWRINKA/N. Djokovic
6-7, 6-4, 7-5, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Does this match mean that tennis officially now has a big 5?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I mean, he deserves to be in the mix, no doubt about it.  Stan won three Grand Slams now and three different ones; Olympic medal.  Been around for so many years, and he plays best in the big matches.
I mean, he definitely deserves to be mentioned in the mix of top players.
Q. You called him a big match player just now and said it the other day.  You said today he was the more courageous player out there tonight.  What did Stan bring to you?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Simple as that, you know.  I just didn't capitalize at all on my opportunities.  I had plenty of them, break points.  It was a terrible conversion of the break points.  Just terrible from my side.
You know, in the matches like this, if you don't use the opportunities, the other guy comes and takes it.  And that's what he did.  That's why I said he was more courageous, because he stepped in and played aggressive where I was kind of more waiting for things to happen.
And that's it.
Q. You sometimes had matches where you're the one saving lots of break points, including the final here last year.  Do you remember a match like this for you before where you weren't able to capitalize?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: To be honest, I don't know.  I'm not sure.  You know, obviously Grand Slam finals are different than any other match.  I have lost a few Grand Slam finals, some close matches.
You know, this has been one of the worst stat on the break point conversion for me, that's for sure.
Q. What exactly was your fourth-set injury?  What effect was it having on you?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Just the toenails were off and bleeding.  Yeah, it was quite painful to move around.
You know, I tried.
Q. The past few years we have been used to you being focused and keeping your cool under pressure.  After the first set it seemed like there was a lot of anger towards your box.  Can you explain?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, you know, I lost my nerves in the important moments.  He kept his cool.  I think that's what decided the match.
I guess sometimes it happens, even though you have the experience and know what to do.  Just the heat of the moment and importance of the match, I guess, you know, was too strong for me at certain periods of the match.  Just if you lose your cool, the match can go away.
Q. You mentioned on court that you considered not playing in the Open I guess after Rio.  How seriously did you consider that, and was the toe injury something that bothered you at all before today?  Was that more the wrist?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No, no, it wasn't the toe.  The toe just happened today.  Some other injury that was, you know, very serious at the time.  I really didn't know whether or not I'm going to come, to be honest.  Decided like eight, nine days before the start of the Open just to try.
To play finals, it's quite amazing.
Q. You lost two Grand Slam finals now against Stan.  What makes it so difficult for you especially to beat him in strong moments like Grand Slam title?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, he just steps in.  He loves to play in the big matches.  He comes up with his best game.  He's so solid from both corners.  He's got a good slice and amazing one-handed backhand, all corners.  Big serve.  Moves well.
He's a very complete player.  Sometimes if he feels right he doesn't miss much and makes a lot of winners and it's hard to play him.  That's what happened today.
Q. Was there any cramping going on in the last set from you or just the toe?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No.
Q. And what was the effect of the toe having on your game?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I don't think it's necessary for me to talk about that now, you know.  He won the match.  He deserved to win this trophy, and that's it.
I don't want to talk about this and you guys think I'm finding excuses.  It's just not necessary.
Q. Can you talk about the weight of his shot?  Seems like he hits just a really heavy ball, heavier than others, compared to, say, a Rafa and Roger and Andy.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, he hits a very heavy ball, especially from the backhand corner.  Forehand is very flat.  You know, he goes for his shots from the forehand side.  Backhand, you know, great chip, great slice.  He uses that when he's defending and then he comes up, you know, and can get you off the court with a backhand crosscourt.
That's probably one of his best shots in the game.  Physically he's very strong, so he can endure a lot.
Q. Were you surprised that you were allowed to take a timeout before Stan's serve?  Do you think that was fair?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I was allowed, so I took it.
Q. Were you surprised that you...
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Why would I be surprised if I was allowed?
Q. Because the rules say it should be a key medical condition.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: It was.
Q. Of course in a match that lasted for almost four hours there are many moments which could be decisive.  Do you think there is one more than the others or some more than the others?  I remember, for instance, when you were up -- when Wawrinka was 2-1 in the second set, long time ago, you made two double faults.  I don't know if you were nervous, but two doubles in the same set is not usual for you.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I made a lot of double faults throughout this tournament.  I was struggling with that shot and with, you know, with the motion, with the movement and on the serve, with the technique because of what I carried into this tournament.
So, you know, I was working a lot on it and trying to find that rhythm, but my body has kind of compensated and, you know, made some different things to protect the problem I had with the arm.
You know, unfortunately it wasn't -- the serve wasn't there.  When it was needed it wasn't there, and in the big matches like this you need the serve.  I lost decisive games in second and third set.  Just handed him over with some unforced errors and bad serves.
But, you know, I guess I was trying to protect the serve, I guess, with other shots, but it wasn't to be today.
Q. I guess your schedule means that you next play or are due to play in Asia.  Are you concerned these injuries you have been worried about before the tournament and the injuries you suffered during the tournament, they have an impact on you maybe not playing there?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I sincerely doubt that this is going to prevent me from playing there.  I think I'm going to be ready.
Q. Obviously just stepped off the court after a tough loss, but it is the end of the Grand Slam year; there are still major tournaments.  You had that great triumph in Paris.  (Indiscernible) What's your assessment?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, winning four Grand Slams in a row for me was an incredible achievement.  I'm very proud of it, so this loss today cannot overshadow the great moments I have had in Australia and especially in Paris.
So winning two out of four Grand Slams is pretty good year, and playing another final.  I have no complaints.  Obviously I wish that I could win another title, but this is what it is.  You have to shake hands and accept the loss from a better player and move on, you know.
It's not the first time.  It's not the last time I'm going to lose a match, big match.  Hopefully I can learn from it.  Hopefully I can get better, because, you know, that's the cycle of life, I guess, for us athletes.
Q. Not just tonight, but this whole tournament there has been a lot of debate about injury timeouts, toilet breaks, whatever.  You're obviously a big guy now on the player council.  Do you think tennis needs to look again at the rules?  Do you think the game needs to look at trying to clarify what's allowed and what isn't?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: We'll talk about it, sure.  If players bring that up to the table, you know.  You know, I didn't have any I guess major complaints about that against me or me against any other player.
If there are -- if this is a debate and players think there should be something changed in the rules, of course we are there to discuss.  Will bring this up to the council soon I guess if this is a big deal.
Q. When you're talking about your mindset coming into the tournament on court, another thing you added is if anyone would say you'd play finals you'd take it.  Now you have played the finals and obviously disappointed in...
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: In this moment I don't take it, but...(Smiling.)
Q. That's my point.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, sure.  Of course.  Just coming off the court, it's never easy to lose Grand Slam finals, big matches, playing four hours, of course.
Of course everybody wants to be victorious, but at the end of the day, sometimes you win, you lose, and you've got to accept it, gotta accept it and gotta let it go.  From a larger perspective, why I said I'll take it because it was really, you know, in doubt whether or not I'm going to come here and up to really last day.
So I came in here, you know, struggled first couple of days with practice and first match and so forth, and then to get the finals, I mean, it's a big result.  Of course I set up a high standard for myself with great results I have had in last couple of years.  I'm really successful and I'm grateful for that.
But, you know, again, I have to try tomorrow to look from this different perspective and say, Wow, I played finals.  I mean, that's not too bad.
Q. You sound pleased to get to the final, but I'm just wondering if you feel like the lack of match play on the way through the tournament took its toll.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Not really.  You know, I don't feel like the lack of match play affected my performance today.  I just felt all right.  You know, I was hitting the ball well in quarters, fourth round, quarters, semis I was playing good.  Today I started off well, but down the stretch he was the better player.  As simple as that.
You know, sometimes in sport these things happen.
Q. Sorry to come to the question of medical timeouts, but I just wanted to clarify.  You said if other players are concerned it's something you would talk about on the player council.  Can I clarify what your personal opinion is?  Do you feel the present rules are okay?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I've gotta check the rules even better, I guess, after you guys brought it up.  Obviously there is a bit of a concern from, I don't know, media or players.  You know, there is speculations whether the rules are accurate or not.
So I've got to first check all the rules, because I don't know every single rule to, you know, perfection.  First I have to inform myself before I make any kind of statements.
For now, I know we out the inability for a player to ask for a medical timeout of he has cramps, for example.  That was a big debate couple years ago.  That's effective right now.
Other than that, I didn't hear too many complaints, to be honest.  But again, maybe I just haven't heard.  Now I have to speak with other players and get myself informed and see what it takes.
Q. In light of your doubts about coming to the tournament, thank you for your dedication to this hard-working city and those around the world who respect such courage as well as entertainment.  Why and how do you give so much of yourself in defeat as well as in victory in the sport of no substitutes or penalty serves after 235 minutes?  Is it the way you grew up or have you evolved into such a champion in all outcomes?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, thank you for your nice words and compliments.  I have to speak on my own behalf because obviously everybody is different.  But the way I see things in life, you know, my kind of mindset and ideology I guess is that whether or not you win or lose, you know, in the end of the day you have to be very respectful towards the opponent, towards the sport, towards the occasion, to those people who come to see you.
Of course in the heat of the moment your emotions are here or there.  You're tense.  You're trying your best to win.  Of course everybody is playing the sport because you want to make some kind of success in life.  You know, what defines success now, that's different for each one of us.
For me, success is not just winning tennis matches and winning trophies, you know.  It's more than that.  I guess my main source of playing tennis, main source of motivation for playing the sport, is because I really like it.  It's my choice to do it.
But, you know, once you get to the top and you have that privilege, status, and position, then I guess the importance of what you say, how you behave, what you do, is much larger.  Just not comparable to any other position in the rankings or so forth.
So I guess that kind of privilege, status, taught me a lot of lessons in life, and I got experience.  I learned a lot about myself, about who I should be, who I should become, and it's an everyday evolution for me and for everybody else.
That's the way I take it.
Q. You have had moments on this court, including today and in some of the big semifinals against Roger, where you kind of call for the crowd to get behind you.  Do you feel like that could have helped you in the fourth set?  I mean, you were injured, but also had your chances to have break points against him.  Did you want that support from the crowd?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I heard crowd chanting my name many times, so I'm very thankful.  I don't feel that that lacked on my side.
Of course Stan was getting support.  I was getting support.  The crowd was really enjoying the match and was really into it.  I saw a full stadium for four hours.  It was amazing.  Amazing atmosphere.
Q. A key stat was the break point stat.  Why do you think you had such troubles specifically on break points today?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I was saying before, you know, I didn't take my chances.  I had many break points where I was in the rally, where I had a second shot, where I just missed some easy balls.  That's it.
Sometimes you get that kind of uncomfortable feeling and you're not able to, you know, let everything flow as you want it.  You know, you don't have things working the way you want them.  That's it.
Q. Being a protagonist of this match, can you compare the quality of this match with the one in Paris?  In Paris you were strong favorite before.  This time a little bit probably less because of your condition, situation, and so on.  At the end, what do you think you played better?  What do you think he played better?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Similar matches.  You know, I started well and won the first set in both finals, and then, you know, close second set.
Then he managed to kind of make this breakthrough, you know, in the second and third.  Then just both matches I think in the fourth set he was just playing his best where he was just swinging from every shot and every corner, going through the ball and being aggressive, taking his chances.
That's how I can, I guess, explain and maybe compare the same.
Q. Quality?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Quality, I mean, quality was there I think from both of us.  We both tried.  When you have top two players -- I mean, two top players playing against each other in a Grand Slam final, you expect good quality, of course.  We played four hours here and Roland Garros was almost the same, so I thought the tennis was good.
Q. Given the high standard you set for yourself and the great start that you had for this year, how are you going to look back on this summer from a physical and a psychological standpoint?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, there is a lot to learn.  You know, life is a big lesson.  It's a big book.  You know, we keep writing the stories.  There is another story to be written.
Of course, the end of this story for US Open.  I wish that it was a bit different, but again, I think -- and I will mention it again:  we learn much more from the losses like this than from wins.  Because when you're winning, everything is fine and you maybe, I guess, shadow certain things that are relevant for you to face and to tackle and to work on.
But when you lose, then all of a sudden, you know, you just start questioning yourself whether, you know, you have done things right or not and what can you do to be better as a person, as a player.
So that's where I'm at right now, and that's what I will think about for the rest of this season and next year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT