SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 15, 2016
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. BAUTISTA AGUT/N. Djokovic   
6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It's a tough one to lose.  What was the feelings with this match, your game?  How did you feel on the court?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I didn't feel as great mentally.  But credit to Roberto.  He played -- he was a better player, no question about it.  In important moments, I did have my chances, a lot of chances, but just was losing my service games, you know.   
In important moments he was more consistent.  He was more solid.  I just made too many unforced errors.   
 Q.  When you said you didn't feel good mentally, what was wrong?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I just didn't feel good, so...   
 Q.  You haven't play since US Open.  Do you plan to play before Paris?  I'm sure after this match you don't feel okay with what you have done.  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I mean, look, it was a solid tournament.  Obviously today I liked things to go differently, but again, as I said, you know, I have got to put my hat down to a better player who deserved to win absolutely today.   
I'm not planning to play anything before Paris, so I don't think I'll play.   
 Q.  Can you just tell us what the exchange with Carlos Bernardes was at the end of the match?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, I just don't understand, you know, the decisions that he has made.  You know, when you go to change your racquet, I went to change my shirt and then he gives me a warning.   
Well, he was the star of the show.  That's what he wanted to be today.   
 Q.  You were talking about balance yesterday, not boiling too much, keeping things in a good zone.  Harder to do some days than others?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah.  I guess this is one of those days.  You know, things go in an opposite direction than you want them, but again, it's a lesson.  Every day is a lesson.   
As I said, you learn from these kind of days and matches more than when you're winning.   
 Q.  If you won't play a tournament before Paris, what do you think you'll do?  Are you going to hit the practice court or just chill out for a while?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I'm going to celebrate my son's second birthday.  That's an event I look forward to.  I'm going to do a lot of things off the court, plenty of things off the court.   
 Q.  I realize there is a few more weeks to the year, but is this the kind of point where you just say, okay, 2016 is really in the books for me, I'll move on and think about 2017, or not yet?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, it's not yet over.  So there is couple of big tournaments still along the way:  Paris and London.  I'll try to get ready for indoor season where I always, in the last couple of years, played pretty well.  I'll try to get better.   
 Q.  It was an entertaining game, but was it a pleasure for you to be on court?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, some moments, yes.  Some moments not so much.  As I said, you know, overall I didn't feel as maybe as well as I did other days.   
But, you know, again, I guess we all, as humans, experience those kind of oscillations every day, and sometimes things don't go the way you want them to go.   
 Q.  Just basically, is there a sense of concern about the way the last six months, I suppose, since Roland Garros have gone?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I mean, you know, I have had finals of US Open and winning Toronto and a couple of good results.  In terms of results was up and down, but not to repeat the same story again, you know, there are definitely things that I need to retain kind of from the emotional/mental point of view.  Regain, regain, sorry.   
So, yeah, I guess I'm focusing on that more, so it's a transition somewhere in between, you know, maybe just exhausted by the amount of matches I have had in the last 15 to 20 months.  So maybe all in all that's the cause of me feeling this way.   
But again, you know, as I said, I had to experience sooner or later this.  I knew I could not go on playing on highest level for so many years all the time, you know, but it's good to experience this so I can hopefully get better in the period to come.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT