U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2016
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. DJOKOVIC/K. Edmund   
6-2, 6-1, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How pleased were you with that performance?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I was pleased.  Very pleased, except a little drop in the level in the third set, midway through the third set.  Other than that, everything was great.   
So it's good to play an entire match, you know, considering I had not much time spent on the court in last couple rounds.  So far I only played night sessions.  I actually like playing night sessions very much.  Hopefully the next one can be also night session.   
You know, I think if I do play at night it's going to help the fact that I've tonight versus Kyle also under the lights, because the conditions are quite different.  It's slower.  The balls are quite heavy.  They don't bounce as much, which I like, honestly.   
I'm playing against Tsonga next match, who is a big server.  I'm going to need all the conditions I can have.   
 Q.  How was the arm and the elbow?  The treatment looked incredibly painful.  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No, it was good.  It was good.  Everything was fine.   
 Q.  How would you gauge your fitness, having not done anything on court for six days?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I'm feeling very good, to be honest.  I really wanted to start the match well today because I didn't have much time on the court overall before the fourth round.   
Yeah, considering I had some struggles before the tournament, you know, I feel great at this moment physically; mentally as well I'm motivated.   
So coming into the second week of a Grand Slam quarterfinals feeling good, it's exactly where I want to be.   
 Q.  (Regarding Pouille winning a practice set.)  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I don't know what set he's talking about.  As far as I remember, I won in the tiebreak.   
No, I'm kidding.  It was an unbelievable match between Rafa and him today really.  Both of them played boldly.  When they were match points or breakpoints down, they both went for shots.   
In sport, at this level, these things happen.  You know, one ball can go your way, as it did his way.  He absolutely deserved to get the win.   
I don't think many people expected him to physically, you know, sustain that intensity with Rafa, considering he has played also a five-setter a couple days ago, finished late, and then had to play against Nadal.   
We all know tough it is to play against Nadal.  He makes you work for each point.   So very impressive from Lucas.  We all knew last couple of years he has a big game.  He has a potential if he gets it together.  He's doing it.  He's moving better.  He's using the court very well.   
Quarterfinals of Wimbledon, quarterfinals here.  Now he's coming closer to top 10.  He has the quality to be there.   
 Q.  You played Kyle in Miami about six months ago.  Do you notice any improvement, any maturity?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes, I do.  I think he was overwhelmed by the stage today.  I think he hasn't played on the level that he can, to be honest.  But his forehand is really big.  When he sets it up very nicely, he can hit a very good forehand from all over the court.   
Obviously his first Arthur Ashe night session.  His first match on the biggest stadium.  He made a lot of errors.  But generally he played a good tournament.  He beat Gasquet; he beat Isner.  For someone his age he's showing mental maturity, no doubt.  He's getting things together.   
I am sure we going to see more of him in the future.   
 Q.  Regarding Kyle, I think he's going to go up to about No. 55 in the world.  Can you see him being a top 20 or top 30 player?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Sure.  No doubt.  If he keeps going the same path that he's on right now, there is no doubt that he has a quality and big chance to get there.  He knows that there is work ahead of him.  He needs to stay committed.   
But he does seem like a profile of a person and a player that is very committed, very professional, down-to-earth, nice guy, good manners.  So, you know, I'm quite confident he's going to get there soon.   
 Q.  I must ask you again about the arm again.  You said everything was okay, but you obviously needed treatment on it.  Could you tell us what the problem was?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I needed a little bit of massage.  I like Clay.  That was a little deal we had before the match.  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  Was it causing you any pain?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No.   
 Q.  So why did you call the trainer?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: As I said, I needed a little bit of a massage.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT