WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 26, 2020
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. DJOKOVIC/J. Struff
6-3, 6-1
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. What did you learn about yourself out there this afternoon?  Is there anything you can point to as to why you have beat Struff as easily as you did?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, obviously Struff, being a big guy, he relies a lot on his serve, first serve.  It's a huge weapon of his.  But he wasn't serving that great, especially in the second set.  Gave me a lot of looks on the second serve.
Once we were in the rally, I thought I had a better chance to win the point.  So I thought I served very well.  That has helped a lot, to put additional pressure on his service games.  And I just tried to, you know, put as many returns back in play as I possibly could.
First set he started aggressively in the first couple of service games of mine.  There was couple times, 30-All, there was some points where I defended well.  If he had an early break, maybe things could have gone in a different direction, but I was just very comfortable on the court today, even though it was swirly.  It was cooler than the last couple of days.  Not as much humidity.  So that probably slowed the ball down a little bit and helped, you know, helped my game and helped me against Struff today.
Q. Is your neck still a concern or has that improved?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Right now it's not a concern.  It's still not 100%, but it's very close to that.  I have been gaining more range just on my movement of the neck every single day.
So, I mean, I have absolutely no complaints.  I mean, I can serve normally for second serve, so everything is fine at the moment.
Q. Earlier this week I know you said you only decided last week to play in New York.  You and Rafa are both within striking distance of Roger's majors record.  Given that Rafa has four US Open titles, a dozen Roland Garros, would you have counseled him to come here, defend his US Open and try to win and tie Roger's record this year, or can you understand why he stayed in Europe?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I can understand why he stayed in Europe.  Obviously these kind of circumstances are very unpredictable.  I guess he didn't want to risk, you know, his health, health of his team members, you know, coming here.
If that is the reason, I think that's what I saw in his statement, so, I mean, I fully understand that.  Of course he has full right and choice to do that.  Of course that's why the ranking system that is in place till the next year is actually protecting him and all the players that don't want to compete, not just on U.S. tour but eventually already some players who might not want to compete for a couple of months, which is understandable.
Look, every continent on this planet is going through its own battle and just different situations, so it's hard to really, for us tennis players, make easy decisions.
For me, personally, I have always wanted to come from the very beginning, but the reason why I kind of delayed decision to come is because there were some things that I actually talked about previously that were not confirmed and defined, for example, that I'll be able to come back to Europe and compete at the European tour without being quarantined.
So, you know, I'm glad that I'm here, personally.  I have been enjoying so far my stay.  Of course things are very different and unusual for us, but it is something that we just have to deal with.
Q. You have a very high level of respect for Roberto, and you have had some tough matches against him in recent years.  Curious if you could explain whether it's tactics or just tennis point of view why he's such a consistently tough player to beat?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, I think it's, first of all, his style of play is just so consistent.  He doesn't give away much at all.  He doesn't make too many unforced errors.
You can always expect him to play at that certain level.  I mean, he doesn't drop his level of tennis much at all on any surface.  That's why he's probably one of the most underrated tennis players that we have in the last five years.  I mean, Roberto is in top 15 of the world for the last whatever, three, four, five years.  He deserves I think more respect than he gets.
But I did lose to him on couple of, you know, big matches, Masters events like in Shanghai and Miami, as well.  The match that he played today against Medvedev reminded me of my match against Roberto in Miami a couple years ago where I was -- actually, it was last year, sorry, where I was winning comfortable, set, just having some chances in the second, and then things turned around.
But that's what he does.  He slows you down.  He kind of wears you down and tries to, in a way, if I can use that term, suffocate you on the court and just wait for his chances, and then he takes it.
Mentally, he's also very strong.  He's resilient.  He's just consistent all around.  You know, his win against in-form Daniil Medvedev today was impressive.  I'm sure it's going to be a great challenge for both of us tomorrow.  Hopefully we can have a good one.
Q. Juan Martin Del Potro underwent surgery this morning on his right knee, so it delay another come back for him.  Do you have some words to him?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   That I love him and that I support him and that I send him my best wishes, because, I mean, I don't know what more I can say.  I mean, he's probably one of the most unfortunate tennis players I have known with injuries.
The quality of tennis that he possesses and with that much time that he had in career that he played, he already has amazing career, but, you know, it's really unfortunate to see him struggle so much.
His fighting spirit and resilience to come back is something that's very inspiring to me and to everyone else.  He's a gentle giant, a very likeable guy.  I hope to see him soon.
You know, I know there is probably no one that wants to play tennis more than him right now, and he's, I'm sure, doing everything he possibly can.
He's also very tall, and that knee has been bothering him for so long.  I can relate in a way.  I had one major injury with my elbow some years ago, and I know how tough it is just being left out from the tour and unable to do what you love to do.
I just hope and I pray that he's going to be able to recover and play.
Q. You have played two, three matches now.  Is it getting any easier to accept the fact that there is no crowds there?  Are you more used to the situation?  How important is that going to be going forward?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   You know what?  I'm comfortable (smiling).  I'm comfortable for now.  I do miss crowd.  Of course, everyone does, because that's, you know, very big part of what we do in professional tennis.  But it is as it is, and I'm trying to take and make the most out of this situation and these kind of circumstances.
So far I have had a terrific tournament, reached the semifinals, haven't dropped a set.  I feel comfortable.  You know, I also like playing on this court right now.  I'm used to it.
Hopefully I'll be able to get to the finals and then, you know, obviously focus on US Open where I'll be most likely playing on the other two courts, Ashe and Armstrong.  I hope I can get a couple of days' hit on those courts, because they are different.  I was training on Ashe and it's a different speed, a different feel, obviously, on a big court.
But I like it.  You know, the bigger the court, the better it is, actually, for me.  You know, that's something that I'm used to.
So I will focus on Cincinnati obviously right now, trying to maximize my participation in this tournament and see where it takes me to the US Open.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT