MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 31, 2016
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. DJOKOVIC/T. Berdych
6-3, 6-3
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: (Recording in progress.)... had a little bit of a spasm.  Paul from the ATP did a great job and made sure I'm feeling well.
Q. Any concerns going forward?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No concerns.  Unbelievable none at all.
Q. Overall, I guess besides the serving in some of those conditions, how satisfied were you?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I think this was overall from the first to last point the best match I played of the tournament.
It comes at the right stage of the event for me.  I felt similar in Indian Wells.  Opening couple matches I struggled a little bit with the form.  As the tournament went on, I was just starting to find the shape I want to be in.
So as the tournament progresses here, I'm able to kind of raise the level of performance, and that's something that obviously satisfies me now.  I have a day off, and then prepare for the semis.
Q. Going into a match like this, and you now have a record of 23-2 against Tomas, how much confidence does that give you going in?  You have now won 22 of the last 24 sets against him.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Obviously it does have certain affect, maybe factors the mental side coming into the match.  To what extend and percentage I'm not really sure, but it definitely does play an important role in the preparation for the match.
Coming into the match, obviously opening few games, you know, you try to make yourself present for your opponent and try to come out with the (indiscernible)  Today, four games went over 25 minutes.  It was very physical battle.
But, generally, yeah, if you have that convincing head to head it can help, but not significantly, if you know what I mean?
He's established top 10, experienced player.  He had so many big matches and he's not overwhelmed by the occasion of playing big stadium with big players.  Doesn't play a very deciding role.
Q. One loss this year, and that was because of the eye thing.  Compare where you are at right now to where you were a year ago and how great a year it was last year.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, if I may say, I do feel better this year than I have felt last year at very same stage of the season.  That definitely satisfies me.
I'm hoping I can continue on, keep the same trajectory, and we'll see.  Season is very long.  So far couldn't ask for a better start.
Q. David Goffin next.  Thoughts?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Very confident player so far.  He's been playing very, very efficiently.  I think he's one of the quickest players; very good footwork from back of the court; very aggressive.
His transition is impressive from defense to offense.  Obviously having confidence playing so well and having the career-high ranking allows him to swing freely on the court.
That's what he has done so far, and he's going to be very dangerous in two days.  I know that.  I like my chances if I get to play the way I played so far in the tournament.
Q. Did you notice Caca watching the game courtside?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No, I haven't.  He's here.  I'll be glad to meet him.  I adore him as a player and personality as well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT