MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 6, 2016
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. DJOKOVIC/M. Raonic   
6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Do you think that the key of the match has been your returns?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: One of the keys of the match was getting as many returns back in play.  I knew that before I stepped on the court that I should not give him too many free points on his serve.  That's where the big servers get a lot of confidence.   
So I returned exceptionally well.  I thought I didn't do too many things wrong.  Very, very pleased with the performance.  When I was in trouble I came up with good serves, good forehands.  Maybe could have capitalized on the opportunities early in the second set to go double break, but credit to him for fighting, for being aggressive.   
It's not easy to play somebody that serves that big.  You know, I was very pleased with the return.  That was one of the best shots of the game today.   
 Q.  Talking more about your return, are you specifically targeting an area on your returns?  I notice in one of the last games you had three right at his feet.  Is that generally where you're aiming or trying to get it back any way you can?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: As I said on the court in my perfect Spanish, I think it's a combination of the right positioning, preparation before the match, you know, and analyzing his serves and his patterns when the things get tough.   
Every single player, especially big servers, have their patterns when it's close.  But sometimes it's just instinct.  It's just anticipation and trying to be in the right balance and look at the toss and maybe during the match get into his serve a little bit more.   
Well, if he serves close to the line, 220, not much you can do about it.  I thought that I covered most of my angles and returns very well and always made him play an extra shot.  That was obviously planned.   
 Q.  You get a completely different matchup tomorrow against Nishikori.  How do you see this one going considering the conditions and everything?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, he doesn't serve as big as Milos, that's for sure.  He's much quicker around the court and he's got a very aggressive, very good game for these kind of conditions.  He played couple years ago I think finals here.   
He dug himself out of the trouble against Fognini and Kyrgios today.  He's experienced player.  He's been on the big stage and has been part of the big matches so many times.   
I'll try to obviously take away the time from him because I know that he likes to stay close to the line and dictate the play.  I'll try to mix up the pace and prepare myself well.   
 Q.  How did you feel under the roof?  Conditions the different from yesterday?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Conditions might have helped me for returning better because I was slower than it usually is during the day when it's sunny.  So I enjoyed it.  I really did.  I think that it was even louder than usually is when the roof is not closed.   
So it was a fun and entertaining match.   
 Q.  There has been a report in the Bosnian newspaper apparently within the year or next year you'll play a series the exhibition tournaments in Bosnia and the other former Yugoslavian countries.  Any truth to that?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I'm sorry, I didn't understood understand.   
 Q.  According to the newspaper article you're going to play a series of exhibition tournaments...  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes, I know what you're alluding to.  I'm not going to do that this year, but you're referring to the region, playing exhibition matches in all the major cities.   
Not this year.  Not this year definitely.  But that was part of the plan talking to Marin Cilic from Croatia and Dzumhur from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and trying to arrange something that can be any event of celebrating sports and celebrating all the countries in the region that were once one country.   
It's nice because we all have a great relationship, and hopefully it's going to come to life in next couple of years.  But not this year for sure.   
 Q.  How do you disconnect and recover between your matches?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: How do I recover and disconnect you said?  Well, I don't disconnect.  I'm always connected.  I disconnect probably only when I sleep.  But everything aside that, I assure you my brain works 300 kilometers per hour.  That's usually the case when you're a part of the tour.  There is a lot of adrenaline and emotions going on.   
I think over time, over the years of playing so many matches and tournaments, you develop this kind of skill and experience of knowing how to handle these particular moments during a tournament.  Everybody is different.  It's hard to say what's the right formula for success.   
I like to have a right combination or balance between passive and active recovery, I would call it, you know.  Being involved in some things that are not only related to tennis or sports.  I enjoy many different things and trying to get my mind off the tennis.  That's how I recharge my batteries actually.   
You always try to rationally spend your energy.  Not too much outside and going around, because you need all your awareness and concentration for the match.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT