AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2016
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. DJOKOVIC/Q. Halys
6-1, 6-2, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Another young and talented player, but you win in straight sets.  Happy with how everything is going?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes, I think I played a good match.  Third set was a close set.  Was a battle.  Credit to him for fighting, for serving well.
You know, we got to a tiebreak where I held my nerves and played a solid tennis.  You know, he's a powerful player.  You know, big forehand.  He's being aggressive every time he had an opportunity.  He was just firing shots from both corners, from back of the court.
He deserved the credit and applause in the end of the match for a fight.
Q. Has anyone drawn your attention to the report published in a newspaper in Turin today?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No.
Q. It deals with a match at Bercy in 2007.  The headline on the story says, 'Djokovic wanted to lose.'  It was Santoro.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes, I remember that match.
Q. The story is connecting this match with changing odds that have been discussed in the previous couple of days.  I just wondered if you had any response to that?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: My response is that there's always going to be, especially these days when there is a lot of speculations, this is now the main story in tennis, in sports world, there's going to be a lot of allegations, so...
I have nothing more to say.  I said everything I needed to say two days ago.  You know, until somebody comes out with the real proof and evidence, it's only a speculation for me.
Q. Can you clear up about this match?  This is new from the other day.  You weren't well in that match.  You had your wisdom teeth done.  Remind us of the circumstances of that match.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: What it is to say?  I've lost that match.  I don't know if you're trying to create a story about that match or for that matter any of the matches of the top players losing in the early rounds, I think it's just absurd.
Q. There's a story out there about that match.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I know.  Anybody can create a story about any match.  That's my point.  There hasn't been too many matches where top players lost in last decade or so in early rounds.  You can pick any match that you like that the top player lost and just create a story out of it.
I think it's not supported by any kind of proof, any evidence, any facts.  It's just speculation.  So I don't think there is a story about it.
Q. It was in a newspaper called Tutto Sport in Italy.  The suggestion was you lost on purpose.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: It's not true.
Q. If that was the case, would that be something you would take action over?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I have nothing more to say, guys.  If you have any other questions on any other subject, I'm ready to talk about this.  I have nothing more to say.
THE MODERATOR: We're going to move on.
Q. Next round you're playing Seppi.  You played him a lot of times.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: He won against Federer last year in third round.  I think he deserves a lot of respect for, you know, the amounts of years that he spent in top 30.  Very solid.  He likes playing here.  He's not really overwhelmed by a big occasion.  Played many, many, many times on big stadiums against top players.
So I expect him, you know, to try his best to win.  It's going to be a tough one.  I need to earn my points.  I need to be ready for rallies.  It's going to be physical match.
But the way I've been playing, I have a lot of faith and confidence in my game.
Q. Do you remember the match you played with Seppi in Paris when you were behind?  What do you remember of that match, Roland Garros?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I was very close to losing that match.  Yeah, he was two sets up.  Managed to turn that around.  As I said, you know, he's a kind of a player with experience, really solid baseline game, you know, on a good day can really challenge any top player.
You know, he's always going to play flat and solid, always making you play an extra shot.  He plays very fast, very quick.  Here, the courts are played quicker than maybe some other hard court events.  I think he likes that.  He likes a good rhythm.
I'm going to try not to give him that.  I'm going to try to mix up the pace.
I know him very well.  We practiced a lot in off-season.  Hopefully I can play my best.
Q. Did you see any of Rafa's match yesterday?  Were you surprised that he got knocked out in the first round?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes, I've seen some of that match.  You know, I think when the draw came out, that was one of the toughest first-round opponents you can get for Rafa, playing against Verdasco.  That is a very, very good player, quality player.  A bit unpredictable.  If he's on, like he was yesterday, he's very tough to beat.  Big serve.  Very aggressive.  Huge forehand.
It was a close one.  A close one.  And Rafa fought, but Verdasco was just better in the end.
Q. Does it in any way sadden you or upset you that these questions are being asked about our sport?
THE MODERATOR: We have moved on.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, I mean, of course.  You don't want these kind of subjects or speculations going around.  I think that certain media is just trying to create a story out of it without any proofs.  So as long as it's like that, it's just a story.  That's all.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT