BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
November 8, 2015
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/A. Murray
  6‑2, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR: Questions in English. 

Q. First of all, congratulations. Big victory. You make incredible season, 2015. What is the main reason that you are so strong this year?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, there is not one. I think there is few reasons why I have managed to reach my peak at this stage of my career this year. I think in terms of physical and mental ability, I reached my peak experience‑wise, obviously have had a lot of matches that in the past that have led me to where I am at this stage. 
Of course I did go through certain periods that had more doubts and, you know, I wasn't as successful. It all served as a great lesson, as a way to improve and to get better. So this season, everything got together. 
I'm a married man, and I'm a father, as well. I think I have a nice balance and serenity in private life that reflects on the professional life, and vice versa. I have this belief that the holistic approach will definitely get the best out of yourself. 
So it works for me. Obviously everybody is different. I'm still determined to improve, to get better. Nobody can be perfect, but, you know, if you are going for the perfection, you might reach excellence. That's the kind of mind set I have. Try to work every single day with a purpose. 
I enjoy being on the tour and competing at a high level. And as long as there is this drive, I'm able to stand up every morning and, you know, knowing that I have ways of inspiring myself to keep playing on this level. 

Q. When we look at the head‑to‑head with Andy, especially this season, it seems you have figured him out. What was again the difference today?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I think I was very solid from the very first point, very similar to a performance I have had against him in Shanghai in terms of intensity and really, you know, strength in the shots and really protecting the baseline, trying to be the one that dictates the play. 
There was couple of games in the second set where he started turning things around, broke back and was leading 3‑2, Love‑30, just barely missed one forehand return. So things could have gone different way as they did maybe yesterday against Wawrinka at same stage. 
But I managed to stay tough, you know, save my service game on 3‑2, and I think that after that point I felt that, you know, I have a good chance to finish off the match in straight sets. It was, all in all, the best performance of the week, and it came at the right time.

Q. You physically still feeling as strong? You have been motioning about your shoulder a bit. 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, yeah, of course everybody has some soreness/tightness here and there. I'm no different. But I try to deal with it in the best possible way, of course physically. Overall I'm feeling good. I don't have any major issues that would concern me.

Q. Physically, going back to '2007 and '08, when you had a lot of those problems, the Roddick business at the US Open, some of us were thinking if you were a bit of a hypochondriac. Were you feeling, I wish they knew what I was working towards and one day I will achieve physical peak that you're at now?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I have been through stages in my life where I struggled a lot physically, especially in the beginning of the professional career. But as I said before, all those experiences in the past have helped me to get stronger, to learn from those experiences, to understand myself, my body. 
Ever since very early childhood days I have been surrounded with people that were very professional, very knowledgeable about the sport and lifestyles, sports lifestyle that is required for one athlete to reach the peak of his sport. 
I think I have inherited that, first of all, from my parents, that were involved in different sports in their lives. Several coaches, people, mentors that have shaped me into the person and player I am today. I was fortunate to gather some advices on the, you know, the way I should think about everything, you know, not just practice itself but recoveries and nutrition and, you know, psychological part, as well. 
I try to take nothing for granted. I try to work on it all the time, because I know that that is the only way I'm managing to stay successful, is to continue progressing. I'm not trying to keep the status quo, because for me then that's a regression, you know. 
I just try to progress, improve all the time, work on certain things in my life and my game, and, you know, hopefully get better in the process, which I feel I'm doing now. 

Q. At 6‑2, 1‑All, somebody would say, well, he's in pretty much in control, and then you missed that point and you go completely mad at yourself and your box. Can you talk about your mindset, being such a perfectionist and how this explains why you're here right now?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, at this level, playing against a player like Andy who can change things up very quickly, I didn't want to allow him that. That's why I was a bit frustrated at times. 
Beginning of the second set, just didn't want to, you know, lose that momentum that I had. Because Andy is the kind of player that understands what he needs to do. He will get on top of you if you allow him. 
That's the reason why at times I was just a little bit tense. But, you know, it's part of who I am. 

Q. London, week off, how do you see the last tournament after winning basically everything?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I will continue to do what I'm doing so far. There is no reason for me to decrease the pace of the training and preparations and performances I hope, as well. It's the last tournament of the year, very big tournament where I have done very well in the past. 
I'm hoping that I can repeat, you know, kind of performances and success I have had there in previous years. I like the conditions there. Crowd is great. Attendance is amazing. It's a great stage for the tennis tournament, O2 Arena that I think is the most used arena in the world in terms of events. It became kind of like a tennis cradle, a little bit, because of the history of the World Tour Finals event that has been organized now I think for sixth year in a row. 
Yeah, I look forward to it, especially because of the fact that I have had a season that I have had, you know, and the way that I'm feeling confidently. Hopefully I can finish off the season with another great win. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT