CHINA OPEN
October 10, 2015
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. During the past few years, we have seen lots of players showing tiredness at the end of the season. How did you make it to have more power while others don't?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I can't speak in the name of the others. In my case, I try to, you know, approach my career holistically and take care of my body, how much I train, how much I sleep, what kind of lifestyle I have. What I eat is also very important. Just trying to stay healthy in my mind and in my body. 
There is not a single thing that I would add and point out as a secret of success. It's just being able to generally take care of yourself and organize your schedule well so you can have that enduring success throughout the year. 

Q. Was it tougher today than the score is saying?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I served very well throughout the entire match, especially in the first set. 79% of the first serves in. But I didn't get too many free points on the serve. He was getting a lot of returns backs. He always made me play an extra shot. 
I thought I done exceptionally well on the return games, putting a lot of pressure on him from the first ball. The first shot was a really quality shot from my side tonight, and that's what I was looking for, to kind of impose the aggressivity from the first shot, not allowing him to get into the longer rallies and get into the play, so it worked very well. 

Q. Tomorrow is your first final with Nadal this year. He's insisting in his press conferences that he's with confidence. Do you expect a big battle with him like the old times?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, I always expect battle with him. I always prepare myself for the battle, no question about it. He's the player I played the most against in my life. There are no secrets. 
I know he's going to try his best tomorrow to win his title, and I will do, too. I think on a very high level both of us, we know how to play these big matches. I'm sure we're going to go out and play some good tennis for the crowd. The better player will win. 

Q. Earlier Rafa said you're in a different league from him right now. Do you see it that way?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No, I don't look at it that way. I am fighting for this trophy and any other trophy at the other tournaments as much as the other players. That's kind of my mindset. 
He's a 14‑time Grand Slam winner, one of the best players in the history of the game. I can't put myself in a different league than him. 

Q. Your record of 28‑0 here is obviously exceptional. In the course of your career, you've had lots of success. Where does that statistic or achievement sit in it for you?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I mean, this is right at the top, one of the best achievements I've had in my career. Considering that winning record in one tournament, it's the best record I have in any tournament, as a matter of fact, around the world. That gives me even more confidence before tomorrow's final. 
Every time I keep coming back, I have these positive, great memories from the success, the great performances I had on the center court, support, just overall feel is very positive. I try to, you know, use that in my favor. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT