BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
November 3, 2015
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/T. Bellucci 
  7‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q. Is this the slowest indoor court you have ever played on?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I just have to say I can't really recall how slow or fast the conditions were in some other tournaments I played on indoors because I haven't really played any other indoor tournaments except Paris or London in I think the last three or four years.   
I think it's pretty similar to the London surface. I think it's pretty good. Yes, it's maybe slightly slower, but slice stays lower, it gets the spin, bounces a bit higher.   
Obviously today's opponent, Bellucci, is someone who likes these particular conditions, likes to create spin, especially from forehand side and plays pretty well. It wasn't easy to make a lot of winners.   
He was reaching out and covering the court well. So it was a good test, you know, first indoor match for me.   
With new facilities, of course, and new color of the court, it took a little bit of time to really get used to it and adjust. It's quite different from any other outdoor tournament that you play on.   
As I said, the last match I have played indoors was last year in London. So that's why it's always tricky to start out well. I mean, I have had a few things that I could have done better tonight. But again, all in all, it was a very solid match. I played against a player who was in form and who is playing well and gave me a hard time, which is always good to have a test like this.   
   
 Q. It's been a long year. You're 5‑All first set. Is there not a moment where you think, Do I make the effort, or does the fire still burn as brightly even at this stage of the year, first round?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, these are kind of moments, particular moments, that you work for. If I put myself in a position to come to the tournament, and I prepare myself, then I really need to play. I have to be responsible towards myself and everybody else for my team and people that come to watch me. You know, it's as simple as that, you know.   
Obviously to start all over again in each tournament, really motivate yourself to get yourself out on the court, prepare, work on certain parts of your game, especially after long season that I have had, it's not easy. But again, I love tennis.   
You know, I love the life that I have. I love coming out to compete and to play on the court and push my own limits and see how well I can play and how far I can go.   
So that's kind of mindset that is present in my head.   
   
 Q. You know Gilles pretty well. What do you know about Benoit Paire that you could face tomorrow?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, we have played I think, if I'm not mistaken, only once in Cincinnati. I don't know if we played before. One of the best double‑handed backhands on tour, for sure. Very exciting player to watch. Very flashy. He likes to move quick. He likes fast rhythm on his service games. He's one of the very few players you can see on the tour to run around his forehand and hit backhands. It's funny to see that.   
But he has improved a lot with his forehand shots, and I think that put him in a position to play finals of Tokyo and win against some top players and play probably a season of his life. Credit to him for really being consistent, playing well. Deservedly he's in a position to compete at a high level.   
And Gilles, of course, very specific player. You know, doesn't make many mistakes, and he usually uses the pace of the opponent. I know both of them. Gilles a little bit more.   
But whoever I get to play, it's a French player playing at home. I know what to expect. It's not the first time, but I look forward to it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT