WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 22, 2015
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/A. Dolgopolov
  4‑6, 7‑6, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
   
 Q. You've come through moments in matches more often than not when it seems like the opponent has the edge, and yet you're able to hit shots for winners or win the points or completely turn the match on a dime. At those stages of a match, are you more relaxed? Are you more aggressive at that point in time?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Just more focused, I guess, and trying to kind of direct my thoughts only towards the next point and what I can influence.  
Obviously it's not easy to do as it is easy to say. Especially when you're break points down or when I was Love‑3 in the tiebreaker when it all looks like it's going to go his way. But I managed to dig deep and refused to give up. That's how I won. Basically last 16 match against Goffin, and that's how I won today.   
Very similar matches in terms of quality tennis from my side. I was not very happy the way I played. But, again, win is a win.  
I managed to do that because I was all the time there fighting.   
   
 Q. What does it mean to you to be back in the finals, and how much are you looking forward to the opportunity to potentially win your first title here?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes, I gave myself another chance to fight for the trophy. That was the goal and that was the wish coming here in Cincinnati.  
Obviously last couple of years it was always in the back of my mind, the potential history making, and obviously that motivates me even more. Having that in back of my mind helped me to go through matches like one today.   
Tomorrow, whoever I play against I need to be able to play better than I did today, no question about it. But I've been in these particular situations before, and I'm going to get myself ready.   
   
 Q. This will be the first time that you were one match away from completing all the Masters. Just wondering what that will feel like, what that accomplishment would mean to you? Also, I guess you've been close to the French Open final, to completing a career slam. A little bit similar thing. Any lessons you can draw on that?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, match is a match in the end of the day. Of course somewhere in back of your mind you do have that awareness of what's at stake, but generally it's a match like any other.  
Final against either Roger or Andy is I think the best and the biggest challenge and the best final I can get in this moment. I played Andy less than a week ago in the finals in Canada; now I'm going to have equally tough challenge to win tomorrow's title.  
As I said, I know what I need to do. Hopefully I'll be able to lift up a notch my game at least for few levels higher so I can be in a good position to win it.  
   
 Q. Why do you think Cincinnati has been the toughest of the nine for you?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I played four finals. I think it's not‑‑ has not been very bad tournament for me in general. Can't be negative about it. But I wasn't able to win the title in the past.   
Again, I put myself in a good position. Maybe it's the condition, time of the year. I don't want to really look into that and find an excuse why this has not been a tournament that I won in the past.  
I just want to believe that fifth is the lucky time and we keep on going.   
   
 Q. It's not the first time you're in the finals. Who would rather play, Andy or Roger?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: There is not much preference, my friend, there.   
   
 Q. Second set you were vocal in the direction of your box after losing points. Was that venting, letting off steam, or is that part of, like you said, getting focused for the next point?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, sometimes in the hype of the battle on the court you go through emotions up and down. The team is there to of course support you, but sometimes they have to tolerate some types of emotional situations that you experience on the court.  
It was just letting go of steam and frustration that was present. No question about it, Dolgopolov is a very unique player. Just very quick and you don't know which kind of rotation and what kind of ball is coming your way next.  
So it's very hard to keep the rhythm with him.  
   
 Q. Serena has also has a lot of comebacks this year. She was down 2‑0 in the third set yesterday and won. She felt like she did "a Serena" afterwards. Did you feel the same way with you? You just expect yourself to be able to come back from any deficit no matter the scoreboard says? Are you relatively secure in your abilities?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I guess I did a Serena too today. Doesn't sound right.   
THE STENOGRAPHER: I added an "a" for you. You did "a Serena."   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: (Laughing.) Okay. You understand the point.   
   
 Q. Looked like you were having some trouble with your abdomen and later your foot. How are you feeling now, and are those concerns heading into tomorrow?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: It's okay. It's nothing major. Minor problem that was solved in couple minutes, and I'm sure it's going to be fine tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT