COUPE ROGERS
August 14, 2015
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/E. Gulbis
  5‑7, 7‑6, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. How crazy was that match?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, I thought Janko and I did really well. It was a tight match. No, you're asking singles (laughter)?   
Yeah, of course, it was very exciting match. I actually enjoyed very much competing. Enjoyed the match for some reason. Not many times do I experience that feeling. Obviously you're in your zone and focused. Tonight I was really enjoying. The crowd was into it. They supported me, so I want to thank them really for that support. It got me out of trouble.   
Ernests was a better player for two sets. Unfortunately missed two match points. I wasn't very happy with my game. But, again, in the end of the day, you have to muscle it out sometimes and I had to put in the effort.   
   
 Q. Do you know what was wrong with your game?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No. If I did, I would fix it on the court (laughter).   
No, but this is sport. It happens. One day you play well, the other you don't. It's important to stay committed to every point, believe, fight. That's what gets you out of trouble.   
   
 Q. You said you liked the crowd, but you also gave some back in between the two sets there. No pressure there, even after two match points.   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: It was fun. It was fun. Ernests went to change his clothes. I thought, You know, why not entertain the crowd while he's out.   
   
 Q. You are playing Chardy tomorrow. He says he has nothing to lose because he always loses against you. What is your state of mind before facing him?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I do expect him to come out firing and trying to hit a lot of forehands. He served well today. He showed some mental strength and resiliency against John, who was in form and saved, what, five, six match points. That deserves a respect.   
He's in semifinals for a reason. He's a quality player, somebody that I know well. Grew up together, same generation. Played many junior events together. So we know each other's game.   
Look, it's semifinals. Now it's getting big. Hopefully I'll be able to play it better than I did today.   
   
 Q. How do you expect your level of energy with two matches today?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I'm good. I'm good. It's past midnight, so I want to go to bed. Definitely try to rest my body and try to get ready for tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT