ROLAND GARROS
June 7, 2015
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WAWRINKA/N. Djokovic
  4‑6, 6‑4, 6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English.   
   
 Q.   Can you describe how it feels, you know, standing there with the plate for the loser of the final and the audience starts cheering with you and never stops.   They shared their love with you knowing how you feel.   Can you describe it?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yes, I respect the appreciation they show me, and it was more or less the same situation like last year in closing ceremony.   This is something that definitely gives me even more motivation to come back and keep on trying.  
They are truly respectful fans, and I thank them very much, very much for these emotions I felt on the court.   Obviously was not easy to stand there as a runner‑up again, but I lost to a better player who played some courageous tennis and deserved to win.  
   
 Q.   I think everyone would agree with Stan when he said he played the game of his life.   Do you think you allowed him to settle a bit in the second set?   Were you a little bit tentative?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I think I was hanging in there in the second.   I was coming back from some break points down, saving myself, and playing even game with him.  
But he was the better player in the second so he deserved to win that one, and the third and the fourth.   
And be in the fourth set and 3‑Love up I had some changes to really switch the momentum to my side, but I couldn't do much more than I did.  
I mean, I probably could have played better in some moments, more aggressive.   It wasn't easy conditions.   Still he took his chances whenever they were presented.  
He just played some really good tactical tennis and also very aggressive shots in some break points, like in 4‑All in the fourth, the winner passing shot down the line.   
All I can do is to say, Well done.   He deserves it.  
   
 Q.   You broke your racquet at the end of the second set.   Were the emotions very tough to handle, the pressure?   Is it only a question of tennis today?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Of course.   I mean, you go through emotions when you're playing for the title.   Again, I was close, and I knew that he's extremely good player when you give him chance to maneuver and to dictate the play and to hit the ball.  
Was a bad game; 30‑Love up and just wasted some of the shots and allowed him to win the second.   Then he started feeling more confident.   He started going for his shots.   
Yeah, you know, you go through emotions, you get frustrated, you come back.   All in all, maybe that was the turning point.   After that I did try to come back.   I did try to fight up to the last point, to the last ball, but it wasn't that day.  
   
 Q.   You fought a lot.   Do you think you had the sort of negative attitude?   A little bit of follow‑up to the previous question, because, okay, you were just one set all.   I mean, you hadn't lost yet, but you were more nervous than you should normally be, I think.   Even if I understand.   And also, when you saved many break points, attacking, didn't you have the feeling on the net that you could have attacked a little more, or was impossible?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, it's not that easy to attack every point because his returns were pretty deep.   Second shot especially he plays high topspin, so you either attack first ball or you try to construct the point.   But, again, it's up and down.   
As I said, you go through emotions.   Of course I was more nervous than any other match.   It's finals of Roland Garros.   We both were aware of the importance of this match, and that's why you tend to have these particular situations.  
But, again, at least I'm proud of the fight that I put into this match.   I tried my best.   It wasn't to be.  
   
 Q.   How much physical or emotional energy do you think your previous two matches took out of you?   With Nadal there was so much talk about that almost being the final, you two playing in the quarters, but you had two more matches to go.   How tough was it to come back with...   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I don't want to come up with excuse, saying these two matches took a lot out of me and I lost today.   I don't think that's fair to Stan.   I don't think that's fair to sit here and whine about now what has happened.  
Certainly those two matches were very big in terms of physical demand and mental, emotional, as well.   But, still, I was today feeling pretty fresh as much as I could.   I mean, I was ready to go out and fight, and I have done so.   
Maybe in some important moments I didn't feel I had that explosivity in the legs, but, look, in the end of the day he was just a better player.   There was no reason to find some excuses why this happened.  
   
 Q.   How much did the prospect or the reward of what was at the end of the match for you potentially, how much did that prey on your mind during the match, and how do you think you can overcome wanting so much?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, you know, one thing is for sure.   You know, there are two players who want to win this trophy, not just me.  
So I think people tend to create more of a story where it's just me.   It feels like I'm the only player who wants to win this trophy and nobody wants to win it as much as I do; this is completely untrue.  
Every single player who is here, especially the top players, want to win this trophy as much as do.  
I think that's something that we have to keep in mind.   I'm not trying now to release the pressure for myself.   Pressure is part of what I do.   I got used to it.   I had many tough matches in my life.  
You know, today I went out on the court knowing I'm close, but across the net I had also player that wanted to win and he had a match to lose.   He was, you know, playing very well.   He deserved to win.   That's all can I say.  
I mean, of course the finals of a Grand Slam and the Grand Slam I never won gives a special importance to my approach to the match.   But I thought I started well.   As I got into the match, that was not a major issue in terms of dealing with the pressure.   
It's just that he was better.  
   
 Q.   You have been a part of a lot of great matches in your career, but how great do you feel like Stan played today?   For you to come out and play your best after I think you had played two back to back days, was that tough for you?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yeah, it was tough.   But, again, going back to the answer from before, I was prepared.   I was working hard in previous months to get myself in a position to be ready to eventually handle these particular situations that I had back to back days in the best possible way, and I have done so.  
I was physically okay, and I think he was as tired as I was‑‑ I mean as motivated as I was on the court.   He just played great.   And, again, I have to congratulate him and say he deserves it.   
   
 Q.   How would you describe Stan's backhand and how it was today?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, I mean, he has probably the best one‑handed backhand on the tour.   No question one of the best one‑handed backhands that I have seen in tennis.  
Very powerful and can create a lot of spin, a lot of rotation on the ball.   He can hit it flat down the line.   He can block the ball very well.   He has a short slice, long slice.   He has a lot of variety from that part of his baseline game.  
But his forehand, I think, has improved a lot.   His forehand wasn't the weapon, but now last two years it became a weapon.   
And of course his serve.   He's very complete player.   He's very strong and his serve is massive, and once he gets the percentage higher than 65%, 60%, 65%, he's very difficult to break, very difficult to play against on any surface.  
   
 Q.   Given you took out Rafa in the quarters and I think most people thought this was your time, does this loss hurt any more than the others?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, you know, it's a loss.   Of course it hurts, especially because it was in the finals.   I think I have played a great clay court season, a great Roland Garros.   
You know, came to the position to really win this trophy.   I was set up and was really in the match and trying to play tactically as I intended.  
But he just found the solutions on the court.   This is sport.   That's what happens on this level.   You have to accept the loss.   
   
 Q.   Each time you lost here in the final you bounced back immediately in Wimbledon.   Do you think it will be tougher this time, or is there something of a routine which can move on pretty quickly?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   No, it's going to be very easy.   I mean, it's going to Wimbledon and winning a trophy.   (Laughter.)   Of course it's going to be difficult.   
But, again, my mind is not in London at the moment, really.   I just got off the court and I need some rest.   That's all.   
   
 Q.   Can you just comment a bit about the end of the match?   Obviously he thought he had hit an ace and it was over, and then there was like five points.   How strange is that when that happens?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I had a look, I had a forehand for the break, and I missed it.   If you don't use the chance once, the second one doesn't come.   That's what happened.   
   
 Q.   I know you don't want to talk about Wimbledon, but will you use this defeat as motivation or will you try to forget about it as soon as possible?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, you were right.   I don't want to talk about Wimbledon now.   (Smiling.)   Sorry.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT