ROLAND GARROS
June 6, 2015
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/A. Murray
  6‑3, 6‑3, 5‑7, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English.  
   
 Q.   You beat a record coming into the press conference, first one.   What did you expect?   What were you thinking this morning when you were to start playing this match which had been interrupted?   Do you think you were a little bit lucky last night because of the interruption or not?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, I don't think I was lucky.   I think, you know, I was playing some great tennis yesterday.   He found his game late in the third.   I had many opportunities to finish the match in straight sets, but credit to Andy.   
He showed why he's one of the biggest competitors and fighters on the tour.   A bit different conditions, you know, with sun and then later in the evening got a bit slower.   He was using his variety in the game very well.  
Was really tough match, over four hours all together, yesterday and today.   No different from any other match that we played against each other.   It's always a thriller, always a marathon.   
I'm very glad that I managed to finish this match as a winner.   I was hoping I can do it before, but, again, I don't think I have done too much wrong, even today in the fourth.   He just came up with some great shots, great points.   
I want to congratulate him for a great tournament and great fight, and I wish him all the best.   For me, the reason why I came right away from the court is because I have a pretty important match tomorrow and I need to recover, answering your comment from before.  
   
 Q.   When you lost the fourth set today did you feel you needed to do anything different?   What went through your mind?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, I thought I started‑‑ you know, second part of the match today from 3‑All started very well.   I won two service games with no points lost, but he did the same.   
Then, you know, 5‑All he just played a great game.   Missed a couple of forehands, but he made some great, you know, defensive plays.   He deserved to win that set, no doubt about it.  
So I tried to keep my calm.   I knew that I'm going to have my chances.   I'm going to have my chances in the fifth.   I just need to keep on believing, keep on working, and I played a great set.  
   
 Q.   Do you think having to play today is going to impact tomorrow?   What will be the keys against Stan?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, it wasn't physically easy match, that's for sure, but I think I will be fine for the finals.   Whatever rest I have in me ‑‑whatever I have left in me I will put out on the court tomorrow, and hopefully it can be enough.  
   
 Q.   What was it you were having done to you when you went off last night?   Do you think it's fair to stop the match for eight minutes, which is pretty much how long it took?   What was being done?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, I went out from the court instantly as soon as I lost the third set.   I took my bag and asked for medical, and after that I was examined.   It took some time to get to the locker room to get on the table and do, you know, do the treatment.  
So I don't see why is that unfair?   
   
 Q.   How did it feel the direction of the crowd yesterday and today?   Was that disturbing some moments or...   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Look, they wanted to see Andy win a third and, you know, getting to the exciting match in the fourth and, you know, stay as long as they can.  
But, you know, I respect that.   It's not harming to me at all.   Even though it's frustrating at time when you need the crowd support and it's not on your side.  
That's the way it is.   Today I think was okay, and that's it.   
   
 Q.   Just to clarify from the earlier question, what was your treatment?   And in the eight games that you have beaten Andy since Wimbledon, was the toughest he's run you?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, well, the treatment was done on my leg.   
And regarding our encounters, this is one of the toughest ones we had, no doubt about that.   Five sets over four hours.   It's always physical.   It's always demanding from every aspect of the game because we have similar styles of play.   
We tend to run each other around and play cat and mouse game, and it's tiring.   It's exhausting to play him.  
But, you know, this is the kind of situations that you work for entire year, to get yourself in a position to play against one of the biggest rivals and to fight for major titles.   I'm just glad I overcome the change.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT