MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 17, 2015
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/M. Cilic
  6‑0, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.  
   
 Q.   The first set was kind of unusual, then he came back in the second.   Were you expecting him to somehow play better in the second set?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I was.   I mean, the first set went completely my way.   I knew he's going to start to change some things in his game so he can start to play a little bit better.   
But I made a crucial break in the beginning of the second, as well.   So the first eight games were really fantastic.   I tried to keep it up.   
I did drop in the concentration a little bit that game on 4‑3, had a breakpoint, Love‑30.   I managed to come back with some good serves.   
Just all in all it was probably the best match I've played so far in the tournament.   That's what I want, what I wish for in this moment.   
Of course, it encourages me before tomorrow's big challenge.   
   
 Q.   Before the tournament you talked about the quick turnaround between Miami and here.   Do you feel the momentum is helping you now, looking at Stan and Roger who didn't play too well after taking quite a long break?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   It might be.   Obviously the amount of matches that I won this year has helped boost my confidence level, helped me to feel good at this tournament and kind of continue on with a good performances.   
Physically obviously it's very demanding because I have played a lot of matches.   But as you said, momentum is on my side, and I try to use it as much as I can.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding facing Nadal or Ferrer tomorrow.)  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   It's probably the biggest clay court challenge you can have, playing against Nadal or Ferrer.   Both of these guys have so much success on this surface, especially Rafa, this tournament in particular.   
Yeah, I got to prepare myself mentally for that.   Other than the mental part, I think physically I'm ready.   I'm not exhausted.   I haven't spent too much time on the court.   Also I'm feeling the ball really well.   Hopefully I can perform well.   
I know that I'm going to need to keep the high level of performance throughout the entire match tomorrow, which is going to be required for myself.   
   
 Q.   They say Moto GP riders or Formula One riders, when they become a father, they drive slower than usual.   It wouldn't be your case.   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   You mean when they become parents?   
   
 Q.   They say they lose a second with each son they have.   It wouldn't be your case.   I'd like to know how you cope with your child and sleep and so on.   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, everybody I would say is approaching the parental duties and parental roles in a different way.   It's very individual.   I don't speak in the name of Moto GP or Formula One drivers, or anybody else, but myself.   
From my perspective, it has only brought positives in my life.   Of course, it is the most beautiful thing that I've experienced ever, this emotion that I discovered when my son was born.   It was quite amazing.   It also got me very close to my wife, as well.   So I feel that connection very much.   I try to enjoy every moment that I spend with them off the court.   
Also it has reflected very positively on my tennis career.   It doesn't necessarily mean it's going to stay that way, but I'm going to try to make sure it stays like this for as long as it can.   
   
 Q.   Considering all the amount of time you already spent on court this year, do you think, whatever the result you achieve here, the period between tomorrow or Sunday, within your next tournament, will be a crucial one regarding your objectives at the French Open?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yes, yes, exactly.   I'm looking forward actually to rest after Monaco.   I'm going to take some days off, probably up to a week of rest, because I need it.   I haven't had any in a while.   That's obviously going to help me to recharge my batteries for the period that is coming after that.   
You have Madrid, Rome, Roland Garros, then of course grass courts in a matter of a couple of months.   The schedule is very condensed.   
But I'm ready for the challenge.   Hopefully I'll be able to perform as well as I have done in the beginning of the season.   
First I need to commit to tomorrow's match and see how far I can go in this tournament.   
   
 Q.   Your groundstrokes are very powerful; you're serving very well.   How important is it to have this type of game here on this surface?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, clay requires a little bit of an adjustment in the movement especially.   You need to be aware that you're going to get probably always an extra ball back because it's a slower surface we have in the sport, and the ball bounces very high.   Certain things need to be tactically implemented in adjustment to this surface.   
But I like the way I'm playing right now.   I'm trying to impose all the variety in the game that I have.   But serve is a big part of every match.   Even though I'm aware of the fact that I can't serve as well as guys like John Isner or Raonic, you know, I'm still trying to use that stroke in my game efficiently and allow myself to have an easier second shot.   It's been working well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT