BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 16, 2015
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/A. Ramos‑Vinolas
  7‑5, 6‑3

Q.   Novak, how would you describe your performance this evening?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, not as good as first round, that's for sure.   But win is a win. 
I did struggle a lot with some unforced errors.   From back of the court I didn't feel so great. 
Towards the end of the match was better, so hopefully can be better in the next one as well.

Q.   Was it just a tiny issue, or it is something... 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, I just felt no balance, especially on the forehand.   I don't usually play with tape, but because of the problem I had last four days, I tried to protect it and play with the tape.
It didn't work well, so I messed up my balance honestly with that with the serve and forehand.
Well, when I removed the tape was no pain, which is encouraging definitely and positive thing, but I definitely need to work tomorrow on some balance and hopefully less mistakes in the next one.

Q.   Two double faults in the first game to get broken.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yeah.

Q.   Is that as bad a start as you've ever had in a match?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I had some bad starts before.   It's important to bounce back, you know, and just hold your compusure.   In these particular matches the opponent is not going to give you the match.   You to have earn it. 
He doesn't have any great weapons.   His forehand is pretty good.   Very solid from the back of court.   He runs and fights and makes you play an extra shot.
If make a lot of unforced errors you're in trouble, as I was.   I managed to sneak through it.

Q.   It will be a totally different match against Isner. 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Totally different, absolutely.   Not as many rallies probably and a lot of serves, returns.
Got to be ready to battle.   Few points can decide that match.   I played him before a few times on different surfaces.   Especially here, I think back in 2000, what was it, '12, and I lost in three sets.
Big serve.   I mean, I think his entire game depends on serve.   If he serves a high percentage of first serves, he can hit any angle and beat anybody on any surface.   He proved that many, many times.   He's a top 10 player, quality player. 
You know, if he has a good day with serving, it's going to be very, very difficult for me.

Q.   Is he just even tougher on this surface in these conditions? 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yeah.

Q.   He said he loves these conditions.   He feels like his serve, the ball bounces high in his sweet zone. 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Exactly.   Sometimes you think it's better him not to miss the first serve because the second serve bounces so high it's amazing.
He gets a lot of free points on that serve.   He can hit any angle because he's so tall and he has a very natural and smooth movement on this serve.   Good forehand. 
I watched a little bit of his two matches and he moves well.   You know, I think for his game, because he's so tall, it's good that the hard court is a bit slower so he can have a little bit of time to run around his backhand, hit some forehands, all over the court.
He played finals here.   This was probably his highlight of the career.   So I'm sure he's going to do his best to win against me. 
On the other hand, I'm going to try to get as many returns back in court.   I definitely need to play better than I did tonight.   Hopefully I can get a W.

Q.   What makes you a better man?   What do you work for? 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, I live to grow every single day professionally‑ privately as well.   Tennis has given me so much, and I'm very grateful for an opportunity to play the sport that I love.   I don't take any day for granted.   I believe each day is different, even though we tend to have a very kind of one‑sided I in terms of travel to the same tournaments.
But every day is an opportunity to grow in your character values and kind of nurture certain life values that you been brought up with.   This is kind of mindset that I have and the relationship with the close ones.   I try to make an impact and carry this responsibility of being successful and influential into making a difference in other people's lives through foundation work, through many everyday situations.
Hopefully I'm doing the right job.

Q.   When you go into playing Isner, do you have to have a mindset that there's going to a tiebreak in there? 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, you need to be ready that eventually you going to play at least a tiebreak in the match. 
Again, I try to take each point, each game individually and not think too much in advance. 
If you think about the tiebreak, then you're maybe too overconfident on your service games.   You can't allow that.   He's certainly not bad from back of the court. 
As I said, on this surface he returns well and runs around his backhand; he can hit some forehands very well.
He hasn't been missing much in first two matches I've seen.   I'm sure he's going to be motivated.   I got to be ready to battle each point, and, as I said, reactive, try get into the comfort zone on the return, make him play always an extra shot, if that's possible.   If not, going to work my way through and hopefully win that match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT