AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2015
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  N. DJOKOVIC/A. Bedene6-3, 6-2, 6-4An interview with:NOVAK DJOKOVICTHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. After a slow start today, it went better?  Was it only the first round or anything else?NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No, just glad to be back competing on the highest level in tennis.  Australian Open has been very dear to me.  My most successful Grand Slam.  I've been playing some of my best tennis throughout career on these courts.  Trying to soak up every joyful moment on the court.  Obviously the start was a bit slower performance, weaker performance, from my side.  He had a couple of breakpoints.  The match could have gone a different way in the first set.  Never played him.  Watched him only once.  He did surprise me.  I had a difficult time to read his serve.  The courts are playing a little bit faster than they were the last two years than they were in previous years.  So if you have a big serve, know how to use it, it's a big advantage on these courts.  He's a good player obviously.  He qualified.  Reached the finals in Chennai.  Qualified again here.  He felt confident.  He had nothing to lose.  On the other hand, I managed to stay tough, overcome some kind of challenges that I faced in the beginning of the match.  I played much more comfortably in the rest of the match.Q. How are you feeling?  The effects of the virus, are they all gone?NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes.  I mean, they're fading away.  It hasn't been an ideal couple of weeks in terms of health and preparation.  But, you know, I fighted my way through.  Now it's behind me.  I'm only looking forward.  I think I did well in terms of responding to the slow start today, feeling a little bit rusty on the court.  So hopefully the next one will be even better.Q. Do you like the fact that the courts are faster or do you prefer it the other way?NOVAK DJOKOVIC: It's tough to say.  You know, I usually like some kind of medium speed, not too fast, not too slow.  I'm getting used to this court as much as the other players.  I need to accept it the way it is.Q. Did you watch any of the Kyrgios or Kokkinakis match yesterday?NOVAK DJOKOVIC: It's great opening matches that they both had, five-setters.  The crowd.  Could not ask for anything better.  I was saying before that they both are very talented.  Obviously they have a lot of reasons why they want to perform their best in Australian Open, their home soil.  They have a huge support.  They have a huge motivation to play their best.  I congratulate them both.  It's not easy as an 18-year-old to overcome the challenges and pressure and expectations.  Especially Kyrgios, with the amount of attention he got this week, prior to the beginning of the Australian Open.  To be able to face that and win the way they both did, it shows the character.  So I wish them both well in the rest of the tournament.Q. What do you think of their flair on court?NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, that's what you need to have as a youngster, as a challenger, to all the players basically in the professional world coming up.  It seems like, you know, sometimes you're playing tennis without pressure or without really caring too much for what other people say or who is across the net.  That's what I felt like at that stage of my career.  But, you know, there comes a time obviously when people start talking about you more, as they start talking about them.  Obviously playing in Australia for them represents something more than playing anywhere else.  Nick had a lot of attention in the media.  Australia wants to have another big star, top player.  I thought Kokkinakis did very well psychologically to win yesterday's match, facing some match points and so forth.  They both have the potential, no doubt about that.  It's still long road ahead of them.  I'm sure they're aware of it.Q. Becoming a parent is a happy time for anybody.  Can you share with us your best daddy story you can come up with?NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I can say definitely that it's the best, most joyful thing that ever has happened to me and my wife.  We are so blessed and grateful to have a child.  He's a little angel.  They're not here with me, so I'm trying to stay in touch with them.  The technology nowadays helps me to stay connected and see them and watch them on a daily basis.  I can't wait to be with them.  Everything that you do as a father is very special.  Everything that you see, all the facial expressions, changes on a weekly basis, daily basis, as a matter of fact, is quite remarkable.  It's inexplicable for somebody that hasn't experienced it before.  That is what people were telling me before I became a father.  They said, When it happens, you will understand the feeling.  I do now.  I'm completely fulfilled in every aspect of my life.  That gives a whole 'nother meaning and purpose to my tennis as well.  I'm trying to draw that energy and motivation and love that I have for my family and for my boy into the tennis court as well.Q. How would you rate your eye-hand coordination when it comes to diaper changing?NOVAK DJOKOVIC: My wife says I'm pretty good.  I can't say more than that.Q. It was several years ago here you played Roger, you were a young guy.  You expressed an opinion you had a good chance to win.  What do you think about that younger Novak Djokovic?NOVAK DJOKOVIC: As I said, I understand young players like Kyrgios and Kokkinakis that we're talking about here, they have this I think necessary flair and energy that I think is directed in a positive way for them to get the crowd on their side, to get themselves rid of any kind of over-respect for the opponent and just be able to perform the best tennis, and then eventually get a big win, as they did, as Kokkinakis did against Gulbis, that is a top 15 player.  So it's a big part of the game and just an approach of a youngster, having that positive drive on the court.  This is an ideal place for them to draw that energy and to explore that flair on the court.Q. Serena got a lot of attention for ordering coffee on the court.  What can you order on the court?  Take-out Chinese?  Could you order a beer?NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I wasn't thinking about that, honestly about the Chinese and a beer and the coffee, because I'm not a fan of those three things.  But I guess, judging by what she did, it opens up a new chapter of rules I guess on the tennis court.  Maybe we need to explore more and see what you're able and what you're not able to order.  Maybe you can order some delivery service, as you mentioned.  I don't know.  Something that comes to your mind.  But it's understandable.  Some people can't live without coffee in the morning.  It keeps them going.  I guess that helped her in that match.  It wouldn't help me because I'm not a fan of coffee.Q. You would order something gluten free?NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Gluten free coffee maybe (smiling).Q. Nadal say he doesn't feel ready to win.  Do you think he's trying to reduce the pressure on him by saying so?NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I don't know what his intentions are, how he feels.  But he is definitely always one of the top favorites in every tournament that he plays.  There is no question about it.  We always talk prior to the big tournaments, during the first days of the Grand Slams, about who the potential players are for winning the trophy.  You know, more or less the same names have been going around for the last seven or eight years.  So I don't think there is any difference in terms of main favorites for this tournament even this year in the Australian Open.  There are a few other players that are able to challenge the best.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT