DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 28, 2020
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. DJOKOVIC/G. Monfils   
2-6, 7-6, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Why was he so tough to beat tonight?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Because he was getting everything back in the court. I mean, I made a lot of unforced errors, especially first set, beginning of the second. Just wasted a lot of mid-court short balls. Just wasn't working. I was kind of flat with my feet. Or when I was coming in, he was easily finding a way to make a passing shot.   
It was tough. It was just one of those matches where you have to hang in. I knew if I managed somehow to get back in the second set, hold my serve, I'll get chances. That's what happened.   
From this perspective it was better for me to actually win in tiebreak because it got him obviously more tired. I should have I guess won the set 5-4, 6-5. Many missed opportunities.   
I just wasn't taking my chances when I was having rally on those set points. But that kind of turned around from 3-6 in the tiebreak. From that moment onwards I felt I was going through the ball better.   
Obviously third set it's hard to measure it because obviously he was injured from third game of the third set and it wasn't even close to what he played in the first two hours.   
 Q.  What makes you so tough in matches when you're facing match points?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I don't want for it to sound so drastic. In a way, if I can make a comparison, it's like that kind of a feeling for an athlete, in our sport when he's facing a match point in a big match, it's like being on the edge of a cliff. You know there is no way back so you have to jump over and try to find a way to survive I guess and pray for the best and believe that you can make it, that there is something that is going to help you.   
That's one of the things that I feel at the moment. Okay, one point away, one shot away. There is no going back. This is it. I accept the situation and try to make the most out of it.   
I said it on the court. Some concrete things that I do at that moment is just stay present and not allowing my thoughts to kind of go around too much, focusing on breathing, just executing the next shot the right way, positioning myself well on the court.   
I don't know if I gave you a great analogy. That's kind of one of the feelings that you have. It's all or nothing. It's a matter of life or death at that point.   
The more I experience it, the more I'm comfortable with this particular situation. It's not like I'm inviting it. I don't want to be every match facing match points down.   
 Q.  You've played Stef four times. Not many people have an even record against you. How do you describe the challenge of facing Stef?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: He's one of the leaders of the new generation. He's now established top-5, top-10 player of the world. He is a hard worker, dedicated, very charismatic guy, nice guy. He has a lot of talent, a lot of passion for the sport, for the game.   
I think he's fantastic for our sport, not just the way he plays but his charisma, his character, the way he behaves. He's a really nice guy to have for tennis.   
It's anybody's game really. Finals, he's won, what, nine matches in a row now from last week in France winning title, now playing more or less every single day, which is quite impressive. It's not easy.   
He's physically fit. Obviously he works very well with his team. Yeah, I hope I can recover. I hope I can be at my best because I need to start better than I have tonight. Hopefully I can get a title.   
 Q.  How much are you keeping tabs on everyone? You know the statistics. Do you check frequently?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Of course. Look, it's homework. How can I say? When something is passion and work for you at the same time, you don't feel bothered to do certain things, to follow others.   
When I'm not playing, I watch tennis. Of course, it's not the only thing in my life. I have kids, other interests. But I do like to follow what's going on. Especially if I'm competing at the highest level, I like to know what my biggest rivals are doing, top-10 players, how they're playing, how they're feeling, how they're going through the season.   
I am updated, so to say. Maybe not as well as some other guys, but I keep track.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT