BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 10, 2014
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/M. Cilic
  6‑1, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   You had beaten Marin many times, but this was too much?   The veterans are marking the land? 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Veteran (smiling)?   Thank you.   I don't feel like a veteran, but I'm a father, okay, I should call myself veteran.   I hoped I would not reach this stage to call myself veteran this early in my career, but okay. 
It was a great performance.   I was hoping I could play this way.   I was preparing myself for this match.   I knew already one week ago that I'm going to play Marin at 8 p.m. on Monday. 
My team did a good scouting.   We thought about, you know, what's the game plan.   I stepped in and executed really well. 
His debut in the World Tour Finals has gotten best out of him in terms of his nerves.   You could see that he didn't feel so comfortable.   Tried to use my experience playing on this stage, the stadium, which is pretty different from any other. 

Q.   It was such a confident display by you.   You've not lost a match in Shanghai.   You've not lost here in London.   Do you remember when you lost last time?   What does this win do for your confidence and for the fact that you're on another winning run?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, it does help my confidence.   No doubt about that.   I don't know how long the run is going to go for.   Fortunately I had runs in my life, winning runs, I know how that feels.   The right mental approach for me is always to take one match at a time. 
This is a unique format.   Of course, winning in straight sets helps a lot for the rest of the tournament.   But I'm going to try to win every match I play, obviously.   But it does help for, you know, qualifications for the semifinals eventually and so forth. 
The day between the matches also helps in order to recover, get yourself ready for the next one.   Hope I can just continue playing this well. 

Q.   Stan won 6‑1, 6‑1.   You win 6‑1, 6‑1.   Are those surprising scorelines, in your opinion, for a tournament like this?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yes, I think.   I mean, realistically speaking, you know, maybe we both were favorites in our matches.   But to win 6‑1, 6‑1 both is maybe something that people didn't expect, and we, too. 
But, again, we both played some great tennis.   I'm sure that our match is going to be very interesting. 

Q.   You may correct me if I'm wrong, but I think you haven't lost indoors since you lost to Querrey in Paris Bercy.   What has changed with you?   Four years ago your best surface probably was hard court.   Now it seems to be indoors.   Is that correct?   Where do you feel more confident right now?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   It's hard to say.   I like outdoor hard court, as well.   I love playing on clay.   Grass not too bad (smiling). 
But indoor has been very successful last couple years.   I don't play too many indoor events.   As a matter of fact, only two, Paris and London.   You know, I give myself a lot of time to prepare for these events, for indoor tournaments.   I enjoy them.   I really do. 
They were asking me how do I feel returning indoors comparing to outdoors.   It is different and it's better for the returner.   It's better for the server, but I feel it's better for the returner because the ball more or less bounces the same every time, so you can anticipate better. 

Q.   Is it just the surface?   Something related to this specific period of the year?   What makes the difference compared to the others?   Sometimes you look a bit spent, and you reach a peak at this time of the year. 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, I cannot speak in the names of the other players, but I do feel mentally, as everybody else, challenged at this time of the year to finish off the season in a best possible way.   So I think considering how long the season is, everybody is mentally, physically, emotionally tired and exhausted. 
But this is where, in last couple of weeks of the year, you have to find your last drop of strength and motivation to finish off the year in style.   So that's basically where I find mentally motivation. 
Game‑wise, I explained why indoor surface and conditions are suitable to my style of the game. 

Q.   If Federer wins the Davis Cup, in your mind will that put him in a different light as far as his career?   Secondly, last year when you came in here, you very harshly criticized the governing body of tennis, the doping.   You didn't trust it.   You said they were unprofessional.   I'm just wondering a year later if you feel the same way or differently?   What do you think about Troicki almost making his way back to the top 100? 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   First question, winning Davis Cup is truly something special because it's a team competition, the only official team competition we have basically in the individual sport.   So I'm sure that that's going to be a very motivating fact prior to this Final for Roger.   It's probably the only thing he hasn't won in his career. 
Going back and looking what he has achieved, if Davis Cup title is going to impact it in a major way, I don't think so.   I mean, of course it's going to mean a lot to him.   We all know that it's very difficult to win Davis Cup because you don't win it by yourself.   It's a team effort.   So I'm sure that he's going to be having plenty of motivation to do so.   But I don't think in a major way it can influence his career. 
The second question, I still feel the same regarding the situation with Viktor.   I was referring only to his case.   I wouldn't talk more about it because I said what I needed to say. 
I'm glad he's back in tennis.   I think he's made one of the best comebacks for sure.   He's on the verge of the top 100.   I don't know if he's got the top 100.   He's around.   He's going to be in the main draw of the Australian Open, which is incredible, considering the fact he started the end of July.   Four, five months, he managed to get to where he is from scratch. 
I'm very glad for him.   He's a very dear friend of mine. 

Q.   I'd like to ask about one of your next opponents, Tomas Berdych.   What is your relationship?   How do you see him as a player and as a person?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   We get along very well.   We practice with each other.   I know Tomas for long time.   He's one of the most consistent players on the tour.   Very powerful player.   Great serve.   Great forehand.   Somebody that has been around for many years.   Established top‑10 player, as well. 
The relationship that we have is very fair, very respectful to one another. 

Q.   You were spotted at the doubles last night.   I'm curious what you think about Zimonjic's return?   What does it mean to you to have a player like Nenad on tour when you were just getting started?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Nenad is a dear friend of mine and somebody that has helped me when I was developing into a professional player.   Actually, when I was 13, 14, I was practicing with the same coach at that point, Bogdan Obradovic, he was the Davis Cup captain, he was his coach.   At that time I was also practicing in Belgrade whenever I was there with Bogdan, and Nenad would hit with me a few times already. 
Already at that time he was at that time one of the top doubles players.   So for me that was an experience, a learning experience, and obviously something I respected a lot. 
We have a relationship for a long time.   He did always help with his advices.   He was always there to play, to talk, whatever is necessary.   I never forget that. 

Q.   The poppies that everybody wears here, what you think about what it means?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   The poppies, I understand what it is.   But what is the question? 

Q.   Do you recall sort of first noticing people were doing it here and asking about it?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   A few years ago I started noticing it, yes.   I say it's obviously very important for the nation to remember people who gave their life for this country.   I respect that.   I respect that a lot.   I think it's a very nice part of the culture that you nurture. 

Q.   Which is your most memorable memory with Grigor Dimitrov this year?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I know what it was last year.   When we took off our shirts at the exhibition event in Boodles before Wimbledon.   We had a lot of fun there. 
He's a great guy.   A very good player that has the potential definitely to be a Grand Slam winner one day.   He's already working his way through.   Played semifinals of Wimbledon.   I think that's our most memorable, let's say, day of this year, of this season, where we played each other over three hours match, pushed each other to the limit. 
He's got a lot of talent.   He's good‑looking.   He speaks good English.   He has Maria Sharapova for a girlfriend.   What more can you ask for (laughter)?   And he's Bulgarian. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT