BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 12, 2014
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/S. Wawrinka
  6‑3, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Did you think it could go so easily after you lost the first two games?   Also, aren't you surprised that eight matches lasted only 8 hours and 26 minutes, which means each match lasts 63.2 minutes on average?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   And the games (smiling)?   
Well, I definitely didn't expect but hoped that I can, again, play this way and the match result can go this way for me.   
Obviously Stan wasn't feeling his best today, made a lot of unforced errors, low percentage of first serves in.   
On my side, I just played very solid from all over the court.   I think I covered the court very well, got a lot of balls back, mixed up the pace, got him off the comfort zone.   
That's something that was part of my game plan.   After I lost the first two games, you know, obviously I didn't start so great.   I thought he played very well the first two games.   But, again, I wasn't frustrated.   I kept my calm.   
After that, was a really amazing performance.   
   
 Q.   You've played Roger, who you might play here this weekend, 36 times.   You've played Rafa 42 times.   How would you rate those two rivalries in terms of which one you've enjoyed more, appreciated more in your career, and which one has been more exciting for fans?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, both of these rivalries that I have with Roger and Rafa are special in their own way.   They're two different players that bring a lot to the game on and off the court.   
First of all, their rivalry was amazing, and still is.   They've been so dominant in men's tennis for so many years.   Murray and myself, we got into that mix.   
I had great experience in Australian Open 2008, won my first Grand Slam.   After that, I lost most of my matches I played against them in the major events.   So I went through my doubts.   
But those two guys, and the matches I played against them, made me a stronger player.   Made me realize what I need to do to improve, be in the position one day to be No.1 and to win Grand Slams.   
So I do feel those rivalries have contributed to my success a lot.   
   
 Q.   Do you have any explanation for the one‑sidedness of the matches?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I don't.   I don't.   You know, obviously I can't speak in the name of the other players, so I don't know how they feel on the court.   
I know that I've been playing very well this week and hope that I can continue this way.   
Now, of course, since it's the tournament of the best eight players in the world, people, fans, the crowd expect to see a little bit more excitement and longer matches.   So far we didn't have any three‑setters.   
I think that's going to change as the tournament progresses.   
   
 Q.   With how well you've played in these first two matches, is it all wanting to hope that you can somehow sustain this level for the rest of your career, just this moment, playing like you are now?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, there are some tournaments around the world that I play, like this one or Beijing, that I wish all the tournaments are played in one place, the way you feel on those courts.   
I think every player has his own preferred conditions where he loves to play, country, surface, so forth.   But tennis is a unique sport.   It's very demanding because it has a variety of different surfaces, conditions that affect the ball's bounce, humidity, so forth.   All these different effects, factors that can influence the play.   
So I played very, very well last couple of years in certain tournaments, including this one.   That doesn't necessarily mean that I will play this way in some others.   But I will try, no question about it.   
Consistency is always one of my top priorities because, you know, I know with consistency and good health I can give myself a chance to be No.1 of the world.   
   
 Q.   I'm sure life feels very different for you since becoming a father, but do you feel different on court?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   In terms of my approach to the practices and matches, not much has changed, to be honest.   I do feel mentally even stronger since we became parents.   
You know, it's a huge experience, a huge event in our lives, a blessing.   Hopefully that new energy and inspiration can stay for a longer time with me on the court.   
   
 Q.   There's a lot of qualification scenarios on Friday.   How much do you get involved with that?   Do you let someone tell you what you have to do on Friday or do you sit there with your calculator trying to work it out?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Nobody needs to tell me I need to win.   So I think I know that myself already.   That's what I try to do.   That's why I'm here.   I try to win every match I play on.   That's the kind of approach I will have on Friday.   
   
 Q.   I've been fascinated by the wide range of opinions regarding the court conditions from pundits on the TV, to the players.   What is your assessment on the court conditions, speed, ball speed?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, I think the conditions, comparing to the other years in this same arena, have not changed.   They're more or less the same.   They're different, obviously, from playing outdoors.   
But if I can assess the conditions?   Well, the ball bounce, on the practice courts and on the center court, is different.   I think on center court we have I think a medium height of the bounce of the ball, just enough.   I think it's a medium speed, as well, the surface itself, which is suitable to my style of the game.   That's why I enjoy it, enjoy playing on it.   
   
 Q.   As you know, Janko Tipsarevic has been back on court practicing with some of your other friends the last week or so.   What is it going to mean for you personally, but also for Serbia's Davis Cup team, to have him and Viktor back regularly on tour next year?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, first of all, I'm glad.   I've been in touch with Janko.   I know he's been starting to practice tennis, as well.   I don't know who had the worst time, Viktor or Janko in the last year or more.   I mean, Viktor with the suspension of one year or Janko with injury that took him off the tour now already more than a year.   It's a really tough time for both of them.   
I'm glad that Viktor managed to come back to almost top 100, he's going to play in Australian Open main draw, which was his goal when he game back in July.   
And Janko, as he says, after 12, 13 months of torture, in a way, really mentally, emotionally, didn't know which opinion of the doctor is valid and which is not, who is right, who is wrong.   So after everything, few surgeries, he's now finally feeling better and better, and recovery is going well.   
So hopefully we can see him in the first week of the season.   That's what I wish.   
   
 Q.   Would you like to see this tournament stay in London past 2015?   If so, why?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, I expressed my opinion about this.   I think this tournament here in London has had an immense success in this, what, six years.   Next year is the seventh year.   It was five years with extension of two, now possibility of more.   
I mean, definitely London has proven to be one of the best cities for tennis.   People have a culture of tennis here because of Wimbledon and so forth.   
But I believe that this World Tour Finals is a kind of tournament that should be, I would say, exposed to more cities around the world.   We should allow more cities to have the organization of this event, the best eight players in the world.   In this way we can promote the tennis in certain areas and so forth.   
Now I understand the different points of view, different perspectives, people have different opinions.   I understand they keep it here because of the success.   But, again, I heard many cities who want to not just pay big money to have it, but also have a big interest.   
I'm sure that many cities around Europe, South America, Asia, would have a lot of success in having this event.   
Me, personally, again with nothing against London and so forth, I enjoy this tournament very much, and as I say it's a success, but it should be moved more often.   
   
 Q.   I realize it's probably a bit early for this question, but would you ever like for your son to become a tennis player?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   You're from Bulgaria, right?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I remember your question a few days ago.   I should be careful now what I say, right (smiling)?   
Would I like my son to be a tennis player?   Well, I will definitely not insist that my son is a tennis player.   I will let my son decide whatever he wants to do and I'll support him as a parent.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT