CHINA OPEN
October 1, 2014
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/V. Pospisil
      6‑3, 7‑5

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   You dominated serve all match, only giving up three points on serve in the first set.   In the second set when you were broken, what changed at that moment?
    NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, just only one game that I dropped my serve the entire match.   I thought that I didn't do anything wrong.   It's just him.   He played some great points and some great shots. 
    I think he served extremely well, especially in the second set.   A lot of aces.   A lot of variety on his serve.   But a very high percentage of first serves in.   Obviously that put a lot of pressure on my service games and gave him some free points that also built up his confidence. 
    That's why the second set was very close.   He had a set point on his serve.   But, you know, I fight my way through.   I believed I could recover from break down, and I did. 
    I think it was, especially in the second set, a very high‑quality tennis match. 

Q.   You talked a couple days ago about how you're fighting for the No.1 ranking at the end of the season.   Talk more about what it would mean to you to finish No.1 for the third year in the last four years.   How important is that to you?
    NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, I think I speak in the name of all not just tennis players but athletes in the world.   You work all your life and you dream about becoming the No.1 of the world, the best in what you do.   It's definitely always the highest priority out there with winning Grand Slams. 
    That gives me plenty of motivation.   It would mean, of course, a lot to me.   That's why I'm out here in Beijing and Shanghai, you know, competing and trying to get that year‑end No.1. 

Q.   Do you think it's lucky to play a match in the center court when other players' matches are suspended because of the rain? 
    NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   It is very lucky.   I'm a lucky guy.   What can I say? 

Q.   In the second set your opponent had a set point.   Later you had a breakpoint and made it.   Do you think this is the difference between the top players and others?
    NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, maybe the experience of playing the bigger matches, the experience of being so many times in this particular situations help me to prevail in the second set. 
    On the other hand Vasek is a powerful server, someone who has shown today why he has a lot of potential, a lot of quality in his game.   He can be a top‑10 player in the future.   He had the set point on his serve and I managed to get the second‑serve look and won that point. 
    If he won that set, again, the match could have gone either way.   Obviously you can say that experience plays a certain role in these particular moments.   When the moments are very important, things get tough and tight.   But, again, it's such a competitive level of tennis today that we are playing, you know, that very few points can decide a winner. 

Q.   You're 21‑0 all time at the China Open.   Is there any added pressure having a winning streak like that here?
    NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I actually got the same question a few days ago.   I just observe that from a positive context, positive side.   It actually encourages me to keep on going and extend that streak as long as possible. 
    I feel very welcomed from Chinese people.   I felt great support today.   It was a pretty good crowd on the court.   They enjoyed the quality of tennis that both players performed. 
    It's always a very positive feeling for me to be on the court in the China Open. 

Q.   As for the next round, what are your expectations?   Do you see it as a tough game?
    NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   For the next round's opponent, I will have to wait and see who it is tomorrow.   It's Andujar or Dimitrov.   Different styles of play from both of them.   Obviously Dimitrov is the favorite to go through, meeting in quarterfinals on Friday.   I will see whoever wins tomorrow.   My coach and team will analyze my opponents and get myself ready for that round. 
    Of course, whoever I play against, I'm going to have the same kind of optimistic mindset and approach to the match. 
    Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT