SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 11, 2014
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/N. Djokovic
  6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   You met Roger on a very good night.   Your thoughts on the match.   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Just outplayed me.   Played an incredible match.   Tactically hitting the ball so well.   Didn't give me enough opportunities for me to come back.   He used his.   That's all.   Two breaks were enough.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel it from the first game, first ball, that he was just striking it well today?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   He played from first to last point a very, very good match.   I think I did not play too bad.   It's just that he played everything he wanted to play.   
I mean, he played perfect match.   I mean, I think he's going to tell you how he felt, but that's how I felt he played.   He played an amazing match.   
   
 Q.   It looked like you were getting obviously frustrated through the match.   Is that because you felt you couldn't execute or because he was too good and there was nothing you could do?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Obviously a little bit of both.   Whenever I had a chance, an opening, I had one breakpoint in the first I think, a couple of tight service games in the second for him.   You know, every time I had a chance he just stepped in and made a winner.   
   
 Q.   When Roger plays like that, do you feel he's playing as well as he has ever played?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, this tonight is definitely one of the best matches he has played against me, that's for sure.   
   
 Q.   All streaks have to end at some point.   28 matches you won in a row in China.   Your reflections on that?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Great, great run.   I enjoyed it very much.   But the story doesn't end here.   I'll come back next year.   I'll look forward to win some more matches in China.   
   
 Q.   What is your impression of him as a 33‑year‑old player?   Has he done something that surpasses your imagination?   What do you talk about Federer in the locker room?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I don't understand the question.   
   
 Q.   Did his performance surpass your imagination for a man aged 33?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I think he's playing as good as ever.   I think age does not really matter in his case.   
   
 Q.   Did you see the fans in the stands and what they did for you?   Do you have something to tell to them?   And what is your plan for the next two weeks?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   The fans were fantastic, both his fans, my fans.   The stadium was packed.   The atmosphere was amazing.   These kind of matches you enjoy as a player to play.   Obviously I want to thank everybody for coming out, especially my fans for being so supportive of me.   
My plan is now to go back home and hopefully become father.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT