WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 14, 2014
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. ROBREDO/N. Djokovic
  7‑6, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you sort of explain what happened out there.   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Just lost the match.   That's all.   It was bad.  
   
 Q.   Do you understand why?   What went wrong?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Just many, many, many things are not clicking these two weeks on hard courts.   It's unfortunate, but it's more than obvious I'm not playing even close to what I'm supposed to play.   
I have to keep on working and trying to get better for US Open.  
   
 Q.   Is it just the surface that's the problem, or...   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   No, I just don't feel comfortable.   That's it.  
   
 Q.   What's the process now to get ready for US Open for you?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Practice.   Practice, that's it.   Get as much as hours on the court, analyze the game, analyze what I did wrong, and just trying to get better for NewYork.  
   
 Q.   Are there certain areas of your game you want to focus on specifically?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Just in general, you know, I'm not feeling very comfortable on the court.   I hope that comes with practice and with time, so in NewYork hopefully it's going to be better.  
   
 Q.   Even though you lost, you still saved a couple of match points, a few match points.   I just wanted to know, in the first match point you played, or the second one, you hit a fault, you challenged, it was the wrong way, and then you won the point.   You're well known for saving these match points.   What goes through your mind at that moment?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   At this particular moment you can't compare it to any other.   Whether you're match point up or down it makes a big difference.   But you try to focus on each shot individually and not really think about what might happen or, you know, in what particular situation you are.   
Of course, crowd is there and so they remind you you're match point down.   Of course it's not easy, but this is sport.   This is pressure.   It's part of what we do, and kind of used to it.  
   
 Q.   Could you talk about what Tommy did exceptionally well today?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I thought his forehand was really good.   Served very efficiently, especially second serve.   He was playing great, no question about it.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel you have enough match play behind you going into the Open?   Would you have wished for a little more?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, I wish for more.   It's obvious.   It's disappointing that I'm finishing Cincinnati again with a tough loss, but it's sport.   I didn't play well in Toronto; didn't play well here.  
Hopefully it's gonna be different in NewYork.  
   
 Q.   So is the idea just to go to NewYork and practice and work on some things and stuff?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yes, that's the idea.  
   
 Q.   Right now is it just an issue of timing?   Is it something physical?   What is kind of keeping you from your best level right now?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   No, there are no real issues.   It's just that feeling the ball well on the court.   That's it.  
You know, players that I have lost against both two weeks, they were playing just better than me.   I have to deal with that.   That's it.   
   
 Q.   Between Wimbledon and Canada obviously you got married, but how much practice time did you have?   Did you have enough?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   More than usual, to be honest.   I practiced a lot.   I had, you know, more than enough practice.   It's just that's sport.   You can't win them all.  
   
 Q.   Just want to know if there's anything else that you're going to put into your training for the US Open?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Two racquets.   I'm going to play with two racquets.   (Laughter.)  
No, it's going to be more or less the same.   I'm going to try to analyze the game with what I have done wrong in this couple of weeks, and that's why, you know, a team of people around me is there, to make sure I'm going in the right direction.   
Obviously we want to peak in NewYork.   But again, it's disappointing that I had to lose here second match, and Toronto, as well.   Expected more from myself, but, you know, I have to keep on going.   Grand Slam is coming up, and that's where I want to do well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT