ROLAND GARROS
May 30, 2014
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/M. Cilic 
      6‑3, 6‑2, 6‑7, 6‑4

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   After the first two sets, it became a bit more complicated, the conditions and March rain playing very good.   How did you feel out there?
    NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I felt great.   First two sets and beginning of the third I had some chances to break him and kind of get the job done in straight sets, but he started playing a little bit better. 
    I didn't use this opportunity that were presented, and, you know, gave him a chance to come back to the match.   He played great, the end of the third, especially in the tiebreak. 
    In the fourth, you know, 3‑Love, Love‑40, 4‑1, Love‑40, didn't use that.   And again, I complicated my own life there in the fourth.   But generally it was a difficult match from different aspects.
    Physically I had to work very hard, because he was very aggressive, and I could expect that.   I came into the match knowing that he's gonna take his chances.
    You know, some shots, I mean, he was hitting really well.   Second serve he was attacking and, you know, returning deep in the court and kind of pulling me back from the baseline, and then, you know, trying to dominate the rallies.
    So it wasn't easy, because, you know, once you start being passive, you know, you lose kind of the confidence to step in.   That's ‑‑that's what happened maybe in the end of the third and, you know, a little bit of the fourth. 
    In important moments I held my nerves and, you know, I'm very happy that I went through.

Q.   Being on Lenglen maybe did it have any influence, the court, not being used to it or sliding a bit?
    NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   It's different from the center court.   Two things:   First, it's quicker, so it's suitable more for servers like Marin and the players who play very aggressively; and it was kind of slippery a little bit. 
    But the quality of the court just looking at this year is a little bit better from the center.
    You know, I expected that I'm going to play on Suzanne Lenglen, you know, there is nothing ‑‑there is no excuses.   It was a great match to be part of, and I enjoyed it and hope the crowd did, too.

Q.   Dominic Thiem said you are the only player who can play fit in the court against Rafael Nadal.   Do you think it's true?   Do you have any thoughts about that?
    NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I'm flattered to hear that.   Obviously it's nice to hear that.   But I don't think I'm the only one.
    There are players who are definitely able to compete with Rafa on this surface, especially this year.   He has lost to Almagro, to Ferrer, two big tournaments.
    Definitely this is the tournament that he likes the most.   I'm talking about Rafa.   He lost once in his life on this tournament, on this court.
    So for sure, he's the most dominant player around in Roland Garros in history.
    We all know that, and we all know how good he is.   But in the end of the day, you don't go out with a white flag on the court.   You know, you try to win whoever is across the net.

Q.   In the past days you said, you mentioned the fact that Croatia and Serbia all got together to help the population with the crowd because of the flood and so on.   I'd like to know if, apart from you, also other tennis players even like Marin Cilic or other Croatian, if you have talked to them and tried to do something together?   Because you spoke about this solidarity around the world. 
    NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, we did.   I don't know how much you followed.   But before the start of the tournament, we did event together on the center court.   Yeah.

Q.   Then afterwards you did ‑‑okay.   That's it. 
    NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Okay. 

Q.   Can you say some words about your work with Boris Becker here in Roland Garros.   How is he helping you?   What are you guys working on and what does his presence mean for you?
    NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, his presence means a lot for me and, of course, for the sport in general for such a legend and the player that has made a mark in the tennis history to be part of the sport again officially as a coach is really ‑‑I think it brings a lot of positives to tennis.
    I started feeling the benefits of our relationship and cooperation.   And the start of the year it was obviously ‑‑it took a little bit of time for us to get to know each other, and now I'm glad that it's all working well. 
    In Rome he was there, together with Marjan Vajda, he is here in Paris.   So both of them they have their own contribution, their impact on my game.   I'm not going to discover exactly what, but generally it's working, and I'm glad that it all goes in the right direction.

Q.   If I could, I'd like to ask you:   What do you consider the biggest win of your career?   What loss was sort of the toughest, most brutal to take?
    NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   The biggest one is Wimbledon in 2011, I won against Nadal and won the title and became No. 1.   That was the probably the biggest day of my career.
    And also the Davis Cup in 2010.   That's also very special, special title in my career.
    I had tough losses, a lot of tough losses.   It's all sport.   Probably ‑‑I can't pick one, but there were a few in Grand Slam finals that were quite... 

Q.   Can you just mention what those slam losses were?
    NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Losing in the finals of a Grand Slam, definitely not easy, but again, it's finals of a Grand Slam.   So, I mean, it's already a huge success.
    But I have had last two years finals in US Open that I thought I should have won.   But again, I always played against the top players, either Rafa or Andy or Roger.   And, you know, our rivalries have had a lot of tough, a lot of great matches on the top level fighting for Grand Slam titles.   Some of these I won; some of these I lost.
    It's all part of the experience, part of the growing up.

Q.   Just how many languages do you speak?   What's the next one you're working on?   How has that helped you in life?   How many languages is your book in?
    NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   How many languages, you said... 

Q.   How many languages is your book translated into?
    NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   My book? 

Q.   Yeah. 
    NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I don't know the exact number, to be honest, but I think around 20.   I don't speak that much, that many languages.
    I like languages.   I think it's always nice, as a foreigner, coming into a country, some other country that you're not coming from and learning at least the basics from their languages, is a nice gesture, in a way.   It's a respect to that culture.
    So how many I speak?   Enough to communicate, around five, six languages.   Yeah. 

Q.   More than Americans?
    NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I'm not going to comment there (laughter).

Q.   Have you heard about Gulbis' sexist comments today?   He said he hopes his two sisters won't become professional tennis players because women need to think about having kids and they need to enjoy life.   And he said also having kids ‑‑he thinks they can't have kids until they are in their late 20s, which is tough.   What is your opinion? 
    NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I don't know what to say, really.   Everybody is entitled on their own opinion.   I respect his opinion, and I respect everybody's opinion, but I can't say more than that, really.
    I respect everybody individually and their opinions and their rights and freedom to say what they want.

Q.   What is yours?
    NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I can't say more than that.   I'm sorry.   That's all.

Q.   This is a question from fans.   Your brother, who is trying to be a successful tennis player, is ‑‑is that the case?   Marko?
    NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yes.

Q.   What will happen the day you play him in a tournament and he will beat you?
    NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I hope this day comes, to be honest.   I really do. 
    What I'm going to do?   I'm going to hug him, kiss him, and say, Yes, you've done it.   I would love this day to come. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT