BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2014
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/M. Cilic
  1‑6, 6‑2, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What was your reaction in the middle of that first set?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I mean, look, I held my grudge.   I was composed.   I was mentally calm regardless of the scoreline, and, you know, I just accepted the fact that he came out from the blocks better than I did and he was very aggressive and he was not missing at all. 
He was serving incredibly fast and accurate and couldn't do much really.   I was forced to back up in the court.   But as I said, I believed that I can come back.   The second set was the whole new story. 
I just reset myself.   I told myself that it's the start of the match.   I forgot about the first set, and, you know, second and third went really well.

Q.   You're the only player in the top 6 who is left in this tournament, which is pretty unusual at a Masters at the quarterfinal stage in this era where the top guys have been so reliable.   Do you sense a change of the mood of players?   Some players have cited Stan winning Australia as giving them more belief that it is possible. 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yeah, it is possible.   It was always possible.   It happens.   You have the new generation, new wave of tennis players coming, especially the youngsters, Raonic, Dimitrov Gulbis and those up and coming, rising tennis stars. 
You have to accept the fact that everybody is improving.   They all want to get better.   They all want to win against you as a top player.   That's another reason for you to train hard and try to get yourself better and compete with these guys, you know. 
It's double hard I think in think moment for any top player to stay up there.   I'm aware of what's going on.   On a positive note, it's good for the sport in a way, you know, to have the different faces winning major tournaments.

Q.   Seems like you have pulled out some matches here.   How would you characterize your overall level in this tournament so far?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, look, I mean, I feel better and better as the tournament progresses.   Okay, in the first set I haven't started well, but, look, you know, I couldn't do much.   He was firing from every corner.
Second and third is kind of game and intensity on the court I want to have, and I will try to keep that up.

Q.   Slightly different circumstances to the previous round when you admitted having a bit of a lapse in concentration. 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yes.

Q.   But were you able to draw on the comeback ability from that match for tonight?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yes, in a way.   But of course every day is a new day.   I didn't think about what happened before.   It's already past for me.   I try to take from each match the best that I can, you know, to learn, you know, what I have done well, what I have done wrong, and kind of progress with that kind of mindset.

Q.   What about the next round?   What are your thoughts there?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   You know, I'm going to think, have a day off, and it's going to help just because it's 12:30 and it's kind of a late finish.   Reminds me of last year's late finish against Querrey also in fourth round.
As I said, it's a day off.   I'm going to use it as best as I can to recover and get ready for next challenge.   It's Benneteau.   He's not seeded, but he has won against Tsonga, against some great players. 
So I'm going to win.   I'm going to try to win (smiling).   I'm going to go out there and try to win.   Let me rephrase that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT