AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 30, 2020
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. DJOKOVIC/R. Federer   
7-6, 6-4, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You're used to having close battles with him. How difficult for you was it going into the match maybe not quite knowing what shape he was going to be in?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I was trying to focus on myself, been told by the team as well to kind of prioritize my own things rather than really thinking about how he's feeling or how he's going to move, how he's going to play.   
But it's easier said than done. When I was on the court at the beginning, I was really paying too much attention on his movement, what he was really doing. I wasn't in the right balance. I wasn't hitting the ball. I wasn't executing the shots the way I wanted it.   
It resulted with a 4-1 deficit and Love-40. I was just fortunate to serve well at those moments. I think throughout the entire match, that was probably the best shot I had in the game. It got me out of the trouble several times.   
After clinching the first set, which was crucial, I think I relaxed more and kind of started swinging through the ball better. I felt more in control of the match in the second and third set.   
It's never easy to play Roger. I mean, obviously he was hurting. You could see it in his movement. Respect to him for trying his best. After losing the first set, he got a medical. He came back and played all the way through. That's really worth respect. It's unfortunate that he was not at his best.   
I still think he played pretty well. He was coming to the net and trying to mix things up. I don't know exactly to what degree his injury is, but when you're feeling a little bit hurt, you kind of go for your shots even more.   
I was a bit tense at the beginning. But winning the first set was probably the key, kind of turnaround point.   
 Q.  Going into the final, do you feel you're exactly where you want to be in terms of your game and physically?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes, I'm pleased with the way I've been feeling and playing. I thought ATP Cup went really well for me, got a lot of hours spent on the court, singles and doubles. It was a great lead-up for Australian Open. Obviously got a lot of positive energy from that competition.   
I dropped only one set so far up to the finals. I have two days of no match right now, which actually is really good. It gives me more time to recuperate and gather all the necessary energy for the finals.   
 Q.  It amazes us that Federer has been playing for 20 or more years and never retired from a match. As a player, how do you view that?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Respect. It's all I can say. I did have retirements throughout my career. I know how it feels when you're hurt on the court. I know the amount of thoughts that go through your mind whether or not you should continue or not, whether it's going to get worse. Only the player knows at that moment what you go through.   
Obviously it's really hard to compare injuries, because everyone goes through their injury respectively individually. But it's I think amazing fact that he has never retired his match, not a single match, throughout his career. Huge respect for that.   
 Q.  Now two younger players in the other semifinal. Obviously Dominic Thiem has a good head-to-head in the past 12 months against you top three guys. What do you think of the development of Alexander Zverev? Who do you expect in the final?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, Dominic won our last match we played against each other, a close one in London. He played a terrific match against Rafa last night. I watched that. Definitely one of the best players in the world. Deserves to be where he is.   
It seems like he's improved his game a lot on hard courts, because his game is more suitable to the slower surfaces. The clay of course being his favorite surface.   
But winning Indian Wells I think last year, beating Roger in the finals, that probably gave him a lot of confidence that he can win big tournaments on other surfaces, as well.   
Alex didn't start the year very well. I watched his matches. I practiced with him in Brisbane during ATP Cup. He wasn't feeling his best on the court, not much confidence.   
It's impressive with the way he has been playing so far in this tournament, building his game, raising the level of tennis that he's been playing.   
It's his first semifinals of Grand Slam in his career, so I'm sure that he is motivated, he's pumped to get at least a step further. It's going to be really a good match to watch.   
 Q.  How impressed are you by Dominic Thiem's progress over the last 12 months? Does he represent the biggest threat and the greatest progress in terms of the so-called next generation?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I don't think he's really anymore next generation. He's been around for many years. Now already he's an established top-5, top-10 player. Played a couple of Grand Slam finals, won Masters events, played finals of World Tour Finals. He's already there.   
It's just a matter of one match here and there that can potentially give him a Grand Slam title, that he can actually get in the mix of top three in the world.   
He definitely has the game. He has the experience now. He has the strength. He has all the means to really be there. He has improved in the last 12 months playing on the hard court without a doubt, and the results are showing that.   
 Q.  Have you seen him play better than he did last night?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I've seen him play very well on hard court in different conditions. It's a different matchup when you play Rafa than when you play Roger, who stays closer to the line and takes away the time from Dominic. But it was a tremendous match. I thought they both fought really well. Congrats to him.   
 Q.  You have made a famous habit of climbing a fig tree in the Botanical Gardens. Will that be on your agenda again this weekend?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I have been doing it several times. I just haven't made a photo to share with you guys. I've been seeing my good friend for many years, every year I come to Australia. That fig tree is my favorite spot, is my favorite place to be in Melbourne.   
I will go there definitely the next couple days.   
 Q.  Your performance 12 months ago has been described as the perfect display. Do you feel like you're getting towards perfection in this final? How do you rate your game 2020 compared to 2019?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No such thing really as perfection. You try to get as close to that. Last year's Grand Slam final performance was probably the best Grand Slam final performance I've ever had against Rafa, who was in form.   
This year I'll have a different opponent in the final, so obviously it's going to be a different matchup, different preparation.   
The contrast of styles of play between Dominic and Zverev is pretty big. One-handed backhand, heavy spin, a lot of power in the shots from Dominic. Then one of the biggest serves with Zverev, a little bit of a different style of play. They're both from the back of the court.   
I'll prepare myself for that match. Hopefully I'll be able to perform as well as I always had in the Australian Open finals.   
 Q.  Your coach Goran was recently announced as an inductee to the Tennis Hall of Fame. What has he brought to your camp, the positive energy and inspiration?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes, I'm really glad to see him enter the Hall of Fame this year. He is a great friend. He has been a mentor for many years to me. I mean, I've seen him on the tour, of course, when he was finishing his career. Also the last seven or eight years I've seen him a lot as a coach of other players.   
He's a great guy. Speak the same language. Come from very similar cultures. He was one of my heroes growing up. We go back since I was 12 years old. I do share some really nice moments with him throughout my upbringing and my evolution as a tennis player.   
He has been a significant part of my growth as a tennis player. To have him in my corner, in my box, is really a great honor and great pleasure.   
He brings obviously a little bit of a different style of coaching than Marian, but they are working synergetically very well. They complement each other. Goran, his philosophy has always been less is more, kind of giving the right information to the player, then understanding how a player can actually benefit from that.   
He likes to simplify things. It's working well.   
 Q.  What did you make of the protests that John McEnroe and Martina Navratilova did a couple days ago of the Margaret Court Arena, the banner they had? What does it mean that the players that are most vocal against this are over 60 years old?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I've seen the photo. I've seen the banner. I haven't really looked into that story too much, to be honest. I know what Margaret Court said. Look, there is an obvious difference of the opinion.   
Margaret is a huge champion, a tennis hero in Australia, and also around the world. One of the most important tennis players in the history of women's game. Of course, when she says something like that, it has a huge impact.   
I don't support that, obviously, what she said. I don't think it was the right thing to say. But she probably has her reasons and we have to respect that she has a difference in opinion. That's all there is to it.   
In terms of what the initiative is of John and Martina, I can't really say much about it. I'm not as informed about what they are trying to do.   
I understand a lot of people being hurt by the statements. I understand that.   
 Q.  Many people say experience helps players a lot, and in many cases experience might be a big advantage. When you won this tournament first time, you were 20 without much experience. What is the advantage of not having experience?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I think there is more advantage to have the experience than disadvantage. I think it's better obviously coming into the Grand Slam finals to have some experience behind you.   
At the same time if you don't have that experience maybe then you don't have the expectations or you don't have the pressure of being in the finals that you need to win.   
But I guess when you're a top player, even though Zverev, for example, has never been to a Grand Slam final, but he's still expected to be there for already quite a few years. People talk about his quality of tennis, him eventually getting there.   
Dominic has been there a couple times. The younger players now coming up and challenging us oldies to get to the Grand Slam finals. It's happening already. You're going to have Dominic or Sascha in the finals. It's inevitable it's going to happen more frequently in the future.   
I think it's good for sport. I'm going to try my best to prolong their domination in the Grand Slam as much as possible. I'm sure Roger and Rafa would agree.   
But it's going to happen. Whether it's this year we're going to have a new Grand Slam champion or next year, but it's very soon.   
Why not? I mean, it's good for our sport. Of course we need more champions.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT