CHINA OPEN
October 5, 2013
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/R. Gasquet
  6‑4, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   Novak, you were down 3‑1 in the first set, and after that extremely long game you were able to break his serve.   Talk about that and how that affected the momentum overall. 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yes.   That was probably one the turning points of the match.   I managed to get back after that break of. 
After that, I felt much better on the court.

Q.   Nadal has had a pretty amazing season this year.   He's now No. 1.   What are your thoughts going into the final?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   He has had a big season and it's definitely been playing the best tennis in 2013, but season is still not over.   I'm looking forward to the challenge tomorrow. 

Q.   What is your response going to be to him unseating you at No. 1?   Are you going to come out fighting and get it back?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Regardless of the rankings, I'm going to fight for the trophy tomorrow. 

Q.   Regarding the matchup with Nadal, some people feel that it depends a bit more on you than on him, the outcome.   That if you're playing with some intensity and level that you can have.   Of course it's difficult to keep that for the whole match.   What do you think about that? 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I think it doesn't depend only from me, depends from both of us.   He's always playing at an incredibly high level and you know what to expect from his side.   He's going to fight from the first to the last point and make you earn every point that you play against him.
Doesn't make many unforced errors.   He improved a lot his game on the hard court.   He's more aggressive and that makes him more dangerous.   He's equally good in defense and offense.   His serve is really efficient.   He's generally a better player I think than he was ever on this surface.
It's a tough one.   It's a tough one definitely.   He's, as I said, the best player in this moment.   I need to step up and try to play my best game. 
Whenever we play each other, very few details and points decide the winners.   I'm expecting it's going to be that way tomorrow. 

Q.   First.   Congratulations on the win.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Thank you. 

Q.   Okay.   I'm wondering, do you know the draw of the ATP in Shanghai has already come out?   We know that your good friend Wawrinka has already gone there.   Do you guys have like speaking in the phone talk about it or‑‑ I know it's probably a little bit early to ask this question, but do you guys talk about it?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Talk about what? 

Q.   ATP in Shanghai?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   No, not yet.   I focus myself on tomorrow. 

Q.   Gasquet was one of tougher opponents you faced here this year.   Talk about his performance today. 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yeah, he started well, but he wasn't managing to hold that rhythm throughout the whole match.   I knew that if I stay with him in a way and be aggressive in the rallies and believe that I can kind of impose my own control and rhythm of the game and of the rallies that I can break his rhythm.
That's what I've done.   Especially on the forehand side it's been working quite well. 

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about how you prepare mentally not only for a championship, but for a match against a player of Nadal's caliber?   Does that process at all change for you going into tomorrow, or is it the same old routine?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, I try to respect the same routines of preparation and recovery that I have before and after every match.   When I play top players, it's always an extra commitment and concentration. 
In terms of preparing for that match, I know what to expect, as I said before.   So tactically I'm going to talk with my team, what I need to do, and going to try to be as best as possible on the court. 

Q.   You have more than 11,000 ranking points now, but you will still drop to No. 2.   Can you talk about how hard it is to be a consist world No. 1 in this great era? 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yeah, it's obvious that being No. 1 at this time, especially this era, is an ultimate goal and challenge for anybody.
I know how hard it is because I've been fighting for that place for last couple of years.   I know what a player needs to do in order to end up year at No. 1.
It's still not lost for me.   He's going to be No. 1 for Monday, but the season is still not over.   As long as there is a chance ‑‑ yes, I'm defending points; he's not.   I have some room to get points here and there, but generally I just want to keep on playing well.
I'm just happy to be in the finals here.   Hopefully if I maintain this rhythm, the end results will follow the good performance. 
THE MODERATOR:   Chinese questions, please. 

Q.   Tomorrow you're supposed to have a match with Nadal for the 38th time.   What does this number mean for you?   Too much or too less? 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   (In English.)   Number is a number, right?   But I think it's the most encounters that two players had in the history of this sport.   It's almost 40.   It's an incredible number.   I still feel that we're going to have many more.

Q.   Nadal used to say that in ATP ranking, Top 4 or 5, have a very consistent statistics.   Therefore, the result of each match is not that unexpected.   What's your comment on these words?   Thank you. 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I didn't understand really the question. 

Q.   For the Top 4 or 5 players, they have similar statistics.   Whatever the result could be, actually it's not that unexpected.   What are your comments on his remarks? 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I still don't understand.
THE MODERATOR:   Rafa said that Top 4 and 5 players are in control and solid.   What do you think about his comment? 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I agree. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT