SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 10, 2013
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/F. Fognini
  6‑3, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Just talk a little bit about your match today, how well you played.   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   It was quite humid conditions today on the court.   I could see that many players who were playing today were sweating a lot.   It's quite different from any of the previous days.   So that affected the speed of the ball on the court.   It was heavier.   So you needed to work more.   
I needed to play a lot of kind of long rallies and work for my points because also Fognini is a player in form in the last three or four months.   He played a great match against Rafa in Beijing.   He had a few great wins on clay.   So he's been pretty confident on the court.   He's somebody that has a lot of talent, moves around the court quite fast, makes you work.   
Yeah, it was a good win.   In important moments I served well.   I played the right shots at the right time.   A straight‑sets win is something that I was looking forward to.   
   
 Q.   Beijing and here you've been serving really well, holding most of your serves fairly easily.   How did you step up the serve in the last part of the season?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, it's work.   It's not something that you wake up with the next morning.   You have to put in a lot of hours on the practice courts and trying to work on these segments of your game, then after rely on them in the important moments.   
   
 Q.   Any thoughts on your next match?   Sadly for the audience they can't see a match between you and Roger.   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, Monfils, from I watched, was the better player on the court and he deserved to win.   He's always tricky when he serves big, as big as he served today.   
He's one of the most interesting, I think, tennis players to watch because he's so athletic, he's so fast, he moves around the court well.   He's somebody that feeds off the energy of the crowd.   He loves to play big matches on a big stage.   
I'm sure he was very motivated to beat Roger today.   He succeeded in that.   I don't think he's going to lack this kind of motivation for our match tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Roger talked a little bit about how earlier this season he was troubled after Indian Wells with the back.   He's had a much‑reduced schedule.   After the Olympics last year, felt it was almost kind of an in‑between year and feels he'll come back stronger in 2014.   From what you've seen of him, do you think he is going to be back to challenging yourself and Andy and Rafa next year?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I think he knows the best how he feels.   He knows what he's saying.   He's 17‑time Grand Slam winner, one of the best players in the history of the game.   If he says he's going to play better, work better, it's definitely worth listening if he says it that way.   
The fact is that he hasn't played the tennis that was kind of part of his dominance in the last seven, eight years.   He hasn't played it in the last 15 months.   Everybody's aware of that.   
Again, he's Federer.   He's the most Grand Slam winner in history.   Whenever he plays, wherever he plays, he's always on the spotlight, he's always the man to beat.   This is fact, and it's going to stay that way as long as he's going to play tennis.   
   
 Q.   We saw the character you drew on the camera.   Are you sure that's the character of love?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   That's what they told me.   
   
 Q.   Are you sure that's the character of love?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I'm asking you.   If it's not, what is it?   
   
 Q.   It's a little bit difficult for me to recognize that character.   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Okay.   For others it was not.   I'm happy that the crowd recognized it.   
   
 Q.   I think a fan told you how to draw that.   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   The fans told me.   They wait for me in the hotel every day, so I try to communicate, interact with them as much as I can.   A new Chinese character was on my mind, so they show me how you should draw love.   I thought it was nice.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT