CHINA OPEN
October 4, 2013
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/S. Querrey
  6‑1, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   You didn't drop a single game today serving.   Talk about some of the success you had with the serve tonight.   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Sorry.   Your question was too quick.   
   
 Q.   You didn't drop a single game while you were serving.   Talk about the success you had with that tonight.   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, I've been serving well in last two matches.   Basically all of the matches I played.   I think doubles helped my serve.   That's one of the reasons I played doubles in this tournament, because I wanted to work on that part of my game.   
It's really helping.   I feel there is an improvement.   Of course, in today's tennis there is so many great physical competitors who are running for every ball or returning well.   
To get free points on your serve is necessary and needed.   So I played a big sever tonight.   I managed to read his serve well and managed to always make him play an extra shot.  
I think that was a perfect performance overall.   Good combination between serving efficiently and returning basically every serve back.  
   
 Q.   You're nine and 1‑All time against Gasquet.   Talk about the success you've had against him in the past?   What do you expect tomorrow?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   He's an established top‑10 player now.   He was always one of the most talented players in our generation.   I think in last two years he's playing the tennis of his life.   In terms consistency, he's up there.  
He's playing well on different surfaces, and here is a bit slower, which I think is quite suitable to his style of game.   He won Ferrer in straight sets.   He's feeling good.   
Semifinals of this tournament of course there is no clear favorites, but we're expecting a tough match for both of us.   There is no question about it.   I need to be aggressive.   I know what I need to do against him.   
Hopefully it's going to work.   
   
 Q.   Novak, when you come to a city that you never lost, do you have a stronger sense of invincibility compared to some other tournaments?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, there is definitely a factor of confidence when I come to the place where I never lost.   This is definitely something that helps me feel confident, just feel free on the court and perform my best.  
It's exactly the sensations that I have when I play on to the center court.   I have great support, and I enjoy this tournament.   I enjoy every year I come.   I have a blast.   I try to enjoy every moment.   
   
 Q.   Novak, you know pretty well Ricardo, the coach of Richard.   You've worked with him sometimes.   Can you see the hand of Ricardo behind the new consistency of Richard?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Talk about that.   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yes, I know Ricardo really well.   I learned Italian because of him.   We spoke in Italian a lot.   He's one of the people that I know in my life that ‑‑ few people ‑‑ that have such incredible, positive fanaticism in a way, and passion for this sport.  
I think he enjoys being out there on the courts every single day practicing.   He's somebody that's committed to the hard work, and that's exactly what Richard needed.   I think he always had a perfect talent and touch and variety in his game, but he needed to put in the hours on the court and off the court in order to be consistent with his results.  
I think that's what helped him to get where he is in this moment.   
   
 Q.   Querrey racked up a number of unforced errors today.   Were you surprised by that at all?   Were you expecting anything different from him?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   He's a player that's known for going for his shots.   He doesn't have great percentage play, let's say.   He either makes winners or unforced errors.   And he has a big serve.  
If he gets a lot of free points on his serve, that's when he's going to feel much more confident on hitting the groundstrokes better.  
Today, I just managed to get all the serves back.   He dropped the first service, 1‑0 for me.   I was 3‑Love up after five minutes.   Already he was not feeling that great on the court.   
I was just trying to use ever opportunity that I have.   I guess that caused him to make so many unforced errors.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT