WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 16, 2013
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. ISNER/N, Djokovic
  7‑6, 3‑6, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Novak, please.

Q.   Novak, obviously, a tough match.   You had a lot of chances on your serve that you kept fending off all until the last game.   Did you notice something different than before?   It seemed like he was getting more chances than usual. 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   No, I just played a very bad match overall.   Terrible match.   From beginning to end, except the start of the second set, I was just a different player totally. 
Today I wasn't able to capitalize on my opportunities and serves.   You know, in some important moments some double faults, and that's the way it is.

Q.   Was it a mental issue today, Novak, or physical? 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I don't know.   All together.

Q.   Novak, just talk about Isner's serve today and how much trouble it gave you. 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   It's tremendous.   These conditions here, very fast, and it's very difficult to return.   I mean, you can see he didn't give me much second serves in the third set. 
I don't know what was his percentage of the first serves in the third set, but it was extremely high. 
So he deserved to win.

Q.   Novak, after he beat you at Indian Wells last year he got into the top 10 for the first time, and I think a lot of Americans hoped he would stay there and be a regular top‑10 guy.   Do you think that still should be something that he's capable of with the kind of tennis he's shown you? 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, he was there, so that means he's capable.   But one tournament, two tournaments don't change anything.   He has to be consistent and be successful in order to stay there.

Q.   Novak, will this loss affect your preparations for the US Open at all? 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   No.   I'm going to prepare as best as I can.   Of course now I'm disappointed because I really wanted to win.   But it's sport; I'll move on.

Q.   Were you focusing on getting to win all the Masters at all here?   Does it make it more disappointing than a normal Masters loss?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yeah, it is.   It's disappointing that I played this way.   For me, it's very disappointing.

Q.   Novak, you mentioned this is both mental and physical.   Are there any physical concerns you have going into New York? 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   No, nothing major.

Q.   What's next for your schedule after Cincinnati?   How many days off and then... 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I'll see.   I just came off the court.   I really don't know. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT