MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 7, 2013
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 G. DIMITROV/N. Djokovic
  7‑6, 6‑7, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What you can say about the match?   Did you expect this, what happened?   Was Dimitrov better in this match?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, he was the better player.   The better player won the match, no question about it.  
You know, I could have played better.   You know, I had my chances.   I was fighting until the end, so that's a positive thing.   I always try to give my best in these moments, and he was the better player.  
I congratulate him.   He played great tennis and he deserved to win.  
   
 Q.   How are you physically, and what do you make about the crowd and the way they reacted?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, physically it's not so good, you know, in this tournament.   I didn't prepare myself so good.   But, look, you know, I'm not trying to find any excuses for the loss.   I tried to do my best in this moment, and maybe my best is not like it was in Monte‑Carlo.   
But all the credit also to Dimitrov, because he was the better player on the court.   He was striking the ball really well, serving great, changing the pace, and, yeah, he deserved to win, as I said.  
For the crowd, they picked him as the favorite player to support, so that's all I can say.   
   
 Q.   There seemed to be a point at 4‑5 in the first set where you thought you had won the first set and Dimitrov played a ball long.   It was overturned.   What happened in that moment?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yeah, well, I don't want to discuss about those calls.   The balls were really, really close.   I thought it was out, but, okay.   You know, it's chair umpire's decision in the end, and I respect that.   
   
 Q.   Will you go back to Madrid next year after the boos of the spectators?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I'll be bike.   I like to play in this tournament.   It's a big tournament.   I will forget about this.   I have to move on to another tournament.   
   
 Q.   Novak, it seemed as though the crowd, I mean, there were a lot young kids calling your name out early on and cheering you on.   Seemed to be a moment where you seemed to twist your ankle and you were in apparent pain and the crowd suddenly turned against you.   Did you feel it that way?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   No.   I felt it much earlier.   You know, in the first set, every single close call that I went to look at the ball and the chair umpire comes to see, I got whistled.   I don't see any reason for that.   I didn't do anything bad.   
When I see the ball, it's good, I clear the mark.   I give him a point.   I never did anything opposite in my life.   I'm honest.   If I see the ball in, I play the ball; if it's close, I call the chair umpire.  
I don't understand why they turn against me, for what reason, but it is what it is.   I'm a professional, and it's not the first time I'm experiencing that.   
   
 Q.   I want to ask you about Dimitrov.   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I just said about Dimitrov everything I am going to say.   
   
 Q.   Why do you think this situation was with the crowd?   Why?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I don't know why.   
   
 Q.   No?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   You tell me why.   I don't know.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   I don't know.   Do you think...   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Did you see the reason that the crowd turn against me?   I don't know what to say.  
   
 Q.   No, but this is topic, sometimes people think that the audience in Madrid doesn't know much about tennis.   What do you think about that?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I don't think it's true because there is a tournament here for so many years.   Plus, Nadal is for so many years a top player winning the big tournaments and he's Spanish.  
People know tennis here.   There is no question about it.  
   
 Q.   You said for this tournament that you didn't prepare yourself so good.   Can you elaborate?   After Monte‑Carlo, what happened between there and now?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, for 12 days after Monte‑Carlo I haven't touched the racquet.   I didn't know up to Saturday if I'm going to come here or not because of the ankle.  
But in the end, you know, I made the decision to come because I like to play in this tournament.   You know, maybe could have been different; maybe not.   Now it's too late to think about what I decided.  
I thought it was the right decision because, luckily for me, nothing really happened when I twisted the ankle during the match.   It was a slight moment.   I had good protection on my ankle.   
So right now that is the only positive thing that I look into, is that I didn't injury my ankle worse before Rome and Paris.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT