DAVIS CUP FINALS
November 20, 2019
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SERBIA 2, Japan 0
DJOKOVIC/Nishioka 6-1, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Hi, Novak. How are you feeling physically out there?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Very good. Felt good. Had enough time from the last match in London to today's match to prepare, and performed well.
Q. How do you feel about the new format of the Davis Cup? Andy Murray said it is more stressful for the players, but how do you feel?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I talked about it before. I think the sacrifice that had to be made, which is a pretty big one, and a lot of players complain about that, is that you don't have a chance to play at home. You know, for 99 percent of the nations they don't have a chance to play home ties.
But this kind of format change had to create some kind of, I guess, sacrifice. And that was probably the biggest one, which I personally as well miss. I miss playing at home for Serbia in the Davis Cup.
But I also support the fact that there had to be a change from the old format because just the old format wasn't I think generating enough interest in the world of sport, in the world of tennis as well, with the way the model of the Davis Cup format used to be.
I think maybe the ideal format is somewhere in between. Maybe creating an elite eight tournament and having maybe one week or two weeks earlier in the year where nations can play at home in the qualifications group for the elite eight, something like that.
But again, I think it's exciting playing for your country in any format that is out there. For me, it's a great honor and pleasure.
I didn't play for the Serbia national team for two-and-a-half years so I missed that feeling. And all of the guys from the team are my friends, I grew up with them, I know them very well, and we share a lot of great moments and memories playing Davis Cup. We won in 2010 at home. We played a couple of finals, semifinals.
So, you know, it was this competition that also brought a lot of benefits or, so to say, positive things to our individual careers. So, of course, it's always special being together with them and the team.
Q. I just want to ask you about what you just said about better timing for this team competition, regarding the context of ATP Cup, Laver Cup, Davis Cup. To your mind, what would be the best timing during the year for this? And do you think as a consequence, as a last tournament in the year, it's not, let's say, an ^ (inaudible) for this event as a success, the reason?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, look, when you make a change it's always going to be a risk, you know. It's -- there's a lot of money invested in this competition. There's 18 -- is it 18 teams? 90 players, plus hundreds of people from the staff of all the teams. So it's a big organization and, you know, it takes a lot of time, a lot of effort to put this together.
So I'm sure that organizers of this event are, you know, doing their best to make this a successful week, a successful event. Which it's a lot of responsibility and pressure on them because this is the most traditional, historic team event in our sport, over 100 years. So there's a tremendous burden of history on them to make it right.
Then, of course, scheduling was always an issue, you know, for both ATP Cup and Davis Cup. Actually, in my opinion, which was an idea, that it could happen, was the merge between the two. And so I think it's still open for the future.
I've been part of discussions through the Player Council, through various different ways in the last three years, about the evolution of the ATP Cup and the changes in Davis Cup. And, of course, the ITF and ATP are two different organizations. So it's very complex, it's not easy to make any change in our sport.
But I think when the change is made, at least you make that first step. Of course, you can always point out the negatives but there are positives as well.
So looking long-term, I personally don't think that the two events can co-exist six weeks apart. It's just a little bit too congested.
The most ideal I think time of the year is after US Open, probably end of September. That would be the best time to have this super cup, whatever, one cup hopefully in the future.
Yeah, I mean, that's my opinion. I don't know whether that's realistic or not, whether that's possible. There are so many different things, so many different people and entities involved that it's really not easy just to say, Let's pick that date, because, you know, you have so many different tournaments that you are harming maybe because of that week and so forth and so forth.
Right now, it is what it is. It is the last week of the year. It's definitely a tough schedule for not just our players, but I think for a lot of players, it's really difficult because you have a whole season and then you have to push yourself for another week and then eventually play singles, doubles every day.
But, you know, as I said, there are positives as well, and we'll see what the future brings.
Q. Novak, what are your expectation before facing France? The same excitement like the final you mentioned in 2010.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: It's probably one of the biggest challenges that we can have in this competition. Playing against France, is one of the most successful nations in Davis Cup, and definitely one of the strongest teams. I mean, France has so many different players, they can create two, three different teams that can play equally well singles, doubles. So having got that variety of players and quality of players in your team makes a big difference and it's a big advantage.
So of course, I'm really glad that we managed to get two wins in singles today. Today, I think Krajinovic and I both played well, which is important. Heading into tomorrow's maybe deciding -- well, definitely deciding match -- tie, sorry, against France.
So we'll try to get the most out of the singles matches because doubles, you know, the best doubles team in the world at the moment, Herbert-Mahut, it's really tough. I expect the win there. But, of course, we are not a bad team as well. So we hope we can get a positive outcome.
Q. Novak, I'm curious to get your opinion on this. Yesterday, Canada gave the USA a walkover in the doubles. The result is still being counted as 6-Love, 6-Love, whereas through the year if there's a walkover, it's not recorded in head-to-heads or player activities, or anything like that. Do you think it should go through as 6-Love, 6-Love or no points are awarded with a result like that?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I heard that, actually, just recently. I personally don't like that. I mean, that shouldn't be allowed, to be honest. I understand that Canada is through already, they won both of their ties. Maybe some of the players like Felix, I think he's injured, and they wanted to rest their players for the quarterfinals and onwards.
But I just feel it's not fair also to -- not fair that, you know, the opposing team -- was it USA? -- gets 6-Love, 6-Love because they are going actually head-to-head now against Italy. And then the winner is going to be second, but then that 6-Love, 6-Love might make a big difference in the calculations for the second-best teams in the group. So I don't think that's fair, to be honest.
But I also understand it wouldn't be fair if you just don't give a point, you know, because USA was ready to play doubles. So I don't know. But I think everyone should be obliged to come out and play, at least play.
Q. I want to ask you, what is your New Year's resolution for 2020? It's an Olympic year and the Olympic title is the only one, the only big title that you are missing. What do you think about Tokyo 2020 and do you think you will have a chance to win the medal?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Personally, the biggest resolution, New Year's resolution and biggest wish, is to be healthy and to spend as much quality time with my family and to have laughs with my kids and with my wife, my brothers. For me, that's the number one thing.
And tennis-wise, professionally, Olympics is definitely very high on the list of wishes for next year. So I'm going to try to be healthy, be fit, be prepared to play my best.
I played Tokyo tournament, I won it this year. And the Olympic Games are going to be played on the same courts, which are quite good for my style of the game, I think it's quite suitable.
So I look forward to it. I think it's going to be fun. Olympics are always bringing something extraordinary I think. Every four years you get a chance to be part of the most historic sports events in the history of sport. And you know, you never get really a chance to, other than Olympics, to really sit next to all the elite athletes from their sports and dine with them and just exchange experiences and knowledge and everything. Just, there's a lot of storytelling, a lot of fun. I like that part as well and hopefully I can also have a successful Olympic Games where I can have a chance to win a medal.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Serbian.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT