DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
March 1, 2013
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/J. Del Potro
  6‑3, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You had the bobble again. 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yeah, it's becoming a tradition in this tournament to drop a serve when I'm serving for a match. 
Well, hopefully it's not going to happen another time tomorrow.

Q.   Overall how did you feel about coming through like you did?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yeah, I mean, I was very pleased with the performance overall and the way I handled myself in the tough moments.
Mentally I stayed tough and believed that I could, you know, that I could go all the way and win in straight sets.   I didn't really allow myself to be negative, you know. 
I have been very, very positive and confident, so I think that resulted with overall a really good performance.

Q.   Do you always feel you can raise your game at any time, for instance, like in the tiebreak or towards the end of that second set?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, yes.   I mean, I feel I know how well I can play and I know what my qualities are and abilities. 
You know, everything I try to do is always give the maximum of my abilities, you know, whoever I play against.   Obviously at this level, you know, you need to be consistent with that level of performance because you're playing a top‑10 player, and it's always going to be a tough challenge.
But again, mood and performance kind of varies throughout the match.   It's normal to have ups and downs, and it's really tough to kind of keep the concentration at the 100% when you're playing such quality players.
But, look, you know, it's important to hang in there, have that self‑belief on the court and make sure that you fight for every point.

Q.   Juan Martin obviously got angry about the time violation he was given, and it came after quite a long rally and on break point.   Did you feel it was unfair?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, look, yeah, I mean, I don't know exactly if the chair umpire gave him unofficial verbal warning before that.   If he didn't, then I don't agree with that decision obviously, and I would always say that, because‑‑ yeah, I have really nothing against ‑‑I had quite a few warnings myself for time violations, and I have really nothing against that if the chair umpire previously gives me a heads‑up, you know, and says, Okay, you're taking a little bit too much time. 
But, you know, as a chair umpire, you need to follow the game, you know.   If it's a long point, you need to have that little amount of tolerance, I guess, and patience also for the player.
It's unfortunate obviously, you know.   I understand why he was frustrated.

Q.   Berdych made a point about bringing a clock onto court, a clock right there so everyone can see what's going on with the time.   Do you think that's a good idea?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I don't think it's necessary, really.   I mean, there is a chair umpire, supervisors, people from ATP and from the tournament who are watching the match and taking care of the time.
You know, you have to respect their decisions, but it all has to be according to rules and I think also fair to the player.

Q.   Do you think though that time violation was a key factor in the second set kind of defining moment that, you know, allowed you to break?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, I really don't know.   Maybe he can answer that question better because he knows how he felt after that. 
Okay, yes, I did make ‑‑that was on the break point.   It was in a tough moment definitely for him.   But still, I mean, I made three breaks I think in the second set.   So didn't really make a significant difference, I think, you know.   We were very even in that second set.

Q.   Congratulations on making the final.   You either play Berdych or Federer.   Can you walk us through each matchup separately?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, it's finals, you know.   I want to win this title, and whoever I play against tomorrow I will try to enjoy the match and of course fight to get to the trophy. 
I mean, Tomas and Roger, they love playing on this court.   I think it's going to be a thrilling match to watch.   It's going to be very close, I think. 
So, you know, Roger is the defending champion, loves playing here.   Tomas, again, if he serves well with a high percentage of first serves, he can beat anyone.   He has proven that in the past, so I'm going to have to be on top of my game.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT