SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 24, 2013
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/S. Devvarman
  6‑2, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Looked like another nice day at the office for you today getting through in straight sets.   How do you feel like you're playing so far in Miami?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, considering the wind it was a nice day.   Conditions not so great.   You know, it was very difficult to kind of get into the rhythm because you couldn't really serve at your 100% and you had to go more for precision and you had to put twice as much effort in the step adjustments because of the windy conditions.  
All in all, I'm just happy to get through the rough day.  
   
 Q.   I am from Mexican TV.   We saw a beautiful video that the people from Miami make for you.   This warm video, how can you tell to the Latins who support and love your career?   For the Latins, what can you say?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I can say gracias.   (Laughter.)  
Gracias, con todo mi corazon.   
No, it was something I didn't expect, the video on the court, so I was very thrilled to see that, and very touched also.   It was a beautiful video.   I love spending time here.   I love this tournament, and there is many Latins coming here and supporting their favorite tennis players and supporting tennis in general.  
They are very passionate people, and you can say that, which I like very much.  
   
 Q.   You came with a special trophy from Indian Wells here.   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Can you explain to us?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yeah, it was a little trophy present that I received from Nole fan group that has been formed not so long ago and that is growing every day.   So yourself and one of the beautiful girls from Argentina has presented me this trophy in Indian Wells, and as a sign of appreciation of what I do.   
You know, it's incredible, you know, just to see the amount of passion that the people have who support me and who feel that what I do inspires them.  
So that's definitely something very dear to my heart.   Because of these people I'm smiling and I am motivated every day to play the sport.  
   
 Q.   This is a big‑picture question.   When do you think was the turning point in your tennis career?   You have always been sort of hovering there, and then all of a sudden, you know, it seemed like things turned and you're No. 1.   Was it a mental thing?   Was it a physical change?   Was it a particular match?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I think it was mental in the end, you know.   Bottom line is this is a mental game.   Everybody can work very hard during the day on their physical condition and achieve a certain level of the game.   
But in the big matches and at a big tournaments, in the close moments, the player who is more calm and who is more mentally composed and who has more experience usually wins the match.   
So I have been No. 3 of the world since I was 19, 20 years old, in next three or four years, and during that period I was very, successful, but still wasn't managing to make that extra step and start winning majors and challenging Federer and Nadal for the top spot of the world.  
You know, it was a process of learning, understanding who I am, what I need to do on and off of the court, maturing.  
I was patient.   I did have my doubts definitely through this period, but the great team of people around me who are experts in their departments and who have also been a great support to me and great friends and always believed in my abilities and convinced me that I could do it.   
I also believed very much that I could be No. 1 of the world, because that's something that always has driven me on the day‑to‑day basis to practice and to really work hard and to dream.  
So it was, I guess, mental thing in the end.  
   
 Q.   Next opponent is Tommy Haas; a little bit of a change of pace from today.   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   How would you assess that matchup, and do you maybe go out with a little respect given all he's overcome the last couple of years?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   The respect does not lack, you know, for Tommy and everything he has done.   He's what, 34 years old, but he has been chosen as the comeback player of the year last year.   Already now he's top 20, moved into the top, and he's an all‑around player.   He's very talented, and he's probably one of the most experienced active players in the world now.  
He can play equally well on any surface.   Today on windy conditions I watched his match.   He played terrific match, and so, you know, you can always expect Tommy to fight and try his best.  
So I know what to expect.   It's going to be a tough match, and hopefully I can be fit to play my best.  
   
 Q.   What puts you in a bad mood?   Are you ever like cranky?   Dragging around?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Of course.   Of course I am.   (Smiling.)  
Well, the life circle, I guess, it goes up and down, you know, good and bad.   You can't expect to have always good days.   You try your best changes day to day so you always try to maximize your abilities on the certain day.   But of course there are frustrations.   There are things that just can get you nervous and can get you in the bad mood.  
It's the everyday problems that everybody has.   I'm no different.   I just learned over the years how to manage them, you know.   
And as I said, it's important always to have the right, honest people who love you and treat you well, who keep you grounded, and, you know, keep things in perspective always.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT