BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 16, 2013
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/N. Djokovic
  4‑6, 6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   It was a tremendous match.   What turned it around from Love‑3 in the third?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   His fighting spirit and my lack of concentration.   I just ‑‑I didn't deserve to win today.   You know, whenever I had chances, second, third set, I throw them away with some unforced errors.   My movement was poor, and I congratulate to my opponent.  
   
 Q.   Was it hard to play today?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yep.   
   
 Q.   Too warm?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yes.   
   
 Q.   Shadows?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Also.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   He seems to have added a bit more to his game:   a little slice here and there, dropshots, not all explosive.   Does that mixing up a bit of the game make him the more difficult opponent these days?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yeah, I mean, he has a big serve; he moves around the court very well for his height; he uses that forehand as a great weapon, you know.   Great running forehand, so he's opening that side.  
I didn't use my backhand along the line as I usually do.   It's one of my best shots.   Today I just wasn't there.   My backhand generally wasn't there.   It's okay, you know.   It happens.   It's sport, and I just didn't make it this time.   
   
 Q.   You tend to use setbacks as even extra, more motivation, Novak.   You've got a long season to come.   Streaks have to come to an end, don't they?   It just happens?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   It happens.   I mean, look, all the credit to my opponent today.   He deserved to win because he was more composed in the important moments and he played the right shots.   
He stepped into the court, where, on the other side, me, I made a lot of unforced errors and was at back of the court too passive.   
So, yeah, it's sport.   Now I need a few days off and moving on to Miami.  
   
 Q.   He took an Olympic medal from you.   Does that stick into the back of your head or do you put that away?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   No, we played too many times after that.   We played like four times after Olympic Games.   It's normal when you're competing at this level, you know, close matches, especially against somebody of his quality, you know, a Grand Slam champion.  
   
 Q.   Can you take a moment and compare his forehand, his weapon, to some of the other great forehands in the game?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yeah, he's right up there.   He has a very flat forehand and he is basically ‑‑his tactics is to, you know, stay in the backhand corner and try and run around the forehand.   
He's basically inviting you to play on his forehand, so he has a great running forehand crosscourt, you know, depending on the surface, but he definitely use that as a big weapon.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT