BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 5, 2012
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/J. Tsonga
  7‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   (Indiscernible) shoes. 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   What is that? 

Q.   You were stumbling a little bit more than usual.   Was it the shoes, the surface or you were diving for things? 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   All those balls were out of my reach, so I tried to dive.   I don't usually dive that much.   I don't usually spend that much on the net as well. 
Was quite successful and played some really, really good volleys when I needed to.   Served me well.   Everything is fine with shoes, I assure you.

Q.   Can you give us your assessment of tonight's victory and your views of facing Andy Murray?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   The opening set obviously could have gone either way.   To be quite honest, he was the better player throughout the first set. 
I faced many breakpoints, and I didn't have any in the opening set.   Managed to serve well, play well, stay mentally tough, and tried to fight my way through.   That's what I've done. 
It was very important after the first set.   Obviously I relaxed a little bit more, stepped into the court, played more aggressive, and it resulted with a straight‑set win. 
My next match against Andy is always a big challenge.   He had the lots of success in London, playing in his town, in front of his crowd, so big support, big match.   We know a lot about each other.   I'm sure that we're going to come up with some really good tennis. 

Q.   You've had a lot of really exhausting matches against Andy.   Does the fact that it's round robin change the mindset at all? 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, no, I think primary focus should be only on the next match, next opponent.   So that's what it is right now. 
When I'm playing Andy, I need to be ready for long rallies and physically demanding match.   So I'm going to have a day tomorrow to recover and get ready for next challenge. 

Q.   You had some pretty slow serves in the first set.   Does it mean something?   You were quite annoyed by something? 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, I didn't really pay attention on that too much.   I cannot produce the speed as maybe Jo does or Berdych or these guys.   I mean, they have huge serves, everything over 130 miles.   I can dream about 130 miles only. 
My asset is my placement with the serve.   So that's why I try to use more often.   I don't really care if is 120 or 130 miles serve, as long as is next to the line. 

Q.   How would you compare your physical condition today compared to last week in Paris?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, it's a different story.   It's a different week.   I mean, I had difficult circumstances, some things I had to face. 
But that's why this match tonight was very important for me mentally, you know, to break the ice in some way, to return to the shape that I want to be in, the mental state, also be confident and optimistic on the court, play my game. 
Hopefully I can carry this on to another match against Andy in two days. 

Q.   How much personal satisfaction do you take in ending the year again as world No.1?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   It's a huge satisfaction.   Of course, it doesn't affect my preparations here for this tournament, for every match that I play on.   Of course, I want to win every match that I play here.   That's why I'm here.   It's the season finale. 
But knowing in the back of my mind that I will end as No.1 is a huge relief and a huge satisfaction for me and my team.   Knowing how long the year was and how difficult and competitive it was with all of my rivals, it just makes it even bigger. 

Q.   You actually practiced with Andy Murray last Saturday.   In the tournament with round robin format, do you try to avoid practicing with the players in the same group?   Is that a concern?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I don't think we really thinking about that too much.   And we also didn't know we were in the same group.   So that day was a draw. 
But we practice with each other very often, whenever we can.   We are big rivals, as well.   But also very fair to each other.   Very friendly relationship.   There is no reason not to practice with each other. 
I'm very glad to keep that relationship with Andy, somebody that I know for a very long time. 

Q.   The last few years we've seen you in this room looking pretty wiped out, tired at the end of the year.   You look fresh at the moment.   I know you just won your match.   Do you feel different this year?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, considering the fact that I just won the match maybe makes me look better than last year. 
But, no, I mean, it's been also long year this year, this season.   Many matches, many things to face.   But every year is a new challenge that I need to overcome, that I try to embrace, always take the best out of it, always learn something new from all these experiences. 
You know, I'm sure that I'm not the only player here that feels tired after all season.   I mean, all of us, we played a great year, great season.   I mean, some players played more matches and more tournaments than I have.   So I don't try to find an excuse there. 
Obviously we all try to hold on for another couple of matches and give our best and see how it goes. 

Q.   You also won the ATP Humanitarian Award today.   How does that figure alongside your tennis achievements and awards?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   To be honest, it's even a bigger award to me personally than any other because it's a respect to what my foundation has done this year and all these years, so this is something that makes all the people working in our foundation very happy and motivates us all to do even more. 
So I really appreciate that award and I'll be very glad to receive it tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT