CHINA OPEN
October 7, 2012
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/J. Tsonga
  7‑6, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese, please. 

Q.   Today a lot of little boys who play tennis, they are expecting to get encouragement from you yesterday when you practiced on the court.   I also see some little players who also play tennis, they want to ask for autograph.   Unfortunately, they were turned down by the security guard.   They want to get some encouraging words from you. 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, yes, yesterday that was the case I have seen because many players, as you said, boys and girls, were trying to get pictures and everything.
But, you know, security reacted the way they reacted.   But, you know, I tried to get those papers and magazines and pictures to sign it after.   Nobody give me.   I will try today. 
It also means to me to see them being happy, you know, because I was one day also in their position as a young tennis player who was looking up to somebody and a role model and wanted to make a picture or get a signature.   I understand that.   Hopefully now on the way out we can do that.

Q.   (Question about dietary needs.)
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   No, I do have my own diet, and I still respect that.   So the tournament organizers here make sure that I have all the necessary food that I need and drink, so I didn't have any complaints.

Q.   When you sign the Chinese signature, did you realize you give one more stroke in that Chinese letter De?   A lot of fans are talking about your Chinese signature.   For the second day you made correct Chinese word, but today you forgot to add one more stroke to Chinese word.   How do you think the Chinese words‑‑ is it difficult to learn?   And another question, if you win the title in Shanghai Masters, are you going to sign the Chinese De again?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   It took me a lot of time to learn how to draw that sign, so you can imagine how difficult it would be to draw the 5,000 signs that you have even more.
But it is a very difficult language for us to learn, but for me, it's interesting because it's so complicated in a way for us and so mysterious, as well.   But it's a challenge, you know, to learn some phrases or some signs to draw.
So I got that from my fans, and they advised me to write that when I finish my matches.   I'm aware that I didn't make it as perfect as possible.   Hopefully somebody will not misinterpret what I draw there, but it's been a great week with my fans, especially, you know, and I have been doing most of these things because I wanted to make them happy as they made me happy throughout these years coming to China and also this week.
They have been so loyal and appreciative and supportive.   So, you know, it was the least I can do, you know, to learn.   I will try to learn a little bit more Chinese for next week. 

Q.   After you win the title today, you have traveled to China Open for three times.   You never lose.   My question is:   How long do you think this momentum will maintain, that is to say, you will never lose in China Open?   Will you come back to China Open next year?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I am planning to come back to the China Open next year.   It's been one of my most successful tournaments.   This is where I love to play.   I love the conditions.   And as I mentioned before, I have lots of support from the fans who are very loyal and very nice.
So I will really look forward to come back here next year and try to get another title.

Q.   My question is:   Did you have rehearsal to dance the Gangnam?   If you win the Shanghai Masters, will you dance the Gangnam again?   If you win China Open ‑‑you said you will come back to China Open next year.   What kind of performance are you going to have next year?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   No rehearsals.   The only time I have done it, I think, was a week ago.   The song is quite catchy, so I might do it again in Shanghai.   Depends.
For next year, we'll see if ‑‑I get a lot of feedback from the fans.   So if the fans have something to suggest, I'm open for any suggestions and maybe we can work something out for next time. 
THE MODERATOR:   English questions, please. 

Q.   Can you just tell me how you feltthe match progressed.   Tsonga said he missed an opportunity in the first set.   He broke you and then you were able to come back. 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, I think the first set was really even, and maybe a couple points decided the winner there.   We both had our chances aside those breaks that we, you know, we converted. 
Also, we had some break points that could have decided winner of the first set, but both of us, we served well when we needed to, and I think the realistic thing to expect for first set was tiebreak where, you know, everything is open. 
So I managed to hold my nerves in the end.   He made the double fault that probably costed him the set. And then, you know, when you're getting to the second set with the set advantage, mentally it is much more encouraging for you, you know, and then you try to play on that confidence run that you have. 
I made that early break in the second that after, you know, after it was ‑‑I felt much more comfortable on the court.

Q.   You were talking about the fans, and your fans had a chance to see you dancing, speaking, and even writing some Chinese.   I work for a TV channel in Brazil.   Since you are going to Brazil next month, I'm wondering what kind of performance can the fans expect from you?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, I always try to adjust to the culture that I go to.   So I never been to Brazil, and I'm really looking forward to come and play an exhibition event. 
We'll spend some time there, also.   We're not coming from one or two days.   We will be there for a little bit longer, because I want to see Brazil.   I want to experience Brazil.   And I also understand that tennis is popular there, of course, because of Guga and his results in his career.
But we'll see, you know.   I don't plan anything.   Everything comes quite spontaneous, so if, again, if we have some suggestions, I'll try to realize those.

Q.   Following on from the dance, you looked perhaps maybe slightly reluctant and nervous at the start, but you got into the swing of things.   Did you enjoy it?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Did I enjoy... 

Q.   The dance. 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   The dance?   Yeah.   (Laughter.)
As I said, nothing was planned.   But I was talking to the fans that actually suggested me to do that dance in the end of the tournament in case I win the tournament.
So I had to hold my promise, and it was fun.   You know, I think it was obvious that I was the worst dancer there out of the small group, but it still was quite a lot of fun.

Q.   The call that Jo was arguing during the tiebreak, have you been in that position where you might have felt distracted by an umpire's call?   Can you empathize with him?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Of course.   I have been in that position many times, you know, where I was a server or returner, and the call that was made today and the call that is similar to this situation is always decided by a chair umpire.   So it's his judgment.   You know, you can't really question that too much.   That's a final decision. 
You know, you could argue if, you know, if he was annoyed by the line umpire call, you know, that kept him away, you know, from returning the ball back to the court.   It didn't look like that, but, you know, again, it's ‑‑we both have subjective feelings and opinions in that moment, but it's, in the end, a final decision that the chair umpire makes.

Q.   Regarding the rest of the season, is your target now to regain the No. 1 spot in the world?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Of course.   That's the target.   This will definitely help me in that race, but it's still quite open.   There is still tournaments to come, big ones.   Shanghai, obviously the first 1000 event that is next week.   Everybody is playing there except Nadal. 
You know, I want to try to get as far as I can in the tournament, obviously taking one match at a time as I always do. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT