BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 31, 2012
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. QUERREY/N. Djokovic
  0‑6, 7‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   After the first eight games ‑‑ you were hitting it so well.   What turned it around, do you think?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, you know, great tennis at the start, but I knew that the main problem today will be the continuity of my energy.   
Unfortunately, it wasn't to be after the second set.   And during the second set I already felt that physically I'm down, and I struggled every game.  
Yeah, it's unfortunate; but on the brighter side, I have a little bit more time to rest because I had really difficult period in the last couple of weeks.   Some things happened and a lot of things on my mind and had to do, so right now I just need a couple of days' rest before London.  
   
 Q.   What was wrong with you?   Are you feeling unwell or sick?   You say losing energy.   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yeah, yeah, a little bit of everything really.   I rather not talk about because it's going to sound I'm excusing myself for the loss.   Sam played very well, served very well.   
I usually don't like excuses, so I just keep it that way.   
   
 Q.   Do you regret coming here at all?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I don't regret anything in life.   I think whatever happens happens for a reason.   I don't regret.   I enjoyed my time here, even though, as I said, I had to face some things that are a little bit unusual for me.  
Definitely, you know, disappointed always when you lose a match, but we move on and we have London.   There is the last tournament of the year.  
   
 Q.   I hope I'm not talking out of place here, but there are some reports from home saying your father has been unwell but getting better.   Is that one of the things that's been difficult for you?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I'd rather not talk about it.   Sorry about that, but it's just private and I'd like to keep it that way.   
   
 Q.   Regarding London, do you think you're going to be 100% mentally and physically playing London, or is it too much right now?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I don't know.   I'm about to see that, because, I mean, obviously I try not to plan anything before I really finish the tournament; now that I'm done with the tournament, I will sit down with the team and see what's the best thing to do before London.   
Right now the way I feel, I mean, I definitely need a few days' rest, and then try to get a few days' practice before the tournament starts.  
   
 Q.   Have you been told by your medical people that you should be 100% by the time London comes around?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   There is no guarantee that you can be 100%, especially at this time of year, you know.   The players have played so many matches and obviously struggling to be fresh, but you're trying to, you know, find that last drop of strength, mental and physical, in order to play your best.  
I mean, these are big tournaments, and there is no definitely compromising in trying to, you know, think of maybe skipping the event or playing less or, you know, saving energy in order to play well in London.  
So it was never the case for me.   I tried all the way through to the end of this match, but I had a better opponent and I move on.  
   
 Q.   You said you have had to deal with some things in the last couple of weeks.   I think you arrived here on Wednesday last week, wasn't it?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Things have changed presumably in the last few days, haven't they?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   In what sense?   
   
 Q.   You said you have had to deal with things in the last week, but I would have thought you would not have arrived so early if you had things you had to deal with.   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, you don't know what is the nature of things so it's hard to judge.   I traveled a lot.   Let's call it that way, even though I was here.  
   
 Q.   Do you think, just for the credibility of the sport, that we just do need to look at this end of the season and reflect again as to whether a tournament as big as this should be the week before a tournament as big as the world finals?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, yeah, you know, there has been speculations, you know, about an option of moving this tournament in February.  
Maybe that will work better, especially for top players, you know.   We'll see.   I need to sit down of course with all of my fellow colleagues, tennis players, and of course the tournaments and ATP officials and see what we can do to make this schedule work better and in the players' favor.  
   
 Q.   I'm going to ask you again because the sound didn't work for TVs.   What happened in this game?   Can you repeat?   Sorry.   Just because it didn't work.   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Okay.   Specially for you.   You know, I started off well, but I was concerned about how long I can keep that level since physically I'm not feeling very good in last couple of days.  
So that was the issue, you know.   I lost the serve and got to tiebreak where I was a bit unfortunate, and then, you know, when you're playing somebody that hits, that serves that well in the corners, there is nothing you can do.   
You know, one break can decide a winner.  
   
 Q.   Just for fact checking, we want to be accurate in our reporting.   Can you tell us about when you left Paris?   We understand you traveled by plane back to Serbia.   When did you come back to Paris?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I don't know if you listened before, but I'd rather keep it private and not talk about it.   Sorry about that.   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT