SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 12, 2012
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/T. Haas
  6‑3, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   The match is not what the score shows.   Seems like you had some problems with your serve.   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, a little bit more up and down with the service games.   But generally when I needed to, I played well.   Played very solid from the baseline.   
My return games were exceptional.   So it's something that gave me a lot of confidence today.   
   
 Q.   In last days in press conference you told us you tried to put some influence on your friends, especially teenagers.   You know many people admire you because you are such a household star.   In fact, you are looking forward to university life.   You said one day you can go to university and study linguistics or psychology.   Do you want to say something to Chinese teenager fans or give them some advice on their studies or daily life?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Whatever they choose to do in their life, it's freedom of choice.   Only thing I can tell them is try to enjoy life in every moment of it because it's only one life.   
Laugh as long as you breathe and love as long as you live.   That's all I can say.   
   
 Q.   What do you think about tomorrow's match?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, it's always a big challenge when you're playing a top 10 player, especially when somebody who is an established one.   Tomas has been winning against top players on different surfaces in the last couple of years, so he knows how to play on a big stage and he knows how to play in big moments.   He played an upset in the US Open, played a tough one against Roger, and Andy in semis.   
Big game, big serve, big forehand.   
As I said, it's going to be difficult.   It's going to be tough.   But I've been playing well, too.   So I'll try to look for my chances tomorrow from the baseline and see how it goes.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned Bernard Tomic the other night.   I know you practiced with him.   He's struggling a little with his motivation at the moment.   Do you still he has what it takes to get to the top?   What are your thoughts on him at the moment?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, it's always difficult at that age to try to figure out what you need to do in order to improve, in order to get better.   He's still very young.   
But I believe that with the time he's going to get necessary experience to understand himself better and the life that he has.   
If he has a talent?   I still do think he has a talent, a potential.   He showed that on several occasions.   In this year in Australia, when he played quarters in Wimbledon also he beat some big players.   He's also a tall guy, has a big serve.   So he can be one of the top players.   It's just a matter of obviously him believing in that and also working hard.   
He needs to work hard.   He needs to be dedicated, committed, but also understand what it takes for him to get to that spot.   
   
 Q.   He said he only tried 85% the other day when he lost.   Does that surprise you?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, yeah.   To be honest, I don't think it's a great answer.   But he will learn.   He will learn.   I'm sure that he loves this sport.   I know him well, maybe more than other guys.   I know he's talented.   He truly loves the sport and has high ambitions.   
It's good to be confident, but also be modest, be aware of your abilities and also try to have results before you start speaking in the media different things.   
But, you know, he also has a lot of pressure from media.   He comes from a big country that has a Grand Slam, lots of expectations.   He was the best junior in the world.   He reached 2011 quarters of Wimbledon, fourth round of Australian Open.   There's a lot of things going on there through his head.   He's probably aware of the fact that he can face the big players, he can win in five sets, as he did this year in Australia.   
So physically and mentally he's there.   But if he can do it on a regular basis, that's something that tennis is actually asking from him.   So we'll see what's going to happen.   
   
 Q.   You looked really fresh out there.   A dramatic difference to the end of last season.   How do you feel?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I feel good.   I've been winning a lot of matches in last period, so it's something that is always welcome when you want to have confidence, when you want to feel good about yourself on the court.   Winning matches is the ultimate goal for every athlete.   
That's what it is in this moment.   I try not to think about the long season that is behind me.   There is still couple of big tournaments, including this one, where I want to do well.   
   
 Q.   Can I have your comments on Roger Federer's 300 week record.   Can you tell how hard this record could be.   Do you think you will copy that?   Do you feel that is his talent or you can do that again now by practice?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, no, it's extraordinary achievement.   There is no doubt about it.   I mean, he's been one of the best, if not the best, player in the world ever.   There is no questioning his results and achievements.   At 31, he's winning Grand Slams.   He's always a favorite for any tournament he plays on.   We don't need to spend words about his quality.   
If somebody will be more successful in that way, I don't know.   We will see.   Tennis is a very demanding sport.   It's an individual sport that requires a lot of traveling, a lot of tournaments and consistent success.   
If we want to achieve what Roger did, we're going to have to play consistently well in the next five years at least.   But obviously every player has different goals, different objectives.   It's difficult to speak in names of different players.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT