CHINA OPEN
October 5, 2012
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/J. Melzer
  6‑1, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese, please.   
   
 Q.   First, congratulations.   We know that the way for you to celebrate success is very much unique.   You use Chinese to write a word which is called De.   Why did you work out a way to celebrate like that?   How long does it for you to work out like this?   How many hours did you take to practice?   Did you notice I had one more stroke in that De Chinese letter?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, it's always nice if you have a great motivation and great support from your fans.   That's something that obviously always inspires me to do something unique and something different, so this time I promised to the fans that were coming and supporting me on my practices that I will try to draw this character on the camera next time.   I held my promise.   
Hopefully they recognize what I wanted to write.   I don't know if I did it right or wrong, but I didn't practice at all, actually.   I actually just once I have seen that sign.  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English.   
   
 Q.   So tonight you won pretty convincingly.   Do you think that there were any weak parts of your game, anything you would have liked you'd do better for maybe next match?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   No, pretty much satisfied with what I have played with tonight and how I performed.   It's as good as I want it to be.  
   
 Q.   What are you planning for Florian Mayer?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I mean, he has won against some good players this week.   I know I'm the favorite in the match and obviously, you know, expected to go to the finals, but, you know, I cannot underestimate any opponent.   
He's there for a reason, so I will try to focus and win that match.   
   
 Q.   You're through to the semifinals.   Do you feel that you have not faced much of a test at all along the way so far?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, I think it has a lot to do with my performance.   You know, I have stepped up at least a level in each match that I have played here.  
I always try to focus my attention to my game.   You know, really, okay, of course depends on the opponent that you have.   You adjust the tactics.   But I am trying to be more aggressive and to have, you know, obviously more efficiency on my serve.   
The serve was great tonight, you know.   It's one of the best serving matches I have had in my career, so that's a positive sign.   I will try to keep on going.  
   
 Q.   Talking about your serve, four aces in one single game, have you ever done that before?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I don't think so.   I cannot recall, so I think it's the first time.   That's why I was very happy.   
   
 Q.   We have the press tennis tournament coming up, and I'm still looking for a doubles partner.   Are you interested?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   When is it?   
   
 Q.   It's Sunday.   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, if I'm still here, and if I'm, you know, having some free time, why not?   What's your side you play on?   
   
 Q.   Whichever side you would prefer, I'll do the other one.   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Okay.   I'll adjust.   (Laughter.)  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT