WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 17, 2012
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/M. Cilic
  6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Pretty comfortable out there?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yeah, it was best match so far here in this tournament.   Came in the right moment, really.   I had the biggest challenge today with Cilic who has been playing well the last couple of months. 
Played a really good match.

Q.   Your next opponent has handed you I think maybe your two toughest losses emotionally speaking in the last year.   Can you tell us a little bit about how you recover from a tough loss mentally and emotionally when the circumstances are bigger like Davis Cup and Olympics?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, look, you know, as a tennis player you kind of get used to losing and, you know, trying to bounce back and recover from that, because our schedule and our sport is that way that we have to be ready to lose every single week, you know, in some way.
But, you know, in all these losses it made me stronger.   And, yes, they are difficult, especially when you're playing for a country and when you're in Olympic Games and we're fighting for bronze medal. 
He won that match.   It happens.   It's a sport.   You lose, you win, but the most important thing is to try to move on and become even better and even stronger from those experiences and try to win.
So tomorrow will be my opportunity to win against him.

Q.   Is the bronze medal match something you put to one side, or is it still very fresh in your mind?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   No, I already put it aside.   As a tennis player I have to do that.

Q.   You're starting to get up in matches again as you were last year with the Olympics and the schedule and everything.   How are you feeling physically at this point compared to last year? 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, again, I have to say for I don't know which time, I'm not comparing last year to this year.   I really don't like to compare it because every year is different.   Every season brings new challenges, new experiences, and just new ambitions really.
Right now in this present moment where I'm trying to be, I feel good.   I have had a lot of matches in the last couple of weeks, so I'm trying to take it really step by step.   Obviously I want to win every match that I play on.   There is no doubt about that.   And then try to get really fit and ready for US Open.

Q.   You said a couple of days ago that you weren't feeling so fresh because of all the tennis.   When you have a win like you did today against Marin, how much does that lift you and make you feel fresh?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, there is a lot concerning your physical situation, obviously, which can be affected by the amount of matches that you play, but also a lot comes from your head, you know, from the way, you know, you're mentally ready or not ready and if you're positive in your mindset or not.
Definitely winning matches can bring you necessary confidence to feel good about yourself on and off the court.   So right now, that is where I am.

Q.   How much do you think about head‑to‑heads?   Like after the match today, the emcee out there mentioned the head‑to‑head with Cilic and with Del Potro as I think 4‑2 or something like that.   Is that something you give a lot of thought to before the match?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, not too much, even though I try always to analyze my opponents and always prepare myself with my team tactically what is the best way to win the match.
We usually, you know, watch videos from the matches that we played at the recent time, so that's all we focus on.

Q.   Your friend Marat Safin is now in Russian Parliament.   Have you ever thought long term of politics?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I haven't thought about that, to be honest.   (Smiling.)
I believe that I can, as an athlete and as somebody that has this privilege to represent his country, you know, still have the opportunity after my career is done to do something for my country aside politics, you know, because I believe there is always a way. 
So we'll see.   Right now during my active career I just want to be focused as a tennis player.

Q.   You played a lot of Davis Cup for Serbia over the years, and of course you're a champion.   Given your schedule last year playing so many matches you didn't play so much; are you looking to play Davis Cup for Serbia going forward?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yes, you know, last two years haven't played much.   Had a tough schedule, but I spoke to my national captain during the Olympic Games.   He asked me if I will be available to play Davis Cup and I said yes. 
I'm really looking forward going back to the team and try to get it another title. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT