LONDON 2012 OLYMPIC GAMES
August 3, 2012
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/N. Djokovic
  7‑5, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Did he just maybe seem a little more motivated than you having the crowd on his side?   Seemed sharper mentally maybe.   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I don't know how it looked from outside, but I had plenty of motivation as well.   
   
 Q.   What happened then toward the end when he seemed to come on and close it out?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, he played better in the important moments.   He served extremely well, used that element in his game efficiently when he needed to.   
I had a lot of break balls in the second set.   Practically every service game I had chance in the second set to make a break, especially the one on 5‑All.   
Yeah, you know, it's a disappointing loss.   But he deserves to be in the finals.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the atmosphere on Centre Court?   Have you ever heard anything like that on a tennis court?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yeah, I experienced great atmospheres.   Something we don't get to experience on individual events.   That's why team competitions, competitions where you represent your country, not yourself, are very exciting for us players to be part of.   
Olympic Games obviously played on Wimbledon, you know, the crowd was on his side, and that was expected.   They gave him a support.   They gave him I think positive energy.   He managed to use that in his favor and win the match.   
   
 Q.   Is there any consolation at this moment to know that your tournament isn't over and you have a shot at a medal?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yeah, it is, definitely.   I will try to wake up tomorrow, you know, compose myself, try to gather all the positive energy, as much as I can.   Motivation is always there, obviously.   Try to repeat the success that I had four years ago.  
   
 Q.   How does this compare to how you felt after the Wimbledon semifinal, knowing you were representing your country this time?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, it's more disappointing now.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT