LONDON 2012 OLYMPIC GAMES
July 29, 2012
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/F. Fognini
  6‑7, 6‑2, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What was your take on that match today?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, I thought I served well from the first to the last moment.   That was actually the best element in my game.   
I made a lot of unforced errors in the first set.   I allowed him to come back and win that set.   I wasn't sharp enough in that moment, but I think that's because I haven't played an official match since Wimbledon.   It took me a little bit of time.   
But the second and third went well, so I'm feeling confident about myself.  
   
 Q.   Was it getting slippery towards the end?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, there's not much you can do about it.   It's the way it is.   I think there's an obvious change in the conditions, the ball bounce, the speed of the court as well.   We were just talking about it.   Most of the players agreed the bounce is lower, that the grass is maybe a little bit thicker and higher than in Wimbledon.   
But, look, that's the way it is.   It's the same for everybody.  
   
 Q.   Is the surface breaking up a little bit as well?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I didn't notice any breaking up.   I think it's the beginning of the week, obviously.   Match courts are different from the practice courts.   That's why it takes a little bit of time to get into it.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel the conditions, you're going to have to be careful?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Look, as you said, towards the late hours and evening it gets a little bit more wet on the court.   It wasn't pleasant, that's for sure.   I was trying to get the short points, go for my shots, which I haven't done in the first set.   
I've done well.   
   
 Q.   How different did it feel playing here compared playing during Wimbledon?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, it's different, obviously.   You have colors, national colors, on your shirt, shorts, shoes.   You're allowed to play in your national colors, which is a significant difference from Wimbledon.   
Obviously, me personally, I do respect Wimbledon and its tradition.   But it was an exception.   I think it was understandable for them to allow to have colors at Wimbledon, because it's Olympic Games, it happens every four years.   
It's a privilege to be playing for your country.   It's quite a different feeling from any other.   I think you have more responsibility on the court, you know, the way you play, the way you carry yourself.  
   
 Q.   Does that give you more pressure?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Just more responsibility, I feel.   But on the other hand, there's not much pressure, to be honest.   Olympic Games, it's just a privilege and an honor and also big motivation to be able to stand on the tennis court and play for your country.   
   
 Q.   Backtrack a couple of days and revisit carrying the flag into the stadium.   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yes, it was an out‑of‑body experience.   It was like in a trance.   I really couldn't remember those five minutes that we were walking around the stadium.   It was incredible.   8,000 people walking into one of the most beautiful stadiums in the world, Olympic Games.   God knows how many people watched.   
It was a huge, huge pleasure and responsibility and honor to be carrying the flag for my country.   Maybe you get to experience that once in your lifetime.   I wanted to make it worth.   I wanted to smile as much as I can, enjoy every second of it.   I believe it was a marvelous experience.   
   
 Q.   You looked like you took the flag out of the thing it's held in because you wanted to wave it around.   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yes, I didn't want to have that.   They told me, If you want to have it, you can.   If you don't want to have it, you're not obliged to have it.   I said, Let me wave it around.  
   
 Q.   Was it heavy?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   It was quite heavy.   But I didn't feel nothing.   It was just a different planet feeling.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT