WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2012
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/V. Troicki
  6‑3, 6‑1, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How much of a relief is it to get on and get the job done when the other guys are dealing with weather problems?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Weather is always an obstacle here.   Good thing is that I was scheduled on the Centre Court which has a roof.   
It is a relief to finish the match on time.   
   
 Q.   Do you think that will be an advantage over your next opponent?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, we're about to see that.   I mean, obviously it's good for me to finish and to have a day of practice tomorrow and get ready for next challenge.   
They say the weather forecast is not really great.   I hope they can finish so we can be on time.   
   
 Q.   How would you describe the difference in playing under the roof?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, there is a difference I think in the speed of the ball that travels through the air.   I think it's a bit slower than what it's played outdoors.   And I talked with Viktor that had his debut under the roof here, and he said it's much slower than his previous matches.   
So for me I kind of got used to it.   I played only the first match outdoors, and then all the three next ones were under the closed roof.   So it's a bit more humid, let's say.   The balls get a big bigger.   Maybe the grass gets more slippery on the back of the court.   
But I still think that they're doing a really good job with arranging the temperature inside.   Because when it gets around 15,000 people in the stands, you know, they're really making sure the grass is not too slippery.   
So it is in a good condition.   
   
 Q.   What do you like most about it?   And if there's anything you dislike about playing under the roof, what would that be?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I find it a bit easier to return the serve.   Obviously when you're playing on grass against a big server like Viktor, under these conditions you can neutralize the serve and get more into the rallies, so that was good to me.   
  
Q.Any dislikes?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   No, it's all good (smiling).   
   
 Q.   To follow up on the first question, how unfair do you think it is to use the roof before the semifinals where everybody could take advantage of it because everybody would be able to play under the roof?   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   It's hard to say really what they should or shouldn't do with the schedule.   
I actually thought when I finished the match that they will put one match to finish or to start on the Centre Court because they had another three hours.   
But obviously they explained me that they couldn't do that because it would be too much trouble with organizing the crowds going out from the Centre Court and the new crowd coming in.   Yeah, it is difficult to organize, obviously, a schedule.   
Yeah, for somebody that plays all tournament outdoors and comes to the Centre Court for the first time and plays indoor in totally different conditions, it's quite a change.   So you need time to adjust.   
   
 Q.   The first set was close, but after that your game was fine‑tuned.   Were you happy the way you played?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yes, I am happy.   You know, at the start I needed some time to get the rhythm and to kind of figure out where he's going to serve because he has a big first serve.   
But I returned really well; I served great.   The baseline game, I was patient and waiting for a chance to be aggressive.   Everything was quite compact, and I'm satisfied.   
   
 Q.   Did you realize that Wimbledon had become an indoor tournament?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   It's been a subject of these last couple of days, obviously.   
   
 Q.   Seriously, considering the situation, if you had been Gasquet and Mayer and in the middle of your match, do you think it makes sense that they didn't put that match on after you considering you'll play the winner?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   As I said before, it's not in my hands, let's say, to say what's right or wrong.   But they have to consider a lot of different things aside just putting a match on the court to finish of the further schedule of the tournament.   
They have to obviously consider the crowd, the TV, tickets, all these things that can influence.   I'm sure they have lots of experience in scheduling, and they're doing a good job.   
   
 Q.   When you saw the schedule for today, were you surprised with rain forecasted that the home player, Andy Murray, wasn't scheduled to be on Centre Court?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, I was happy that I was on the Centre Court because of the weather conditions.   You know, as I say, I cannot say it's right or wrong they didn't put him.   They know what they're doing, I guess.  
   
 Q.   If you were playing in a tournament in Serbia and your opponents got to play on the court, would you be surprised?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   This is a Grand Slam.   I'm not so sure if my country can get a Grand Slam.   
But, yeah, I mean, it's hard to say because it's not only I guess advantage for a British player being here and playing on Wimbledon.   I think ITF, ATP, everybody's making sure that all the players are represented equally.   
So I think maybe that's the case.   
   
 Q.   Is it hard to take pleasure out of beating someone you know so well?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   It's hard to kind of express the emotions, you know, to celebrate or to be angry.   Really it's kind of difficult what to do and how to behave on the court when you're playing one of your best friends really.   
The first match we played is one local tournament when I was eight and he was nine years old.   So we go back a long time.   We won Davis Cup together.   We are very good friends in the private life.   So all these things are playing around with your emotions a little bit.   
But in the end we are professionals.   Doesn't matter who is across the net, you want to win.   
   
 Q.   We know the Olympics is going to be played in the same venue.   How is that for you coming back so quickly?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, we're going to see.   It's a specific unusual situation this year because of the Olympics that we have to come back and play on grass once more in a very important event.   
But I think all of us who are taking a part in the Olympic Games are very excited about it.   Even though it's going to make our schedule a little more difficult and busy.   But, look, that's the way it is.   
Everybody wants to be a part of Olympic Games.   It happens every four years.   You're representing your country.   Me personally, I'm really looking forward to the opening ceremony to see how it's going to play out, how it's going to look, and how the colors are going to look here on the Wimbledon courts.   
You know, I am okay with it.   I've been playing really well the last two years on the grass courts.   I really like these courts.  
   
 Q.   In two days you're going to complete one year as No.1 of the ATP.   What is harder, to reach it for the first time or to keep it for one year?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, you know, it was obviously always my ambition and my career goal to be the best at what I do.   I've been dedicating my whole life to this sport, and I was able to achieve my goals last year in Wimbledon to win my dream tournament and then become No.1.   
But then after that, after everything finished, everything calmed down, I was hungry for more success.   Obviously I'm playing the best tennis of my life at this moment, and I'm trying to stay where I am as much as I can.   
But I'm not thinking about rankings too much, you know, because there is obviously the points drop and all these systems that are involved, these calculations, that is too hard to follow.   
So I just try to focus hard on every tournament, try my best at the major events, and I guess the rankings will follow up.  
   
 Q.   There's so many records that Roger has.   Today he is in the quarterfinals for the 33rd straight time covering more than eight years.   When you hear that, what do you think about what he's done and what that signifies?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   The fact that you just noted is saying enough, you know.   I mean, I don't need to add anything else.   It's incredible achievement from his side.   He's been the most successful tennis player, in the major tournaments especially.   He's won, what, 16 tournaments.   He's still coming back for more.   
He's 30 years old now, but he's still hungry to be No.1 of the world.   He's definitely showing why he is one of the best players ever.   In the matches like today or against Benneteau, when he struggles, he comes up with the best shots and his best game when he needs to.   That's what makes him so tough, this mental strength and experience that he has.   
   
 Q.   You just signed a sponsorship deal with a Japanese brand.   Does that mean you will play in Tokyo instead of Beijing?   They are in the same week.  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Unfortunately not.   Unfortunately not.   I've had an agreement with Beijing tournament, so unfortunately not.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT