ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
October 30, 2019
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. DJOKOVIC/C. Moutet
7-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. It looked like you didn't feel your best out there. What is the situation?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, I didn't feel health-wise -- I don't feel health-wise 100% in the last couple of days, but it is what it is. It's not the first time I didn't play at the really high level. Lots of errors, especially in the first set.
First time against a young player who is talented, very quick. Returns a lot of balls back that usually other guys wouldn't get, he gets it. And he was pumped, and I respect his fighting spirit.
So it was a good match in the end, and I found, I think, a way to win, which in this kind of circumstances, this kind of days, when you're not feeling your best, is important.
Q. Do you expect to feel better tomorrow for the rest of the tournament?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I expect, no. Hope, yes.
Q. Is there pressure of the ranking of ATP for this moment for you in the match?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Pressure?
Q. Pressure.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No. I'm really focusing all my efforts into feeling better and playing better. Because I cannot affect what Rafa does, and I can only affect my own game, my own matches.
So I'm really -- I need to -- I understand that I need to play better and feel better to have a chance to go far in this tournament and, as a result of that, to have a chance to still be in the battle for No. 1.
But, again, it doesn't depend only on me. It depends on him. But my focus is on me.
Q. Were you thinking at any point that you wouldn't play this tournament? That you would withdraw?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No, not really. No. Because I actually, when I came here Friday, I felt okay first couple days. And then the last three days, you know, some things unfortunately caught up with me.
And I'm, you know, health-wise not feeling my best. But, as I said, I actually had quite a few cases where I was already in a tournament and kind of getting better as days go by.
Of course, it affects your energy, your vitality on the court. You know, your alertness, attention, endurance, all these different things are affected. Obviously it's not ideal, but in this kind of circumstances you just have to accept it and do everything that you can to recover.
I guess, you know, you don't really have time now. I'm going to play every day if I'm winning. But I've had cases before where I actually felt pretty bad, but I managed somehow to go through the tournament and even win tournaments.
So I'm hoping and I'm believing I can feel better every day.
Q. You already talk about him but can you say more words about Corentin Moutet? You said a talented young player?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, he's 20 years old. He's definitely one of the Next Gen guys coming up. He didn't have much to lose, obviously, playing in front of his crowd.
He's actually a lucky loser in the tournament, and he played already four matches coming into -- or three matches coming into this match today. So he felt okay and he felt like, you know, he can give his best fight. Have crowd support obviously.
So he did make a good impression on me. I thought he fought well and it was a fun match. He didn't win the match, but he takes definitely the title of best point of the match, you know, the tweener over my head.
Seems like a nice guy. I wish him all the best.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT