U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2011
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/C. Berlocq
  6-0, 6-0, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How hard was this butchery that you did on the court?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Butchery? That's a funny expression. 
 First two sets were ideal. You know, I could not play better. I mean, I was getting a lot of balls back. I was ending the points when I needed to. I was making a lot of winners. My serve was okay. Return was great. 
 I felt fantastic on the court. And there is not much I can say when everything seems fun and seems enjoyable when you're playing such good tennis. 

 Q. Did you start thinking about setting a record or winning love, love, and love? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: You know, I was really trying to focus on each game, really not thinking about the end of the match. But the crowd got involved in the third set. It was great. I mean, we needed that. We needed that in the match. 
 He started playing better. He started making some winners, some good shots. And the crowd felt that, you know, that's the point of the match where they should get energized and get involved in the match. 
 For us players, was more interesting. 

 Q. On any level do you have remorse or empathy or sympathy for an opponent when it's clear you're well in charge? Do you allow those feelings?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, look, you know, we are professionals on the court. We need to do our job obviously, to win. Regardless of who is across the net. I know Carlos off the court. He is a nice guy. Today on the court I had answer for every shot. I mean, I played great. 
 You know, I felt a little bit for him, you know, in a certain stage of the match in the third set where he was trying really hard, you know, to get back into the match. I have to give him credit for fighting. Obviously I was trying to play my best, and I did. On the other hand he has done his best I think at that certain point. And, yeah, that was the whole thing.

 Q. Do you feel at all that the fans were getting short-changed? The first match was so short. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: One of the guys actually on the way out, he said, Hey, listen, I paid 100 bucks. You're staying an hour and a half on the court. That's a lot to pay for a ticket. Give me something so I get back home with a happy face. Give me a racquet or something (laughter). 
 I played good tennis. Obviously I wanted to win. But on the other hand we all try to engage the crowd. I think the crowd got engaged in the third set. It was nice. It was a lot of entertainment kind of long and attractive points, the through-the-leg shot, things like that. He tried to get the crowd on his side, and he did. It was a really good third set. 

 Q. You talked about how well you played, particularly in the first two sets. Can you describe what it feels like to reach a moment of almost feeling like you're playing perfectly. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I have been playing this well for a while this year. I've been playing some matches where I felt that I, you know, could not miss the ball. I tell you, as a tennis player, as any athlete, when you're playing perfectly, everything seems so good and you're so happy, you know, because that's exactly where you want your game to be, you know, at the top, at the highest possible level. 
 You know, we're working hard each day. This is a tournament definitely where I want to perform my best. So I'm not underestimating any opponents. I'm taking seriously every single match I play on, even though I'm expected to win most of the matches, especially in the opening rounds. 
 But, you know, I try not to get relaxed. I try to get my job done as quickly as possible and save the energy for upcoming challenges. 

 Q. Could you look ahead to your third-round match. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, it's Davydenko. It's been a while on the ATP Tour. He's been a top 5 player for a couple years. I think he's underrated, one of those players that the people are not talking about too much. You know, he deserves to get more credit than he really does. 
 He's really a good player. He won many titles in his career. He was in the last four of the major a couple of times. He won against all the top players. So, you know, he definitely cannot be underestimated. 
 If he is on the roll, if he feels the ball well, he can be very dangerous because he plays very fast. But, you know, if I continue on playing this way, I'm confident that I have a good chance.

 Q. You, Mardy, Roger, Tsonga all won today under two hours, not real competitive. Does that surprise you in the second round of a major? Is it how much better you guys are than the rest?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Look, I cannot speak in their names because I don't know how they felt. Look, we top players are expected to win the opening rounds quite comfortably. Dropping a set, you know, is not something that the people like to see with us, with our matches. 
 But, you know, I think all the top players present at this moment are in really good shape. As you mentioned, Roger, Rafa. Mardy is having a great summer. It's going to be really interesting tournament, I think, as the weeks go on. 

 Q. Do you prefer the short matches or a larger match where you get to hit more balls and more competitive?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I've played really a lot of matches this year, so I don't think I lack any time on the court. I just like the matches going this way. 

 Q. You said you know Carlos, are friendly with him, said he's a nice guy. If you were out there against somebody you didn't like, somebody you didn't think was a nice guy... 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I would play the same. Doesn't really matter who is across the net. You always want to win. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT