WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 20, 2011
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/T. Berdych
  7-5 (ret.)

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Talk about your matchup with Andy tomorrow. You guys played the final here a couple years ago and he beat you there. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Uh-huh.

 Q. What do you have to do really well? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I mean, the finals is quite early tomorrow, so I guess physically we need to get good recovery today to get fit for tomorrow.
 Then, you know, who gets the better start of the match I think has a slight advantage.

 Q. How surprised were you by Berdych?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I wasn't because I knew. We know what's going on. I knew before. We have a similar issue there but he has more serious, so it's unfortunate. You know, I hope he recovers well for US Open. 
 But, look, usually these things happen due to the tough schedule and every day playing under tough conditions.

 Q. He seemed to be playing pretty well. Was his serve not as strong as usual or was it close today?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I mean, he served okay first four, five service games, and then you could see that his arm is getting tired, I guess.

 Q. How do you feel physically right now? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, to be honest, not 100% definitely, but I'm getting out there and trying to give my best to win every match I play on. I know that I've felt better last week. 
 But, look, I'm in another final. It's a great achievement. Tomorrow I'll try to get another title.

 Q. What's the problem specifically? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Um, just you know, exhaustion. A little bit ever everything.

 Q. Maria was asked yesterday about your Head promo where you imitated her. She said it's on like Donkey Kong. How did you choose it imitate Maria of all people for that?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Because we have the same racquet company that represents us, so we kind of have done it there. I didn't know what was the whole concept, but we improvised in the end.

 Q. No script? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: You know what, we'll take this to another level. We'll see. She has been answering on my imitations, so we'll see in New York. We'll get some more.

 Q. You've been playing a lot of tennis in the last couple weeks. Having a short match like this can only help you tomorrow, right? Gives you more time to rest? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, sure. Considering the amount of the matches that I've played the whole year and especially last couple weeks, everything I've been through, it's great to have a short match today, short set, and get ready for tomorrow.

 Q. For you, what's the most gratifying thing about this season that you've had to this point? Is it the level of consistency? Is it any of the slams? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Just, you know, the will to win, motivation that keeps me going every day. I mean, that's something that really is really positive in my year so far.
 To be honest, I didn't know what to expect after the run that I had up to Wimbledon and after Wimbledon. Even before that, you know, everybody was talking when this streak will end and things like that, which is, you know, kind of expected when you're winning that much.
 But I wasn't paying attention on that. I was trying to stay committed. That's something that really makes me happy. It's very encouraging for me to be able to have this mental toughness I guess to overcome all these things and still perform well.

 Q. Halfway to a career Grand Slam. Is that an important factor for you, something to accomplish on your to-do list?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, look, I would love to. I think I have the game to play equally well on all surfaces, so this is definitely positive for the future, you know, Grand Slams to come. 

 Q. You've got a lot coming up obviously with the Open, but obviously a lot at stake with Davis Cup. Are you planning to play that the rest of the year?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes. The way things stand right now, yes. It's a semifinal and back home against Argentina. It's a big, big tie, you know. 
 Even though we won last year, but you still look for some more. You want to win more and more. It's a different feeling when you're playing for your country. You know, it's just that team spirit that keeps you going.
 It's different from any other competition really. I enjoy it. I enjoy it very much just being around with the team, and then of course representing your country.

 Q. Do you enjoy playing Andy? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: (Smiling.) I don't enjoy playing anybody. No, I'm kidding. I have a great rivalry with him as well. He has been struggling first couple months after Australian Open with his game, but now I think he's back. He had a couple semifinals of a Grand Slam.
 This is a surface that he plays well on, I think. We played here finals, two tough sets, and he has won that. So he knows what it takes to win a big match, a big tournament. So there is no favorite tomorrow. 

 Q. On your black shirt you have a Serbian flag and a heart that sort of looks like a Eurovision logo. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Uh-huh.

 Q. Is that something intentional? You talk about representing your country, after your tennis career would be over, would that be something that you would want to participate in?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Sure, I got offers for Eurovision and I'll consider that. Maybe I'll perform next couple years. 
 No, I didn't know that this heart looks like Eurovision heart, to be honest. It's just a heart with a Serbian flag. Maybe it looks like that, but there was no intention of kind of having the same one.

 Q. After you won at Wimbledon, there were a bunch of Serbian supporters who were chanting and waving the flag. It almost felt like a World Cup celebration. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Uh-huh. 

 Q. What was that like for you to see that and realize you were winning that for yourself but to see the impact that it had on other people? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: You know, it's individual sport, and I understand that it's me on the court and I win for myself in some ways, but I don't think that I win only for myself. Wherever I show up, next to my name there is Serbian flag. So that means that I represent my country, and I have to take that responsibility. Whenever I win, it's a win for Serbia. 
 So it's great to see that there is Serbian supporters coming and supporting in big numbers wherever we go. Now I think it's more than ever really for tennis players.
 This is great to see, I mean, people coming in national colors and flags and being proud and appreciative of what you do. So to be able to share the success of course is great with them.

 Q. After the Open you mentioned Davis Cup. Are you going to back off a little bit on your schedule the latter part of the year because you've played so much this year and next year you'll have so many points to defend?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Let's keep the focus on this year. I don't want to think about next one. I will see. You know, I do have my schedule set already up to the end of the year, so I'm supposed to play Davis Cup after the Open, and then I'm going to Asia. 
 Let's see how things go. Now I want to prioritize US Open, of course, where I want to do really well. Try to win the title tomorrow and then go slowly. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT