WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2011
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/M. Baghdatis
  6-4, 4-6, 6-3, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. That's got to be about the best match of the tournament so far from a spectator's point of view. What is it about you and Marcos when you get together at Wimbledon?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I think we played two matches, and both of the matches went the distance. I guess I expected, you know, a tough one. He plays really well on grass courts.   
 Considering my game, I don't think I've played on top, played the way I played in the first two rounds. I was moving really bad. I didn't feel great on the court.   
 But all the credit to him for playing well. Couple of points really decided the winner. I think I won because I was hanging in there and fighting. That's obvious. It was an exciting match to be part of.  
  
  Q. You seemed to be able to dig very deep at the early part of the third set there. Seemed like your energy levels had come up.  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: As I said, you know, I'm not tired physically. I just didn't feel good today. I just didn't feel good, and, uhm, my legs weren't working. You have those days.   
 Luckily for me, when I needed to, I played well. You know, he made some unforced errors. You know, I was two sets to one up, and then, again, even though the third set was a struggle for both of us, I kind of mentally had this advantage because I knew I was a set up.   
  
  Q. What was the atmosphere like to be in?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, I mean, for playing here last couple of years, last five years, there were not many moments when I saw practically all stadium on their feet. You know, it was incredible. It was incredible really. It was exciting to see the Centre Court of Wimbledon being so enthusiastic about the match.   
 Me as a player, I have to appreciate that and be happy I was a part of the exciting match.   
  
  Q. What will you do differently, if anything, to prepare for facing a lefty on Monday?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, there is not too much what you can do really. You don't have that much time really to practice with a left-hander.   
 Yes, if you have an opportunity to practice with a left-hander you can use that in your favor, but to prepare a little bit mentally, you know, just to have visually a player that plays with a different hand.   
 Obviously Llodra is a great server. He's been playing fantastic in Wimbledon. I think grass courts are his favorite surface, so it's going to be a tough one.   
 But, yeah, I need to work on my serve, my return, and hopefully it can work well for me.   
  
  Q. There was a time in the second set when frustration got the better of you when you smashed your racquet. Was that a sign of frustration or...   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: It was frustrating, I cannot lie. I did lose my temper a bit. But, you know, I came back. I thought, you know, even though I haven't returned the best, I still had a lot of chances. I was missing from the baseline a lot. So this is something that I was frustrated about.   
 But from the bright side, you know, I hang in there and in the important moments, even in the last game when, you know, I could have lost that service game on 5-4, you know, I didn't. I stayed emotionally stable, believing that I can win, and that's what matters the most.   
  
  Q. In a way do you think it helped you because you got your frustration out and put it behind you?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah. In my case it helps sometimes, even though it doesn't look great (smiling).   
  
  Q. Do you do anything besides relax tomorrow? Do anything for fun? Go to a movie?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, just relaxing with the team, watching movies. Just having a nice Sunday. Hopefully, you know, with the nice weather we can walk around a little bit and recover.   
 Now it's recovery time. I need to be fresh for next challenge.   
  
  Q. What sort of challenges will Michael bring to you on Monday?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I think he's dangerous for anybody if he serves well. He's one of the few I can say serve-and-volley players nowadays. I think the fact that he's lefty gives him a little advantage because there is not much lefties around. He can use the slice serve.   
 He likes grass. You know, he's a very aggressive player. He likes to be on the net. He can be trouble.   
 But I need to return well.   
  
  Q. So will you call John McEnroe, see if he wants to practice with you?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Maybe. If he's willing to change his clothing. Most of the time I see him he's in a suit and the tie. Maybe he's going to change for tomorrow. We'll see.   
  
  Q. Have you played with him before?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I did. I did played with him. He didn't bring me much luck in Paris before that semifinal match. I've played with him many times. He's a great champion. I admire him a lot.   
 You know, anytime I can use the opportunity to hit with him, to have a chat with him, his advices are very useful.   
  
  Q. When you talk about Michael's serving, is it the slice serve on the ad court that's tricky?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes, he likes using that. That's his favorite serve, obviously, the slice. He doesn't go as much for speed. He has a very precise serve, great volleys, great feel. He's one of the best doubles players in the world. He has won Wimbledon in doubles.   
 He's going to take his chances. I'm sure he's going to come to the net. He's not going to change that, for sure.   
  
  Q. You got through the first week, and now you're heading into the second week. All the big guys are still there. Looks like it's going to be a lot to look forward to.   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, a lot to look forward to. There's a lot of great matches, a lot of great players. You know, even though it's kind of expected, especially from top players, to get to the second week, you know, it's for us a great achievement still.   
 We know this is a Grand Slam. We know that everybody plays well here. You have to appreciate each win that you have. I'm just happy to be still in the tournament.   
  
  Q. Back to the racquet thing again.   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: You really liked it (smiling).   
  
  Q. It did show your aggression and your passion for the game as well. Is that something you want to keep going, or will you rein that in next week and not lash out like that?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Look, I'm not going to change who I am. I can work on some things, but, you know, my temper is my temper. My character is my character. You know, you have to try to take the best out of it, not change it.   
  
  Q. Did it go on the first one, or did it take three?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I like to make sure (smiling).   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT