WIMBLEDON
June 23, 2011
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/K. Anderson
  6-3, 6-4, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. What does it take to beat you out there?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I'm really happy with the opening two rounds in Wimbledon. Two straight-set wins. I cannot ask for more, definitely. And I'm physically feeling great on the court.   
 I'm returning really well, which is important. Using more an efficiency of the serve and precision rather than going for the speed.   
 So it's quite tricky conditions these days. It's very strong wind. So to be able to handle this wind in this way, I'm really happy.   
  
  Q. Players on grass take a little while to get used to it. Do you notice any jump in your ease or feeling comfortable on the surface this year compared to other years?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Uhm, mentally I do have a different approach to Wimbledon than I had years before. It's obvious because of the winning streak that I had, the confidence that is very high.   
 It makes it easier, you know, to step on the court because you believe in yourself. You know that you're one of the best players in the world and you know that you can win against anybody.   
 So this is my mindset. I try to step on the court and really, regardless who is across the net, play as best as I can.   
  
  Q. Can you pinpoint any specific turning point in your mindset that helped you change things around?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Nothing in particular really. I think generally I just -- everything came together really, mentally, physically, and game-wise obviously.   
 I matured. I have, what, five, six years professional level behind me, which is quite a lot, and I've learned something from those years.   
  
  Q. You've spoken many times about the respect and admiration you have for Roger Federer. When you think about his durability, what occurs to you? He now has a streak of just about 12 years without missing playing in a major.   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, it's incredible. I mean, I don't know what I can say that nobody said before for him. I mean, he's a great champion.   
  
  Q. Why do you think he's been able to endure in a way that few players ever have in that way?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, he's been very smart with his scheduling obviously. I think his talent is incredible on the court. It looks so easy when he plays. I guess he spends less energy than the other players.   
 He perfected his movement on the court really well. So he knows how to rationally spend energy. He's just an overall player, you know, physically, mentally.  
  
  Q. What do you remember about when he beat Sampras here, if you got to see that match?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Oh, no. It was a long time ago. I think, yeah, it was one of his probably turning points in his career. Then he started winning Grand Slams like they were regular tournaments year after year.   
 Yeah, on the grass, this is where he plays his best tennis. This is definitely now challenged I think from Nadal, especially from some other players, including myself, for the major titles.   
 I think he enjoys it. He looks at it as a big challenge, you know, to overcome the other players and try to win more majors.   
  
  Q. When are we going to see your younger brothers out here playing?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I hope soon. But, okay, it's not up to me. I try to help them in a best possible way, give them advice. But on the other hand, it's not that easy to handle the pressure of having an older brother in top of the tennis, men's tennis.   
 For them, they are still very young, especially Djordje, the youngest one. Mentally it's a big struggle. So he has to fight against a lot of things on the court.   
 Until he matures, it will take time. He's talented, that's for sure. Let's hope he can get on the professional tennis soon.   
  
  Q. There were times today when you seemed particularly exuberant, sheer enjoyment of playing and having good moments, particularly when we thought you were going to take flight after that great rally. You celebrated. You do express yourself. Are there times when you feel more exhilarated than others on the court? Today did you get some particularly good vibrations while you were playing?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I really don't think about others. I think about myself, what I do, how can I improve myself on the court. And, yes, it's true that I like to express myself more positively than negatively, but sometimes negative as well.   
 It's just me. It's my character. I'm very emotional. Obviously I'm learning over the years how to control my emotions. But, you know, everybody's different, I guess.   
  
  Q. I was wondering if you felt particularly, given all the pressure at Wimbledon, you seem to be quite exhilarated by it rather than introspective.   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, look, you know, it again depends the way you accept it, the way you look at it. You know, you can always look at it from the positive side and try to enjoy it, embrace it, or you can look from negative side and absorb this pressure and negative energy.   
 Depends really how you go with it. I always try to go with the brighter side, try to put aside the expectations and pressure because it's always there. You know, if you're a top player, it's always there.   
 It's part of your life, part of your career. But you need to forget about that and do what you need to do and win on the court.   
  
  Q. The fact you've been so relaxed, you've been making friends with a squirrel.   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: You've seen my tweets. It's my best friend now in London, the little squirrel. She's getting closer and closer each day. I'm trying to feed her from my hand. Maybe one day.   
  
  Q. Does she have a name?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No. I will think about that.   
  
  Q. A lot of players appreciate Wimbledon because they can live in the Village with a team. Do you live with your team in a house and cook like Rafa does for the team?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I don't cook for the team. I like to be in kitchen sometimes. But I leave it to the professionals to do their job, to the women.   
  
  Q. Do you live with your whole team there?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, I'm there with the whole team, with my girlfriend, and we have a great time together where it's really enjoyable. I've been staying in the same house for last couple years, usually with my family as well. But they're not able to come this time. Maybe later in the second week if I'm able to, you know, come to the second week.   
  
  Q. If you had no Wimbledon to play, what would you like to do in London, like a tourist or normal person?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, in London? I'm a big admirer of the nature. I think London is, you know, one of the nicest cities in the world concerning nature and parks and green all over. It's beautiful.   
 You know, I would walk around, I guess, try to spend less time in the car, because it's really annoying with the traffic here. I think it's one of the worst for the traffic.   
  
  Q. What is your secret with your return of serve? Do you think this shot can be the key to win the tournament?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, nowadays grass is slower than it used to be, so I think it's more suitable to my style of the game. The ball bounces higher, which makes it a bit more easier to return.   
 And, yes, I returned really well these two matches. This is going to be one of the, you know, important elements in my game in order to be successful.   
 But I need to serve well, as well, because it's not only about the return.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT