ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 2, 2019
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. DJOKOVIC/G. Dimitrov   
7-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  What do you think was the key today and maybe can you describe the end of the tiebreak that seems to have clinched it maybe?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, I mean, you saw it. I mean, it was a very even match. In the first set, especially, I think we both held our service games quite comfortably. Maybe I had a couple of chances and he also had 15-30's. He was probably the better player in the tiebreak.   
And, you know, 5-3 up and 5-4 serving twice and I managed to get returns into play and just make him play extra shot. And, you know, when I was serving for the set, obviously we had, I think, over 35 exchanges from back of the court. Longest point of the tournament, for sure, and it came at the right time.   
Obviously for me, we both really understood the importance of clinching the first set so we could feel a bit more relaxed in the second and start swinging through.   
The beginning of the second I was focused. I did well and managed to break his serve and hold my serve really well towards the end.   
 Q.  Can you describe these two very tough points? Because it took a mental victory at that point?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I mean, you know, I thought he had probably three, four opportunities in that point to come in. He was, I think, the more dominant player in the point. He was attacking. I was kind of trying to fight for better position on the court.   
But it wasn't easy, because he picks up the ball really well, plays really fast and can chip with a slice and play really fast from both ends.   
He was very physical, I think we were both, because we understood that it's an extremely important point. So he was probably taking risk but maybe not too much risk.   
And I just, I guess, managed to play a bit better in the end, and that's what decide it.   
 Q.  Yesterday you said his backhand was kind of his weakness but he improved a lot.  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah.   
 Q.  So what did you prepare to face him today on the tactical level?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I mean, I'm not going to reveal tactics to you, you know, because, I mean, I have to keep it for myself.   
But I try to focus on my game mostly and hoping I can start the way I started yesterday against Tsitsipas, which wasn't the case. You know, I was serving well but wasn't managing to -- I was making mistakes from back of the court in the beginning of the first set.   
But I think serve got me out of trouble in some moments. I think couple of games he had 15-30. His forehand has always been his weapon. And even though he has improved backhand, his forehand is still the better shot. But you're right. He has improved backhand and can hit flat, spin, and slice.   
And I think he's very athletic. Maybe his athletic abilities are you underestimated a little bit, but he's very quick and agile. His talent is obviously an addition to everything that he possesses.   
 Q.  Speaking of tactics, hitting your second serve flat almost like your first serve sometimes, is that part of a new tactic?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I've been doing that throughout my career, to be honest. It's nothing new. I just try to mix it up, not really gave the same serve and same looks to the opponent at all time.   
It's important, especially with a guy like Grigor, when he feels comfortable, when he's on the spot and he hits the ball in his sweet spot, he can hit any shot. So I wanted to make him guess, basically. That's all.   
 Q.  Tomorrow you've got either Rafa or Denis. Thoughts on the match tomorrow on the final?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, I'm looking forward to warm up with a left-handed sparring partner. That's for sure, whoever I get to play.   
Both of them have been playing some great tennis this week. Rafa consistently well. He's very strong, I think, from back of the court and serving really well.   
And Denis, you know, I think he reduced his unforced errors. And his game has always been there, and especially this year he's improved even more. He has played some impressive tennis, yesterday especially against Monfils.   
I'm looking forward to the final. I worked hard to get to this position in other finals. I really like playing in this court and in these conditions.   
Hopefully I will be able to get the best out of myself tomorrow.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  Sixth final, fourth victory. You have a record here. A fifth title in Bercy, what would it represent for you?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: It's a motivation every day. I feel good in such conditions, especially in France, which hosts also the French Open, which is one of the four greatest slams.   
You have the culture of tennis. You have a lot of support from the crowd. You could see the French players had a lot of support.   
I'm motivated. I want to do well tomorrow. I hope to find my best tennis.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT