SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 30, 2011
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/K. Anderson
  6-4, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. If you look at the numbers, it sounds like an easy game, but didn't look an easy one.   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No, it was anything but easy. Almost two-hour match for 6-4, 6-2, I mean, result doesn't show what we had on the court definitely.  
 I mean, I kind of expected him to be aggressive, but he was really going for the shots. He was really putting a lot of pressure on me. A lot. His serve was exceptionally well and hard to read.   
 In the second set I found that momentum, but I went through situations where I faced couple of breakpoints in the first and second set, and I saved them.  
 You know, I was fortunate in those moments. If he broke me, who knows in which direction the match would go.  
  
  Q. But you looked very comfortable and you were enjoying the match. Looked like you were having fun?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: When I was two breaks up in the second set I was comfortable sure, but not before that.   
  
  Q. You play against a guy with a big serve. Is there a special way to prepare for that kind of match?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I had Karlovic serving on my warmup. I was trying to prepare in some ways, but, you know, it's very challenging to play a big server who's very aggressive.   
 And if he serves well and very precise and if he manages to get some free points on his service games, he puts a lot of pressure on your serve, and then you're in trouble.   
 Then you need to try to get as many returns back and get into the rallies. I knew that in the rallies I have a little bit more chance. Some bit slower conditions in the night, so I was kind of relying on that. But he really played well.  
  
  Q. Can you tell me about your next opponent, what you think about?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I think he's on a great run. He's been playing some really good tennis this week, beating high-ranked players, quality players. Today he looked really confident on the court. If he serves well, then he can really beat anybody, I think.   
 It's going to be really unpredictable what's going to happen. Very good match. I look forward to it.  
  
  Q. Your next opponent says that playing during the day and night in this tournament is two completely different tournaments.   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah.  
  
  Q. You've played both during the day and night...   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I think I've played all during the night actually, all four matches. So it's going to be different playing during the day. It's going to be faster, and I think it's a little bit more suitable to him.   
 But, you know, I have a day to recover, to get used to it, to get some practice. I'm sure I'll be fine.  
  
  Q. You had five breakpoints to save. You saved all of them. Isn't it the best proof of your confidence and that your confidence is as high a possible?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, yes. You know, I served well in the moments when I needed to. Okay, he missed some shots, but, you know, I feel that mentally I'm more stable nowadays.   
 Obviously with confidence you're -- you believe in your shots. You're going for some shots, and it comes back to you.  
  
  Q. That's 24 wins in a row going back to last year.   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Uh-huh.  
  
  Q. That must develop its own confidence.  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I mean, you obviously get confidence with 24 wins in a row. I mean, it keeps getting better, of course. But I don't want to be carried away from that. I want to keep on working hard and taking one match at a time.   
 You know, when it stops, it stops, but I'm definitely focusing on the next opponent.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT