SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 27, 2011
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/J. Blake
  6-2, 6-0 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. The matches are going so quickly. I mean, are you getting enough time on the court? Would you rather be tested or not?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No, I'm fine like this. (Smiling.)  
To be honest, you know, you know, I'm getting to every match with a lot of focus, a lot of dedication, a lot of professionalism, trying to not take any opponent for granted, not underestimate any opponent, and be aggressive from the start and try to be in the control the match.  
 Today was great, again. Another great match. Just good that I get the job done quickly.  
  
  Q. Is it hard to stay focused when it's kind of a one-sided match?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No. I mean, look, when things are going well you obviously get more confidence, and with confidence you get more ability to hit shots and more freedom to hit shots.  
 So I am focused. There is no lack of focus, definitely.  
  
  Q. Do you ever start thinking, like, Wow, how long can this go on?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No. To be honest, I'm taking one match at a time and trying to win against the opponent that I have today and not thinking about what happened or what can happen. So staying really professional.  
  
  Q. Isn't he one of your best friends, the guy you play next, Viktor?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes.  
  
  Q. Is he your best friend or one of your best friends?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes, in tennis, off tennis, as well. It's never easy. We've played I think in last six months, if we played on seven tournaments that we played together, out of seven tournaments we played six times.  
  
  Q. Really?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes. And this is probably the seventh time in a row. So it's incredible, really. This year we've played in Australia and Indian Wells and now here. More or less three out of four tournaments we played together.   
 It's never easy to play your friend, but we're both professionals. We both want to win the match.  
  
  Q. How long have you known him? What's your friendship...   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: We have known each other since we were nine. First tournament in my life that I've played, I won my first match and then I lost to him.  
  
  Q. Oh, yeah?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: And he gave me a bagel. It was up to nine games. It was 9-0. I still have video of that match, and we still joke around a little bit.  
 We have been through a lot of things together, and one of the nice experiences was definitely the European Championship that we won together as a team junior under-18, and then of course the Davis Cup last year.  
 So as a team we have been through a lot.  
  
  Q. How big a factor is winning the Davis Cup, do you think?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Huge. The best, biggest achievement ever for me and for all the teammates from Serbia. It's by far the biggest achievement. It's by far the best feeling we have experienced on the court. Nothing I can ever can compare with that, because you get to share the success with your teammates and you get to share it with the whole country. You're representing your country, so it gives a special feeling about it.  
  
  Q. So Davis Cup is bigger than the Australian Open title?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes.   
  
  Q. Is there any part of your game right now that you are' not completely satisfied with?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Dropshots. (Smiling.)  
I'm kidding. No, things are going well. Everything. I have been working really hard on my serve in last ten months, and now it's coming back to me.   
 I have been really trying to use that serve and try to get some free points out of it, and tonight was working really great. I think I'm quite complete player. My game is based obviously on the baseline.   
 I have powerful groundstrokes, but I need that serve so I can get more free points and put a lot of pressure on my opponent. That's where I'm getting lately, so I'm happy with that.  
  
  Q. Are you one of those guys that thinks that they should find a different format for Davis Cup, or are you pleased about how it works?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, look, it's a really difficult discussion about that, because it's been -- this format has been active in tennis for a long time.   
 It is a special competition for all of us and we love representing our countries, but there are things that could be changed. I definitely agree with that.  
 Sometimes it really doesn't fit in our schedule. It's of course pleasure to play for your country, but, you know, for your individual career sometimes it really gets in the way, you know.   
 And after a very long, for example, summer season on clay, on grass, you know, three very exhausting months, and then you have to play a Davis Cup tie, which is really important, so maybe the scheduling of it would be -- you know, scheduling change would be needed.   
 Maybe a different format, as well, you know. Why not? You know. I'm always open for better options for something to change. If it's more suitable for players, why not? Yeah, I definitely agree with that.  
  
  Q. You don't think it would lose something with the home and away, kind of?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, I mean, every change carries its, I guess, advantages and disadvantages. You would always sacrifice something. That's why, you know, you're changing.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT