BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 27, 2010
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. FEDERER/N. Djokovic
  6-1, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Very difficult to face Roger when he's in that type of form. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, he was on top of his game. I think he was playing unbelievable from the first moment. He deserved to win. He was the better player today. 

 Q. Anything at all you could have done to stop him from playing the kind of way he was playing?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, you know, I was 40-15 up in the second game of the first set. Didn't use that. He was on the cruise after. He's hitting the ball well, especially the first balls after his serve. He was playing smart. He was coming in. He didn't give me any time to try to get into the match. You know, in just half an hour, it was already 6-1. 
 Then after I started playing better. But a couple of missed volleys, serve was not really great for me today, especially in the second part of the second set. 
 So, yeah, I didn't have a chance. 

 Q. Do you think this is the best Roger's ever played against you?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: He's been playing really well in this tournament. He's going to tell you better if he's best or not. I think this is definitely one of the best tennis he has played throughout the whole year.

 Q. How did it compare to the US Open semifinal against him?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, to me, he's maybe playing the best tennis in 2010. He's really stepping in, hitting the backhands and forehands all over the court, winners. Every ball kind of listens to him. Comes in, just close to the line. It's very hard. He doesn't give you a lot of free points. It's very hard to play him. He's always on top of you, make pressure, he's very aggressive. That's why he's there. 

 Q. What do you take out of this week as you prepare for the Davis Cup?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, yeah, you know, it's still a big occasion in front of me. It's going to be quite different, obviously, from this tournament. 
 I'm a little bit disappointed to finish this way. But I just have to give all the credit to my opponent today. He was better. I was not playing the way I wanted. I will try to play better next week. 

 Q. You've played both Nadal and Federer in this tournament. Can you compare the way the two are playing? What do you see in the final?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, it's going to be good for the tournament to have them in the finals. You know, tough match. Obviously, if Roger is playing the way he played throughout the whole tournament, he has a good chance. Nadal on the other side has been playing great. They won all four matches. 
 So, yeah, it's going to be interesting. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT