SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 15, 2010
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/G. Garcia-Lopez
  6-2, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You've only dropped 13 games in three matches. Obviously striking the ball well. How did you feel out there today? What do you think about the next match, possibly playing Federer?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Oh, felt great on the court today. Garcia-López has been playing some good tennis in last couple of weeks, beating Nadal in Bangkok. I was aware of his speed on the court. He hits the ball really well from the baseline. He made me work for the points. Even though it looked comfortable at 2-3, I had to really be aware of the speed of the ball that was coming from the other side of the net. 
 Yeah, generally it's a great match for me. It's a great tournament. I keep on doing the good job here. Playing doubles, as well. So quite busy on the court. 
 Whoever I play on the semifinals tomorrow, it's going to be a tough one. Robin and Roger are two different players, obviously. I don't need to spend words about them. Two great players, some of the best players in the world in the last two years. 
 Yeah, I just need to focus on my game. If I play as well as I did these days, I think I have a good chance against both of them. 

 Q. Was there a moment post Wimbledon when suddenly things began to click into place for you? Was there a match that you felt suddenly your form had taken a great turn for the better? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, yeah, it started from Wimbledon on. I had a good tournament there. It just clicked in the head. Something clicked. I knew it's gonna come. I was mentioning that in the first part of the year, that I had an obvious struggles with consistency, some health issues and things like that. But then, you know, just I knew I had to stay dedicated and the results will show up and will come. That's what happened. 

 Q. You probably will have three matches in one day. Do you remember the last time when you were so busy? Has it happened before?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I never played three matches in a day, I think. I still wish somebody to win one match doubles if we gonna play another one. 
 It all depends, to be honest. I don't know. We are not the ones deciding about the schedule. That's just the way it is. The rain made a little trouble here, especially for doubles players. You know, I'm playing with a doubles specialist. I already signed in for doubles on this tournament, so I cannot just pull out like that. It's not professional. So I will keep on playing and see what happens. 

 Q. Why did you play doubles? At this time of the year everyone is saying, I'm tired, I played enough. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I need to play more (laughter). 

 Q. Why doubles at this tournament? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: You know, one of the big reasons is Davis Cup. You know, I didn't play a lot of doubles matches at all in the last 10, 11 months. I just lost with Zimonjic in semifinals against Czech Republic. We played a very bad match there. I figured I need to play at least one, two tournaments before that Davis Cup final. In case that I'm stepping on the court, I need to get some practice. 

 Q. You've been playing really well last couple of weeks. It's late in the season. Looks like you don't have any problem with your energy level, the physical part. I think you matured a lot in the past few years, especially the physical parts. What comments would you make regarding that? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, it's all about work, like anything in your life. As I was saying before, you have to believe in yourself and believe that hard work will pay off. So this is the case with me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT