DAVIS CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP FINAL: FRANCE v SERBIA
December 3, 2010
Novak Djokovic
Bogdan Obradovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/G. Simon
  6-3, 6-1, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Any chance that you'll play doubles tomorrow, too, or no?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, it's open. We'll discuss about that tonight and we'll find the best possible solution and see, you know, what we gonna do about that.   
 Definitely we will try to get a win tomorrow. It's going to be very important for us to get with a 2-1, you know, in the Sunday last two matches. It's the same for them, so...   
 It's very open. It's good that we came back from 1-0 down.  
  
  Q. You feel physically good enough to play?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, I feel okay. I feel good. I felt very comfortable on the court hitting the ball today, especially in the first two and a half sets. No difficulties, good serves.   
 Just waiting for next challenge.   
  
  Q. I would like to know how surprised you are about Tipsarevic, not because he lost, but because 6-1, 6-0? And when you do this (holding up three fingers), does it mean you need three points?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: It's the way we greet each other in Serbia.   
 Tipsarevic didn't play his best definitely today, but I think Monfils played exceptionally well throughout the whole match, especially the first and third.   
 He was more aggressive than usual, serving very high percentage of first serves. So, you know, Janko didn't have solution, and that's it. You know, he was just the better player today.   
  
  Q. Novak, as a player, you're used to obviously being in control of your matches to a large extent. How difficult is it as a player to sit and watch on the sidelines? Is it emotionally draining?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, it's very difficult because it's not in your control. It's not in your hands. You're trying obviously to support and give your best energy to your colleague from the team so he can, you know, be a winner of the match.   
 Yeah, they're rare situations in tennis, in the tennis tour, where you get to sit down and watch somebody aside the court and try to cheer him up to win. Most of the cases, you are the one who is on the court, you know, trying to perform his best.   
 It's 1-All after the first day. I think it's a realistic result and score after the first day. So we are confident that we can pull up the win still.   
  
  Q. Novak, were you surprised with Gilles Simon's tactics, the way he decided to play you today?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I wasn't paying attention too much on his tactics. I was trying to be patient, change the pace, and then take my chances, step in when I need to. And I did everything tactically right in the whole match basically.   
 I was getting a lot of balls back, putting a lot of pressure on his serve, and serving extremely well. So, you know, now it's next challenge to come, and I'm confident I can play well.   
  
  Q. Captain, Tipsarevic, before he said he didn't play for four weeks, so he was always not in the right place. A champion like Djokovic has to say different things. What do you think about a player which says things like this? Do you think it was a right choice to put him on court or not?   
 CAPTAIN OBRADOVIC: Well, the best choice is to have two Novaks, but it's impossible, so that's why I need to choose another player.   
 Well, of course, Janko is a great Davis Cup player. You know last time he won one really big match against Czech Republic. Today Monfils play really good. I want to congratulate him. He played great three sets. I think that second set was almost end the decision, tiebreak. In the case that Janko won that set, match would be completely different.   
 But still it's tennis. I want to congratulate to Novak. He play really good. Three very quick sets for Davis Cup. He saved a lot of energy for maybe tomorrow, maybe day after tomorrow, so it's great.   
  
  Q. Novak, is it as great as you expected to play a Davis Cup final at home?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I think at the end of Janko's match, and my whole match was full arena. It was great to see the people coming and supporting us.   
 Definitely it's advantage for the home team playing in front of their people. To be able to have this support is really relevant at this stage, at this occasion.   
 We just invite everybody to give us even a better support tomorrow and on Sunday because we need that, you know. This competition depends from crowd support and energy that the crowd gives to the player. That's why this competition is very unpredictable and unique, especially at the later stages of the Davis Cup where you play top players. You cannot say you're a favorite in any match. You might be by the results, but Davis Cup gives you a lot of special motivation playing for your nation. You always want to get as much energy from you as much as you can. The crowd gives you extra if you're tired.   
 That's what happened today at the end of the match, you know, when I dropped a little bit the level, started making some mistakes. I got back into the match. So my energy dropped a little bit, but then crowd got me up and I won.   
 So this is why it's important to have them aside.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT