SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 13, 2010
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/I. Ljubicic
  6-3, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. I wanted to ask if there's any fatigue today coming off the victory Monday in Beijing?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No fatigue at all. Actually, it was a great start. Was one of the best tournaments I've had in the year, in Beijing. So definitely I'm feeling confident on the court. I'm trying to keep that going. 

 Q. It seemed like you didn't have too many problems out there today. What was the problem in closing out the first set? Was he playing particularly good defense?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I mean, he's a big server. He always relies on that part in his game. When he needed to, he served well. Yeah, so there were some moments when I wasn't managing to take his serve. 
 But I made that crucial break already on the start of the first set, which helped. And generally I neutralized his serve, which was very important today. I was looking for my chance in the rallies. I played well. 

 Q. Talk about the challenge. Ivan made the ball outside the line, but the judge called it in. What do you think about that? Do you think it was out or on the line?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No, I've lost two challenges by very little in that match. I was happy to win at least one challenge (smiling). 

 Q. Last year for Beijing China Open and Shanghai Masters you played eight matches in 11 days. You said you felt exhausted after that. How do you feel after your first match here in Shanghai physically and mentally?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: All good. I definitely am satisfied with the performance, satisfied with my game, physical state, my condition. I'm playing well, moving well, motivated mentally, and full of energy. I'm hoping that it's going to stay that way. 
 Obviously I'm playing doubles this tournament, something that I'm not kind of got used to doing in such a big events. I usually don't choose playing doubles. But I have chosen here. 
 Got a little bit complicated with the schedule because of the rain and bad weather, so I have to wait for tonight to play an extra doubles match. Maybe it's going to take a little bit of energy. 
 But still, you know, it's the same for everybody. I mean, I'm fit and I'm confident I can be ready for the next challenge. 

 Q. You arrived here late. Now you finished your match first out of the top four players. Are you happy to have an early win today? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I mean, as I said, I'm playing later in doubles. That's why I had to play one of the first matches. 
 I mean, it didn't make any difference to me coming in later because, as I said, I didn't spend that much energy in Beijing. I won without dropping a set the whole tournament. I had two weeks between the Davis Cup semifinals and Beijing tournament, so I had enough time to rest and get ready. 

 Q. Why do you choose to play doubles matches here in Shanghai? Is it preparation for Davis Cup?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, a little bit of everything. I don't play doubles that often. Doubles is important, especially in the Davis Cup. You know, to get a little practice because it might be an option of me playing a doubles match in the finals. So I just wanted to get a little bit of doubles hours on the court. 

 Q. Last week in Beijing you spoke highly about one of the youngsters who practiced with you. How do you think about the Chinese male youngsters performance here?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I haven't seen Chinese players here playing. I just saw a little bit of the match Ljubicic played yesterday with the Chinese youngster. He played really well. 
 I was surprised to see how many players are on the main draw from China. It's good, you know. Finally the country is getting some success and some players in the men's tennis. You deserve that because the country is very much dedicated to the sport, to the tennis, and they invest a lot in the tennis players. 
 Last week in Beijing, I practiced many times with a 15-year-old, and there are a couple of other 15-, 16-year-olds, so tall, hitting the ball very well. 
 You have the talent, you have the players. It's just now, you know, it's hard work that is in front of them. 

 Q. Obviously a Davis Cup semifinal win is a great victory for your country. You played Davis Cup one match after the US Open. Of course you were very tired. Can you talk through the Davis Cup semifinal for us now, your experience with your team. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Davis Cup is a very unique competition where you get to feel the team spirit that you don't get to feel that often. We are individuals, so we mostly perform for ourselves. 
 In Davis Cup, it's about the team, it's about supporting each other, winning for your country. That's why it's a big pleasure and an honor for me and for all my teammates playing in this competition. It's why we always try to give, you know, the last piece of energy for our country. 
 It's been the best Davis Cup year ever in the history of Serbian tennis. We get to play finals at home. We hope that we'll have a full arena of support. It's very important. We are playing against France, who has much more success and tradition in this competition than us. Great players, but we're confident we can pull out the win. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT