SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 12, 2010
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Novak. 

 Q. The boring first question. Obviously a great week last week. How do you feel physically and emotionally after that coming into yet another Masters, big tournament? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, must be satisfying definitely winning another event as big as is Beijing. I mean, if you just look at the draw, I must tell you that it's been extremely strong draw with a lot of top 20 players playing in that event. 
 So to be able to come up with a trophy from that event, without dropping a set, is a big success. Right now emotionally I'm confident, I'm happy, and looking forward to upcoming challenges. 
 Definitely I will do my best to get as far as I can in this week. 

 Q. You said you enjoy challenges. Do you think it's a disadvantage that you came here late or maybe you have a boost in your confidence by winning Beijing? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I don't think it's going to be a big disadvantage because I have experienced that before: winning one week and then getting on to the tournament just the week after. I did that last year when I won Beijing and played semifinals here. I felt good. So there is no reason for me to believe that it's gonna be a disadvantage in my game. 
 To be honest, as I said, I feel good mentally and physically. I didn't spend that much energy in Beijing. I'm sure I'll be fit and ready. 

 Q. Our photographer is sick but came here because of you. Can you tell her something? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, thank you for coming. I'm flattered. Appreciate that. 

 Q. We know there was a heavy rain delay in the China Open. It's about to rain in Shanghai. What do you expect, rain or no rain? You won in Beijing after the rain delay. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I'm not the weatherman. I'm not working for the forecast. I can't really say what am I expecting. 
 I'm expecting to play, to be honest. And the weather is taken care of by God. He's going to give us some good weather, I hope. 

 Q. After Roger got married and had the twin daughters, he stays down. Is this a suggestion to you that you should get married when you're retired?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Thank you for the suggestion. I'll think about it (laughter). 

 Q. Rafa obviously has a really hotspot right now winning the US Open and Tokyo. He said the main goal for him for the rest of the season is to win the finals in London. Do you think the other players at this stage can stop him winning again almost everything?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Are you sure he said that (smiling)? 

 Q. Yes. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Okay, if you say so. 
 He's definitely the best in the world. He has proven that by winning three out of four Grand Slams, seven or eight titles this year. He deserves to be the No. 1 of the world. 
 We are all trying to play as best as we can and eventually challenge him if we have opportunity. Obviously, it's many more tournaments to come up to the end of the year. World Tour Finals in London is the most important event for me next to Davis Cup final, which is very special at this stage because, you know, you're not playing Davis Cup final every year. My country is really living for that weekend. That's one of my priorities, to try to win the title there. 

 Q. One thing that Rafael definitely did say is he would like to see some changes to the calendar. I know it's a very deep and long subject, but you are on the council. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Not anymore. 

 Q. Maybe if you could give us a short impression, if you could wave a magic wand and get the calendar you would like, I know it's tough, but what would be your starting point and what would you hope to end that?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Let's not get into the details too much. You don't want to hear if I wave with a magic wand what would happen. I would make some radical changes. But it's okay. 
 Anyway, it's a very complicated and sensitive task. You have to satisfy and consider two sides: tournaments and players, obviously. It's not easy because players have their own demands, and tournaments have their own demands. So to make the fine line between those two parties is what we are trying to do. 
 Well, even though I'm not on the council, I'm still trying to participate in some decision making. It's good that we have top players leading the council. It's good that you have most of the top players involved in those questions, in those changes, because there's something that needs to be done. 
 We need to have the shorter schedule. That's the clear point about the last couple of years. You see more and more players, top players, getting injured. That's not what this sport wants. 
 I think ATP leadership right now is doing a good job. We are finding solutions. But it takes time. So probably the 2012 is the earliest that we can get some changes, some shorter schedule. 
 But, you know, as I said, it's not the simplest thing in the world. 

 Q. After you won your first Grand Slam, it seems you lost yourself for a long time. One month ago you reached the US Open final, but you lost to Rafa. I want to know, are you really ready to win your second Grand Slam title? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I'm ready. Definitely, I am. For the last two years I've been ready. 
 You know, if the good day comes, it comes. I had the opportunity against Rafa in New York. But he was just too good in that match. In the whole tournament he was playing the best tennis I've seen him play on the hard courts. So he deserved to be a champion there. 
 I'm still only 23, so I have many years more to come. Hopefully if I'm physically and emotionally ready, you know, if I work hard, if I'm consistent throughout the whole year, I'm sure I'm gonna get another opportunity. I'll make sure I'll use it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT