CHINA OPEN
October 9, 2010
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/J. Isner
  7-6, 6-2

 THE INTERPRETER: Questions, please. 

 Q. Compared to the last time you competed with John Isner, do you feel any difference?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: We had played only once in Davis Cup, five sets. It was the first time I played him, so I had a tough time reading his serve. 
 Here I felt more comfortable returning, especially in that second set. You know, if you start the match with a break down and playing against one of the best servers in the game, makes you really frustrated. You don't get a lot of chances, but surprisingly, I returned and played well on these return games and had a lot of opportunities throughout the whole match and used them when I needed to. Just happy to get through this one. 

 Q. Statisticians tell us that with the win you qualify for London. Is that good to have that out of your mind going into the final and then into Shanghai?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, it's definitely a relief and great to hear that news. It's four consecutive years, so this is a crown for my achievements, you know, and I'm definitely satisfied with my consistency on the tour. I have had lots of success in last three, four years, so I think, you know, I deserve to be there. 
 Of course I will do my best to get even further than I did last year to try to pass the group stage, but there's still a lot of time up to the finals in London. Still have some important events to go. 

 Q. At the end of the match you shouted something into the audience, and just out of curiosity, what was it that you shouted?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: It was a song that I was singing. I think you noticed there was a Serbian song played on the... So, yeah, that was it. 

 Q. What was the song? What were the words?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Are you from Reuters? 

 Q. Yes. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No comment for you. 

 Q. How difficult is it when you're torn between the need to qualify for something or the desire to qualify for something and also the need to conserve energy at the same time? It's a very difficult sort of puzzle to work out, isn't it, when you're playing out there?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Oh, well, you know, it's not the easiest thing playing against a guy who serves 205, 210 kilometers per hour and average the first serves in with that much precision. 
 I definitely knew that the key of today's match was to return well, and yet again to get him into the longer rallies, because that's where my chance is. I didn't allow him to get into the court, get to the net, take the control.
 So I was trying to, you know, play aggressive from the baseline as much as I can. I did. You know, I won in the straight sets. I have enough energy for the final. Definitely for upcoming week I feel fresh, I feel confident. Just keep on going. 

 Q. Your next opponent in the final would be Ljubicic or Ferrer. I won't ask you to choose. Just share some thoughts on them as a player, Ljubicic or Ferrer. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Look, you know, Ljubicic showed some great quality last night against Murray, and throughout the whole tournament he's been winning against good players. If he serves well, he can be as good as to beat anybody on this court, so he's very dangerous.
 The other hand you have David Ferrer who has been so consistent in last couple of years, and now he's playing much better on the hard courts. Obviously his most preferred surface is clay, but, you know, he's just great, you know. He doesn't give you a lot of unforced errors, so it's interesting match tonight. 
 I don't have any preference, to be honest. Regardless who I play, I just need to perform the game that I perform throughout the whole tournament and think I have a good chance. 

 Q. I noticed that this morning when you were practicing, your training partner was wearing the same shirt as John did in the game. Was he asked to do so in order to simulate your game, or it's just a coincidence?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Actually, yes. I mean, he wore that shirt from the start of the tournament, and the socks were the same, as well, because when John serves and jumps, you know, I see the way his socks are standing where he's gonna serve, so that's what I did with my -- I mean, come on. (Laughter.)
 No, there's nothing true about that. I mean, I'm practicing with a very promising young talent from China. He's 15 years old. He's taller than me. He's a great player. 
 I just got told from my coach that he moved his flight - he was supposed to fly before the finals tomorrow - so he can warm me up tomorrow for the finals. Great guy. I mean, you guys have a very nice future in front of you in tennis as far as I see. I mean, next to him, there is couple of more juniors that are playing some great tennis. I have been practicing with them throughout this week, and, you know, if they continue like this, you're gonna have top 10 player in the future, for sure. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT