SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 16, 2010
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/N. Djokovic
  7-5, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How do you feel and where do you think it went wrong?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I don't know. It was a very intensive first set and I didn't use the chances that I had. When he got his first or second breakpoint, he used it and finished off the set 7-5.   
 The start of the second set, I lost my focus a little bit, my energy dropped. Yeah, in a blink of the eye, I was two breaks down with 4-1. So it was very hard to get back from that situation.   
 Yeah, I'm just disappointed a little bit because I think I've played quite well in the first set. He played some great shots when he needed to. So, you know, he deserved to win.   
  
  Q. How disappointed are you in the context of how you've been playing lately?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, I mean, overall these two weeks have been great for me. I won a tournament, Beijing. Reached semis and repeated the same success from 2009. So definitely I must be satisfied.   
 But right now I'm just under impression of, you know, losing the match. Of course, I'm a little bit disappointed about that. But tomorrow is a new day and I must get ready for our upcoming indoor season.   
  
  Q. Did you feel disappointed in the second set because you seemed to be hitting the ball harder, but Roger was putting it back all the time?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, I mean, I made some unforced errors. I gave him a chance to attack me, and he did.   
  
  Q. How much of a burden was a doubles tournament for you? Did you lose too much energy?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I don't think so. I think I didn't spend that much energy on the doubles. I felt fresh today. It's just, you know, as I said, end of the first set, beginning of the second, my energy dropped a little bit. Because of the exhausting first set, it went one hour, I felt like I was starting to play better when I broke him back, but it was too late.   
  
  Q. You lose the No. 2 ranking to Roger. What does that mean to you?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, look, we exchanged that spot this year a couple times already. So it's not a big deal. I mean, as I said, I'm happy with the way I am playing at this moment. I just hope that I will continue that way. If I continue playing this well, if I continue making good results, I'm sure I will get another chance to get back to No. 2.   
  
  Q. The main goal now is Davis Cup or...   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: There's still a lot of events to come. Yeah, Davis Cup is probably the number one priority for me this year next to the London finals.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT