SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 14, 2010
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/R. Gasquet
  6-1, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Novak.  
  
  Q. Richard Gasquet said he was exhausted by the two matches of yesterday. Maybe it was a little bit easier for you today?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I mean, I don't know how he felt, and I didn't care. I was only trying to focus on my game. I did really well from the start. I put pressure on him. I was aggressive. I knew that I have to be aggressive. I didn't give him chance to come back to the match.  
 I definitely played well in all elements in the game.  
  
  Q. Are you feeling more and more confident that this could be back-to-back titles two weeks in a row?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I'm taking one match at a time. I'm not really thinking about the final day.  
 The fact is that I'm feeling good on the court. I'm hitting the ball and playing better and better every day. So I'm just hoping that it's going to stay that way in the upcoming rounds.  
  
  Q. Your last two matches were played under the roof. It's quite different from Beijing. Do you feel anything strange or do you feel more comfortable playing indoors instead of outdoors?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, we all know that there have been a lot of difficulties with the weather and the schedule has been changed many times. So practically now I'm going to have to play doubles later on against Tsonga, who is still playing singles now. Whoever wins of both of us will have to play another doubles match tonight. It's really a mess.  
 But luckily for this tournament at least they have center court closed and they can play some matches in the day. It's a little bit different conditions. It's a bit slower and more humid. But I'm finding the way to play in these conditions.  
  
  Q. Five days before you were the champion in Beijing. Do you want another one here?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Sure.  
  
  Q. In China you have many young girlfriends, including my girlfriend.  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Sorry, man, I didn't mean to insult you (laughter). I don't want to step on the wrong foot.  
  
  Q. What do you think about the fans in China?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: About your girlfriend I will not comment (smiling). But about the Chinese tennis fans, they are just great. Rarely, rarely you get to feel and experience what you experience here with the fans. They're waiting in front of the hotel the whole day just to have signature of you and make some pictures and give you presents. It's every day like this. It's every year. I've been coming back here three, four years in a row. Every time they keep on surprising me.  
 They're just great. We respect that because they're important to us, yeah.  
  
  Q. We are interested about the dragon on your sports suit. In China, dragon means power. To you, what's the meaning of this dragon?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, you just said the meaning. Sergio Tacchini, even though it's Italian company, it's owned by a Chinese businessman. So there is some connection to that, as well.  
 I think the designers did a great job. I got a lot of compliments on the wear lately. I'm just happy. I think it's very nice.  
  
  Q. You know that there has been a very bad incident provoked by soccer, Serbian fans in a game. What do you think about that? Is there a risk one of those guys could make trouble in the Davis Cup final?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, look, you know, first of all there is a different crowd coming to tennis and football. Second of all, it's really not nice to see definitely. Especially for the people coming from Serbia, we really didn't like the picture that we saw that day.  
 As an athlete, I definitely felt bad for the players because I know they wanted to play badly that game, and it was an important game. But it wasn't in their hands, it wasn't in their power.  
 In the end, I definitely don't support violence, and neither do anybody, I'm sure, in sport. So we don't want to see that.  
  
  Q. If you rank your game on each kind of surface, can we say that playing indoors suits your game better?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I have had big success in indoor events over these years, especially in 2009. So I'm continuing to play well there. So there must be something that is suitable to my game, yeah.  
  
  Q. Do you remember the conversation about the beard in Beijing? That's why you didn't shave your beard here in Shanghai?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I didn't have time (smiling). My girlfriend is not here, so she is not checking on me, you know.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT