ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
October 28, 2019
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  In the order of your priorities, to be number one at the end of the season, where do you put? As the first, the second priority?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I'm not thinking about it in that way. But I, you know, of course am in the race for No. 1 with Rafa. He's in a much better position, but I hope I can do well in this tournament.   
I've historically played really well indoors in Paris and also London, but it doesn't depend on me. So, you know, I cannot really focus really too much on what he is doing or other players. I'll try to kind of get the most out of my performances and see where it takes me.   
In order to have a chance, you know, for year-end No. 1, I have to win all of my matches till the end of the season, which I'm aware of. But, again, also, you know, it depends on him, how he does.   
So these kind of calculations are never really great for mentality of a player, and they take away vital energy that you need to use for your performance, so I prefer not really think about it too much.   
 Q.  You practiced with Rafa the other day and I can't remember it ever happened during competition. So I wonder how did it go along, and what kind of message is it? Because it's rare to see two top rivals hitting together at any sport, I want to say.  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I enjoyed it, to be honest. It was great. It was a lot of fun. It was very intense and competitive, as you can imagine, obviously, but in a very respectful way.   
And, you know, we played a couple of days before that, an exhibition charity match in Kazakhstan. Also, we got to spend some time together. And obviously we are rivals but that doesn't prevent us from being respectful and treating each other in the right way and our teams as well.   
I have always had that kind of relationship with Rafa. And regardless of which course our careers went to and how tense maybe sometimes rivalries were, but we always had respect for each other.   
It was actually very unusual because we haven't practiced for years. And, yeah, it was strange because, you know, when I see him across the net, that means I'm playing him probably semifinals or finals of a big event, but this time it was a practice session. But nevertheless, the intensity was like a match.   
 Q.  I don't know if you saw it, but Andy Murray won Antwerp obviously a week ago. I'm wondering, after everything he's been through, what your reaction to that was and if you think he could be a sort of dangerous player again next year?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I'll answer your second question first: I sincerely hope so. I hope that he can be in contention for the top spot because tennis would profit from that and benefit. Because we know how big of a legacy he left behind and he is still creating for himself.   
So knowing what he has been through in the last three years, it was really nice to see him win a title after a long time. And only he knows the adversities that he had to face physically but also mentally.   
I know the discipline and the ethics that he has and how hardworking he is, so he definitely deserves it. And I would definitely wish him all the best.   
 Q.  How do you feel physically coming here? How is the left shoulder feeling or other sensations regarding the speed of the court or anything?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: As I said in a previous answer, I really historically play well indoors, so I'm looking forward to play in Paris. I have played finals here last year. I like the conditions.   
Physically I'm feeling well. I haven't had any left shoulder pain or any major concerns physically in the last three, four weeks basically. So my preparation has been going well.   
And I'm just hoping I can kick off this tournament in best possible way.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT