ROGERS CUP MEN
August 13, 2010
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/J. Chardy
  6-2, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. After I think two rounds ago you had a pretty tough one in the heat. Yesterday seemed to be pretty routine. Today again pretty routine. What do you attribute your success to today?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, looks like I'm lifting my level of the game after every match, which is great.
 I felt very comfortable in the court today. I waited all day to play a match and wasn't easy in the locker room, you know, waiting that match before us for quite some time. But, you know, as soon as I stepped on the court, I felt the ball right, served a very high percentage of the first serves in, and basically put a lot of pressure on his service games because I was getting a lot of returns back. That was, well, one of the keys of victory.

 Q. You seemed to be getting a little bit of a look at your left shoulder area there in the second set. What was going on? Is that something that might trouble you moving forward?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, you know, I don't think it's gonna bother me eventually thinking about having a bigger injury or something like that.
 It's just a minor problem that I have in these couple of days, and, you know, physio just kind of took care of it in a couple of minutes of medical timeout, and then I felt better.

 Q. What's your mentality going into the semifinals with Federer tomorrow?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, it has to be a positive mentality; otherwise I wouldn't be looking to get on the court, you know. I played so many times with Federer. Most of the matches we have played was on this surface, and there's not much to talk about. He's a big champion and he showed why he's one of the best players in the world.
 Today he pulled up a great win even though he was down 5-2 in the third. He has big support of the crowd here. He plays well throughout the whole week. It's gonna be a tough one, but, you know, semifinals, you never know what's gonna happen.

 Q. No smashed racquets today, none yesterday?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No reason.

 Q. I'm a little disappointed. Are you gonna make up for it tomorrow, three or four?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I don't know. I'll see. I hope I will not put myself in the position of breaking racquets.

 Q. Last time you played Roger I believe was in Basel. Maybe a similar situation. The crowd support obviously is going to be in his favor. What do you remember from that match, and what do you think is the key for this match?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I remember playing really good tennis in that match and winning against Roger in his hometown and was a big achievement, and I'm just -- I was playing really well in that finals.
 He always, you know, kind of lifts up his form in the last couple of rounds of the tournament, and he has been doing that for many years already.
 So he's always, you know, very loose when he gets into the court, and he puts a lot of pressure on opponent, very aggressive, and so I guess I have to really try to be focused from the start and be patient and wait for my chances and then use them.

 Q. I have to ask, Roger and Rafa have been getting some buzz this week for their pink T-shirts they have been wearing. Is that a look maybe you could pull off in the future?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I have no comment on that, because I am wearing yellow, so it's kind of same position. (Smiling.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT