U.S. OPEN
September 4, 2010
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/J. Blake
  6-1, 7-6, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. It looked like you played with a lot of poise. He had the breakpoints early. In the tiebreak he had a chance. What are you most satisfied with how you played tonight?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I think definitely the focus today was great. Just the patience in this weather, finding the right way to play in the certain moments.   
 It's a big mental struggle when you have such a strong wind to find a way how to try to play good tennis, especially if you have somebody across the net who is so aggressive, taking everything early and playing a risky game.   
 So I think I was serving very well. It was a very high percentage of the first serves in. Good accuracy, efficiency. It was very important in these conditions.   
  
  Q. You've played Mardy. You know him well. What kind of match do you expect?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, we played on a couple of different surfaces. We played in Wimbledon, as well. We had a tough one here a couple years back in US Open.   
 I don't know. I think he's playing maybe his best tennis at this moment. He's moving really well. He's serving as good as he served always. He has a lot of talent. He's recognizing the moment, coming to the net. He has a lot of variety in the game.   
 I guess I have to be on the top of my game to be able to win.   
  
  Q. Have you watched Federer's commercial where he tried to hit a ball off somebody's head?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No. They asked me already. I didn't.   
  
  Q. Do you believe it's possible?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I don't know. It's hard to say. I don't know. If he did it, I mean, have to be very lucky. You know, the odds are not really big, you know, to hit a bottle.   
  
  Q. Do you dare to be somebody's target?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No, I'm doing it every day, day-to-day basis. Kind of serving to my coach's hat, trying to put an apple out of his head (laughter).   
 No.   
  
  Q. How do you feel physically after all your long matches?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No, physically I'm fit. I'm fine. I've been setting my form for this tournament. I was focusing on this tournament, as most of the players, because we all want to perform our best and be ready 100% physically and mentally to perform our best on US Open.   
 Luckily I came over that five-setter, and then I had some difficulties there with the heat, not specifically with the physical condition. So I feel okay. I know tonight I had more of the mental struggle to kind of find the rhythm on this wind. I'm sure I'll be fit for continuation of the tournament.   
  
  Q. Unusual question for you: What do you think about Russian tennis, and what do you think about Russian success of the last couple of years? Do you have any Russian friends on the tour?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Sure. You know, I'm good with a lot of Russian players, with Safin. We shared the same agent over the years. I practiced with him a lot when I got to the professional stage. He was one of my idols actually. He's a fantastic player.   
 I mean, Russia has such a long tradition, especially in woman's tennis. It's amazing how many girls every year -- you see some new girls from Russia coming up and doing well. Now you have two playing on center court.   
 You shouldn't worry about the success of Russian tennis, definitely.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT