WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2010
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/N. Djokovic
  6-3, 7-6, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Novak Djokovic for you. 

 Q. What went wrong for you out there today? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I want to congratulate him. He played a great match and a great tournament. He's just a better player today on the court. 
 I guess when I had the opportunities, I didn't use them. In important moments I served some double-faults. I was a little bit unfortunate in some points. 
 But definitely didn't take my chances and he used it, so he deserved to win. 

 Q. Will those double-faults play on your mind as you go home, do you think?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I don't know. It's not just double-faults. It's just I wasn't going for the shots too much. You know, I was kind of waiting for him to make mistake. I was wrong. 

 Q. Were you actually nervous or was there something about the thought of getting to the final?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, you know, everybody's nervous a little bit. It's a lot of importance in the semifinals of Wimbledon. So, yes, I was nervous. You know, there is no question about it. 
 But still, you know, I wasn't managing to find the rhythm that I had in the last couple matches. 

 Q. Talk to us about that point at 5-6 where you put the lob in and the line judge called it out. Were you quite put off by that call?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No. I mean, look, I continued on. I thought at that moment the referee was wrong. I continued on playing. Yeah, maybe it would be a turning point if I won that second-set tiebreaker. 
 Who knows, maybe I will turn the match around. But bad luck. 

 Q. Did he give you a Code of Conduct warning at the changeover?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah.

 Q. For racquet abuse?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah.

 Q. Must be frustrating for you. You were so close and it's not happened for you today. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, it is. You know, nobody likes losing. Neither do I. 
 But the fact of the matter is that I didn't deserve to win today, you know. It's just as simple as that. I congratulate my opponent because he was a better player. 
 You know, I have to move on. I hope next time, if I have this opportunity, I'll play better. 

 Q. Maybe wasn't so much attention on your side of the semifinals as obviously the British guy. Do you think Berdych can sneak through and take the title on Sunday?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: He has chances. If he plays the way he played against me and Federer, definitely. I mean, you never know what's gonna happen in the finals. He has a big serve. He has a good game for grass court. 

 Q. Has he changed since the last time you played over a year ago? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, they're different circumstances. We never played in a Grand Slam, so we never played a best-of-five match.
 Since then he has improved a lot. I think he's more patient player. He's not making as many unforced errors anymore. He moves better. Still the serve is there. 
 He just improved his game and results are coming, obviously. 

 Q. What are you going to do now? You have a break or something? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I have to play Davis Cup next weekend, so... No break for me still. 

 Q. Any kind of breathing trouble you had in the last round today? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I don't know. I didn't feel, to be honest -- didn't feel great on the court. I don't know why. In that third set I kind of dropped the energy level and wasn't managing to step it up and be aggressive. 
 Maybe because I was so much far behind the baseline and just kind of defending myself. Wrong tactics, I guess. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT