WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 18, 2010
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/V. Troicki
  6-3, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Your first serve percentage kind of dipped from the first to second set. Was that maybe his level increasing a little bit or did you have a slight drop off there?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, I did have a decrease of the level in the second set. It was a very ugly set with a lot of unforced errors on both sides, a lot of double faults.   
 I guess it turned around in this second game when I lost my serve. Just I felt uncomfortable after that. I was struggling to hit the ball really well. You know, in the important moments when I need to do use break balls, I did. I think it was four out of four used break balls.   
 You know, it's good to go through in straight sets.  
  
  Q. Is it possible to win one of these hardcourt tournaments without a really big serve?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I don't think so. Only if you're Nadal. If you are very fit. I mean, you need to have a decent serve, which is gonna give you here and there some free points, and especially on a court like this which is quite faster than the one we played on in the last week.   
  
  Q. Is your serve as hard as it used to be before you made whatever changes you made?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I mean, it's hard to say. It really kind of gets up and down. So it's not what I want, but I'm slowly getting on the old serve that I had. I had a good motion, and when I won Grand Slam I was serving well really well, serving around 200 kilometers per hour on average, which was great, and a lot of precision.   
 These days I'm struggling a little bit, but, you know, it's a mental thing. So it's gonna get to me sooner or later.   
  
  Q. You're return game looked really strong today. Was that a particular point of emphasis for you coming into the match, where you knew you had to return well?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, he's a big server, and he relies on that element in his game. So return was really crucial today.   
  
  Q. I asked you yesterday a couple times about respiratory problems. The McEnroes were just on a telecast talking about who they like in the US Open. One of them mentioned you, but then said, Of course, he has that respiratory issue. So you don't have a respiratory problem?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: We talked about it yesterday. I mean, I've told that you I do react a little bit different than other players. I do have some respiratory problems depending on conditions I play in.  
 But, you know, you got to try to overcome that. I'm not only player who has issues out there.  
  
  Q. But it's just connected to heat is what I'm trying to get at, it's not a regular walking around thing?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, I guess so, and allergies.  
  
  Q. How were the conditions out there today? Do you think that may have contributed to the second set being so much tighter?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Might be, but conditions were okay. It was not too hot.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT