ROGERS CUP MEN
August 12, 2010
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/V. Hanescu
  6-3, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Are you still feeling your last Davis Cup experience good or bad? Are you still feeling it at all?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No, I just -- yeah, I do have great memories from that Davis Cup tie in Croatia, but only good ones, because I have played two very good matches, especially the one on Sunday which was the deciding one, and it's a big success for my country. So I really look forward to the next semifinal Davis Cup tie, which is in Belgrade.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about your match today? It seemed a lot more routine than yesterday. I'm sure the weather played a part in that for you.   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, it's fun for me, you know, playing some matches in Grandstand, some other courts next to the center court. You know, you feel the crowd more. They're closer to you.   
 So couple situations during the match which were quite funny. The crowd was really into the match. I enjoyed it. The weather was not as bad as it was yesterday, so it made my life a little bit easier.  
 Overall performance was great. I have to be happy about it. Now I'm playing a night match tomorrow against a player who made some upsets in this tournament, so, no, no reason to underestimate my opponent because he's a big server, big hitter. It's gonna be a tough one, but if I continue playing well like I did today, I have a good chance.  
  
  Q. I'm just wondering if you have talked to Ana Ivanovic with what's going on with her at the Rogers Cup in Montreal. She feels that she was insulted by the tournament director, had her feelings hurt, wasn't included as a wildcard entrant, and then now they've extended an invitation to her and then she's declined. Have you talked to her at all? Do you understand what she is going through maybe at this time?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No, I haven't spoken to her actually in a couple weeks, so maybe -- I didn't hear for that story, to be honest. I'm following her results in Cincinnati. I see that she's doing well, and I'm happy for her, but I don't know anything about Montreal.   
 It's too bad, you know, because she -- she deserves, I think she deserves the invitation because she's former No. 1 of the world, and she attracts most of the fans. Actually, she's one of the top -- one of the couple of players in women's tennis that actually gets the fans to the court.   
  
  Q. If you could talk to us for a moment about your doubles partnership with Nadal, how did that come about? Whose idea was it? Do you see you guys playing together as a pair again in the future?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I wish to play with him in the future, definitely. We'll talk about it.   
 It was -- it was both of us that were thinking about eventually playing doubles together. Throughout actually last two years we have been trying to get together and play some events. Of course, we always prioritize singles.  
 You know, he was obviously playing more with the Spanish players because of the Davis Cup, and of course they're his friends and countrymen. And the other side, I did, as well. But we did it in the end, and now we have a reason to believe that we can pair up in the future, the near future, I hope.   
 I would love to, so I don't know what he thinks, but I will definitely accept that challenge again.  
  
  Q. Actually, before opening ceremony, Nadal said very nice words about you, that you're very talented and good partner for double. You now lost, but what would be your relation, say, if you met each other in the final?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: We just talked about eventually -- well, if we, you know, if we get to the finals, I guess the winner will pay a private jet to Cincinnati. I don't know. (Smiling.) That's one of the things.   
 But, no, definitely it was a great experience playing with Rafa who is, for me, one of the best players that ever played this game, and he still has many years to come, so he's just -- he's just a legend already in our sport, and he's a good friend of mine. So to be able to stand on the court with him as, you know, No. 1 and No. 2 of the world, was history as well for our sport and attracted a lot of attention from media, from the fans.   
 It's good for the sport. You know, I think these things should happen more often in men's tennis. So, yes, we did lose, but it was our first match, so we were still kind of playing -- I was playing on my side. I was playing -- we felt like a team at some points, but we were still not feeling comfortable as a team, you know. We were enjoying more on the court, I guess. We had lots of fun, and we will definitely try to do it again.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT