WIMBLEDON
June 23, 2010
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/T. Dent
  7-6, 6-1, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Novak.   
  
  Q. What was the difference today than from Monday?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, two different opponents. Rochus is obviously a player who runs a lot, gets a lot of balls back. Very tough to play with him from the baseline.   
 And today I had a very big server. Especially in the first set, he had a good percentage of the first serves in, as well. He was putting a lot of pressure on my serves.   
 I think it was very important for me to overcome that first set to win it. I think that was one of the turning points in the match. I managed to get the match under my control after that.   
  
  Q. How difficult was it to play someone with such a big serve? He got the record at Wimbledon on speed of serve.   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I think 151 was one serve that he didn't put in and 148 was the fastest.   
 Yeah, it's incredible. He had so many first serves over 140 miles. That's gonna stay the dream for me to make it in my life ever. But he obviously on this diamond day did it great. It was a fantastic day. You know, when there is sun, the ball goes faster. Obviously, his serve gets more effect.   
  
  Q. Were you relieved to get that one finished tonight after such a long contest on Monday?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, yeah. In the first match, I had a new experience playing under the roof and lights. Today on the diamond day, it was different. Just happy to get through. Hopefully I'll continue the same rhythm.   
  
  Q. When you saw you were last on Centre Court...   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I was happy. It's great to get a lot of matches on the show courts, of course. In a way, it gives me a sense that I did something in my life, in my career. Of course, it's a pleasure playing in front of that crowd.   
 There's so much history and tradition in the Centre Court, especially, that we don't need to talk about it too much.   
  
  Q. Will you watch the football, as well?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Oh, yeah, I'm very eager to watch the Serbia/Australia match. It starts right now. Hopefully we'll get through. I think we have good chances on this diamond day.   
  
  Q. Were you upset by your five sets in the first round?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No. Look, I was expecting a tough match. I lost to Rochus last match we played in Miami, and I did have a negative score with him. So he's a tricky opponent for my game.   
 But I think the break of the lights when I was two sets to one down gave me more chances to, you know, recover, get my thoughts together. After half an hour, I came back as a different player on the court.   
 I was happy to play well.   
  
  Q. Do you feel in better shape now in this tournament than in Roland Garros where you had maybe some wrist injury?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No, I didn't have wrist injury. I was very fit there. I played great, actually. I thought I was gaining that confidence, the right play that I had in last couple of years. In that quarterfinals, just very strange turnover. I was very disappointed after that match.   
 But it was great from my side that I managed to keep that momentum going on. Right now in Wimbledon, I feel great. Let's see how far I can go.   
  
  Q. The history has been written while you play, because it's 46-46 in the fifth set. 8 hours and 15 minutes. What are your thoughts about that?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I mean, what can you say about that? I mean, I am very surprised. Everybody's watching it in the locker rooms, everywhere. That's the longest match by far any tournament, any Grand Slam. Of course, two big servers.   
 But I'm amazed that they can both hold their serves this comfortably for the whole day. I mean, it's unbelievable. You have to give them credit, both of them.   
 Whoever wins today, I think both of them are winners. Obviously, the loser will be disappointed. Yeah, I don't know, maybe they should agree on playing tiebreak if it's 50-All. That's maybe one of the solutions (laughter).   
  
  Q. Will you send a message to Stankovic on this diamond day?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: It's very important we play for this diamond.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT