MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 17, 2010
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 F. VERDASCO/N. Djokovic
  6-2, 6-2 
   
  THE MODERATOR: Questions .   
  Q. Maybe you beat yourself with unforced errors.   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, yeah, after the first three matches that I had here, this was quite a different performance. He played very good. But I think I made his win much easier because I made so much unforced errors.   
 I wasn't moving well, I wasn't feeling well on the court. You know, it's a bad day. But on the positive side, you know, it's a semifinal. After the performances I had in Indian Wells and Miami, this is great. I have to consider this as a success and move on.   
 I think I'm on the right way. It's just, you know, there is the next tournament in a week's time, so I'll do my best to prepare well.  
  
  Q. What do you think he does very, very well?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, he stays in the point all the time. You know, he improved a lot with consistency I think in the strokes. He doesn't make that much unforced errors anymore. He's very, very solid from the back court. Physically very strong obviously.   
  
  Q. Seems you were not physically okay today on the court. Were you sick?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No. Actually, there's a little bit of problems with allergies in the last months and a half. But, you know, I don't want to find any excuses for the loss, obviously. But definitely not an easy thing to fight with nature.   
  
  Q. You got only five free points on your serve today. Was that the biggest trouble for you for the moment?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, this is one of the things that I would like to improve, the serve. I think everybody sees that my serve isn't working. It's not like something that I don't know.   
 Just got automatically in my head that I lost my balance in the serve, I lost the rhythm. It's not easy to get it back.   
 I guess I have to spend a lot of hours on the court working and hoping that it's going to come back.   
  
  Q. After such a game, what is your general mood?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, look, to be honest, yes, I'm disappointed for a loss, of course. I don't like to lose. Nobody likes to lose. But I think I've played well throughout the whole tournament. You know, even today that I lost 2-2, every game was here and there, you know, quite tight.   
 If I was physically feeling a little bit better on the court, I think I could have a good chance to be in the match with him.   
 But it's tennis. It's sport. Life goes on. I have to be ready for the next tournament, you know. As a professional tennis player, you can't really look at the past and just, I don't know, judge your match or something that already happened because next tournament is already coming up very soon.   
  
  Q. Do you think it's a problem of confidence?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Actually, I got back my confidence. As I said, I started feeling better on the court. 2-2, you know, looks very easy result. But still, even though I was making a lot of unforced errors, I still feel well. As long as it's like this, I'm confident that I'm gonna play better and better, you know, towards Roland Garros.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT