WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 15, 2019
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. DJOKOVIC/P. Busta
6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You broke him twice, and when you are serving at 4-3 second set, 15-40, you were able to get out of that.  Did you feel comfortable the whole way through, or was it seemingly as large of a margin as the score indicated?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, as I said on the court, you know, I don't think the score indicates how tough it was on the court.  We battled it out.  I think I was serving really well.  That was probably the best shot in the game tonight for me, over 70% of first serves in.  Got me out of trouble in the second set when I was facing breakpoints.
I thought he was very solid.  Played against him a couple of times and have seen him play, and I knew what quality he possesses, but he did surprise me with his aggressivity from back of the court.  As soon as he got a little bit of a softer ball from my side, he went for it from both forehand and backhand flat coming in.
So it was tough.  You know, I just had to play on a high level consistently throughout the entire match, which I have.  I thought some opportunities for double break me, 3-1, 15-40 maybe could have been easier in the second set if I capitalize on those opportunities, but all in all, very good quality match.  Very good performance from my side.  You know, at least two levels better than against Querrey in the first match.
I'm pleased I'm going in the right direction and looking forward to the next one.
Q. Last night was rather eventful.  I don't know if you saw the match between Nick and Karen.  What were your thoughts on what happened there?  As a part of the players council, are these fines and the amount of the fines, is that a topic for you guys at all?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, we have not talked too much about fines in the past, as I can recall, to be honest.  It's more of a decision of, I think, combined between ATP and the tournament, I think, depending on the severity of the behavior of the player.  So it's tough to really judge, to say what's right, what's wrong, whether it should be more or less.
The match was, I thought, a great quality match in terms of tennis for a couple of sets.  And then Khachanov just was tougher in the end.
Q. There were a few times that the crowd was cheering for your opponent.  How is it that you're able to overcome this and still stay on top to the end of the match?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I mean, look, you know, you have part of the crowd cheering for me, part of the crowd cheering for my opponent.  It's normal.  It's something that you experience or face more or less every single match.
I try to, you know, focus on what I need to do and focus on the positive energy that I get from the crowd, as well, and use that in my favor.  That's quite simple.  At times it's not easy, but I guess that's the right way to go.
Q. How much do you pay attention to what else is happening around the bracket?  Are you just trying to focus solely on what you need to do?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, you know, obviously when I'm with the family, it's completely different experience with the tournament for me, because I'm with kids and I don't watch too many matches.  I spend time with them.
But they're not with me now so I do spend more time with the team, watch tennis.  Of course I do follow what's going on.  Not every match, not every court, not everything, because I also have a life off the tennis court, as well, and things that interest me.  Of course I follow it.  It's part of me, part of my life, part of my career.  I also enjoy it.  But I also have the responsibility to follow because of my role in the council.
Q. You have had a tremendous amount of success in Canada and you unfortunately you didn't play there this year.  Looking at all the success of the Canadians now or this year from the men's and the women's, what do you think of really the depth in Canadian tennis going on now?  Because it's probably as strong as it ever has been.
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, it's very impressive from both men and women.  Bianca has been doing really well.  She was unfortunate with an injury after her win in Indian Wells, but she seems to be playing her best in the biggest events.  That's very encouraging for her and for Canadian tennis.
And you don't get to see, you know, young players early in their careers doing so well and playing their best in the biggest events.  So that's quite impressive from her side.
Then you have Felix and Denis that are very professional, very talented, very complete tennis players.  Raonic of course leading the way has been there for a while, but, you know, these two guys have been terrific, I think.  I mean, Felix, especially the way he handles everything and with the way he goes about his everyday duty on and off the court, it's quite impressive.  He's very mature for his age and a bright future for Canada.
Q. We were quite surprised to see your fellow No. 1 Naomi Osaka on Court 10 today.  What do you think about that?
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, I saw that, too, to be honest.  I was surprised, too, to be honest.
I don't know -- well, obviously in a combined event it's always tricky because someone will have to go out from the first court or first two courts.  But she's No. 1.  So I think she deserves to be at least on the grandstand if not center court.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT