BARCLAYS DUBAI TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
February 26, 2010
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/M. Baghdatis
  6-7, 6-3, 6-4 
   
  Q. Do you like making it difficult?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I was just saying, you know, it's incredible struggle again. Losing the first set and coming back. Playing almost three hours against somebody that keeps the ball in the court in the rally for a long time.   
 And, you know, it was very close. Every game was on the edge, I think. But still my serve wasn't on the level that I wanted it to be. A lot of double faults, a lot of breakpoints saved or lost or whatever, but a lot of breakpoints in general. So that is something that I really don't want to have anymore.   
 But, you know, when you have a good serve and it gives you a little more advantage, free points, and mental confidence. You know, I didn't have that in today's match. So I had to work it out with my legs and fighting spirit, I guess.  
  
  Q. Your percent of first serve is good, 60%, but direction is bad?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Really? Direction and speed of a chicken. Yeah, this is one of the tournaments that -- just one of the days that you don't feel like, you know, I'm defending. I have periods in the match where I played really well couple of games, and then I played really, really bad couple of games.   
 It's ups and downs, and it shouldn't be happening at this level. I'm just fortunate to go through, you know. You know, I was fighting, I was holding on as well as I did in the last two matches.   
 But, you know, I don't want to I guess look on the negative side. I'm in the finals. I have a chance to defend my title.   
  
  Q. Three three-set matches: How are the energy levels?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I've got to find it. Tomorrow's the final. There is no excuse. You know, I'm tired definitely. It's been a long week for me, but finals is finals and I have faced this kind of feeling and situation before in my life. So there is no -- nothing new. I will rest as much as I can and get ready.  
  
  Q. Will you have some garlic also?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Maybe garlic, maybe I don't know. Janko left, so I don't have anybody to share with (smiling).  
  
  Q. Can you talk about playing tomorrow Mikhail?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, against Mikhail, I lost a couple of weeks ago in Rotterdam two tie breakers. I should have won that match, I think. In my opinion, I felt the ball well but just didn't play the right shots at the right time and he won in the end.   
 So I am motivated to win another title and get my revenge back. He's a very talented player. Even though he looks strange the way his technique is on the court, still he's able to play defensive and offensive really well and slice. When he's on a roll, he deserves to definitely with the quality-wise to be Top 5. He's been playing here top level for many years.   
 Big support, you know, my side, his side. Lot of Russians, lot of Serbs here. Let's see what happens.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT