AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 27, 2010
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. TSONGA/N. Djokovic
  7-6, 6-7, 1-6, 6-3, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. What was the problem with your health?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, first, I would like to congratulate Jo. He played a great match. Deserved to win.   
 It was unfortunate that I couldn't perform on the level that I wanted to in the fourth and fifth set. I don't want to find excuses for my loss, but, you know, I went to vomit and I had diarrhea before the match. Just a terrible feeling.   
 You know, it's been a great tournament for me, so it's just a bad way to -- not to be able physically go through the whole match.  
  
  Q. Was it something you ate?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: It was the same routine like every day. I mean, I just didn't eat some kind of shrimps or something. It was pasta.   
 Maybe. I really don't know. It's too bad.  
  
  Q. Did you have any memories of last year here when you had to withdraw from the match?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No. No. No.   
  
  Q. When did you start feeling ill?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I had a little problems with the stomach even before the match as I said. No, the big deal I started feeling after third set when I just -- I couldn't hold on.   
 After two games I had to go to the toilet. There was no way, otherwise I would throw up on the court. That's when I had to do it.   
  
  Q. Are you injured in your legs or something like that?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No. Well, look, when you lose a lot of fluids and your engine a bit stop working, that's how I felt. Very bad with my legs in the fourth, and especially in the fifth set. I wasn't able to run him down at the baseline, and that was the major problem. You know, he was serving well and just got confidence boost to be aggressive.   
 It was unfortunate.   
  
  Q. How did you think he'll go against Roger Federer?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I don't know and I don't care.   
  
  Q. You still were playing some great points in the fourth and fifth sets, some great rallies. What would you put your level at in that fourth and fifth set?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: As I said, I wasn't able -- wasn't able to move. I wasn't able to physically try to involve myself into the strokes. That was -- so you couldn't really -- I couldn't really judge my game in the fourth and fifth set.  
 It was more like, Okay, let's stay on the court and hope he'll make a mistake. That was more or less the philosophy.   
 I think overall, the whole tournament I played well, even today, you know, it's a good tennis. A bit disappointed for the loss because I thought I could win today with my game.  
 But life goes on. It's just the start of the season.  
  
  Q. Did you think to give up?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No, no. I wasn't thinking.   
  
  Q. You will be No. 2 if Murray doesn't win the tournament. Is it important for you?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, for me it was important to get as far in the tournament as possible, you know. I had a high ambitions here because I felt well and played well and just feeling confident on the court, and then this happens. This is the most disappointing thing.   
 I wasn't thinking about rankings. If it happens it's great. It's something that I wait for many years already. But, you know, definitely I have to deserve it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT