US OPEN
September 1, 2019
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WAWRINKA/N. Djokovic   
6-4, 7-5, 2-1 [Ret.]   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Was it your shoulder? Did it relapse after the Kudla match?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes, it was the left shoulder.   
 Q.  You said it had made some improvement but did it kind of back off again?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, unfortunately.   
 Q.  You didn't seem able to take initiative since the beginning. The impression was you couldn't play at your best since the beginning. I'd like to know when did you realize that you couldn't play at your best?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Look, I congratulate Stan. He's a great player. I really wish him all the best the rest of the tournament.   
I don't want to talk about my injuries. I said that in the past. I'm sticking to that.   
 Q.  But this time...  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I know, but I retired and I told you it's left shoulder. I have nothing more to talk about.   
 Q.  You were kind of booed at the end by the crowd. Wondering how you felt in that moment. You gave them a thumbs up. Must not have felt very fair on your part.  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: What can I tell you?   
 Q.  Some days ago there were speculations about how strong were your injuries. Today we saw you had to retire because of that. How do you feel about people treating you the other day regarding that and today after your retirement because of this, being that this is a Grand Slam and it's important to you?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Look, I'm not being offended by, you know, mistreated by anybody. I don't really, you know, pay too much attention on that. You know, I like to respect others. I hope that others can respect me and my decision.   
I'm sorry for the crowd. Obviously they came to see a full match, and just wasn't to be. That's all it is.   
I mean, a lot of people didn't know what's happening, so you cannot blame them. It is what it is.   
 Q.  How frustrating is this injury that came up right at this time? Otherwise you'd probably be very confident?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, it is frustrating (smiling). Very frustrating. Obviously not the first, not the last player to get injured and to, you know, withdraw from one of the biggest events in sport.   
But obviously I just came off the court, so of course it hurts.   
 Q.  How important is being a father and husband, support of your family in moments like this?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Thanks for asking that. Obviously they are different roles that I have in my life, not just a tennis player. Obviously going back to the fatherhood now will definitely help kind of redirect my thoughts on something that is obviously far more important for me. And being a husband and father, having a family is the biggest thing.   
But right now obviously I'm in the midst of unfortunate situation, and I have to, you know, suffer the consequences of that. And as I said, I'm not the first nor the last one. Life goes on.   
 Q.  Apart from your unfortunate ending to this, how do you assess how Stan is playing, his chances to move forward?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I said before the match, knowing what he has achieved in his career, that he's a big-matches player. He loves to play on the big stage against the best players of the world. It's what got him three slams and Olympic gold and everything.   
He struggled himself with a lot of injuries, so he understands. He knows how it is. It's great to see him playing on the highest level. Honestly, I really like him and we get along very well.   
 Q.  Not asking for details about the injury, but looking towards the end of the year, are you expecting areas of rest, a long layoff? Will you play again this year?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Evaluation is to come. Obviously I did a lot of different treatments and diagnostics and everything in the last couple weeks. I obviously have to do it again and see how the shoulder reacts.   
You know, to the rest, obviously not playing is going to help speed up recovery. I'm planning to play Tokyo, and hopefully I'll be able to do so.   
 Q.  How do you draw the line for yourself between when to push on and when to maybe say, Not today.  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, it's hard to say, you know, when you don't know what you feel anymore, to be honest. The pain was constant for weeks now. Some days higher; some days with less intensity and obviously taking different stuff to kill the pain instantly. Sometimes it works; sometimes it doesn't.   
You just know when you know, I guess, when you feel like you're not able to hit the shot anymore.   
 Q.  Obviously frustrating end to the Grand Slam season for you. When you look back and reflect, how will you assess this year as a whole?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, this season is not yet over. Obviously Grand Slam season is done for me. I mean, I won two slams out of four and played semis in French. I had a really good Grand Slam season. I cannot complain, not at all.   
We'll see. You know, there is plenty of big tournaments ahead. Rankings-wise, plenty of points to defend for me and try to withhold that ranking No. 1. Obviously Rafa has been playing well and Roger and the other guys. I just hope I'll get a chance to be competing, because once I'm healthy, you know, I actually like my chances playing in Asia. And also indoor season, I play historically pretty well in those last couple months of the year.   
 Q.  As an extra level of frustration, you want to catch Roger and Rafa in the Grand Slam charge. Does that come into your thoughts?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Look, it's no secret that I have, you know, of course desire and a goal to reach the most slams, you know, and reach Roger's record. But at the same time, it's a long road ahead hopefully for me. I hope I can play for many more years. I'm planning to. I mean, I don't see an end behind the corner at all.   
Now it's a matter of keeping my body and mind in shape and trying to still peak at these kind of events that are majors and that are the most significant in our sport.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT