ROGERS CUP
August 13, 2009
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/M. Youzhny
  6-3, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Was that a step up in your performance today from your other match, you think?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, overall I think I played quite solid, as much as I needed to. I didn't start the match well, as I didn't start the first one. But then I recovered really well, won four games in a row.
 The start of both of the sets I was a break up, which was very important and I held serve quite well throughout the whole match.
 Then in the end, you know, I was struggling a little bit with all those double faults again, but there are certain moments when you just start thinking about things you shouldn't. But it's okay. Overall I think I played well.

 Q. Were the conditions a little bit better today, cooler?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, it was okay. It was hot but not as hot as it can be. 

 Q. Do you feel good about this, playing here, because you won here?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Sure, sure, sure. I think it's quite a fast surface. You don't get to see a lot of those in today's tennis. I think surfaces are getting slower and the ball bounces higher.
 But here it doesn't bounce that high, and it's quite fast. It's advantage for the servers, but I like the fast surfaces, fast games. So it's suitable to my game.

 Q. You could play Andy Roddick next. What are your thoughts about him?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I think he's going to have an interesting match now against Verdasco, who is playing quite well.
 If I get to play Andy -- I lost to him the last two matches we have played. It was both on the hardcourts, so hopefully I can get chance to eventually play better and win. 
 I mean, we all know he's probably the biggest server in the game next to Karlovic, and he's playing much better since he started working with a new coach.
 He's more aggressive. He played great in Wimbledon. He's on a roll, so it's going to be a difficult one.

 Q. You're preparing for a Grand Slam obviously here. Seems that almost everybody was off after Wimbledon and a new season begins now. Now you're in the middle of a Grand Slam caliber draw. Is it a high, steep climb after a layoff like this? For every one of you, not just you. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, sure, sure. Yes. I think most of us guys didn't play any events prior to Montreal. So the matches will get tougher and tougher. 
 But this is what you want to have prior to the Grand Slam. You want to play the best players in the world to test yourself where you are at the moment, what's your shape like and see if you can win against them.

 Q. Would you rather have a more gradual hill to climb instead of, you know, something like this?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I think it's a challenge. You can't really get easy matches and easy points in quarterfinals and in finals. 
 You know, as I said, I haven't played after Madrid that well, in French Open and Wimbledon. Made quarters in Wimbledon, which was okay, but still haven't played my best. You know, I'm trying to find my game. I think hardcourt is the surface where I can play my best tennis. That's why I need to have -- I think it's a challenge to have the best players in the world across the net. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT