INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (MEN)
May 2, 2009
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/R. Federer
  4-6, 6-3, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How important do you think it was, that game that you played just before the rain delay, to get the momentum going for you again and then you could build on that after you came back?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, it was really important. I mean, if you look at it, obviously everybody will say that the rain, you know, helped me. It's a fact. You know, it's a fact that I played much better after the break, and that I started being more patient, moving much better, you know, giving him more balls back and making him play more. 
 This is what I didn't do in the end of the first and start of the second set. He could have broken me again to have a double break, and then, you know, it would be much tougher for me to come back. Here again, I think I've played in the first set even -- in the first set I played quite well. I was a little bit distracted by some things, and then suddenly a lot unforced errors resulted with a loss.

 Q. What things were you distracted by in the first set? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, look, I didn't like the guy who was whistling. There were some things that were happening. But, look, it shouldn't happen in my head, you know. I should just not care about it. But it was really not nice gesture. It was second serve on breakpoint, so it wasn't really nice.

 Q. Roger said that the biggest difference he feels in comparing to the past is that his serve is not working quite as well as it used to. Could you confirm that? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I think he was serving quite well throughout the first part of the match. After the rain, he had ups and downs. Well, the serve might be an issue, but I think I returned much better after the break. I gave him more balls back, and he felt obviously pressure and started serving worse. 

 Q. What will you draw on, do you think, from your performance against Nadal - we believe it will be Nadal - in the final from Monte-Carlo? For a long time you were his equal out there. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Look, Rafa, there's not much to talk about him, especially on clay. He's going to be absolute favorite to win it again, but I have my chances, especially after the great performance in Monte-Carlo. 
 I have no reason not to believe that I can win. I won a set against him in Monte-Carlo. I played really good start of the third set, and learned that I have to really play every point against him.
 So that's what I'm going to try to do tomorrow. Physically to prepare, to be ready to play long rallies, because that's what happening when you play against him, and just wait for the chances. 

 Q. You feel much more stronger physically since Miami? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I feel quite good, yeah.

 Q. You work much more, or... 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I do work, you know. I don't think it was all issue about my physical preparation, condition. It was mentally, as well, if in some period I didn't believe in my quality. I had some ups and downs with the results, but now I'm confident enough. I know that I deserve to be here, so I think it's all coming together. 

 Q. You also be defending the No. 3 position tomorrow. Does that give you extra pressure or motivation? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No. I mean, I don't care about it, really. I mean, I've been playing really well, so I'm going to celebrate my victory tonight, because I think it's a great win for me, and then try to get the best out of tomorrow's match.

 Q. What do you like tomorrow in your way to play in this tournament? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Sorry? 

 Q. What do you like more in your way to play during this tournament?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I didn't... 

 Q. What's the best thing in your play during Rome? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Oh, in my game? Well, I think my forehand was working quite well throughout the event. Serve I think would be better, and should be better, for tomorrow's match, especially, you know, if you play Rafa who gets a lot of balls back on this surface. I have to put pressure with the serve at least, you know, so I'm going to try to work on that. 

 Q. Again, today's match, do you think that everything depends from your game that improve after the stop, or you feel that Roger a little bit down in his game? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, look it isn't easy to remain in the same level of performance - speaking about his game. If you get more balls back and if you -- if the opponent makes you play more balls, and, you know, makes you run more, then it's, you know, normal that you're under pressure. That's why he probably made a lot more unforced errors than before the rain break. 
 So I think I was patient more and playing more compatible and wiser after the break, you know, more on his backhand side and trying to wait for chances. I think that was the key. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT