INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (MEN)
April 30, 2009
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/T. Robredo
  6-1, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. It was pretty comprehensive. How did you feel out there today?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I felt quite good. I had a day off yesterday, which helped me to recover from the late-night second round and just get some more practice. I didn't get a lot of rhythm in that first match. 
 You know, it all went in my advantage, and I used it today. I was in the control of the match. I think I played quite patient, but then when I needed to step it up I did.
 I was quite strange because Tommy was making a lot of unforced errors, so he didn't put a lot of pressure on me.

 Q. Was it easier than you expected then?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, yeah, I can say that. 

 Q. Is there any coincidence in the fact that since we started talking to you about the No. 3 race you seem to have clicked into gear and found your game?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Look, I have been playing really well in the last two or three months regardless who is in front and who is behind me. 
 I just focus on my game, and I've been playing really well. Let's see if I can keep it up. 

 Q. It's a very long season, the clay court season. Is there a time in it when you think, I've done enough and got my game where I want it to be and I can afford to have a little bit of a relaxation period, or do you have to have a good level all the time?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No, there is a not a lot of room for relaxation, especially if you are competing with a players like Federer, Nadal, you know, who are reaching the final stages of each event they're playing. 
 You have to be focused all the time and you have to perform your best and try to get in the final stages as well in order to stay in the top rankings-wise, points-wise, whatever. 
 I've been playing at least semifinals of each event I've participated in on this surface last year, so, you know, I think I'm playing better than I did last year. 
 I'm moving much better on clay, so hopefully I can get the results out of that.

 Q. And how hard is that, to keep up and maintain a very high, consistent level all the time? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: In life, a lot of things are hard, you know. I think it's certainly not easy, but this is something that you must do in order to, you know, stay at the top of the men's tennis, and that is what I want. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT