MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 17, 2009
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/F. Verdasco
  6-2, 4-6, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Totally different conditions between last night and today. Was it difficult for you to adjust your game?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, thank you, first of all, for not making any press conference last night. It was quite late (smiling). 
 We had a very strange match. I could have finished the job in two sets, but then he came back. I was lucky, you know, I get to finish the match yesterday, because you have some guys who are having a really difficult schedule today, having to play two singles, even doubles. Verdasco, if he wins doubles now, he's going to play against us another doubles match, so it's three matches in a day. 
 But, you know, these are the conditions you have to adjust on. The courts were really wet. Even today you could feel it. The balls were getting bald and really fast. It was you tough to control. But overall I played really well. 

 Q. You talked about your fitness; wanting to improve your endurance. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes. 

 Q. Is it kind of helpful in some way to have to back up very quickly like that and test yourself?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: It is. I think every single tournament, every single match is a test. I've said before that the priority on this surface would probably be the physical, you know, preparation and physical strength, if you are able to commit yourself to the long rallies, long matches. 
 I think today was a really good test, a really good match for me, that I can see if I'm able to do that. That's what I did. I hang in there, just waited for my chances. 

 Q. Were you impressed by yourself today?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I've been playing quite good in the first two matches, as well. Feeling well in doubles, as well. 
 I got four matches prior to today's quarterfinal. Got a lot of practice and worked a lot. I just knew that I am feeling the ball quite well. I just need to repeat that again today. 

 Q. Did you think you would be able to do so well, so early in the clay season?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, it wasn't really a lot of time to get used to that. But it was not just me; it was a couple of players who have played really well in the States and didn't have a lot of time to get used to this surface. 
 But this is tennis. This is the schedule. You just have to go with it. 

 Q. We have been talking a lot about the rankings, how you are close to Federer, Murray is close to you. How much do you think about that? Not at all? Does it worry you?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No. Look, I try not to think about it, you know. But, of course, it's part of your life. It's part of your job. You always get that. Of course, you think about it. 
 It's really important to keep the balance and really not think about it too much because then you keep your focus away from something you need to do on the court. You need to win every single match you play. You need to believe in that. And that's it. 
 If you think about rankings, who's going up, who's losing points, then you lose your priorities. 

 Q. Weren't you afraid to lose your concentration playing the role of Hugh Hefner last night?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Two nights ago (smiling). Unfortunately, public I think will not see that. It was quite interesting. 
 Actually, I think that this ATP player show is the best thing that they have entertainment-wise in the year. They should have it more. 

 Q. 'More', you mean in different tournaments?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah. I think it's a good idea for tournaments to have that, because there's a lot of players that want to show themselves in a different light, if you know what I mean.

 Q. What did you enjoy more to perform?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I started this as a stripper and I then I finished as Hugh Hefner. So explains it all. 

 Q. No video on YouTube in the next day?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Last year, players show got on YouTube. Maybe is going to be the same.

 Q. Did you impersonate players?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes.

 Q. Which ones?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I can't say (smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT