MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 14, 2009
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/O. Hernandez
  6-1, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You must be reasonably pleased with that. A good start. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, really good start. I didn't quite expect to perform that good, considering the fact that I didn't have any matches, singles matches, on this surface, and I had very little time to make this transition. 
 But I was really playing aggressive and patient at the same time. This combination is really important for this surface. So hopefully I can continue. 

 Q. How long does it normally take you to adjust?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, it all depends. It all depends from which surface are you coming. I think from hard court to clay is easier than vice versa because it's a slower surface, and then the ball's coming a little bit slower than on the hard courts. So it's easier to adjust. 
 But it's probably the physical preparation which is priority for each player. 

 Q. Physically how are you feeling?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I felt quite good. I felt quite good. I was working. I was working quite hard, you know, last four, five days. I will continue on even throughout this tournament to pay attention on the physical strength 'cause I am aware that I have a lot of important events coming up on this surface. 

 Q. Will you be doing anything different in that sense?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I might focus myself a little bit more on endurance and running so I can have more air on the court. I can say that I can be more confident that I can play long rallies. 

 Q. I'd like to talk about it's a long time since we didn't see the joking side of Djokovic. We have the impression we lost this part of you since two years. What do you think about this advertising from this morning with Head? Do you think you're going to go farther and farther?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: That's bad news what you're saying, that you lost (laughter). 
 But I don't think so, no. I'm still really enjoying whatever I do. It's just that now you play more matches, you have more commitments. It's really difficult to have an outside life, you know, next to the tennis matches. 
 But this morning it was something really interesting, something really new. Head brand is known that it's representing young players, which is really good. And the video, I don't know if you had a chance to see it, it was really fun. I made it in Miami. It was a day-long shooting, but it was worth it. 
 You know, it's something new with all these animations and all these monsters attacking tennis players. You know, it's good. I think it's good for the sport because tennis needs it. 

 Q. Could you imagine Roger Federer making the same advertising?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, he's playing in our position, so I don't think so. 

 Q. When you say give yourself a new air or aura on clay, what do you mean by that?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No, I mean just more -- look, it's really important in today's tennis because we have so many commitment tournaments and we have to play so much. In order to be one of the top players, you have to keep up because you have Murray, Nadal, Federer, all these guys who are doing so well on different kind of surfaces. So in order to keep up with them, you have to do the same. 
 And to do that, you know, to do the same thing, to be successful, you have to be physically fit. So, you know, I got a lot of difficulties with the health the last couple of years. The tempo is really growing and growing. So I have to pay attention to that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT