MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 18, 2009
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/S. Wawrinka
  4-6, 6-1, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. The singles semifinal, it was a tough match. You really had to fight, didn't you?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes, I knew it was going to be a struggle for both of us. He likes playing on clay. He's physically very strong player. He was on the roll, winning against Federer and many other good players.   
 So, you know, I had this slow start, meaning I wanted to wait for his unforced errors more than I wanted to step up to the court and take, you know, balls early. I didn't do that. He used his chances wisely.   
 Then second set, it's a totally different story. I really started playing well, aggressively, serving high percentage. It all paid off in the end.   
  
  Q. In terms of your week so far, have you surprised yourself at how well you have made the adaptation?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, I think I've done my adjustment to this surface quite fast and quite well in a very short period of the time, which is important of course, considering the fact that tennis season is that, you know, packed. Week after week you have to basically change continents, time zones and surfaces.   
 I'm very happy with my, you know, finals tomorrow. Hopefully I can continue with a good results on this surface.   
  
  Q. Tomorrow is it 'Mission Impossible'?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No. If I think 'Mission Impossible,' then I shouldn't go to the court, like with the white flag. But I understand.   
  
  Q. He's on a winning streak.   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Look, you can't win against him if you don't believe that you can win.   
  
  Q. So you believe?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I will try to win because this is finals and I think I have chances. This is the only behavior that is acceptable for winning against Nadal on this surface.   
  
  Q. You remember Hamburg. You were very close.   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah.   
  
  Q. So the game plan could be to do the same but a little bit better?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes. The fact is that he has improved even more from last year. His backhand was maybe a weakness where players were searching for their chance. But now he's stepping in and he's basically not making a lot of mistakes on backhand, making the player run all over the court. He's improved his serve. His physical strength and mental strength we already know. You know, generally he's a very complete player.   
 But everything is possible in tennis. It's a finals. I'm motivated. It's gonna be a lot of pressure on him because he's obviously a favorite to win it again. So that's it.   
  
  Q. Do you have any special strategy against him?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I just said. Look, I'm going to have to play an aggressive game. That's the way it is. That's my style.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT