SONY ERICSSON OPEN
April 5, 2009
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/N. Djokovic
  6-2, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Obviously a tough match. At first it seemed like Andy was really on and you were off. His passing shots were really tough. What was the most difficult thing you had out there to deal with?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yet again, I was, I think, the biggest enemy to myself. I was struggling again and adjusting to the heat.   
 But I was really unpatient on the start. Made a huge number of unforced errors, and he was just playing very solid and waiting for his chances and serving quite well, moving all over the court quite good.   
 Then I managed to come back second set. I didn't play smart on the 5-3. I had two set points, and I could have served a bit better.   
 I just, you know, got opportunities to get into the rally, but I haven't, you know. He made some good returns on the first set point. On the other set point, double fault.   
 You know, generally, I'm not really satisfied with the way I played today. I played towards the end of the second set -- throughout the whole second set I played good. Played much better. But then I had to use those opportunities. Then who knows what happens third set.   
  
  Q. You are you concerned about your problems with the heat? I mean, it shouldn't be happening to an athlete like yourself.   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I know. That's just the way it is. I can't fight it.  
  
  Q. Is that why you called the trainer?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah.   
  
  Q. Trouble breathing again?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No.   
  
  Q. Did you do medical examination for your abilities to stay in the heat?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I can't do medical examination for the heat. I mean, only place you can do is Sahara. I can just go there and just examine myself. I'm doing it in the closed area with the air conditioning, and it's not really good example.   
  
  Q. You know the first player, Pete Sampras, had the problem with the heat, and he had some kind of anemia.   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I hope I don't have nothing. It's been for a while like this.  
  
  Q. Talk about Andy Murray. You mentioned the other day how much he's improved from a year ago to now. What's the difference?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I think physically he's moving much better all over the court. The balls he wasn't getting before he is now.   
 The switch of defensive to offensive tennis in the points, he has really good, one of the best in the world. I think that makes him a much better player than he used to be.   
  
  Q. Particularly his defensive backhand. He turns that into offense so quickly. Do you feel like you had good position at the net on some of those?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I think I played volleys quite well, but he was managing to find a little space to pass me. He just made a good passing shot. You have to say, Well done. I was positioning myself as best as I can.   
 But, again, I'm saying I should have played tactic a little bit different in the start of the match. I was too much aggressive, too many unforced errors.  
  
  Q. You felt poorly very early in the match?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, yeah.   
  
  Q. Obviously television is a factor, but do you think it's right to play in the hottest time of the day?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: You know, you can fight it all your life, but this is just the way it is. You know, it's not just players, it's tournament, it's sponsors, television. A lot of things involved, as you know.   
  
  Q. Correct me if I'm wrong, I believe your family owns a new tournament in Belgrade.   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes.  
  
  Q. Does that put a lot of pressure on you?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No. Actually, I'm very happy about it. I'm proud. After couple of years of big success for our country, I think we absolutely deserve to have an event back in Serbia.   
 I'm happy that my family is directly involved in it. We are working hard already on the site for five, six months already. It's rebuilt absolutely from the start.   
 It's a new site, new courts. It's going to be nice weather. Hopefully we can make a good impression.  
  
  Q. You sort of already answered this, but how pleased were you with your volleying, and have you been working on that?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes, I was happy. There was a couple things I was happy about today. A volley, here and there a forehand return, but overall, I should -- I think I should use it more, because I have quite good groundstrokes and I'm able to, you know, finish of the point much earlier than I need to and spend less energy. It was quite good today.  
  
  Q. Have you been working on this a lot?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes, yes.   
  
  Q. Do you think the volley will make a comeback?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Comeback in what sense?   
  
  Q. We've seen so much baseline, baseline, baseline. We're getting dizzy.   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes, I know. But it has changed since last 15 years. You don't have any more serve and volley players like Becker.  
  
  Q. Are you bringing it back?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I cannot be serve and volley player ever. I can make a little variety for your pleasure. (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. Which one of the clay court tournaments will you play at? Belgrade and...  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes. If Belgrade offers good money I'll play in Belgrade. I'm going to play Monte-Carlo, Rome, Belgrade, Madrid, and I'll skip French Open. No, I'm joking.   
  
  Q. What did you do to train in the off-season?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I had -- I always like to the mountains for about ten days. I grew up on the mountain, and the air is really good. You get lost of oxygen.   
 I went for a mountain, and then a couple weeks in Monte-Carlo.  
  
  Q. Where was the mountain?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: In Austria.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT