AUSTRALIAN OPEN
February 8, 2021
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  N. DJOKOVIC/J. Chardy
 6-3, 6-1, 6-2
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. How do you feel on your first match here for your title defense?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, it felt great.  I mean, I started the match really well.  Broke his serve.  And, yeah, was pretty much flawless match.  Especially on my service games I was very dominant.  You know, I went very quick through my service games.
 Yeah, just overall I think every shot that I executed tonight was really good and on a high level.  I'm very pleased with the way I opened up the Australian Open.  Obviously I was saying before that playing in ATP Cup in Rod Laver Arena for the first time experiencing something like that was a great lead-up, a great preparation.
 So coming into tonight's first round, I already had four matches, you know, singles, doubles, a lot of match play.  So it didn't feel like -- I didn't feel too, maybe too nervous, you know.  First match obviously opening up Grand Slam night session is not easy, but I just felt like I had plenty of time match play on the court, and that helped to start off strong.
 Q. When you have such a strong head-to-head and get off to a good start and you're comfortable, do you use a match like this in the early stages of a slam to practice certain things likes dropshots or getting to the net more often than you might otherwise do, just to groom your game for later?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yeah, well, it just depends who you play, of course, and how well do you feel on the given day.
 I felt really relaxed and comfortable on the court tonight, so I could allow myself to try out some things and coming to net.  But, you know, I thought I was very solid and didn't allow him to have time to try to do something with his forehand that obviously he was always looking to hit his forehand.  Big serve and forehand, that's his formula.
 I took that time away from him, and then, you know, he was just unable to read my shots and my serve.  I think I managed tactically to do everything correctly.
 So of course, you know, you are expected to win most of the times as a top player and kind of ease your way through the first rounds, but, you know, I don't see it that way, obviously.  Still have to do your job on the court.
 But, you know, in the days like this where you feel very comfortable, of course, you try to relax and do few more other things.  But, you know, you can't step away too much from your own comfort zone, because that's who you are.  You know, that's your game.  That's where you feel most comfortable.
 So I was sticking to the game plan in a way.
 Q. On nights like this when you do feel so comfortable, is there anything you can almost bottle for the next round and the next round, or do you just think, I hope I can feel this way for six more matches?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Yeah, I try to memorize that, you know, have kind of a muscle memory.  I think every time you experience something, it's there.
 So it's, in a way, up to you whether you are able to bring it out from the box again in the next encounter, but obviously each day brings something new.  It's not always possible to feel aligned or kind of in the zone every single match.
 So you kind of have to deal with also different conditions, different opponent, and just different factors that are outside of you holding a tennis racquet that affect you obviously mentally, emotionally.
 I feel like you always have to adapt and really be flexible, but, yes, also try to stick to something that you know works best for you.  Because in the moments when match can go either way, that's where you really, you know, go back to the basics and what feels right for you.
 Q. I'm not sure if you're aware that Nick Kyrgios was in press not long before you and he's responded to your comments.  Have you caught up on them at all?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   No.
 Q. Can I read some of what he said to you?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   You can read it, but I'm not gonna answer to anything.
 Q. He said that you're a very strange cat.  That was part of what he said.  He was bemused you weren't respecting him off the court because he feels he has done a fair bit for charity and people during the pandemic.  He ultimately said he's not going to take any slack from someone who was partying with his shirt off during the pandemic.  Is there anything you wanted to say in response to that?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   No.
 Q. For you with the experiences that you have had with linespeople, what is it like to not have linespeople?  What are your thoughts on this approach for the future?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, I think back in New York in August, US Open last year, someone asked me whether I would support the idea of introducing this kind of line call technology at every tournament, and obviously providing that the tournament is able to afford financially that kind of investment, because obviously it is an investment.
 I said that I support that, because I feel, yes, I understand that there is, you know, a tradition and history and the way we kind of got used to the line umpires being there, and I think it's nice that there is a lot of people and also volunteers with these line umpires that love tennis and love to have an opportunity to be out on the court and be close to the players and be part of a great event.
 But I think when you draw a line that generally I actually am in favor of technology.  I think it's proven to be very accurate in this particular instance.  I don't see a reason why we need the line umpires, to be honest, if we have technology like this.  I would of course keep the ball kids, but line calls I'm in favor of this technology.
 Q. Records in our sports have their own dynamic.  Players take them in different ways.  It can be argued you have set some of the most incredible records in our sports, which you did last year with the season-end wins.  You're about to get the record for weeks at No. 1.  Your records against Roger and Rafa, what you have done at the Masters.  Of your records, what gives you the most satisfaction of your records?  Where do you think they hold a place in your game and in our sport?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   Well, you know, I have been fortunate, without a doubt, to experience a lot of success and break records in our sport that I obviously love and am very passionate about it.
 So of course I am always motivated and inspired to achieve big goals and break records.  I mean, I would lie if I say that's not, you know, something that I'm thinking about or that my attention is not going that way.
 Of course it is.  I mean, I have been very transparent about the fact that I, you know, one of the biggest goals is to try to reach the No. 1 of all time weeks' record, and I'm getting closer and closer to that one.
 So obviously that's a kind of a lifetime achievement for me.  And Grand Slams, as well.  Of course the Masters events, I think the 1000 events over the years I have managed to be very consistent and win a lot of titles there.  Those are the biggest events that we have on the tour other than Grand Slams.  The head-to-head records with top guys as well, to name a few.
 Obviously I'm not sure what else is out there, but I try to be a good student of the game.  I respect and study history of the game and, you know, the guys that paved the way for all of us that are here at the moment.
 I'm just very fortunate to be in this situation and position that I'm in at the moment, so I try to keep on going and obviously setting up new goals for myself, because I feel like other than passion and love that I have for the game and the biggest reason why I still play it is exactly that pure emotion that I have of enjoyment when I'm there and excitement.
 But at the same time, as a professional tennis player, I need to have goals.  So I feel, you know, over the last 15 years, everything that I have managed to achieve, I don't settle for anything less but the top of the men's game and the biggest trophies.  That's something I always aim for.  I work towards that.  And yeah, I'm still lucky to be where I am.  Let's see what the future holds.
 Q. Is there a record of an opponent of yours that you particularly admire?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:   I respect all of my opponents' records.  I think especially Roger and Rafa, what they have achieved over the years.  They are legends of our sport, and I admire them a lot.  As I said, they have positively affected my game and my growth, my development and all my success, you know, wouldn't be what it is if these two guys were not there.
 So I have had tremendous rivalries with these two guys and we still keep on going.  But I don't want any of their success, if you know what I mean.  I'm not jealous of their success or anything like that.  I try to build my own authentic career and my own success, and I stick to that.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT