BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 18, 2009
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/S. Wawrinka
  7-6, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. He's a formidable opponent. In the interview after the match, you said that you had some luck. What was the main component that you put into the game that prevailed in this match?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: In these matches, you always learn something new. For me, it was a really big challenge coming back in the second set and winning the two tiebreakers against a tough opponent was a really good struggle and good fight.   
 So I'm happy that, overall I don't think I played great, but winning two tiebreakers and hanging in there, which was I think the biggest advantage I had, and just, you know, waiting for the chance, and I used when I needed to use it.   
  
  Q. Have you had a match end like that with a camera making the decision?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I actually had it in the finals of Dubai. It was the same thing: Match point, serving an ace and Hawk-Eye again.   
  
  Q. Hawk-Eye is your friend?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, Hawk-Eye, yeah.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like sometimes you have to push yourself to play more offense?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes, I do. You know, there are certain moments. It's just that it happens that during the match I start to be more defensive for no reason.   
 I started really well, and I had an easy forehand for 4-Love. Since I missed this chance I started going downhill, as I said, for no reason. Just have to keep playing the way I played, the way I started. This has become a little issue. But, look, as I said, you know, you win when you don't play well, and this is a big thing.   
  
  Q. When do you know that you're playing well? What things in your game clicks in a way that makes you feel like you're there?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, just it's a very mental game, you know. I think I'm quite fit right now. I feel okay physically.   
 It's just that once I start believing in my game, in my strokes, once I start being offensive and playing the game I always played, stepping in, staying close to the line, that's why where I feel most comfortable. Then I start using my chances and I start hitting the ball well and making more variety. It's all about confidence.   
 But if you step back and wait for an opponent to make a mistake, it can come, but there is 50/50 chance as well. You know, if he decides to step in, then you're risking more. So I like to have things in my control more.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you're playing at a level to win this tournament yet?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, look, I'm going really match by match. I know I've started not that convenient in Dubai. I played quite bad first two matches. Then I started playing better and better. Then I played really well towards the end of the tournament.  
 So I strongly believe that it can happen here.   
  
  Q. You gained an awful lot of information in a very few years. Is your association using you to pass on this good data to young players in Serbia coming up?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Depending on what information are you thinking of. (Laughter.)  
I've gave a lot of information from my private life as well.   
  
  Q. I'm talking about tennis-wise?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I'm quite open.   
 Well, look, Serbia really lives for tennis now. I think this is the moment where we have to create the tennis system in our country where we can develop a lot of young kids.   
 I ensure [sic] you there as a lot talent and a lot of great kids with big desire and great mentality. It's just a matter of creating a good system.   
 From my point of view, I can help, but I cannot help a lot, you know, because I'm doing this professionally, so I travel all around and I cannot be there to help all those kids. This is a job of association, federation.  
  
  Q. Looking ahead to playing Andy. What are your thoughts on that?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, you know, it's never easy playing against Andy in States, that's for sure. He loves playing on these hard courts. We had a lot of really tough matches in last year, year and a half. Really close ones.   
 So, you know, I wouldn't rate myself as favorite in that match for sure. But, you know, it could go either way. It will be a big challenge for both of us.  
  
  Q. You said Serbia lives for tennis. Can you give us the one or maybe two most incredible examples of this?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I don't know if you had the chance to see after me winning Australian Open and Ana Ivanovic winning Roland Garros. 15, 20,000 people were in the main square in city hall in Belgrade. We were in the balcony, and 20,000 people came to greet us.   
 These things are really emotional, you know, from my perspective. I really appreciate that. The people there, they show their respect and appreciations for what you have achieved, and it means a lot. It gives you more motivation to repeat the same success.  
  
  Q. And did the president or prime minister have any kind words?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: They're always supportive. They really have a great understanding for sport in general. For tennis, they always come to greet you and send, of course, letters of congratulations. It's fantastic to be together.   
  
  Q. What makes Roddick such a tough opponent? Obviously he's been at the top of the game and he has a big serve. Is it more about the way he's willing to fight than anything else?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah. He's a great fighter. Look, as you said, this is where he feels most comfortable: Hard courts, United States, couldn't be better for him.   
 But I already had the chance to win against him in the States. It was in the US Open last year. I played a fantastic match.   
 So, you know, his biggest weapon is obviously his serve, and he relies on that. He improved a lot, I think, working with Larry. He's more aggressive on the groundstrokes, more aggressive in the return, which makes him now more dangerous player.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like you are, match in and match out, now playing more consistently at a high level than in the beginning of the year when we saw some ups and downs, or are you still sort of struggling to find a high level all the time?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I just -- you always try to keep that consistency going on all the time. It's not possible that you're always performing your best tennis, except if you're Federer or Nadal. But, in general, you always try your best.   
 I've had some ups and downs in the start of the year, but now things are going better for me. I've won the tournament on hard courts and won these three matches here. Just have to keep believing in myself and keep being positive, and that's it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT