TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 13, 2008
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  J. TSONGA/N. Djokovic
1-6, 7-5, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You lost to Tsonga three times. Why?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Because he was playing better.

 Q. Any more reasons?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No. 

 Q. In the third set you lost 1-6. Have you ever considered when you lose this match, you won't get the chance to win all the prize money?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No, I wasn't thinking about that. 

 Q. Despite tonight's loss, you seem much more comfortable here this year than last year when you didn't even win a set. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, well, I feel happy because I am through to the semifinal, which was main goal. 
 I got every match serious and wanted to win this one. He played after -- in the third set especially he played well. I made some unforced errors. 
 The important thing is that I'm through. I achieved everything I wanted in this tournament. Well, not still. It's not the end. I think I have enough quality to go further.

 Q. For about a set and a half you looked like you were playing right at the top level of your game. How would you assess the overall performance?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I just pay attention on the positive things. I know that I played really well in the set and a half, and I had some break balls. Well, he played well on that break balls and served well. 
 In general, I'm happy. It's not that, okay, after every loss you're maybe a little bit disappointed. But I'm focused on my semifinal match, which is most important. 

 Q. Last year we saw more of a fun side or joking side to you. This year you seemed more subdued or more serious. Is that something you were conscious about? Can you explain it?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No, not really. Not too much. Maybe you weren't paying too much attention this year on me. You weren't seeing my practices. We have a lot of fun. 
 But this is the way I am. I think every person is different individually. Everybody has a different character, personality. Somebody likes to be serious all the time and look at this as a job, and I respect that. 
 But me, too. You know, when I'm on the court, I try to focus myself as much as I can. And then after, you know, enjoy the life. 

 Q. There was a pretty girl sitting in the stands beside your coach. Is she your girlfriend? We don't have you ever introduce her in the public. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: She's a Miss Universe of 2006. 

 Q. If Murray beats Federer tomorrow, it will be the first time ever we don't see Roger in the semifinal in the Masters Cup. Do you think it's going to be a new era for the younger generation to do some big breakthroughs?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, it's good for the sport to see young guys coming up and doing well. Certainly Roger is still one of the best players in the world, even though he was not on the top of his shape this year. 
 But it's a big challenge for him to come back on the first part of the year. But now the range of the players who are candidates for the top spots of the world is bigger. You have Murray, Tsonga, Del Potro, the younger guys. It's going to be interesting next year. 

 Q. It seems that Roger and even Rafa, who is not here, Andy Murray, are getting more of the attention this week than yourself. Do you prefer to go under the radar, not be the focus?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, yeah. You know, sometimes it's better not to have too much attention because it kind of releases the pressure which you usually have as a big favorite, so you can play maybe a little bit more relaxed. 
 It's quite important when you're relaxed on the court and you can really perform your best tennis. 

 Q. You just mentioned you have no pressure, when you don't have all the attention, you will play better. Today Tsonga played better because he got more support from the crowd. Is it because he has no pressure at all because he didn't qualify? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, yes. You know, I said I was in a quite similar situation last year when I played the third match. I just relaxed and tried to play my best tennis. 
 But it's not easy. You know, this is the tournament of the best eight players in the world. Every match is difficult. You got to give your best in order to win it. 
 He had the bigger support of the crowd, but I don't blame them. He's a good player, an interesting player, plays with a lot of emotion. So, yeah, he deserved to win today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT