TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 11, 2008
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  N. DJOKOVIC/N. Davydenko
7-6, 0-6, 7-5

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. First out last year and first in semifinals this year. Do you feel happy right now with the breakthrough of this year? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, for sure I'm happy. It's a great achievement for me, going through the semifinals, of course, which kind of gives me a relief of the upcoming match. 
 But as I said on the court, every match is important, so I will try to win against Tsonga even though we both have not much to lose. I already qualify and he has no chance of qualifying, so result-wise it's not really important. 
 But as I said, every match is crucial here.

 Q. What went through your mind at the start of the second set? Obviously a big difference to what went on in the first set. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I was quite nervous and a bit shaky on the start of the match, in the first set and the second set as well. I was a break down already on the first service games I played. 
 This is something that shouldn't be happening that often, especially at events like that. But I managed to come back, and I'm just happy to win the matches like this. 
 Davydenko is a really difficult opponent wherever you play him. He stays close on the baseline and likes to play aggressive. If he's in a good rhythm, then he's one of the toughest opponents on the tour. He was stepping in and using his opportunities, but I just wasn't myself in that second set and I lost that desire and played very bad. 
 So losing the set 6-Love is not a good thing if you're coming into the third set. I was a bit lucky in 1-0 in the third set, but then served well in the important moments. That's all that matters. 

 Q. After the first match you said you learned so much from last year, even though you didn't win a match. Could you please elaborate a bit? What did you learn from last year's experience, because we see a big difference between two years? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I learned I shouldn't lose that many matches. But every event you play and every match you play is a new experience and a new challenge, and you just have to accept it that way and take the best out of it. 
 So last year wasn't that much fun for me, haven't won a single set. But I gained that experience. It's different this year, because I'm coming here as a Grand Slam winner and more matured player, stronger mentally and physically on the court.
 When you have more confidence and believe more in yourself, and of course, you're physically well-rested and fit for challenges, then things are going more smoothly. 

 Q. Some comments or your next opponent, Tsonga, because he's at edge of repeating what you have been through last year. I'm sorry we keep talking about that. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes, well, he certainly doesn't want to finish the way I finished last year. He was a bit unlucky in those two matches, lost 7-6 in the third and now two tiebreaks today. He was playing well, but just in the certain moments he made some unforced errors, so he certainly is unhappy a little bit. 
 But on the other hand, he's been struggling with injuries a little bit, and physically he's maybe a bit tired playing, winning Bercy. But I know what's the feeling. Last year I lost the first two matches. I lost any chance of qualifying for semifinals, but I wanted to win that third match, and I'm expecting the same thing from him. 

 Q. I'm just wondering what your thoughts are on the financial crisis and how it would pan out moving into the next season, given that your family has actually come out and rescued one of the tournaments. How do you see it pan out? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, financial crises are global, and certainly hit the tennis world as well. But this is not that I've been -- this is not the topic that I've been thinking about that much, because my job is to win the matches on the court. With the winning, all the side things come, you know. 
 So I don't think it's going to affect that much to the tennis world in the upcoming year. Certainly the financial situation is something that you're worried about always individually. You want to take care of your money. You want to place it in a safe spot. 
 So the world has gone a bit crazy with the crisis in last couple of months, but I'm sure it's going to stabilize very soon. 

 Q. Well, big news. There was a rumor reported by the English newspapers that you were almost kidnapped by some people because of the problem in Kosovo. Is that true, or how do you comment about this?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I wouldn't like to comment on that at all. 

 Q. Anything?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT