XXIX OLYMPIC GAMES
August 15, 2008
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  R. NADAL/N. Djokovic
6-4, 1-6, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. I know it's a stupid question, but how are you feeling at the moment?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, the loss is something that you never wish to happen to yourself, of course. It doesn't feel great, that's for sure. But a loss is a part of the sport. It was a semifinals, so I had a great tournament so far. Even today I think I played well. 
 You know, the positive side of today's match is that from the second part of the first set and whole second set and partly third, I really played aggressive. This is what I am. This is what my game all about. Hopefully I can use it tomorrow. 

 Q. You've beaten Rafa four times. But is Rafa a little bit your black beast? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: No. 

 Q. The final shot at the end, I presume you just couldn't believe you missed it? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, well, these shots, you just have to make them, you know, without thinking. My legs stopped and I heard the people screaming during both of the overheads I had. So a bit distractions and the negative outcome. 

 Q. What has been your experience in the Olympics, playing in this tennis tournament? I know you still have a medal to play for, but tell us what it means to you playing in the Olympics?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: It's a very special event. I was saying before that a medal here would mean a lot to me. Even if I win a bronze tomorrow, medal is medal. This is something I'm going to remember for all of my life. 
 It's a great event. I mean, in everything in general, 10, 15,000 athletes around the world, the best ones. You can dine with them. You can look other sports. It's an experience of a lifetime. 
 You just try to take the best out of it. There's been some things, let's say, here in this tennis tournament that are really not made me or other players comfortable, playing late for example. Every night I'm going to the bed at 3:30, 4:00 in the morning, you know, not night. The next day I have to play about 5, 6, 7. So this is a bit strange for me. I never experienced that. 
 You know, it's a situation I'm in. 

 Q. How will you go to sleep today? Will you think of missing the opportunity for the final or will you try to prepare for tomorrow's mission for the bronze medal?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, the thinking about this match is going to stay. That's no doubt, of course. You will always have this being sad feeling. 
 But, again, I have to push myself to think positive and be ready for tomorrow. 

 Q. There was a big change in momentum from the first to second, then momentum changed back in the third. Was that just one of those things or were there reasons for it?
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, you know, I expected him to come back, anyhow, to start playing -- to raise the level of the game. That's why, you know, he's the best in the world now. Obviously he's been playing the best tennis this year. He's mentally very strong player. When you win 6-1 against him, obviously he wants to change something in order to play better the set after. 
 So this is what I expected. I tried to maintain my aggressivity and momentum. I managed to do it but still had some chances. He had some chances. We were holding serves. You know, in that last game, I dropped it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT