XXIX OLYMPIC GAMES
August 11, 2008
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  N. DJOKOVIC/R. Ginepri  
6-4, 6-4  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. I guess that's a nice way to start a tournament like the Olympics. Pretty comfortable result out there.   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes, I'm happy to get through, obviously, in the first round in straight sets. I was aware of the fact that Ginepri is a tricky player. He took Roger Federer to three sets in Cincinnati last week. We all know this is his favorite surface. He takes the ball very early. He's being aggressive.   
 What I tried is to change the pace and take control of the match. I served really well and I'm really happy with the performance.   
  
  Q. How ambitious are you about the gold medal?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, any medal I think in the Olympics for me will be a huge success, even though if I don't make it, you know, just being here is a success as well in general. I'm being surrounded with the best athletes around the world. Gives you a privilege. That means you succeeded in your career, in your life, being in the Olympics, of course, being part of the great show. But I think I have good quality to be one of the favorites, try to fight for the medal.   
 It's Olympics. You know, anything can happen. The court is pretty fast. As you could see, we didn't have much rallies. But I'm happy. I didn't expect to play that well. So hopefully I can win one of the medals for my country.   
  
  Q. Is the Olympics what you expected, the opening ceremony, and these first few days?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Usually when you expect the best, and when you expect something extraordinary, usually you get disappointed with something bad going on. But this was more than extraordinary. It's very difficult to describe it with the words, meaning opening ceremony, thinking about that, and about Olympics in general all together.   
 You dine every day with 10,000 people, you know, in the huge area. You exchange experiences. You talk about other sports, something else, just not tennis and things about tennis. So I think this is something that we experience one or maybe just couple of times in our lives. So trying to use this as much as I can.   
  
  Q. Some of the other players have been commenting on how other athletes have been approaching them for pictures and autographs. What has been the experience for you? Have you been "mobbed" by other athletes? Have you done it in reverse?  
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, both. I've tried. I mean, as I said, I've tried to enjoy the experience as much as I can. The opportunities that I have been given to be here and be surrounded with the top athletes is just unique. So it's true that I see, I mean, people like Kipketer, LeBron James, Kobe Bryant, Yao Ming, all the top athletes in the world. There are few of thousands that I see each day.   
 So, yes, I do ask them for pictures because for me this is the memory which is going to stay in my life forever. And, of course, I do get approached from the other athletes to get asked for the picture. You know, tennis is played 10 months out of 12 in the year at least. So they see a lot of us on the TV obviously.   
 But, yeah, it's a great experience.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT