PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 17, 2008
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  How is your level of confidence at this point of the tournament? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, it's good.  You know, I think I gained something in my game.  I figure out with experience how I should play in the first couple of rounds.  I was playing the first two matches as much as I needed to.  I didn't push myself too much and didn't play on my top, top level. 
 But, you know, it's two times in the first two rounds straight-set victory.  It's very much needed.  And it's good that I rationally spending energy, and I'm happy for that. 

 Q.  Will you need your top, top level for the next match against Guillermo Cañas? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Yeah, I think so.  Now, of course, upcoming matches are, you know, getting more difficult.  Of course it's normal.  You're getting to the final stages of the tournament and the players are better. 
 I played Guillermo one time in Miami last year, and I played one of my best tennis, I think, in that final.  It was a three-set victory.  Seems easy, but still, you know, you got to really work hard for it. 
 He's kind of player that he's not going to give you a lot of free points, unforced errors.  He's going to make you work for it.  I expect that, I know. 
 The good thing is that I have another day to, you know, get ready, recover, and get to that match 100%. 

 Q.  Considering the fact that he's the one who had beaten Federer last year here and then repeated in Miami where you won, how concern you might be because of the fact that he might also know your game and he knows very well obviously Federer's game? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, about Federer, that's another story.  We don't need to talk about this.  One thing is for sure:  He likes playing here.  He won against the best player of the world back to back tournaments and he reached the finals in Miami, but I played better than him. 
 I played finals in Indian Wells and I won Miami, so I don't have to be concerned so much.  I think I have enough confidence and enough motivation and I'm matured and I have more experience. 
 So, you know, we know each other pretty well.  There is no secrets.  But now whoever is more focused for the game is going to win. 

 Q.  Do you know the schedule for the rest of the event?  No now that you're one of the top players, do you get talked to about when you might want to start and how the days will work out? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, yeah.  You can't -- you put your request, of course.  Whenever you want to play or you think it's the best for you. 
 But it doesn't need to -- it doesn't mean that you're going to get that certain period or you know, scheduled match when you wish to be, because we have to as well consider the TV, the tournament, the fans. 
 A lot of things.  It's a lot of details that we need to take care of. 

 Q.  What are your requests? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, they're not all the same.  Depending on the date. 

 Q.  You obviously now will play on Wednesday.  Do you know what happens after that, if you win? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, we'll take it easy. 

 Q.  Do you know if you play Thursday and if you would have another day and play Friday, Saturday, Sunday? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  No, no.  I just watch my next match. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT