SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 28, 2008
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  You seemed to be turning that match around quite nicely.  2-Love in the final set, and then there was that time violation warning.  What did you make of that instance, and how much did it affect the course of the whole match?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, it's, you know, I didn't focus myself in that moment.  Obviously, the time violation and a lot of different things affected on my service game loss.   
 But, you know, that's okay.  It's all part of the game.   
  
  Q.  You could say different things.  Are you able to say?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, the shoe, for example.  In the last point my shoe lace was broken.  But, that -- I don't find excuses.  It's just that he deserved to win.   
  
  Q.  What physical condition did you come into this tournament having had such a long tournament in Indian Wells?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, I tried to recover, but obviously I was a little bit tired from the start.  But it was okay, you know.  I could play, but the thing is that I didn't know the way he's playing.  It was our first meeting, and I never saw him playing before.  He surprised me with the way he was serving.   
 I wasn't moving on my returns good enough, and obviously that resulted in easy service games.  He was winning too easy in the first set his service games, and I wasn't aggressive enough.   
 Then when I needed to use my chances in the third set, I made some unforced errors which were really crucial.   
  
  Q.  Were you surprised at how well Kevin Anderson was able to defend from the back of the court?  Because I think everybody was expected you to win, the majority of those baseline exchanges, but it didn't always work out that way.   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, I made some unforced errors and I was maybe going for too much.  Obviously, he's really tall, and with that height you expect him not to move so well.  But he obviously has a good coordination.  He has a good feel for the ball.  So he's a good player.   
  
  Q.  In those circumstances when you do get a chance, you really have to take it.  I suppose you'll think just when you had the opportunities you didn't really impose yourself.   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Yeah.  Yeah, well, I was -- in that moment I was nervous.  Maybe I went for some shots too much, and he was wisely waiting for my mistakes.  That was a crucial point.   
  
  Q.  How difficult is it to win these Masters Series back-to-back?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, now if I start talking about the calendar, you know, it's going to take a while.  So this is just a part of sport, and we have to deal with it the way it is.  They don't intend to change the schedule soon, so it's all the same for everybody.   
  
  Q.  In the long scheme of things, this is just a temporary setback, obviously.  Now you're looking forward to the clay court season to reassert your winning ways.  What can which expect in the next few weeks and months?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, you know, there is a lot of expectations, of course, as the third player of the world, and first player of the world this year.  I had the best results so far.  And, obviously, going to the clay, which is not my favorite surface, but still I can play good tennis.   
 The good thing about this loss is that I can get a bit longer period of preparation and vacation as well.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about particularly in this tournament that you were talking yesterday after winning here last year, you had such good memories here, to go out so early, what your emotions are?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Yeah, it's too bad.   
  
  Q.  Do you think there might be too much off-court activities in between the tournaments?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  No.   
  
  Q.  Did you know anything about Kevin before?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  No, I just said.  I never saw him before.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT