TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 15, 2007
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Obviously you had a great year.  Probably a little bit disappointing for you, the outcome here at the tournament.  Can you talk about that a little bit? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Yeah, well, I was saying before I had pretty high goals for this tournament.  Obviously playing so well, particularly on this surface, I had a good reason to hope for something big. 
 But, you know, it wasn't my week.  Unfortunately I have to finish with the three losses, which is a bit disappointing.  But, of course, I don't want to think negative.  It's been an amazing year.  Too long year. 
 Obviously, had a little negative effect on my physical strength.  So, you know, I wasn't performing the way I wanted to. 

 Q.  You came with a string in Miami winning.  After, you beat Roddick, Rafa and Federer.  I think you have opened let's say a new way for the next year. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Yeah, sure.  As I said, I opened a new page.  I try to think about something else right now.  I need to get some good rest and then have soon the preparation for the next season. 
 Of course, we go over and over again.  I am really motivated for the next year.  I have big reasons to hope for a good year again - even better than this one.  So hopefully, you know, I can remain this level of the game and hopefully to see you next year here. 

 Q.  Are you going to have some rest?  It's nearly Christmas.  Where are you going to spend the holidays? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  No, actually I'm going tomorrow for the preparation time already (smiling). 
 Of course, I'm going to have rest (laughter).  It's been a long year, as I said.  Rest is something which is necessary for me and the most important thing in this moment. 
 I'm going to go somewhere far, far away from everybody (smiling). 

 Q.  Your perception of the match today, do you feel this was your best performance here this week? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Here this week, yes, I feel.  Unfortunately it was too late and it was against a player who, you know, was obviously motivated even more in this match.  He had the big chances to qualify for the semis.  He had to win.  Straight-set win was for him the best result, so he did it. 
 I wasn't trying to play for anybody, not for him.  I was trying to play for myself.  I knew before the match I didn't have any chances for the semifinals.  But, of course, I always try to win whenever I get to the court. 
 I had a pretty good match today.  I show a lot of skill and a lot of good points.  I had some chances, but, you know, I didn't use them.  It just wasn't my week.  You know, we look positive in the future. 

 Q.  Speaking about resting, are you planning on working on any new impersonations during the off-season? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, it takes physical energy.  Whatever takes physical energy, I won't do it, so...  (Smiling). 
 Yeah, maybe for the next year I will prepare something new. 

 Q.  What is the best memory of this year for you?  What has been the worst memory of this year for you?  What is your dream for next year? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Is this for some magazine (laughter)?  My dream is to fly (laughter). 
 No, this year I had a lot of amazing moments and a lot of good memories.  Probably I would say that one of the most amazing feelings I had this year in memories was the US Open final when I played in front of so many people.  I felt very proud of myself.  Obviously I had a great success. 
 I had great memory as well from Montréal when I won that tournament.  But I think Grand Slam is something special, though. 
 The worst feeling, I don't want to talk about it (smiling).  I would say probably -- I don't know.  I just don't know.  I had too many good moments this year.  I don't want to think about bad things. 
 And what is my dream, you asked? 

 Q.  Yes. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, I think everybody's dream, from every tennis player, is to win a Grand Slam, of course, and to be as best as they can, of course.  But I always was dreaming to win Wimbledon 'cause I think, in my opinion, that's the tournament with the biggest tradition. 
 But, you know, the lifetime goal is to be the No. 1 player of the world.  If I don't make both, then I'm going to kill myself (laughter). 

 Q.  The record for you to play against Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal is not so good in 2007.  Two losses with each in Grand Slams.  Only one win with Roger and two wins with Rafael.  Do you think with your confidence rising up you may have better preparation for to play against the best two players in the world next year? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  I have learned a lot this year, especially against those two players, matches with those two players.  I'm not really regretting on anything I did this year.  I've said it was unexpected.  I'm just still 20 years old.  I still have to develop into the professional player, of course. 
 I'm No. 3 of the world, but still I need a little something more, you know, probably in my physical strength, try to be consistent with the results on all the surfaces 'cause we all know how dominant those two players are. 
 One thing is for sure:  I'm going to work hard in the next period so I can get ready for them and all the players in the world for next year. 

 Q.  This is your first time to Shanghai.  Give us some general comments about your first impressions of this city. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  A lot of people.  A lot of people.  Crazy traffic.  Great, great supporters, great fans. 
 It's funny, you know, because I'm first time here in China.  As I was saying before, this city has three times more people than my whole country.  It's funny, I know. 
 But it was amazing experience for me to meet a new culture, to meet a new country.  I'm really looking forward to coming here next year. 

 Q.  The other day Rafa admitted that he felt tired playing against Ferrer.  Today did you find he was playing on the same physical level he usually does or he was moving well? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  I don't think he was tired today.  He wasn't looking really on the court (laughter).  You had some unbelievable catch - especially that breakpoint on 4-3 for him second set. 
 Yeah, sometimes it's really annoying to see somebody running so much and winning the point.  But, of course, all the credit's to him.  He's a great player.  He deserves to be obviously in the semifinal.  Of course, it's still not over. 
 But, you know, he's just a big fighter.  He doesn't want to let you win even one point.  He really fights all the way through.  So that makes him one of the best players in the world. 

 Q.  We all know Rafael Nadal is also 21, the same as you. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  One year older (smiling). 

 Q.  Do you feel he always appears to be more mature than those who are also 20?  What do you think is his secret of being so good at the Grand Slam and all the big occasions? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, depends, of course.  If we are talking about his maturity on the court, he reached the very high level of the tennis already in age of, what, 16, 17.  He matured much faster than his generation.  You know, he's exception. 
 Of course, you don't see many players like that reaching second place of the world already at the age of 18, 19.  He's already there for many years.  He won three Grand Slams.  He played a lot of finals, semifinals, so for sure he deserves to be there. 

 Q.  Not an easy question to answer, but you may try.  About the betting situation. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Italians, right (smiling)? 

 Q.  Let's say someone approaches you and asks you to lose a match.  Of course you would say not, I guess.  But what do you think you should do at that moment?  Go and say to someone that someone approached you?  Would you be afraid to do that because maybe he's a criminal and he could do some damage to you, to your family?  That is the question. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Okay, sir. 

 Q.  Nobody knows what to do when you get yourself in that situation.  That's why I ask you.  Everyone says you should announce it, but then nobody knows what to do.  Would you know it?  The rule is to call an 800 number or to say to the ATP or to talk to a policeman.  But actually, is it a case of cautions?  This is the question.  I'm sorry, but it's difficult.  I don't know how to answer myself, to be honest. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, it's a pretty long question, first of all.  Second of all, I really cannot say how I would react in that situation because I never been in that situation, and I never wish to be in that situation because this is an individual sport.  This is a great sport, and I just wish that this sport is not going in that direction. 
 Of course, there were talks about a lot of players getting involved in the bettings.  I can't blame anybody.  I can't accuse anybody because I'm not sure.  Nobody's hundred percent sure what is happening. 
 In my case, nobody ever approach me, so I don't have, you know, further comments. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT