ROGERS MASTERS
August 11, 2007
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  So, it was a tough game today.  What do you want to tell us about the game? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, obviously, if you play against No. 2 of the world, it is a very tough game, you know.  You cannot get an easy match against him on any surface. 
 I played him couple of times before, and I won only one time on this surface.  Obviously, I go into the match with some positive thoughts.  And I managed to be aggressive from the start, and I knew that I have to be in control in the match.  So I'm really happy to get through in straight sets. 

 Q.  What is your feeling about playing Roger? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Yes, well, you know, I'm going to play against No. 1 of the world tomorrow.  I played him couple of times.  I lost every match.  So I will not have anything to lose tomorrow.  I'm going to be motivated for sure. 
 Certainly he's a favorite in tomorrow's match.  But as I said, nothing to lose, and try to recover as much as I can and be ready.  And with the way I played throughout all this week, I had some really impressive matches.  So I can say that I'm feeling really confident, and I have some chances tomorrow. 

 Q.  It seems your matches with Roger have been pretty close, three sets, that sort of thing.  Do you feel that you have progressed enough to, you know, get a first win against him? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Yeah, we haven't played since Dubai this year.  Before Indian Wells, we played at three sets.  So, you know, I improved a lot since then.  Looking at the results, really, I managed to get to the third place of the world, and won couple of tournaments and the most important one in Miami, the major. 
 So, you know, always in the most important moments he plays his best tennis, that's why he's No. 1 of the world and everything looks so easy when you watch him.  But, again, I hope with the way I play I can give him some challenge, and, of course, with all that crowd, you know, I hope they'll stand behind me, because tonight the atmosphere was really, really fantastic. 

 Q.  Can you talk a bit about all those breakpoints you have to save?  How difficult was it to keep focused during that time? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, it was.  I knew that Nadal is not going to, you know, give up any moment, even if he's losing 5-0.  So I had to keep my focus all the time.  And as I said before, be aggressive, especially in that important moments, because if I give him any chances he's going to use them, you know. 
 So we already played couple of times, and the only win I had was on this surface, so, obviously, this is my favorite surface.  And I knew that here I have more chances than him.  He was struggling on his serves, his service game, especially in that first set, and it was just a matter of time when I could break him.  So I managed to do that in the most important moment in the first and the second set. 
 I can say that today was a really impressive match, and very, very satisfied with the way I played. 

 Q.  Did you feel, not to take away from your victory, did you feel he was at his very best today?  Did you feel he played the way he usually played or moved as well as he he's moved in his previous matches against you? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, it's different.  On every surface you play him, it's different.  On clay, it's a different story because he feels best there and it's a slow surface.  So if it's to his game he's probably fittest player in today's tennis.  He can run as much as he wants.  So most of his matches he's winning because he's really stronger than the others. 
 But here, the surface is pretty fast here in Montreal.  Players were mentioning that throughout all the week.  So I knew that I have to be aggressive from the start.  And when you are in the control of the match, when you are controlling the point, you know, he feels a little bit uncomfortable and probably that's why he played some unusually bad points for him. 

 Q.  You try and end the points as quickly as possible? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, not as quickly as possible.  I didn't want to rush anywhere, you know and try because that would probably cause a lot of unforced errors.  But I was trying to be patient but aggressive at the same time.  Just try to make the opportunity for myself so I can finish the point. 
 I was lucky in some moments.  My serve was really good throughout all the week and especially today in the important moments and on the break balls I was serving my best. 

 Q.  You've talked about being surprised that you've risen in the rankings so quickly.  Are you still surprised?  When do you stop being surprised at that? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, I already stopped, you know, quite a while long ago.  But, you know, I got to this third place, but obviously, it's not accidentally that I came to the best three in the world.  You're looking at my results this year, especially on the biggest tournaments, I think I deserve to be there, and I showed my quality to everybody and just need to focus on maintaining that level. 

 Q.  Many players win at their first appearance in Montreal.  Are you going to do that tomorrow? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Excuse me, can you repeat. 

 Q.  Many players win in their first appearance in Montreal, like Nadal, Safin, can you add your name to the list tomorrow? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, I hope so.  I'm going to have the biggest challenge and most difficult opponent tomorrow to make that achievement.  But I hope for the best. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT