INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (MEN)
May 9, 2007
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Speak about the match today. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, it was very difficult match.  As you can see, Robin is a great player with a lot of talent and very, very powerful and big groundstrokes. 
 You know, for me it was difficult to find my game and to remain aggressive, because that's what he mostly like.  You know, he likes the fast rhythm and the big rallies, long rallies. 
 But I'm really happy to win in the end.  And, you know, lately I've been playing with a lot of self-confidence and I'm really happy to get through a tough one like this.  I just hope that I'll manage to recover as much as I can for another difficult match tomorrow. 

 Q.  Your feeling here is better than in Monte-Carlo with the red clay? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, I had the really long season in the States, and I didn't have enough time to get used to the clay.  It's why I -- that resulted, you know, in bad performance in Monte-Carlo.  I cannot say it was really bad, but it was, you know, I didn't play on the level I can. 
 But I use this time and the week after to prepare mostly physically so I can be ready for the continuation of clay court season.  And I'm really happy to win my fist title on the clay in Estoril. 
 I've been through a lot of difficult matches there, and conditions, but it gave me a motivation more for the continuation of this season.  I think I can make a good results on this surface. 

 Q.  First time in Rome in men's draw.  First time you play.  Qualification last you lose. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Yes, I lost in qualifications last year. 

 Q.  And today all people are for you. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Yeah.  That was fantastic really.  I couldn't believe that.  I honestly didn't expect so many people to come to my match and especially support me.  It was fantastic.  I would like to thank them.  It's fantastic atmosphere, and especially seeing the Serbian crowd as well supporting me thought all the match and even the Italians throughout all the match.  It's a great feeling. 

 Q.  Do you feel that after Miami that is the biggest one for the moment, your biggest? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Win? 

 Q.  Yeah.  Something is change around you from the people, from the public? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Yes.  You're always trying to improve yourself in the game mentally, physically, whatever.  I think I'm on the highest possible point right now in my career, and I'm playing at a high level. 
 Winning Miami gave me a lot of motivation for the big tournaments especially, because I won against No. 2 in the world and won against a lot of good players. 
 Now I prove to myself and everybody else that I have enough quality to remain and play at highest possible level. 

 Q.  More pressure? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  There is always pressure nowadays, obviously more pressure with on me because I'm No. 5 in the world and a lot of expectations.  But I'm trying not to think about it too much. 

 Q.  What do you think about the next round against Baghdatis? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, we never met on professional tour.  I lost to him one time in juniors and it's going to be very difficult match.  We're not the players who prefer mostly this surface. 
 But, you know, he was playing really well in Munich.  I think he plays semifinals last week, and here he made some good wins.  So I expect a really good match.  He's a really good player and talented as well.  It's going to be interesting, try to be physically and mentally ready for it. 

 Q.  You play after the winner one tournament? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Excuse me? 

 Q.  You won Estoril? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Yes. 

 Q.  So you must play after and is it more difficult than less difficult? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, it's much better to play, you know, with a win behind your back just a week before.  As I said before, I'm playing with a lot of confidence, and it means a lot to me that I won a tournament on this surface. 
 As I said, I started not so well in Monte-Carlo.  I have a lot of expectations behind me, and I'll -- this win means a lot because I'll -- gives me a lot of motivation to make even better results in the continuation of the season. 
 And, you know, I'm obviously tired because I had long matches and long tournament in Portugal.  But as I said, it's professional tennis and you got to get used to it if you want to stay at this level. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT