SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 28, 2007
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  With this famous victory, the best victory of your career, there probably is dancing on the streets of Belgrade as we speak (laughing)? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  I'm not so popular. 

 Q.  After what happened in Indian Wells, you were obviously very pumped up for this match.  What was your mindset coming into it? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, certainly I have to say that this is the biggest, and probably the most important victory in my career, and he's the best player I ever won against.  You know, coming from Indian Wells finals, I learned a lot of things.  You always learn a lot of things in matches like this, and my serve was really bad in the finals of Indian Wells.  I was struggling to put the serve and as well return and backhand. 
 So he used his opportunity, of course.  A player like No. 2 in the world for three years, he just uses all the opportunities he has. 
 Today I was really motivated.  I just again, didn't have anything to lose.  I'm making some unbelievable results in the last couple of months.  I'm in great shape, feeling really confident on the court.  I mean, everything worked pretty well today, everything.  Really I can say that serve was probably the best element in my game.  It's a really positive and good thing for the future. 

 Q.  Some of those rallies near the end where he's just getting ridiculous shots back, can you just talk us through this, inside your mind throughout the process of that rally, are you getting more and more nervous thinking about the number and the point? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, I think if you play quarterfinals of Masters Series against No. 2 in the world and you serve for the match, you're pretty nervous.  And especially in that last game.  I missed some shots, but still I played well, you know, it's just that I was a bit struggling.  He just was waiting for my mistakes.  Okay, he was going for some of the shots, but mostly it was my mistakes and him really fighting for the ball as you could see.  He was really running from one end to the other end of the court. 
 It's just I played at one point on deuce, I think, when he was totally out of the court, and I had the whole court, and I played to him, and he lobbed me on deuce and 6-3, 5-4 and serving.  I mean it was really unbelievable.  I just couldn't believe that I did it.  But again, you know, I'm really happy to get through it like this. 

 Q.  You played Llodra, you played Lopez, Rafa was the second left-hander.  Playing two left-handers before Rafa, did that help you a little? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  It did.  It certainly did.  You don't get too much chances to play against left-handed players.  I just played the last three matches against left-handers, and of course, it helped me a lot, because you know; okay, Llodra and Lopez are not playing like Rafa does, but you know, it's always good to practice and play some matches before you get a big match like this. 

 Q.  Murray again? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Murray again, yes.  Yeah, I'm expecting a really, really good match.  I mean again, we're playing semifinals two Masters Series in a row.  He is probably fitter than in the last one.  Two young players, it's always nice.  I think it's a great thing for tennis to see Rafael Nadal, Murray and myself playing so well and bringing something so new into tennis. 

 Q.  It's a good contrast, you attack and he defends? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Yeah, sure, sure, sure.  Well, I was just playing my game.  I'll try to do that in the next match, as well. 

 Q.  You said just there that the three of you are bringing something new to tennis? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Yes. 

 Q.  You're bringing a lot of emotion, and the crowd interaction, if you like.  Is that something that you personally want to bring, get the crowd more involved? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Yeah, I think emotions are important for the sports.  If the crowds see a lot of emotions, a lot of points and really winners and stuff like that, just a young player like Murray or myself or Nadal playing that way and being on top of the world, it's always a good thing.  It's attractive for the people.  They want to see something new. 
 I think you all had enough of the Federer winning every tournament, so it's good. 

 Q.  Which is a better way to measure yourself now, is it against a Federer, a Nadal, or is it against the Baghdadises, Murrays of your generation? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Can you repeat that? 

 Q.  Which is for you a more important measuring stick, the Federers and Nadals or -- 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, yes, I'm trying to -- you know, it's individual sports, so you just try to look on your way.  And everybody has own career and just going in that direction. 
 I'm trying to measure and compare myself to the best players in the world.  I'm not -- of course, everybody's comparing me and Andy, because we came all the way together since we were 12.  But really I'm trying to achieve, my lifetime goal is to be No. 1 in the world, so I'm really doing everything to do that.  That is my goal.  So that's what I'm working for. 

 Q.  Did you see yesterday the game when Federer and Cañas? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Yes, I saw the game.  It was a really strange game.  You know, Cañas, in a way he deserved it, really.  He was fighting a lot throughout all the match, and I think he deserves it, to be the No. 1 -- to beat the No. 1 player in the world, probably the best player ever.  Two times in a row in two weeks, it's not an easy thing. 

 Q.  Looks like you've sold every ticket in your player's box.  Who do you have there supporting you? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, that's a secret.  But I can say that one of the people are my parents and my two coaches.  And I really want to thank them and use this opportunity, because I had luck to have really people who were supporting me throughout all the career.  My parents, I have two younger brothers, as well, coming the same way like me.  So maybe in the next ten years we'll see two or three brothers in the top. 

 Q.  Have you gotten nervous before the match with the national team playing football? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Yeah, it was one all, right? 

 Q.  1-1? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  1-1?  Yeah, I mean, I know.  We were playing pretty well.  We started well, but then we lost to Kazakhstan, I don't know who else.  It's really sad when you hear something like this. 
 But no, I like other sports.  I like sports.  I give everything, I gave all my life to the sports, so I really support every sport and I watch them.  We're going to win probably the European Championship. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT