TMS - MONTE-CARLO
April 17, 2006
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  What were you thinking at one-set-all?  What was in your mind at the time? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, actually, I was thinking to continue playing my game that I played in the second set because I think that I played really, really good second set.  I had match under control, and I was just getting my game. 
 The thing is that he started to play more aggressive.  I went two meters behind a little bit.  I didn't have enough maybe courage or something to hit the winner.  And just two, three points or two, three balls decided, I think, the start of the third set and actually the whole match, 'cause I think the start of the third set was crucial. 
 Like you said, the first three games.  I had opportunity first game on 30-All, and second game I had 40-30 on my serve.  I didn't use this, and then against a player like Roger, against the best player in the world, you just have to use your opportunities when they -- when the opportunities have given.  I didn't use them, and he just used his experience.  He was playing smart, and I just made a couple of mistakes which decided the match. 
 Q.  Overall, you should be satisfied by your game today. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Yeah, yeah.  I mean, I am very satisfied with my game that I played today against Federer.  But in the other hand, I'm disappointed not because of my game, it's just because I know that I had chance to win.  That's why. 
 Like I said, couple of points decided, and my chance was today to win against Roger because it's his first match outside on the clay and I played qualifications two matches.  So, yeah, this was my chance. 
 But, anyway, this will be a big experience for me and my confidence will grow up for sure after this match 'cause I know that I played well.  Just I'm still young, so I just need to have more and more matches like this so I can learn how to play against these kind of players. 
 Q.  You are not very young. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  I mean... 
 Q.  You seem to be very mature, I should say. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Yes, yes (smiling).  With the years, yes, I am still little bit young, yeah, 18. 
 Q.  Why do you think Roger has more difficulty on clay?  What is your opinion on that? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC:  Well, he doesn't.  He plays -- he's just one of the best players ever in tennis history, that's for sure.  Everybody knows that. 
 The problem is that -- why he's so good on all kind of surfaces is that every time before the match everybody goes -- he goes to every match with already a winner, you know?  Because everybody is getting scared, "Oh, he's Roger Federer," you know.  "I cannot win against him," you know.  "He's perfect."  "I have to play something that I am not playing, something over my maximum, my limits." 
 That's how he already wins, you know. 
 But I think I started a little bit nervous today, you know, and he broke me I think 1-All first set.  I was playing and I was thinking I have to do, like I said, "something else." 
 Then I realize he's good, he's the best, but still he's not alien, you know, he's not getting everything all the winners.  He's just playing very smart game.  He's very calm.  And I started to just play with him, you know.  Played a couple of shots and make him make mistakes.  That's what I did second set, and I played very, very good.  Unfortunately, I didn't continue playing like this. 
 I think Roger, everybody knows that Roger's worst surface is clay, but still he's for sure in three best players on the clay also, you know.  You know, even I'm sure that he will get his game much better in next couple of matches, that's for sure. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT