ROLAND GARROS
June 8, 2019
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. THIEM/N. Djokovic   
6-2, 3-6, 7-5, 5-7, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  You battled hard.  Before we talk about today, play was suspended yesterday.  Could you give us your version of accounts and what time you left the grounds yesterday, please?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I don't know what time I left.  I left when they canceled the match for the day.   
 Q.  Must be a pretty painful defeat for you.  Can you point out where you think it went wrong today?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I mean, I congratulate Dominic.  He played great, especially in the important moments.  Made some really good slices and passing shots.  Yeah, he just managed to put one ball extra in the court at the end of the match.   
Heavy forehands and down the wind from one side was much easier to play the entire match.  Obviously when we came back the last time, there was a bit less wind, but still, it was a lot of advantage, so to say, playing from that one end.   
But, you know, congratulations to him.  He's playing great tennis.  He showed why he's one of the best players in the world, and I wish him best for the final.   
 Q.  We all know what you were playing for here.  Do you think did that make it more difficult?  Did that have an effect?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I mean, look, there is always something large at stake when you're one of the top players of the world and play in the biggest tournaments.  It's not any different this time.   
 Q.  Did you feel that your mental focus was as good as it usually is?  The penultimate break, people were actually surprised because that was not your best game and you seemed to be just gripping the match back at that moment.  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, it was unfortunate.  I had 30-Love and made a double fault and got him back in the game.  Yeah, it was a crucial game.  Obviously also the last game, 30-15.   
But, you know, credit to him.  He just played the right shots and put me, you know, out of the comfortable position in the court, and then he could open up as he did in the match point and finish off with a winner.   
I don't think I have done too much wrong, you know, to be honest, in the entire tournament.  This match was always going to be tough because Dominic is a fantastic player on clay, in general, but especially on clay.   
Yeah, it's just unfortunate, you know, these kind of matches, one or two points decide a winner.   
 Q.  There were a lot of interruptions.  Difficult to concentrate when you are coming back?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah.   
 Q.  I don't know if contact lenses also were bothering you yesterday, because normally when it's raining and it's windy is not easy to play with those.  I'd like to know if there were some other reasons why -- I don't think you did perform at your best, but even if...  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yeah, I mean, obviously when you're playing in hurricane kind of conditions, you know, it's hard to perform your best.  You know, it's really just kind of surviving in these kind of conditions and trying to hold your serve and play, you know, one ball more than your opponent in the court.   
That's what it felt like playing yesterday, to be honest.  It is what it is.  You know, I played great tennis, I think, throughout most of the clay court season.  And here I didn't drop a set until semis.   
As I said, look, playing against Dominic, you cannot expect, you know, and always hoping that you can win and win in straight sets, but it's highly likely that it's going to be close match as it was.   
As I said, I don't want to point out some reasons or find excuses for this loss.  I mean, he took it, he won it, and well done to him.   
 Q.  Can you compare the conditions you played from yesterday to today?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: One of the worst conditions I have ever been part of.  That's all I can tell you.   
 Q.  Was today any better than yesterday?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: When we came back, last five, six games, yeah.   
 Q.  Were you happy last night that the match was suspended, or do you think it should have continued?  What exact reason did organizers give you for the suspension?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I don't know.  You can ask them.  I don't know.   
 Q.  But what did they tell you?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I don't know.  You can ask them.   
 Q.  Is there a point when you think it's just too windy to play?  Should there be limits?  There aren't any limits in the rules and...  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: There is no rules.  What I was explained yesterday on the court in the first set when I asked the supervisor, he came on the court and he said as long as there are no flying objects coming to the court, we're good.   
I didn't know that umbrella is not a flying object, which flew in in the first game of the match, but that's their decision.  I guess they know tennis better.   
 Q.  How much are you thinking with the short turnaround, also playing later today, that even if you get out of this match with a win that your chances of being able to come back tomorrow and play a challenge like Nadal in five sets...  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I don't know.  I don't know.  I can't answer that question, because I lost, so...   
 Q.  I realize you have just walked off the court, but do you think you might play an event before Wimbledon?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I don't know.  To be honest, really.  I don't know now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT