ROLAND GARROS
June 3, 2019
Novak Djokovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. DJOKOVIC/J. Struff   
6-3, 6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  This question is about your last four matches you have not lost more than four games in a set and only lost four twice.  I'm just curious, how do you stay prepared and ready for the inevitably tense moments you'll face, break points, set points, when you're kind of cruising along through the draw?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I don't mind cruising along, to be honest (smiling).  I have plenty of experience, I think, dealing with situations where you're facing break points or where it's tense.   
I have played plenty of, I think, tight matches in my career that I can rely on that experience.  You know, I think it's good to be tested, you know, from that perspective, but at the same time, it's also good to cruise along and kind of conserve the energy for what's coming up.   
 Q.  I just wanted to know, if you continue to play a high level of tennis at Roland Garros, will you be satisfied, or will you be only truly satisfied if you win the Roland Garros trophy?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I am satisfied so far with my game.  I mean, I reached the quarterfinals and played as closest to my best tennis on clay as I think I can be at the moment.  I'm really pleased with every aspect of my game.   
So everything is coming together beautifully.  I'm motivated to fight for the trophy, yes.  I mean, that's why I'm here.  But it's still a long way to go.   
 Q.  Fabio could be your opponent next round.  I wonder if you were surprised by his win in Monte-Carlo?  Which part of his game do you think he improved the most in the last few months?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, Fabio is one of the most talented players on the tour for many years already.  I think he lacked consistency, I think, with his results over the years.   
He was top 15 some years ago, and then, you know, he was kind of up and down.  Clay was always his favorite surface.  It seems like things are coming together for him in the last year and a half.  His ranking and his results are showing that.  I mean, he's on the verge of top 10 for the first time in his career.   
He definitely has the game for big things.  I'm not really surprised with his win in Monte-Carlo, because I'm familiar with his potential, with his strengths, with what he can do on clay, especially.   
It was just a matter of time when things will come together for him so that he can perform as well as he did on clay in Monte-Carlo and also here.  Seems like he's been playing really well.  He seems focused.   
Obviously if I get to play him, that would be the first matchup after a long time.  You know, we haven't played each other for years.  I look forward to it.   
 Q.  You said after your match with Caruso that it was a little bit tougher than you were expecting.  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Yes.   
 Q.  Today Struff started quite strongly, but it seemed like you flipped a switch and he couldn't handle you for the rest of the match after that.  Is that how you felt?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I think obviously the crucial breaking point was break and 4-3, new balls actually, and he missed couple of first serves.  I had some really good plays, broke his serve 4-3, 5-3, served out the set 6-3.   
As you said, there was a couple of really close games at the beginning, it was 3-All, we were winning our service games quite comfortably, but he was being very aggressive, not making a lot of unforced errors, and then match turns around in one game, you know.  After that, you know, I started reading his serve better, got a break in the first game of second set, and, you know, that obviously gave me wings.   
It didn't seem like he was playing confidently after that.  It seemed like he struggled a lot to connect his game, so to say.  He tried, but I thought I probably elevated my game for another, you know, level or two and played perfect second and third set.   
 Q.  Before the tournament, some players like to have some victory like Sascha did last week by winning in Geneva or Paire winning in Lyon.  On the contrary, you seem to be more and more focused on big events, especially the Grand Slam.  Would you say at this stage of your career, you don't necessarily need some victory for playing your best tennis in the Grand Slam or is it more a question of being fresh physically, mentally?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I think it's both.  Yes, I don't think I need to play week before the Grand Slam starts.  I have done that maybe just few times in my career.  I have done it actually in Eastbourne before Wimbledon, was it 2017.  And, you know, most of the years that I had on the tour I have been part of the top group of players on the rankings, and I think most of the top players are actually not participating in tournaments before the Grand Slam.   
I mean, Sascha probably didn't, you know, was not satisfied with his results in the big events before.  He probably didn't have too many matches, so he wanted to have more matches.  So that's usually the case why players are playing.   
You know, the reasons are obviously you want to get yourself ready to the conditions.  Grand Slam is best of five.  It's different.  You know, you also have a lot of different commitments off the court with your sponsors and just getting yourself attuned in every sense to perform your best.   
 Q.  You had many big battles against Stan in Grand Slams.  I wonder what you think about the way he's playing this week?  It seems he's back to his best.  Were you surprised?  Did you watch any of the match against Stefanos?  
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Stan is a big-match player.  You know, he's one of these players that, you know, throughout his career just managed to find their best game when it was most needed, you know.   
He's mentally very strong.  I'm not surprised that he's back at his best.  I have seen some parts of yesterday's match, especially the end.  I mean, both of them were winners.   
I mean, both of these guys produced some amazing tennis in phenomenal atmosphere and fighting spirit and respect to each other, which is great to see in the end at the net how they embraced each other, which is beautiful.   
Stan is showing why he's "the man" (smiling).  He's three-time Grand Slam winner.  We cannot forget that.  He's a top guy, and he loves to play big matches.  It's great to see him back.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT