MAJOR LEAGUE SOCCER MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 10, 2020
Nicolas Lodeiro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Wanted to ask the chemistry that you have with Jordan and Raúl together as an attack.  Can you share any insight on how you guys were able to quickly form that chemistry and become so lethal?
NICOLAS LODEIRO:   Yeah, we have chemistry in the field because you can watch this, by the more important for us, we have a good chemistry outside the field in the locker room.  I think we have a very good teammates in the team.  I think this is the more important for us.
Q. What about the challenge and difficulty of each game prepares you for any scenario in the final against Columbus?
NICOLAS LODEIRO:   I think that this season was so strange.  We were faced with very many different situations in that sense, I think we are ready for whatever comes our way.  We obviously want the games to go our way to score a lot of goals.  That's not always the case.  The example is Minnesota where we were able to come back within 15 minutes but that doesn't always happen and that's not always a guarantee.  We can't ever take our guard down.  We must always come out and learn from all the games.
Q. When we were talking to Columbus, they talked a lot about their midfield and how dynamic it is.  Can you just talk about the midfield battle that you expect to happen on Saturday?
NICOLAS LODEIRO:   We know Columbus have many good players in the midfield, but I think more important from Columbus is they have a very good team, not just midfielders.  We need to be aware with all Columbus team because they defend very well and also they have a striker, very good, and very good moment, and also, can have a chance.  But for us, the more important is in this time, we must -- of course we think about Columbus, because it's our rival, but the more important is we need to think about our team.
Q. What are your strengths as a team captain in order to win this important match against Columbus Crew?
NICOLAS LODEIRO:   It's not just the 11 who start, but also have a good group including the guys coming on the second half.  It's about incentivizing them to enjoy these moments.  We don't always play these type of games, these type of finals and manage the pressure they will all be feeling.
About my strengths, it's about keeping the team united regardless of what happens, and I always think to help the team for everybody to give their best.
Q. What's next for you after the final?  We know that you have a contract for 2021.
NICOLAS LODEIRO:   The answer is this season my focus was the year this year, knowing that it could be the last, but my focus was always on the season in front of us and about enjoying the happiness of this moment.  After Saturday, I can tell you I am very much looking forward to going to Hawai'i and to see my family because after this very difficult year, I think we all want to be near our family.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT