PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2010
Keith Ohr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Just speak about this first time experience for you in the PGA Championship. 
 KEITH OHR: I don't even know how to put it in words. Fun, it's just been amazing to play along with these guys, playing a golf course like this, and having my family here. It's just been a once in a lifetime experience maybe, you know, it's just been that good.

 Q. You see the difference, obviously, what you have to prepare for when you come to a major and the course conditions, atmosphere, does it all enter into what you anticipated?
 KEITH OHR: Yes, maybe it's a little bit harder than I thought, maybe the weather conditions had something to do with that, but one thing I noticed is that everybody hits it good and I don't know the difference between who is on the leaderboard and who is not, but it seemed like to me everyone hits it good, it's just getting it done that particular day and that particular week.

 Q. Around the greens, things like that?
 KEITH OHR: Yeah, putting. Putting seems to be the biggest difference.

 Q. The green speeds here a lot faster?
 KEITH OHR: It is. Today the greens picked up quite a bit from yesterday. So it's hard. That's all you can say.

 Q. What can you tell me about the people that followed you who know you, your friends and family, how many were here for that?
 KEITH OHR: I probably had 10, 15 people here following me and just amazing to take this in with them. We rented a house for the week, and to be able to take it in all together, it's been awesome. 

 Q. Tell me about also your thoughts on the future and coming back to a national championship and maybe trying to qualify again for one of these PGA Championships?
 KEITH OHR: My caddie and I talked about it the last couple days. We're coming back. We're, it's too much fun, they treat you way too nice, it's too good of an experience not to come back. So we're going to make it back. 
 FastScripts by ASAP Sports.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT