NASDAQ-100 OPEN
April 3, 2004
Wayne Black
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  So I guess it's pretty exciting to have your first victory together.  Did you feel the whole time that this was sort of coming, things were coming together?  Can you just go through the tournament with me, how it went? 

KEVIN ULLYETT:  Definitely.  Last week we had a good week in Indian Wells.  We made the finals and actually should have won, so we were feeling really good.  Got here.  Second round, we had to really tough out a match.  Then from then on, we just  -- our confidence just went through the roof. 

Q.  How about today's match?  I know that they were coming back there and were hoping for a third set. 

KEVIN ULLYETT:  We got off to a really good start.  That's what really gave us the jump.  If you let those guys get ahead of you and get on top of you  --

WAYNE BLACK:  That's what we've been doing well the last few matches.  If you look at our first-set scores, they've been 6-1, 6-2.  We've been really coming out there really fired up.  But, I mean, from day one, start of this year, we've been really working hard, putting in the work every day, the extra work.  I think it's just paying off.  We're reaping our rewards right now. 

Q.  What in particular?  What are some specifics you're doing the last few months you hadn't done before, let's say?  Just more hours? 

WAYNE BLACK:  Just, yeah, a little bit more hours, just working on real specific doubles, doubles shots and doubles plays really in practice, and just having a game plan out there and just sticking to it, not going off it, just really, really sticking to it.  Making players beat us.  We're not going to beat ourselves out there, we're going to go out there, we're going to take it to them no matter who we're playing against.  If they play too good, that's too good (smiling). 

Q.  A lot of players talked about the wind here.  I guess today it's not as windy.  But during the whole tournament, was it a factor for you guys? 

WAYNE BLACK:  Couple of matches we didn't have any wind. 

KEVIN ULLYETT:  There's a breeze here, swells in the Stadium courts.  But on the outside courts, it's more like  one side.  You feel it more on the outside courts. 

WAYNE BLACK:  The key is not to think about it, I think, on your serve.  The hardest shot I think with the wind is the serve.  If you just think about the next shot rather than worrying about your ball toss and everything...

Q.  I think Greg was telling me you hadn't beaten Todd before. 

KEVIN ULLYETT:  No. 

Q.  Neither one of you?

WAYNE BLACK:  I'd never beaten Todd, yeah.

Q.  Neither one of you had.  Is that a little feather in the cap? 

KEVIN ULLYETT:  Well, it is.  In doubles terms, he's like Pete Sampras pretty much with all the titles he's won. 

WAYNE BLACK:  Bigger than Pete Sampras. 

KEVIN ULLYETT:  The amount of Slams he's won, yeah...  It's nice to beat him once, you know. 

Q.  How many times would you say you've played him, if you had to estimate how many times? 

WAYNE BLACK:  Eight to ten. 

KEVIN ULLYETT:  Yeah, about ten. 

Q.  Same for you? 

WAYNE BLACK:  Uh-hmm. 

Q.  Where do you guys go from here? 

KEVIN ULLYETT:  Belgium for Davis Cup. 

Q.  Oh, okay. 

WAYNE BLACK:  Thanks. 

KEVIN ULLYETT:  Thanks. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT