DAVIS CUP - USA vs ZIMBABWE
February 4, 2000
Wayne Black
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Wayne, I just want to find out from you, was he too tough? 
 
 WAYNE BLACK: Obviously, he's a very tough player. I had to have all my guns firing out
there today, and, you know, I was -- I mean I played well; I won't deny that. But I
definitely had to take a lot of risks out there to beat someone like Andre. It just didn't
go my way today. 
 
Q. You seemed to have some calls that went against you.
 
 WAYNE BLACK: Yeah, a few guys were sleeping out there, some real clear calls I felt
went against me. That's the way of the game, though. 
 
Q. Did it affect your mental outlook?
 
 WAYNE BLACK: No, no. You get used to that stuff. Stuff happens every match you play,
bad calls. You just have to try to argue with the umpire and hopefully he'll watch the
lines a bit closer and just look out for another bad call. 
 
Q. Is there any point you thought was a turning point in the match?
 
 WAYNE BLACK: I guess maybe there was one or two points on my serve that I lost in the
first set possibly. I think I played one forehand that went the other way. I just didn't
move my feet. That could have been an important point. 
 
Q. It was such a tough fight. Did it upset your confidence at all going into the second
set?
 
 WAYNE BLACK: No, I got a good start to the second set. I knew against Andre you can't
let him run away with it. With the match, you have to hold your first serves of each set
and try and hang in there. So, yeah, I had a kind of good start. 
 
Q. What did he do that's most difficult to deal with?
 
 WAYNE BLACK: Just taking the ball on the rise and having it on the run. I mean,
actually his returns as well. Just taking my serves so early. My serve let me down a
little bit today. But most of it's his fault, though, because there's nowhere to serve to
the guy really. You have to have someone like Sampras, who serves blast it past him. I
definitely don't have that. So I really had to give him a mixed bag in my serve and try
and keep him guessing. Otherwise, he just jumps -- and jumps all over it. 
 
Q. Did you notice, Wayne, that he was playing a little bit further back? It was
probably because of the altitude. You also didn't use your kick serve quite effectively.
(Inaudible)?
 
 WAYNE BLACK: Maybe. Could have used it a bit more. I wasn't feeling that confident with
it either. I've been practicing all week, but it just didn't feel like a good groove. The
last time I played him, I took him to three sets and I was just kick serving him down 90
percent of the time. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 WAYNE BLACK: It's definitely the serve. A small guy like me, it's definitely the serve. 
 
Q. What does it mean to you to have the international tennis community here and for
your country to host Davis Cup?
 
 WAYNE BLACK: Yeah, it's fantastic. Davis Cup means the world to me. So something of
this magnitude is just a dream come true. Just trying to get the wins on the board; that's
all. 
 
Q. Still coming out to play doubles tomorrow?
 
 WAYNE BLACK: Oh, yeah. I'll be very hungry for the doubles. 
 
Q. For people who haven't been here before, was this a typical atmosphere, or was it a
lot more heightened than other home ties?
 
 WAYNE BLACK: Pretty typical. 
 
Q. Do you hope to hire these guys so you can take them on the TOUR for the circuit?
 
 WAYNE BLACK: Yeah, that would be nice. 
 
Q. Wimbledon.
 
 WAYNE BLACK: That would be very nice. 
 
Q. Have they showed up before?
 
 WAYNE BLACK: Yeah, every match. 
 
Q. That's wonderful.
 
 WAYNE BLACK: They're fairly loyal. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT