NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v LIGHTNING
June 14, 2015
J.T. Brown
Jason Garrison
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Jason, what does it say about your group that Ben and everybody else, the way you're fighting through the injuries?
JASON GARRISON:   What does that say about our group?   I don't know, that's an interesting question. 
I mean, I think every team goes through it during the year, injuries.   We're no different.   I don't think any team is 100%.   Obviously there's only two of them now. 
Yeah, I think it's just guys are obviously competitors, willing to pay the price.   They don't want to take themselves out of the lineup. 

Q.   Jason, the playoffs, around day 60 or 61.   Time flying or does it seem like a long grind?
JASON GARRISON:   It's been a little bit of both.   When you look back, the Detroit series seems like a very long time ago.   But, you know, I think it's been fun, it's been a good experience. 
I mean, yeah, it definitely takes a toll on your body.   It's a lot of hockey.   It's been a grind, for sure, at some points. 

Q.   J.T., when you guys lost Game 6 at home to the Rangers, had to go to New York, people remind you of their history in Game 7 for a couple days.   Can you draw a comparison with how you felt with everyone writing you off to how you feel right now?
J.T. BROWN:   I would stay we still feel the same.   Going into Game 7, we were confident in our group.   We weren't necessarily thinking too much about the outside noise.   We just needed to stay within ourselves. 

Q.   Jason, on Val's goal last night, a tough play.   How did you see that open up?   Do you feel more comfortable being offensive after you're back from your injury?
JASON GARRISON:   I'm not sure exactly how I saw it, to be honest.   It was a broken play.   I think it made its way to the half wall.   Fil   positioned himself very well.   At the time that I saw him there, he was by himself.   It was kind of up to me to get the puck there.   You know, he did the rest. 

Q.   It seems as if when you guys come back after a loss, you come back after you feel angry about what has happened in the game before.   Would you say it would be a fair assessment that you guys are angry at what happened last night?   How would you phrase it as to how you feel about the loss?
JASON GARRISON:   I mean, I don't think anybody wants to lose.   It's no different than anytime you lose.   Obviously putting ourselves in that situation makes it a must win for us tomorrow. 
I think guys, you know, have to get angry, have to give it everything they got come tomorrow. 
J.T. BROWN:   Yeah, I'd say the same.   It's just a mindset we have.   I don't necessarily say we had a bad game, but we don't want to have bad games back‑to‑back. 
I think in the regular season, that's something we try to do.   I think we've been able to rebound pretty well. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, guys. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT