NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v LIGHTNING
June 7, 2015
J.T. Brown
Valtteri Filppula
Steven Stamkos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for J.T., Steven and Valtteri.   
   
 Q.   Steven, you guys obviously are better at home than on the road.   During the playoffs, you've had success on the road.   Can you explain?  
STEVEN STAMKOS:   I think that was the main focus for us starting this series, starting with the same mentality we have at home, like you just mentioned.   
For whatever reason, whether it's distractions, trying to play a solid road game, I know it gets talked about a lot throughout the season.   For whatever reason, we've been able to do that.   I think we've done that the last couple games at home, as well.  
I think you're satisfied with a tight game on the road than you are at home.   Especially in the playoffs, we found a way to keep it tight.   Whether it was 0‑0, 1‑1 in the third, we've found the confidence in our group to find a way to get it done.   It's worked out so far.   
   
 Q.   J.T., it seemed like the coach challenged you guys to get more production out of different lines.   Seemed like your line was flying for most of the night last night.   
J.T. BROWN:   At all times we want to chip in.   We don't want to have too much on the top six forwards.   
First and foremost, we need to keep the puck out of our net.   I think that was still our first focus.   
   
 Q.   Valtteri, Steven last night talked about the incredible pace of the game.   It was a lot of fun for fans to watch.   A lot of us look at the Finals you played with Detroit against Pittsburgh.   Can you draw a parallel with the potential of this series to what you experienced back then?   
VALTTERI FILPPULA:   I mean, yeah, I think it was really, really quick.   A lot of back and forth.   I felt that was kind of the same way that series was back in '08 and '09 as well.   
I think the first game wasn't as physical as the second game was.   Obviously we haven't played them that much in the regular season.   First couple games, you kind of get used to a team as well.   
So I think it's going to be the same way going forward.   
   
 Q.   Steven, in terms of the series record, you went into Game2 saying it wasn't a must‑win.   In terms of confidence and momentum going into that game, was it a must‑win for this team?  
STEVEN STAMKOS:   Again, I said it a bunch of times.   It's never a must‑win until your backs are completely against the wall of the.  
It's the same all playoffs.   We've come into every game wanting to win.   We knew if we got in an 0‑2 hole, it was going to be tough, especially with a team with this much experience.   
Like I said after Game1, there was a lot of positives out of that game.   It was a tough loss, tough to swallow, especially being up a goal in the third.   
We found ourselves in that same position.   We didn't waiver this time.   We stuck with it.   I know they tied it, but there's no panic with this group.   That was a big win for us to get our feet wet a little bit in this series, obviously make it a series heading into a tough rink to play in.   
We've had confidence in our ability to bounce back all along.   
   
 Q.   Valtteri, how has this experience been for you in the Finals?   How is it different?   Are you enjoying it in a different way?   
VALTTERI FILPPULA:   Yeah, I think you always enjoy when you get to the Finals.   Luckily for me first three years, first year in Conference Finals, then two times in Finals in a row.   You're thinking, Okay, this is going to be fun, you get to play all the time.   
Obviously that's not the case.   
It's great to be back.   I feel we have a good team, we've been playing well.   So it's been a lot of fun.   
   
 Q.   Valtteri, as the only Lightning player with a Stanley Cup victory, why do you think your team has had success despite that relative inexperience?   
VALTTERI FILPPULA:   I think we've had two really good regular seasons now.   Last year we obviously made it to playoffs, but it didn't go as we wanted it to.   I feel like our team's been playing more mature than we necessarily have.   
To be honest, it's tough to say.   I feel like we have a young group, but we've been playing better than you would maybe think.   Hopefully we can keep going a couple few more games.   
   
 Q.   Steven, you guys are undefeated when you're angry.   What is it about this team?   Is there a way to be able to produce those emotions on a consistent basis even though you don't play a bad game?  
STEVEN STAMKOS:   Well, I think these last couple games, you're finally seeing‑‑ you can go back to Game 7 against the Rangers.   That's three pretty consistent efforts in a row.   That was something that we were struggling with coming off a big win, having a letdown, having that letdown, coming out with a great effort.   For whatever reason, that was the trend we were on.   We responded every time we've been in that situation.   
But I said it after Game1.   It was a different kind of loss in Game1 of this Finals than it had been previous series where we lost 5‑2, 6‑2, 7‑3.   This is a game we felt we had and we let it slip through our fingers.   We played well.   
This is a new response from our team to come out and play as well as we did in Game1, just finish the job this time.   We did that.   Hopefully that can be proof to our team that we can continue to play consistently and find ways to win.   
I think that's three in a row where we've played in the right way, and for the most part we've seen the results.   
   
 Q.   Steven, how do you feel about the way you've played so far in this series?   How would you describe the amount of attention they're paying to you compared to what you received before?  
STEVEN STAMKOS:   We haven't found a way, myself personally, to get on the board yet.   At this time of the year, it's about the wins.   We've said that all along.   This has been a group that's relied on our depth the entire season.   We've seen it in the playoffs.   
Our line in general has had some really good looks.   Just haven't gone in.   We found a way to get one in the first game.   But when certain guys aren't producing, it doesn't mean they're not playing well.   The pucks just aren't going in.   Other guys step up.   That's why we've been so successful.   
Obviously it's a challenge.   Usually you're against one of the top four on the other side.   Those guys play a ton.   They're very good players.   It's a challenge every time.   But we've done a good job of trying to take away their time and space as well with their top guys.   
I think both teams have some very skilled players that the other team is paying close attention to.   That's when you get into secondary scoring.   You saw it in Game1 for them.   You saw it in Game2 for us.   That might be a trend going forward.   
   
 Q.   Steven, we're not 100% sure who your starting goalie is tomorrow night.   A, do you know?   B, if it is Vasilevskiy, how do you stay confident with a guy who is a rookie going in for his first start in a Stanley Cup Final?  
STEVEN STAMKOS:   Yeah, we're not sure.   If we were, probably wouldn't tell you anyways (laughter).   
About it is Vasi, we have full confidence in him.   I know a lot of us talked about it last night after the game.   
I think it's helped him that he's been thrown in the fire a little bit in the playoffs.   We've been in some tough games where we've left Bish out to dry, giving him a rest, he's come in.   He's been in different situations.   He had a couple goals scored on him early, didn't rattle him.   Like last game, came in, played well, made some saves.   
He's a young kid.   Let's not forget, he played in the KHL for a couple years.   That's pro experience for him.   He showed that since he came over here.   Ever since he came over here, he works extremely hard in practice.   He's ready.   
He's a guy that's probably the most prepared out of everybody.   He's at the rink six to eight hours a day preparing.   He's waiting for his chance.   Whether that's tomorrow or not, he'll be ready.   
   
 Q.   Steven, you said you were following it on the PA saying who was in, who was out.   Was there anything said on the bench to get your focus back or did it happen naturally?   
STEVEN STAMKOS:   You know what, not much.   When he went in, we wanted to make sure we finished the game for him, and obviously for Bish.   But we wanted to just play solid in front of Vasi.   Took a penalty there.   He made some big saves.   That one time on Richards was a very big chance.   
Like I said, no matter what the situation, he seemed to have confidence.   I think there's a correlation with how hard he works in practice and prepares himself.   When he gets thrown in these situations, he's ready.   
Not much needed to be said from our standpoint on the bench.   We wanted to go out and finish the game hard.   They flip‑flop a couple times in net, we're not sure what's going on.   We found a way.   He made some key saves for us.   
   
 Q.   Steven, tomorrow the top prospects will be here for the game.   What are your memories from your day, what you say to those guys?  
STEVEN STAMKOS:   Yeah, that was a great experience for me.   I actually got to watch Fil play.  
I think it was the first Cup Final you were in.  
We had a chance to go down to Detroit and catch the game against Pittsburgh, meet a couple guys.   Got to go in the room.   
That was pretty exciting.   That was for me really your first taste of seeing these guys up close, watching the game, getting to meet some guys.   
We've already had a couple discussions, looking forward to meeting those guys.   I know Connor a little bit from training in the summer, skating with him.   But this is what those guys dream of, as well.   I remember being in Detroit watching there, hoping I could be on this stage someday.   Here we are, so it's pretty special.   
   
 Q.   J.T., Jonathan Toews said today he was surprised that the matchup has been your line so far against his, although he's been impressed by the work you guys have done.   How much have you enjoyed that matchup, which has been successful so far for you guys?  
J.T. BROWN:   Yeah, I mean, even for us, not necessarily knowing who we're going to go against.   Whoever it is, it's our job to shut them down.   For the most part we've been doing it all right.   The best way to shut them down is to try to play offense.   They're a skilled group over there.   If they're playing in our D zone, they're going to get their chances.   The best chance to stop them is to be in the offensive zone for them.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, guys.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT