NCAA BASEBALL CHAMPIONSHIP REGIONALS: BATON ROUGE
June 5, 2016
Jackson Cofer
Spencer Gothberg
Eric Madsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Southeastern Louisiana - 3, Utah Valley - 2
ERIC MADSEN: Well, I'm definitely proud of these guys.  I'm sad for them.  Good kids.  Good team.  They play hard, and to that game right there, even to give up the three runs early, and then for Jacks to hold them right where they are at and for us to keep fighting back, that shows what type of club they are.  I think we swung the bat pretty good.  I think you give Southeast Louisiana a lot of credit the way they played defense.  They went and got some balls and made good.
Disappointed for our guys because they had a great year, and I knew they felt like they could do some damage here.  Proud of them.
THE MODERATOR: Talk a little about your outing, please.
JACKSON COFER: I thought I pitched pretty well for the most part.  I thought our defense played spectacular.  It was unfortunate I couldn't come out and be like that in the first inning, as well as the rest of the game.  But I thought for the most part, we played well, and I wouldn't want any other eight guys behind me defending.
THE MODERATOR: Spencer, talk about your home run and also maybe talk about the year on the whole.
SPENCER GOTHBERG: It's going to be hard for me to talk.  It's been a crazy year (tearing).  We got our eight seniors and I'm one of them, and at the beginning of the year, we always just talked about being better leaders and trying to help out the club.
It's been an awesome, awesome ride.  For all of us to make it to our first regional and get down here and get to this awesome crowd here, man, it's been a pleasure being down here.  Just love the game.  Love playing baseball and just sad it's over.
Q. What was the difference between the first inning and the rest of the game?  Was it settling of nerves?  What was going on there?
JACKSON COFER: Yeah, I think it was just nerves for the most part.  We've pitched in front of some big crowds, but pitching down here in front of all those Southeast Louisiana fans, as well as all our fans, I think in the first inning, is mostly just nerves that got to me.  Trying to do too much.
I'm glad I was able to settle down after that first inning.  Like I said before, it was unfortunate I couldn't come out of the gate like that, but yeah, I think that first inning was just nerves and just being in this atmosphere.
Q. What was it like throwing to Jameson Fisher, you really kept him in check today, even though he's one of the best hitters in the country?
JACKSON COFER: I tried not to single any of their hitters out.  Like you said, he's one of the best hitters in the country and I tried to not really think about that.  I tried to just go after him like I would any other hitter.  I think I had two walks and both of them were on him, so I wish I could have had those at-bats back.  I think we did a really good job against him, and their whole lineup.  Their whole lineup is just full of great hitters.
Yeah, I think we did a really good job of keeping them in check.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT