ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 29, 2010
Randy Shannon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		   THE MODERATOR: We now welcome Miami head football coach Randy Shannon. We'll ask for a brief opening statement and then go to questions. 
 Coach. 
 COACH SHANNON: Thank you. This week's opponent against Clemson, at Clemson, is going to be a pivotal ACC game for us, first ACC conference game. Kind of excited about it, like always. Then you have an opportunity to play on national TV, a great opponent, great team like Clemson. 
 They have some really good players on their football team. They have the defensive player that is a safety, which I think is probably the best defensive player in the conference, McDaniel. He's a very exciting player, a player that lines them up, makes the corrections, fixes the problems that if somebody else makes a mistake he overcompensates for them. 
 They also have a defensive end Bowers who has done a great job of improving since last year. Watching him on tape, he's a dominant player now, going to be a guy that I can recognize and understand where he is on the defensive side of the ball. 
 Offensively, the quarterback Parker has done a great job of orchestrating their offense. Don't make many mistakes. Kind of a guy that nickel and dime you, execute the offense. I think it's going to be vital if we can get some pressure on him some way, form or fashion. You always have to be concerned because they got a very good screen game. They do a lot of screens with the runningbacks and receivers which we have to work on all the time. 
 I think this game is a great opportunity for both teams to bounce back and play, have a great time on a 12 noon nationally televised game. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. We understand what happened in last year's game against Clemson. Jacoby Ford and C.J. Spiller had a huge part in that. Clemson is not as talented this year without those two guys. What is it like looking at Clemson this year versus last year? Is it good not to see 28, 6 on that film?
 COACH SHANNON: I think Clemson is very talented. Like I said, they got two good runningbacks, Harper, I forget the other young kid's name, but he does a great job of running the football. Reid, the tight end, is unbelievable. Offensive line does a great job of blocking.
 Defensively they're big, fast, a very physical football team. Like anything, you watch them on film, they get after you. I think they're just as talented as any team we probably faced this season. 
 It's going to be a tough game for us, a big game that we have to play at a level that we've never played before. 

 Q. Randy, JaKouri's interceptions, have they been the product of good defensive plays, bad decisions, or one theme that has highlighted it?
 COACH SHANNON: Basically when I watch the interceptions with JaKouri, he really had one interception, that was the first one we had against Ohio State. The other three against Ohio State, two of them was the receiver running the wrong route. One receiver ran the wrong route, the next time it went through the receiver's hands and went to a defensive back. And another was cut short. 
 The two other interceptions we had last week, it was one-on-one with the receivers. I feel like any coach in America, anytime you can get a receiver one-on-one with a safety, you have to throw the ball to them. Your receiver has to make those plays or get the ball out and you line up and play again. 
 We're fine with JaKouri, those things he understands. He works on it. Receivers understand we have to run the routes like we need to and be on the same page.

 Q. The interceptions don't concern you that much at this point?
 COACH SHANNON: Anytime you turn the ball over - you asked about JaKouri. I'm explaining the situation with JaKouri, turnovers, interceptions. Anytime those things happen, they concern you all the time. Sometimes you can lose games that way. 

 Q. Randy, your defense is playing at a pretty high level right now, certainly coming off that Pitt game. In preparing for Kyle Parker, what kind of challenges does he present that you haven't seen so far this year?
 COACH SHANNON: Well, Kyle does a great job. When you watch him this year, he gets the ball out quick. He's not going to sit back there in the pocket, try to take an 18-yard run. He's going to take a eight-yard, 10-yard route and let my athletes that I have around me make the other four yards to make the plays. Those are things we have to concentrate on this week, make sure we get him off rhythm of doing those types of things. We've watched him a lot. The players understand what he can do and what he possesses. 

 Q. Also their running game is different this year. The two guys that they're using seem to be providing quite a spark for their running game. What are your impressions of them?
 COACH SHANNON: They're physical, fast guys. Both of them are very fast. One, Harper, is a little bit bigger. But they can still do the same thing that Spiller did. They can get on the edge, one-on-one with the linebacker, run some Will routes, like I said, run some screens to get the balls in their hands. We know it's going to be a short, quick passing game. They may go deep here and there. But the key to their success has to be their screens and throwing to the tight end on the option route. Those are things we got to prepare for and get after. 
 THE MODERATOR: Coach, thanks for being with us. Good luck this weekend and we'll talk to you next Wednesday. 
 COACH SHANNON: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT