ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 23, 2010
Randy Shannon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   COACH SHANNON: This week's game against South Florida, a big game for us to end up in our last game at the stadium for our seniors. This is Senior Day for us for our seniors to go out on a big note.   
 Really excited about this senior class because four years ago when I took over the University of Miami, this senior class was the team that really started us off and trying to get us back to understanding what Miami's about. Creating a culture on and off the field and in the classroom and cleaning up the University of Miami. Also doing the things on the field to get us to where we're at right now.   
 The game against South Florida is a different team from last year. They're a figure team. Played a lot of eight man up front to try to stop the run game which in the last couple games we've been very effective at.   
 And we've got to rely on our offensive line to do a tremendous job. We saw Seantrel Henderson and Brandon Linder and Jermaine Johnson to step up against those guys they have in South Florida.   
 Defensively, we have another quarterback that likes to move around in the pocket. Our defensive tackle has to do a great job of corralling the quarterback and also stopping the run. They lineup in a lot of two back sets now. They got a lot away from their one back offense and running the spread offense. But we knew they had an opportunity to do it.   
 Just gives us a great opportunity to play and end on a great note this upcoming week at Sun Life Stadium.  
  
  Q. I'm sure you probably addressed this in your press conference. Is there a chance that Jacory will be able to get on the field this week?   
 COACH SHANNON: He's cleared as far as medical-wise, but I told him and I tell everybody. It's like you take a running back coming off a sprained knee, he's got to get back in the rhythm of running and cutting and doing those things.   
 Jacory has to get back into the rhythm of throwing the football, the timing routes, dropping back, letting the football release at a certain time, get back to handing the football off. Doing all those things.   
 If he's sharp and crisp, we'll go with him. If he's not, we'll have to go with Stephen. But he knows it, and he's going to work hard this week in practice to get to those things.   
 I'm kind of excited because I've seen some things in Jacory in the game this week, the last two games that have really, really sitting back helping Stephen on the sideline. Being fiery and talking to him all the time. It shows you what type of kid he is. He always wanted to be a part of something that was going on.  
  
  Q. Stephen had the tough second half against Virginia Tech. How is he handling that?   
 COACH SHANNON: He's a competitor. He responds. You know, the second half was down 24-17. I think it was going into the fourth quarter or third, late third quarter, going into the fourth quarter. They called a perfect defense on a perfect pass route that we were calling and the guy stepped in and made a play.   
 Those things happen in a game like that. A young man has done a great job for us. He started three games. Was 2-1 with him, so we can take those two victories and build on it but also build on some opportunities in that game. He doesn't lose his confidence of what he's done. He's a competitive guy. He knows there are always challenges ahead of him.  
  
  Q. Do you think this is a situation that could wind up making Jacory even better? Correct me if I'm wrong, but it seems it's been a while since he's had somebody pushing him like this?  
 COACH SHANNON: It has been. It really has been. This is the first time I think since Robert Marve that he had somebody to really push him to where he needs to go. With Stephen there, Stephen and him talk a lot. They communicate a lot.   
 It's just the competition factor of him staying on top of his game. But also not feeling heat, but just knowing that you have somebody by you that is just as good as you that wants to work as hard as you. I think it will be a great cohesive deal between those two guys that will really work out well.  
  
  Q. Is your schedule set up to conclude the next several regular seasons with South Florida or another non-conference game? Do you have a preference as to whether you finish the regular season with a conference or non-conference opponent?   
 COACH SHANNON: I don't know. If I'm not mistaken, I think they made that contract a long, long time ago. And I think it's always the last game of the season, if I'm not -- I'm not sure. But I think that's the way it's been set up.   
 It's kind of a situation where you're playing -- you're out of the mix once that game comes up, which we're out of the mix now. When that game comes up, it's like you're playing an out of conference game. It means a lot still because you're playing an in-state team. But like any game, you want to win that last one.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT