MLB WORLD SERIES: METS VS ROYALS
October 30, 2015
Steven Matz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I'm guessing that at some point in your life you've dreamed of tomorrow night?
STEVEN MATZ: Yeah.  I think we all have.  This is where you want to be in baseball.  This is the dream.  So, yeah, definitely have.  This is what you write up in your backyard when you're playing Wiffle ball.
Q. I think I read somewhere that you're going to commute from your parents' home tomorrow.  Did you do that during the regular season, too?  Either way, what does it mean to be a local guy from Long Island and pitching in the World Series for the team you rooted for?
STEVEN MATZ: It's awesome.  I will be staying home.  I did that pretty much ever since I came back from getting hurt.  Yeah, so I just commute.  We're on off hours, so there's not much traffic.  It's not too terrible.  It's been pretty awesome to be able to do that.
Q. What is your best memory, best game memory of being a Mets fan?  And who was your favorite player?
STEVEN MATZ: Man, my favorite player was always changing.  I loved Johan.  I loved Mike Piazza.  I remember Endy Chavez making that catch in 2006, and then the World Series, obviously, in 2000, the Subway Series was a lot of fun to watch.
Q. Just some of the issues that your staff have had with the contact-hitting lineup, is there anything you plan to change with your style of pitching or any way you are going to approach the hitters?
STEVEN MATZ: Yeah, I think we all look at every team we face and we have a game plan.  That's what we're going to do.  We're not going to change anything as far as that.  We're going to sit down and study the hitters and attack the hitters the way we believe we can get them out.  So that's what we're going to do.
Q. I'm sure you've dealt with ticket requests and all that for every start that you've made here.  Is tomorrow going to be any different or do you kind of outsource that to some other family members so you don't have to worry about requests and things like that?
STEVEN MATZ: Yeah, for the most part my dad handles all that.  It's the World Series, so tickets are pretty tight here.  But there's definitely going to be a huge amount of family members attending.
Q. What was it like growing up in the late '90s, early 2000s as a Mets fan, when the Yankees seemed to be winning every single year?
STEVEN MATZ: Yeah, I mean, you definitely heard a lot from the Yankee fans.  When I was that age I wasn't so focused on being a fan, I was more focused on playing myself.
But I definitely did hear a lot from the Yankee fans a lot about that, for sure.
Q. When you were young, being a Met fan, did you ever think about the moment that you're about to embark upon tomorrow when you're going to be on the mound in a World Series game with the team you rooted for as a youngster?
STEVEN MATZ: I always thought about it. I didn't know it was actually going to come to truth or whatever.  It's actually amazing.  It's pretty big blessing being here, especially my first year being a part of this team.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT