NL DIVISION SERIES: DODGERS VS METS
October 12, 2015
Steven Matz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Steven, thanks for being here.  First question for Steven.   
 Q.  I guess what are your emotions here?  This is a big spot that you're in.  What's it like to be standing in that position.  
STEVEN MATZ: Really trying to take the emotions out of it.  I have a job to do tomorrow, and that's what I'm going to focus on is to help my team win this game.   
 Q.  Steven, obviously as a Mets fan growing up, when you pitched against the Yankees just last month, your biggest game of your career at that point, just the most magnitude with both teams.  How much did that help prepare you for the spotlight?  
STEVEN MATZ: I think that did help me a lot because now this won't be the first time I'll be pitching in front of a crowd like that.  So now it's kind of like I've been there and I feel like I'm ready to do it.   
 Q.  It's kind of just a followup, before that Yankee game, were there more butterflies in the stomach?  And do you think if there were, same kind of butterflies for tomorrow or that kind of was like an immunization so to speak?  
STEVEN MATZ: Yeah.  I mean I get butterflies before every start.  You know, you want to go out there and do well.  But at this point, like I said, I'm taking the emotions out of it, treating it like any other game.  You prepare for this point, so that's what I'm going to do.   
 Q.  How are you feeling coming out of the Minor League start?  You haven't had a start in the Majors in 19 days?  Also how many people do you have coming tomorrow night?  
STEVEN MATZ: I feel really good coming out of -- I felt really good and strong finishing up in the intrasquad game down in Florida.  So I'm happy with how that went.  I threw a bullpen yesterday and still feeling good.  So yeah, everything is good.   
And I got eight people coming.   
 Q.  Not concern, but are you curious about how you'll pitch in a Major League game, given it has been a few weeks since you actually were in one?  
STEVEN MATZ: Um, no.  I think at this point, you know, you prepare all year.  I've had however many starts I've had, over 20 starts.  So I think at this point you got what you got.  You prepare all year.  Even though you're in between starts, you learn from your starts, so I think I'm ready.   
 Q.  Just as a lifelong Mets fan, how would you describe what this means?  The first postseason game at Citi Field, and after nine years of playoff oblivion, what does this mean?  
STEVEN MATZ: This is great.  I mean, you know, postseason baseball is where you want to be.  You want to be playing this time of year, and like I said before, I'm not really looking at it as a fan.  Kind of taking the emotions out of it.  We've got a job to do and I got a job to do tomorrow, and that's win the game.  So that's just the way I'm looking at it.   
 Q.  What are your memories of the 2006 postseason and maybe even 2000 with the Mets?  And is it safe to assume at that time you were dreaming of the opportunity that will present itself tomorrow?  
STEVEN MATZ: Um, that's a tough question.  I mean, I don't really remember what I was thinking back then, but I do remember watching it and thought it was pretty awesome.  You know, my dream was always to play in the Major Leagues, so it's safe to say that, yeah, that's correct, I was definitely thinking about being in that spot.   
 Q.  What's the last few days been like with the people in your life who are interested in you pitching in this game?  Are you hearing from long-lost people from high school, sending you Facebook messages saying, Get me a ticket to the game, or anything like that?  What's that been like?  
STEVEN MATZ: No.  I think when I got called up in June it was more of that, but now it's kind of toned down.  Everybody is really excited, being back home and everything, all the fans, friends, everyone.  Family is really excited for this team and what we can do here going forward.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT