NCAA MEN'S 2ND & 3RD ROUNDS: OMAHA
March 20, 2015
Sam Dekker
Nigel Hayes
Frank Kaminsky
Bo Ryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 WISCONSIN - 86
  COASTAL CAROLINA - 72
 
THE MODERATOR: Nigel Hayes, Sam Dekker, Frank Kaminsky are the student-athletes.  Bo Ryan, now sitting next to me, is the head.  Coach, statement, please?   BO RYAN: We're happy to get a chance at another 40 minutes, and I want to get these guys fed and down so we will take any questions, I guess.   Q.  Frank, just comment on the tremendous size advantage that you and your teammates had on those guys and how that kind of played out tonight against them.  FRANK KAMINSKY: We were able to get some stuff in the paint.  40 points in the paint, that's pretty good, and hopefully that will be a staple of our team in the tournament. We were able to get it into the paint, kick it out, get some open 3s, so we were just trying to work through the paint and see what we could do.   Q.  To any of the players, for us guys that don't get to see you on a daily basis, how efficient were you guys tonight?  NIGEL HAYES: We were 33-61, okay, that's good.  I think we did a good job of making shots.  Making shots is part of the game; it's always a good thing to do, and that comes from us being unselfish.  We play as a team.  We don't want to just rush, hurry shots or one guy try to score as many as he can.  We find the open guy, and when we play like that, we're able to play as efficiently as we are.   SAM DEKKER: I think we played pretty efficient, in lapses, though.  I think there were times -- in spurts, I mean.  There were times when we were very efficient and times where we weren't taking very good shots.  I think early in the second half we kind of slacked off and took some quick looks and we weren't running the stuff that we usually do. So I think we did a better job late in the second half, and overall I think it was a pretty efficient offensive night, but we can do better, and we're looking forward to doing better on Sunday.   Q.  Coach, another year is in the books where No. 1 seeds have survived.  Do you foresee in the near future where No. 1 seeds will fall?  BO RYAN: Let me be real honest with you.  If Coastal Carolina is a 16 seed, really, we have 68 teams playing now, not 64, so I would say anything from 12 to what they call 16, I would match those teams up anytime. I just think it's for publicity.  It's for the conversation.  It sells.  Talk about seeds, talk about seeds. So we don't -- like I said, I didn't even know we were No. 2 seed until we got to Anaheim last year.  I don't worry about that seeding stuff, because I know how good those other programs are, and I know how they got here.  They won! So it's a 40-minute game.  The seeds and all that stuff with the brackets and all that, it's great; it's exciting.  Not for us, because we're not allowed. I really -- so every 16 and 1 has played?  Nobody else is playing now?  Survived again.  I really didn't think about it, though, because I played a lot of -- coached against a lot of really good teams that weren't seeded very high.   Q.  I guess this is for Coach or the players.  Coach, you made a point about wanting to get your guys fed and down.  You guys are going to have to sit around again to play your game on Sunday night.  Probably a tip-off at about 7 p.m.  Is that hard to sit around for two days and wait for that game to be played?  BO RYAN: Not in a beautiful city like Omaha.  It's okay.  We got a nice hotel; people have been nice, so we're okay.  As long as they can get us out Sunday night and get us back, that would be nice.  For classes on Monday, and, you know, these guys are getting an education, too. Obviously that puts us outta here late on Sunday, no matter if we're on the left-hand side or the right-hand side.  So it's okay.  It's all part of the system.   Q.  Given your body of work for this year, how does this performance tonight kinda compare with what you expect for this team?  BO RYAN: Well, we knew they were a really good jump-shooting team.  They can score.  They gave everybody a good game or beat 'em, like with Auburn. They didn't get -- you didn't see UCLA go to Coastal Carolina.  And I didn't see Ole Miss go to Coastal Carolina.  So they played all those games on the road against -- in a -- they're called "guaranteed games" and when I was at UWM, we did that, too.  So for them to come in here, this is nothing, for Coastal Carolina, plus with a coach that's been through the war so many times.  I think our guys played pretty well. That flurry of turnovers there at the end was not very eye-appealing, and that's not how we play basketball, and that's not how we like to be represented, so we'll try to make sure that doesn't happen again.  But, yeah, I thought our guys played pretty well for 39 minutes.   Q.  Frank and Sam, you guys played a thrilling game with Oregon last season in the NCAA Tournament, just your thoughts on a rematch.  FRANK KAMINSKY: We know they're a good team.  They made it to their conference tournament finals, and they got a lot of good players on their team, and it starts with Joseph Young.  And we know how good he is from last year, so it's going to be a battle again, just like last year.  And hopefully we'll play well and hopefully we'll come out on top.   SAM DEKKER: Yeah, that game last year was awesome, one of the best games I've ever been a part of.  Happy to get out of that one with a victory.  It was a hard-fought game. But they're going to come in with the same intensity, they're going to play hard, try to hit us in the mouth right away.  And they have the talent to do it.  Like Frank said, Joseph Young is one of the best scorers in the nation.  He's proven that the past few years, and they have other guys that are good.  Elgin Cook is a Wisconsin guy, so he's always fired up to play against us. They got a lot of talent.  Pac 12 is a good conference, and gotta respect it, so you gotta be ready for a battle, and I think we're going to be.   Q.  Nigel and Sam, what do you guys feel Frank's most overlooked or under appreciated attributes are?  NIGEL HAYES: I'll just go ahead and say his passing ability, unselfishness.  We all know he's a great player.  That's why he is -- I think he's already won it, his Player of the Year award.  He could easily, every time we throw it in to him, score on his guy or get a shot off, but he's very unselfish.  He gets his teammates involved, and when he does that, he makes us a better team.   SAM DEKKER: He took the easy one.  Well, his defense is awesome, but I guess that's talked about, too.  I think just he's consistent in his approach to the game and how it rubs off on the team.  He's led us so well all season. He's been consistent.  Every night he's just getting his usual double-double or getting 20-something.  That type of thing is awesome.  Even if he's not getting his numbers, he's getting down to the defensive end; he's not slouching.  He's always leading us and encouraging us to do better, and that's what you need out of your best player, and we're lucky to have him on our side because I would not want to be playing against him.   Q.  Guys, obviously Bronson was a little quiet tonight on offense.  Can you guys briefly go over how effective he was with ball movement, getting you guys loose to really go on that run?  FRANK KAMINSKY: Bronson understands that it's his job to run the team on the court.  We all look to him to lead us.  He's done so well with it throughout his career. He knows how to get people involved.  If you look, he's got 4 assists, moving the ball well, calling out all the plays, so when Bronson is not scoring that much, it doesn't really mean much to him as long as our team is doing well, so Bronson, if you say he had an off-night, I'm sure he's looking at it like he had a good game because we won by a lot, and we'll come back and he will be ready to go against Oregon.   NIGEL HAYES: To reiterate, we're not a selfish team, so he doesn't necessarily need to fill a stat sheet to know that he played well.  He's a point guard, he will lead the offense and he will be perfectly fine with taking his stat line today in a "W!"   THE MODERATOR: Anything else for the Badgers?  All right, thank you, gentlemen.  We will see you here tomorrow.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT