BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 22, 2009
Mariusz Fyrstenberg
Marcin Matkowski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 FYRSTENBERG-MATKOWSKI/Nestor-Zimonjic
  6-4, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. What do you think of the atmosphere of the courts out there? You're the first to experience it.   
 MARCIN MATKOWSKI: That was a great atmosphere. We played against England in Liverpool at the Echo Arena, but I think that was better. More people. The crowd really love tennis here. Especially they only have Queen's and Wimbledon tournament in June.   
 So for them to have the best players in the world playing here in London, it's great. And you can see that they show up even for doubles and they really like I.  
 So I hope they will show up every day like that.   
  
  Q. Tell me a bit about how you felt the court played.   
 MARIUSZ FYRSTENBERG: The surface?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 MARIUSZ FYRSTENBERG: The bounce is very low. Not very low, but lower than usual for hard courts. Especially for a new surface that's just made brand-new. And the ball is quite slow. It's low bounce and slow, so you can perfectly play baseline. We like it because we play baseline a lot during our game. And you can serve very well and return the ball.   
 So, yeah, you can both serve, going to the net, or stay baseline, whatever you want. So for us, it works.   
 MARCIN MATKOWSKI: If you serve well, I mean, the serve goes really fast. It's kind of slow, but on the other side, if you hit a good serve, it goes fast, too (smiling).   
  
  Q. You are rated as the underdogs. Did you feel you could do it if you wanted to do it? What was the main thing that you were targeting?   
 MARCIN MATKOWSKI: You're right, mere underdogs because Nestor, they beat us five out of the last seven. But we knew we were playing well, we have a chance to win. Especially our last four matches, they all came out to a super tiebreak. In super tiebreak, obviously they won three out of four. But we knew if we play well, we can win against them.   
 We showed it today on the court.   
  
  Q. It gives you more confidence going into the week?   
 MARIUSZ FYRSTENBERG: Yeah, of course. Yeah, because the most important thing in our game, it's good, big serve. We kept very high percentage of it. We feel confident in this one.   
 I think we're gonna continue to serve well the next two matches. This is the most important. We see what's going on. We going to watch our opponents, for sure, prepare our strategy and stuff.  
  
  Q. What was the strategy this time?   
 MARCIN MATKOWSKI: I mean, we focused mainly on holding our serve. If you hold serve, they have to come up with the good shots. Today our serve worked almost perfectly. We didn't face a single breakpoint. I guess Daniel and Nenad were under pressure, they had to hold their serve. We managed break them a few times. In the end, we pulled through. That was a very good match for us, the best we played all year. If we play like this, we should be very good in this tournament.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT