AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: TIGERS v RANGERS
October 11, 2011
Matt Harrison
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We're going to get started in the interview room again. Matt Harrison is here. We'll take a first question for him.   
  
  Q. Hey, Matt. What have you been doing to stay sharp during this extra rest period you've had?   
 MATT HARRISON: I've thrown two sides in between my last start. I was in the bullpen for the first game with the rainout. They just let me throw another bullpen the day after that to stay fresh, be ready for tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Matt, in talking with the Rangers people, they really feel like your curveball has gotten better this year, your breaking pitches. How did that happen?   
 MATT HARRISON: Honestly, I'm not really sure. I started throwing it more in games and getting a better feel for it. I think the biggest thing was staying on top of it.   
 I've been throwing more sinkers this year, and I had to stay on top of that to make sure I have more downhill plain, so I think that's helped out with my curveball to stay on top of it.   
  
  Q. Matt, having a chance to pitch last Wednesday getting a playoff game under your belt, how much does that help you with your comfort?   
 MATT HARRISON: It definitely helped a lot. I was in the atmosphere last year. I got that one little stint out of the bullpen before my start.   
 Once I got out there after the first two batters, my nerves were calm and it seemed like another game. I was just trying to focus on making my pitches.   
 It's been a great experience so far, and I'm looking forward to more tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Matt, going up against the Tigers, it's a team you haven't had that much success against. What's your approach against them? And what do you need to do against their lineup?   
 MATT HARRISON: Hopefully, go out there and do what Feldman did yesterday. He was real aggressive, kept the ball down in the zone and mixed up his pitches in and out and his breaking balls he used a lot.   
 So I think you just have to be aggressive against these guys. Try to limit the mistakes, keep the ball in the corners. Biggest thing is being aggressive and not walking guys and putting them on base and giving them more opportunities.   
  
  Q. What do you remember most about the two starts you had with them last year?   
 MATT HARRISON: I think it was really falling behind a lot of the hitters. One hitter in particular I had a lot of trouble with is Raburn. I think he's 8 for 11 off of me this year.   
 It always seems like when he's up I always seem to miss over the middle of the plate for some reason. I'm not sure why.   
 I had a pretty good start when I was here that one game. I gave up a home run to Avila in the sixth inning in a change-up. It was a bad pitch. Other than that, I thought I threw pretty good. They're a tough lineup. They have a lot of righties.   
 It's especially tougher against lefties. The big thing is you have to keep them uncomfortable at the plate.   
  
  Q. My memory is shot, but in the other start, weren't you dealing with the kidney stone and the blister? And if so, is it fair to say you weren't at your full speed at that game?   
 MATT HARRISON: Yes, I had the kidney stone like three days before. I thought I passed it. I ended up passing it that night after the game. So it definitely took a lot of energy out of me before that start.   
 But I still should have went out there and made some better pitches and at least gave us a chance to win. It was a little bit of a rough month right there. Luckily, I was able to manage to get through it and keep going.   
  
  Q. Matt, your last start against Tampa you went five innings and then the bullpen. You did great and the bullpen did great. What does it do for you guys knowing you have so many arms down there in the bullpen that you can go as long as you can -- you don't have to go too deep because the bullpen is so deep?   
 MATT HARRISON: It makes you feel comfortable out there. It makes you feel that as long as you can keep the game close and turn it over to the bullpen, they are going to shut it down. They're not going to do it every time, but for the most part, they've been doing it the whole playoffs.   
 With the guys we had and the arms we have down there, it's pretty tough to score on those guys. I'd like to go a lot deeper than five innings this time around. I'm going to keep throwing until they take the ball from me.   
  
  Q. Quickly, you said that was the day you'll never forget. What do you remember about that 4-3 win?   
 MATT HARRISON: I guess just -- I guess after missing the playoffs last year, all three rosters, it meant a lot to me to be able to start in a playoff game and to be in the game that we clinched to go on to the ALCS I think is the part I'll remember the most, and just being a part of this team.   
 I couldn't ask for better teammates. It makes it a lot easier.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT