WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL B: MEXICO CITY
March 10, 2009
Albertin Chapman
Yosbany Peraza
Higinio Velez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We'll start by getting the team's opening statement of the game.  
 HIGINIO VÉLEZ: This is definitely worth a Baseball Classic, a team full of quality. They gave their best out there, and the outcome was that that was really, really a gift for fans who are always on top of these games.   
 ALBERTIN CHAPMAN: This game was a great game. Both teams gave everything they had on the field.   
 YOSBANY PERAZA: This game was a great game. We had a few complications, but we cleared them and won.   
  
  Q. How do you think the game went with your pitchers? First you started off well, then it seems that it was getting complicated. Yosbany, is how did you feel before you hit the home run? You had the full pressure. You were not on top with the score.   
 HIGINIO VÉLEZ: Well, I've said the same thing since day one - this is a tournament where relief are decisive. We saw that. Starters, I mean, you can work with four or five innings. It depends on the pitching limits. Relief pitching is very important. It's not all good, and that's what really turned this game around.   
 YOSBANY PERAZA: Well, I was there in the bullpen, and Professor came, and he said, "I need you on the team," and we did it, and I went back out. I knew I really needed to hit, hit strong, because we were behind, we were not on top, and that's exactly what I hit, a strong winner.   
  
  Q. Talk to us, tell us, what kind of a challenge did Australia represent maybe after your victory over Mexico? Was this unexpected or expected? You were saying that Australia was a team definitely worth looking out for, so tell us about that. What does this say about the tournament's level against, for example, the other teams like the Netherlands beat the Dominican Republic?  
 HIGINIO VÉLEZ: There is no small enemy here, and Australia is definitely an enemy. 2004 we both fought for that gold medal in the Olympics. We also played a very close game against China Taipei in 2007, so this is a team that's full of quality. Their players are professional. They are very powerful and have improved with the relief pitching and the great pitchers. It's not a surprise.   
 The weakest team in this group was South Africa, but when someone said that this can be Mexico and Australia, we don't know we'll be playing with, if it's going to be Mexico or Australia who goes on to the next round.   
  
  Q. Of course Cuba was there watching the game. I'm sure you've got special thoughts, words you want to share with the people back home.   
 ALBERTIN CHAPMAN: I'm absolutely thrilled with this game. Professor Higinio gave me the responsibility of starting the game. And the fan base, I want to send our greetings. They saw the kind of game we played against Australia, and I want to congratulate the team.   
 YOSBANY PERAZA: I want to tell the people that this was definitely a triumph, and this is a victory that we're dedicating to Cuba.   
  
  Q. Mr. Vélez, a few minutes ago with the Australian press conference, their manager spoke about your sudden change in lineup, and he said this was a very disrespectful situation and they were tired, that Cuba is always doing the same thing, and they get away with it and authorities don't say anything.   
 HIGINIO VÉLEZ: I don't understand what you're saying. What do you mean? Changes in the lineup? Yes.  
  
  Q. And you did not let Australia know on time, and that's why he walked out onto the field, and this is something that Cuba does, and he says it's disgusting, disrespectful, and I want to know what your take is on his words. Is he right? About not enough time?  
 HIGINIO VÉLEZ: No, no, no, we are very respectful, both with the authorities -- I don't know who made a mistake. We did not make a mistake in our lineup. We have the original lineup. I don't know if you know, but half an hour before you need to turn in that lineup, and an official from the Major Leagues comes in, certifies, and we did not change anyone. From the moment we knew we had a left-hand pitcher, we knew this two days ago, we created our lineup, and from the moment we wrote it, we haven't scratched anything out or anything, because if I change, I need to let the umpire know.   
 The lineup, the rules, it's not official until I give it to the home plate umpire. I didn't change anything. I don't know who made a mistake, but the lineup that I turned in is the same one that I turned in during the game. From 5th to 6th I switched Mayeta, but I did that from the beginning. So someone messed that up, but it wasn't Cuba. We are ethical, we are professional, we are respectful. We have not committed any mistake. If someone needs to apologize, that's not us, and Cuba does not do that.   
 And actually, I remember, since I've been in Cuba, 2001, with this team, I've never, ever done changes. I don't know where they get that from, that Cuba does it all the time. That's really, really disrespectful.   
  
  Q. When Australia scored three runs, did you think it was right to leave in Lazo? What pitching change did you do? And Chapman, did you know that you were pitching at over 100 miles per hour?  
 HIGINIO VÉLEZ: Boy, that was a slew of questions. What was the first question?   
 Well, sometimes they're very hard games, very tough games, and you have to play knowing that you can pull out. Lazo has always been our strong man. We pulled him out. You can't always be successful. It wasn't a mistake to have a third inning with Lazo. You know, we trust him, so it's no big deal.   
 ALBERTIN CHAPMAN: I knew I was pitching with really great speed. I knew I was at 97 more or less, and 99, 100, I just found out. I didn't know.  
  
  Q. You spoke about Jimenez and I think you should say something?  
 HIGINIO VÉLEZ: Jimenez is a pitcher that was part of the pre team, and he played with the Olympics. His qualities are outstanding, and we've seen his courage. We've followed him with his training in Cuba. As a pitcher he has a very special quality. Although he's a right-hander, the type of pitching really, really leaves any lefties in a tough spot. I was convinced, I knew he was going to do that. There was no question in my mind, and that's why I didn't think twice before pulling him out, and he certainly, certainly did what he had to do.  
  
  Q. Talk to us about the kind of pressures of the game. What were you feeling when you were down 4-3?  
 HIGINIO VÉLEZ: When you need to prepare a team for victory, you need to prepare them psychologically, tactically and everything else. They are prepared psychologically. They are out there wanting to be a big team. They need to know how to play when they're on top, when they're down, when they're on the bottom. If a team doesn't know how to do that, you've already lost the game. This team psychologically is definitely ready to take on whoever. The team's spirits never fell. They knew, they had that certainty in their hearts.   
 Moments like those, we've lived them before. This is definitely one more. Boy, Australia had definitely given us our run for our money.   
 ALBERTIN CHAPMAN: Great games. We always have felt confident. We know our players. We trust these guys. If we're psychologically, mentally prepared to do our best when we're above, when we're below, when we're up and down, then we can do it.  
  
  Q. Another question for the manager and one more for the pitcher: One of the better managers in Cuba said sometimes you've got to look at the players eye to eye to find out who's scared. What do you do? Can you speak about the techniques? How can you lift the spirits? Psychologically they are prepared, but are there any specifics when you say who's going to go out? And it also depends on the circumstances. Sometimes it seems like you're pitching over 100 miles per hour, but you're not even 21. What do you need to perfect? You're basically a kid, but now you're definitely a giant, and you've got a great record in Cuba. What does your trainer tell you? What's part of your workout plan?  
 HIGINIO VÉLEZ: First question, let me answer. The key psychologist is the manager. You're not looking into their eyes only during the game; you're looking into their eyes day in and day out. You know how they're feeling. An organized team needs to plan and knows how to plan, a lefty against a righty. You need to know who's going to be the DH. I knew it was going to be Peraza. He was going to be the relay.   
 When you've spent time with the team, you know them. You know how to play together, and they are brave. These kids are brave. They're all brothers, and today's motto is Fidel's and Raul's team, and we're dedicating this victory to them and to the Cuban people. This is not an issue of people. It's not politics. These kids are united; they're joined. We don't need to look into their eyes only today. We look into their eyes every day, and I know who can do what at any given moment.   
 ALBERTIN CHAPMAN: About the speed in my pitching, well, it's part of pitching. In order to become the best pitcher, I still need lots of things. I need to improve professionally. I need to work. I need to work with curve balls. I need to work with other kinds of pitches.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much, guys, for your time.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT