DAVIS CUP FIRST ROUND: SWITZERLAND v USA
March 7, 2009
Yves Allegro
Severin Luthi
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 BRYAN-BRYAN/Allegro-Wawrinka
  6-3, 6-4, 3-6, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. One of the Bryan brothers guaranteed Andy would close it out tomorrow. How do you respond to that?   
 CAPTAIN LUTHI: Nice statement. I think we don't really care about what they said, honestly. If they said that they're going to close, it's good for them.   
 I tell you that it's going to be 2-0 after the match of Stan tomorrow. That's my statement.   
  
  Q. Stan, can you comment on your doubles play over the past few months, including the Olympics. You've become quite the doubles player. Are you going to play more doubles going forward? Do you enjoy it? Is it just because it's Davis Cup and Olympics?   
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: No, I play sometimes. But I cannot play the Grand Slam in doubles because it's too much to play singles in five sets and doubles.   
 I try to play a lot of times. I'm going to play in Indian Wells. I already play in Chennai. Yes, you know, the Davis Cup is always different. You play to win. You try to do your best. That's why I try to play very good in doubles in Davis Cup.   
 But actually, when I play doubles, I'm not playing so bad.   
  
  Q. Yves, the Bryans today became the most successful doubles team in U.S. history with this win. Can you just talk about what makes them so tough and solid as a doubles team in your eyes.   
 YVES ALLEGRO: They have been playing together against they basically born. So I think it's a big advantage. A big advantage that they have one lefty and one righty. I think it's huge in doubles. If you take all the best teams in the past, most of the time was one lefty and one righty. I think it's big.   
 Then they serve well and they're very strong at the net. It makes them tough to beat.   
  
  Q. Did you have a little letdown the first part of the tiebreaker? Didn't focus properly on the first couple points you lost?   
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA: No, we try to be focused on the tiebreak and go for it. But I think they start very good. Then they were serving very good, so it was tough to come back to the tiebreak.   
 But we try the best, like always.   
  
  Q. There were a couple times you went to the chair umpire to complain about some things. Do you recall those? What were the instances there?   
 CAPTAIN LUTHI: No, was because of the let. Twice was very clear let. I don't understand how you cannot see that, or if the machine didn't work or whatever. They put machines, and then I cannot understand. From where I was sitting, it was a clear let. I mean, it was not even -- it was almost changing the direction. The third one was maybe not as clear, but I saw every time that Stan stopped to play, so that's why I was complaining.   
 I think that's what you have to do. They were complaining about a few line calls or whatever. I mean, that's part of the game. If I see something wrong going on, then I have to complain. That's my role.   
 So I think it was nothing special. Was just a wrong call, as you always have in the game.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT