NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 24, 2016
Tag Ridings
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  2-under today, still in it, playing in the final group tomorrow.  Your thoughts on a good third round.  
TAG RIDINGS: I played pretty solid.  A few hiccups here and there again, but I played some smart shots, made a couple birdies on some tough holes to keep going.  Martin's playing great, so you can't worry about the other guy, just like to play with him, he's a good competitor and a pretty classy guy to play with, too.   
 Q.  Is this a golf course that lends itself to the leader or the chaser heading into Sunday?  
TAG RIDINGS: I don't know, it's such a tough golf course, you can get some big disparities with the chaser coming in.  But it probably favors the leader, I would say, just because of the toughness.  But if a guy gets out early and goes low, some guys are within reach of us that start a little earlier that could post a number.  But I can't worry about that, I just got to play well and do what my job is right now.   
 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about how it felt to be out there in the final group, in contention and play well?  
TAG RIDINGS: It feels great always.  It feels really good on this golf course to actually beat it three days in a row.  So I'm going to try to just stay focused on doing that.  You got to beat it off the tee and then you can play in from there.   
 Q.  You're close to the lead, what's going through your mind tonight when you get back to the hotel?  
TAG RIDINGS: That has nothing to do with my job, I got other things to take care of before I worry about that.  If it gets fun in the last couple holes, great.  We'll see how it goes.   
 Q.  Big game tonight for Arkansas.  Are you going to be watching that?  
TAG RIDINGS: Yeah, I'm hoping they don't go into over time on me again, but a couple weeks ago sure pumped me up for the start of the Sunday round in Cleveland.  So maybe they will have to do that again.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT