FUNAI CLASSIC AT THE WALT DISNEY WORLD RESORT
October 20, 2006
Tag Ridings
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Tag, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the Funai Classic.  Another great round today, 66 on the Magnolia course.  Talk a little bit about the two courses.
TAG RIDINGS:  Well, the Magnolia is definitely set up where it's playing a lot longer.  I thought one shot higher on the Magnolia versus yesterday was a major bonus.  I think it's playing three or four shots tougher because of the length and some good pin placements.  I'm very happy with both rounds, but especially the second round.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Questions, please?
Q.  Did you look at scoreboards or anything, and did it seem every time you got about like right here to grab the guy, he would birdie another one?
TAG RIDINGS:  To answer your question, I haven't looked at a scoreboard all day.  I still haven't looked at it, so no.
Q.  Is that sort of a normal operational mode?
TAG RIDINGS:  It should be.  I haven't been successful doing it the other way, so we're going to go no scoreboard for a while.
Q.  Why does this come popping up, these red numbers here, other than you have got a gun to your head?
TAG RIDINGS:  Switching back to the old putter, swinging at it a lot better, got a lesson from my coach last week.  A combination of things.  Switched irons, switched shafts in my drivers and got a new 3 wood.  The wedges are all the same, though, all within the last three weeks.

My ball flight is a lot better, but the irons    the wedges are nice, they are consistently the same.  For me, probably putting from 10 feet and in is such a huge thing and that's helped a lot this week.
Q.  How much more thought do you put into it now after two rounds as far as the money list thing and cards and all that?
TAG RIDINGS:  The key is to not think about that.
Q.  Is that possible, to not think about it?
TAG RIDINGS:  Sure.  You can think about whatever you want.  So I'm going to think about one shot.  If you're focusing on that, you're focusing on the wrong thing.
Q.  What happened to the old cliche about not being able to follow one low round with another low round?  Justin was, until he had a bogey there late which narrowed the gap a little bit, was 6 or 7 under on the Magnolia after 12 yesterday.
TAG RIDINGS:  I don't know.  I was hoping for that cliche (laughter.)  The guy has been playing great golf for the whole last stretch of the year.  I really didn't expect him to make too many mistakes anyway.  He hasn't made any in a long time.
Q.  Have you played with him before?
TAG RIDINGS:  Quite a bit, yes, over the last couple of years.
Q.  Same status, I guess, aren't you?  Roughly the same money list, category, is what I'm saying?
TAG RIDINGS:  Well, apparently not.  We're close, but we're not far.  We have played quite a bit.
Q.  When is the last time you were in a final pairing after two rounds?
TAG RIDINGS:  Last year.  I played in the final group on Saturday there, which was a good experience.  I shot 4 under that day.
Q.  Will you be playing threesomes tomorrow?
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  If we don't finish we have to come back and finish the round and then we have to play in threesomes to finish before it gets dark.
TAG RIDINGS:  So we don't run into the same problem tomorrow.
Q.  I hadn't thought that far ahead.  Do you have any plans for tonight as far as killing time and not thinking about you know what?
TAG RIDINGS: Yes, we're going to go over Dan Chopra's house, who lives right up the road here in Bay Hill, and hang out, check it out.  Hopefully he'll give me the keys to his new Lamborgini and let me take it around the block.  It's Razorback Red, too.  I don't know if he knows that, but it is.
Q.  He will tonight.
TAG RIDINGS:   I'll make sure he hears that.
Q.  He's been having a pretty good year.  I didn't think he was having that damn good of a year?
TAG RIDINGS:  He's done fine.  He's made a lot of money.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Let's go over your round.  You started on 1 today on the Mag.  Made birdie on No. 4.
TAG RIDINGS:  I actually started out off pretty shaky.  I caught a flyer on the first hole and hit it over the back, made a 20 footer for par.

Got it up and down on the next two holes, missing the green there, as well.

No. 4, I hit a 4 iron from the fairway to    short and right of the green, hit a nice little pitch up there to three feet.  Made a nice 3 footer that had some serious break and grain involved.  It's huge because it got me over the fact that I was rusty the first three holes.

And then I birdied the 8th, par 5, by hitting it in there about two feet from about 45 yards.

And No. 10, another par 5, hit it on the left side of the green, 2 putted from 50 feet.  Nothing spectacular going on, but just playing solid.

I finally made a putt on 11 from 16 feet.

14 was the next birdie.  It was a par 5.  I got a bunker shot to about three feet.

Bogeyed the next hole, the par 3.

Then on 16 and 17, made similar putts to the one I just missed for par, for birdie, and got those shots back.

And 18 was quite interesting.  I had the sun right in my eyes, obviously, on the tee shot and the second shot, but more so I had to lay up in front of the green, and the pitch shot became increasingly difficult with the sun just blinding there, but somehow got it up there about three feet and tapped it in.
Q.  Is Tag a family name?
TAG RIDINGS: No, not my family, but it's an English last name.  My mom just read it in a novel and liked it.
Q.  Do you know what novel exactly?
TAG RIDINGS:  Atlas Shrugged by Ayn Rand.
Q.  Is that in the media guide?
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  It will be now.
TAG RIDINGS:  I don't know.  I've said it before.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT