FORD CHAMPIONSHIP AT DORAL
March 4, 2006
Tag Ridings
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Can that get you going a little bit, that eagle?

TAG RIDINGS:  The putt on 9 really did it starting out.  I had not made anything up to that point.  I hit it pretty good most of the front nine.  Probably should have had two or three less putts.  I made about a 25 footer on 9, obviously a chip in on 10 was very good.

But then I just kept making putts after that, just little 6 footers when you really need them.  That was kind of it.
Q.  Expect to be near the top of the leader board coming into today, you started at 7 under?

TAG RIDINGS:  You want to be, you hope so, so you just go out and get there if you can.
Q.  You've played the back nine like not many people have, especially in these conditions; what was the key for you?

TAG RIDINGS:  I drove the ball really well today.  I was playing a 46 inch shaft in my driver the first two rounds.  I went back to 45 today and I think I hit it further today than I did the last two days, just, you know, it was clicking.  I was hitting it down the middle, the ball rolls in the fairway, I was hitting it in the rough a lot with a 46 incher, so that really helped.  And, you know, I know this course like the back of my hand, so that helps, too.
Q.  Did you surprise yourself?

TAG RIDINGS:  A little bit, chipping in for eagle and kind of getting things going, I surprise myself in the fact that not shooting 66, but the way I did it, because normally I run out of patience after eight holes of missing putts, and that's kind of what my caddie was just yelling at me about.  That's what we're supposed to be doing, staying patient, letting it come, and it came.  He's right.
Q.  Why do you feel like you know this course so well?

TAG RIDINGS:  I played the Montgomery tour on mini tours, which I can say that but nobody else but maybe Bart Bryant can say that.
Q.  Montgomery tours?

TAG RIDINGS:  Yeah, we played out here once or twice a year, playing that.  So, you know, I've had a lot of tournament rounds on this golf course.
Q.  A long ways from there to being on the leaderboard with Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson.

TAG RIDINGS:  It took me a long time to get here.  But honestly, you know, I still had to shoot the same score then as I do now.  It's amazing.  They tore it up then and they are tearing it up now.
Q.  Obviously the wind blew for today but didn't seem to affect you that much?

TAG RIDINGS:  Well, the driver really helped.  I put it in the fairway.  I think that was part of the reason why I brought that driver back out is because I knew the wind was blowing out here and getting that 46 inch driver going up, whaling at it in the wind was not going to be good.

I think if you drive it well on a day like today, you can really do some passing, and that's what happened.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT