NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 11, 2014
Tag Ridings
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Good day today, very good day.   Could have been a better day?   
TAG RIDINGS:   Very happy with today.   Made no bogeys, so I didn't let any slide that I should have.   I had a couple close shots that I didn't really get away with, but got up‑and‑down off some tough shots, so it was very nice.  
   
 Q.   I guess there was only about a tenth of an inch of rain, but did it seem softer after today than yesterday?   Did it seem the same way to you?   
TAG RIDINGS:   Minorly, as much of that could have been the dew.   What I am seeing, I didn't play in the Pro‑Am yesterday, but I'm seeing a lot of bite marks on the greens, but obviously there weren't as many on Tuesday, but they're getting a little bit bumpy.   Hopefully, it's biteless tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   You're sitting in a position where you're 67th on the priority list with three tournaments left.   Does the feeling equate to anything you've had before in your career?   
TAG RIDINGS:   Like Q‑school, yeah.   You've got to stay focused on one shot at a time and one day at a time, but you also have to try to take double bogeys out of play.   It really helps to get off to a good start in these tournaments.   You're not fighting the cut line and all of that.  
   
 Q.   It helps, but do you consciously do anything different to try to make sure that round one is good?   Firing at pins?   
TAG RIDINGS:   Nothing I didn't do last week.   Last week I played off.   It's golf, you know.   I've never even like the parking lot at the last golf course much less the golf course.   So I almost took the week off anyway because I'm injured, and I'm trying to play through the little back stuff.   But playing two days gave me some rest.  
   
 Q.   Do you like the parking lot here?   
TAG RIDINGS:   Yeah, it's a good parking lot.  
   
 Q.   It's a pretty good golf course?   
TAG RIDINGS:   It's a nice golf course.   One really mean par‑5 that everybody talks about, number 4.   It's just a mean par‑5.   If you want to take advantage of it, it might get you, but it's still a good hole.  
   
 Q.   Why is it mean?   
TAG RIDINGS:   Because we can get there in two but the margin for error on the risk‑reward second shot is zero.   The green is angled front left to back right, but it's very narrow, but you're coming in with a long iron.   Now they are still firm.   You're not stopping a 3‑iron on that green.   You might get lucky and stop the 4‑iron on there.   But today's been the wind, and I don't think anybody's necessarily going for it all that much.   
The nice play was what Jonathan Randolph hit it up pin high left on the fairway about 30 yards and had an easy pitch up the hill, but I got lucky made a 25‑footer there by playing the regular three‑shot wedge.  
   
 Q.   Did you hear what the greens are (Indiscernible)?   
TAG RIDINGS:   They're probably 10 and a half to 11.   They're the right speed.   It's what we do.   What we like.   Last weeks were too, but the grain was tough to read for me there.  
   
 Q.   How long have you been playing with a back injury?  
TAG RIDINGS:   Think since Victoria National.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
TAG RIDINGS:   It was right before that.   The back was fine, but I played too much on it, herniated disk.   Took a couple weeks off and figured out my options weren't going to be very good if I didn't try to play these.  
   
 Q.   Is this something you have to get fixed up for the season?   
TAG RIDINGS:   Aleve, a lot of Aleve, the big version, twice or three times a day.   Doc said I can't overdo it, so I'm going to have to go with what he says.   I had originally gotten, what is that?   The pack to get the original inflammation down, otherwise I couldn't walk for about three days, but it's been okay.   That's why I was thinking about taking last week off.   We've got a great chiropractor here, so that's huge.   I found a great guy last week in Charlotte too.   Man, I felt fantastic but played terrible.  
   
 Q.   Anything good besides the shot on 4?   
TAG RIDINGS:   Man, we all three hit really nice shots into that 13th hole, that par‑3.   I was last, so they guinea pigged it for me, and I got it in there about 8 feet.  
   
 Q.   What did you hit in there?   
TAG RIDINGS:   5‑iron.   Stoned it on 7 and went down the stretch there, hit about six inches from the hole and backed up to about three feet to make a three‑footer.   Then my other birdie would have been No. 2.   I had a nice 15‑footer.   Nothing crazy.   Just a nice, solid round.   Didn't let anything slip.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT