FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 24, 2013
Tag Ridings
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You start today with the bogey, and then talk us through the tee shot on number 3.   
    TAG RIDINGS:   Well, I had a nice leader.   Marino hit one in there about a foot right in front of me and showed me the line (laughing).   I don't know what to say.   Called it in the air and said, go in, and it landed right behind the hole and went in the hole.   It was beautiful.  
   
 Q.   Always good to get a hole in one, obviously.   And I saw the front side was a little bit of a struggle back and forth, but you really got it going on the back nine there?  
    TAG RIDINGS:   Yeah, I hit a couple decent shots on the front, but didn't have any great looking putts.   Made a bogey on 6 or 7, the one par‑4 along the mountain there, but it was a good bogey.   
    And then birdied 9, made some putts on 10 and 11, and kind of got it going.   Hit a lot of good shots on the back nine.  
   
 Q.   Now the South Course is not typically the course you get your scores on, but 5‑under 67.   Talk us through how it was playing today?   
    TAG RIDINGS:   Well, it's a little bit firm overall.   It's not as firm as it was in the practice rounds.   A little bit of mist and rain that probably softened it up just a shade, so that helped quite a bit, I think.   
    Some guys talking in the Pro‑Am, and it was getting really firm yesterday.   Kind of taking it deep every week, so might as well start off that way.   
   
 Q.   This is not the finish that you wanted on the day, but it's still your best first round here in six starts.   So something is going right?  
    TAG RIDINGS:   Yeah, I played a lot better in the past on the weekends here, but I'm happy to get off to a good start here.   I like it.  
   
 Q.   You started with the bogey, so maybe not the start you wanted.   But then you approached the par three, 3rd, and things turned around a little bit.   
    TAG RIDINGS:   Yeah, Marino kind of showed me the way to do it.   He hit it in there about a foot from the hole, spun it just left of the cup down there, and he missed it on the left.   So I played a draw, and it came in from the back right, and in the hole.  
   
 Q.   Is it hard to kind of temper your excitement after a hole in one?   Because a lot of times you guys kind of fall apart after that because the focus just isn't there.   
    TAG RIDINGS:   Yeah, I'm learning.   That was my main concern, but rod had to hit right after me.   Then (Indiscernible). ?  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT