TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
October 4, 2008
Tag Ridings
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome our co-leader, Tag Ridings into the interview room after a 1-under par 71. Tag, I know that bogey on the last hole probably stings a little bit. Let's get your comments on the entire day if we can.
 TAG RIDINGS: You know, I played solid today. I hit a lot of good shots towards the middle of the greens and had some decent looks at it. Outside of a couple giveaways on the front nine and the one on 18, I played really good for 15 holes.
 JOHN BUSH: Take us through that last hole, if you can.
 TAG RIDINGS: Just a simple drive down the middle. Laid up and had a good number for the pitching wedge. I mean, we talked through it really good and got a great number. I just tugged it up on the top tier a little bit trying to play it off slope, and didn't give the pace of the putt as much respect as I should have. 
 JOHN BUSH: Your thoughts on entering the final round tied with Charles. Your thoughts on tomorrow. 
 TAG RIDINGS: Just me and Charles right now? 
 JOHN BUSH: I think so. 
 TAG RIDINGS: It'll be a great pairing. He's a good dude. We've been hanging out lost this week. That's a good pairing to just kind of go out there and play some good golf and hopefully make a lot of birdies.

 Q. With the fairways as wide and as soft and being able to play driver off every hole, does that kind of tailor to your game?
 TAG RIDINGS: It does. Driver off every hole is not really what's going on out there for me, because the tees are up in certain situations. Some of these holes you just put it in the fairway and you've give yourself a good look at it. 
 I hit a lot of 3-woods on several holes that's just put me in the fairway. That's of utmost importance right now is getting that ball in your hand.

 Q. The last putt, tell us about it a little bit.
 TAG RIDINGS: The putt down the hill on 18, I ran a little far by and left myself with just a nice uphill right-to-lefter and pulled it a little bit.

 Q. You said you've been hanging out with Charles this week. So what kinds of things have you been doing? Strictly golf or are you enjoying Upstate? 
 TAG RIDINGS: Just because we're in the same hotel and our wives are friends. Our wives are friends. Just chitchatting. Got a two year old that's running around the lobby and just terrorizing all the workers, so they help keep on eye on him a little bit here and there.

 Q. So expect a friendly match tomorrow?
 TAG RIDINGS: Absolutely. Me and Charles have played together a couple times. He's a great guy, and I look forward to playing with him.

 Q. He said with the conditions and the weather supposedly being a little bit nicer he expects more of a birdiefest. Do you think you're going to have to make more than normal than the last few days considering the weather was so bad?
 TAG RIDINGS: I think so. The think the weather was very good for golf today. The fact that nobody really took it deep in the last few groups was interesting. I think it had to do with the greens and the spike marks that were developed. 
 There are enough guys that have moved themselves into contention from further back now. You've got a lot more guys that can take it deep. There will be somebody that goes low, and that's going to be your winner.

 Q. What's the main reason you are where you are? Throughout the course of the week, what have you done well?
 TAG RIDINGS: I putted really well, especially the first two rounds. And today, I made a couple that kept me hanging in there. I wouldn't say it was a great putting day, but I hit some good putts. 
 That's probably the main thing around this golf course, you don't make mistakes. So you've got wide greens to hit it to and wide area to play away from and away towards. Probably course management would be the other part of that. 

 Q. Davis put up a 66. He said he had pristine conditions and so on. You obviously had a lot of spike marks. How do you combat that and get through that and just get them to roll? 
 TAG RIDINGS: Well, the better you roll it the better they'll roll through those. At the same time, everybody is dealing with it. It's a fair layout. If we played it down tomorrow we'd all be doing the same thing. Some guys would complain and some guys would succeed.

 Q. Your mindset tomorrow, attitude off the first tee?
 TAG RIDINGS: Just stay solid and stay patient and, you know, the birdies will come if you let them. 
 JOHN BUSH: Let's go through the birdies, starting on No. 5. 
 TAG RIDINGS: Birdied the par-5. Hit a really good tee ball there which gave me a good look at it. The wind caught my second shot and hit a really good pitch from in between the bunkers to about three feet. That was a good solid birdie to get back on track. 
 8, I hit a 3-wood on the green about 15 feet from the hole. Didn't make that putt for eagle, but it was a good birdie. 
 11, I finally made a good putt. We had had several putts throughout the day that were kind of straightening out at the hole, so they would break in the beginning and then just kind of straighten up. We would always miss it on the high side. Finally we had one that turned in at the end. 
 15 was nice. That one hung in there for me. It was the first putt in the whole group that looked like it was dying out, and actually caught the lip and fell in. I think the guys that I played with were a little frustrated at that point because they had about ten putts each that just hung on the edge.

 Q. Overall, do the greens seem slower today than the first two days? A lot of putts are stopping short. 
 TAG RIDINGS: Definitely slower today.

 Q. Like a half foot slower?
 TAG RIDINGS: If they were eleven before, then maybe ten and a half just from the moisture and the bumps. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT