WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 31, 2020
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Comments on the round and making a hole-in-one out there.
SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, I guess whenever you make a hole-in-one in Phoenix it's pretty awesome. But I just did it on the wrong side where everybody didn't see it.
But I drove it really well today, irons were good, putter's starting to roll. I think it's the first time in probably a couple years, maybe even more, that I had two eagles today. So I made a bomb on 13 from probably 60 feet, and then obviously, making the hole-in-one on 7 was, that's a total bonus. So I feel good about where my game's at, about what I'm working on, and so I'm looking forward to the weekend.
Q. How many hole-in-ones is that for you now?
SCOTT PIERCY: You know, it's probably 10 to 15, somewhere in there. I stopped kind of counting, but it is my first one on the PGA TOUR, so that's pretty exciting. I don't get too excited typically, but I actually jumped up and down and a bunch of stuff. So it was fun.
Q. How many people do you think were out on the hole that saw it?
SCOTT PIERCY: A couple hundred, maybe. So it was, I got up on the 8th tee and I was kind of like, I don't have to play the rest of the holes, do I? Like, I get a free pass, right? But I calmed myself. And after you get such a high like that, trying to get your emotions back in check is something I haven't experienced out here before.
Q. How challenging is it to reign everything back in and start to refocus?
SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, you know, I didn't hit a good tee shot on 8, but I missed it in the right spot, so I had a good angle to the green, hit a good second shot, didn't hit a very good putt. And then I hit a really good drive on 9 to a perfect number. And I think I just got so excited to hit it coming into 9, you know, I didn't take my time and I was still kind of like jazzing. But ending up making a bogey on 9 is, whatever, it pisses you off. But overall today was really good.
Q. How would you feel if the tournament was just the 18th -- I mean the 16th hole, 18 times in a row?
SCOTT PIERCY: I think I would need to wear ear plugs. It gets pretty loud in there. I would like it because I'm usually a pretty good iron player. So, I mean, there's a lot of energy going, it would probably be overload, but it's definitely fun going in there.
Q. With all the rowdiness that gets talked about with 16, what's the most bizarre thing you've seen on that hole?
SCOTT PIERCY: You know, I don't know. I mean, I probably can't say it on a camera.
Q. PG rated.
SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, it's -- people being crazy is about as PG as you can say it.
Q. 49ers or the Chiefs?
SCOTT PIERCY: Oh, man, I don't know. I don't really watch too much football, but let's go with Mahomes, Chiefs.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT