SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 5, 2016
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  65 on moving day; that'll do some work.  
SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, you know, I've been hitting it really well the last two days.  I think I've missed three greens.  You know, I know where to leave it around here, and the ball-striking has been there.  Just patience with the putter.  It's so close, but at the same time so frustrating sometimes.  But the score is good today.  Until the last hole I hit 17 straight greens, and I was hitting it pretty close, just an inch here or inch there could have been really special.   
 Q.  Coming from Shanghai, what are the fatigue levels like right now?  
SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, I think last night was the first night I slept somewhat normal.  A little tired this week, and just like I said, the patience level with the putter has been tough for me, keeping my emotions in check was tough for me yesterday.  I did a little bit better, but the putter needs to get a little bit warmer I feel like, and we'll be right where I need to be.   
 Q.  Can you talk about your round a little bit today?  
SCOTT PIERCY: I just hit it really good.  I happened to hit it close enough where I could sneak a few birdie putts in there, but I need the putter to warm up tomorrow and keep hitting it the way I am, and we'll be in a good spot.   
 Q.  The putt on 18, did you think you had that one?  Looked pretty darned close.  
SCOTT PIERCY: That's what they all looked like today.  I finally thought the last hole it was going to go in, and I don't know how it didn't.  It was sitting right behind the hole.  Trying to be patient, which is tough sometimes, especially as good as I've been hitting it the last few days, so just waiting my turn for the putts to fall.   
 Q.  You've had a good run the last six months.  The U.S. Open experience, did that change the mindset at all, confidence thing?  What was that experience like?  
SCOTT PIERCY: It was great.  I mean, I feel like I should be competing week in, week out, and that just kind of told me I have the game to win a major I feel like, and I've always kind of thought that, but I guess everybody else's mind made it realistic, I guess.  My game is in a good spot, and if I can put it all together -- I was talking about my putting killing me.  My putting has killed me this week.  I was 110th in putting this week.  Give me average, and I mean, it's not funny.  It's going to be -- if I continue to hit it and do what I'm doing and the putting improves where it needs to be, then we've got good things on the horizon.   
 Q.  We were talking about it's been a great week for local guys from Bonanza High School.  What are your memories?  You were a soccer player, right?  
SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, I played soccer at Bonanza.   
 Q.  Did you guys win a couple state championships?  
SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah.   
 Q.  What position did you play?  
SCOTT PIERCY: I played sweeper.  I actually won more state championships in soccer than I did in golf.  Kind of weird.  Yeah, just the good thing is, too, is this week is set up perfect for me.  My birthday is tomorrow, so for me to -- it would be a pretty awesome thing if I could win on my birthday.  I did what I needed to do today to have a chance, as long as the guys on the back nine don't run away from me a little bit.  But I'm still going to probably need six or seven tomorrow to get it done, but at least I have a chance if I shoot 10 or 11.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT