WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
July 3, 2016
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Scott, T2 at the Open a couple weeks ago and now another runner up finish.  Give us your thoughts on the today.
SCOTT PIERCY: Today was a little rougher than I wanted.  I talked about driving the ball well, and I didn't.  It kind of put me behind the 8-ball pretty much all day.  18 was the one really good drive that I hit all day, and other than that, I was just kind of clawing to stay there and try and make pars.
Q. Were you able to take momentum out of coming close at another big event like this?
SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, even though I didn't have my best stuff today, I still had a chance to win really, or close to.  You know, I'll definitely learn a little bit from it so I can apply it to next time.  But I mean, today, we both kind of drove it all over the place and managed -- I managed it pretty well.  Overall I'm happy about the week.  A little disappointed I didn't win, but it's a positive.
Q. Talk about the putt on 16.  Pretty good.
SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, I mean, just those little -- inch here or inch there is kind of the difference between winning and finishing second or third.  You know, I felt like I hit some good shots today off the tees and got some bad breaks, hit a tree, going farther in the trees, bounce -- be cutting into the fairway and bounce up the hill into the rough.  Even some of my better shots I felt like got bad breaks, and then I'd hit bad shots that were just bad.  I was kind of just always staying behind the 8-ball with it.  Like I said, I thought I did good to kind of keep it together.  That birdie on 14 I thought was huge, and then I just missed on 15, got a terrible lie, and I actually hit a pretty good chip shot there to give myself nine or ten feet.
But the putt on 16 was a good one, then I -- it was close.  I'm happy with it, but obviously we want to win being out there, and knowing that I came as close as I did, not having my best stuff is -- I think is a positive, as well.
Q. How much was your focus on chasing down Jason, and when did it kind of shift to, wow, DJ has taken over?
SCOTT PIERCY: Well, when Jason chips it in on 2, I mean, it's -- I guess that's how you get to No. 1 in the world.  You do stuff like that.  He did some amazing things today.  He makes par on 13 when he has to chip it out of the bunker, gets it up, putts it out -- that's awesome.  I mean, as soon as he gets two up on you, you're chasing him.
I felt like I did pretty good.  On No. 3 there I felt like I hit a pretty good shot.  My ball actually came back instead of bouncing four or five yards.  It seemed like when I hit a good shot, it just wasn't rewarded today.
Obviously 16 was probably a big swing.  I think DJ made birdie when we were about ready to hit our second shots, and Jason struggled there.  You know, I thought if I could make -- I felt like if I birdied two out of the last three, I'd have a chance.  At that point I was three back, but 18 can be a tough hole.  I thought I made the putt on 16, and then 17 I didn't give myself a very good chance there.  But 18 was pretty sweet.
Q. Dustin shot I think 66-66 on the weekend.  How good were those scores?
SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, he won for a reason.  That's pretty awesome.  We all know how good DJ is, and he's shown it the last two weeks.  To be nipping at his heels makes me feel good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT