WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
July 2, 2016
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
.   
 Q.  How much of these three sub-70 rounds can you attribute to the confidence you gained being runner-up in the Open a couple months ago?  
SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, it definitely helps the confidence.  Trying to hit those fairways at the Open and these fairways don't seem quite as hard.  But knowing that I drove it well there, and you need to drive it here to play well is part of the confidence you gain.   
 Q.  Talk about those fairways.  You missed left at 18.  What was the thought process with the bunker shot?  
SCOTT PIERCY: You know, 5 is a good score there.  I tried to -- I thought the ball would come out a little quicker off that downslope, but I actually nipped it really good, so if it lands on the green, it's probably four, five feet away, just needed to be another yard in the air.  But like on 18, I missed my angle there.  I missed it left.  I could miss it in the right tee and have an angle.  I really only did that twice today.  The only one was on 14.  My putter saved me.  But other than that, I played clean, solid, and I didn't really have a lot of stress today.   
 Q.  What will it take for Scott Piercy to get his fourth PGA TOUR win?  
SCOTT PIERCY: Just drive it well again.  I don't think I have -- the putter hasn't showed up quite yet.  Maybe once or twice here and there.  I feel like if the putter is solid, I keep driving it well, then I'll have a good chance.   
 Q.  Well played out there, 3-under par 67.  You have a chip-in eagle, a couple tap-in birdies, but no question that par putt at 14 was huge.  
SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, that kind of kept the momentum going.  15, 16, 17, 18 aren't the easiest of holes.  You know, that was really the -- besides there and 18, the only two drives I put myself in any kind of trouble really.  At least with having a bad angle into the green.   
It was nice that it finally showed up for once and saved me, but I'm going to try to keep that to a minimum.   
 Q.  Talk about the thought process on that second shot at 18.  Obviously you're fortunate to walk away with bogey, but what were you thinking about there?  
SCOTT PIERCY: You know, it was a hard shot, the second shot, because it was in the deep rough and you had to get it up enough to fly above the rough but then you've got the trees there, 30, 40 yards in front of you to keep it under, and then you want to hit it hard enough if it hits a leaf it kind of gets through it.  So I kind of just muscled it a little bit and it got on the back, and then getting in the back bunker, you're just trying to make a 5.  5 is a good score.  If you make a 4, you got lucky kind of.  I hit a great bunker shot, I thought it would come out a little bit quicker, and just came out a little softer than I thought, and it needed another yard, but I nipped it real well, and it was close.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT