WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
July 1, 2016
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What have been your keys through 36 holes?  
SCOTT PIERCY: You know, I've played pretty well.  I'm actually a little frustrated.  I haven't really rolled the putter well this week.  I felt like I've left a few out there, and it's been a real test.  Hopefully over the weekend I can make some putts.   
 Q.  Clearly the course setup is a little different than the U.S. Open at Oakmont, yet scoring has been comparable so far.  From a mental grind what commonalities are there?  
SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, here you've got to be able to drive the ball well to put yourself into position to even get it on the green.  I felt like I've done that well.  I've missed on the right side of the fairways.  I've hit a lot of good shots, I just haven't made birdie when I've hit good shots.  I've made a couple really stupid bogeys out of the middle of the fairway, 8-irons, 9-irons out of the middle of the fairway and I've made some bogeys.  A little frustrating this week, but hopefully keep hitting it well and I'll make some putts.   
 Q.  Back-to-back 69s, particularly today when the conditions were tough out there, how did you play?  
SCOTT PIERCY: You know, I played solid.  I really just had one hole where I kind of really kicked myself, No. 6.  I had 150 yards out of the middle of the fairway and ended up making bogey.  Looking there like I'm trying to make birdie and come away with a bogey, which some of these holes like 9 I've been having a hard time with, making bogey there.   
But I feel like the putter just needs to wake up a little bit.  I've hit it some -- I've hit it enough inside of 10 feet to really make a few more birdies and just haven't even sniffed hitting a good putt.  Just maybe go hit a few putts, try to work it out, and roll a few in over the weekend.   
 Q.  You come off a tie for second off the U.S. Open a two weeks ago.  How much does that help on a day like this at Firestone?  
SCOTT PIERCY: Well, yeah, I mean, you see the leaderboards out here and nobody is going anywhere.  McGirt came back to us today, which -- it's playing tough.  To shoot even par around here today is a really good score.  I think you're seeing that on the leaderboard.  I think 1-under was tied for ninth or tenth yesterday, and it's fifth today.  You usually don't see that.  It just goes to show you how much the wind is blowing and how tough it's playing.   
 Q.  What's the key to do well here?  
SCOTT PIERCY: You've got to drive the ball well here.  It's a lot of sloped fairways that you're trying to hit into.  You've got to really know the angles into the greens.  It's okay to miss it maybe in the right rough to get a shot at the green, or in the left rough.  Like 18 I was just trying to make sure I didn't hit it left so I had an angle at that pin.  There's a lot of tough shots.  It's demanding, and it's showing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT