U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2016
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  First of all, you were in this tournament right up until the end.  Obviously not the way you want to finish, but fighting for the championship.  Talk about the round today.  
SCOTT PIERCY: I felt like I played great.  I got a little unlucky on 16, where the ball came back and three putted there.  Hit good putts, and then on 17, you're trying to catch it up.  I felt like I put it in good positions all day.  It's hard to attack the flags, the greens being as fast as they were.  But felt like I controlled myself and controlled the ball.  Felt like I rolled the putter really well today too.   
So a lot of positives out of this week, and look forward.   
 Q.  Were you informed about the situation with Dustin and his ball?  
SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah.  I mean, they told us they were talking about it.  But, I mean, we didn't ask any questions.  We were involved in what we were doing.  We didn't even ask what it was.   
 Q.  If you could reflect on what you can take away from the week, the tournament, from the four rounds.  
SCOTT PIERCY: I think I felt like I can contend in a Major.  The last three Majors, I've been -- I think at the PGA, I was 12th going into the weekend.  At Augusta, I was third or fourth going into the weekend.  This weekend, I was third, fourth, seventh, you know, whatever day that was.  So I've been kind of working up to it and I think today showed that the nerves were good, the ball striking was there, putter was there.   
Felt like I had a chance to win with six, seven holes left.  And just a couple of those bogeys coming down the stretch not enough to catch him.   
 Q.  Sounds like somebody just confirmed their three-stroke lead.  Do you know him well?  Your thoughts on him as a Major champion?  Was it bound to happen?  
SCOTT PIERCY: Yes, best player of the ball wins.  He's a great player, he's won 10, 11 times, whatever.  He's one of the best drivers of the golf ball out here.  For him to win at a U.S. Open is -- that's why he always contends.   
 Q.  The way you're playing right now, do you feel can you come into Major championships now and say I can win this thing?  
SCOTT PIERCY: Yes.  I've got to bring the game I know I can bring and be consistent at it.  I feel like I can compete.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT