WGC DELL MATCH PLAY
March 23, 2016
Ben An
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You are 1-up coming to 18, but Scott made the birdie to tie.  How did you feel like the match went throughout the day?  
BEN AN: It was obviously disappointing.  Scott made some good birdies, so we deserved the half, I guess.   
 Q.  Did you feel like you deserved a half?  
SCOTT PIERCY: You know, I feel like I gave him about three holes right in the middle, 7, 8, 9.  I hit some bad shots.  He still hit good shots.  I felt like he had a couple loose ones, kind of gave me back a couple there, 14 and 16, a little bit.  I was clawing and grinding.   
I'm happy to get a half after being down three.  I know he's disappointed, but he really only missed a couple shots today.  He played well.   
 Q.  Do you like the new change in the format that you got a half a point as opposed to going extra holes?  
SCOTT PIERCY: The way it's been going, it's kind of anybody's game at this point.  I guess it's better than zero.   
 Q.  What do you think about having a half point moving forward for the week?  
BEN AN: I like it.  You don't play extra holes.  I don't mind that.   
 Q.  Did you feel like you might have been in the driver's seat, sitting in the middle of the fairway with maybe 120 out?  
BEN AN: No.  I think it was a tough shot.  Had to hit probably the perfect shot from there.  The putts didn't go in.  Knew it wasn't going to be an easy hole.  I was disappointed I missed the putt, but it is what it is.   
 Q.  Scott, after you hit that shot, he only had, what, five or six feet?  
SCOTT PIERCY: Nine feet.   
 Q.  He's only got nine feet, you know you have to chip it close enough.  Were you feeling the thing?  
SCOTT PIERCY: I made that really look easy, but that was really tough.  I didn't know if I should try to hit a real high one that flew or do what I did in the bank.  That's why I looked at it so long.  I knew I had to hit a good one.  It was kind of all or nothing.   
 Q.  Did you think it was going in, his putt?  
SCOTT PIERCY: About halfway, it looked pretty good and then it started breaking.   
 Q.  They always say in match play, you have to assume he's going to make it?  
SCOTT PIERCY: Honestly, he didn't play bad today.  He really didn't.  He mis-hit two shots and kind of left the door open for me.  He's a lot more disappointed than I'm happy, I'm sure.   
 Q.  Is that how you feel, Ben?  
BEN AN: Yeah, of course.  I was winning.  Going 1-up at the end.  Obviously he made some good birdies to win all those holes.  It's not like he made pars and won.  He actually made a birdie.   
 Q.  Graeme was talking about how even he lost to Jason Day, he felt like he probably played better than Jason did.  Do you think you played better?  
BEN AN: I guess the front nine I played better than him.  The back nine, just had some bad shots.  I guess it equals out and that's why you see the half on the board.  So that's what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT