WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 3, 2016
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Did you see this coming?
SCOTT PIERCY: Not this.  You know, I brought out a new guy to work with this week, and we put in a lot of time Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and felt like I got it back at least on the right tracks to see results this week.  I was pleasantly surprised.  It was something that I had been -- it's familiar with me, so putting it on the golf course was kind of like, okay, let's see where it's at.  I felt like I did a good job of it now.
Q. Who are you working with?
SCOTT PIERCY: Jeff Smith.
Q. Was it grip related, posture?
SCOTT PIERCY: No, I'm pretty good at those things.  Basically just getting into my backswing deeper.  I kind of was faking it instead of getting my shoulders all the way back.
Q. Did you notice it during practice this week that you were hitting the ball better, scoring well or was it just out of the box today?
SCOTT PIERCY: I saw signs of it, yeah.  I hit balls for about eight hours on Monday, so it definitely got going in the right direction.  Once you get on the golf course, you kind of have to trust it.  So that's where you see if it's feeling decent, get on the golf course and trust it.  And I did a pretty good job of that through about 12 holes and I kind of got a little loose.
Q. You were aware that you were leading everybody?
SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, there's leaderboards everywhere.
Q. Did it phase you at all?
SCOTT PIERCY: Well, when you're 7-under through 12 holes on this golf course, you've got to figure you're in the lead.  It's not an easy golf course, first of all, and there's leaderboards everywhere, too.
I just felt like I birdied every hole.
Q. What's it like for you as a player; do you come in thinking you have to be mentally sharp with this kind of field?
SCOTT PIERCY: I feel like I can compete with those guys if my game's there.  So this golf course is demanding, so you've got to be on your game.
You know, today was there, so hopefully I can do it the rest of the week.
Q. Does it give you a jolt of energy when you see your name over Phil and Spieth and Rory and those guys?
SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, we all know we're trying to beat those guys week-in, week-out.  They have proved it.  I haven't proved it week-in, week-out, but when my game's there, I'm pretty decent.
We all know they are there.  They are looking at my name today.  So maybe they will do it tomorrow.
Q. How satisfying is it just to play your way back into these elite events?
SCOTT PIERCY: It's nice to be pretty healthy, actually.  I had elbow surgery two years ago, 2 1/2 years ago, so that was kind of what knocked me down there for a few years.
But to come back, win, like a year and a half after surgery and then get back in the Top-50 in the world, make it back to THE TOUR Championship, it's satisfying.
Q. Was there any time today where you thought, wow, this could be a really good round?
SCOTT PIERCY: I think it's a really good round right now.  I mean, if you're thinking like 59 or something --
Q. No, like hey, I'm 2-under, I'm hitting the ball great, this is going to be a good day.
SCOTT PIERCY: I hit a really good shot into No. 4, that long par 3, with a 4-iron, and ended up making birdie.  And after I made birdie, I was like, all right, swing feels pretty good.  I've got a 3-under through four.  Let's see what we can do, and I just continued to hit good shot after good shot.  The score kept going.
I knew I had tough holes ahead of me but this place you can't really get ahead of yourself.  You have tough holes everywhere, and you've got to play solid.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT