SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 15, 2016
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Scott, let's talk about you came within an eye lash of a 65-65 start.  All in all, though, you have to be pleased.
SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, overall I'm pleased.  It's the should've-would've-could'ves this week.  Ball striking has been better this week, which last week it wasn't.  That's why golf is so frustrating.
Q. Conditions different today than they were yesterday?
SCOTT PIERCY: This morning there was really no wind the first say nine holes, and then the wind picked up pretty much the same direction, maybe a little bit more out of the south today than yesterday.  Play is a little harder with this wind, to be honest.  Straight out of the west isn't as bad, but south is a little different.
Q. Talk about the game right now.  Obviously you've played very well here for two days.  Do you feel good going into the weekend, everything is clicking?
SCOTT PIERCY: You know, I feel like my game is going in the right direction.  I've got some good things I'm working on, and I have to go execute now.  So that's the biggest thing.
Q. Looking forward to this weekend?
SCOTT PIERCY: Oh, yeah.  Every weekend in Hawaii I look forward to.
Q. Scott, another good one here at Wailaie.  After Thursday you said the ball striking was there; the putter was not.  How was it today?
SCOTT PIERCY: A little bit of the same.  I struck it well.  I made a couple of good putts, but there on the last I just didn't convert it.  So should've-would've-could've on Thursday and Friday with the putter, but looking forward to the weekend.
Q. How important was it to get out this morning, the wind down for much of the day, to post a good one, knowing that it might be windier as the day goes on?
SCOTT PIERCY: It's nice to get the Back 9 with no wind.  That's the easier nine out here.  So make a few birdies and try to get 1 through six, those are the tougher holes out here.  Try to get around those with a good number.  It's unfortunate I didn't get No. 9, but I'm in a good spot.
Q. Have you worked out those little things with the putter, you're in the mix heading into the weekend.
SCOTT PIERCY: You know, I felt like I rolled the ball well today.  Yesterday I didn't roll the ball well.  So maybe just getting more and more comfortable on the greens and hopefully they go in.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT