CIMB CLASSIC
October 29, 2015
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So a great round of 62.  Did you see that coming into today?
SCOTT PIERCY: You know, last week I hit the ball pretty well and I didn't make any putts.  And I got a lot of bad breaks last week and so I felt like my game was in a good spot.
62, you got to get some things to go right for you.  I made some putts, finally.
I had a -- I made two really key putts for par and then I chipped one in from being dead.
So got a little lucky, got the putter rolling, and I continued to hit it pretty solid.
Q. What hole did you chip in on?
SCOTT PIERCY: 13 up the hill.  I hit it long left there, just dead, short sided, 10 feet below the green.  I just hit this flop shot and just right in the hole.  So just hit it and rolled right in the hole.
So, total good fortune, good break, and it's nice to see the ball go in the hole.
Q. When you're going low like that, and you've done this before, what's going through your head?
SCOTT PIERCY: You know, today -- I felt pretty good today, even on the range, I just felt very calm.  Felt like I warmed up well.
I've been struggling with the putter, not making a whole lot.  So I just kind of focused on getting my speed right on the greens and my caddie gave me a few really good reads today and I just kept trying to hit good shot after good shot.
And the putts are going to fall, they're going to fall.  So luckily they did.
Q. With the conditions being soft this week, is the putter the key?
SCOTT PIERCY: You know what, you got to drive it in the fairway.  You have to hit it good.  Because if you don't hit it in the fairway you can't attack the pins.
So, it's kind of a combination.  It's really -- if you drive it in the fairway there's a lot of birdie chances.  If you don't drive it in the fairway, you're scrambling to hit it in the right spots to be able to just to make pars.
So, it's really a golf course that you can get if you're really playing well, but the golf course is also going to get you if you're not.
So, I happened to miss it in the right spots when I did miss it.  And I hit it in a lot of fairways, which really helps.
When you play lift, clean and place, I had my hand on the ball a lot today and so that makes a big difference.
Q. Do you feel like these conditions, with the heat and everything, do they favor a certain type of player mentally or physically?
SCOTT PIERCY: I love the heat.  I grew up in Vegas, so I'm used to the heat.  Maybe not the humidity like this, but some guys aren't accustomed to it.  I love it.  So, it's player to player, really.
Q. So your game plan for tomorrow?  Anything you're working on?
SCOTT PIERCY: Well, can I shoot 62 tomorrow too?  You know, just continue to try to do the same.
Just hit it solid, put it in the fairways, give myself a look at a putt for birdie and I did that well.
I think I only missed three or four greens today.  So, if you got 14 chances, you're doing pretty good.
Q. One last question, was there any frustration after the way you played last week coming into this week?
SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, I was really frustrated, especially being at home.  I felt like I played absolute worst I could have played and still finished Top-25.  So that's why I still felt like my game was in a good spot.
But, or I should say I scored really terrible last week.
So like I said, the putts didn't go in last week and lo and behold this week.  Filled them up pretty good on first day.  So, hopefully it continues.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT