BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 20, 2015
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about your accomplishment if you could.  
SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, I won today getting to the TOUR Championship.  I mean, Jason is going to be tough to beat.  The putter let me down a little bit on the front nine and really had to be patient today.  You know, I hung in there, and I got my barrage of birdies at the end, which made for a good spot.   
 Q.  How do you feel your game is going into East Lake next week?  
SCOTT PIERCY: Pretty good.  Yeah, you know, I was really happy with my game today.  I felt like my swing was in a good spot.  I felt like I had all my gears, the full game.  The putter -- just a couple five-footers on the front nine just really let me down.  The back nine I kind of settled down with the putter and struck it a little better, and coming down the stretch I made some nice putts.   
 Q.  And now you get to play all four majors next year.  You've got to feel pretty good there.  
SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, when I started the Playoffs I was inside the number and I didn't play well the first couple weeks, so to play really well here to get in means a lot.   
 Q.  When did you know or kind of realize that, all right, I'm kind of safely in?  
SCOTT PIERCY: 18 when I made the putt.  I mean, I knew that 15 when I made the birdie putt there that my chances were good.  16 is a good hole, but I hit a great drive and I hit a good second shot and I had a putt that broke about two feet there.  I was thinking I was going to make a par and then hopefully birdie 18 to be in for sure.  But that was a great putt I made on 16.  And then obviously a nice two-putt on 17.  18, I could have got there in two, but I didn't like the downhill left to right lie with a 3-wood, and I told my caddie, I said, the last four or five holes I've stuffed it with wedges, so let's lay it up and stuff a wedge in there, and luckily enough I hit it to about ten feet and made it.   
 Q.  The fact that you struggled the first two events, was that frustrating or was that motivation?  
SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, it's frustrating to not play well.  It's never any fun.  My game has felt like it's in a good spot, I just had to manage it well, be patient, and I did those two things really well this week.   
 Q.  (Question on Jason Day's play today.)  
SCOTT PIERCY: You know, it wasn't playing easy.  He played really solid.  He hit some really good putts that didn't go in.  He got up-and-down when he needed to.  With a five-, six-, seven-stroke lead, he did exactly what he needed to do.  I couldn't put pressure on him because I got so far behind on the front, and I don't know what everybody else was doing, but finishing where I finished, obviously they didn't come after him too much, either.  He played exactly how he needed to play, safe, conservative, pars, grab a birdie here and there, and he's the No. 1 player in the world now.  That's frigging awesome.  He's played awesome.  You know, everybody felt like they were playing for second, so I feel happy where I finished.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT