BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 19, 2015
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just talk about your round today and what was going well for you again today.
SCOTT PIERCY: You know, I just scored really well today.  I started off -- actually the whole day I really kind of scraped it as far as ball-striking, but that's why I went to the range straight afterwards.  You know, I just kind of kept it around, I hit some good wedges.  I rolled the putter really well today, kept myself in the game with a couple long two-putts, hit a couple good chip shots that kind of kept the momentum, and you know, I was just trying to not give anything back and just kind of plug away when I could and grab a birdie.
Q. How did you find the course today after all the rain?
SCOTT PIERCY: The golf course is in pretty good shape, actually, for having so much rain.  You know, I think the different wind was what got everybody kind of off their game a little bit.  But you know, it was a little wetter.  The ball obviously wasn't rolling yesterday, but today it was definitely not going.  It was a little colder, so played a little longer today, too.
You know, the tougher holes -- I feel as though the tougher holes today with this wind and it being a little colder made the golf course play tougher.
Q. Talk about your mindset going into tomorrow and chasing down a six-shot lead.
SCOTT PIERCY: You know, this kid must be eating trophies for breakfast or something like that.  I'd love to know what he's having for breakfast.  For me I've got to get to TOUR Championship.  That's my first goal, so I've just got to keep moving forward, keep the card clean, grab some birdies, keep looking forward.  You know, Jason has got to put it in neutral a little bit for us to catch him, and we've got to play good.  You know, if he shoots even par, I've got to shoot 6-under to beat him.  It's as simple as that.  If he shoots 1-under each side, it's going to be tough.
You know, the wind is going to be a little different direction again, so everybody will be a little -- probably off kilter because it's something new, but just try to keep moving forward.
Q. And then talk about your roll since winning the Barbasol Championship and kind of the roll you've been on since.
SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, for me it feels like it's been a really up-and-down year.  I win, I have a second, a couple top 10s, and then the weeks in between, there will be flashes of brilliance and then a 60th finish, a 50th finish.  So for me I feel like when it's been good, it's been really good, and when it's been off, it's been a little frustrating for me.
But the game -- I feel like I'm in a good spot to really do some good things.  Obviously through three days this week, it's pretty good.  One more and get to the TOUR Championship, hopefully have a chance to win if Jason puts it in neutral maybe.  But things are starting to round out, being a year and a half out of surgery, and I don't have to worry about my arm.  I feel like I'm in a good spot.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT