PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2015
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about your round.
SCOTT PIERCY: You know, pretty happy with it.  I started off really well.  Really struck the ball well the first 7 holes.  Didn't really get a whole lot out of it, as far as making the putts early.  And I had -- hit a couple of bad shots, 8, 9, kind of struggled with ball-striking for four or five holes and then hung in there.  And I was proud of the way I hung in there.
And coming in, I made a couple of putts, and that's nice to see.  Overall I'm happy with it and I'm looking forward to the weekend.
Q. Judging by the overabundance of media, would you say you're under the radar in second place?
SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, I'm not the big name here, we've got Jordan and all of those guys.  Hopefully we can talk about it on Sunday.
Q. I was going to say, does it affect you mentally or does it let you do your thing quietly?
SCOTT PIERCY: No, I'm going to do my thing and try to win, obviously.  But they're used to it.  You guys don't talk about me very often.  It's probably a good thing sometimes.  But hopefully there's something to talk about at the end of the week.
Q. (Inaudible.)
SCOTT PIERCY: You know, I've just got to go play, I've got to hit one shot.  This golf course is demanding.  You've got to be there every shot.  To hit a good shot you've got to be mentally there, you've got to be physically there.  You've got to stay in the moment and it ends up being just golf.
Q. How important was it for you to stay patient after you were hurt?
SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, you know, that's the first time I've ever been hurt through any sport, soccer, basketball, tennis, whatever, golf.  It scared me a lot at first.  I had the best doctors working on me, the best physical therapists.  And I just took baby steps.  And my goal was to come back better than I was and hopefully that's where I'm going.
Q. (Inaudible.)
SCOTT PIERCY: I think it's getting there.  It's showing some good signs.  I had won twice before I got hurt.
Q. (Inaudible.)
SCOTT PIERCY: We're going in the right direction.  There's a lot of good stuff going on.  All you can do is keep trying to get better.
Q. Do you have a strategy for tomorrow?  Are you going to watch the TV coverage at all and see what's going on?
SCOTT PIERCY: I'll probably watch it a little bit.  It depends, if we get storms and it rains a little bit, everything will soften, it will start to get firm.  In the wind changes and comes out of the east, it just depends.
Q. What do you think it's going to take for you to win the next two rounds?
SCOTT PIERCY: You know, I told my caddie, I said three a day and I win, he kind of looked at me and said, yeah.  That's kind of been my goal is shoot three a day.  I'll take 12 and be really happy with it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT