PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2015
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great 4-under, incredible round this afternoon in the wind.  
SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, it was.  It played tough out there.  I'm tired.   
 Q.  How do you stay in it mentally when you have a late round today, early round tomorrow?  What do you have to do to prepare for that?  
SCOTT PIERCY: Try to conserve energy, really.  I'm out here almost at 8 o'clock, or whatever, yeah, almost 8 o'clock, so it will be a quick turnaround, but try to get some food and rest and get at it tomorrow.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, I was starting to feel like my game is coming around.  The wave of confidence is starting to build, I feel like.  And around here, if you hit quality shots, you get rewarded.  If you don't hit quality shots, you're really screwed sometimes.  But every time I've hit a good shot, I've been rewarded with it.  So that's really nice.   
 Q.  4-under in this round, with this wind and everything that you dealt with today, is that better than the 6-under in the early round?  
SCOTT PIERCY: I don't know.  I'm sure they had a little bit of wind, too.  But I played really well.  I hit a lot of greens, hit a lot of fairways, I played all the 500 yard par-4s even par, which is, they're almost like par-5s.   
18, I hit driver, 5-wood.  I can't tell you the last time I hit a wood into a par-4.  So, just playing really long, and I played smart, laid it up when I needed to, and made a couple putts.   
 Q.  What aspect of your game's got to be the sharpest out here?  
SCOTT PIERCY: I think ball striking.  It gives you room to hit it.  Like I said, if you hit a good shot, you're rewarded.  If you hit a bad shot, you're screwed.  But ball striking is key around here, especially if it's windy.  I mean, you've got to be in control of your trajectory, your flight.  And I can get at the par-5s a little bit, I can reach, I can probably reach them all today.  The ones on the front, I laid up.   
So that's where I kind of made my headway is I made birdies on the par-5s and a couple others.  So if I can take care of the par-5s and make some pars on long par-4s, then we're in the game.   
 Q.  When you come in a Major, do you come in with any expectation or do you just come in blank slate and try to make it happen?  
SCOTT PIERCY: No, the game's been feeling pretty good lately, so I just take that confidence, knowing that I'm in a good spot with myself and I happen to like the golf course.  Just go from there.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
SCOTT PIERCY: Just think of it as golf.  I know it's hard to imagine, but get some rest and go do it again in the morning.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT