SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 18, 2015
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Sitting here with Scott.   Scott just told me, he goes, I eagled 18 one day and made three pars.   A little frustrating on the last hole.   You played really solid today.   It was about as high as you could shoot.   With the exception of the par save on the 17, there wasn't a whole lot happening. 
SCOTT PIERCY:   Yeah.   You know, I played real solid.   I think I hit for the most part like 15 greens today, you know, maybe being on a couple of fringes, but I had some good looks at it. 
The middle of the Back 9 was a big momentum swing and maybe tried to put a little pressure on Jimmy, but all in all I've been playing great weeks. 

Q.   Yeah.   I think of the ninth hole, because you birdie 10.   If you would have made 9 and 10 and you would have been two back and then who knows, Jimmy goes on this crazy run.   And he just kicked an extra point.   He's at 21 now. 
SCOTT PIERCY:   Yeah.   He's one of the hottest players in the world.   What he's done the last year or two years, nobody's catching him.   So he's seven ahead right now.   It's just a cake walk. 
But I feel good about where I was at.   I hit some good shots when I needed to.   The putter might have let me down a little bit.   I made some good saves when I needed to, but hopefully I can keep cleaning it up and keep striking them well. 

Q.   You need to strike them well next week because you're going to have to make a whole fistful of birdies next week.   You're going to Humana, aren't you?
SCOTT PIERCY:   Yeah.   I'll be there.   So I gotta work on the putter, getting it close enough.   Just getting some of those uphillers into the green, and hopefully I lock up second place or in the worst case tie.   But it's a good week and I look forward to the year.

Q.   Good start.   Have some more fun going down the road.   Would you say coming off there you hadn't played much in the past couple of weeks?
SCOTT PIERCY:   I hadn't played since Mayakoba.   Since r got a little down some and time cold weather and tried to keep the game sharp and sort of the wintertime, but you know, i been trying to keep it sharp at home.   I've been anxious for this year to start and get in the flow of playing and this is obviously a good week to start.

Q.   Feeling totally injury free after everything last year?
SCOTT PIERCY:   Yeah.   You know, I'm strong.   I still have to manage some reps.   It's not even a year after surgery.   So it's still kind of in the recovering process but for the most part I can do what I need to with the golf ball and hopefully I can make it six inches under a little more often. 

Q.   Take me through the time line of the injury. 
SCOTT PIERCY:   I think it happened at Byron Nelson in '12, and I played on it for about 10 months and I had surgery at the end of February for last year, was out for about six months and came back kind of in August. 

Q.   Having an injury like that and you can't play golf, what did you do?
SCOTT PIERCY:   You know what, I was beaten up pretty bad mentally from trying to play through it, so I didn't really want to see a golf club for about two and a half months and that's about the time frame before I could even start working out or doing anything.   It was nice because I needed a mental break because it was beating me up, and so and now I'm ready to go and feel good about my game.   One of the things was my goal was to come back better, not to come back to where I was and before I got hurt I was in a pretty good spot and looking to go right past that one. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT