SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 18, 2014
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about how big this week has been for you in terms of getting back to where you want your game to be and everything golf‑wise.   
SCOTT PIERCY:   You know, it's been good.   Obviously being at home in my own bed is a nice thing, especially when you're playing on TOUR.   The biggest thing is getting back into tournament golf for me.   I'm healthy again.   I feel good.   I've been in the gym a lot, gotten strong, recovered, and now it's time to get back playing.   
Nothing really can duplicate tournament golf.   As well as I've played the last three days and solid, I definitely left some out there, especially being my home course.   I know where to hit this golf course at, and I got it on probably the holes that I shouldn't.   I'm happy with where I'm at, but I know there's‑‑ hopefully tomorrow will be my real low one.  
   
 Q.   You hit an awful lot of good shots this week.   I know you left a few out there.   You weren't happy with the bogey there at 15 today, but you've had a lot of good shots this week, too.   Is that giving you a big confidence boost, especially from a physical standpoint, knowing that you can make shots?  
SCOTT PIERCY:   I mean, I'm healthy.   Bottom line, I'm healthy.   I can hit whatever shot you want me to hit, it's just a matter of doing it under the gun.   It's just refining those playing decisions, the shots while I'm playing, and just getting into the flow of it.   I've done a good job of managing myself this week being at home, and I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   In some ways you've already won because you may not even have to win this thing to get everything taken care of from the exemption standpoint.   It could really be a big week for you in terms of moving forward even if you can't hold the trophy tomorrow.   
SCOTT PIERCY:   Obviously I want to win, so that's the goal.   If I don't win and it takes care of my whole medical, then great.   If it doesn't, I've still got four more tournaments this year, and we'll go get it during that.  
   
 Q.   Three 67s, nothing wrong with that, that's pretty good?  
SCOTT PIERCY:   Consistent.   
   
 Q.   How were your rounds different?   You had three identical scores but how were they different?  
SCOTT PIERCY:   They were all really similar, actually.   You know, I scored on the holes I shouldn't, and I didn't score on the holes that I should.   They were all a little bit off.   I'm not going to say sloppy, but I'd make a 75‑footer on 10.   I chipped in twice today.   Just a yard or two here or there, I might be putting for birdie but I'm chipping.   So I'm kind of having to recover, just a little bit off, but you hear it all the time, I'm close.   I usually have one 63, 64 during this tournament.   It's a perfect time for it tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT