PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2013
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How do you feel about the (inaudible)?
SCOTT PIERCY:   I'm really pleased with it.   It's funny, I Tweeted last night I'm thinking 62.   With the birdie putt on 14 to get to 7, I was right on pace.   Hit a bad putt there, then came back on 16 and made a birdie. 
Those last two holes were tough.   To shoot 5‑under on Sunday in a major is pretty good score. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
SCOTT PIERCY:   You know what, right after I bogeyed the second hole and 3‑putted it.   I just told myself to keep trying to make birdies.   I was hitting good shots early on and I did.   I made a few puts a propelled me.   Kind of riding the momentum, just kept hitting some more good shots.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
SCOTT PIERCY:   You know, it's been feeling better than the score has been, so kind of the score matched how it's been feeling a little bit.   It's nice. 
I talked to my wife this morning on the phone walking to the first tee and I said my swing is feeling good, the putter is feeling good, hopefully it translates to a score.   It did, so I'm happy about that.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
SCOTT PIERCY:   You know what, that's what you got to do to try to get there.   If you hit good shots on this golf course, it will reward you.   If you hit bad ones, you are going to make bogeys.   Usually when you start going well, hit good shots, making birdies, you can start to ride the momentum.   You have got to think it before you can believe it.   Sometimes it's unrealistic to think 62.   If I thought 65 today, maybe I only shoot 69.   65 does a lot of good for me.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
SCOTT PIERCY:   Yeah, you know, obviously I made bogey on 15 there, which just a little pumped up with the 6‑iron, flew the green.   I flagged it right over the top of it.   That's a good hole, you have got to hit a nice solid iron shot.   Drive it on 16, if you hit a good drive on 16 you have a birdie chance.
17 and 18, I had driver 3‑iron into 17 and I had‑‑ you know, I've chipped it out on 18 every day.   Just can't seem to find that fairway.   Those holes play hard.   With the lead coming down Sunday, it's some nerves, got to hit some good shots.

Q.   What did you think of the fan choice for the pin on 15? 
SCOTT PIERCY:   I thought it was a good pin.   I really did.   I think it was fair and you just got to hit a good shot.

Q.   Overall, what do you take from this week? 
SCOTT PIERCY:   It was a confidence builder for me because you guys know I have been playing a little bit hurt.   Starting to feel better. 
This is the first week in twomonths I was able to practice and kind of work on my swing and my game.   You know, it kind of showed.   Having no pain and being able to practice make as big difference.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT