PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2013
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell us a little bit about your round.   The conditions were pretty tough, I'm sure, for a while but you had three straight birdies there on the front?
SCOTT PIERCY:   Yeah, I wasn't‑‑ it was just a light rain at the beginning.   It was manageable. 
And I 3‑putted my first hole, never a good start.   Leaves a bad taste in your mouth, but came back strong, made those three birdies 4, 5, 6.   Then the rain started coming down pretty good. 
7 is a tough hole; you know, I bogeyed that. 
I missed a short one on 8 for bird, and then 9 is a really tough hole, especially playing in the wind.   Getting the rough really wet, so made bogey there. 
It rained hard there for a good eight or nine holes right through the middle of our round.   Really didn't stop until 17 tee.   I was glad I made those three birdies, because from then I was just trying to hang on.   Those nine holes were‑‑ you know, it's one of those times where your equipment is starting to get wet.   It's raining so hard, you know, the balls, you know, your club face is getting wet when you are teeing it up and the ball is getting wet so the ball is squirting on you.   You start getting mud balls a little bit.   Then the wind started picking up and swirling a little bit.   It wasn't playing easy.   The greens are obviously soft now, so if you are in the fairways and have mud on your ball, you are probably doing okay.   It got pretty tough there for a while. 
I'm pretty happy with my round.   I wasn't very clean, kind of ugly, but it was ‑‑ overall to be 2‑under going into the weekend, I think I'm in a good spot.

Q.   Do you have a specific strategy when the weather get likes like?
SCOTT PIERCY:   You try to make pars.   Pars can never hurt you.   There's probably a handful of guys under par today and they are going to pass the field.   So I was trying to make pars, and if I can sneak a birdie in, you know, great.   It was tough. 
Even hitting a wedge shot on 14 from 115yards is a tough shot.   You're dealing with a lot of spin and just everything changes a little bit.   Overall, I'm happy with the round and excited for tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT