WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 4, 2012
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Three 68s.   
SCOTT PIERCY:   Yeah, it was a good week.   I found something last week in Malaysia and it carried over into this week and looks like it's going to be a good finish.   
   
 Q.   Is that what really gave you the confidence, the 62 last week?  
SCOTT PIERCY:   You know, it started Friday afternoon of last week on the back nine.   I played well from there, and just brought it all the way here and made a few putts coming down the stretch which were big.   I'm just really excited to be here.  
   
 Q.   So 65 today, maybe could have been even better, pars on 7 and 9.   
SCOTT PIERCY:   Yeah, shoulda, woulda, coulda.   I think I had five or six 3‑putts on the week.   That kind of stings a little bit.   
I'm happy with where I'm at.   I came to work on my World Ranking, get World Ranking points, and I think I did a good job of that.   So I'm excited.  
   
 Q.   And you'll take a lot of confidence from this, aren't you; what's the plan now for the rest of the year?  
SCOTT PIERCY:   Yeah, I'm shutting it down the rest of the year.   I figured I could play hard for two weeks and then I've got some time off till January.   Looking forward to it.   I feel good with my game, and it's nice to go finish the year off this way.   
   
 Q.   Elaborate on the World Ranking, because playing in a field of this kind of calibre, it really is good to finish this high, isn't it?   
SCOTT PIERCY:   My goal this year was to get into the Top‑50 in the WORLD.   Starting the week, I was 44th in the world, and obviously I can only really go up from there finishing where I did.   That Top‑50 number in the world is kind of a golden number, and you know, I'm just really glad that my game is coming around and kind of where I think it should be.   
   
 Q.   I take it on the long trip home, you can put those club as way and think, this has been a good year with a victory and moving up.   
SCOTT PIERCY:   Yeah, it has.   Obviously you want to win and I did.   I did one time in Canada.   But I think even more importantly than, that I think with this finish, I had almost 20 Top‑25s, like close to ten Top‑10s, so consistency was huge for me.   That's what allows me to keep moving up.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT