CIMB CLASSIC
October 28, 2012
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You got better every day out here.   Was that just getting used to the course?   What was the biggest difference, every day playing better?  
SCOTT PIERCY:   You know, I hit the ball terrible on Thursday, probably a little bit of jet lag.   Got a few unlucky breaks on Thursday, which I didn't swing it well at all on Thursday, and basically tried to figure out the whole day what was going on.   I figured something out and had to‑‑ early on Friday I had good thoughts going, but I had a few‑‑ it was kind of like trusting it, trusting the move.   
As the week went on, I got better and got more confident in it, and I started to make a couple little putts here and there.   
Yesterday I shot 7‑under, and it was‑‑ today it could have been four or five better without even thinking about it really, and the same thing with yesterday.   
A little bit getting comfortable with the course, swinging it better, ball going where I'm looking a little bit.   I think I hit all 18 greens today.   It was just a progress.   I've never been overseas before and trying to deal with how my body feels, and I feel like it's afternoon; it's 5:00 in the morning.   
I think it's a combination of jet lag, swinging bad, found a swing thought, got some rest, trusted the swing thought, and from there it was go.   
   
 Q.   Kind of takes a few days to feel like a person once you get over here.   Did you find yourself waking up at 2:00 in the morning some days or did you sleep okay?  
SCOTT PIERCY:   I've been pretty good.   It's just I'll wake up in the morning and I'll be up for a couple hours, and it'll be 8:00 in the morning but I feel like it's 5:00, so I feel like I should be tired.   But as far as rest, I've been going to bed at like 5:00 at night.   
It's a whole new experience for me.   I'm glad I'm here, and I look forward to coming back.   
   
 Q.   Good testament, though, to working hard and not just mailing it in after 75 to start.   You got yourself back into it today; that has to feel pretty good.   
SCOTT PIERCY:   Yeah, I obviously probably won't win the golf tournament, but you never want to come over here and finish last.   Not anywhere do you want to do that.  
I know it's been close, and just trying to figure it out.   I finally got a feel that matches what should be real, and it showed the last two and a half days.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT