RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 28, 2012
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SCOTT PIERCY:   Hit a couple in the hazard, and just I was never in the fairway.   
You know, to pull out a 67, 3‑under par not playing well is what you need to do to contend and possibly win.   So I'm happy with where I am.   Garrigus played beautiful today, as well as McGirt.   And for me to not play where I felt very good and only be two strokes back, I'm happy with it.  
   
 Q.   Sometimes, as you said, the key to a victory are the par‑saving putts or getting through your bad round, which most people are going to have in a four‑round tournament and not getting burned by it and you've done that.   Now, what are you going to do between now and tomorrow morning to get things on the right turn?  
SCOTT PIERCY:   You know, about the 15th hole I hit two good shots and made birdie.   And I was talking with my caddie walking up fairway after 14, and I'm like ‑‑ I told him what I thought was wrong, and he agreed.   And I hit a good shot on 15 with the tee shot, good second shot there and didn't really hit a bad one coming in.   So I'm going to hit a few balls and work on my putting for about 20 minutes and get out of here.  
   
 Q.   Well, good luck with tomorrow.   We'll let you get out of here.   Thank you for your time.   Go on the range and figure things out.   
SCOTT PIERCY:   Thanks.   For the first two days I was pretty fortunate not to be in the rough and in any trouble.   That's why I called it some boring golf.   But today was a little more exciting.   I drove it in a hazard.   I just never seemed to be in the fairway.   
You know, I played smart.   I got it up‑and‑down where I needed to.   I laid up when I needed to.   Leaned on my short game a little bit today, and when I hit some good shots I was able to capitalize a little bit.  
   
 Q.   But considering you have to feel great.   Within striking distance, in contention on a Sunday here on the PGA TOUR?  
SCOTT PIERCY:   Yeah, definitely.   Today was ‑‑ I would call it my bad round as far as how I felt and how I struck the ball.   And to only be a couple back to a couple guys that played beautifully, I'm encouraged by that.  
   
 Q.   Scott Piercy with a chance on Sunday at the RBC Canadian Open.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT