RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2012
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Welcome Scott Piercy to the interview room here at the RBC Canadian Open once again.   You followed up your 62 yesterday with what seems like another solid round.   Why don't you give us your thoughts on it?   
SCOTT PIERCY:   Yeah, it's kind of a boring 67 to be honest.   There was not a lot of excitement like yesterday.   Made a putt or two for birdie, made a couple of nice par saves.   Really not in a whole lot of trouble most of the day and solid overall.  
   
 Q.   We hear this all the time about a guy who goes out and either ties the course record or shoots the course record, and you always hear that crazy saying about there is only one place to go for something like that and that is up.   I understand that.   I think you probably do too.   But what is the goal after you do something like that?   What is the mindset when you get to the first tee the next day and you guys are out there?   You're still trying to figure out how to go low, right, but it's a leveling off?   
SCOTT PIERCY:   I think it's expectations.   You shoot 62 and think, oh, I've got it.   You expect to shoot another 62 which is ‑‑ to shoot 62, you've got to have things going for you.   You've got to be making the putts.   You've got to get the right bounces.   I think you've got to be realistic with your expectations.   
When I shot 62, my expectation was to hit fairways and greens, and it just happened.   Today knowing that it's generally tough to follow up a course record, I just wanted to hit a bunch of greens, a bunch of fairways, and let it happen again.   If I hit a good shot and hit 2 or 3‑under, then that's great.   
A lot of times you end up being unhappy with pars after you shoot a 62 because you're so used to making birdie or eagles, that you that's what you expect.   And pars are still good, if that makes sense.  
   
 Q.   That's a great point.   Pars are still good.   So I'm assuming that those expectations when you get out there, you have to sort of watch yourself, right?   You don't want to be‑‑ you don't want to get yourself into that situation where you're disappointed by pars, correct?   
SCOTT PIERCY:   Right.   If your expectations are to hit the fairway and just sit on the green, and if you make a putt, great, but if you two‑putt, that's fine too.   But if you're always thinking I have to make a birdie because I shot 62 yesterday, then your expectations will be a little jaded.  
   
 Q.   One thing that looked to me and I was out on the back nine, not the front, but it looked to me like pin placement today was a little tougher, and they were really looking at your number yesterday and I think there was a correction, shall we say.   I'm just wondering what you think?   
SCOTT PIERCY:   There were a few pins.   Number 10 has got to be illegal, honestly.   They usually have a parameter of where they put pins, but that pin's got to be off.   You know, there are not a lot of flat putts on the green, period.   They all play back to front and the slope more than others.   So there were a few there for sure.  
   
 Q.   When you get into a course like this and you get to a traditional, old style, design as this one is, does it get your juices flowing a little bit more, or are you just the type of guy that it's golf, there is the green, there is the fairway, this is my number, go get it?   
SCOTT PIERCY:   I will tell you this golf course for me takes the juices out of it for me, because it's not an exciting golf course where you generally go hit driver.   It's a lot of position off the tee, and it's a lot of position into the green.   You want to be just to that first part of the green in the middle of the green, and putting into the corners.   
For me, I like to be aggressive and shoot at things, but that's really boring for me.   So I would say it's the opposite, in my mind, anyway, you know, like the Phoenix Open.   You're going out for birdies and everybody knows it.   Here it's more playing for pars and hoping that the birdies fall.   Does that make sense?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
SCOTT PIERCY:   So because the greens are so severe in spots, you want to be below the hole, putting up into them.   So if you're below the hole, generally‑‑ ‑ anything below the hole, you're not going to mess up the hole.   Even if you're short of the green you're usually putting up to the hole.   So it's a lot of position off the tee to hit the fairways, so you have a chance to be as aggressive as you can be.   Then you still got to play position to the green, pins back.   You have to play short, stuff like that.  
   
 Q.   So you'd equate the RBC Canadian Open more with a U.S. Open than you certainly would a Phoenix Open?   
SCOTT PIERCY:   Yeah, this week.   You could hit driver all the way around this place and bring in bogeys and double bogeys and stuff like that.   But if you go no bogeys and two or three birdies every day, then you're in a good spot.  
   
 Q.   I was more referring to a fun factor for Scott Piercy.   Like you're going to have more fun at Phoenix than you are, say, at a U.S. Open, right?  
SCOTT PIERCY:   If I win, I'll have a lot of fun.   You know, this golf is boring golf for me.   I'm not going for it.   I'm not trying to put my foot on the accelerator.   I'm kind of touch and go.   Where at the end of the week, hopefully the next two days go well, and, hey, I finished top 10, I won.   I finished sixth.   It's fun at the end of the week when you put it together.   
Then you look back and it's like fun.   But while you're in the process of doing it, I call it boring golf.   If that makes sense.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT