RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2012
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DOUG MILNE:   Like to welcome Scott Piercy to the interview room at the RBC Canadian Open.   Scott, a course record 63 must feel pretty good.   Could you maybe give us some keys to your round out there? 
SCOTT PIERCY:   62.
DOUG MILNE:   62.   I'm sorry.
SCOTT PIERCY:   Got half of it right.   Hit a lot of fairways and a lot of greens today.   I was rolling the ball well, and obviously you gotta make some putts, too.   I hit it solid out there.   I think I only missed a couple greens, and ball striking round here with the rough being so penal is a must to shoot well.

Q.   Condition wise, there was a lot of wind out there.   Were the greens soft or how was that?
SCOTT PIERCY:   You know, at times the wind would pick up.   The greens were receptive.   I wouldn't say overly soft or hard.   You know, just the wind would kind of come up, come down.   If you were down in the valley hitting up, you would have to judge with the wind to hit it late and stuff like that.
DOUG MILNE:   Questions? 

Q.   Scott, in a round like today you get a feeling that you've got it all going.   Did you have that going into the first hole after you made your first putt or did it slowly build during the round?
SCOTT PIERCY:   You know, in all honesty I didn't feel like I had a very good feel for the golf course teeing up on the first hole today.   I flew in late on Tuesday, played the Pro Am so I'm kind of jet lagged playing, and kind of scraped through yesterday. 
I've been playing well, though, so I know that once I get it going that it's pretty good.   But like I said, if you hit the fairways, hit a lot of greens, take your time.   I kind of eased into the round, made birdie, made a bogey and then kind of started hitting greens.   The putt went in.   The putt on 17 was big.   I hit two great shots into that and made ‑‑ I mean the putt was ‑‑ you probably can't make it twice, but that was a putt, a swing putt. 
And then on 18 I hit a good hybrid off the tee, and the wind was howling at the time.   I hit like a stinger hybrid.   The wind got out and just took the ball right in the bunker and I hit it to about eight feet, made par.   Just lipped out.   But I hit those two holes kind of set the tone to be able to do something on the Front 9.

Q.   Could you just speak a little bit to the course setup today?   I mean I was out there on a few holes on the front, all of the back.   I've seen some pins that are good.   There are some good pins out there in the set up, and it looks like it's kind of difficult in some spots. 
SCOTT PIERCY:   It definitely is.   Like I said, I hit it in the rough on one hole and I advanced to 20 yards.   Yeah, on ‑‑ I don't know, 14.   That's a long par ‑‑ maybe 13.   I had it just short right of that bunker and I almost hit it in the bunker.   And I made bogey.   It settled to the bottom.   It's long and settled down.   So the rough is really penal. 
As far as the pins go, there was a couple that seemed a little dicey.   No. 2, that pin was kind of like a mound.   I hit it just long left of it.   I'm like, I want to keep it on the green.   There's a couple that look pretty crazy.

Q.   When you guys get greens like this to putt on, you know, after it rains out here Sunday night and that sort of thing where maybe at one point a week ago maybe being in more of a defensive mode, now does it feel like it's all offense out there unless you're above the hole?
SCOTT PIERCY:   You know, it's offensive if you're in the fairway right now definitely.   The golf course doesn't play very long.   But if you're not in the fairway, you know, it's going to fight you a little bit.   So the greens are receptive.   You can spin back wedges.   You can play in with a 9‑iron, you can pull back a few tees. 
As far as being real tough, (inaudible) fairway.   I think I missed two greens.   So I didn't see a lot of it today, which is good. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
SCOTT PIERCY:   The greens look low, but they got more speed on them than they look.   Visually they don't match.   Like they look long, but they play fast where some greens look vice versa.   Or speeds.   I'm surprised that they were rolling as fast as they were with the rain.

Q.   Does that make for some guesswork out there a little?
SCOTT PIERCY:   I think once you get the speed down I think it's fine, but just getting to ‑‑ it's kind of a mental thing.   It looks like it's slower, but it's not. 

Q.   Talk about your year so far this year.   Looking at some of the numbers and where you're at, I think you'd probably be happy in a couple spots.   Be a couple spots you'd probably be looking to improve on; right?
SCOTT PIERCY:   Yeah.   Overall it's been really solid.   You know, definitely a couple weeks ago I needed to work on my wedge game, and kind of figured that out and produced at John Deere.   I hit some good wedge shots today. 
The previous four or five ‑‑ probably couple months before that my wedges really hurt me.   You know, at San Antonio I made a quad on the last hole.   I went from fourth place to 18th.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
SCOTT PIERCY:   Just distance control.   I couldn't hit a wedge close to the hole.   But the game's in a good spot.   I feel like I'm in a position where if I keep doing what I'm doing, you know, I can win.   You know, I just need a few good breaks here, a few good breaks there.   But overall, Top 10, Top‑25 so far.   It feels pretty solid. 

Q.   How would you classify your temperament when you're on the golf course?   What kind of a guy are you?   You got a temperament?
SCOTT PIERCY:   Yeah.   I get really mad generally.   And that's something that I have to very much control.   And it's a lot easier to control when you're playing well.   But it's also something if you control it and stay more calm when you're playing bad, you can get back into playing well sooner.   It's something that I constantly have to work on.   I'm kind of a perfectionist in an imperfect game.   And when you practice as hard as you do and work as hard as you do, my expectations sometimes are a little ‑‑ my caddie always tells me keep your expectations low, you know, so you don't get as mad.   Like if I hit it to 20 feet, okay, whatever.   It's not great, but it's not five feet like I want.   So it's just a constant battle within me that I always have to kind of keep it nice and chilled. 

Q.   You don't appear that way.   You appear to be cool. 
SCOTT PIERCY:   Golf is the only time I get really upset.   Any other time I'm really chilled, and I think that's just because I expect so much of myself. 
I think I'm my biggest fan, I'm my biggest critic.   I push myself to be better than probably most people think I am.   So you know, if I don't get there, that's probably why I'm hard on myself.

Q.   Would you say you're a practicer?   Do you like practice?   Is that something you enjoy doing?
SCOTT PIERCY:   When I need to.   I like to play.   I like to practice on the golf course.   I don't like to stand on the range and beat balls.   If I need to stand on the putting green and hit 100 four‑footers in a row, I'll do it.   But generally I practice in a playing atmosphere. 
DOUG MILNE:   All right.   Scott, thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT