JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 15, 2012
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. The guys up front all said, Yeah, somebody could get something going, and you did just that. 
SCOTT PIERCY:   Yeah, you know, you get it going on Sunday, and if you're out in front and able to post a little bit, they have to watch you.   They know they got to make birdies.
I was lucky I hit it close on 1; made a nice solid two‑putt on 2.   I really had a lot of chances today.   Just snuck around the corners.   I'm pleased with where I finished. 
It's golf.   You always seem to leave a handful out there.

Q.   When that big putt dropped at 9, the 30‑footer, did you feel like, Okay, now I'm in it? 
SCOTT PIERCY:   It was a chip‑in.   When I chipped it in there, that's a huge momentum swing because I'm just looking to make par.   I didn't have a real great lie.
And knowing that the golf tournament starts on Sunday on the back nine, to make a birdie going right into it knowing there is a par‑5 coming and that I've played the back nine well all week, I was kind of licking my chops.

Q.   You gave yourself a ton of chances on the backside, too. 
SCOTT PIERCY:   Yeah, this week I hit a lot of greens.   Felt good with the swing; felt good with pretty much everything.   When you hit a lot of greens you feel like you don't make a lot of putts just because you have so many chances.
But it's overall I'm really happy. 

Q.   17 is probably what did you in, didn't it?
SCOTT PIERCY:   17, you got to fire that flag.   I missed it just‑‑ ball was a little below my feet.   Ball scored it a little bit.   I had the wind off to the left a little too, so I actually aimed about 20 feet left. 
Even before that I hit it close a few times and missed, some pretty makable putts throughout the day.   So you can't put it down on 17. 
Obviously 17 you feel like you should make birdie there most of the time, but coming down the stretch on Sunday things are a little different. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
SCOTT PIERCY:   Yeah, you know, I started off ‑‑ any time you shoot 4‑under on the front nine on Sunday, they got to look at it a little bit. 
So my goal was just hit a lot of greens, give myself a lot of chances, and hopefully I roll a few in.

Q.   Correct me if I'm wrong, but if it holds up and Zach does win or if it's not you, you're not going to the British should you get the exemption?   Would you be ready to go? 
SCOTT PIERCY:   You know, I told my caddie at the beginning of the week I wasn't really looking forward to going to the Open.   I'm a little tired.   So in the same sense I'll probably end up qualifying because I'm not looking forward to it.
I don't know if I would fly home first or take the charter over.   If I get in, I'll go.

Q.   Do you have your passport with you?
SCOTT PIERCY:   Last time I checked I did.   Hopefully it's still there. 

Q.   What do you do between now and then to relax the nerves?   Do you cool off?
SCOTT PIERCY:   I'm not going to cool off.   Feel like I just jumped out of a pool.   Pretty hot and wet out here.   It takes a toll.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT