JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2012
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You hit 15 greens out there today.   
SCOTT PIERCY:   Yeah, I mean, more looks you have usually the lower the score.   
Of course I had a bunch of wedges today and shorter irons, so I was able to kind of go at a few flags.  
   
 Q.   You know why you had a bunch of wedges in?   Because you average almost 300 yards per drive.   In fact, on 18 you hit it 240 yards.   
SCOTT PIERCY:   Is that all?   (Laughter.)   You know, I've been striking it pretty well.   You know, the only thing that's been lacking a little bit was a little bit of wedge play.   I got with some of the guys from Titleist this week and talked about it and we changed all the camber and bounces on my wedges.   
It's made a huge difference.   I was having trouble shooting the ball through greens, not being able to hit it soft enough.   Took all the camber off the club and made it pretty flat.   
It's just made me able to hit the shots that I see and the distances I want.  
   
 Q.   Sometimes a player makes a equipment adjustment and it takes them a little while to get used to it.   Obviously that's not the case.   
SCOTT PIERCY:   I put in some pretty good time on Monday and Tuesday with 'em.   I was out here all day Monday when I really didn't need to be.   Hit the ball great, you know, pretty well last week.  
It's been something that's been holding me back.   I'm making bogeys with wedges instead of having birdie chances, and I think last week it cost me five or six strokes.   I missed the playoff by five or six strokes.  
So in order foe me to win and be where I want to be, I need to make birdies with wedges and know where they're going.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the finish of your round there.   Four birdies on the back half there.   
SCOTT PIERCY:   Yeah, you know, all day I hit it well.   15 greens, I gave myself a lot chances.   When I missed on the, I was just on the first cut of the fringe, so I so never put myself in a whole lot of damage.  
Made a couple putts.   You know, I was 10, 15 feet most of the day.   Give us enough of those and we'll make a couple.  
   
 Q.   How are you feeling about the putter at this point?  
SCOTT PIERCY:   Yeah, it's solid.   Nice to see the ball go in the hole.   Made a real long one for par on 3 to kind of keep my round going, and then played solid from there really, not missing a whole lot.  
   
 Q.   One shot off the lead at this point.   Obviously you can't win the tournament on the first day, but you can put yourself in contention.  
SCOTT PIERCY:   Yeah, this year I've had a lot of good finishes that I was behind the eight ball, so to say, after the first day.   So it's nice to kind of get out ahead of it and, you know, just to get a good round under your belt first.   
Hopefully get the momentum started early and keep it going.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT