HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2011
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Scott, well played, especially on the front 9 where you got that run going. Take me through that.   
 SCOTT PIERCY: I got lucky, had a couple of good drives that set me up and I was able to -- a couple of 8-footers, and the guys I was with were playing well, too.   
  
  Q. It's all about looks and on the backside even though you missed a couple of makable birdie putts you dropped a couple, too.   
 SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, I hit it well today. I had pretty good birdie chances all day, a couple of three-putts that the wind got me and scrambled my ball and pulled it from the fairways and stuff, but overall I hit the ball pretty well and I feel pretty good.   
  
  Q. Greens have recovered quite a bit, haven't they?   
 SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, and they were a lot faster today. Compared to yesterday, they were 2 feet faster today; I was surprised how smooth they were.   
  
  Q. Was today the day to kinda get this golf course when the wind wasn't blowin' too hard?   
 SCOTT PIERCY: I don't know, the wind is swirling out there. It's supposed to be out of north, northwest all day and seemed like it was into the wind every hole, which is weird. You had to be lucky, which I was, and it's good to be lucky.   
  
  Q. It's good to be good, too. You hit 15 greens. Congratulations on a good opening round.   
 SCOTT PIERCY: Thank you.   
  
  Q. Were you surprised the scores weren't lower today?   
 SCOTT PIERCY: Um, you know, I don't know. I think since it's a par 70, I don't know if it's a mental block, I shot 6-under, too, so -- actually it's funny, I got up on the third hole and I just bombed the driver down there, hit 4-iron on the back of the green thinking I had an eagle putt and on the fifth hole I made birdie on 4 or something and I told my caddy, "Will you tell the scorer that he's wrong?" And he was like, "What are you talking about?" And I'm like, "I'm 2-under, right?"   
 I said, "I birdied No. 3" and he goes "That's a par 4." (Laughter). I mean, that's probably one of the reasons. But, you know, like I said, I hit it pretty close all day, except for the couple of times I 3-putted. And when I missed, I got up and down. You know, I think it's kinda the 70 thing. The wind is tricky, it is. I guessed a couple of times right out of the rough.   
 If you don't -- like 18 I thought I flagged it and knocked it over the back and thought I guessed right. I was protected a bit by the water. But you've got to be lucky guessing -- I spun one back out of the rough with a sand wedge and just, you know, missed on one hole. It's a guessing game and you've got to guess right.   
  
  Q. Good news or bad news that the wind will below from the south like it usually does the rest of the weekend?   
 SCOTT PIERCY: We all have to play it. It's funny because almost every week you play a practice round and it's out of the south and the first day of the tournament it's out of the north so you're like -- a lot of times if it switches back you go, "Oh, I know how to play the golf course if it's from here," so, you know, everybody has to play it.   
  
  Q. This is not a course that people are going to necessarily score really low on for four rounds, is it?   
 SCOTT PIERCY: I have no idea. I've only played here once.   
  
  Q. Last year 10-under won it.   
 SCOTT PIERCY: Really?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 SCOTT PIERCY: I don't know, the wind is usually up, if there is no more rain for the rest of the week it's probably going to be firm and making some pins in corners, and it's getting firm, you can start shooting at corners and same thing with the fairways. You've got to hit the ball well to score well there.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT