THE BARCLAYS
August 25, 2010
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We want to welcome Scott Piercy here to the media center at The Barclays. Scott comes in at the No. 125 spot on the FedExCup after a whirlwind week at the Wyndham Championship. Maybe talk about Sunday a little bit and the range of emotions and what it was like earning a spot on the tour.  
 SCOTT PIERCY: Sunday was a little bit of a roller coaster. Start off birdieing two out of the first four holes. And I made three bogeys in a row. Six, seven and eight. I was like this isn't going how I wanted.   
 And I had to suck it up and show a little heart and some guts and shoot 3-under on the back eight right on the numbers.   
 I'm excited to be here and ready for the playoffs.  
 THE MODERATOR: We all watched Heath Slocum and what he did from the No. 124 spot last year, if you have a good tournament, you'll find yourself right in the thick of things moving towards THE TOUR Championship.  
 SCOTT PIERCY: Definitely. For me, my game's been coming around a lot. Five, six weeks. And my ball-striking has been really good. Get a few putts rolling and I'm excited for my chances.  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.  
  
  Q. Do you know Heath at all. Do you know the story of last year, number one. Number two, did you think you had to make the birdie put on the last because you had the 2-putt?  
 SCOTT PIERCY: I know him from being out here a little bit. And he won the first week and jumped way up in the standings.   
 And as far as making the birdie putt on 18, my caddie was kind of following that and on 17 there's a leaderboard, had it projected. I was 125 after 17. And so I knew that I was -- I should be in on 18. I guess Scott McCarron could have bumped me out birdieing the last hole, maybe.   
 But aside from that, I knew I figured I was in. But I wanted to make that putt for me. And I had a good putt. And just got a little lip.  
  
  Q. How does that pressure change this week? Are you kind of just trying to let it happen now, or is getting in the top 100 to make it to next week really something that's heavily on your mind?  
 SCOTT PIERCY: You know, I definitely want to make the top 100. As far as pressure, you just have to go out and play. You can't force anything out here or else it's going to get worse. Let it happen. And hopefully it's what you want.  
  
  Q. Logistically what was it like trying to change plans and get here and all that kind of stuff?  
 SCOTT PIERCY: Kind of a whirlwind, really. I had no plans, really. I got a flight to Greensboro and nothing beyond that. So Sunday night I was at dinner with my computer on the table. Booking flights, getting hotels, calling for courtesy cars. And I got in Monday 3:00, 4:00 and just the emotion of the week really kind of took its toll. Even yesterday I was a little mentally -- not mentally but more emotionally exhausted.  
  
  Q. Did you get to watch Scott McCarron's putt on TV or did you go out by the green or anything like that?  
 SCOTT PIERCY: No, I stayed in the scoring tent because they had a TV in there, and I didn't realize, like I said I didn't know what McCarron had to do or where he was. But once I found out if he made the birdie putt he could possibly knock me out I stayed and kind of watched. So once he missed the putt there for birdie, then I left the scorers tent.  
  
  Q. Obviously you're the beneficiary of 125 being the number. But do you think 125 is -- people should be in something called playoffs?  
 SCOTT PIERCY: You know, I just kind of follow the rules, really. Obviously I am the beneficiary, which I'm very happy to be.   
 And you know, I don't know. They make the rules and I just follow them, I guess. That's as good as I can do.  
  
  Q. Have you played the course, Scott?  
 SCOTT PIERCY: I played yesterday.  
  
  Q. Can you tell me your strategy, how you approach short par 3, 15, about 155 yards and the long 595, 17 hole?  
 SCOTT PIERCY: I hit driver on one. About 8-iron on the other. It's that old adage, hit the fairway, hit the green. I would like to have gotten to play it one more time just to be a little more familiar with it. But, you know, lately I've been hitting it well, so driving it in the fairway has been a little better. Hitting a lot more greens.   
 So for me kind of my strategy is to hit a lot of greens. If I'm hitting a lot of greens I'm taking bogeys out of play. So even if I've got to go middle of the green and take the pin out of play, then it takes bogey out of play for me and gives me birdie opportunities.  
  
  Q. How would you sum up your year to this point?  
 SCOTT PIERCY: I've been kind of looking at it as like a two-part year. The first part until about six weeks ago, and then the last six weeks for the rest of the year I changed coaches, I changed caddies. I got a new Titleist driver, new Titleist ball that I really like.   
 And my ball-striking has been great. And it's been a tale of two years. So I'm really excited that I'm actually getting to play. Hopefully I can play two or three or four, all the playoff events and keep this little run kind of going.  
  
  Q. Do you know what you have to accomplish here this week in order to advance?  
 SCOTT PIERCY: I haven't heard, no. Last week it was a top 10 or tie for six or something like which I ended up tying for eighth. This week I don't have any idea, really. Do you know?   
 THE MODERATOR: We'll find out. Start by making the cut.  
 SCOTT PIERCY: Obviously making the cut is probably first step.  
  
  Q. Do you follow this stuff all year? Did you know where you were every week of the year as the top 125?  
 SCOTT PIERCY: You know, I don't follow it like where I'm looking it up but we get text messages, how much money we made, how many FedEx points, where we stand on the both lists. We're always updated, and I knew I needed some work the last few weeks.  
  
  Q. I guess what I'm asking, maybe Chris knows this, is this the highest you've been this year, 125, or have you been --  
 SCOTT PIERCY: Early on I finished eighth at Phoenix, early in the year. I don't know where I was. But I was definitely higher.  
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT