THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 30, 2010
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Get some comments on the day if we can.
 SCOTT PIERCY: You know, started off quick. Birdied the first four or five holes and thought we were gonna be off and running. 
 You know, had a hiccup and little three-putt that really shouldn't have been a three-putt. Made a couple more birdies. Then it was kind of up and down day: birdie, bogey, par, birdie, bogey. 
 So finishing with a bogey at the last is not what you want.

 Q. Did the greens play different than yesterday? Are they slower?
 SCOTT PIERCY: You know, I think it's kind of green it green a little bit. Some have a little more pitch to them or they probably keep them a little slower. They were a little smoother this morning than they were in the afternoon. Being smoother is the biggest thing, so... 

 Q. Has the course changed from yesterday to today at all?
 SCOTT PIERCY: Playing in the afternoon to the morning it's gonna be softer just almost every day, you know. The wind is not blowing, so it might play a little softer here in the afternoon. Yesterday it got pretty baked out.
 So, I mean, yeah, it played different, but, you know, not words different. 

 Q. A lot folks in this gallery are watching a PGA event for the first time. What can they expect this weekend as the cut is made?
 SCOTT PIERCY: You know, I think everybody thought you were gonna have to go really low here. I think the greens protect it a little bit. 
 But I still think it'll be a pretty good shootout on the weekend.

 Q. Can you talk about the galleries in general? How have the galleries been for you?
 SCOTT PIERCY: You know, not a lot of people followed me, but I've seen a lot of people out. I was a bit surprised. It's a good thing. I heard they sold maybe 200,000 tickets this week. That's awesome.
 The more people that come out the better. Hopefully they'll get a good show.

 Q. Is it any different than any of the other events you guys go to with the people, the galleries? 
 SCOTT PIERCY: Um, I wouldn't say a lot different, but I think nobody knew coming to West Virginia -- I don't know a lot about West Virginia just being from the west coast, so I think a lot of us didn't know what to expect.
 I think it exceeded a lot of our expectations.

 Q. By bogeying the last hole, do you still feel good about you position going into the weekend?
 SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, I mean, I'll probably be somewhere around 10th is my guess at the end of the day. I was thinking birdie 17, you know, maybe birdie 18. Get 9 or 10-ish, then you're gonna be maybe 2nd, 3rd, 4th instead of 10th. 
 But, you know, there's still a lot golf left. If I keep playing like I'm playing, I think I got a good chance. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT