FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 28, 2010
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Scott Piercy, thanks for joining us after a first round 64 here at the 2010 Farmers Insurance Open. Maybe some opening comments, had a great start to your rookie year last year, and you obviously like the West Coast. Maybe some opening comments.   
 SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, I ended the year well and was excited for 2010 to start. Almost won twice late in the year, and I was kind of itching to get back out here.  
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Maybe some comments about your round today. Obviously the North Course plays slightly easier than the South Course, but nevertheless you're in the lead. Maybe some comments.   
 SCOTT PIERCY: You know, it was just one of those days where you kind of go en fuego for a little while. A lot of tap-in birdies today, I tapped it in on 1, tapped it in on 2, chipped it in on 3. I think I made a par on 4. 5, I hit it like six inches again. 7, I hit it six inches, something like that. Made about a 10-footer -- made a couple real good par saves, I think 6 -- no, 7, I made about a 15-footer for par, which was huge to keep momentum going. 8, I made about a 12-footer for birdie, and 9, I had like four feet for birdie.   
 Kind of slowed down a little bit on the back, but on the back nine it was a lot wetter than the front, and I got a couple mud balls, which out of the middle of the fairway you don't know where it's going. I had a couple good putts for par on that side and then I birdied a couple holes coming down the stretch.   
  
  Q. How much would you have played here at San Diego State, particularly on the North Course?  
 SCOTT PIERCY: You know, not as much as you'd think. You know, we probably played it two or three times a semester I would probably say. We played kind of all over the county, and we kind of -- and they kind of gave us preferred tee times since this is a county course or a city course, it was just make your tee times and come when you want. Not as much as you would think, but definitely enough to know it.  
  
  Q. North Course in particular or --  
 SCOTT PIERCY: We played them both about equal, but that was pre-changes. They're a lot different now.   
  
  Q. Talk about the start of the year, because you got off to such a great start last year, and then this year, missed two cuts.   
 SCOTT PIERCY: You know, golf can be a little misleading sometimes. Last week I shot even par for the tournament, and I played terrible the first day, and I shot 4-under the last three days. You know, I make putts that I feel like I should have made, I'd probably shoot 16- or 17-under on the last three days, probably make the cut, and I'm playing on the last day.  
 Hawai'i was a little -- not so good. But then again, first few events generally you're knocking some rust off. The weather in Vegas has been not so good over the winter, so I didn't do a lot. Having a new baby who's almost four months, I kind of promised the wife to be home and help change some diapers. So there wasn't a lot of really golf going on.  
  
  Q. What were the expectations then coming into here or what was the feeling coming into here?  
 SCOTT PIERCY: You know, I was excited to be coming. Like I said, last week, the last three days of the tournament that I played, I played really well, and then I played a pro-am on Monday in Palm Springs and I made nine birdies. But it's something that you guys don't see all the time, and that's why it's like, where did you come from? A little break here or there, a little -- makes a huge difference sometimes.   
  
  Q. What's your view on some of the guys that are playing those old Ping wedges? Do you think it's okay? It's obviously legally okay, but do you think it's in the spirit of the rules?   
 SCOTT PIERCY: That's fine. I spin the ball plenty with the wedges I'm playing. If they think they need those, then that's fine, too, I guess. They're legal, so that's fine.   
  
  Q. Did you think about 59 after shooting the 29 on the front?   
 SCOTT PIERCY: I mean, I shoot 59 every day, I just have to keep on going usually. (Laughter.)  
 You know, it enters your mind, but you've got to still -- that old cliché, one shot at a time. It would have been nice to not make a bogey, make a couple more birdies early on the back nine, and then you could have really thought about it.   
  
  Q. Can you remember a nine with that many kick-ins?  
 SCOTT PIERCY: You know, not really. The par-5s were both pretty much tap-ins. When you hit -- I mean, 1, 2, 9 -- 4, 5, 6 were all tap-ins. I mean, it was -- like every time I hit it, I just walked up and tapped it in. Those days are really nice.   
 But to answer your question, I don't remember that many for that short of a period. Maybe throughout a day you'll hit five that are inside of five feet or something, but these were like six inches.   
  
  Q. Winning that Ultimate Game tournament a couple years ago in Vegas, what did that mean? And in particular maybe financially what did it do?  
 SCOTT PIERCY: Well, what I think it did for me is I was playing hurt at the time, and as a mini-Tour player you're always trying to keep your head above water. What it did for me, I think the biggest thing was financially it let me settle down, but at the same time, I got to take a little bit. I got to rest my wrist.   
 I won in June, and I played six tournaments between June and like Louisiana Nationwide event. I played a PGA, a Nationwide, three stages of Q-school and Mayakoba and didn't really practice in the middle. I got a mental break. In those six tournaments I got all the way through Q-school, which I had never done. I had bottom-of-the-barrel status out of Q-school, so I didn't really get into Nationwide early the following year, but the biggest thing is it just gave me a mental break and kind of let the fire kind of build back up.   
 The mini-Tours, they beat you down pretty good. You've got to be pretty resilient.  
  
  Q. Considering your score you seem a little subdued. Is that because you haven't played the South yet? Do you really feel like the leader of the tournament?   
 SCOTT PIERCY: You know, days when you do this, it's like there's -- you're kind of floating on a cloud going around. The front nine was over before it even started it seemed like. I'm pretty chill anyway. But days like this, I couldn't do a bad thing on the front nine.   
 Golf you've got to stay pretty level. When you get the big up-and-down swings, for me, up and down, being mad kind of takes me out of my rhythm.   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Scott Piercy, thank you. Good luck the rest of the week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT