TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
October 3, 2009
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK WILLIAMS: Scott Piercy, thanks for joining us in the interview room. 6-under 66 today, bogey free. In fact, you've only made one bogey in the whole tournament. Obviously you've got something good happening in your game. Just talk about your round today and what you're looking forward to tomorrow.  
 SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah. Kind of a boring 66, other than a 50-footer. Just hit a lot of greens today.   
 I think I missed one green today and took care of the par-5s. And one bomb, I think somebody said it was 51 feet, something like that.  
 MARK WILLIAMS: Looks like you've only missed six greens all week, which is pretty impressive around here. I know you got the ball in the hand because the conditions are wet. That sort of thing benefits you guys. You're in your rookie year and no rookies have won this year. What would it mean to you tomorrow to pull off a victory?   
 SCOTT PIERCY: It would mean a lot. I think I can win. I feel like I should be able to win. You know, getting yourself in a situation to win, you know, I've had two Top 10s, only one of them was really probably a real good shot to win, and you know, I learned a lot from that day playing with Kenny Perry, and hopefully I can take a little bit out of there and go into tomorrow with that.   
 MARK WILLIAMS: Okay. Questions?   
  
  Q. Why do you think you're in position to win? Why do you feel like you'll be able to win? Just the way you're playing?  
 SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah. I've put myself in a position to win at least, and you know, if I was 10 back, and you know, I don't really have a shot, but being tied for the lead, and you know, I feel like my game's where it needs to be to win. I'm making a few putts, hitting it real solid, hitting lots of greens which takes bogeys out of play, and that's big for me.   
 If I can keep doing the same things, then I feel good about my game.   
 MARK WILLIAMS: Do you think you've had an advantage this week being such a long hitter and the conditions?   
 SCOTT PIERCY: I'd say definitely. I fly the ball a long ways, and you know, ball-in-hand is -- you know, you can kind of hit it wherever you want, except for -- I mean I've driven it awesome this week. I've hit it right down the middle pretty much, saving three fairways, so I've had a lot of shorter irons than a lot of the other guys might have.  
  
  Q. I'm sure you're going to say this isn't on your mind, but you're 18 holes away from a million dollars. Are you really going to say you're not thinking about it?  
 SCOTT PIERCY: Awe, I mean we know it's there. We definitely know it's there. It's a long 18 holes away.   
 You know, last group on Sunday, there's pressures that go with that, you know, learning how to deal with it, and I think the more that you put yourself there, you'll be able to deal with it.   
  
  Q. (No microphone).  
 SCOTT PIERCY: No, not -- I mean -- not that I would know of. You know, if I can hit 17 greens tomorrow, I like my chances for winning, you know.   
 I think I missed five for the whole week, and like I said earlier, if I can take bogeys out of play, I generally make a lot of birdies, being that I hit it a fairly good ways.   
 And you know, putter, I made a couple putts a little distance today, which if I can start making a couple 25-footers, one or two, and take care of the four par-5s and one or two putts on each side is like 6, 7, 8-under, you know. And I feel like my game is there to support it.   
  
  Q. You said you had learned something last time when you were in the lead from Kenny Perry. What was it that you learned during that round?  
 SCOTT PIERCY: You know, Kenny hit a lot of greens. He never really put himself in a chance to make a bogey, you know, so if he made a birdie, he was always moving forward.   
 You know, he's one of the best players in the world, and his ball striking is one of the best, obviously, in the world.   
 That's one of those things, in the middle of the year when I kind of struggled I really improved, and you know, I think it's given me that opportunity to hit lots of greens.   
 MARK WILLIAMS: Any other questions? Okay. We appreciate you coming in. Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT