BUICK OPEN
August 1, 2009
Scott Piercy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Scott, good round. Just talk us through it, tell us what turned out today. 
 SCOTT PIERCY: The hole was as big as a trash can today. (Laughs). The putts started falling bit time. I was hitting it well, I was putting well, doing lots of good things and got good results. 
 So putters, like I said, I've been rolling it well. Everything went in. They were going dead center, perfect speed. And you know, I don't know the exact numbers, but I probably made three putts outside of 30 feet, maybe more. You know, and then I had a couple that were, you know, like par-5s you'd two-putt and a couple 10-footers. 

 Q. Your start to the season was red hot, your rookie year. The last seven or eight weeks that you've played, has there been some issues? It hasn't been as great. 
 SCOTT PIERCY: The last four weeks have actually been really good. Like I said, I haven't seen any results. So four weeks prior to that were absolutely terrible. 
 Ever since Tiger's event, at&t, I started driving the ball a lot better. Ball striking has been better. Putter is starting to come around, chipping. 
 You know, the last three weeks has been make a birdie, make a bogey, make a birdie, make a bogey, and just couldn't ever get any rhythm going. And today, for whatever reason, when it's 20-mile-an-hour winds and really fast greens, I seemed to just get it together.
 I'm not surprised, because it's been showing the signs, and you know, I just hope it continues. 

 Q. You put yourself in position. Considering the conditions out here, it usually scores easy, but with the wind, you put up a great number. 
 SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah. By the time the leaders actually tee off, it's probably going to be pretty hard. And the greens are really fast today, really fast. And once it gets hard and a little bumpier, and as fast as they are, the scores might not be too low in the afternoon.
 Now, that's kind of nice about teeing off first thing. Obviously you'd want to be in the leader group, but the greens were absolutely perfect this morning. 

 Q. Before the tournament began, they said that 20-under might be the magic number. It looked like it would be lower than that after 17. Do you think 20-under is again sort of that magic number?
 SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah. I mean if the leader is playing well, that's why it's 14-under. I mean even if it's playing tough, 3-under the next two days, there's your 20. 
 You know, he's got Tiger chasing him, you know, and you never know what he's going to do. 
 So if it gets really bad, I mean I still think it'll probably get to 20. That would be my guess. So one more good day. 

 Q. You're right there. 
 SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah. 

 Q. You mentioned Tiger. With his name on the leaderboard, how does that affect things?
 SCOTT PIERCY: You know, I mean you see it every week when he's there. I've never played with him, like in that situation, so I don't know how it would affect me personally, but I mean everybody sees it every week, you know. And when he starts moving and going, just like yesterday, it's like, wow. 

 Q. Does it change where you know you have to get a few more in?
 SCOTT PIERCY: You try and stick to your game plan, you know. I think people get out of their game plan and try and press, where if they stuck with their game plan, he's going to do what he's going to do and the next guy's going to do what he's going to do and just keep playing. 

 Q. You were right on the cut line yesterday when you were in your final holes yesterday. Did you think about that at all?
 SCOTT PIERCY: Yeah, a little bit. I mean especially because I haven't been seeing results lately. I've been hitting it well, putting well. 
 And actually, I was one inside the cut line, I ended up having to make a three-and-a-half-footer for bogey. It was -- you just try to make as many birdies as you can on Thursday and Friday and do the same today. 

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 SCOTT PIERCY: You know, I'll probably be, what am I? 12? I mean I would imagine I'll probably be three or four back, I guess. If he shoots a three, 17, so I'm four back. I won't be leading or anything, you know, but you'd guess that, wouldn't you? 
 I'm going to guess probably 17's leading at the end of the day if somebody gets real hot. You know, that's a good score today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT