NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: CAPITALS vs LIGHTNING
May 22, 2018
Anton Stralman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You have been in this situation before.  What is the general feeling considering what happened last night, how well they played?
ANTON STRALMAN: I think it's a good feeling in the group.  I think there's a strong confidence in knowing how we can play if we are at our best.  Last night we didn't have our best game.  They took control of it.  They managed that game really well.  Deservedly they won that game.
Q. How have you found experience in Game 7, what does it do for you to have the experience?
ANTON STRALMAN: In what way?
Q. You tell me.  Game 7 experience, does it matter?
ANTON STRALMAN: I think Game 7 is something that everybody looks forward to, as least I do.  I take pleasure in playing a Game 7.  I think it's one of the most exciting moments in sports.  That's always what you envision when you were a kid.  You're scoring that goal that clinches it, whatever it may be.
I think you just have to embrace it, really just have fun with it.  I think what it's all about.  Usually if you have an open mindset, follow the game plan you set up, you are going to enjoy it.  You most time also have a good result.
Q. This is the third time in the last four years you have been in Game 7 of an Eastern Conference Final, does that give you any advantage?
ANTON STRALMAN: I don't know.  Maybe, I mean.  Experience, it's always a good thing.  It's nothing that I'm going to sit and lean on.  I think it's about going out and doing your job at the highest level you possibly can.  Yeah, that's really all about it.
Q. Are Game 7s played differently than the previous six games because so much matters in this one game?
ANTON STRALMAN: Well, you would think both teams will max out the performance.  If you look over this series, I know we haven't had our best for a full game yet.  If you ask them, I probably think they would say the same thing.  So that's something you assume is going to happen tomorrow night.  That's what I look forward to.
Q. On the road there's certain ways to play a simplified game.  Are there ingredients to a proper home game where you can take advantage of something a home crowd might be able to give you?
ANTON STRALMAN: I think there's an energy to be gained playing on home ice, just like it was in Washington last night.  The crowd was into it.  I think the crowd and the team fed off each other a little bit.  I think that's what you want.  That's why you have home ice.  That's what you've been fighting for the whole season, to come into these moments, have home ice, have that little bit of advantage.
Just like experience, I don't think you can lean against that, say this is going to be fine just because we're here.  I think the mindset has to be right knowing what it takes and knowing how to play the way we want to play.  That comes from an individual standpoint and then executing it.
Q. Is a fast start, an early goal some of the ingredients that can fuel you as well as the crowd?
ANTON STRALMAN: I think that's in everybody's game plan, starting any game.  There's nothing different there, I don't think.  It's like it always is.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT