AL DIVISION SERIES: YANKEES v ATHLETICS
October 3, 2000
Gil Heredia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Would you talk about your performance tonight, coming out after six innings with a lead over both the Yankees and Clemens? 
 
GIL HEREDIA:   Actually, I was just thinking about the personal goal that I had, which was to go out there and keep our team in the game and not really get out of hand.  But very proud of going out there and following the plan and staying focused and not really getting too nervous.  
 

Q.  How nervous were you in the first couple of innings, they get a couple of rallies going and two runs on the board? 
 
GIL HEREDIA:   Just as much nervous as I get before a game.  But when you're warming up before the game in the bullpen and they had these fireworks and the smoke of the fireworks coming toward your face, you can feel the excitement.  But I think the biggest key was having the tremendous crowd today with the noise that they had was something different that they really didn't have during the season.   So, you know, you've got to commend the fans for that, but it actually creates for electricity, which is a positive note.  
 

Q.  Talk about pitching out of the first inning, and what's the important thing in pitching against the Yankees, what do you try to do? 
 
GIL HEREDIA:   Well not really necessarily against the Yankees but when you go out there you try to establish yourself in the first inning and try to set a note where you're going out there with a confidence attitude and a plan.  And yeah, it was kind of weird, because I gave you up a base hit to Knoblauch and I had a bit of miscommunication out in the outfield.  And I've been through situations like that where I just really have to stay focused.  But then the second hitter, Jeter, I hit him with the first pitch, I believe, and then I was really rolling and I thought, "You know what, you had better start focusing right now.  You shouldn't be nervous right now.  You threw the first pitch already," and try to make some quality pitches, and that's what I tried to do.  And sure enough, Paul O'Neill hit into a double play, and then I made a good pitch to Bernie Williams and we were out of the inning.  
 

Q.  You guys come into this game and they have all the post-season experience, you guys have almost none.  How key is it to win Game 1 for you guys? 
 
GIL HEREDIA:   First of all, they still have all the post-season experience, and now we can say we've got at least one game under our belt.  But you're right, the first game is always important.  But there's always a next day, and I think the biggest game tomorrow, which is tomorrow, we've got to come out there with the attitude thinking that we can score some runs and play a good ballgame and go forward.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT