AL DIVISION SERIES: YANKEES v ATHLETICS
October 2, 2000
Gil Heredia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Did this season surprise you?  Your season? 
 
GIL HEREDIA:   To be honest, the momentum that we carried from 1999 really dictated what we could do in the year 2000.  And by keeping the momentum, I think we showed ourselves that we had a chance to do what we did yesterday.  And, of course, there were some ups and downs during the season, like any other season, but we kept focused, and we were successful. 
 

Q.  Art seems to think that you spent an entire career waiting for a chance and you finally got it in the last couple of years.  Do you agree with that? 
 
GIL HEREDIA:   I agree with him a little bit.  But I think the biggest thing is the adversity that I've had.  I mean, he was never with me my whole career, so he doesn't really know what I went through back in 1987  -- or actually back in 1997 and  '98.   And as far as the maturity that I established, I mean, there's really not much to say about that.  It put me where I'm at right now, and that occurred by a lot of hard work and planning. 
 

Q.  What was the adversity? 
 
GIL HEREDIA:   Knowing that I could pitch in the big leagues, knowing that I could get hitters out, and knowing that I could really do the work that I needed to do to get the desire to stay up here in the big leagues.  Earlier in my young career, I was not in the big leagues and didn't really take full advantage of where I was at that time than when I was , like, for example, with the Montreal Expos and the San Francisco Giants organizations.  
 

Q.  When you look into your locker room, what is the best quality about your team that enables you to believe that you're going to beat the Yankees? 
 
GIL HEREDIA:   The quality you see in our locker room?  It's not what you see in the locker room that's going to beat the Yankees.  It's the quality that you see that we have the fire and determination to go out there and play a hard-fought game and try to be successful, but not really the Yankees.  It was really for possibly the Rangers, the Mariners.  Basically any team that came into Oakland, we tried to have that unity and desire and closeness where we really mended together and stayed focused as far as going forward and as far as trying to get to the playoffs.  
 

Q.  When did it sink in, that, yeah, you guys did this and you're here?  Was it as soon as you got the last out last night or was it afterwards? 
 
GIL HEREDIA:   What time was it when we made the last out?  That was the time it really sunk in.  It was really very interesting because there was several players around the outside of the dugout, and it was funny, because I can recall Kevin Appier and Omar Olivares showing me their hands, that they are sweaty and nervous, and I had the sweaty palms, too, like I do right now.  When the last out was made, that's when we really knew that we've  -- I think the first thing that came into everybody's mind was all the hard work that we did as far as trying to get where we're at right at that certain point in time. 
 

Q.  Are you a better pitcher than you've ever been in your life?
 
GIL HEREDIA:   Absolutely. 
 

Q.  In what way?
 
GIL HEREDIA:   I am more educated as far as the game goes.  I am a lot older, and I get better with age, of course.  I think the true answer to that is not only am I a better pitcher, but I'm a better person as far as the ethics, that you have to do it to get better.  That doesn't necessarily mean that I'm going to be successful out on the baseball field as far as numbers-wise and ERA's and whatever, but I am definitely a better person as far as going out and trying to better myself.  
 

Q.  Can you say what that means?  You say you're definitely a better person as far as going out and doing what it takes.  What does that mean? 
 
GIL HEREDIA:   That means back when I was younger in my Major League career, I didn't really have the  -- it's not the fire, but I did not have the, I guess, the direction or avenues that some of my teammates.  Some of my coaching staff directed me in the last couple years, as far as taking care of yourself, getting stronger by lifting weights, watching videotapes.  As far as the team you're going to be pitching against, and getting educated that way.  That's what I mean about being a better person as far as going out there and being prepared.  
 

Q.  Can you talk about what it means for you to start Game 1 of the Division Series going up against Clemens? 
 
GIL HEREDIA:   It's an honor.  It's an honor to be able to be the starting pitcher for the Game 1 Division Series of the playoffs this year.  But obviously, it's my first time.  So as far as the excitement, it's always going to be there.  It's really unexplanatory.  If a smile gives you a thousand words, hopefully that's what it does.  
 

Q.  What about facing Clemens? 
 
GIL HEREDIA:   Facing Clemens in the playoffs, it's a great honor, too.  But it's not really the only time that I've faced Clemens.  I did face Clemens on the Opening Day in 1999, and, of course, that was an experience of itself, pitching against a guy with that type of name.  I mean, he's awesome.  I actually have a baseball card in my locker that actually gives me that fire and desire to be  -- you know, to look up to somebody like that.  
 

Q.  How long have you had that in there?
 
GIL HEREDIA:   I've had that since I've been there in Oakland, and you guys ought to know.  
 

Q.  Has it hit you yet that  -- I know you realize that you guys won the division.  But has it hit you that tomorrow you are pitching in Game 1 against the New York Yankees in the playoffs, what it actually means?
 
GIL HEREDIA:   Not really.  I'm sure it's going to hit me tomorrow, though.  So if I throw that first pitch against the screen, I'm going to think of you.  (Laughter.)  No, it really hasn't hit me.  And I hope it does hit me before I throw out the first pitch, because that only means one thing, that I'm nervous.  I'm human.  Not really nervous whether it affects my performance, but butterflies.  Because without butterflies, you know you're not really trying out there.  I'm going to have butterflies.  I actually have them now because of the increase in of the scenario here in Oakland right now.  
 

Q.  Was Roger your idol?
 
GIL HEREDIA:   Absolutely.  
 

Q.  Because of how hard he works? 
 
GIL HEREDIA:   I've heard he's one of the hardest workers in the game right now.  And being able to talk to some of his ex-teammates, I just  -- you know, even with more thoughtfulness that he's always going to be one of my idols.   
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT