NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v COYOTES
May 22, 2012
Keith Yandle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Keith Yandle.   
   
 Q.   Keith, Game5 coming up in a few hours.   Give us a sense of where this team is.   You staved off elimination on Sunday, have to do it again.   
KEITH YANDLE:   Yeah, exactly.   It's something we just got to step up, rise up to the occasion and try to do it again.   
Nobody in here wants the season to be over.   We want to keep playing.  
   
 Q.   Do you use what happened on Sunday as the blueprint or are there areas you'd like to do better?  
KEITH YANDLE:   I think we have to take the good from last game.   I think in those areas we played well, did a lot of things right.   Also you have to take some things you didn't do as well, know they're going to be better, know we've got to be better in all areas of the ice.  
   
 Q.   Do you think the pressure is more on them than you guys at this point?   
KEITH YANDLE:   They're a team, they're well‑coached.   They're probably not feeling the pressure too much.   You know, I mean, we're the ones that got to win the game.   We got to keep fighting, stay in this.   It's something that they're not going to give us anything.   We have to work for it.  
   
 Q.   Game4, how much do you think it was them taking a step back or you forcing them to take a step back?  
KEITH YANDLE:   I thought we did a better job.   I mean, obviously they're not going to give us anything.   They didn't go out there and expect to lose.   They were going out there to play to win obviously.   
I thought we did a better job than we had done the first three games.   Just the little things in the game, getting more shots in the net, things like that.  
   
 Q.   (Question regarding the penalties and calls.)   
KEITH YANDLE:   No, not really.   It's hard.   You don't know what's going to be called, what you can get away with.   Obviously we got to clean it up.   I think our penalties, we got a lot more than they do.   It's something we got to clean up.   When to hit a guy, when not to hit a guy.   
   
 Q.   How do you decide that if you don't know what a penalty is?  
KEITH YANDLE:   It's tough.   Maybe we should just not hit anyone, I guess (laughter).   
No, you actually got to play hard.   If you do get penalties, everybody has to step up and try to kill the penalties.   
   
 Q.   You're focusing on your game, but they have yet to lose on the road.   It's tough to win three on the road.   Is that how you guys are approaching it?  
KEITH YANDLE:   Yeah, you can't be focused on what they've done on the road.   We just have to play good in front of our fans, play good at home.   That's having home‑ice advantage.   Obviously the first two games didn't work out.   We have to take care of it now and start tonight.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Keith.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT