US OPEN
August 31, 2001
Iva Majoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Did you think you were going to win there when you led 5-4? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Yeah, I was probably thinking a little bit in the tiebreak. At the beginning of the third set, I didn't believe it that much. You know, I was getting a little bit tired and Martina was taking control, you know, in the third set. And then I just start fighting back, and I didn't want to give up so easy. And of course, you know, I was a little disappointed then in the tiebreak that I couldn't finish.  
 
Q. After the point that made it 5-5 in the tiebreak, it looked like you might be about to do a Sampras. Was that an ace? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: To do what? (Laughing).  
 
Q. Sampras. Get sick, vomit. 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: I felt like at 4-2, I really felt like I was gonna throw up. I mean, it was very hot and very humid today. And I just look at the chair person, you know, if what I should do. And she was just like, "Come on, let's play." So it didn't help much. And for the next two or three points, I was just like rushing because I wasn't there really. I was really exhausted. But, I mean, she played two or three really good points then. She was with the wind so her balls were a little bit deeper and I had to use even more energy to win the point. So bad luck, but I feel I'm coming back and my game is improving, that my level is coming. So hopefully a few more matches like this and I'm gonna win some.  
 
Q. You mentioned the 4-2 point. It was on that point when you popped that little volley over her head. Remember that? In the tiebreak. 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Uh-huh.  
 
Q. You led 4-2. You're both pretty close to the net. You hit the little volley over her head. 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Yeah.  
 
Q. You didn't hit it deep enough and she was able to get it. When you hit it, did you think you had her? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Well, my dropshot first wasn't great, I think, and she hit a pretty great shot. I was just kind of like put the racquet, and it wasn't too deep. So she was able to finish the point. But I don't think that's really the reason, I mean, for the whole tiebreak.  
 
Q. How bad was your thigh? You had your thumb, could you take us through that? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: My thigh, I just pulled out I think this morning in practice. And I don't know, during the match I just got a blister like open. So it was really bothering me with my forehand. But when they taped it, it was fine. I didn't feel pain. It was more the heat and the humidity that was a big factor. And I think Martina was still at this moment in a better shape than I am. I think my game really improved, and I've been working a lot. But I think to win the matches like this in this conditions, I should improve a little bit more my fitness, you know. I'm gonna do that this winter and really work, so I can throw up at home, you know, working out (laughing) so I'm fit at my matches.  
 
Q. Does playing her stir memories of 1997 for you? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Well, I think it's probably always in the back of Martina's head. And for me, it gives me also confidence that I beat her, you know, and we always had some good matches. So I also feel pretty confidence against her. And, I mean, we'll see. I'm just gonna keep working. And of course I'm disappointed in the way that I lost, but I also have to be proud of myself that I've been coming back and working hard. And I feel I belong - I feel I belong where I used to be, you know, in the Top 10. Unfortunately, I had so many injuries that always kept me out for few months, then I would come back, then again I would take off few months. So I'm just going to try to be fit and healthy. And I think if I keep going like this, I have a good chance to come back.  
 
Q. Where is her game compared to that French Open final? Is she essentially the same player that she was then, do you think? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Well, Martina is very consistent. You have to play great to beat her. She's not gonna give you the match. I mean, she's running great. She gives you lots of balls back. So if you start making errors, I mean you're gonna be out of there soon. So you have to be aggressive. You can't make mistakes. You really have to play good. And I think Martina is very similar where she was in '97, but I think few other girls improved like Jennifer and Venus and Serena, and they're playing very powerful tennis. And that's why I think it's a little bit more difficult for Martina against these girls. But I think she's still, I mean, a great player. And I'm sure she's not gonna go away easy. For sure she wants to win many more Grand Slams.  
 
Q. A lot of people, when they read about this match, it was a wonderful match, are going to say, "Where's she been? Don't we remember her from somewhere, 1997?" 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: I'm also tired of everyone saying, "'97, French Open." I'm like, "Forget that. Now it's 2001. I want to win another one."  
 
Q. People will say, "Where has she been? What happened?" 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Everyone thinks I was home and partying, I guess (laughing). I'm sure most of the people think that. But, no, I really -- I mean I had so many problems with injuries and I was out for my shoulder, and I didn't know if I should do the surgery or not. And then at the end, I traveled more than I did for tennis to find out what it was for my shoulder. And the end, I had to do the shoulder so it took another six months to recover. And I think I was lucky to even get wildcards, because I couldn't get my special ranking because in that period I did try to play one or two tournaments. So my ranking this time last year was I think around 450. And of course if you're not seeded, I mean, you can play first or second round the top players, because I think women's game really improve. And I think really, I mean, everything is possible at the tournaments from the first round. I mean, everyone can beat everyone. So it's a little bit more difficult than I think it used to be. But, you know, I hope I'm gonna be back to Top 20 soon.  
 
Q. Are you committed now? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Yeah, I'm very committed. Jennifer is my great friend, and, you know, when she was down, we used to talk a lot. And look where she is now. She helps me a lot, too. She just says like, "Keep your head up. If you work hard, you know how to play tennis. Your game is there." I think I just need some matches, you know, some wins to get my confidence back. And when you win few of these, I mean when your confidence is back, then you can really beat everyone.  
 
Q. When things were really bad, was she one of the few players sort of to reach out to you and keep in touch that way? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Yeah, we've always been very close and good friends. No matter how we play, we put tennis even on the side. We are friends off the court.  
 
Q. You had played Martina twice before this year, before today. Both times were real struggles. Do you think you understand how to play her better than the other players? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Well, I don't know. I just try to play my game. Maybe that's the game she doesn't like (laughing). But I don't know. I hope I can beat her also sometimes, even if I cause her some troubles (smiling).  
 
Q. Are you coached now? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Yeah, I have a coach from Croatia. (Mico Zoric) We started working after the French Open. I can tell you later his name, because I don't think -- I have to spell it. And my father is helping me again. He's gonna travel more with me. And he's just a big support, you know. And really I'm very committed again, and I want to get back. And, you know, everyone said Goran won the Wimbledon title. I said, "Well, it's my turn again. I was the first one in Croatia." So I have to prove it.  
 
Q. Do you think if you crack the Top 10 or Top 20, do you think you'll make "Comeback Player of the Year" again, two years in a row? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Well, I don't really worry about that too much. I think there are lots of players. But I feel my place is in Top 10 and that's where I want to be again. I'm gonna try to do everything that's in my power to be there again and get in better shape and keep working hard on my tennis game. And we'll see where I'm gonna be next year this time.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT