STATE FARM EVERT CUP
March 11, 1997
Iva Majoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. How many times in the third set did you feel you were in control of the match? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Well, she was up 2-Love in the third and then I broke her back. I held my serve; then I went up 3-2. I was really starting to feel better and getting a little bit more control in my game. But, you know, everything changed so fast. And, my serve was just so bad today that, I mean, I was playing her pretty good on her service games, but then I would rush so much on mine. I don't know. I mean, when you want to play your best you just screw up everything. So I was very disappointed because I thought I should have won this match. I didn't think she is that great and that I should have lost. I just played totally wrong. I made too many errors.  
 
Q. When you came over to the chair, what was wrong with your foot? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Because I wear two pairs of socks just my blisters were getting pretty bad so just asked the chair umpire if I could just stay a little bit longer to fix my socks.  
 
Q. You said that she is not that great. However, she is good enough to give you a hard time out there today. Can you talk a little bit about? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: She is a tough player. I mean, I don't think she is that great as they have been talking for a couple of years already. She hasn't played that many tournaments, but she is tough, you know, she doesn't care. She doesn't really care who you are. She doesn't really care what you are doing. So, she has her own style, today, I think I just -- I played her first time. I guess I got a little bit nervous. But, I mean, I think she played one of the best matches. I watched her both matches here, and I don't know if it is because I gave her a chance or because she really played that great.  
 
Q. It is too late now, but what should you have done to give her more trouble? What weaknesses could you have taken advantage of? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: First of all, I served very bad. I couldn't do anything with my serve. I don't know what happened. But, I just wasn't serving well. And, I think I just should have mixed it up a little bit more, hit some high spin balls and just play to her body more because she moves pretty good. But, she is a very tall person and she doesn't have the timing so great. So, I think I should have attacked second serve a little bit more, make more winners, you know, because her first serve is very, very strong. I mean, when she puts the first serve in, it is almost 100% her point. But, second serve, it is -- it is not that strong. It is like 65, 70 miles. So, I think I should have put more pressure on her service games by making some winners on second serves. I don't know, I mean, -- just -- shit happens. It happened today. I am just going to enjoy myself the rest of the day. Have some drinks and have fun.  
 
Q. You have to play doubles tomorrow and you pushed strongly the previous day. Maybe that was the cause, that little crisis in the middle of the third set. 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Well, I don't think so. I mean, it was pretty weird with the schedule. I finished pretty late last night and also Venus, they put us first match. So it was the same for both of us. I can't get any excuses. I mean, it was hot, you know,, but I was feeling pretty good, the same for both players. But, I am just going to try my best tomorrow in doubles, and get ready for Lipton.  
 
Q. It is not going to bother you that blister? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Because when you run so much and it is so hot, it gets like -- and I wear two pairs of socks so it is kind of rough, but it is going to be fine. No problem.  
 
Q. You had a matchpoint on her and she hit a big serve -- 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: I had two, I think, matchpoints.  
 
Q. On the second one she hit a big serve. Is that what you do when you are 16 years old and you don't have any pressure on you when she hit a serve like that? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Well, yeah, I don't know if every 16 year old will do that, but she is just different than the other ones. I mean, she just has some craziness in her, I think, and she is just going for everything. In some ways that is good, she doesn't care about anyone, anything, she just plays tennis.  
 
Q. I have to ask a question about Kournikova. She was pushing for you. She was at the game. She was kind of your fan. She was going, "Go, Iva. Go Iva." 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: I know Anna. We have been together in the academy for a long time together. She is nice. We know each other for very long. I would do the same for her.  
 
Q. Bright future for her? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Yeah she is nice. She is young also, and there is many young players coming.  
 
Q. Tell us some names except her and Venus? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Her and Venus. This girl from Croatia, Lucic. She just turned 15 and she won last year U.S. Open and Australian Open this year, and she got to some finals of 25 and 50,000, so she really, I mean, she beat just Wiesner now in Fed Cup and all these players. So, I think things for her look pretty good too.  
 
Q. How would you compare Anna to Venus? Do you think she has more weapons? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Well, you know they both hit the ball pretty hard. It is hard to say. Maybe if they play together one time I can tell you a little bit more. But, I think the more power tennis, like both Venus and Anna and these young players that are coming they play very aggressive, bigger serves. I meant, also there girl Lucic, she is almost as tall as Venus. All these girls, they are so big and they just go for everything.  
 
Q. Do you think -- Anna had an okay tournament here, but what do you think she has to do to get her game up to say, a top-20 level? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: I think you need lots of matches. You need confidence. You need experience. And, with this rule now, I mean, she can't get there. I think it is not fair for Anna. If they already play on the Tour, they should let her play the regular Tour like they did for Martina. So it is hard when you are not playing tournaments; then you just come and everyone expects you to do well and you don't have matches. So, I think it is not easy. But, I am sure when she gets her confidence, you know, when she wins a couple of the matches, it is going to be easier for her. But maybe a little bit more patience, with her strokes, I think she can work on that. I think all this comes with experience in the matches.  
 
Q. It's seems like most -- like you were commenting before most of the good young players coming up now and if you look at the top-100, they are from eastern Europe. There is dozens of players. Why do you think that is? Venus is really an exception to the rule now there. There is a lot of Croatians and Slovakians and Czechs, and Russians. Do you think they are more hungry to play? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Oh, it could be. I mean, they work hard. But I mean, I don't really know. I mean, Americans also like to win. They like to work hard. So, just maybe depends on generation or --  
 
Q. Are there two schools in your point of view, like two schools, two different styles, European style, right now? Looking to Serena Williams, she is lifting weights? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Yeah, she looks like a boxer she has muscles.  
 
Q. Is that something new? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Well, I don't know. I mean, they are very strong girls. You can tell. And, well, I think the Americans, they just hit more flat and they go for the shots. I think Europeans are more like they mix up a lot more. I don't know, at the young age maybe they just work a little bit different than the Americans.  
 
Q. Had you had much contact with Venus off-court? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: No. I don't really want to have any.  
 
Q. Are you mad that you didn't play her forehand more? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Well, I should have played her forehand more, but I don't know.  
 
Q. Did your coach tell you that when you came off after? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: It is hard to tell something. I mean, I was really disappointed. Well, I don't know. I mean, I just didn't play the way I wanted to. I think she played a pretty good match.  
 
Q. Looking ahead a couple a little bit, at the next major which will be the French last couple of years you have reached the quarters, but the tournaments have been so different mainly because of the weather. Is that something that is fairly unique to Roland Garros; you have the slow rainy two years ago, last year it was hot and fast. Do you feel that is unique to Paris? How do you tend to deal with weather fluctuations? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: At the French?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Well, I mean, that is my favorite tournament. I love to play there. Well, I think I have more chances two years ago when I was against Kimiko in the quarters. Last year I played Steffi. She was pretty tough. But, we will see. I am definitely looking forward to the French. First I have been winning all these tournaments indoors, maybe I should just play indoor tournaments. I don't know what is going on. I am just going to try better at the Lipton. Hopefully win some more matches. Maybe play Venus. And beat her.  
 
Q. Do you think there is a certain Bollettieri style of player? Do you think each player is a little bit different? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Well, I guess we all hit the ball pretty hard from Nick. But, I don't know if you can tell it is a Nick style. I mean, when you look most of the players from the Bollettieri, they hit the ball hard. There is not too many players, not any players who play like Martina, you know, because I think it is get pretty tough to play a serve and volley with all these big weapons that young players have. So I think most of the girls just play from the baseline and hard.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT