CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE COREL WTA TOUR
November 21, 1996
Iva Majoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. How are you feeling and what happened out there on the court? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: I was feeling good the first set finish and then I hate that thing, my rib kind of moved, I had the same problem in Australia this year, and I had the problem breathing, so when the points were long it was very difficult for me to keep playing good, because I wouldn't have any energy to breathe. And I've been treating now a little bit and it's getting a little bit better, but it's still not a hundred percent, hopefully tomorrow I'll have some more treatments and be ready to play on Saturday.  
 
Q. What is the problem? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: It's my rib, it kind of moved, that's what the trainer said.  
 
Q. The front, the left? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Yeah, the front and also the same position in the back, so the same thing.  
 
Q. You say you couldn't get your breath, what was the feeling like that you couldn't get any air in? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: It's hard because when you want to take the deep breath you can't, because the pain was very strong. And I just, you know, I gave my best. It was very hard.  
 
Q. It didn't seem to affect your movement afterward, you were running around whacking the ball? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: I was running pretty good, but I was getting tired very fast, after the first or second ball, because I didn't have enough energy. But I didn't want it to go third set, for sure, so I gave it all my energy.  
 
Q. Would you have played the third set? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: It would be hard. It would be hard because I was getting down a little bit, you know, and then I was down 4-2 in the second set and then I came back 4-all. And it was 6-all and I was just thinking, just play point-by-point and try to win.  
 
Q. What do you think about the umpire? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: What?  
 
Q. What do you think about the umpire? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: I don't know. When she gave Conchita a point penalty I didn't know what was going on. So I just went back to check what happened because I didn't hear what they were talking about. I was a little bit confused when Conchita just walk off the court, and she didn't say anything to the chair umpire. And then she just walked for a couple of minutes and I was like, how can she do that? And Martina said she did say something to the chair umpire, but the chair umpire said she didn't. I don't think you can leave the court without telling what's wrong. I got a little piece there, but I tried to forget it.  
 
Q. Does that make you more determined to win? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: What?  
 
Q. Does that kind of thing make you more determined to win after that? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: The match was so tough I didn't have time to think about why did she leave the court or anything like that. I just wanted to concentrate on each point and trying to play my best tennis. But Conchita has really tough game, she has great forehand, lots of topspin. So when the ball bounce it jumps so high, it's so hard to control. And her backhand slice, it's also very effective, she can move you from one side to another, so you really have to play each point very good.  
 
Q. Other players this week have been talking about the long season makes you more prone to injury; you've got a problem today. Do you think that's because of too much tennis? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Some players like to play more, some don't. But I think it's good that something changes. I think this ranking wasn't good enough because the players didn't play enough tournaments. Lots of them were calculating with the ranking, so at least next year you can play more relaxed. You can play more tournaments and we'll see at the end of the year how it's going to work. But the season is long, there is no -- like I'm going to have ten days break, which I don't think is much.  
 
Q. You said you could be more relaxed by playing more tournaments? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: Yes, but also to be fit, to be able to play. The players that don't want to play that much can make a good schedule and play as much tournaments as they want. We'll see what's going to happen. But I'm the person that likes to play more tournaments, so for me it's okay.  
 
Q. Any predictions for the Date/Hingis match? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: They've never played. They're both tough players. Whoever wins it's going to be a tough match. I never beat Date, I lost her twice. And I beat Martina, I beat her, I don't know if I lost to her. So I don't care, you know, I think I'm very happy that I got to the semifinal. And I think whoever wins, it's going to be a good match on Saturday and we both have a chance, either Martina and Date or me. One of us will get to the final. Hopefully I can do it, but it's going to be tough. I'm looking forward, I'm sure it's going to be great tennis.  
 
Q. You played doubles with Martina, and then you stopped, is there a chance you're going to get back together again? 
 
 IVA MAJOLI: I don't think so. I don't really want to play that much doubles, especially with the new ranking, more and more tournaments. Maybe I'll just play in some Grand Slams or something, but I don't want to play more tournaments. I think it's too much for my body to play lots of singles and especially if you do well, to play lots of doubles.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT