FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
March 31, 1995
Iva Majoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  What happened?  You were so much in control, you were hitting the line with every ball.
 
IVA MAJOLI: Can you tell me? I mean, I don't know, I just played really well first set and then 3-Love in the second and it's very difficult to play against Conchita because she has lots of spin in her balls and at 3-Love I missed a couple of those and I lost my confidence and start missing more and more and start making more mistakes and that's when he she take control of the match. 
 

Q.  Did she do anything different at all?
 
IVA MAJOLI: Well, she was missing less, you know.  I mean, the first set because I probably gave her a chance and in the first set I was in control and I was making winners and everything, then in the second and third set she start doing that and I was just giving the balls back, you know, making errors.  I wasn't patient. 
 

Q.  Did you begin thinking at some point after 3-Love in the second about the fact that it was slipping away and maybe that --
 
IVA MAJOLI: Not really.  I mean, I wasn't thinking about that.  I just -- I wasn't feeling the ball as good as I did in the first set and that's when everything went wrong. 
 

Q.  Is that attributed to her having more experience or having been a Wimbledon champion and maybe you're still getting that experience?
 
IVA MAJOLI: Well, I don't think it is, you know.  If I was playing just a little bit better I think I had a chance to win this match.  I don't think it's experience or anything, I think it's just my bad play in the second and third set.  Too many errors.  My serve was very bad.  I mean, I made so many doublefaults and I missed so much first serves and you can't play these things. 
 

Q.  You said the other day you like playing against the top players because they're always having to think about winning and you can just go out there and play.  When you got up 3-0 in the second, did you start thinking about winning and sort of --
 
IVA MAJOLI: I wasn't really.  I wasn't thinking about that as much.  Maybe I was rushing a little bit.  I was missing lots of first and second balls and that's what she likes and, you know, then she got confident and she was hitting really high balls on the lines and I couldn't do anything. 
 

Q.  How tough a match is it?  Is this something you're going to be able to forget quickly or is this going to stay with you for a while?
 
IVA MAJOLI: I don't know, every time you lose a match in which you had lots of chances, especially if you play the No. 4 player in the world, I'm sure I'm going to think about.  I'm pretty upset because I had the match in my hands and I just let it slip away.  I'm going to try to play better in Houston and see what happens. 
 

Q.  Didn't she start hitting more moonballs there in the second set and that gave you a lot of trouble? 
 
IVA MAJOLI: Who, Conchita? 
 

Q.  She started moonballing?
 
IVA MAJOLI: She was doing that in the whole match, but in the first set I handled those balls pretty well but in the second set she started playing the same way but I missed more, and when you miss a couple of those -- there's lots of spin in those balls and when they jump they go really high, so you have to really hit the ball well, you know, to make a good shot. 
 

Q.  After she won the second -- come back and won the second set did you feel that you could turn it around in the third set?
 
IVA MAJOLI: I did, you know.  I mean, I thought we both have one set and that it was a final set and one of us had a chance to win and I just couldn't get in my game, you know, I wasn't feeling the ball well, I wasn't serving well.  There's nothing I could do today. 
 

Q.  At what point in the third set did you think it was a lost cause?
 
IVA MAJOLI: Probably 4-Love, 40-30. (LAUGHTER.) No, I mean it's just those days, you know, I wasn't feeling that confident in the third set and she won. 
 

Q.  To all of us it just seemed like someone did a switch and I mean you went there from --
 
IVA MAJOLI: That's what happens in tennis. It's never over 'till it's over, you have to finish the last point. 
 

Q.  In the that fourth game when you lost you played that one really loose, you doublefaulted.
 
IVA MAJOLI: In the third set? 
 

Q.  No, second set, fourth game when you were at 3-0 you made like two, three errors --
 
IVA MAJOLI: I was probably rushing. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT