FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
March 30, 1995
Iva Majoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  A little tough at the end.

IVA MAJOLI:   Yes.  I wasn't feeling that well the whole match.  I don't know, I was shaking the whole time, I don't know what happened.  I mean, I wasn't nervous or anything I was just -- I don't know what happened.  I just couldn't relax.  I was just shaking on the court the whole match.


Q.  No reason why?

IVA MAJOLI:   No, I don't know, my head was hurting a little, I was shaking, I don't know.  So I'm glad I'm through with this match.


Q.  The bugs are getting to you?

IVA MAJOLI:   Maybe I ate too many bugs.  I ate a couple this morning, I don't know later.  But now I feel fine.  This is the first time that that happened.  I don't know.  I was feeling very weird.


Q.  Other than that did you feel good about the way you're playing and your position right now in the tournament?

IVA MAJOLI:   Excuse me?


Q.  Other than that do you feel good about the way you're playing and where you are in the tournament, your position on the draw?

IVA MAJOLI:   Well, I think I play the winner of Conchita and I don't know who she plays, and that one is going to be tough.  But I played Conchita last year in the semis and I lost 6-4 in the third, and I beat her after that easier in Spain, and I'm looking forward and I think it's going to be a good match.


Q.  Where did you beat her?

IVA MAJOLI:   I beat her in quarterfinals in Barcelona.


Q.  On clay?

IVA MAJOLI:   Yeah.  We'll see.


Q.  You didn't going to go to Australia this year?

IVA MAJOLI:   No, I played indoor tournaments and this year and I rest a little bit and this is the first tournament outdoors.


Q.  I remember a year ago we said where have you been and you were hurt.

IVA MAJOLI:   Yeah, I was hurt a couple of months after French, my stomach muscle, so I didn't play for two or three months.  And after that, you know, I was struggling 'till the end of the year.  I couldn't get my rhythm, I wasn't playing as well.  Then last year was pretty good for me, I qualified for the championship.  It was my goal for last year and I'm ranked 12th now and hopefully I'll move in the top ten real soon.


Q.  So you're on the pace you want to be on?

IVA MAJOLI:   Yes.


Q.  No injuries.  Are you learning to pace yourself better?

IVA MAJOLI:   No injuries, you know, I'm fine and healthy and feeling great.


Q.  Is this a good time then to be playing a player like Martinez?

IVA MAJOLI:   It is I think.  I always like to play the top players and I have nothing to lose and she has to defend lots of points.  So I'm just going to try to  play the best I can and see what happens.


Q.  Is it true you've always played better against better players?

IVA MAJOLI:   I have nothing to lose.  I just play, you know, I don't care about the score and they have to think about, you know, winning.  So I have a little advantage.  So we'll see.


Q.  Who's coaching you now?

IVA MAJOLI:   I work with my brother most of the time but I also work with Nikki Pilic a little bit in Germany. But it's real hard right now because I'm traveling, you know, and he's very busy working for Davis Cup, but he's going to come to Grand Slams and maybe some tournaments in Germany.


Q.  What is your brother's name?

IVA MAJOLI:   Dado, D-A-D-O.


Q.  Is he much older than you?

IVA MAJOLI:   He's 24.


Q.  Is he here?

IVA MAJOLI:   Yes, my whole family came with me here and my dad is also working with us I think for another year, maybe, but he wants to go away from tennis.


Q.  Will you become a U S citizen?

IVA MAJOLI:   I'm not thinking about that right now.  Not now.


Q.  Are you interested, for instance, in the Olympics next year?

IVA MAJOLI:   Well, I'm going to play for Croatia.  I'm going to play with Goran for Croatia because we are really good friends.


Q.  Federation Cup too?

IVA MAJOLI:   Yes.  We're playing that in Spain.


Q.  You're a Croat then?

IVA MAJOLI:   Yeah.  We're both pretty upset that we couldn't play Hopman Cup this year because Goran was flying so we couldn't play but next year we'll play Olympics and Hopman Cup, everything.


Q.  What does Nikki or your brother tell you that you need to work on most now?

IVA MAJOLI:   Well, they said I can still improve everything, but Nikki is working a lot on my vollies and my serve and that's what I'm trying to improve. They both say I still have time, I'm 17 and I'm not in a hurry.  I have time, you know.  I don't think about oh, I have to be No. 2 or 3 'till I'm 18, you know, so there is no pressure from anyone.


Q.  You doublefaulted pretty often today.

IVA MAJOLI:   I did.  Usually I improve my serve a lot and today I don't know what happened.


Q.  You lost a couple of games.

IVA MAJOLI:   Yeah, I doublefaulted a couple of times.


Q.  I do it all the time.

IVA MAJOLI:   I know that, I played you one time.


Q.  How about playing Martinez tomorrow, did you talk about that?

IVA MAJOLI:   Excuse me?


Q.  Playing Conchita tomorrow.

IVA MAJOLI:   We'll see, I'll try to win.


Q.  You were very close last year.

IVA MAJOLI:   Yes.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT