FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
March 28, 1995
Iva Majoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You were on a roll, tell us a little bit about the match.

IVA MAJOLI: Yeah, I mean, I think I played well and it's the first match of the season on the clay courts and I don't know what's going to happen because she already played two matches in clay and she played pretty well the two matches before me, so I thought oh well, I just have to play the best I can and see what happens.  I played well and maybe she didn't play her best tennis, but I'm happy I got through with my first match; looking forward to the next round.


Q.  Does it give you a little confidence?  I think you're the only one not to drop a game so far.

IVA MAJOLI: Well, of course, it always gives you confidence when you beat someone that easy, especially if you play well.


Q.  You seem to be really in charge of your points.  Do you prefer clay over hard courts?

IVA MAJOLI: Well, I like both but I grew up on clay.  I mean, in Europe there's only clay courts, so I have to say clay is my favorite surface, but I also love to play indoors.


Q.  So you're No. 12 in the world now?

IVA MAJOLI: Yes.


Q.  And you've climbed a lot in the last -- I guess you came here last year and you were in the 20s or 30s, and you've come far in the last year at 17. What do you anticipate for this year?  What's your goal?

IVA MAJOLI: Well, I just try to play the best I can and work hard and I think if I do that I have a big chance, you know, to get in the top ten very soon and then maybe more 'till the end of the year.  But I don't know how much is that.  We'll see.  I just hope I'm healthy and playing well.


Q.  Was last year your first Family Circle?

IVA MAJOLI: Excuse me.


Q.  Was last are year your first Family Circle?

IVA MAJOLI: No, I played the year before also.  I lost to Lindsay.


Q.  Do you notice any difference in maturity and confidence?

IVA MAJOLI: Yeah, of course.  I mean, this is my third and fourth year of touring, and each year you learn something.  And, you know, I really am enjoying it a lot.  I love to compete, and I love this tournament.  It's really nice.  And the crowd is great, there's so much people from the beginning of the tournament which is very good.  And I hope I'll continue and do well here.


Q.  You turned pro as a 14-year-old.

IVA MAJOLI: Yeah.


Q.  Do you agree with the WTA's new rule about limiting play for younger professionals?

IVA MAJOLI: Well, I think it's very good because I think there is so much pressure, you know, getting into young players, and when I started when I was 14 I just played maybe four or five tournaments that year and then when I was 15 I played maybe seven or eight tournaments.  But I did play a lot of small  tournaments, 25,000 and 50, so I didn't start, you know, from the beginning to a big tournament.  So I think it's very good what they've done, you know, moving the age to 16.  And I think it's just, you know, better.


Q.  Did you do that by design?  I mean not play that many tournaments when you first came on?

IVA MAJOLI: Excuse me?


Q.  Did you do it intentionally; not play that many events?

IVA MAJOLI: Yeah. I mean, my managers and parents, they didn't want me to play too much because they knew if I started playing big tournaments that there would be lots of pressure on me and they didn't want that.  I'm very happy right now, I'm 17 and I'm ranked 12th and I'm moving slowly but I'm moving, so I continue moving and that will be great.


Q.  Did you miss not having gone to school the last three or four years?

IVA MAJOLI: Well, you know, I'm a senior now and I'm looking forward to finishing my school.  But it's hard, you know, when you travel all year.  But I'm taking correspondence and I'm trying to finish as soon as possible.


Q.  What about then your chances of entering college?

IVA MAJOLI: Well, I don't know.  I mean, I'm going to get a diploma, then I can go to college if I want to go.  But for now, at this moment, I don't think I'm going to go.  Maybe in the future, but right now tennis is my first love and that's what I want to do.


Q.  This is going to be a silly question, but how much bigger are you physically than you were last year?  I remember walking behind you and you were like around here and I just looked up and saw you.

IVA MAJOLI: I don't know how much I grew.


Q.  It seems like you've grown --

IVA MAJOLI: It's probably because you guys haven't seen me for some time.


Q.  Could be.

IVA MAJOLI: Well, I think I'm around five-eight or something.  When you look at the other players they're also pretty high, so...


Q.  Are you satisfied with where you're at now, your game?  Are you satisfied?

IVA MAJOLI: I am.  I mean--


Q.  Were you surprised?

IVA MAJOLI: I mean, I had good beginning of the year.  I didn't go to Australia, I had two indoors tournaments, semifinals, very good matches.  And I missed Lipton, I wanted to take some time off because I'm playing a lot in Europe after this.  So I'm just looking forward for a clay season and I'm feeling good.  We'll see what's going to happen.


Q.  Thank you.

IVA MAJOLI: Thank you.  See you next match.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT