FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
April 2, 1994
Iva Majoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Iva, are you a little disappointed or  just happy with as far as you went?  

IVA MAJOLI:  Well, I don't know.  I mean, I am  disappointed that I lost.  I was so close.  Because every time the match is close and you lose  you are like -- you feel bad.  But I think I  needed more energy if I wanted to beat Conchita.  


Q.  You had some critically long drives in  the corner, then you hit a drop shot.  I think you  felt that she couldn't possibly reach it.  She  reached.  How does that make you feel?  

IVA MAJOLI:  I mean, I don't know.  I was ready that  she is going to reach and we had lots of long  points.  She hits topspin balls which are very  hard to give it back because they are very deep  and you have to work very hard for every point.  I  tried to work as hard as I could.  Some points, I  was just feeling down.  


Q.  You had treatment on your back.  What  was wrong with your back?  

IVA MAJOLI:  I don't know.  I think I just pulled a  muscle a little bit on my lower back, but it is  nothing serious, but just --  


Q.  You did that during the match?  

IVA MAJOLI:  No, it has been bothering me for a  couple of days.  


Q.  Did it affect your play at all or not?  

IVA MAJOLI:  It bothered me a little bit when I was  serving and stretching, but that is not the reason  that I lost, you know.  I think she played better  than I did today, and maybe next time it is going  to be better.  


Q.  What about when she had her injury out  the first time, that is five minutes, that is a  long time to sit around.  Did it have any effect  on you, that, or the second time?  

IVA MAJOLI:  Not really.  I needed a break anyway.  


Q.  You haven't had a straight-set win  since the first round.  They all went three sets.  Were you a little tired coming in today?  

IVA MAJOLI:  I was a little tired.  I had a doubles  matche and single matche - very hard single  matches - but I didn't really think about it when  I was on the court.  It is just that some points I  was, you know, a little tired, but I gave my best.  


Q.  You were aware she had blisters, I am  sure.  Did you think about trying to do  anything --  

IVA MAJOLI:  I didn't think about it.  It is just  blisters.  They just tape them and they are fine,  so --  


Q.  Being the surprise, and getting here,  and all the fans behind you, how does that make  you feel, and how will this help your career?  

IVA MAJOLI:  Well, it is always great when you have  fans behind you, especially if it is a tough  match.  They always help you if they are cheering  your name.  It is great.  


Q.  You have been playing sort of up and  down lately.  Do you feel like this is maybe a  turning point for you?  

IVA MAJOLI:  Well, this is a very good tournament  for me and I think my game got better and better  and I think I am going to start playing better in  the next tournaments and you know, I think if I  play well this year, I could do very well, so we  will see.  


Q.  Do you think Iva, the match might have  gotten away, you were down 2-Love in the third set  you came back in the fourth game, 40-15; then lost  your serve?  

IVA MAJOLI:  I know.  I think I should have won that  game.  Even in 5-4, I had a couple of chances, and  I just rushed, you know, I mean, we had a long  points, when I had advantage, I always wanted to  finish too quick, which I didn't have to, but I  don't know what I was thinking.  


Q.  I think you had one, I think, at the  eighth game, you tried a real sharp forehand  crosscourt.  Did you go for too much on that shot  on game point; do you think?  

IVA MAJOLI:  I don't remember.  There were so many  cross courts, so --  I don't know I just know that  I get to rest for a couple of days; then get ready  for the next tournament.  


Q.  When you were coming up the rankings  last year, there were some comparisons to Monica  with your game and everything.  Do you think those  comparisons were fair and what do you think of  them now?  

IVA MAJOLI:  I don't really mind, you know, some  people were saying, but I just didn't may too much  attention, and I mean it is okay, she was No. 1 in  the world, but it doesn't really bother me.  I  don't really think about it.  


Q.  At one point you seemed to take  something off the ball, you were hitting some high  balls and maybe a couple of loose shots, you  missed some points.  Then you would come back and  really hit with a lot of pace and have her on the  run.  In retrospect, do you think you should have  kept hitting out on the ball and kept hitting the  pressure --  

IVA MAJOLI:  It is very hard to hit the balls all  the time because her balls are so deep and lots of  spin, so it is very hard to control them.  It is  very hard, so I don't know, some balls I just  couldn't, I just had to give it back.  


Q.  Was wind the factor at all?  

IVA MAJOLI:  I don't think so, no.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT