FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
April 1, 1994
Iva Majoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How does it feel to be in the semis?  
 
IVA MAJOLI:  It feels great.   
 

Q.  It looked like in the first game you  came out you make an error on the first point,  then she hits a couple of overheads; game took  about a minute and a half?  
 
IVA MAJOLI:  First game in the first set?   
 

Q.  Yeah, I mean, it just went over real  quick.  Were you thinking it's going to be a long  day after that, or --  
 
IVA MAJOLI:  Not really.  I mean, I knew it is going  to be a very hard match.  I know Lindsay is  playing very well now.  I knew I was going to have  to play really well to beat her, and played last  week and she beat me easy and I was making lots of  errors at that time, and my balls were so short  and she could do whatever she wanted.  So I wanted  to keep my ball deeper today and tried to mix it  up and be patient.   
 

Q.  Did you lose concentration in the  second set?  
 
IVA MAJOLI:  I mean, I don't know.  Lindsay started  playing better and I start making some errors and  I mean, this week, I lost three times, you know,  second set, so just said to myself, okay, the  second set is over, try to concentrate on the  third set and --   
 

Q.  What were you thinking in the first  set?  You were serving for the match -- I mean,  for the set and you had two doublefaults in that  game to let her back in?  
 
IVA MAJOLI:  I know.  I mean, when you miss the  first serve against Lindsay you have to serve  pretty good second serve, otherwise you have no  chance, you know, so sometimes it is hard,  especially if you have a little pressure or  something.   
 

Q.  Iva, how good does it feel to be the  surprise of this tournament?  I don't know if you  know the history of this tournament; some great  players got their first big win here.  
 
IVA MAJOLI:  I think it feels great, especially  after I beat Gabriela, that was my biggest win and  I had a very tough match yesterday and I mean, I  think I am playing pretty well and we will see  what is going to happen tomorrow.   
 

Q.  How much did the victory over Gaby help  you know, in these last two matches?  
 
IVA MAJOLI:  I mean, I was very happy the day when I  beat Gabriela, but next day, I had to concentrate  my next match, you know, so it wasn't much time to  really think about it, because I played Leila  Meskhi and she is a good player too, so I have to  give 100% if I wanted to beat her.   
 

Q.  Gave you more confidence obviously  going into --  
 
IVA MAJOLI:  Yeah, I think I was playing pretty good  this week, so --   
 

Q.  Why do you feel that this week you have  been playing better?  I mean, earlier in the year  you have been a little bit up and down?  
 
IVA MAJOLI:  Well, I know, I think I am starting to  play better.  Last year my game was a little  different and I was making more errors, so I  decided to change it a little and give more spin  in my strokes and just be patient and that is what  helped me this week.   
 

Q.  Is any of your drive because of your  country to show your country something or to  highlight the problems your country has?  
 
IVA MAJOLI:  I don't understand the question.   
 

Q.  Are you doing this for your country as  well?  
 
IVA MAJOLI:  I am doing it for myself.  But, I mean  Ivanisevic is for the same country and so I mean,  I am happy you know, that I am somebody in my  country, but I am really doing it for myself.   
 

Q.  What about Conchita next, what is it  going to take on your part?  
 
IVA MAJOLI:  I don't think I am playing Conchita.   
 

Q.  Yes.  
 
IVA MAJOLI:  I play Conchita?  I thought I played  Arantxa or Mary.  I don't know.  I mean, I never  played Conchita before, so we will see though.   
 

Q.  Do you think Lindsay was getting tired  at all in the third set?  
 
IVA MAJOLI:  I don't know.  I think we were both  tired.  I was tired too, but I tried to keep the  ball in play and she start making more errors and  that is what helped me and I make some good shots.   
 

Q.  You mentioned your game has changed.  What were you doing last year that you said you  were changing?  You said you changed your game  from last year?  
 
IVA MAJOLI:  I don't know, I mean, my balls were  pretty short.  I hit more flat and everything and  the other girls are, you know, older and stronger,  so I thought that I don't have my chances with  it.  So I just wanted to give more spin.  I think  it is better.   
 

Q.  What sort of expectations did you have  coming into this tournament?  
 
IVA MAJOLI:  Well, I mean, I don't know, every match  is tough.  You have to concentrate for every  match.  I knew if I was going to play well that I  have a big chance, you know, so I was just taking  match by match and tomorrow I play "Conchita," so  we will see.   
 

Q.  Are you relieved to discover that you  are not playing Sanchez?  
 
IVA MAJOLI:  I don't know what I -- I thought I  played Arantxa or Mary, I don't know.   
 

Q.  Thank you.   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT