PNC FATHER/SON CHALLENGE
December 14, 2013
Stewart Cink
Connor Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Stewart and Connor, 29, 32,61;   11‑under par first round of the event.   First time here in the event.   You played pretty good.   Just a brief comment from each of you about how you played and any highlights during the round.   Obviously probably the eagle at three.
STEWART CINK:   Yeah, we got off to a really nice start.   Not exactly on the first hole.   We struggled a little bit for par there. 
No. 2 we made a really nice birdie on a tough hole. 
Then 3, the eagle, was obviously a bonus.   Had about a 15‑footer for eagle there.
I don't know.   We seemed to get really freed up and had some good putts go in.   Whenever Connor hit it out of play, which was unusual today, I hit some good drives and put us in good shape.
But we really were a good team out there.   We had fun.   I don't know, we kind of fed off each other.   It was a really good effort I thought.
CONNOR CINK:   Some clutch driving from the big guy.   That was essential.   Good putting on both sides.   We played good scramble golf.   It was good.   Ham and egging it.

Q.   Connor, you're not a golfer by trade, but thoughts playing the first round in this event. 
CONNOR CINK:   I had a lot of fun.   From the getgo, even after the first hole, I was having fun with it. 
Dad didn't put a whole lot of pressure on me.   We're not putting a whole lot of pressure on each other.   We're just having a good time.   It just happened that we had some putts fall, some drives go in the fairway, and we made things happen.
STEWART CINK:   I think basically we didn't have a lot of expectations coming into the tournament because Connor doesn't play a lot of golf tournaments.   He doesn't play that much golf at all, so we didn't really know what was going to happen.
We knew some of the teams here play a lot of tournament golf.   It's just a good time for us to spend together.   Turned out today was a really good day of chemistry.
THE MODERATOR:   Before questions, details on the eagle.   You said 15 feet.   Who hit the second shot and what did you hit and who made the putt? 
STEWART CINK:   It all started when he put it in the fairway off the tee with his 3‑wood and I could just launch it and hit a driver down the fairway and   5‑iron about 15 feet and I made the putt.
But he was helpful in all cases, because his putt almost went in and showed me the exact line.   It was just two‑man scramble golf at its finest right there. 

Q.   Connor said he was surprised when you called him and said, Hey, let's play.   How long has that been in your mind that you wanted to do this?
STEWART CINK:   To be honest, as soon as I won the Open Championship it's the first thing I thought was, Hey, I get to play in the father‑son now. 
Then the tournament kind of disappeared for a little while. Thanks to PNC coming in and sponsoring and rescuing, I guess and reviving this thing, now I have a chance to play a tournament with my son.   I hope I'll get a chance to play with my other son because he plays golf, too.
So we'll make this a whole family affair.   The schedule was a little tricky with Connor having final exams this week and Regan next week.   Connor got the nod being the oldest.
It was something that entered my mind right away.   Within a day or so of winning my first major I realized I got a chance to play in the father‑son now. 

Q.   Connor, just tell me about the way your week has been.   Finals week is never easy, and you've got to set aside your engineering final and get ready for this?
CONNOR CINK:   Wednesday morning I had a final, and as soon as that was done, drove home, got on a plane, and came here.   All week or before we came out here I was kind of worried that I would be stressed with the finals and then stress with the golf.
This has been the exact opposite of that.   It's been the biggest relief.   I've had a lot of fun.   It's been some of the best memories.   I've met a lot of great people.   I don't know.   It's been wonderful. 
THE MODERATOR:   Anything else? 

Q.   Stewart, how would you describe your son's game compared to where you were at this stage of your life?
STEWART CINK:   You can't really compare because I was already pretty much a full‑time golfer by the time I was 20.   I was a sophomore at Georgia Tech on a full scholarship.   I was an all‑American.   I was practicing and playing every day. 
He's not.   I mean, golf is so far from his radar screen when he's at Clemson or home.   He doesn't play 10 times a his.   Less than that.   5 to 10 times.
When he does, it's just hit and giggle and have fun.   He is talented and such an athlete that he can tighten the screws when he needs to.   I saw that today.   It was pretty cool out there watching him with some difficult shots pull them off.
I don't know.   Without speaking for him‑‑ I'm going to anyway‑‑ I think he probably surprised himself out there a little bit today, and it was fun to watch.
CONNOR CINK:   Oh, yeah.   Helps having a good teacher. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT