BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 9, 2000
Matt Doherty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







COACH DOHERTY: Well, we gave it a shot. We gave it a run, and came up against, you
know, one of the best -- the best team in the league. We were right there. The kids could
have gave up and they didn't, and we're all fortunate and blessed to be working at a great
university with great kids. And I'm real proud of them. You've got to give Miami a lot of
credit, and I think the fact that we didn't, you know, we played yesterday in a physical,
emotional game, drained our tanks a little bit and we weren't as active, especially
defensively, as I would have liked. We gave them too many easy opportunities and you can't
do that to a good team. So, you know, I knew that would be a factor and try to fight it as
best you can, but I think that, you know, that was a factor in the game. But besides that,
if Miami's 23rd ranked team in the country, maybe we're 23 and a half and we hope that we
get invited to the NCAA Tournament. But if we don't, we'll gladly accept a bid to New York
and NIT and try to make a run at coming back here. So I'm proud of the team. I feel for
the guys because we're hurting right now.

Q. Matt, did you think that the nature of the game in terms of its physical nature kind
of maybe got, you know, Troy a little frustrated at times?

COACH DOHERTY: I think Troy was frustrated. I think we were all a little frustrated but
Troy did a real good job of calming down. I took him out one time because I felt them get
frustrated. It's hard, does anybody here like to have someone tell them calm down when
you're frustrated? That makes it worse sometimes, so you try to back off and then after a
couple of seconds say, "hey, you need to calm down." We've had some experiences
this year like at Rutgers where, you know, he's learned from those experiences where the
frustration doesn't help. I thought he did an excellent job of calming down and coming out
and playing with poise the end of the game. It was a very physical game, a lot of banging
going on. A lot of elbows being thrown and things like that. So I was real pleased with
his poise. He's really matured.

Q. Coach, can you explain the circumstances surrounding the technical, how do you feel?
What part of the game did it play?

COACH DOHERTY: To be honest with you, I forget what the call was about. All I know it
was, it was that call where there was a screen. I'll watch the tape, if I was wrong, I'll
apologize. If I wasn't, I'll send a videotape to the direct -- 

Q. You mean the technical? (inaudible) there was a kick and a blocking --

COACH DOHERTY: I don't remember. But it was over the pick. That's what got me fired up.
That pick, I didn't agree with it, but, you know, Ted Valentine's a darn good official.
I've been wrong maybe once before. (Laughter.) But I'll look at the tape and if I feel
like I was right, I'll send it to the Director of Officiating. If I was wrong, I'll
apologize. That's part of the game. We're both looking at things and we all got opinions.
But he's one of the best officials in the league, in the country. I'll gladly take him any
game I got. All three officials are good officials and good guys. I like to be able to
talk to officials and communicate with them. He talked to me after that and he doesn't
hold a grudge. So... I thought we needed a spark, too, to be honest with you. There were
some things going wrong, going against us. I didn't mind getting a technical, to be honest
with you. It was their ball and I thought we needed something to fire us up and maybe the
building up.

Q. Matt, your thoughts as your team worked the ball into Troy's hands for that last
shot.

COACH DOHERTY: Yeah, they got -- we fouled. Front end of a one and one, they're up one.
So I'm assuming he's going to make both. I probably should have maybe had two plays in,
one if he makes both, one if he doesn't. But in hindsight, I still think that's a good
play. Troy wasn't getting a whole lot around the basket against them, so we got our best
player, an open three-pointer, which he -- I don't know what his stats are lately in the
three-point range, but I'll take him against -- I'll take him against anybody in the
league in terms of three-point shooters. I don't think Coach Hamilton was real comfortable
when he saw Troy spotting up for an open three. But so, you know, the play before, I don't
know how many plays before, Matt Carroll has an open three. We got two of our best
shooters with open looks. That's all you can ask for. They're not always going to go down.
At the end I was frustrated that maybe I didn't have somebody screen on the ball to give
Harold an opening to throw the pass. But they're a good defensive team. They're
experienced, so my hat's off to them.

Q. Coach, can you talk about Miami's defense on Troy? They held him in the three games,
14, 14 and 15. What did they do that other teams have not been able to do?

COACH DOHERTY: One, they're experienced. Two, they're athletic and long. And, you know,
thick. Wimbley's thick, Bland's thick, they've got quick feet. Tyler's not thick, but he's
quick and he's long. Bland's really good off of cheating off the other post player and
getting into Troy's way and then getting back to his man. He does a very good job of that.
I think Jennings sets the tone. All of a sudden with Jennings -- Jennings, to me, was --
and Etan Thomas were the two best defensive players in the league. Jennings sets the tone
out front. All of a sudden you have a 6'3", 6'4" guard pressuring the ball. He's
got long arms, quick feet, the vision of your entry pass isn't as good. You're starting
your offense out a little bit farther. They have a good defensive team from point guard to
five-man.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT