BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 8, 2000
Jimmy Dillon
Matt Doherty
Troy Murphy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







COACH DOHERTY: It was a great win for us. We were embarrassed at Rutgers, about a month
and a half ago, and we had a lot to prove to ourselves and I guess to other people that we
could play against the tough physical man-to-man defensive team. I have a lot of respect
for Kevin and his players. They play hard. They're one of the best defensive teams we
faced. To come into the Garden, the Big East tournament and play like we did, I'm proud of
these kids. And, you know, these guys are great. Troy was offered an opportunity to talk
on ESPN after the game, and he didn't want to. He wanted to be in the locker room with his
teammates. That's the kind of group of guys we have here and I'm very proud to be
associated with them.

Q. After starting so well in Georgetown, how important was it for this team to carry
over that start that you had tonight?

COACH DOHERTY: I think that's probably the biggest thing, you know, is starting out. We
talked about being the aggressor and jumping out early and we've done that the last two
games. To set a tone. Because I want to thank a sports writer, I don't know who it was,
that said we were soft and stuff like that. You know, times -- last Rutgers game, we were
soft. We watched that tape and we had soft screens and they were quick to the loose balls.
You know, you challenge our manhood a little bit and I think our kids responded. We wanted
to be the aggressor. We did a good job. You look at the rebounding job we did, did a good
job on the boards, shot over 50 percent from the field. So I thought our kids showed a lot
of toughness.

Q. Troy, you tried not say too much before the game. Now that it's over, what does it
mean to you?

TROY MURPHY: It means a lot. It means a lot to the program. We have never had a win in
the Big East tournament, so, you know, it's a step forward for us and it was a great team
win tonight. And, you know, I just had -- I had a great time playing tonight with these
guys and playing for Coach.

Q. Coach, you obviously had some real quality wins this year against some good
opponents but a tough schedule. Do you think you have enough right now to go in the
tournament? There's a lot of basketball to be played this weekend. Is there enough for you
to get to the NCAA right now?

COACH DOHERTY: We're in a tournament right now that's pretty important to us. I think
we ought to focus on that and our next opponent. We can't control, who knows? I'd like to
get inside that war room and figure out what they look at and all that stuff. It's hard.
So much of it is out of your control. What is in our control is preparing for Miami and
playing hard and hopefully putting ourselves in a position to win a basketball game. If we
do that, then maybe the committee can't, you know, turn us down. But if we start thinking
about the tournament, I think I've made a mistake before the profits came, I started
talking too much about the NCAA tournament and I think that was not the right thing to do.
We're just worrying about enjoying this win till midnight and then preparing for the Miami
Hurricanes, which is obviously one of the best teams in the league.

Q. Troy, did you learn something from that last Rutgers game that you kind of carried
through the rest of the year and into tonight's game?

TROY MURPHY: I learned, you know, I think the last time I made it too much of, you
know, playing against Rutgers, going out there and playing against, you know, the whole
team and trying to do everything, you know. They really got to me, you know, playing
there. But I mean today I just tried to focus on the game plan. I think that a lot of
times I tried forcing shots the last game and that got us out of our offense. If I take a
bad shot, guys aren't ready to rebound and it leads to a fast break basket. I stuck to
Coach's game plan today and executed the offense.

Q. Coach, Troy, can you guys talk about your matchup tomorrow with Miami?

COACH DOHERTY: Matchup tomorrow with Miami, they again might be the best defensive team
we face this year. We had a 12 or 14-point lead in the second half at Miami, and they
really tightened up the screws defensively. We really collapsed in our half-court
execution. I hope that our half-court execution is better today than it was then and will
even be better tomorrow. Then they also didn't have Hemsley, and that was to our advantage
obviously. He's one of the best players in the league as well. So it's a challenge. I mean
they're the cochamps of the league. So we have nothing to lose really. We go out there,
play hard, play smart, play together and hopefully at the end we're in the position to win
a game.

Q. Coach, they only had a couple of field goals the last 13 minutes of the first half.
Can you talk about your defense?

COACH DOHERTY: The question was about the field goals, they only had a couple down the
stretch and our defense. A lot of times when teams hit threes, you talk about why you
still in the zone? I think Temple plays zone. They're a pretty good team. I'm not saying
our zone is as good as Temple's, but we have done some good adjustments, I think, in our
zone to contest shooters and, you know, they have some quickness and that's to their
advantage. Our advantage is our size and our defensive rebounding with Troy getting 12
defensive rebounds. So I also don't want to get our guys in foul trouble. That's why we
play zone, but that didn't seem to be the case tonight. So I thought we were pretty good
at widening our zone, showing out on ball screen out front so Billet could just come off
and shoot. Our guys were active and communicated pretty well.

Q. Can you talk about being a senior and having watched this team progressed to this
point?

JIMMY DILLON: It's been exciting for me throughout the whole year, even during the
preseason. I just got a sense that we had something special this year. Our togetherness
and, you know, even with the coaches, it just seemed like a lot of things were clicking
this year that hadn't in the past. So coming to the Garden, I mean I've never been more
excited to play in a game, and, you know, it was a good motivator that we got Rutgers as a
draw and, you know, we got embarrassed down there and, you know, gave us a little sense of
payback here. And I think everybody on the team got up for it. It was really exciting to
see the team progress through the year.

Q. Troy, the first Rutgers game seemed like with the emotion that it maybe got you off
your game tonight. Tonight you seemed to be enjoying it. I saw you talking with guys on
the baseline. Did you enjoy the environment tonight?

TROY MURPHY: Yeah, I had a really great time playing tonight. I think last time I let
it bother me. It got to me and today I really, you know, Coach talked to me before the
game, before we left to come out here just to play my game. And, you know, that's what I
tried to do tonight. You know, a bunch of guys knocked down shots. We had a great team win
tonight.

Q. What were the guys on the baseline saying to you?

TROY MURPHY: I don't really remember. I don't know.

Q. Troy, the blood on the back of your jersey, did you bleed? Did somebody bleed? Talk
about how rough it is tonight, how much you're used to seeing that?

TROY MURPHY: I'm really not sure, you know, whose blood it was or anything like that.
It was on my back. Yeah, I have bumps and bruises throughout the game, all of a sudden the
ref comes up to you and tells you you have blood on your jersey. Every game has been
physical throughout this entire Big East season. I don't expect it to be any different in
the tournament. You just have to go, make your cuts and expect to get hit. That's the way
the Big East is.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT