THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 19, 1995
Karsten Braasch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Did you realize immediately that there was a chance to
do it at the beginning of the match?

 KARSTEN BRAASCH:  I knew it even when even before I went out
on court because I played him two years ago and there I thought
I had a chance and I am playing better than I did two years ago,
so I knew I have a good chance.

 Q.  Karsten, your mechanics are so much different from other
players.  Where did you learn the unusual mechanics of your service
motion, for example?

 KARSTEN BRAASCH:  I don't know.  It just developed.  I don't
think anybody told me to serve that way or anything like it. 
It is just normal development.  I mean, I got taught tennis the
way probably everybody got taught tennis and it is just normal
development.  I mean, Edberg is playing different from Becker,
from Stich, from me, from anybody.  You will never find two guys
who serve the same.

 Q.  Well, definitely won't find another person that serves
like you do.  Have coaches tried to coach you out of that serve
into a more traditional looking serve?

 KARSTEN BRAASCH:  No, because I was serving pretty well all the
time and so nobody tried to change it.  As long as it is working,
there is no need to change.

 Q.  Stefan was in here a few moments ago described your game
as "weird."  Is that an insult or is that a compliment
even?

 KARSTEN BRAASCH:  You got to ask Stefan that.   I mean, for me
it doesn't matter as long as I win.

 Q.  When you came into this tournament last year, your ranking
had gone to in the '30s, I guess you were playing well?

 KARSTEN BRAASCH:  47, 48 I was last year.

 Q.  What has happened in the last year that your ranking has
gone down?

 KARSTEN BRAASCH:  Just couldn't defend the points I did beginning
of last year and that is why my ranking dropped.  I didn't play
well.  That is why you lose points; that is why your ranking is
dropping; simple as that.

 Q.  Are these weather conditions made for your game, the slice,
the spin, the short angles, the lobs?

 KARSTEN BRAASCH:  I don't know.  I mean, I can play under every
weather condition, so it doesn't make a difference to me whether
it is raining or snowing or sunshine out there.

      End of FastScripts....  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT