CFP NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP
January 5, 2019
Trevor Lawrence
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TREVOR LAWRENCE: A little different than being at Clemson.  Our Media Day at Clemson is a little different.  It's just cool, really cool experience just to get to do all this stuff.  This is pretty awesome.   
 Q.  The ability to play (indiscernible), tell me about the guys that make that happen.  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I think it's everyone, as far as -- some of those plays are run plays, too, so we've got our O-line.  They've had a great year, they've been awesome.  They've helped with that.  And then also protection in the passing game.  And our receivers have just made crazy plays all year long, so those guys are just really reliable and great players.   
 Q.  A lot of people are amazed by your unflappability, a guy who just turned 19.  Where does that come from?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, I've said a few times, it's my faith and my family, just the way I was brought up, and then my faith.  No moment is too big.  I feel like if I just keep myself grounded, I feel like I was made for moments like this and opportunities like these.   
 Q.  What do you think is going to be more important against Alabama, throwing the ball down the field or (indiscernible)?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I mean, just the same thing as every week, just executing and everyone knowing what they're doing on the same page, and as long as we execute and take care of the ball, we'll be fine.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I think the biggest thing is just keeping the team first.  I think that's one thing.  I think all the quarterbacks here at Clemson since I've been here have done that, and as long as you keep that first and just -- it's a team game.  You come here to play with the team and win championships and do all those things.  It's not an individual game, so I think that's the biggest thing, when you go into situations like this.  That's all I really have to say about that is just don't put yourself above the team.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I mean, I haven't really had much time just to like watch his game because I'm watching the defense more when we're watching film and stuff like that.  But he's a great player, obviously.  They're similar to us in some ways as far as explosive plays.  They've got some great playmakers, too.  Those things are definitely similar, and he's an awesome player for sure.   
 Q.  When you were in high school last year, did you watch this championship game?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, yeah, I watched all of them.   
 Q.  What did you think about (indiscernible)?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, last year I was watching the Clemson-Alabama game, and I was just dreaming of playing in that game hopefully this year.  I didn't really know how it was going to work out.  I knew I would eventually, but I didn't really know kind of when, and I was just kind of dreaming of getting that opportunity, so it's cool to see how everything unfolded.   
 Q.  For those who weren't part of the process (indiscernible)?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Probably Georgia and Clemson were my last schools.   
 Q.  And what did it for you?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Just the culture, the atmosphere.  Just felt like I had a better relationship with everyone involved in the program, and it was a place where I felt like I could grow the most, just personally and football-wise, too.   
 Q.  When you watch Alabama on film, what stands out to you?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I mean, they're just a great defense.  They're definitely the best defense we've seen up to this point for sure, and they fly around, they're well-coached, and they're physical.  Those are the biggest things I would say.   
 Q.  What's been the biggest jump for you in terms of adjusting from high school to college?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I would say just speed of the game, obviously, is a big deal going from high school to college.  I'm kind of getting used to that by now, but that's probably the biggest thing.   
 Q.  Do you feel like a freshman still?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I mean, yeah, kind of just because I'm new to all these experiences and getting to experience all these things for the first time, definitely feel like a freshman still, but when I'm out there, I feel like it's been a long year and I've grown a ton.   
 Q.  You came out of high school possibly rated the No. 1 quarterback; how do you put that aside now --  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I honestly don't really care about all that stuff.  I'm just trying to do what I can in the moment.  I know I have at least a few more years of college left, so I'm not really worried about all that stuff, and I've got time just to be in college and just have fun and be with my teammates and just enjoy every moment.  That's what I'm trying to do.   
 Q.  The success you've had this year, does it surprise you?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Not really.  I think you get what you work for in a lot of senses, and I feel like this team and me, we've worked pretty hard to get to this moment, so not surprised, but it is kind of surreal to be in this moment.   
 Q.  How many family members are coming to the game?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I'll have -- I think I'll have around eight or so out here.   
 Q.  What does it mean to have the chance to play in this game?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: It means a lot, obviously.  I don't think it's a big deal to be a freshman, just to have an opportunity to win a National Championship, that's the biggest thing, and just to be a part in these seniors' journey, like I've talked about the guys on the team, they've worked so hard, and just kind of how they've laid the path and set an example, it's cool to get to play with guys like that, and obviously to have this opportunity as such a young guy really just kind of lays the foundation for the rest of my career here.   
 Q.  What did you do to grow your hair?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Not much really.  I had really short hair my freshman year, and then I just decided to grow it out, and it kind of stuck, so I just left it.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, obviously we were teammates and he saw kind of -- went through that awkward stage of trying to grow it out, so he saw some rough times for the hair.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Every time I meet with the media, I probably get at least two or three questions about it, so it's a lot.  And then obviously out in public, get a lot of that, too.   
 Q.  Is there anybody (indiscernible)?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Probably Cade, Cade Stewart.  He's got a nice mullet.  You guys should go talk to him.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I think he's just been such a great example, just his whole career, just the way he plays, how mentally sharp he is just with everything going on, how he leads those guys when he was playing.  Just the way he carried himself is something I look up to, and obviously as a great player that's something to kind of strive for.   
 Q.  Did you talk to him on the phone?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, we did a few weeks ago, yeah.   
 Q.  What did he say?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: We just talked.  Just asked him -- got to pick his brain a little bit, so it was good.   
 Q.  Playing against Alabama on the national stage, there's a lot of pressure that comes with that (indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, obviously it's the biggest game of the year because it's the next one and it's the National Championship, so I think just staying focused and not letting all the noise from the outside get in.  We've got a goal and we know what we want to do, and I feel like if we just do what we've done all year, we're going to be fine.  We've just got to keep working, and obviously they're a great team, like you said, but we're just excited for the opportunity.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, it is crazy, walking in here.  It's pretty awesome, but no, we're just trying to, like I said, just stay focused and finish the right way.   
 Q.  You talked about your friendship (indiscernible) it's a competition but you're friends, too.  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, I mean, it was kind of similar in some ways to the competition when I came to Clemson, too.  But no, just freshman year he was a junior, and I came in and didn't really know much, how everything was going to happen.  Just wanted to come in and work, kind of the same way I did here.  Me and him grew pretty close throughout all that, and then whenever they gave me the starting position, he moved to tight end and obviously it worked out pretty well for him going to Alabama.  I think through that, he grew a ton.  I did, too, but just kind of him realizing -- I think it made him so much more of a team player, and like I said before, he's one of the hardest working guys I know, and just a great friend.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  Was that kind of your plan?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, I just don't -- that's just never been who I was, just to act like that.  That was never really a thought just because that's not who I am.  But yeah, I think it is important to be really intentional, especially coming to a new place as a young guy, and just really earn the respect and stuff -- I just want to earn everything I have.  I don't ever want to be given anything, and I think that's the cool thing about my whole experience here is just I feel like I've earned the opportunity to be in this situation, and obviously everyone else on the team has worked extremely hard to get here, so just proud of everyone.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, we would work, I think, almost after every practice, just throwing balls and trying to get better.  Obviously it was tough for him at first making that transition, but after that, he really just -- he was really just all into that decision, and he was on board, and just put everything he had into being the best player he could be, and I think that's why you see him now playing for Alabama.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) starting the fourth or fifth game.  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, obviously I was excited for the opportunity and feel like I had worked hard for it, but I mean, it wasn't anything -- it wasn't going to change anything.  It didn't change much.  Just getting the opportunity was awesome, and obviously it was kind of a different situation kind of with Kelly there and that situation was tough, but was just excited to get the opportunity.   
 Q.  When you got hurt in the Syracuse game, (indiscernible) the opportunity to play --  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Like how did I get hurt?  I just rolled out and kind of tripped and fell and someone hit me and hurt my head and neck a little bit.   
 Q.  You were in high school last year when you watched Tua (indiscernible).  What was it like for you now watching that?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, it was crazy, just seeing how he handled that mid-game going in and having to kind of play well and giving them a chance to win was just -- it was awesome to see.  It was definitely one of the best games I've seen in a long time.  Just kind of seeing how he did that and how he handled himself was really something cool to see, and obviously faith is a huge thing to him, as well, and I admire that, and seeing how he's handled everything and just kept being himself has been cool.   
 Q.  What would it mean to you guys to go out (indiscernible)?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: It would mean a lot.  Obviously that's my dream.  I want to win a National Championship, and we're so close right now.  We've got -- this opportunity is just -- you don't know if you're going to get this opportunity again.  We're just trying to make the most of it and really enjoy it.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I would say Jeremiah 29:11 is a big one.  I know the plans I have for you, plans for you to prosper, and there's more to that verse, obviously, but that's a huge verse to me, and also Romans 8:28 is a good verse.  If y'all want to look those up, you should go for it.   
 Q.  Were there any NFL quarterbacks you looked up to?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I really -- as far as like admire, that can kind of be on a few different levels, but I really like the way Aaron Rodgers plays, just his style.  I think he's a great player.  I think that's the biggest one I kind of like watching the most right now.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, I mean, at the end of the day, it's just football.  I don't think there's anything -- I'm not going to fear anything.  We've been preparing for this all year, and obviously not me personally, but this team has played them the past three years, so we kind of know what to expect at this point.  I feel like you're right, a lot of teams come into the game with fear, and I think that's a big thing that hurts them is they already think they're going to lose before the game starts.  I think that's a thing that we have is some experience playing in there that will help us, but obviously they're a great team, and it's going to be a tough game, but I feel like we've prepared well.  We're going to keep preparing well, so yeah.   
 Q.  Did you watch them much (indiscernible)?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Not a ton just because we're always playing kind of similar times.  We get to see replays and stuff like that, but we don't get to see them play a full game really.  Obviously we've had some time to watch them on film and break them down and do all that stuff, but yeah, during the season it's tough to watch other teams play.   
 Q.  If the conditions are sloppy Monday, how do you think that's going to affect your offense?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: It's not going to change anything.  We're still going to play how we play.  I think we checked it a little earlier, I think it should be good Monday.  It doesn't look like there's going to be much chance of rain, but if it is, it's not going to change anything for us.  We're going to prepare for whatever circumstances.   
 Q.  Did you play other sports growing up?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, I played baseball and basketball growing up, as well.  I was pretty good.  I was all right.  I quit playing around eighth grade, I think.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: You know, I wouldn't say -- not really just explaining the whole -- what it's like to win one, but just kind of the work it takes to get here, we've talked about that, and just how not to take it for granted because it is really hard to get here.  This team has been able to do it, this is the third time, so it's pretty unbelievable, but it is such a challenge just to get to this point, so we've talked about that.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I'm not worried.  I'm going to respond just like I've carried myself every other game.  It's still just a game, so I'm not really worried about that.   
 Q.  To get back to Syracuse, how have you grown since then?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, just the way I think.  Mentally I became a lot sharper since then and just grown a lot as far as decision making and a lot of little detail stuff, too.  So I think all that stuff, just leadership, everything, all the way around I've grown a lot since then.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, I mean, throughout the year, obviously the playbook gets bigger and bigger, and you're just adding stuff and changing stuff, just all that kind of stuff happens anyways, but also as I've kind of grasped everything better, it's definitely helped.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Some people -- some of my strength coaches call me Stick because I'm so skinny.  And then some people obviously call me Sunshine, but I'm used to that.  A lot of people call me that.   
 Q.  Because of your personality?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: No, from the movie "Remember the Titans."   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I honestly think I felt like that all season.  Being here early enrolling and being on campus since January helped a lot, helped me get ready, and I felt like since the beginning of the season I was ready if I had to run the offense, I was ready.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Not really, honestly.  I grew it out probably four years ago, and it just stuck, and I've just kept it.  Yeah, nothing special really.   
 Q.  What's the biggest thing that you've seen about Alabama's defense?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I mean, they're really fast at every position.  They're well-coached, like I said, and just really physical.  They fly around, and they're a great defense, definitely the best defense we've seen up to this point for sure.  It's going to be a challenge, but just excited to get the opportunity.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: You know, they're a team, they don't really have a lot of weaknesses.  They're a great team, like I said.  But I think it's going to be a good match-up.  We've got a lot of good players, too.  But yeah, there's really not one specific weakness that really sticks out.  They're a great defense.   
 Q.  What made you choose Clemson?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Just the atmosphere, the culture, the people really was the biggest thing, just the people, and I felt like this was the best place for me to grow personally, my faith, and then also football-wise.  I felt like it was just the right spot for me.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: What do you mean?   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, I didn't really -- the conference honestly wasn't a big deal to me, what conference it was in, as long as it was a school I was going to that I felt like was good for me personally and where I was going to have a chance to win a championship.  That was a big thing, as well.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I mean, yeah, that was something I cared about doing, but it really wasn't something that influenced my decision.  I think just wanting to pick somewhere that was the right fit for me was the biggest thing, and then I felt like wherever I went, I could compete and have that chance.  That wasn't really one of my big things wasn't picking the school.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  How are the emotions coming into this game?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I mean, obviously there's still a lot more to come after today.  We've got a few more days before the game, but staying focused is a big thing and not getting distracted by all the stuff around.  Even though there is all this stuff and it's a huge stage and all that, it's still just a game, just a normal game.  Just staying focused, and I think that's the biggest thing.   
 Q.  What's on your wristband?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: The blue one?  It says NEGU, never ever give up.  I got it from the opening back when I was a senior, and that was a thing they did with kids that have cancer that came and visited and we got to interact with them, and it was a really cool thing.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: You know, I think the biggest thing -- not the biggest thing, but an important thing in every game is just trying to start fast and trying to put points on the board as early as you can.  That will be big.  Just not putting our defense in a tough spot.  Keeping good field position will be important.  Just all those things we can do.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: They're really good.  Christian Miller, obviously he's kind of more of a pass rush type guy, but Mack Wilson, Dylan Moses, those guys, they're really physical, great players.  They're really fast sideline to sideline, getting across the field.  Just good players.  That's what you expect in a National Championship game, and then also just on an Alabama defense, that's kind of what you expect at this point.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Just feeling more comfortable, more confident, and obviously just having a better grasp of not just our playbook but also what defenses are doing, being able to recognize stuff quicker and just seeing stuff more holistically.  I've grown a lot in that area.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Maybe not one thing necessarily, but maybe just -- I saw -- I feel like I saw the safety rotation pretty well and just knowing my match-ups was something that I've done a decent job of this year, but I feel like I'm getting better at knowing when to take those chances and seeing the match-ups and stuff like that.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, I mean, they're definitely the best defense we've faced, and I think all three levels, they're really good, D-line, linebacker, secondary.  That's what you expect in a team that made their way to the National Championship, earned their way here.  They're a great defense.  Obviously they're undefeated and they've had a great year, but we're excited to get this opportunity to play them.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I think just kind of what we fought through.  I feel like a lot of teams would have slipped up and maybe lost a game along the way.  Just kind of everything we've gone through, and it's cool just to see that we're still standing and everything we've been through we've fought through, and we've been really resilient, and this team has done a great job of just staying focused.   
 Q.  What teacher made the biggest impact on your life?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: What teacher made the biggest impact on me?  Well, I have two probably.  I had a teacher -- two teachers in high school, Ms. Hahn was one of them, and then Mr. Matheran was another one, just two great people, and I still talk to Ms. Hahn a lot, not as much to Mr. Matheran.  But we had a good relationship, and just the things they taught me and the things they instilled in me definitely still hold weight, and I remember them.  So yep.   
 Q.  Do you believe it only takes one teacher to make an impact in a student's life?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, definitely.  I feel like teaching is such a big thing, and I think some people don't recognize how important it is and how much impact teachers can have in someone's life.  I think if you have one teacher that really relates to you and can help you, it can really make a difference in someone's life for sure.   
 Q.  You're a student-athlete, and a lot of times college football is not as much about the student.  How important is it to you to be a student-athlete?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: It's really important.  A lot of people that watch football games and all that stuff, they don't really see the other side of all week us grinding to get our schoolwork done first and then the football stuff.  So it's tough, but it means a lot to me, and obviously at Clemson it's a great place to be a student-athlete, and we get a lot of support, and it's been awesome, but it's also challenging.  But it's definitely worth the challenge if you excel academically as well as on the field.   
 Q.  What's your favorite sandwich?  What's your game day sandwich?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I don't know about sandwich.  We usually eat steak and mac and cheese and all that stuff on game day.  Usually not sandwiches.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I don't really see any personally, but that started kind of as a joke, but now that the season has gone on, we've gone places and people actually think he's me, so it's funny.  We got off the plane, and there was a youth football team waiting, and Luke got off and they were all yelling my name when he got off, so it's funny.  But yeah.   
 Q.  You're okay with him signing your autograph?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, man, he can take half of the people that come up, and we can split it up, make it a little easier.   
 Q.  Have you ever heard of a TV show called "The Bachelor" or "The Bachelorette"?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah.   
 Q.  If you were ever on the show, when they meet the girl on the first time, they come out of a limousine, what would be your style?  How would you come out of the limousine?  Christian said he would do the splits.  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, Christian probably would.  I would probably be more laid back I would think, but definitely could see Christian doing a split for sure.   
 Q.  If you could take the girl anywhere and do anything, what would be your ideal date?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: That's a tough question.  I don't know.  You say you can go anywhere?   
 Q.  Anywhere.  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Probably go to an island.  That would be pretty cool, go to like a resort type thing.  But that's a tough question.  I'd have to think about that.   
 Q.  There are about 25 to 30 guys on the show; how far do you think you'd go on the show?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I think I'd make it pretty far.   
 Q.  Your teammates have been to this National Championship before.  How much have you asked them about that experience?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: There's a lot of distractions if you let it be a distraction.  There's a lot of stuff going on, and the biggest thing is just staying focused.  All this stuff is cool, but we know what we're here for.  We're here to play the game on Monday, so I think that's the biggest thing, keeping that in mind with everything you do.   
 Q.  What's the biggest challenge as far as Alabama's defense?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I would say just they're a great defense all the way around, best defense we've played, so that's a challenge in itself, but I think every defense has certain things, but they just do a lot of things well.  I think just them as a whole, they're a really good defense, so I think that's the biggest thing.   
 Q.  Any tips on hair growth, on fostering a great head of hair like that?  What's your secret?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Mine just -- I just grew mine out, and it just kind of happened, but shampoo, conditioner sometimes for sure.   
 Q.  How often do you condition?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Probably every few days, two days maybe.  Every two days probably.   
 Q.  Yesterday the sun hit the hair just right, and I had a sneaking suspicion you've had highlights.  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: No, everyone asks me that.  I guess it's just the sun, the sun makes it more blond.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, his junior year?  Yeah, we were in high school for two years ago.  I feel like he was just a big part of my development and just -- he was just a great leader, great friend, and just kind of growing with him, we went through that change where I was the quarterback and he moved to tight end, and us just working together through that, really just trying to make each other better, and I feel like we did that.  We still stay in contact for sure, and after he watched our game, then after they won, he sent me a text, he was like, see you in California.  It's cool to keep that relationship, and we're still good friends.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I would just say watching him work.  He's one of the hardest workers I've played with, and just watching him work just showed me that that's such a good quality to have.  Really if you do that, you just earn your teammates' respect, and I think that's been something I've learned and used now, even now coming to Clemson as a freshman, used that to help me earn respect and just get these guys behind me.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, I think just having some experience and kind of going through it once definitely helped me for this situation.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, that was an important thing to me for sure.  He's bold about it, he's not ashamed of what he believes, and I think he's that way in everything, not just his faith but every value he holds.  He's not ashamed of anything he believes.  So I think that was a big thing, and just how he carries himself.  I wanted to be in a program that was led by a guy like that.   
 Q.  Why?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I feel like that's just important to me.  You see a lot of places people kind of change what they believe to try to get someone or try to get a recruit or do all this stuff, and I feel like it doesn't really matter who it is, he's not going to change no matter the circumstance, and he's not going to change what he believes for a certain situation, and that's important to me.   
 Q.  What aspects of your game (indiscernible) hit on this year?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I would say just mentally all the way around and leadership would be the two biggest things.  Just mentally better decision making, knowing when to do certain things that might not look like a big deal to people just watching the game, but that really can end up being a big deal throughout the course of the game.  I think that's a big thing, other than just being able to lead the guys and like I said, just earn their respect and getting the guys behind me and just growing closer together with all the guys has been a big deal.   
 Q.  Is there a little more pressure (indiscernible)?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Not really.  I feel like it doesn't really matter, but no matter how old you are, you're going gain respect.  I feel like that's a big thing.  Coming in as a highly recruited guy and all that stuff, you might have this kind of look that people might assume about you, they think you're cocky or whatever, so I think just coming in and getting to know the guys and showing them who you are and earning their respect, and your play will speak for itself, I think, and I think that's something these guys have done a good job of just taking me in and really letting me lead them.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I hope, you know.  We'll see on Monday, but no, I think just grateful for this opportunity, and yeah, I hope that's true.  I feel like just kind of watching the tape and all that stuff, obviously I wasn't on the team last year, but there's some stuff that we want to improve in and that we've gotten better at, and I feel like just collectively we're playing really well right now, and that will help us.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: It would be awesome.  Obviously we're here now, and might as well win it.  We came all this way.  But no, this has been one of our goals since the beginning of the season, but it wasn't our most important goal.  Just kind of along the way, it's kind of hitting these other goals to get to this point, and it's cool just to see how everything has unfolded.  It's been a long season, but to see that we're finally here, and everything we've been through, it would mean a lot to get that opportunity.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: You know, I don't feel like it's any different really than anyone else in this situation.  The only difference is I haven't experienced some of these things as far as like being to a playoff and all these things are kind of first-time experiences for me, but other than that, I don't feel like it's any different than a senior.  It's still just football, got to play the game and see what happens.   
 Q.  Why are you so able to handle the pressure?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I think just knowing who you are outside of football, outside of the game you're in, whatever it is.  Like I said, faith is a huge thing that keeps me grounded and knowing that no matter what happens in the game, it's not going to change anything about my future or what my future holds for me.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, he's a great player.  I mean, obviously you've seen the past four years what he's been able to do and how successful he is.  But no, he's been awesome, just being able to play a year with him, I'm really grateful for that, and to get to experience just kind of the person he is has been awesome.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: He's just one of those guys that's been through it all.  He's had the game winning catch for the National Championship.  He's lost the National Championship, done all these things, and he's been through it all, and he's still the same guy through everything, and just a humble guy and a guy you want to be around.   
 Q.  Is it important for you to -- early enrollment, how comfortable did that make you being around the guys?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, I think that's big, just having an extra semester to get to know everyone and to get to work with the guys in the off-season.  That's the biggest thing I'm grateful for is just to have the off-season to work with everyone and feel like I was really there from the end of last season until now has been big.   
 Q.  You were at In-n-Out last night?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, we had like 20 guys in there, but yeah, we had to go, obviously.  We're not from out here, so we don't get In-n-Out a lot, so we had to go check it out.  I got a double double and fries.   
 Q.  Have you been anywhere else?  I know you just got in last night.  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: It's really cool.  I think it's just a different feel, and everything just looks a little different out here, so it's cool to be out here, and obviously the weather is nice.  Better than being in South Carolina in the winter.  It's nice, and it's going to be a cool experience.  We haven't got to do too much yet, but it's been cool.   
 Q.  The championship trophy was in the locker room this week.  What was it like seeing that?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, I mean, just some inspiration, a little bit of extra motivation to go win it.  We've done it once and just to have this opportunity again is really awesome.   
 Q.  Can you tell me a little bit about how you've grown as a quarterback as the season has progressed?  How much more comfortable do you feel now than you did at the beginning of the season?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, I feel a lot more comfortable, just getting a better grasp of the offense and feel like I'm recognizing defenses better and seeing opportunities and just being able to lead the guys, too.  All those different areas I feel like I've grown a lot in.   
 Q.  When you run the football, do you have to be a little bit more cautious with your body when you're playing a team like Alabama?  Do you have to get out of bounds any differently?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Not really.  I mean, if anything, it's just -- it's the last game of the season.  I want to do everything I can to give us the best shot at winning, put us in the best situation.  Obviously you've still got to be careful and be smart, but last game, so just want to leave everything out there.   
 Q.  How do you keep your composure because you always have this even-keeled approach?  How have you been able to maintain that?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Like I've said before, my faith has been the foundation of that, and just knowing that no matter what I do in any situation, it's not going to change anything about my future.  Just knowing that, it gives me a lot of confidence, and just never letting the moment get too big.   
 Q.  To grow elite hair, what's it take?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: You've got to be persistent.  You've got to go through some awkward phases.  A few years ago I had to go through some of those.  Obviously that's the biggest thing.   
 Q.  Pantene or L'oreal, is there a difference?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I use Pantene.   
 Q.  I know you talked earlier this week about (indiscernible) but are there parts of Deshaun's game that you wanted to take into your own?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, just his poise is one thing that was awesome about him, and obviously still he's doing that today in the NFL.  But just kind of how he carried himself, how he handled himself on the biggest stage, National Championships and all that, just how he carried himself was something to look up to for sure.   
 Q.  You're trying to write your own story (indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Like I said, I'm not looking for anything to necessarily set me apart.  When I say write my own story, I'm going to have my own experiences, and I want to do it my own way, and I'm not trying to do anything necessarily that he did or do anything better than he did really.  I just want to go through my career and just have an awesome time here and obviously win a few championships along the way.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: It's really cool just being the same age.  Obviously we knew each other in high school, and I knew he was going to be a great player.  I didn't know necessarily how much impact he would have this early, but he's awesome, and he's done a great job, and he came in the summer and just worked and grinded, and to get these opportunities to see him do that has been really cool.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I mean, there's great players obviously all around the state of Georgia.  I feel like it's one of the best places to play high school football.  Just being there and playing some great teams throughout my four years of high school, I think it helped me a lot.  But either way, I think it kind of starts over when you get to college and you've got a new team and you've got different guys you've got to get used to playing with.  It helps, but it only goes to a certain extent for sure.   
 Q.  Obviously you guys are very high-profile guys (indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, I can't remember when we met, but I think I knew him since my junior year probably, and he was 45 minutes away from me, so right there in Kennesaw.  We worked out a few times together, and we had a good relationship.   
 Q.  Do you follow each other's -- obviously you keep an eye on each other, and the quarterback situation is dynamic all around the country.  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, obviously I saw and heard about the kind of stuff that happened with him going to Ohio State and all that, but being in the season still, trying to win a National Championship, it's kind of -- I'm not really worried about all the other stuff going on.  But definitely wish him the best of luck whatever he decides to do.  I feel that way about a lot of guys.  But yeah, obviously I saw that.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, I mean, you see that with a lot of guys on our team.  Our receiving corps is amazing, and you give them a chance, I feel pretty confident that they're going to catch it.  Sometimes you throw one and it's like, they don't make the one-handed catch, you're like, aww.  But you also sort of expect it because they're so good.  They're just amazing players, and I think it's cool just to see how unselfish they've been all year because obviously we have a ton of great receivers and only one guy can catch the ball at a time, and they've done a great job of encouraging each other, motivating each other, and they're just a good group of guys.   
 Q.  Do you see that as kind of a connection for years to come?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, definitely, definitely.   
 Q.  What did you like about Clemson, and now that you're a part of it, talk about the unique identity that Clemson has.  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, I think that's the cool thing, to be a part of a program like this, I don't think anyone can deny that when you look at Clemson, there's just something different.  You might not be able to explain it, but there's just something different.  I think it's cool how he's built this program, and he's done it his own way.  He doesn't try to copy what anyone else has done.  He's willing to do it the right way, and it took some time, but I feel like now that we're here, you see how it lasts when you build a program the right way, and just the way he's done it and the leadership he's had over everyone involved has been awesome.   
 Q.  Talk about your relationship (indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, we've got a good relationship, and we've been talking a little bit more now recently.  We talked before the season even started, hey, it would be awesome to get to play each other at the end of the year, and now as it's kind of happening and getting closer and it's becoming more of a reality, we started texting and talking, so it's been cool.   
 Q.  What does it say about (indiscernible)?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, it just says really how selfless he is.  He's just a team player, and you won't really meet a guy that loves playing more than he does.  Just loves football.  Just his work ethic and everything, just how he worked in high school, and I'm sure how he's been working in college, too, really sets him apart, and he's just a great teammate.   
 Q.  A year ago (indiscernible)?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, you know, I kind of dreamed to myself, getting this opportunity.  It's been a blessing to be able to have this opportunity.   
 Q.  How did that relationship develop?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, we've been roommates for all the home games, and then me and Kelly were roommates for the away games, and then after Kelly decided to leave, we've been roommates for every game now since then.  Just being roommates every week and really just helping each other, encouraging each other, and he's been -- like I've said, selfless about a lot of the guys on the team.  He's really a great example of that, just kind of how he's encouraged and always been there for me, even though it's a tough situation for him, but he's been ready -- like you saw in the Syracuse game, comes in and ready to perform and playing well whenever his number is called.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Oh, for sure, yeah.  I was in the locker room just hoping he could pull it out, and he did a great job.  I had confidence in him, and I've seen the way he prepares every week, and I was confident in him.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Just his confidence, and I think you see he's not a look at me type guy.  Just always wants to give credit to his teammates, and that's a big thing.  I feel like it's cool to see how he's carried himself and never really changed, even though he obviously won a National Championship last year and he's been through a lot of cool things and he's kind of just stayed himself.   
 Q.  What kind of shampoo do you use?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Pantene.   
 Q.  What's the top three songs that you're listening to before the game to get yourself mentally ready for the game?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Well, I've got a playlist, but "So Will I" is a good one.   
 Q.  By who?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Hillsong.  That's really my main one.  All the other ones I have on shuffle.   
 Q.  Who was your hair inspiration?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I don't really have a hair inspiration.  I just grew it out, not really knowing what I was doing, just wanted to grow my hair out, and it turned into this, and now it's like if I cut my hair, everyone will freak out, so I'm just keeping it right now.   
 Q.  How would you describe (indiscernible)?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I'd say just calm, relaxed.  Two things I try to be.  And I feel like that's just kind of who I am.   
 Q.  Recently you've shown more personality.  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, I do -- obviously not as much in front of cameras and being asked all these questions and stuff, but she said that answering questions I guess I sound kind of monotone and all that, so maybe I should work on that.  But yeah.   
 Q.  Do you know your hair has a Twitter account?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I've heard, yeah.  I think someone made that even when I was in high school, so it's been around for a little bit.  But it's starting to get noticed.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I think Cade is definitely in the running, and then people confuse me and Luke, which is kind of crazy.  I don't see the similarities, but yeah, they think he's me all the time.  But yeah, I think Cade has got a shot at best hair for sure.   
 Q.  Big stage for you, big opportunity.  What type of feelings do you have, and going to bed at night (indiscernible)?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Just excited.  I think it's just crazy to have this opportunity, especially as a freshman.  It's just awesome, and then like I said before, you just never know when you're going to get another shot like this.  You might not.  Just trying to soak everything up and enjoy it with these guys.   
 Q.  I know you haven't spent a lot of time thinking about records and things like that, but you have the opportunity to be just the second true freshman in history to win a National Championship.  Are you aware of that, or when did you become aware of that?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, someone just kind of mentioned it a second ago, they asked me a question.  But I think just the biggest thing is just getting the opportunity to win a National Championship.  Doesn't really matter how old you are.  It's really a once in a lifetime opportunity.  Obviously this team has gotten a few opportunities to do it, but that's just not the norm.  So I feel like just trying to soak it all up and enjoy it is really what I'm focused on.   
 Q.  Justin had such a big first half in the Cotton Bowl last week.  Do you feel like he's getting better by the week?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I mean, you see obviously his athletic ability has always been there.  He's been like that since he came in, but just understanding the offense more, knowing -- just knowing what to do a little bit more and getting that understanding throughout the year, he's gotten a lot better.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you guys have more chemistry now than you did early in the season as far as your anticipation and knowing where he's going to be?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, I feel like with every player, every receiver, O-line, all that stuff, that grows throughout the year.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) what about his game has impressed you?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I feel like one thing is how he leads.  I feel like he's a great leader and just how he carries himself is a big thing.  And obviously he's so mentally sharp and knows what everyone is doing, and watching him in the NFL, he's making checks and getting in the right play in the right situation.  Just seeing him do all that stuff was really cool as a kid, being able to watch that.   
 Q.  What has allowed you to have so much confidence?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I've said it a few times, just my faith.  That's what keeps me grounded.  Knowing no matter what the moment is, it's not going to change anything.  No matter what I do in the moment, it's not going to change anything about my future, and I think that's the biggest thing that gives me confidence.   
 Q.  Have you reached out to each other (indiscernible) before his first NFL playoff start?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, I'm not sure.  I think we've got some stuff that we have to do, some team stuff.  But hopefully we'll get a chance to watch a little bit of it.  But no, we haven't got a chance to talk.  Obviously he's been busy and we've been busy preparing for this, but yeah, maybe we'll get to talk a little bit before the game, who knows.   
 Q.  What stands out on that journey for you?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I think just the growth all the way around, just me personally and then obviously just the team, as well.  We've just grown so much, gone through a lot of things, and it's just really made us better in the end.  Being able to go through that stuff and still be standing is pretty remarkable.   
 Q.  Monday night obviously you want to win a National Championship, but what do you want from your game to stand out the most?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: You know, I'm not really -- to be honest, I'm not really worried about stands out about my game, as long as I play well enough to give us a chance to win it, win the game.  That's all I really care about.  I feel like we have that opportunity, and just excited to be able to have the opportunity to play in this game.   
 Q.  Have you ever had a chance to talk to (indiscernible)?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, we talked a little bit a few weeks ago on the phone, just got to pick his brain about just a lot of different things, so yeah, it was really good to hear from him.   
 Q.  What was it like to be able to talk to him?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, it was really cool.  He's just been through so much, has so much experience.  And he started as a freshman, too, obviously, so just kind of talking to him about that stuff and leadership and all that, it was really helpful.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Yeah, it's just kind of surreal how I feel like life just goes so fast.  A few years ago I was just a kid watching him, and then now just to be given this opportunity and being able to talk to him on the phone and stuff like that is really cool.   
 Q.  What's the biggest thing you took away from that conversation?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Just hearing the stuff he did and how hard he worked and how he just tried to perfect his craft is definitely something I want to try to do.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I don't even remember, to be honest.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: It was just a regular conversation, to be honest with you.  We talked about the situation a little bit, and he just gave me a little bit of confidence and just saying that he had my back, regardless of what happens, so that helped, and obviously he's just been a great teammate.   
 Q.  What's that mean for you as a freshman, the guy who's maybe the most respected guy on the team to say, let's talk?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: It means a lot.  It just shows how invested he is in the team and how much he's willing to help whoever needs it.  Just how much support he's given me and really the whole team has been awesome.   
 Q.  10 minutes before the game, what do you have on your playlist to make sure your mind is right?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I have a little Christian playlist I play, and usually just play that just to calm me down a little bit and just get ready to play, relax.   
 Q.  10 minutes before the game, what is Dabo going to have on his playlist to make sure his mind is right?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I don't know, there's no telling.  Either some Christian or some heavy metal, one of those two.  I don't know.   
 Q.  There's been a lot of talk over the past few days about Alabama versus Clemson (indiscernible) two best teams in college football over the past four years.  What are your general thoughts on that?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: Just like you said, it doesn't really matter who it is.  The two best teams I feel like should play in the championship, and both of these two teams have earned that opportunity to say they're the two best teams and get the opportunity to play the National Championship.   
 Q.  I feel like this is the best Alabama offense I've seen.  They switched to you at quarterback for a reason.  What do you feel you have to do offensively that gives your team the best opportunity on Monday night?  
TREVOR LAWRENCE: I think just be who we've been all year, stick to what we've been doing, and just execute and take care of the ball, and I feel like we'll be fine.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT