TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
October 31, 2015
Jaco Van Zyl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  2-under today and tied for the lead.  Give us an idea of your feelings on your performance?  
JACO VAN ZYL: Kind of a slow day out there today.  Played nicely.  Did what I needed to do on some holes and let a couple opportunities slip on the back nine.   
 Q.  Pace of play was also pretty slow out there.  Was that a bit of a factor?  It was tough to get going.  
JACO VAN ZYL: Yeah, it was.  We had our fair share on 10, 11, 12 and playing catch up from there on.  Like you said, pace of play was really slow out there.   
 Q.  Were you surprised with the overall scoring and that nobody made a push and went past you?  
JACO VAN ZYL: There was some good play out there.  If you're on your game and you hit it where you needed to be, a low one out there today.   
 Q.  With 13 wins on the Sunshine Tour and no wins as yet on The European Tour and some big names breathing down your neck.  How are you going to deal with that?  
JACO VAN ZYL: Same as I deal with it every day.  One shot at a time and see what the golfing gods have got in store for tomorrow.   
 Q.  What will you do to keep it out of your mind tonight?  
JACO VAN ZYL: Yeah, watch a couple of episodes of Bones.  Seems to help.   
 Q.  You were 2-under 70.  Satisfied with your play today?  
JACO VAN ZYL: I played nicely the first nine holes, not too many mistakes.  Had quite a few chances coming in on the back nine and let a couple slip through.  Yeah, I had quite a few opportunities.   
 Q.  How would you rate your play since that Thursday 61?  
JACO VAN ZYL: I mean, obviously Thursday was something special.  Didn't miss any shots and the putter was really hot.  The last two days, been hitting it nicely.  Can't really complain there.   
 Q.  You're playing tomorrow with a former champion of this event and also the No. 1 European player, No. 1 guy in The Race to Dubai, Rory McIlroy.  With that being said, what are you committed to tomorrow in that final group on that final day?  
JACO VAN ZYL: I mean, at the end of the day, it's an honor to be in this position.  I'll go out there and see what the golfing gods have got in score.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT