TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
October 30, 2015
Jaco Van Zyl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Going back to Thursday, how special was your 61?  
JACO VAN ZYL: That was really good fun.  Just one of those rounds where you pretty much hit every target and the putter was nice and warm.   
 Q.  When you come into the Final Series like you have done, how exciting is it for you that there's so much on offer and you can make a big, big jump on where you are in The Race to Dubai?  
JACO VAN ZYL: Well, obviously it's a nice way to finish off the season.  It's a lot of hard work to be in this position, and it obviously all boils down to the last four.   
 Q.  How tough was it following that 61?  
JACO VAN ZYL: I got off to a nice start today.  Got it to if you are under par through the first eight holes and I felt really comfortable out there and played nicely.  Unfortunately a couple of loose shots on the back nine and I shot 1-over par.   
 Q.  Is it fun to be leading all these big names behind you?  
JACO VAN ZYL: Yeah, it's always good fun.  That's why we practice hours and hours and hours to be in this position.  It's just nice to be able to enjoy it.   
 Q.  Coming off that fantastic 61 yesterday, not quite the number today but still a red number on your card.  How would you compare today's round to yesterday?  
JACO VAN ZYL: Hit it really nicely the first nine holes.  Obviously didn't make as many putts as I did yesterday.  And unfortunately a couple of loose ones coming in, and fortunately, unfortunately, resulted in a 69.   
 Q.  Your first 12 holes were knife under and your last six you were 2-over.  What do you think the difference was there?  
JACO VAN ZYL: Yeah, we just turned into the breeze.  Misjudged the wind a little bit.  Hit it in the water unfortunately and resulted in a bogey.   
Then 5, 6, 7, 8, four good holes, playing into the breeze, hitting a lot of long irons in there.  Tough play, sloppy greens; going through there level par is not too bad, and just unfortunately a really bad shot on 8.   
 Q.  Is it safe to say you didn't feel as comfortable in the latter part of your round today as you did with the rest of your play here this week?  
JACO VAN ZYL: Yeah, surprisingly enough, not too anxious out there.  Really enjoyed the moment.  Took every shot as it came and every opportunity when it was there.   
 Q.  Heading into the weekend, at least in the mix.  What's your mentality now at the halfway point?  
JACO VAN ZYL: It's a field of quality players and they have all played nicely to be here at the end of the day.  To be in this position is really an honour, and hopefully we can stay in the mix till the last nine holes on Sunday.   
 Q.  Every player that there's ever been has said it's hard to follow up a low one with another one.  What your thoughts, particularly when you start as efficiently as you did today?  
JACO VAN ZYL: Like I said yesterday, it was really nice to shoot 61.  It all depends on what the golfing gods have got in store for today.  Hopeful they are doing to dish out another one first couple of holes, and like they do best, they take a couple back towards the end.   
 Q.  Did you just feel it was clean sailing, very easy early on?  
JACO VAN ZYL: No, not really.  Like I said yesterday, it's a great golf course.  I honestly don't think it's all that easy.  But yeah, again, the first nine holes, I hit quality shots, making a couple of putts.  Just went a little bit quiet on the back nine.   
 Q.  I appreciate when it was all going your way it wasn't even the halfway stage.  Were you aware of being at one stage seven strokes clear of the field?  
JACO VAN ZYL: Yeah, I had a quick look just being on the first green there.  It's a little bit surreal.  Really enjoyable but surreal, but it was really good fun.   
 Q.  Is that all the more surreal when you consider it's an elite field and all the players that you're up against?  
JACO VAN ZYL: Yeah, it's 78 quality players out here, and have all worked hard to be here.  To be a couple of shoots clear at the end of the day, fantastic.   
 Q.  Back to the start of the year, your knees were fixed but you were not quite getting back into the swing of things?  
JACO VAN ZYL: Yeah, lying on the couch for a year, you don't quite know what to expect.  Being in that position that I am in now, after what I went through last year -- I'll take whatever at this stage.   
 Q.  And that's because of very good performances in South Africa, and French Open was nice, as well, wasn't it?  
JACO VAN ZYL: Yeah, I had a couple of good finishes.  Overall pretty consistent year.  I don't think I missed too many cuts.  A couple of highlights back home and obviously the French Open.   
 Q.  How much do you draw on all those victories you've had in the Sunshine Tour in the past?  
JACO VAN ZYL: Winning is winning at the end of the day.  It's just how comfortable you feel and what quality golf that you're playing at the end of the day.  I'm really comfortable where I am right now and hopefully I will be tomorrow morning when I wake up.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT