TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
October 29, 2015
Jaco Van Zyl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JACO VAN ZYL: I played really nicely, and honestly I thought 4-under par around here was a good score.  Got it going early in the round and just kept it going.  It was really good fun.
Q. A score like that, how does that compare with some of the low ones you've had in your career?
JACO VAN ZYL: It's definitely up there.  Had lower scores but obviously not on a calibre-golf course like this.  I would say this is definitely up there.
Q. And this is a good calibre golf course; people will see it as a resort course but it has its trickiness.
JACO VAN ZYL: Greens are really good but there's a lot of grain around the greens.  You hit fairways and greens, it seems very easy.  But as soon as you're a little bit off, you're going to get busy.
Q. Talk us through some of the highlights.  I know there was that eagle early on in the back nine, a whole raft of birdies there after.
JACO VAN ZYL: I made probably about a 60-foot putt on 11, looked over at my caddie, John, and said to him, "I can't remember the last time we made a snake like that."  It was really nice.  Had a really good score and putting round.  Hopefully we can continue.
Q. If you can't remember the last time there was a putt like that, when did you last feel as good about your game as this, perhaps?
JACO VAN ZYL: I've been hitting it really nicely for months now.  Been really struggling on the short game, putting in particular.  I put a little bit more effort and time into it this week, and I think I've found the one.
Q. This is the start of The Final Series for The European Tour; do you approach it in any slightly different manner, or say, one last push until the end of the year?
JACO VAN ZYL: No, Portugal was my last push for the year.  It's been a long, hard year.  These last Final Four events is basically just a nice reward for playing nicely through the year.
Q. It's nice to be involved in an elite field, isn't it?
JACO VAN ZYL: It is.  It's great fun.  Obviously starting out on The European Tour a couple of years ago, you always wonder if you belong.  Working your way up and being a part of one of these events, it's really good.
Q. Which begs the question:  When did you feel you belonged?
JACO VAN ZYL: My first couple of months out here was very scratchy.  Missing cut after cut and lost in a playoff in Morocco.  That kind of planted the seed a little bit and grew a little bit from there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT