ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 4, 2015
Jaco Van Zyl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You were saying recently that you were waiting for your ball striking and putting to come together on the same week.   Looks like they have to us?  
JACO VAN ZYL:   Yeah, today was really a phenomenal round.   Felt really comfortable tee‑to‑green and made a couple of nice ones.  
   
 Q.   You got into the lead with birdies at 10 and 11.   What's going through your mind at that stage?  
JACO VAN ZYL:   Try and get it through 18 holes.   I was in a similar position yesterday, and finished in an ambulance.   It's the sort of golf course where you can't really let your guard down.   You have to stay on top of things.  
   
 Q.   You've had runner‑up finishes on The European Tour and 13 wins on the Sunshine Tour.   How valuable is that experience for tomorrow?  
JACO VAN ZYL:   I think it will play a big role.   End of the day, it's the same situation.   Stage is a lot bigger.   I've been in this position a couple of times.   Hopefully tomorrow we can pull through.   
   
 Q.   It's the round of the week, a 64.   How did you achieve that?   
JACO VAN ZYL:   I just felt really comfortable out there today.   Felt good out there yesterday, as well.   Finished in an ambulance.   But other than that, I played nicely tee‑to‑green.   I hit it really good.   I think I missed one fairway, hit 18 out of 18 greens.   Made a couple of putts when I needed to.   
   
 Q.   Essentially the three days have been very good.   You've been nicely placed on that board all the time and now you find yourself in the lead which must be tasty and nice?  
JACO VAN ZYL:   Yeah, I know, it's going to be good.   I'm really looking forward to tomorrow.   Been in this position a couple of times, so hopefully we can wake up and feel the MoJo and get things done tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Are you feeling that MoJo anyway, because you do seem to be in a good place right now.   
JACO VAN ZYL:   Yeah, I'm in a very comfortable place.   Everything is falling in place in my personal life, so, you know, definitely plays a big role out here.   Everyone is in a happy place and the golf shows it.   
   
 Q.   We've touched on this before but it's been an awkward trek for you to get back to your best, but there's been some signs in more than just the last couple of months?  
JACO VAN ZYL:   Yeah, obviously with surgery on both knees last year, wasn't great.   You just don't quite know what to expect coming out here but luckily got off to a nice start at the beginning of the year and got the confidence building a little bit.   Hit a little bit of a slump but that's golf at the end of the day.  
   
 Q.   And the knees, they are good now?  
JACO VAN ZYL:   Still wear a knee brace.   But hopefully in time it will get better.  
   
 Q.   Sounds stupid to ask after a round of 64, but is it affecting when you are playing and walking the course?  
JACO VAN ZYL:   Not really walking.   It's more the bending down.   I'm a little cautious about it.   You just kind of manage your way around the golf course.  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts then into Sunday?   
JACO VAN ZYL:   Yeah, I'm really looking forward to it.   It's a nice position to be in and hopefully we can get it done tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT