ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 2, 2015
Jaco Van Zyl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JACO VAN ZYL:   The greens are getting a little bit bumpy this afternoon.   The course is firming out big time.   Yeah, just one of those golf courses where there's obviously a couple of holes you can score on, but you can never really let your guard down.

Q.   I bet it's nice to get it done, isn't it?   It's pretty late in the evening?
JACO VAN ZYL:   It is.   That's one of the benefits of playing in Europe.   It stays light here till ten o'clock.   So with a little bit of luck, the last group will get in.

Q.   Did the hour of the day make any difference to the way the course is playing?   You say it's getting bumpy but it's probably a bit cooler?
JACO VAN ZYL:   Yeah, they have got poa annua greens, so it's a grass that grows a lot quicker than normally.   We only finished just after 8.00, so you had them growing the whole day.   It will be a little bit better tomorrow morning.

Q.   Does that mean genuinely you're noticing the change in the speed of the greens and the travel of the ball and things like that? 
JACO VAN ZYL:   Yeah, if you don't hit it close, it's really hard to judge the speed.   I mean, you get one that's bouncing a little bit, it comes up short; get one that rolls out nicely, goes a couple of feet past.   It's not the nicest thing to have those 4‑ or 5‑footers all afternoon.

Q.   Put it in context, we saw you moving sweetly a little while ago and then nothing for the last couple of weeks?
JACO VAN ZYL:   Yeah, got off to a nice start the beginning of the year.   I'm actually playing better golf now than what I did the beginning of the year.   I got off to a nice start last week in Germany.   I just had a bit of a slow weekend. 
But everything is kind of there.   Just one day hitting it nicely and the putter is not behaving, and the next day the putter is behaving and not hitting it as great.   Just waiting for it all to come back in one piece and then hopefully it will be a good week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT