WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 5, 2010
Jaco Van Zyl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  Second Round 66 (-7) 137 Total.

 JACO VAN ZYL: On my back nine I really got things going nicely. I've been playing nicely the whole week. I got stuck in first gear. Yesterday I got it to 3-under par, finished 1-under par, and got off to a rough start this morning. 
 So you know, got off -- birdied 18 and then 1 and 2 and just missed on 3 and it just carried on and then I holed it on 8. Just a nice snowball effect.

 Q. I don't think we'll see many 29s all week here at Sheshan but talk me through the eagle in particular. 
 JACO VAN ZYL: 605-yard par 5. Hit driver down the fairway, landed up to about a hundred yards, which I'm comfortable with. Had 95 in and on 18, I had 96 yards flag. So I hit a good one in there. So it was a nice way to just feed off that one a little bit, and I just hit it absolutely perfect. 

 Q. One bounce and rolled in? 
 JACO VAN ZYL: Yeah, pitched it about pin-high and a meter past and spun back into the hole. So that's quite nice.

 Q. And it's done wonders for not only the scorecard, but your position on the leaderboard. 
 JACO VAN ZYL: Definitely. I've been waiting two years to get into this event. It's a nice opportunity, and I just want to grab it with both hands.

 Q. Waiting two years; explain?
 JACO VAN ZYL: I won the Telkom PGA back home, and that qualified me for the event. Then they said, no, they changed the criteria. So couldn't get in. 
 Then the year after that, I finished fourth on our Money List, Top-5 used to get in; they said, no, they changed the criteria. It's only the top three that gets in now. 
 Yeah, I mean, last year I finished third on our Money List, so you know, just waiting for them to tell me they changed the criteria, but here I am.

 Q. And you thought, this year, I'll go out and win four tournaments, there's not to twist their arm?
 JACO VAN ZYL: Yeah, I've been playing really nicely back home. Last year I won three times. This year I've won four times. This year I had four second place finishes, as well, so playing really nicely back home. Just important to keep the form going into big events.

 Q. You've barely been outside the Top 15 at an event; always up there in the mix?
 JACO VAN ZYL: No, it has been. It has been. But like I say, in the smaller events, even on our Money List, you don't jump too many places so you've got to be really patient and slowly creep up the Money List. But slowly but surely we are getting there.

 Q. Must be so good for confidence when you are playing well week-in and week-out, even coming to an event of this elevated status?
 JACO VAN ZYL: Yeah, definitely. It's obviously a little bit of a mind change. You have to change your mind-set a little bit. 
 For one, you're playing a championship golf course here against a world-class field. So it's just nice to be able to tee it up and be in the position I am in right now. 

 Q. With respect, you won't be a familiar name compared to the majority that are playing here. So what are your feelings when you're standing on that range and they are all alongside? 
 JACO VAN ZYL: I'm sure I must be like most spectators, just in awe. So I mean, I'm sure my wife would love to walk up to 90 per cent of them and ask them for their autograph. I'm trying to restrict her from doing that. 
 But you see the guys, Lee comes and plays out in South Africa quite a bit, so you get to know him a little bit, and some of the South African boys, as well. But the other guys, it's the first time I get to see them hit the golf ball, and it's quite amazing. 

 Q. Plenty could change after this week, but I read that you're ambition at the moment is Q-School for The European Tour in December?
 JACO VAN ZYL: Well, I'm trying to avoid it. I've made a little bit of money back home. I'm on the four co-sanctioned events, so I need a really, really good week this week to avoid Barcelona, because apparently it's about 3 degrees Celsius there at Tour School. And I don't do well in the cold, so I'm going to do everything in my power to avoid that week.

 Q. And the PGA TOUR in the week where you've got through Q-School there before, haven't you?
 JACO VAN ZYL: Yeah, I have. I've got my youngest little one now is just over two months, so Europe is a little bit easier to try and spend a bit more time with them. I'll do that for a couple of years and hopefully I can play my way on to the PGA TOUR next time around and be a little bit more prepared. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT