DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 17, 2016
Jaco Van Zyl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Pleased with 3-under?
JACO VAN ZYL: It was good.  The first couple of holes, we were monitored, so it literally felt like speed golf.  Just tried to get on the green and not make any mistakes.  Felt really foreign, seeing the group in front of us the last three holes.  All in all, I'm satisfied.
Q. 3-under par sounds both good and modest that we might have lower scores around here, so how do you reckon the course is playing?
JACO VAN ZYL: Yeah, it wasn't extremely tough.  Obviously this morning, a lot of moisture in the air.  Just capitalised where I could, and unfortunately I had two 3-putts on the back nine, but just missing it in the wrong spot.  Around these greens, it doesn't take much to 3-putt from there.
Q. I take it it's markedly different than the Gary Player Country Club?
JACO VAN ZYL: Yeah, it is.  The targets are so much bigger than last week.  In saying that, like I say, you could be on the green and still doesn't guarantee you having a par.  So you've got to try and hit fairways and hit quality shots.
Q. Are you feeling the benefit of playing, and playing well last week, to build up to this final event of the season?
JACO VAN ZYL: Yeah, definitely.  Looking at the season, it seems to be working in threes.  This is my third week out, and I seem to be playing nicely my third week out.  Let's hope all goes well.
Q. Is that one of the things, across the course of the season, and maybe across the course of a career, that you need that build up to get the game honed?
JACO VAN ZYL: I'm not known for being the hardest worker in the world, so when I am at home, I'd much rather go fly and spend time with the family.  Takes the first week to get into it, the second week to get comfortable and the third week seems to be the week.
Q. And this is the final one of the season.  I know from your perspective, you've got a lot still to come, but is it kind of one last push European Tour-wise?
JACO VAN ZYL: Yeah, definitely.  You've got to look at it as another event, so whether it's the first one or the last one, we're out here giving it 100 per cent.  Hopefully the result is satisfying.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT