TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 26, 2019
Travis Bruffy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  For you, from your perspective, what do you feel would be a successful game for the offensive line after the first game?  
TRAVIS BRUFFY: Keep the quarterback clean. Keep number 10 up, healthy, taking deep breaths whenever he wants. Just making sure that he's 100 percent coming out of this game. And that's the expectation. We don't want him to get touched. He's become a little bit faster now so maybe we get him out of the pocket on some QB runs, but that's a little offensive secret. Just making sure he stays upright, whether it's 10, 7 or whoever we throw out there, just make sure that they stay clean and that jersey stays pretty.   
 Q.  You've been hitting each other for a couple weeks now, is there a different sort of the excitement level now that you can hit someone else?  
TRAVIS BRUFFY: Absolutely. It's good to look at different jerseys colors every now and then. It gets very mundane hitting Eli Howard and Broderick every single day. They're really good and I get tired of losing all the time. So really looking forward to seeing the Montana State guys out there and just getting a different look, a different defense, different schematics, blitz looks, coverages, just a fresh set of, I guess, defenses to look at and go against this upcoming season, really excited for it.   
 Q.  What do you expect from their defense coming in? I know lower tier football program, but they do have a couple of Washington transfers on that defensive line.  
TRAVIS BRUFFY: Yeah, they have three playing the front seven and lower tier is not something I would use to describe them. They're a very dominant FCS team and they have proven themselves. They are a very diverse defense, they don't just stick in a base front, we expect some four down looks and some 3-2, kind of with a boundary backer walked up type box. We see that kind of often in the Big-12, but they run it a bit differently where they're using that boundary backer like more as like a fitting backer rather than dropping into coverage all the time. But they disguise their coverages very well, they disguise their defenses a lot and that kind of makes it hard for us to determine who is blitzing and who can come and what times and they're a very aggressive defense and just all around a lot of respect for them, from what I've seen on tape. Obviously they are going, coming with a new defensive coordinator so we don't know exactly what we're looking at, but from both film we watched from Washington and Montana State really looking forward to it, could be a good matchup.   
 Q.  Last first game for you, what are the emotions going to be like coming out of the tunnel?  
TRAVIS BRUFFY: I don't know. I'm not sure if I'm going to cry or smile or whatever. But I'm coming out with some juice. I hope there's 60,000 people patch matching my energy, because I'll be being looking up there and feeding off them the entire game. It's a blessing to step out on that field every single time and just knowing that my time is -- honestly, I have six games left doing it -- and the memories I made on that field will last a lifetime, hopefully make six more.   
 Q.  Jordyn shared some team goals defensively for us. Can you share some offense goals that you guys have?  
TRAVIS BRUFFY: First and foremost we want to outscore 12 opponents. After that we want to be the most proficient, prolific offense in the Big-12 and in America. That's something that the Double T lives by is how good our offense can be. That's our expectation is to be the number one in the country, just like we were in previous years, we want to get that back up with this new system, this new addition of the tight end in our offense, and that is, that's the number one goal, everything else will fall under that. We want Alan to throw, to win whatever award. We want Ta'Zhawn to lead the conference in rushing. But we want to be the best offense in the country first and foremost.   
 Q.  You talked about a couple months ago you're learning how in shape you are or not in shape you are, depending upon how you look at it. Are you in the best shape of your life at this point with how fast the offense moves and have you finally gotten comfortable with that scheme?  
TRAVIS BRUFFY: I would say I'm in the best shape of my life. I know this shirt doesn't really fit me very well, but I would say so. This is a new system for me. With the up tempo, I mean, yeah, we have always gone fast, but this is a different type and I can't wait for y'all to see it Saturday. But not even that it's a different approach to conditioning in the off-season, it's more short burst and explosive stuff that has kind of led me to lean out a bit, while still putting on the mass I needed. Yeah, I think I'm in the best shape, but definitely this offense will expose you if you have had that donut over the weekend.   
 Q.  At what point did you finally feel comfortable running this offense?  
TRAVIS BRUFFY: I still don't. I still don't because each week in practice, every day in practice it changes. So we're running from four tempo plays in a row to eight, nine, ten. As long as that number keeps increasing I'm still going to come off and beg for water. I'm not going to become comfortable or complacent in my conditioning and I think that's by design. So I'll be comfortable when it works on Saturdays, but as of now, I can't tell you that, it's not necessarily a walk in the park quite yet.   
 Q.  Where do you think the offensive line is at like right now as a team going into week one and how does it compare to the other past few years?  
TRAVIS BRUFFY: Right, right. So obviously the big change is from Paul leaving last year to our new starting center who is, we're rolling out with -- whoever it may be -- it's, like Dawson has got great reps and he's definitely developed from a kid that was quiet in the locker room to our, that's the heart and soul of our offense right now. So he's developed into a great leader, he's well respected and that's, for a first-year starter, that's not very common. So lacking that leadership that we thought we were going to lose from Paul and replacing it great from Dawson it's unmatched. And the experience that we get out of the other four spots is quite nice as well. So I would say we're not really missing a beat at all, we definitely improved in our shortcomings. Our pass pro's looking very good, our twist pick is looking very good -- I think so and you can tell us on Saturdays and play Monday morning quarterback for us -- but I think we'll run for a lot more yardage, I think we'll protect the ball, or protect the quarterback a lot better. And, yeah, I think we're looking really good coming into the season.   
 Q.  How prepared are you to move around on that offensive line if need be to play another position?  
TRAVIS BRUFFY: Yeah, Coach Farmer has done a great job get getting me reps at both sides, regardless of what side I'm on, he's coached me great at both positions. It's a different mindset when you flip over. It's not just like how I said it was driving a car in England, it's a bit different than that. But he's coached me so well on both sides that I, honestly, I'm comfortable at either, and wherever the team needs me is where I'm going to be.   
 Q.  To follow-up on that, with the time that Terrence has been here, tell us how much have you worked on the left side this past month and how much did you work on the ride side?  
TRAVIS BRUFFY: I took most of the -- most of the reps I took were on the left side. And then obviously I'm balancing that out with a great amount of reps on the right side, which is the opposite of what I did in the spring. So I'm coming in well balanced, ready for whatever they throw out on Saturday. I don't know where I'm going to be or what I'm going to do, but either way he's preparing me very well for either side.   
 Q.  For you, can you kind of describe the journey that Terrence has had to go through just to get back?  
TRAVIS BRUFFY: Every single day he's busting his butt. He has a great attitude and you'll never take that away from him, regardless of what happens to him or what happens to anything around him, he'll attack it head on. I don't know his timeline, I don't know if he's going out with us on Saturday, I don't know what it is, all I know he's had a smile on his face and has been up here longer hours than anyone on staff, anyone on the roster. He wants to get back, he'll be back as soon as he can. And that journey is, that's why he's the most respected guy on the team is because of how he approaches this type of adversity.   
 Q.  If you're on the left side and Terrence can't go, what does that do to your team?  
TRAVIS BRUFFY: He's very smart, high football IQ. For someone who doesn't have a lot of snaps under their belt he can slow the game down better than most people in that position. I think that he's really bought into the system and with the other four guys on the offensive line who have done that we can all work together as one as opposed to just kind of fitting him, making a him a piece that doesn't fit, he actually fits in the puzzle very nicely. Anyone we throw out there, all the pieces fit very well together and we have a deep chemistry in the offensive line room whether it be -- regardless of who we throw out there, I think that they all bring a unique set of talent, unique set of intangibles to the table. But, regardless, we're all going to fit together nicely.   
 Q.  That seamless transition you talked about that you're able to do when a guy goes out. Is that the way you practice, the way you guys hang out, what is it about that?  
TRAVIS BRUFFY: Probably because -- first off, we have great chemistry because of how much we hang out. Jack Anderson, Madison, Terrence, my brothers, Dawson, they're my family we played so many snaps together. And when they, when the young cats come in, they see seniors who are so close they think that's the expectation. And that just brings us all closer together. There's also not a divide between upperclassmen and lowerclassmen, we all hang out every day after practice. In the locker rooms we're chatting it up. There's not like a stigma between upper and lowerclassmen, but from the preparations side we are extremely well coached, there's not like a focus on the one group, there's a focus on the entire depth chart. So you're developing backups for in case any adversity hits. I think that in the first game, God forbid, five guys go down, but you would have another five roll right behind them that can play just as well. And that's because we're very well coached from Coach Farmer, we have a great offensive system that Coach Yost brought and we're all conditioned equally from Coach Scholz. So with the chemistry and the coaching I think that we have any, any void can be filled in that room.   
 Q.  How eager are you to get Terrence back? You talk about everyone else bring something different, but it is probably going to be nice once you have him back on a full-time fully healthy basis.  
TRAVIS BRUFFY: Yeah, really good, they usually put the better D end on his side, so -- I'm just kidding, they never do that. But no, just like I said earlier, he's my brother, he's like one of my best friends and just because of that I want him to be back, not only as -- and he's also probably the best offensive player we have. He's become extremely diverse and how he can, he was just a big muscular guy the past couple years and now he's focused on his technique and he's refined it to where he should be a first round draft pick without a doubt, in my opinion. And he'll prove that to you when he's back, regardless when that is. But I'm going to miss, just when we push the line of scrimmage in the end zone and Ta'Zhawn does his little celebration dance I'm going to miss going and giving number 78 a hug. But hopefully I get to do that on Saturday. So I don't know when he'll be back but that's what I'm going to miss the most, just having my best friend out there.   
 Q.  You mentioned the addition of the tight end to the offense. Being a tackle how does that change things for you?  
TRAVIS BRUFFY: Oh, it's great. I finally have some help. Guards have it easy, guards just get to play patty cake with the centers all day, I'm on an island. But with the tight end now we can definitely attack the run game a bit different. We're not always going to get three double cloud -- maybe we will and they will figure us out -- but coming into the week we can't throw in three double cloud with a tight end set, so we're going to have at least a heavier box which hopefully opens up routes for our receivers. And then also if they want to get lat in the box, then we'll you rush for three hundred on them. So it gives us more weapons, gives us more pistols in the holster, and I'm looking forward to kind of seeing how it works. It makes, it really does make a difference just schematically.   
 Q.  For you whether it's the bells or the smoke or the fight song, what part of game day for you are you going to hear or see?  
TRAVIS BRUFFY: So like last season I didn't get to run out of the tunnel, so I had to walk out to the coin toss. So I didn't get to come out of the smoke or anything. I saw the highlight video that of course I didn't make it on. But I love the (making a singing sound) that is awesome. Especially when you have a strong student section that's doing it. And then the whole stadium follows suit. That -- I was just listening to the song earlier today, on my way up here, like first day of school, I had to Google search what the name of the song was and that's just an unreal moment, I'll never forget that feeling when they're all bouncing up and down to the rhythm of that song. Gosh, that's what I'm looking forward to.   
 Q.  What was the Google search real quick?  
TRAVIS BRUFFY: It was like best college football songs and it had, I think Clemson's was up there, but then it was ours, and the song's name is Higher Ground. I don't know who it's by, but that's what it is.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
TRAVIS BRUFFY: No that, I tried to use the mic actually and it just didn't come up.   
 Q.  Last week to have the guys who worked so hard earn a scholarship. What is that like to see that? How cool is that just to be able to experience that?  
TRAVIS BRUFFY: That's my best memory is holding Connor Killian. He is, without a doubt, my brother for life. He's been my roommate now for three years. And I always would joke with him like, hey, when's the scholarship check hitting, and it hit on Thursday. And I am not even -- I cried more than he did. I was just so happy when I saw his name up there and when he got put on that, just seeing -- he deserved it a long time ago, he's deserved it forever. He's the only preferred walk on that has come this far. I mean, Mr. Don Williams knows that. But he's the guy. He came in with a chip on his shoulder. He knows he was privileged to be here and he made the most out of it. I mean he's started now in a couple games, he's going to be a huge factor regardless if they put him on special teams or start him in the back field, he's one of the best all-around football players and football minds we have on this team. I have nothing but the utmost respect for him, how he approaches football, how he's approached his entire career here. He deserves every cent of the scholarship check. He deserves -- he should be reimbursed for the first three years. Yeah, that's, he's my best friend and I cannot tell you that feeling, it was amazing. It probably won't be topped until I have a kid or am married, but that's one of the best moments of my life was watching that.   
 Q.  Coach said you would be governor some day.  
TRAVIS BRUFFY: Well, wow, I'm mumbling in this press conference, so I can't imagine speaking to the Senate. But I can tell you that -- people have told me that before, I don't know if that's something I'm going to do. I don't know if they're serious or not or just joshing. But I have considered politics a bit but probably not seriously, maybe city council, yeah.   
 Q.  So who would be your running mate for Lieutenant Governor, since you have praised so many of your teammates.  
TRAVIS BRUFFY: I would first check if you were available.   
(Laughter.)   
Yeah. I got to keep a good PR man, but next I would probably go Connor Killian after that.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
TRAVIS BRUFFY: Good benefits. I promise.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT