ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE BASEBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2018
Jim Morris
Michael Burns
Andrew Cabezas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Miami - 6, Notre Dame - 2.   
JIM MORRIS: Well, you know, it was a great win for us, and Notre Dame played really well.  Tully pitched outstanding, and the right-hander come in throwing sliders, and I thought we were in trouble.  He was like locating big time, got himself in trouble from that.  But our guys battled, kept playing good defense.  Cabezas pitched well, got over 100 pitches.  I was hoping he'd get through the eighth, but we were lucky we had Bartow in the pen, and Bartow has done a great job for us, so both those guys -- one got the win, the other got the close.   
Then there in the eighth inning, bottom of the eighth, it was big, Tony -- you've got Jenkins getting on base, taking one for the team there, and then Romy's big hit, and the biggest hit to me, I guess, maybe not the biggest hit, but the biggest hit in my mind, the toughest hit, was Reyes' hit, the double to put us in position to tie the game up right there, and then Burns hit a game winning hit.   
I think Gil, the two-run hit, all in that same minutes, a lot of guys put a lot of hits back-to-back to make that little bit of cushion there in the ninth inning when we went out there, and of course the first guy gets a hit.  It's never over until it's over, which -- great effort by our guys, our 11th win in a row, and I feel very good about the way our club is playing right now.   
 Q.  Andrew, after they got you there for two runs in the third, it seemed like you shut them down going forward.  Was it just a matter of execution?  What was different from that point forward?  
ANDREW CABEZAS: Attacking.  I mean, I was going behind counts.  I think I walked like a batter there, and that's when they had their little big inning there.  So it was just the main thing was just attacking and making sure that I was throwing strikes.   
 Q.  Michael, I know it's probably frustrating to face a left-hander like that that's below maybe your hitting speed and with that changeup, almost like facing Thomas Woodrey, but what was the approach against him, and did you feel like getting that double in the sixth inning maybe jump-started the offense a little bit?  
MICHAEL BURNS: You know, we were trying to see the ball up, and he's funky and he locates, and he did a good job for a long time in that game.  You know, so we were trying to see the ball up, and we finally maybe got a little bit in the sixth when I finally saw them a little better than I had the first two at-bats, and then, like you said, the eighth is when we really got the offense going.  It was nerve-racking, but we were there at the end.   
 Q.  What was the mood in the dugout?  You're down to your last six outs, basically your season on the line.  What was kind of the mood at that point?  
MICHAEL BURNS: You know, I think Jeb said it.  Jeb said, hey, play like the season is on the line, let's go.  GM also -- he's like, come on, fellas, season is on the line, and the season was on the line.  So we got it done today.  Season goes on another -- until Thursday.   
ANDREW CABEZAS: Cardiac Canes, baby.   
 Q.  Seems like you guys have had a lot of wins like this during this stretch, where it's been Cardiac Canes.  What's been the difference for you guys during this 11 gash dame winning streak?  
ANDREW CABEZAS: Just believing in ourselves and knowing that it's pressure no matter what, so are we just going to pull through now or we're just not going to pull through.  I think that was like the big thing, like when are we going to get it done.  And we started figuring it out right now, we're hitting, we're playing defense, we're pitching, we're doing everything that we're supposed to do, so it's a good thing that we're doing to now.  I think we can pull it through.   
 Q.  Coach, obviously your team showed some fortitude against here today, another late-innings win.  Has that been pretty characteristic of this team during this hot stretch, and what's been the key in your mind?  
JIM MORRIS: Well, the key in my mind was getting Reyes back from an injury.  Even when we got him back, it was like spring training for a little while, and he still wasn't healthy totally to get him going.  And then hitting behind Romy, giving Romy better pitches, Romy has gotten hot.  Both of them has hit over .400 the last 10 games, and that's given life to our entire club and confidence to our young guys, and I think those guys have done that because we've pitched guys like Cabezas, who pitches really well, and I think it's given a lot of guys some confidence to play the game that we can come back and we can score some runs.   
 Q.  Cabezas has pitched as a starter and as a reliever in the course of his career.  Whatever role you need him it seems like he answers the bell.  What have you seen from him now in this role lately?  
JIM MORRIS: Well, I mean, ever since we put him in, his first start, correct me if I'm wrong, Andrew, was here at Duke, right?  When he first started on Sunday, and he pitched outstanding.  He's pitched really well since then.  I mean, he wants to start, no question.  We know that.  And we needed him to come in and get in at that particular time, and Bartow stepped it up and some of the other guys in the bullpen.  He's pitched very well, and Jeb has pitched good, and we need him to pitch good on Thursday.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT