U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2017
Davis Shore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  All right.  Not the easiest round, was it?  
DAVIS SHORE: No, those last two matches were probably two of the toughest matches I've ever played.  So, I mean, I shot 68 the first match and 65 in the second match and didn't make a bogey the second match.  I mean, I had some pretty tough opponents today.  I knew today was going to be tough going in, but I didn't think it was going to be that hard.  That was unbelievable.   
 Q.  So you go 1-up early.  Can you just walk me through that hole?  
DAVIS SHORE: Yeah, the first hole I hit just on the green in two and two-putted.  I mean, I really only played almost flawless like in that match right there.  I missed a three-footer for birdie on No. 3, and that is the only mistake I made.  I didn't make a bogey.   
I mean, I was hitting it well, putting well.  So I just, I don't know.  It's crazy.   
 Q.  Yeah, so like you said, he goes up, 2-up by 7, but then you come back at hole 9.  So walk me through that one.  
DAVIS SHORE: Yeah, so we were all square I guess going into 5.  He made birdie on 5, 6, and 7.  I birdied 6, drove the green just to halve the hole.  He was 2-up at that point.  But I didn't freak out because my first match today was really tough, and I was down a little bit in that one.  So I just kind of was like, if I just keep playing good golf, I can get back in it.  I birdied 9, which is a good birdie.  It was in the left today.  Hit a 7-iron in to about 15 feet and made the putt.  Then starting the back nine, I really played solid.   
The only mistake I made was I drove it in the bunker on 11, and I had the lay-up, so I didn't birdie 11.  But let's see, I birdied 14.   
 Q.  Yeah, what did you hit on that hole?  
DAVIS SHORE: I had a 6-iron just past the hole about 10 feet and made it down the hill, which was a really good putt.  I couldn't hit two better shots there.  So that was good.  We were all square going into 15.  I hit really my only bad drive of the day.  It wasn't that bad, it just drew it on the wind a little bit over in the rough.  I was behind some trees, and I punched it out, but it just went down into the rough a little further.  It was like maybe 90 yards.   
I hit a really good shot from 90 yards to about five feet and saved par.  That was key, I think.  Because I did not want to go 1-down heading into the last three especially against such a great player in Ricky.   
And I birdied 16 right after that.  I made about a 15-footer down the hill.  I had the putt on the exact same line this morning on that, and I missed it left.  So I played a little more break on that one and I made it, which was huge.  Then, of course, he makes like a 60-footer on No. 17.  I didn't really see that coming.  I should expect it.  I've played it before.   
Last time we played, we played at the Wyndham Cup in the singles, I beat him 1-up in that match too, but he shot 29 on the back nine.  So I should have expected that, but he made it.  I was like, well, here we go again.  I was All Square going into 18 before, and I was like I guess I just have to birdie it again.  I did the exact same thing.   
Early this morning I hit 5-iron, 56-degree, and I did the exact same thing.  Just 5-iron, 4-iron, 56-degree, and I was opposite side of the hole.  I was like ten feet past it in the morning, and this afternoon I was ten feet short of it and I made it.  So I was so happy I putted one in.  I did not want to play another hole against Ricky.  I thought he was going to make that putt at 18.   
 Q.  Yeah, you see him putting that?  
DAVIS SHORE: Yeah, he made it from twice that distance on 17.  So I really thought he was going to make it.  It wasn't just down the hill, and I was like he's going to make it.  So I've got to make this putt to stay alive.  It was a real big relief when he didn't make it.   
 Q.  Did you feel any nerves approaching that putt?  
DAVIS SHORE: No, not more nerves.  I would have had more nerves had he made it to be honest.  Because to stay alive, that putt, I just tried to relax a little bit and just focus on hitting a solid putt.  Thankfully I read it correctly, so it went in.   
 Q.  All right.  Are you going to use anything you feel like you need to work on going into tomorrow?  Was it something, maybe it was your iron play, drive, putting?  
DAVIS SHORE: Honestly, the first match I really hit it great all day.  The first match I missed some putts left.  Worked on it in between the rounds.  Other than the three-footer I missed on No. 3 on the second 18, I putted great.   
So I don't think I needed -- 65 is pretty good.  It's a tough golf course, so I don't think there is anything I did wrong really.  I've just got to keep playing.  I'm playing well.  I feel like after these last two matches I can beat anybody out here with how I played.   
Ricky played unbelievable.  I don't think either of us made a bogey the entire round.  You had to win holes with birdies.  It was a tough match.  The wind was blowing pretty hard, so it was crazy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT