AL DIVISION SERIES: RANGERS v RAYS
October 1, 2011
Johnny Damon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We'll start in the back on the left.   
  
  Q. Hi, Johnny. Obviously the hindsight, yesterday's results speaks for itself. You hit the ground running. Now physical, from Wednesday night to the travel, is today's game kind of dangerous for a letdown perhaps?   
 JOHNNY DAMON: Well, I think when you get to the postseason, every game can be dangerous. Your job is to win ballgames, and 11 is what every team is searching for in the playoffs.   
 I mean, we're going out there expecting to win, because any loss, I mean, it definitely gives the other team momentum. So every time we take the field, I mean, we're going to plug away and give it our best.   
 And hopefully the offense can continue where we left off yesterday. It's been a problem all year for us, and it was great to be able to put up 9 runs in the first postseason game.   
  
  Q. Johnny, has being around all of the youth on this team made you feel a little younger or a little older?   
 JOHNNY DAMON: Well, I'm definitely not old enough to be their fathers. But being around these guys, the hunger they have, the joy they have playing this game of baseball, it's a tremendous feeling.   
 I also got that when I played in Detroit last year, you know. Sometimes in this game you have to move to another team and all that stuff, but it's been great for me. You know, you see how organizations work.   
 Last year I put myself around a bunch of young kids. This year I did the same and it feels like when I first started playing back with the Royals, you know. Guys you came up through the farm system together and you grew up together and you're still friends to this day.   
 This is what I see what's going on with this group. These guys were drafted together, got developed together, and now we are they're playing in the playoffs together. It is definitely a very special thing.   
  
  Q. Johnny, a couple of days ago you referenced '04 when you won the World Series, but you say you are maybe having more fun this year with this group. Why is that?   
 JOHNNY DAMON: That comeback we had in September was just amazing. Obviously that comeback in '04 maybe considered the greatest comeback ever. And we finished it off by winning a championship. This comeback is very special. Just because we were so many games behind, especially in that last day.   
 The turn of events, and being able to go to the playoffs with my hometown team, it's a very special moment. And I hope we can continue to play well and we'll see where we end up at the end of this thing.   
 But I think this comeback rates number one for me.   
  
  Q. Johnny, obviously over the years you've played for a lot of different managers, some more orthodox than others. Can you talk about Joe and the unconventional moves he'll make, and does he ever make you shake your head with some of the things he does?   
 JOHNNY DAMON: Well, it seems like whatever Joe has been doing has been working, so we're not shaking our heads anymore, that's for sure. I heard him talking about the lineup and all the changes. Well, we went through so many during the season, so it doesn't surprise us at all.   
 I know one thing, we definitely wanted Desmond to have better at-bats. It seemed like he was tired toward the end of the season, and his at-bats yesterday definitely warranted him to get back to the leadoff spot.   
  
  Q. Is he more different than other managers that you played for?   
 JOHNNY DAMON: He's definitely a lot different, but I think he fits well with the kids in there and what we're doing. Joe's a big kid inside, also. And he understands the importance of us having fun and us trying new things and us not necessarily re-inventing the game, but maybe catching some other teams on their heels.   
  
  Q. Speaking of managers you played for, I know you talked about how much respect you had for Terry Francona over the years, what was your reaction when you heard he was not coming back and the legacy that you think that he will have.  
 JOHNNY DAMON: It was definitely a sad day, especially since I was part of a team that helped create this bad September for them.   
 To me, Terry Francona is a Hall of Fame manager. What he was able to do in Boston and deal with that pressure on a day-in-and-day-out scenario, and even the offseasons. I mean, playing in Boston is definitely, I feel, the toughest place to play, just because the fans are passionate, the fans sit down with you at dinner every single night. You're eating dinner, the Red Sox game is on, and everybody knows what's going on. And that's a great thing, but also it's a tough thing.   
 And I wish Terry Francona the best, and I know if he ever wants a job in baseball, I don't think any team should stand pat. I think he can manage any team or do anything in baseball he wants, and I think he would be successful.   
  
  Q. Johnny, you have been a pretty successful player for a long time. How important has been conditioning for that to allow to you play so good for so long?  
 JOHNNY DAMON: Yeah, the conditioning part for me has been very important to be able to play for 17 years. I think the biggest thing a few years ago, as you become an older ballplayer, you tend to do things that don't get you hurt during the offseason. Like you tend to jog more, you do that kind of workouts. But I figured when did I that, when I got into Spring Training, I felt like my speed wasn't quite there.   
 So now when I go into the offseason, I start from day one, you know. I'm not going hard at first, but I'm at least riding the bike or doing whatever. But I make sure I get my sprint work in. And my kids make sure that I get outside, too, and play volleyball, play basketball, do all that stuff so I can stay in shape and be ready for a long baseball season.   
  
  Q. One, obviously the older statesman on the team and you have two World Series rings, when you came here, did you think that you would be sort of the spokesperson, maybe show the young guys? Did they approach you and ask you, pick your brain, or did you voice your opinion? How did that all work?   
 JOHNNY DAMON: Well, since I have been around, I know when to speak up, I know when to -- when not to. And during Spring Training, I mean, I invited all these kids to hang out. Let's go on the boat, let's go play golf, let's do whatever. If there was anything that I was doing personally, they were all invited. Even if -- for instance, I don't let them know, but if they hear about something, they are all invited. And that's what I told them.   
 And we were able to have lots of fun during Spring Training, during the season. And I think it's very important to include everybody, because this is a team and this is from day one -- or I should say six or seven when we were 0-7 or 6, whatever, that we're going to win or lose together, but we're going to do it together.   
 And it's a team. There's not going to be any pointing fingers or any of that stuff. It's a team and everybody grasped that, and down the stretch we played well together as a team.   
  
  Q. Johnny, Joe Maddon yesterday became the latest to take that you are a Hall of Famer. And I know you have more of your career to go. Do you even dare think of that possibility or are you embarrassed when someone says that?   
 JOHNNY DAMON: I wouldn't say embarrassed. I do know that I've had a very good career. Not as spectacular as some people would like because obviously on certain teams that I've been on those guys probably stole some MVP votes from me, stole some All-Star appearances from me, and I understand that. I have been on six teams.   
 But I feel like every team that I've been on I have helped them out from my production, from my leadership, and also those guys helped me out. The Big Papis and the A-Rods and the Jeters, being around great players throughout my career has definitely been beneficial.   
 But on the flip side, I also feel like I help them out. So I am going to keep going out there and trying to put together some numbers.   
 But the most important thing was in 2004 I accomplished a championship, in '09, and that's what we're hoping for in 2011.   
 THE MODERATOR: All right. Thank you, Johnny.  
 JOHNNY DAMON: Thanks.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT