AL DIVISION SERIES: ATHLETICS v YANKEES
October 13, 2001
Johnny Damon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Johnny, athletes are conditioned to block out the negative.  How difficult is it to block out positive thoughts such as we could be in the ALCS tomorrow morning, we're one win away from doing this and that and so forth?

JOHNNY DAMON:  Well, I think playing the Yankees makes it very tough, because we would love to say this is going to be easy, but there's no way we can believe that.  So we have to be somewhat negative right now.  They're a very good team.  We're happy we're up 2 games to none, but we feel this is a must win situation for us.  And it would be really nice if we could do it.  And if we do we'll definitely be positive later on tonight.

Q.  Johnny, there's been a number of articles written and people talking about the atmosphere in your clubhouse, can you put that in some words?

JOHNNY DAMON:  Well, the best way to describe it is if you could actually see what they're doing in there right now.  But of course we have the clubhouses closed off right now.  They're having a good time and they're preparing to play today.  We're hoping this is going to be a special day and a good thing for us.  If not, we get to bounce back tomorrow.

Q.  How satisfying when you look at the first two games and how you played, compared to the first start of the season.  Is this the Johnny Damon you expected?

JOHNNY DAMON:  Well, I think I expect so much out of myself that when I did come over here I wanted to make a big impression.  And unfortunately it didn't happen.  I didn't get my game going.  But hopefully it was a blessing in disguise, because I know a lot of people out there weren't really counting on me to do much.  So hopefully this is the time I do well for this team.  It's been a long season, but being with these guys, the characterers we have on this team made it a lot easier, and plus winning makes a tough season go by a lot better than most.  So I'm happy I'm here and regardless of how my season went, this is a new season.

Q.  Johnny, talk a little bit about how you have had to move around a little bit in the outfield.  It seemed when Jermaine came a board that was a final piece of the puzzle, but the adjustment, talk about that for everybody?

JOHNNY DAMON:  Well, anytime you can add something like Jermaine Dye, that's a nice piece of the puzzle to add.  Terrence had to move around from center to right to left, and I pretty much told Terrence I had to do that early in my career.  And it seemed like the past couple of years I didn't start in the center.  With Kansas City I started in leftfield, and as injuries or whatnot took place, I got back to the center.  And people in the League started realizing I'm not that bad out there.  So Art thought this would be a great move for the team, and ever since then we took off.  We get to utilize Terrence Long's arm in leftfield.  You can't say enough about Jermaine Dye.  He's a Gold Glove winner.  We're exactly where we want to be right now, and we feel like we have a good shot.

Q.  Johnny can you envision anything better than tonight's game where you're coming out in front of a crowd of 55,000 , beautiful weather, and up two games over the Yankees?

JOHNNY DAMON:  It would be nice to be able to enjoy this beautiful weather with a day off tomorrow, but we know it's going to be tough.  The Yankees play this game the way it's supposed to be played.  And our team has so much respect for them.  We're going to come out like it's a must win situation.  We don't want to go back to the hotel and get our things packed up just in case we have to leave tomorrow.  We're going to lay it all out on the line tonight and hopefully good things happen for us. 

Q.  I realize this is not a priority, but do you allow yourself to think at all about what a great postseason could mean for you personally going into free agency?

JOHNNY DAMON:  You know what, that's a good question.  And I'm not too concerned about it.  This game of baseball pays you very well, and I'm going to be taken care of regardless.  I'm already taken care of.  And I think winning with this bunch of guys, these guys I've grown to love over the course of this year, and it's the funnest team I've been around, and the most intriguing team.  I'm having a lot of fun winning, and that's the big reason why I do play this game.  And a big reason why I went out of Kansas City was so I would have a chance to go to the postseason.  And that's exactly what this team has done for me. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT