AL DIVISION SERIES: ATHLETICS v YANKEES
October 10, 2001
Johnny Damon
Terrence Long
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Terrence, can you talk about how Mark pitched tonight and can you talk about Mulder's performance tonight?
 
TERRENCE LONG:   Basically the same thing he's been showing us the whole year.  He's probably one of the biggest turnaround seasons I've seen since I've been playing pro ball.  Last year was my first year in the big league.  He went down with a back injury last year, but this year was unbelievable and I'm happy for him.  Without his performances, and basically the way he keeps us in games, that's the biggest thing.  
 
Q.  Did you sense any difference in Roger from your first at bat when you struck out to your home run in the second at bat? 
 
TERRENCE LONG:   No, basically not.  You know, Roger, you know, he's probably the best in the game right now.  You know, he struck me out first at-bat with a good pitch.  I think it was a split-finger running off the plate, but the thing is, you know who is pitching and you've got to swing at strikes.  
 
Q.  Any difference in the mechanics?
 
TERRENCE LONG:   No, no difference.  That's the bottom line.  Any hitter will tell that you to hit, you've got to swing at strikes.  That's the bottom line.  
 
Q.  After your second home run, I don't know if you noticed, but the stadium started to empty a little bit.  What does it feel like to quiet such a crowd? 
 
TERRENCE LONG:   Well, actually, I didn't notice it until some people said it after the game, but, you know, I don't see why they left.  I don't think my home run basically cleared the stadium, especially here.  They basically missed a good game, whoever left; Tino ended up hitting the two-run homer and the game is 5-3.  
 
Q.  Talk about your team's confidence with Mark's pitching? 
 
JOHNNY DAMON:  I think one thing with our team is we feel like we have a chance to win every time we take the field, regardless of who is pitching whether it is Mark, Tim, Cory or Barry.  This is a special team and for us to have confidence against Clemens, I don't think you really have confidence.  He's been a great pitcher for a long time.  I think it jacks you up a little bit.  He's going to come right after you, and fortunately for us, we got some breaks tonight.  It was a pleasure playing here to night. 
 
Q.  Johnny, how important was your first at bat, specifically how you scored the run? 
 
JOHNNY DAMON:  Well, I think it was great.  I think Miggie (Miguel Tejada) did a great job of getting me over after I did get on second base, and the big guy got to drive me in, and he's been special for us all year.  It's great to have those guys coming up behind you, because they know how to get the job done. 
 
Q.  What does it say about Mark Mulder, first career playoff start in Yankee Stadium, against Roger Clemens and basically outpitches him? 
 
JOHNNY DAMON:  Well, Mark is a very special pitcher.  He's grown up in front of our eyes this year, and the scary thing about him, he possibly could become a better pitcher.  He's been awesome to play behind all year.  He showed up and pitched tonight in front of a worldwide TV audience, and it's special.  
 
Q.  Terrence, is Yankee Stadium in New York a big stage for you, and does it mean more to you because you had a great day here? 
 
TERRENCE LONG:   You know, from a personal standpoint, I think any player, young or veteran guy, you know, Yankee Stadium has a lot of history here.  Of course, a lot of the people may say, if you want to pick a place to get it done, I think nine out of ten guys will say Yankee Stadium.  You know, it's just the fact that first round of playoffs is here in Yankee Stadium, and, you know, the bottom line is the good thing is  -- we've got to win.  Regardless, if it was anywhere else.  You know, I had a big game today, but the thing; just getting wins.  That's the bottom line.  
 
Q.  Johnny and Jermaine are veteran players; given this is your second year in the League, do you feel that this is an opportunity to show people how you play? 
 
TERRENCE LONG:   Well, I think just playing and getting my time in, I think, yeah, people may learn to recognize me a little bit more, but, you know, until then, just continue to work hard and try to get better, that's it.  I really don't play the game for people to recognize me.  I play the game basically to win, and the dream of everybody  -- I hope the dream of everybody that plays is to win the World Series.  That's the thing; that's what I play for.  I don't play for people to see me on the street and be like, "Hey, that's Terrence Long."    I don't play for that.  The bottom line is just play for a World Series ring. 
 
Q.  Your first at-bat set the tone for all night? 
 
JOHNNY DAMON:  Well, I would like to think so.  Runs are few and far between in the playoffs.  To get that first one in, that was definitely big.  Hopefully it made Mark Mulder able to relax a little bit, saying that "I have the lead and I can go after these guys."  The Yankees are capable of scoring a lot of runs and you have to respect that team.  Bernie Williams hustled down and did not get doubled up and the next batter hits a home run.  That's a two-run swing and that puts them right back in the ballgame.  This was a tough game and that's why we have such great respect for the Yankees. 
 
Q.  A lot of teams that have played as well as you guy have at home would be happy to get out of here 1-1; can you talk about fighting complacency or if it doesn't exist? 
 
JOHNNY DAMON:  Well, we are not going to be happy unless we go home two games to none because we know the Yankees hardly ever lose three out of five games.  We feel like tomorrow night is a must-win.  Pettitte seems to stop losing streaks.  He's a clutch performer in the post-season and we know he's going to come out with his best stuff.  Hopefully the little fellow, Tim Hudson, comes out and pitches a great game tomorrow.  
 
Q.  As a lead-off hitter, is there any better feeling than having a night like this? 
 
JOHNNY DAMON:  Well, this is definitely a very special night, a night that I'm always going to remember, but I guess a night like Terrence Long would have been great, also.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT