CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: MIAMI VS WISCONSIN
December 27, 2017
Joe Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You guys are going to get a lot of action on the front line.  What kind of challenge does that pose for you guys?  
JOE JACKSON: You know, similar to the Notre Dame week, you know, they're a team that's great at running, and you're going to have to stop the run first to be able to have a chance at beating them.  So we come out strong, we hit them up front hard.  It's going to be a fight in the trenches.  So we've just got to come out and really focus on their run, but that's not the main thing.  They can beat you with the pass, as well, so we've just got to focus on the run, play hard, and we'll have our chance.   
 Q.  These bowl practices, how have they been?  Are they the same as regular season practices?  
JOE JACKSON: They're the same.  We go out there with our game plan.  We run through our scout, we run through our team period, do individuals.  It's pretty much the same, we're just at a hotel.   
 Q.  How is that whole experience?  How are you enjoying it?  
JOE JACKSON: It's pretty good.  Great hospitality there.  It's been fun.  We get our practices in, we come back, we get the chance to relax.  It's been a good experience.   
 Q.  They also were hoping to be in a playoff heading into that basically last game of the season, the championship game, for their conference title.  They're talking about their motivation to send the seniors out right.  Where do you guys get your motivation now?  What makes you --  
JOE JACKSON: I think every team (indiscernible) outright, but as you know, our motivation, we're still on track to get Miami back to where it used to be, so this is another stepping-stone for us.  We can beat them; that's just another game.  We're preparing ourselves to play at a higher level next year.   
 Q.  Along those lines, getting back to where it used to be, obviously this is a huge step.  What do you see ahead?  What comes next, the year after?  Where is the young talent that maybe fans haven't seen yet?  
JOE JACKSON: I can't speak to the guys that aren't here yet, but as of the freshmen that are here now, we've got a lot of good talent, a lot of good freshmen that made plays for us this year, similar to like last year.  We've got a lot of raw young talent that's going to be molded into some great by our coaches.  I'd say we're going to have a pretty good chance next year at repeating this and perhaps go further.   
 Q.  Talk about the young guys on the line, Jon Garvin, DJ Johnson --  
JOE JACKSON: As well as Jon Ford, once they get the plays, it's going to be -- muscle memory is going to be like that.  You're just going to have to play fast because you know everything, you don't have to worry about making mistakes, you play fast.  Jon Garvin is fast off the edge, and the kid is strong, as well.  You have like DJ Johnson on the other side, hopefully next year we're going to have everything clicking and have another strong line as we did this year.   
 Q.  You mentioned Ford; he came in late, didn't really learn everything that he wanted to, but physically -- how does he look just seeing him in practice?  
JOE JACKSON: Oh, the kid is huge.  He's very strong.  But when he learns his plays, as well, like the full playbook, I feel he's going to be unstoppable, as well.   
 Q.  You work against obviously the offensive scout team; have you had a chance to see some of the things N'Kosi can do?  
JOE JACKSON: When we do our little team period and we go against them, N'Kosi is real quick.  You know you've got to be alert for him every time he's in the backfield because he can throw the ball, and if you over play him or overrun him, he's got real quick feet and he can just turn it up on you.  Yeah, he's been coming on real well.   
 Q.  Have you seen him got a lot better from day one to the end of the season?  
JOE JACKSON: Of course.  He's gotten better.  He's better at making decisions when he's got pressure in his face or no pressure, so he's been doing pretty good.   
 Q.  If he had to start next year, you'd have confidence he can get the job done?  
JOE JACKSON: I have confidence in any teammate my coaches pick to start.   
 Q.  Looking at this Wisconsin offense, I know you guys have faced some good backs in the ACC; do you see a lot of offenses when you talk about an offensive line that's comfortable 6'5", 6'6"?  
JOE JACKSON: Yeah, we've faced a lot of good backs this year, but one thing they do really well, they break tackles, and they're so much smaller than our front seven, so we've got to do a good job attacking low and wrapping them up because if not, we're going to have a long night.   
 Q.  What stands out to you about Taylor the most?  
JOE JACKSON: He's got good speed.  He's got good size.  But like I said, I think he's probably one of their best -- he's hard to bring down, so you've got to wrap up so you don't look like idiots.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT