NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v LIGHTNING
June 15, 2015
Ben Bishop
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Ben, how are you feeling?   Anything different today than Game5?   What has the progression been like for you physically?
BEN BISHOP:   Yeah, no, I feel better.   I think those couple days really helped.   It's gotten better every day. 

Q.   How much did you feel that from Saturday night?
BEN BISHOP:   It felt better.   It made it a little easier to play. 

Q.   Absolutely nothing to do with your status for tonight or your health.   Going back a couple series when it was said you had the horseshoe.   You're a guy that has been passed over by a couple organizations.   A bit of a rocky road for you.   I'm wondering if you can reflect on that.   It always hasn't been this rosy, I guess. 
BEN BISHOP:   Yeah, I think there's only 30 positions in the whole world to be starting goalie in the NHL.   Sometimes it's not going to work out with the organization that drafts you.   I was fortunate enough to have two really good GMs, Doug Armstrong that gave me a chance in Ottawa, Bryan Murray, had a few options that had a chance to trade me, he said he was going to trade me to a place where I had a chance to play.   He traded me to Tampa. 
Doesn't always work out with the team you were drafted to.   Took a little longer.   But I think it all worked out the right way.   Maybe I thought I was ready after two years.   Looking back, there was no way I was ready after two years.   Three, four years in the minors was probably a good thing.   You learn a lot.   You learn how to be a pro.   Then when you get a chance, you know what to do with it.   When I had a chance in Tampa, I didn't want to let that slip, being my third organization. 
I wouldn't say it was a rocky road, but maybe a patient road.   I don't know. 

Q.   In these elimination games you have faced in these playoffs, what have you learned about yourself as you prepare for what could be a do‑or‑die game?
BEN BISHOP:   Well, I think you have to approach it like any other game.   You can't look at a do‑or‑die situation.   You have to prepare the same way you do in the pre‑season, the regular season and post‑season.   You don't really change anything. 
I think we've played pretty well all playoffs.   You don't really want to change anything, do anything different.   I think we've had a consistent team all year.   I think that's part of the reason we've done well. 

Q.   Jon was saying yesterday he felt you guys were an angry group after the loss the other night.   How have you been able to channel that emotion?   Do you feel that's an accurate read on the team right now?
BEN BISHOP:   I think so.   I think after every loss, guys are angry.   That's the way it goes.   It's not the first time we've lost a game.   I don't think it's going to change the way we bounce back tonight. 

Q.   How do you approach this as just another game when this is an elimination game?
BEN BISHOP:   It's easy for me.   Same thing for me every night, every game.   I don't do anything different for a pre‑season game, a regular season game, or playoff game. 
Circumstances are a little bit higher.   It's the same thing.   You don't change anything.   I mean, what you said, but you don't always think about that when you're playing. 

Q.   This thing has gone on for two months.   How long a march has this been for this team?   Do you appreciate everything that's gone into it?
BEN BISHOP:   Yeah, it feels like a year ago, to be honest.   There's a lot that's gone on between then and now.   Yeah, obviously been very enjoyable.   Great group of guys in that locker room.   We've been having fun the whole way.   I think we can relate back to it obviously happening fairly soon, I guess, we can still look back at that situation we were in and try to apply it to now.   But it's been a lot of fun. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 
BEN BISHOP:   Thanks, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT