NBA FINALS: HEAT v MAVERICKS
June 13, 2006
Avery Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Talk about the third quarter for you guys where you guys came out in the second half. 
 AVERY JOHNSON:  Well, again, we weren't playing very well in the first half, and especially the first quarter.  And we came back and got ourselves together in the third quarter, and made a heck of a run and got the lead. 
 But we just didn't finish well. 

 Q.  Can you explain how your team lost a 13-point lead with six and a half to go, does it reminds you at all of Phoenix when you were up nine with three minutes to go and lost that game? 
 AVERY JOHNSON:  Well, again, give them some credit.  We're playing in The Finals.  Like I've been saying all along, you have two teams that are pretty evenly matched.  They stormed back.  Wade had an incredible game.  Shaq made a couple of important free throws. 
 We just couldn't get anything going offensively or defensively in the fourth quarter.  So give them some credit. 

 Q.  Just as far as, can you talk about that last play with Dirk inbounding the ball, what were you looking for, what were you hoping to see? 
 AVERY JOHNSON:  Well, we were hoping to get a lob for Josh.  Both of those guys read it pretty well.  He was open there for a minute and Terry popped free there and he just didn't get it. 
 So, you know, that's a tough spot to be in.  We've worked on a lot of different things because of those situations, and just unfortunately didn't go down.  Josh made a good try on it, but Wade was down there. 

 Q.  What impressed you most about what Dwyane Wade did tonight? 
 AVERY JOHNSON:  Well, he had the whole game going tonight, inside and out.  You know, he got to the free throw 18 times.  He really hurt us with his penetration tonight.  He was really persistent. 
 You know, even with Wade scoring like that, we still had a chance to win the game.  But we just had a really bad fourth quarter, and that's what's really disappointing.  They outhustled us; 16 offensive rebounds.  This is the way we normally beat teams on the boards.  And Haslem really hurt us on the offensive glass and just outhustled us and outworked us pretty much throughout the game. 

 Q.  When Dwyane Wade had five fouls, what did you tell your team? 
 AVERY JOHNSON:  We were looking for opportunities to attack him, but, you know, sometimes you don't always get the benefit in that situation.  So we had opportunities to try to attack him, and he just kind of laid off pretty much and was not trying to foul. 

 Q.  Obviously, Coach, you had a lot of experience with tough losses before, both in your playing and now coaching career.  How do you rebound from here?  How do you rebound from this heartbreaker? 
 AVERY JOHNSON:  Well, this is a team that really detests losing.  We just don't like losing, anything. 
 So we'll have to go back and take a look at some things.  Wade really got away from us.  Shaq's catches were too easy tonight.  We really got hurt in a lot of different ways tonight. 
 So again, we don't like to lose, but again, give the Heat some credit.  They made some nice adjustments.  They played hard.  They didn't quit.  And like I've said all along, we've been down like that before, and we've come back.  So give them some credit. 

 Q.  Could you take us through that last play where Gary Payton hit the winning shot? 
 AVERY JOHNSON:  Yes.  We were pretty tough throughout that whole possession, and he hit us with a pump fake right there at the end and took a step in and made a shot.  We were right there and unfortunately we couldn't get a stop in that situation. 
 We're doing a pretty good job with their bench, but that's the shot that you'll remember. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT