NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v MAVERICKS
May 26, 2006
Avery Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Avery, was there a particular tactic in why you switched the screens on the screen rolls?   
 COACH AVERY JOHNSON:  Well, I just think we didn't switch them the whole game.  We normally give this team different looks.  I think we probably switched them too much.  And sometime they kind of bait you into doing that.   
 So we've evaluated how we played the pick-and-roll last year in the playoffs.  We've taken a look at how other teams have played them, and just can't give them a steady diet.  But you gotta bring more energy to your defensive strategy, more than what we did in Game 1.   
  Q.  Was it the purpose, though, to keep them from shooting the 3?   
 COACH AVERY JOHNSON:  Well, yeah, I think you know the 3 is a big weapon for this team.  Just like it was in our last series.  And I thought we did a good job in the last series of taking away the 3.  Even though we gave up some more points in the paint than what we wanted to.  But I think this is another team that obviously beats you a lot from the 3, but I think we were so concerned about that we forgot about how to guard penetration.   
  Q.  Avery, do you have a feel from the point you went down 7 to being up 9, seemed like you kind of -- the guys had figured out the system.  Do you have a feel for what broke down there at the end that caused the drop-off?   
 COACH AVERY JOHNSON:  I think it's a consistent deal.  Turnovers.  When you turn the ball over, you allow teams, especially this team, to get out in the open court.  And you know when you don't get back on defense and transition, then you open yourselves up for easy 3s, which they got two of them, and some other malfunctions.   
 So hopefully we can take better care of the ball throughout the game and especially in the fourth quarter if we have a lead, and get back on defense.   
  Q.  Avery, do you have to change the way you go after offensive rebounds against these guys and send fewer people?   
 COACH AVERY JOHNSON:  I think sending four is not good.  Yeah, we had quite a few situations where we had guys that normally aren't very good offensive rebounders but maybe they saw something that I didn't see.   
  Q.  You said after the last game that as far as tempo, you needed to figure out a little bit.  Have you decided where you want to be and do you control that more with your offense or defense, the tempo?   
 COACH AVERY JOHNSON:  We kind of know where we want to be.  We talked about it.  But coming out of our last series, we just had a lot of bounce in our step, and I don't know if there was as much concentration on detail.  I think we'll be there a little bit more tonight.  I'm not sure what's going to happen, obviously.   
 But there's a certain tempo that we like to play.  And we didn't accomplish that in Game 1.   
  Q.  Avery, any word on anything for Josh this time?   
 COACH AVERY JOHNSON:  Game time decision.  We're going to put him through a light workout on our practice court and then we'll have to evaluate it from there.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT