BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 4, 2018
Aliaksandra Sasnovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. SASNOVICH/A. Cornet
3-6, 6-2, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You said that you almost retired yesterday.  Now you're in the semifinals.  Talk about what this tournament has been like for you.
ALIAKSANDRA SASNOVICH: Yeah.  In the beginning, I couldn't even imagine that I pass the quallie and be in semis.  So it's incredible week for me.
But I'm looking forward for tomorrow match, because the tournament is not finished for me.
Q. What do you think has been the secret or the what's been working well for you this week?
ALIAKSANDRA SASNOVICH: My mentality, mentally.  Physically I'm not in the best shape, in the best condition, but mentally I'm ready to play and I really want to win.
Q. You had a medical time-out.  Was that the same problem you had throughout the match?
ALIAKSANDRA SASNOVICH: I'm sorry?
Q. You had the medical time-out.
ALIAKSANDRA SASNOVICH: Yeah, it was the same problem.  I don't wanted to tell that I want to retire today, but it was tough.  It was tough.
But mentally, you know, just play.  Just enjoy.  Just change the tennis.  I just change tennis a little.  Because I play six, seven rallies, the balls, and today and yesterday I played three, four.
Q. The draw has opened up.  Can you see yourself going to the final?
ALIAKSANDRA SASNOVICH: Yeah, I think everyone can beat everyone.  It's tennis.  You know, the ball is round.  And all day, it's a new day.  Like, each day is a new day and anything can happen.
Q. What was the exact problem that you were having, the injury, and is it something that you're confident you can manage for however long it takes this week?
ALIAKSANDRA SASNOVICH: Yeah.  I had this problem on other leg before the tournament, on my left leg.  This time I feel it on the both legs.
Yeah, but I try to do some massage to relax a little.  We'll see tomorrow.  I think it's going to be better than today.  And it was better than yesterday.  Each day better than -- you know, progress.
Q. This is probably, I'm guessing, the biggest stadium you've played a quarter final, premium level on.  How did you feel about the atmosphere and sort of were you nervous about this match?
ALIAKSANDRA SASNOVICH: No, it's a good atmosphere.  I played tournaments in Minsk in Fed Cup, and it was 10,000 people.  You know, they support me.  Just everyone want me to win.  And here, not everyone, I think, you know?
So it's easy.  It's okay.  It's okay much like this for me.  I just enjoy.  I like tennis.  It's my life.
Q. How much last year with the run to the Fed Cup final and having those experiences of playing on the big stages with, you know, the noise and the pressure, do you think that there's some relation between that and maybe how you've started this year?
ALIAKSANDRA SASNOVICH: Yes.  It's really helped me.  It was a really nice year for Fed Cup.  Good matches against Holland, Switzerland, America.
So I already tell to this question, I already answered.  It was on Fed Cup pressure, like, more pressure.  And after this too much pressure, you don't feel pressure.
Q. It goes around.
ALIAKSANDRA SASNOVICH: It goes around and no pressure.  Go on match and, before the match, of course, you're so nervous.  And when you're on the court, no.
Q. So this week through qualifying and all through up until today, have you ever felt any of the similar pressure as you felt in the Fed Cup final.
ALIAKSANDRA SASNOVICH: No, I don't felt.  I'm more relaxed.  You know, because I had some problem with my leg, so I didn't think about it.  I'm just enjoy, you know.
When the situation like this, I think it's easier for your brains, you know.
Q. Is your dad sleeping now?
ALIAKSANDRA SASNOVICH: Just two or three hours.  Or now, no.  He's eating.
Q. Did he change his plans when you made the main draw?
ALIAKSANDRA SASNOVICH: He wanted to go to Sydney.  He went to Sydney yesterday.  So he just come back today at 8:00 in the morning to Brisbane.  You understand, yeah?  From Minsk to Brisbane to Sydney, it's 20 hours.  And now, like, crazy way for him.  But he don't want to sleep.  After my match, he's like -- (indicating deep breath) like this even more.
Q. What does a result like this, and obviously it's not done yet.  You could have a great shot at making the final.  But what does this kind of mean for you at the start of the season to get through qualifying to play well to mentally approach the tournament?
ALIAKSANDRA SASNOVICH: My dad asked me -- no.  He didn't ask me.  He just tell me to start a good season, you know.  Just to start good.  It's easier in the beginning.  When you have some points, you have better ranking than last year, so it's easier to progress later.
Because I play better on September, October, November at that time.  So here in Australia all the years it was tough for me, and I'm really happy with my shape, with my mentally preparation.
Q. Coming into this year, what were the goals?
ALIAKSANDRA SASNOVICH: The goals, I have my dreams own.  My coach said that you have to have a dream, but it's inside you.  You don't need to tell it.  You just need to, you know, to understand what you want and just do it.
Q. So next up, big opportunity.  How do you think the semifinal could shape up?  Obviously you don't know who you're playing yet.
ALIAKSANDRA SASNOVICH: Of course, I finish this tournament and then I go to play to Melbourne.  So I have some time, like, maybe one week to prepare.  So I have time to relax, to go shopping, of course.
Q. Of course.
ALIAKSANDRA SASNOVICH: Yeah, to spend my money, not all, but a little, you know.
Yeah, and just I love tennis.  I love this life.
Q. So Sevastova or Krunic, how familiar are you with them as opponents?
ALIAKSANDRA SASNOVICH: I never play against them.  I play just doubles against Krunic.  They are interesting, players like, combination players.
Sevastova can play aggressive, like, how she wants, good slice, good serve, forehand, backhand.  Krunic as well.  She's running, running, you know, everything in, everything back, everything back.
It's going to be interesting match for sure to watch and tomorrow, I think, as well.
Q. I'm surprised you haven't played Sevastova because you're not that far apart in age and you're from sort of the same part of the world.
ALIAKSANDRA SASNOVICH: Sevastova, she's four years older than me.
Q. But you never saw her in any ITF tournaments or anything like that?
ALIAKSANDRA SASNOVICH: No.  Never.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT