SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
June 4, 2016
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Obviously a very strong back nine.  Was it something at the turn that you tweaked different or just kind of caught fire?
NA YEON CHOI: No, not really.  Especially the front nine, my second shot was almost like just right before the green.  So pretty much I got eagle putt, but I had a 3-putt over there.
Q. Kind of kicked yourself a little bit?
NA YEON CHOI: Yeah, so I just remind myself like, hey, you can go aggressive a little bit more.  You can shoot lower.  So I kind of motivate myself.
And just back nine, my shot was great and I got a lot of birdie chance, too.  7-under, I still feel like I left a couple out there.  My shots been really good, and greens a little bit bumpy but even whenever I missed a putt, I just tried to accept it because greens bumpy and I still hit it well.
So I just kind of trust myself and stick with my small goals and just have fun.
Q. Can you share any of the small goals?  Is that week-to-week goals or day-to-day goals?
NA YEON CHOI: It's kind of been like couple weeks actually.  Whenever I have a bogey or like missed shot, I was kind of looking down, and not eating (laughing), kind of torturing myself, punish myself.
Q. Megan's keeping you -- the sandwiches?
NA YEON CHOI: Every day, she makes my sandwich for PBJ in little mini container box, and then she cuts across it and makes it four pieces, so I can just go one piece every time, so easy.
Q. Peanut butter and jelly or just peanut butter?
NA YEON CHOI: Peanut butter and jelly.
Q. PBJ's are key now.
NA YEON CHOI: And that's it. I don't know, I was so calm out there.  Even after I hit good shot or bad shot, my mood was so solid and keep until last hole, so I think that was the key I didn't played well.
Q. I think Stacy mentioned a lot of times this course is more a mental test, whether it's the weather, the greens, can get bumpy in the afternoon.
NA YEON CHOI: Bugs, too, keep bothering me.  It's hard to keep concentration for your game.  But you can do anything for your ball, so you just have to accept, you have to control your attitude well.
Q. Three birdies in the last final four holes, going into Sunday, do you think that's a little bit of momentum, you'll try to just continue that tomorrow?
NA YEON CHOI: Yeah, I think I like to play three-round tournament.  I won Arkansas last year.  There's only one round left, and my shot has been really good.  Just focus on the target and just enjoy it out there.
I heard that this year the winners, average age is 21.  The oldest one is 23.  Hopefully I can break that one.  Bring up the average.
Q. How important was it for you this week to play here before a major and keep your momentum going?
NA YEON CHOI: I like this course.  A lot of things bother me myself, like allergy, bug, or fescue grass, bumpy green.  But I like the course shape and this course has pretty small greens.  I think I'm a good iron shot player and that helps.
Q. What have you seen with the crowds, feel like the last couple years have been getting bigger and bigger.
NA YEON CHOI: A lot of people just call me like NY.  It's close to New York.  I think that's why they call me NY, NYC.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT