THE BARCLAYS
August 24, 2014
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   When you got to one stroke back, how much did you think you had a chance to win? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Well, like all day I didn't really think about I can win this week, today.   After the 15, I got birdie on 15, and when she missed that putt, maybe I thought like maybe I could have a chance, too.   I really focused on every shot, and I just played my game.   Still, 67 is a good score on Sunday.   I don't have really a regret out there.   I'm playing well all week, and I just end up there in third place.

Q.   Did you feel any pressure on 16 to go for the green in two?
NA YEON CHOI:   The distance‑wise I can reach to the green, but maybe my rhythm was a little quick, so I hit to the right bunker.   But still, I mean, sometimes I finish a round and I have a lot of regret, but this week, not really.   I've got a lot of confidence after this week, and still, we have a lot of tournaments.   Even SoYeon, I just asked her last hole when was the last time you won on the LPGA Tour, and she said more than two years, and that's more than me, and I said, you know, maybe right now my time might come.   I just have a good feeling about my game, and we'll just see next week.

Q.   I think the last time you won, you beat her by two?
NA YEON CHOI:   That was the CME in 2012, yeah. 

Q.   Do you think she learned from maybe trying to chase you down? 
NA YEON CHOI:   I don't know.   She's been playing so well even, like just she couldn't win.   I think she's still top 10 in the world.   She always finishes in contention.   It's not like she has like going down or whatever, like at the top one level there.   So it's not just how much are we learning, it's how we're managing our game on the course and focus our game.

Q.   Everyone knows the Koreans are a great golfing nation, but you come to Canada and one, two, three, obliterate the course.   Is this another statement that you guys are alive and well kind of?
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, I think even after International Crown, we're getting close to each other, we're knowing each other a little bit more, actually more true knowing each other.   We talk a lot at International Crown, and it seems like after that tournament we a little bit grew up and matured after that lot of pressure.   Hopefully we learned something from International Crown, and I hope all the Korean team from International Crown, even I.K., hopefully we play well until the end of the season.

Q.   Do you think if you weren't in the final round you would have been on the green with Inbee and the champagne?
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, that was cool, all the International Crown members were there, but they just gave me a hug.   Even really, like 21 is my record in my life, like four rounds, so‑‑

Q.   That should be enough to win. 
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, just she's playing well, so I can't control her score.

Q.   Now you're going to be a bridesmaid for Inbee?
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, with SoYeon, too, and I.K.

Q.   So your whole group?
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, since like elementary school we are good friends to each other, so yeah. 

Q.   It's obviously tough not to win, but are you pretty happy for SoYeon?
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, I'm happy.   A lot of people talk about even me and SoYeon can't have win, it's been a long time, but somebody has to do it first, and then maybe next time I can have it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT