CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 23, 2014
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   When you shot 8‑under the first day, could you have imagined the kind of scores that everyone else has put up this week?
NA YEON CHOI:   No.   Actually, after the first round, some media asked me, Inbee said maybe over 20‑under.   I never really think about like close to even 20‑under.   I mean, even my score is like 16‑under.   Some friends just call me, I'm on fire this week. 
But look at So Yeon, I don't know how she finished on the last hole, but she is 20‑under already, like three rounds.   That's a lot, you know.
I feel confidence with my game.   I think that's really important for me.   Even last season or a lot of tournament this year, after the rounds I have a lot of regrets. 
But even today‑‑ even yesterday, I shoot only 2‑under, but I didn't have many regrets after the round.   I'm very happy, a lot of confidence about my game.   So I'm really looking forward to tomorrow.

Q.   By the way, she parred the last hole.   She ended up minus 20.   You're still within four shots, that's pretty good. 
NA YEON CHOI:   I think this course is two, three, four shot, I think it's not really matter.   Someone can shoot like 9‑under or 8‑under.   Even I could have shoot like 8 or 9‑under tomorrow. 
But I promised myself I'm not going to think about score, a number, anything for tomorrow, just focus every shot and even‑‑ I don't know where I'm going to finish, but whatever I finish, I think I'm very happy after this week.   My game is most improved.

Q.   Tomorrow you'll be playing with Azahara Munoz.   Have you played with her before?
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, I played with her a couple of times, yeah.

Q.   And what do you think about her game or did you notice? 
NA YEON CHOI:   I think she can really focus her game, and I think she is playing so well this year.   I think she is really looking forward even to tomorrow, only four shots behind.

Q.   Should be quite a group then?
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT