CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 22, 2014
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  NA YEON CHOI:   Actually, if I compare today and yesterday, my driver wasn't great, especially the front nine, but I tried to stay in the moment.   I didn't give up until last hole.   So I really like where I am right now.  
   
 Q.   The afternoon scores don't seem as low.   Is this course beginning to change a little bit?   
NA YEON CHOI:   I'm not sure.   I mean, the course seems not dry much, so still we can hit to the flag.   It's no problem.   But maybe the wind was a little bit switching like every two seconds, so it wasn't easy to choose the club on the fairway.   But still we have a lot of golf left, so I might go to the driving range and try to find a good feeling with my driver and come back with a good feeling.  
   
 Q.   You're chasing your friend and International Crown teammate So Yeon Ryu this weekend, can you catch her?   
NA YEON CHOI:   I don't know.   But I'll do my best.   I read something yesterday.   We had dinner together on Wednesday night, Inbee, and So Yeon and I had a dinner together.   We did two different friends, and we all played good, so it feels great we did this tournament.   Yeah, I want to see what's going to happen through Sunday.  
   
 Q.   Do you remember the name of the restaurant you went to?   
NA YEON CHOI:   It's Shogun, Japanese, Korean.  
   
 Q.   So Yeon said she got take out there again last night.   
NA YEON CHOI:   Oh, they went there again?   
   
 Q.   No, just her mom got her food.   
NA YEON CHOI:   Oh, okay.  
   
 Q.   Did you?   
NA YEON CHOI:   No, I didn't.   I actually went to shopping mall and I went to the movie theater, so I just tried to relax.   Always when I think about too much golf even off the golf course it sometimes gives me a lot of stress.   So I just tried to release and relief from the golf, and I think it worked.   The 8‑under and 2‑under, maybe some people think there is a big score there, a big number there, but I think I'm still playing well today, and I'm really happy how I finished until the last hole.   Yeah, I mean, I just told the camera I think I'm going to the range after this and just trying to find a good feeling with my driver.  
   
 Q.   What was it?   Were you hitting it too far?   Were you off?   
NA YEON CHOI:   No, actually, I hit a couple times to the left especially with the driver.   I really tried to find a good rhythm on the course, but actually the back nine I hit better than the first nine.   So I think maybe my caddie can help me.   My coach was here this week, and then they talked a lot about my swing, so maybe he can find something.  
   
 Q.   What movie did you see?   
NA YEON CHOI:   Into the Storm.   It's a good movie.   It's a little bit scary about the tornado.   It's about a tornado.  
   
 Q.   And you guys fly all over the place?   
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, yeah.  
   
 Q.   So Yeon said the last time you played together on the weekend was at the CME in 2012.   Was that right?   Was that third round or final round?   
NA YEON CHOI:   It was the final round definitely.   But really?   That long time ago?   I can't really remember.   But we know each other very well, especially our games, also we've played practice rounds a lot during International Crown.   So I don't know.   Do I play with So Yeon tomorrow?   
   
 Q.   It depends on what Kang finishes?  
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, we're good friends of each other.   We might have to do the ice bucket challenge today.  
   
 Q.   You're doing it today?   
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, Inbee got called, so before the round started, Inbee said I'm going to call me and So Yeon.  
   
 Q.   You won that 2012 CME.   She finished second.   You hope this one ends the same?   
NA YEON CHOI:   I think it's too far away Sunday.   We just finished the half, and I know she looks like she's playing so well the last two rounds.   15‑under is a big score for two rounds, but my short game is getting better and my patience is getting better.   I missed some good results.   So maybe this is my opportunity to win for a long time.   But I'm not going to think about that and I'll just try to enjoy it on the course with my caddie and all the Canadian fans.  
   
 Q.   She said at crown that you all both talked about it had been two years since you won and how frustrated you were both about that.   Do you remember that conversation?   She said that really helped her that someone else was going through the same thing she's been through.   
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, actually, when we drove to the restaurant every night we talked about‑‑ I think we never really talked that deep with each other, but everyone has, I think the same problem, not problem like stress, problem from fans or media or about the golf results.   But we just decided we can't control that.   Even when we played the International Crown we had a lot of pressure for the Korean flag, but we can't control it.   If we play our best without regret, I mean, that's what we need.   So, yeah, after that I think we're closer to each other.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT