CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 21, 2014
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Three chip‑ins today.   Could you tell us about those?   
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, actually I can't remember‑‑ what hole was it?   I have to look actually at the scorecard.   Yeah, I mean, I made a lot of birdies out there.   I think the main thing is I didn't really care about number today, like some holes I just realized I shoot like 5‑under, 6‑under.   Like until then I didn't know how many birdies I had.   The first hole I started with a birdie.   It just feels good, I guess a lot of vibes from there.   But I didn't really try to shoot a lower score, like 7‑, 8‑under today, but I think that's why I played well today.  
   
 Q.   You had five straight birdies at one point.   Do you feel your game getting better when you're shooting like that?  
NA YEON CHOI:   I mean, I felt good about my game, but I didn't really like realize I had five birdies in a row, and then also I got two chip‑ins during the five birdies in a row.   I didn't really think about I want to birdie every hole or like that.   I just tried to hit the fairway first and then hit the green first, then when I have a birdie chance I really try to focus to make it.   
My caddie and I worked very well, and greens are pretty soft, so I hit like‑‑ I hit the pin every time.   Yeah, I like this golf course.   
   
 Q.   How have your wedges been this year?  
NA YEON CHOI:   Actually I spent so many times, wedge distance control for this week.   My coach came on Sunday night, and we spent like maybe at least five hours around the green and then like 50 to 100 shots.   I spent so much time.   I had a lot of good distance control shots.  
   
 Q.   What were the lies like?   Were they always kind of the same?  
NA YEON CHOI:   Oh, the chip‑ins?   Actually I'd say inside of 10 yards, the first two, and then the other one was from the bunker shot, like 25 yards to the pin.  
   
 Q.   Was that No.5?  
NA YEON CHOI:   No.5, yeah.   I hit 3‑wood for the second shot.   I think that hole is the hardest hole, I think, on this course.   I hit driver on the fairway, I hit 3‑wood, I missed to the right side.   Actually I couldn't really see the ball go in.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   It's been a couple of years since you won.   Do you think the short game‑‑  
NA YEON CHOI:   I think it's really important.   Last week I had 17 birdies during four rounds, and I finished even par, which means I got a lot of bogeys out there, and I just realized that my short game wasn't great last week, especially last week, so I spent so much time this week with this grass, and my caddie always tried to give me the correct number to the flag and to the pitch area.   I think everything was just working very well.   
   
 Q.   And I believe your low score career is an hour away?  
NA YEON CHOI:   Just for this year.   I shot a couple of times 9‑under.  
   
 Q.   Did you have a 62 in Waterloo?  
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, Waterloo last year.  
   
 Q.   The final round, I think, yes?  
NA YEON CHOI:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Is that your low?  
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, 62 is the lowest score, yeah.  
   
 Q.   So when you pass through Canada‑‑  
NA YEON CHOI:   I think every time I shoot like lower score in Canada, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Do you just feel good vibes?   
NA YEON CHOI:   I mean, especially this course, I like when I play golf with big trees, like tall trees, and the air is fresh here.   I just feel good, you know.   
   
 Q.   Is it like that back home or‑‑  
NA YEON CHOI:   Actually I think a lot of people know my manager is from Canada, and I spent so much time with him like the last four or five years and almost every day we're talking on the phone, even like just talking on the face.   I don't know, he always says good things about Canada.   Even I went to some like Canada outdoor brand, I went shopping last night.   When I come to Canada, he always searching for a lot of good restaurants around the golf course and good shopping mall, and just have fun.  
   
 Q.   What did you buy?  
NA YEON CHOI:   Actually I bought some hiking stuff from the outdoor‑‑ what's it called, like Mountain‑‑  
   
 Q.   Columbia?   
NA YEON CHOI:   No, MEF.   It's only in Canada, I heard that.  
   
 Q.   Have you had some good meals in Canada?  
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, not like traditional Canada food, it's more‑‑ I think always I can find a good restaurant around the golf course, and it's always nice to have a good meal during a tournament, even like today I might go find some good restaurant.   There is a lot of Korean restaurants and Japanese restaurants, so I might go there.  
   
 Q.   You've got Inbee on your heels chasing you.   What's that like?   
NA YEON CHOI:   Inbee?   Actually I haven't looked at a leaderboard, so I didn't no idea.   Actually we had dinner together last night because she won last week, so she tried to buy‑‑  
   
 Q.   She had to take you out to dinner?  
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah.   I saw So Yeon and I.K. played well today, too, so that's from all Inbee's power we shared.   
   
 Q.   She said 20‑under maybe; is it hard to say?  
NA YEON CHOI:   Oh, this week?   
   
 Q.   Inbee was saying she thought 20‑under might win.   
NA YEON CHOI:   Oh, really?   I haven't think about that lower.   Actually I was thinking like under 15, but after my score today, which means‑‑ if I shoot like 8‑under, I think everyone could shoot like 8‑under, so we will see.  
   
 Q.   Where did you guys eat last night?  
NA YEON CHOI:   We went to like Japanese‑Korean food.  
   
 Q.   Like sushi?  
NA YEON CHOI:   Sushi, but they have a lot of Korean menu, so we ordered like Korean.  
   
 Q.   How many of you?  
NA YEON CHOI:   Four.   So it was like a whole International Crown Korean team member, I.K. Kim, and So Yeon Ryu and me and Inbee.  
   
 Q.   Inbee paid the bill?  
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Has your caddie been your long‑term caddie?  
NA YEON CHOI:   My caddie?   
   
 Q.   The one you have now.   
NA YEON CHOI:   We worked since like April this year, and then also he helped me last year at British Open.   I mean, obviously I finished well at the British Open last year.   I finished second.   That's why we have a good feeling for each other, so I called him this year beginning of the season, and then he said okay, and we worked together.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT