SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CTBC
April 23, 2016
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about the conditions today.
NA YEON CHOI: It was tough.  I think especially greens were so firm and a lot of holes have front pins, so it's hard to stop the ball around the pin.  The only into the wind hole I can stop the ball, so it was a little tough, especially even when I hit a wedge shot to the green.
I made a lot of par putts out there, and I was a little aggressive on the front nine.  It was good.  But I started with two bogeys on the back nine, and it's getting harder for the back nine.  But I'm happy with my score right now.
Q. Three strokes back going into the final day.  What are you going to have to do tomorrow?  What do you think of your chances tomorrow?
NA YEON CHOI: I like chasing, so I feel great about this tournament and this week and about my game.  I have confidence, so just keep playing aggressive, and I hope I can have a lot of birdies out there.
Q. You were able to scramble a little bit today, out of the sand.  Could you talk about your short game around the green?
NA YEON CHOI: Actually my bunker was good until yesterday.  Hole 10 I made the save from the bunker, but 14 and 15 it was -- I don't know, 15 was good, but I just missed the par putt.  Hopefully I can have a better bunker shot tomorrow, then I can go a little bit more aggressive tomorrow even if I have bunker.  I hope I can have better bunker shots.
Q. How tough were the pin positions?  Everyone said they were really tough.
NA YEON CHOI: Yeah, some holes were very tough.  But it's very challenging, this golf course, and weather and wind and everything.  I really enjoyed it.  I got a lot of bogeys out there, but I really enjoyed it, and it was challenging myself and a test of my golf game, and I had good patience out there, so I really enjoyed it.
Q. When you get paired with So Yeon, is that a good pairing for you?
NA YEON CHOI: I think so.
Q. When you looked and saw the pairing today, what did you think?
NA YEON CHOI: Just very comfortable.  We know each other so well, and every time we had a birdie or a good putt, we fist bumped, so we really enjoyed playing together.  I wish she had better luck today.  She had bad luck today on hole 15, but I think we both enjoyed it.
Q. How far do you guys go back?  When is the first time you remember meeting her?
NA YEON CHOI: So Yeon?
Q. Yeah.
NA YEON CHOI: We both were elementary school, so maybe like 15 years ago.
Q. Probably at a tournament then?
NA YEON CHOI: Yeah, junior golf tournament, yeah.
Q. Your last couple wins, I can look it up, but did you come from behind?  Were you chasing or holding the lead last year?
NA YEON CHOI: Last year?
Q. Yeah, your last couple wins.
NA YEON CHOI: Arkansas I was leading but in the tournament on Sunday.  I was back, and then I chased Stacy.
Q. So going into Sunday you were chasing?
NA YEON CHOI: Yeah.  I think most of them I was kind of behind, and then I chased.  That's what I remember.  I'm not sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT