SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
May 30, 2014
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   All right.   I'd like to welcome in our now coleader Na Yeon Choi into the interview room.   Na Yeon, very solid round out of you; 66.   Super strong finish with the eagle.   Talk about that finish and how important that was to bring some momentum into this weekend. 
NA YEON CHOI:   Actually, I started with a bogey, but you know, I tried to keep calm, and I had great composure out there, and I had a lot of birdies on especially par‑5.   I got only one 5 out there, so I think it was a pretty good round, and I finished strong.   That maybe gave me a lot of good vibes for the next two days, so I feel great.
THE MODERATOR:   Now coming off a subpar week in Mobile, were you working on anything or concentrating on anything to improve?   What were you hoping to change this week? 
NA YEON CHOI:   No.   I keep trying to more swing thoughts, for technical, because when my body gets tired, then my arm is going higher.
Actually, last night I watched on TV, and Rory McIlroy he plays so well, and I watched the whole last night, and I got some good vibes from that and good thoughts from that; so even this morning when I doing warmup, I was kept thinking his swing rhythm and everything, and I think that helped me a lot out there.   And hopefully I can see him like even tonight on TV.
THE MODERATOR:   A little bit of luck of the Irish.   You just said your swing coach is Irish; your new caddie, you guys just started in San Francisco, is Irish.   Grew up with Rory, and you said, all right, maybe I'll go watch him and you think that might have helped.   Talk about that relationship.
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, I'm very fan of Rory.   He has a great swing, especially my coach, they grew up together when they were young, so I heard a lot of good stories from him, about him.   So you know, I never met him, but it feels like we are good friends each other.   And hopefully one day I will see him and meet him. 
THE MODERATOR:   Awesome.   Questions for Na Yeon. 

Q.   How far was the putt?
NA YEON CHOI:   I think 220 from the second shot to the pin.   Then my ball just finished like front edge, which was 10 yards shorter than pin.   And I got like 30 feet to the eagle putt.

Q.   You said 220.   What did you hit in?
NA YEON CHOI:   I hit 3‑wood.

Q.   And you were 4‑under on the three par‑5s.   Have you had a lot of success on par‑5s this year because of your length?
NA YEON CHOI:   I mean I really try because especially this course is very a lot of reachable par‑5s out there, so I was really focus on par‑5 make a lower score out there.   Some par‑4 is pretty long, so I think some hole, even par is a really good score, and also, I had a bogey on 14. 
I mean I missed the par putt, but I wasn't like, you know, disappointed because that's pretty long hole, par‑4, and I have still a lot of holes left, so I was try to keep focus my game.

Q.   And how would you say your year has gone to this point?
NA YEON CHOI:   Not bad, you know.   I mean I haven't won like since CME in 2012, but you know, I finished runner up a couple times last year, and I finished third on first event this year, and I finished fourth couple weeks ago in Dallas.   So you know, getting‑‑ I think getting closer.   And I got lot of good feeling about my game.   So I feel great.
THE MODERATOR:   You've been coming here for several years now.   Are you a gambler?   What do you like to do when you come to Atlantic City?   You have enough money to throw down a couple of dollars.   Come on. 
NA YEON CHOI:   I haven't been there, because you know, especially this week my mom came from Korea, so we have a villa right there and a whole kitchen in there.   So every day she cook Korean food.   And also my caddie, from Irish, Ireland, but he come to my house every night and having Korean dinner together.
THE MODERATOR:   Awesome.   When was the last time your mom came out to see you play? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Last time, I think Bahamas.
THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   Been a little while.   But nice to have her around.
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah.   Always when my mom is here I have great results, so I think she gives me some good luck.
THE MODERATOR:   Any other questions?   All right.   Great job so far.   Thanks for coming in. 
NA YEON CHOI:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT