PURE SILK-BAHAMAS LPGA CLASSIC
January 25, 2014
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  NA YEON CHOI:   I think the last three rounds I had a really good swing, I think.   I had so many solid shots out there.   I missed two greens today.   Only two, but I hit a putt from the fringe, so obviously I haven't chipped the last two rounds.   Like I said 18 greens with that wind, so I had pretty good confidence with my swing.   But just some weird things, like last two, three weeks I haven't practiced much, maybe like seven or 10 days only, and every day it's just work out like two hours, and then I went to Dallas for like chiropractor, just more like take care for my body, and then I got great feeling about my swing.   It's a little bit like weird for me, but I think I learned something.   
   
 Q.   And would you like tomorrow to be like today or like yesterday?   Would you like wind tomorrow or calm tomorrow?   
NA YEON CHOI:   Well, I heard that wind not going to be like strong tomorrow.   Everybody has a chance, I think.   I still have to play aggressively.   My putting was great, and especially my driver and irons, like from the fairway.   I think I have to more focus from the second shot, make a lot of birdie chances out there.   
   
 Q.   Your decision to concentrate more on your body, was that because you were in pain or because you thought maybe I won't practice as much?   
NA YEON CHOI:   Last year after the season I was talking a lot with my swing coach because what was the problem, like usually I hit a lot of straight shots, like consistent player, but last year I didn't hit many straight shots out there.   We were thinking, and then kind of my balance losing during swing, so we were more focused on my balance.   
I spent like six years on LPGA, and every year I've played like 28, 30 tournaments.   For my big goal like 2016, I still have to play well three, four more years, so I needed more kind of like reset for my body and just keep it going for next three, four more years.   
   
 Q.   You're a top player; last year you weren't part of the big three.   Was that like a motivation coming into this year to get into that mix?  
NA YEON CHOI:   Kind of.   So many like sponsors, fans, media, they ask me‑‑ every time they ask me why, why, why.   I thought I did my best every tournament, and still I had a good position, even like end of the season last year.   But a lot of people, I think, expect like victory or major champion or something.   But I think when I started the season for 2013, I was like No.2 in the world, and like so much focus on being No.1, and I forgot like what I have to do on the course or on the range.   
I mean, I think I kind of really learned so many things last year.   I think it's being more mature from last year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT