RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 4, 2013
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I know not quite the finish that you were hoping for but just take me through this final round, your thoughts on it?
NA YEON CHOI:   I mean, I know that was like a great opportunity to, you know, finish great, but I don't know, my focus wasn't bad.   I think, you know, sometimes when I play 36 holes, I felt like after like 30 holes, I felt like very tired.   But I was okay, and I think I missed a lot of putts out there. 
Still I've got a good experience with this course, and you know, I practised with my coach like last eight, nine days, and I'm pretty sure he has some answers for my game, so you know, I'm expecting that, and still season going so far, so also we have one more major tournament, so we'll see. 

Q.   When you take a look at the back side of this golf course, kind of what‑‑ it's usually definitely more difficult; did you kind of know that when you were making the turn thinking, I kind of have to keep pushing through this stretch, not make too many mistakes? 
NA YEON CHOI:   I mean, like if I compare first day and second day and today, like first two days, I didn't miss not many fairways, I didn't miss‑‑ not many greens.   But today, I got maybe five or six bunkers out there.   I think that that was like kind of the low key.   I think I should hit the first and then try like birdie chance or par chance, but if as long as you hit the bunker, you have to lay up.   So it was kind of like driving my crazy out there. 
But I try to, you know, stay calm, and still, a good experience.   I learned many things, after the round always missing something out there, and I think that was the putting this week, so I need to keep working on my putting, especially speed.   Actually green speed was fast today.   So I just keep working on and make some good results in my five tour. 

Q.   Can you take me through some of the bogeys on the back side?
NA YEON CHOI:   I got bogey on 13, that was actually 3‑putt.   And then 14, that was a 3‑putt, too.   The 14 was a par 5 and I drove very well, but my third shot was in fescue and my birdie putt was almost 30‑yard putt, so I missed a par putt, so bogey. 
And then bogey on 17, I missed a par putt, like four or five feet par putt, I missed it. 

Q.   How aware are you of what Stacy was doing, especially as she was kind of coming down the stretch with her birdies on 17 and 18? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Oh, I didn't know where she got birdie.   She got birdie on 17 and 18?   That's huge, especially this golf course.   I mean, I feel like I missed a couple putts out there, but still, she's playing well.   She's playing better than me.   I think that's why she won.   I think I have to accept that. 

Q.   Were you looking at the leaderboard down the stretch?
NA YEON CHOI:   Yes, actually I watch it a little bit because I thought I was leading and then after two bogeys, I thought, I have to check, so I checked the leaderboard and I mean, it was okay, but like after a couple holes later, Stacy went up, and I think I got a little pressure when I check the leaderboard. 
But, I mean, no regret.   That's what I can do right now. 

Q.   And on 18, being two shots down, were you thinking to hole that second shot? 
NA YEON CHOI:   That's what my caddie said.   I tried to keep like visualise my ball landing there and roll.   I tried my best.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT