RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2013
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Nice birdie at 18, had to feel good to finish there.   Just tell me about your round. 
NA YEON CHOI:   I had a lot of birdies out there.   I think 18 birdie was highlight today.   I missed not many fairways.   I didn't miss very many greens and my shot was great today. 
I mean, my coach, he's here and then like we came here on Saturday, we practiced like five days before the tournament and I got a really good tip from him.   I really tried to just stick with that goal, that little tip.   So I think that worked very well but still I have to play 54 more holes, so hopefully, I keep that feeling until like Sunday.

Q.   So just give me your impressions of the Old Course at St. Andrews.   Obviously now you've played it a few times in practise, played today's tournament round.   What's it like to be here? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Actually, first day, when I got here, I felt really, really difficult‑‑ weather wasn't bad, like rain and wind or very bad. 
So first I was thinking like course is really, really difficult, but like weather was getting better and then I felt‑‑ I got a few birdies out there and I got some confidence from there.   Then first day, I played with a local caddie here and then I got really good information from him and he said‑‑ I still remember, he said if I respect to the golf course, then the course will respect me, too. 
I mean, I got like really good‑‑ some fresh feeling when I got here.   This is like, you know, Home of Golf, and a lot of people are very nice to all the players.   So I try to just enjoy the golf course.

Q.   You're certainly one of the favourites every time you play, but it's Inbee who is getting all the attention right now.   Just tell me about‑‑ I don't know if you look at the Korean media or anything like that, but how's that reaction to Inbee been?
NA YEON CHOI:   Actually not many Korean media ask me this week.   I think all the spotlight to Inbee.   I think she has a pretty‑‑ pressure on herself, but she is the best player in the world right now and she have to take it.   She's my friend, so hopefully she enjoys all the pressure. 
But I mean, still, a lot of good player playing well, and Inbee‑‑ being No. 1, I think it all motivates and kind of she inspires all the players.

Q.   Do you feel like you got a little bit lucky this morning with the weather, not too windy and the course was somewhat soft; do you think the morning wave of scores is going to be safe? 
NA YEON CHOI:   I think so.   But I think even this afternoon is not much wind right now, but I heard the weather like pretty bad the next two days. 
So I mean‑‑ but we can't control that.   I mean, everybody has to play, prepare with the wind or the rain.   So we just have to enjoy or accept all the weather.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT