SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CTBC
April 22, 2016
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you feel about the round today, considering there weren't that many low scores?
NA YEON CHOI: Yeah, like honestly, I was a little worried about today before my tee off because of the weather, but luckily the afternoon group has better luck than other waves, I think.  A lot of bogeys out there, but I tried to hang in there until the last hole.  I didn't give up.  That's when I got four birdies on the back nine, and I feel good.  I feel great about my game, and hopefully my back stays strong until Sunday because always like cold weather, it like bothers me.  I need to keep warming up for my back before I tee off, and then hopefully I have a good result this week.
Q. A lot of heating pads; is that what you're doing?
NA YEON CHOI: I still have a heating pad on here.
Q. Do you like the stick-ons?
NA YEON CHOI: Yeah.
Q. Was it pretty much okay otherwise, but just cold weather?
NA YEON CHOI: Just cold weather.
Q. So coming into this week, were you like --
NA YEON CHOI: Yeah, I've got a lot of warm stuff this week, and actually this year is not bad weather if you compare the last two years.  I'm happy with that.  My swing and my putting, bunker shots, everything looks great.  You know, I hope that I can keep trusting myself and then keep having fun on the course with my caddie.
Q. I saw you top-tenned here last year.
NA YEON CHOI: Was it?
Q. Did you play well here?
NA YEON CHOI: Uh-uh, I don't think I finished top ten.
Q. So you've never played well here?
NA YEON CHOI: Well, but Swinging Skirts always a good feeling to me because I won when they have a tournament in Taiwan before they moved to the --
Q. So you won Swinging Skirts in Taiwan?
NA YEON CHOI: Yeah, before they moved to LPGA.
Q. What year was that?
NA YEON CHOI: 2012.  So I like to play this tournament, and so familiar when they wear the skirts, all the guys.  I just like to play this tournament, yeah.
Q. Now, missed cut last week?
NA YEON CHOI: Yeah.
Q. What did you do to regroup for this week?
NA YEON CHOI: Well, last week I had a fever, like cold, so my condition wasn't great, but also I had a good lesson from my coach in Korea.  We just did with a video back and forth, and then I hit actually three hours of practice balls on the range on Monday.
Q. Here?
NA YEON CHOI: Yeah, I didn't go to the course, I just hit a lot of balls, and then finally I got a good feeling about my swing, and I just tried to keep small goals every day, and then just go out there and think about only that small tip.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT