U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2013
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   So a minus‑1, good score; could it have been better or are you satisfied with today? 
NA YEON CHOI:   I'm pretty satisfied.   I started to hit a birdie today for the first hole.   And then I saved a great par on the 18th hole, so I'm pretty satisfied.   I got four birdies out there.   And then I think I hit 27 putts out there, so I think that's a great score.   So I think I'm very satisfied right now.

Q.   How did you feel when on the first tee they announced you as the 2012 U.S. Women's Open Champion? 
NA YEON CHOI:   I was very excited.   I think that was the first time I heard, you know, like it's been a year.   So, yeah, I was very excited and actually I didn't get any nervous when I heard that, and I felt more excited and I got good vibes from there.   Like, hey, you know, I did a good job last year, so we can do one more.   Just do my best.

Q.   How did you find the course as far as a challenge?   Was it a little breezy?   Were there challenges with the greens?   Was it what you expected? 
NA YEON CHOI:   I think the course is pretty difficult, but today a lot of the tee boxes moved up 30 or 40 yards like on many holes, so actually I felt like it's just different holes.   Almost every hole was a different target, different aim.   Then the wind was switching a lot out there, so it wasn't easy for a club selection. 
But I think I had pretty fun with my group.   I played with Lydia Ko today.   That was my first time playing with her, and she played so well and she hit it far.   I think she's a great player.   So we had fun out there.

Q.   How difficult is it to refocus coming back in as defending champion and all the hoopla that goes with that? 
NA YEON CHOI:   It wasn't difficult.   I think my focus was great today.   I saved a lot of pars out there, especially the last hole.   The wind wasn't easy to read, so that was a little difficult, but me and my caddie did a great job out there.   So hopefully we'll take a good rest today and come back tomorrow with a good feeling.

Q.   Was it one of those feelings where once you're able to get inside the ropes you're able to tune the rest of it out? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Not really.   I'm sorry.   I didn't get your question.

Q.   With all the hoopla of being champion, you've had to talk to us, and you've had to go around and represent the USGA for a year now as defending champion, are you able once you step on that first tee to zone all of that out? 
NA YEON CHOI:   I mean, I think if I think about I'm the defending champion, I'm going to win this week, if I think like that, I think never good results come.   I was thinking yesterday and two days ago like how I approached the tournament last year with the USGA tournament.   I didn't try like I want to win last year.   I just tried to do my best. 
If I have a chance, I just try to do my best to make it, and just try to make less mistakes out there.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT