HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 2, 2013
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just take me through the day, especially what was it like to have to sit there for 2 1/2 hours and waiting.   
NA YEON CHOI:   Actually I started very well first of all, and second of all, I got a really good birdie.   Both I hit 6‑iron and I felt great.   I mean, the weather wasn't good until, you know, we finished, but we can't control about that.   I was sitting down inside and just talk about non‑golf with the caddie and just tried to thinking positively.   Just go out there one shot, one putt, didn't even think about that.   I just stayed and feel very excited to play tomorrow.   
I feel kind of comfortable with this situation, this position, so it should be a really exciting game tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Stacy got off to a slow start and you got off to a hot start.   And on the back nine, she was starting to get on fire, and you made par on 8 and 9, how big were those two pars?   
NA YEON CHOI:   I made a lot of putts, even for par.   I got bogey on 15, same as yesterday, but you know, that shot, maybe a little change of strategy for tomorrow because I hit both bunker from the tee shot.   
So I mean, everybody knows that she's a good player, Stacy, and you know, it might be like intimidating player in contention right now.   But I've got confidence and I played well today and yesterday, so we'll see.   
   
 Q.   How big was it for you on 18 to come out there and after waiting for so long to be able to come out and make birdie?   
NA YEON CHOI:   I think that frees me up for tomorrow.   I think I can remember that feeling for tomorrow.   I mean, I finish strong and that putt, I hit pretty solid.   It's nothing any tentative.   
I was a little nervous for the third shot, I don't know why.   A lot of people were waiting; I didn't expect that.   But I made it really good and I feel great.   
   
 Q.   How did you deal with the weather delay?   
NA YEON CHOI:   We cannot control about that.   We always expect rain in Singapore and Thailand and in Asia.   If we tee off like ten more minutes early, then maybe we could have finished, but I cannot control that.   I just took a rest and then came back and I made a birdie.   
   
 Q.   It helps you in the end‑‑  
NA YEON CHOI:   Maybe if I just played, I couldn't make birdie, but anyway, I made it and I feel great.  
   
 Q.   That must make you feel great for tomorrow.   
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, I mean, hopefully that spirit I want to bring to tomorrow, too.   You know, especially these greens, I feel kind of like confidence for reading the lines.   
I mean, even tomorrow, just I try to focus my game and have fun out there, have fun with the atmosphere on the course, just like that.   
   
 Q.   Golf is always shot by shot, and round by round; as I understand it, if you win here, you'll be very, very close to taking over as world No. 1.   Is that something that you ever think about?   
NA YEON CHOI:   I think that if I think about that on tomorrow, then I don't think I can have good results.   So I will try to just think about one shot at a time and focus my game.   I don't care how they play, just try to focus my game.   That's the kind of like daily goal for tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT