HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 1, 2013
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Take me through the day, pretty decent, pretty happy with how you played today?  
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, I think I had a great day today.   I think I had a really good warm up this morning, and I felt great even in warm up.   I started with a birdie on the first hole and then when I turned the ninth hole, I got three birdie in a row.   I got good momentum from there.   
I mean, I got one bogey on 15, but I think, you know, it was okay.   I finished strong on 18.   So I'm really happy and actually tomorrow is like actual moving day, so I want to play well tomorrow, too.   
   
 Q.   Overall, we talked about this course early in the week and how it would play.   How is your strategy worked out so far?   
NA YEON CHOI:   Like today, I think I hit a lot of fairways and I made a lot of putts.   This course, I think the main thing is keep it in the fairway.   The rough is not difficult but I think the grass is in really good‑‑ in shape.   
So even from the fairway, even we have to hit like 3‑ or 4‑rescue, but still, you know, I feel really comfortable with that.   I'm always comfortable with the long shot, so I think that this course is very suited for my game.   
   
 Q.   You were talking about, last week was the first event of the year for you, feeling good about your game and you were excited about playing this week.   What have you seen so far over the past couple rounds that has really kind of made you excited about what you can do this year?  
NA YEON CHOI:   I don't know, I heard from other people, like when they look at me, seems very happy to play golf.   I think that's kind of like big change for me.   I don't know what reason but I feel very happy to play golf right now, and I feel like I don't really have the pressure.   
Just like beginning of the season, I can just go out there, play, have fun, and I talk a lot with the players, even today with Ariya and even caddie.   I just talk about house, how I spend time in wintertime, just like that kind.   Not any pressure right now.   
   
 Q.   You got to play with Ariya today, what has impressed you about her game?   We saw how well she played last week in Thailand and now again today another solid round from her?  
NA YEON CHOI:   Well, I think she's a really good player.   She's only like 18 years old right now but she's a good putter and she hit it far, and also straight.   And then I think she seems like she's a positive person, too, so I think definitely she's going to be really good player.   
I mean, I think she's a good player already, but I talk to her today and she really want to come to LPGA Tour, too.   You know, hopefully I see her next year on Tour.   I mean, I had a great time with her today.   
   
 Q.   And are you impressed by the way she's been able to play these first couple rounds?   We've all seen everybody go through struggles in terms of having a rough time and everybody saw her on 18 last we can with the triple‑bogey, but for her to be able to put that in the back of her mind and shoot how she's doing this week, shows some maturity.   
NA YEON CHOI:   I think she's kind of like‑‑ she's mature.   She's not like any child I think.   I mean, I watched her on 18 last week on Sunday, but I mean, maybe she's kind of like‑‑ she can make, like in trouble (ph) but she's kind of like through all the adversity.   She seems fun and very positive person, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT