COATES GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY R+L CARRIERS
February 1, 2016
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Happy to be joined in the media center by defending champion Na Yeon Choi.  How does it feel to be back in Golden Ocala?
NA YEON CHOI: I'm very happy to be back, and all the people are so nice, and they all remember last year.  I'm very happy, and my mom is here, all my friends are here from Orlando, so I'm really looking forward to this year, and I played 18 today.  The course looks the same as it did last year.  I have confidence with this course.  It's not going to change any strategy.
Hopefully the weather is going to be better, like good.  It looks like a lot of rain on Wednesday and Thursday, so hopefully we have good weather this week, and yeah, I'm really looking forward for this week.
THE MODERATOR: What specifically about Golden Ocala and this golf course fits your game so well?
NA YEON CHOI: I think the biggest thing is the grass.  I think this grass is familiar for me.  I lived in Orlando for seven, eight years, and I like this grass, like Bermuda.  Some people don't like it because we would get some funky lies, but I practiced a lot with this tricky lie, and grainy greens suit me, I think, so I think that's why I like this course.
THE MODERATOR: Do you have a memory of the tournament last year, like one thing that sticks out that you can remember?
NA YEON CHOI: Yeah, when Lydia made the birdie putt at hole 15 and I missed a birdie putt and par putt, so we were like shipped over.  But I think I got good vibes hole 18 when I made the winning putt, so I tried to remember only that feeling.
THE MODERATOR: Going back to that winning putt and when you won this event, I know in the media center afterwards you were talking about how it was a relief to win again and then you ended up winning again in Arkansas.  How big was this win last year for your confidence the rest of the season?
NA YEON CHOI: I think this win lowered all my sorrows really.  I was struggling with my game the last two years, like 2013 and '14, and then I started to do well in 2015, and I think that's why I finished a good season 2015, and also I could win again at Arkansas.
THE MODERATOR: This event last year had a great turnout.  Can you kind of talk about the fan support and what it means to have an event like this so close to the Orlando area?
NA YEON CHOI: I remember all the grandstands were full with people last year.  I was very happy when I see that, and they were so nice and cheering for all the players, not only one player.  Hopefully all the fans come out again from Ocala, and then this Coates community, they are so nice, too, so I mean, assuming all the players want to be out here and playing tournaments.
THE MODERATOR: You're defending champ; you came up for media day.  You've had quite a bit of involvement between the end of the tournament last year with the Coates and with this event.  What does it mean to have an event here in Ocala that's so close to Orlando where you're comfortable?
NA YEON CHOI: It's very nice.  I mean, I think this is the only one I drove last year to the tournament from my house, so it's good to have my own car, and my mom is here, so she cooked everything.  We brought the rice cooker, too, so we can cook, and I can have a Korean meal every single meal.  It's good to be here, and I hope some fans in Orlando, some fans and friends from Orlando, they come here and are cheering for me.
THE MODERATOR: How much of an advantage is that for you because most of the time you're on the road, you don't have your own car, don't have the family with you.  How much of an advantage is that for you personally?
NA YEON CHOI: I think a lot.  Like when I see some Koreans or my family or my close friends cheering for me, I think I've got a lot of good vibes from there.  I like to see them more often, and I hope they have more tournaments in Florida.
THE MODERATOR: And then finally, what are your expectations for the week?  What would be a good week for NYC?
NA YEON CHOI: I want to defend my title again.  I can't promise I will have another victory this year, but I promise I'll do my best.  I think I prepared hard, and like these days I'm just happy to play golf, so I mean, hopefully I can have a good result after Saturday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT