HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 27, 2013
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  NA YEON CHOI:   First day I came here, you know, I was very happy when I see the hotel and room.   And then I went to the garden by the bay, just next to the hotel, I went to there by myself and I spent like almost three hours.   I really like in Singapore, and even the course is really pretty.   
It's not like just golf, I have to see a lot of things on the course, like water, like a lot of things, like roller coaster there.   I feel really like I came here for vacation, not just for golf tournament.   
KELLY THESIER:   First off, this golf course is different than what you played in previous years and you were out there playing this morning, and I was asking the other players, what do you think are going to be the keys this week to playing well on this golf course?   
NA YEON CHOI:   I mean, I think the golf course is long and the fairways are kind of narrow, and the greens are so big.   
So the key to play well, we have to hit the fairway first and then you have to hit very precise for the second shot, because the greens so big, and sometimes we have to hit like for 30, 40 yards from the green.   I have to trust when my caddie give me the yardage, and just trust myself.   
KELLY THESIER:   That's what Stacy said, it's going to be quite a work out for the caddies this week.   Definitely a lot of precise distances, and not many drivers.   How many drivers do you think you will hit.  
NA YEON CHOI:   Like today, I hit three or four times, hit 3‑wood for tee shot, yeah.   
KELLY THESIER:   And I know you've had a lot going on in your life outside of the golf course in terms of you bought a new home in Orlando this year, and you changed where you've been practising at Isleworth.   How do you think that this change in where you're practising now is going to help your golf game going forward.   
NA YEON CHOI:   I think it's kind of invest in myself.   I choose the golf course first, because me and my swing coaches, we thought I needed to practise in better facility, so I choose Isleworth.   
Then I got a new house, too, around the golf course, so it's kind of all investment in myself.   Then after last week, I played the first tournament of the season, and then I talked to caddie and then he told me, like seems my short game has improved from last year.   I think I worked very hard, and it brings a good result.   
   
 Q.   Compared to the Garden Course, where you've had very good experiences, how do you care the two, and maybe which course would suit your eye a little better?   
NA YEON CHOI:   You mean the back nine or the front nine?   
KELLY THESIER:   Last year's golf course to this one.  
NA YEON CHOI:   I think this year, the course is more difficult than last year, and a lot narrow fairway than last year.   Like yesterday and today, I played 18 both days, but I haven't practiced much, so like after this time, I'd like to go hit, practise for driver shot and try to hit straight.   
It doesn't matter distance.   I know the course is pretty long but I think that the main thing is we have to keep the fairway first.   
KELLY THESIER:   You're not so bad on tight courses.   You've played in some difficult courses, like where you won at Blackwolf Run at the U.S. Open last year.   Do you like tend to suit your game?   Do you like golf courses where you really have to think your way around?   
NA YEON CHOI:   I like to play golf with smart, you know.   I like to play very precise.   Like I would like to think a lot of golf on the course, so I think that I like difficult course and I like to challenge.   
I mean, it doesn't matter result.   Like every time if I play golf with like some difficult course, I think I learn many things from that.   So I like to play like difficult lie, difficult shot, difficult course.   
   
 Q.   This course is set up for the men, The Barclays Singapore Open particularly, and I spoke to the course designer, and he says, I'm a bit worried because I don't think too many girls are going to shoot low.   I said, well, they are pretty good.   A lot of the shots are from 160, 170 in here.   First of all, what club would you take for that shot, and would you want to have a word with him and tell him that you will shoot low?   
NA YEON CHOI:   Well, actually I got a lot of birdies today.   I think that's why I've got a lot of confidence with the golf course.   
I know the course is very difficult, but today I had five birdies out there.   I mean, eventually I had one double‑bogey, but the main thing is I got five birdies.   And I used a lot of rescue club on the course, but my favourite club is 5‑rescue, so I think I'm happy with that.   
   
 Q.   You're getting closer to Yani at the top; is that a target for you this year, to take No. 1?   
NA YEON CHOI:   My goal is being No. 1, but it's not a ‑‑ like my future goal, and also my dream, is like‑‑ like my goal is just play golf, like do my best every time.   My job is just go out there, hit the ball.   Not just think about result or try to catch Yani now, not like that.   
So I just want to like stick with my daily goal and just do my best and have fun.   
   
 Q.   Speaking to Michelle Wie and Stacy Lewis, they were saying that maybe one advantage the Asian players they have is they are better at the short game and putting, and you have eight of the Top‑10‑ranked players in the world from Asia; is that a trend you see continuing, and that an advantage that you have, putting, over the Europeans and the Americans?   
NA YEON CHOI:   Well, actually, like when we grew up, we practise on indoor driving range, so we didn't have much experience with the short game on the grass.   
So I always thinking, American player or European players, better short game than Asian players, always.   That's why last winter time, actually after the 2012 season, I talked to my swing coach, we need to improve short game.   That's why, you know, I move to the new golf course and then I spent a lot of time on short game.   
KELLY THESIER:   Practising indoors probably helped mentally‑‑ I don't know, I grew up in the cold weather in the States when I played golf and had to practise indoors and I think helped me focus a little bit more.   Do you think that kind of helps players, too?   Do you think it's helped you with your mental game overall, having to practise like that early on?   
NA YEON CHOI:   Well, actually, when I was young, like ten or 15, I practiced like ten hours a day.   But it's hard to focus I think ten hours, so like after when I realise we need to practise a little less, and you know, spend time with the like short game or workout.   
So when I practise just five hours, I could focus more than ten‑hour practise.   So it's kind of like, kind of strategy, like just me and my father we thought.   
   
 Q.   The season is just barely less than a month, how would you describe your form in this early season?   
NA YEON CHOI:   I just played one tournament last week.   Well, actually, first two rounds, I didn't shoot low score.   But you know, after 27th hole, I had four‑over par, but I finished very strong.   I felt I could shoot like low and I got a lot of confidence from last week.   
So I mean, actually like in Singapore, I had a great result last year.   That's why it's kind of like motivate me to play well this week.   So I hopefully have good results again.   
KELLY THESIER:   That round you're talking about, you went 40‑31.   Have you done that much in your career?   What kind of changed on that back nine that got you going?   
NA YEON CHOI:   I think that was kind of a record myself; nine strokes difference, the front nine and back nine.   After the ninth hole, I got birdie on 10; that's the first birdie on second round, and I felt kind of like spark there and good momentum from there.   
So I don't know, just like even I shoot 4‑over, I was feeling like kind of still happy.   And I told my caddie at the moment that I like to work with you‑‑ I don't know why, what reason, but I was happy to play golf.   
KELLY THESIER:     Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT