SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 13, 2012
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome defending champion Na Yeon Choi to the interview.   Another good round.   Puts you 13‑under for the tournament.   Two‑shot lead heading into the final round.   Is that more comforting than last year?   Any feelings heading into the final round with a two‑shot lead? 
NA YEON CHOI:   I think it's pretty same last year.   The good thing is I know I cannot control other players' score.   So, you know, even tomorrow, go out there, I'm going to watch the leaderboard because I have to know what is situation, but I cannot control their score. 
I have to focus on my game, play my game, just play one shot at a time.   I think that's my goal tomorrow. 
THE MODERATOR:   Suzann was at your heels a bit.   You keep your eye on the leaderboard.   Were you looking today?   Did you feel pressure with her being right behind you? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Honestly, yes.   I think I had a pretty hard time during the round.   Today all day rain.   That's why I play so long.   We wake up like 12 hours ago.   That's a pretty long day. 
But I birdie on 12, and then I got some like good momentum from there.   That's why I think I finished strong today.   Then I'm really glad to finish today. 
THE MODERATOR:   Only bogey was on 10. 
NA YEON CHOI:   Yes. 
THE MODERATOR:   Talk about the bogey on 10 and how you regrouped from that. 
NA YEON CHOI:   I had a 3‑putt on No.10.   My first putt was almost 20 yard.   Pin was all the way back.   Maybe five more yard, so... 
I mean, that hole, I tried a little bit like smart shot from second shot.   Ball just finished short of the pin.   But I think too short. 
THE MODERATOR:   A little too short? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah.   I had only one bogey today, even though today was very difficult day. 
You know, I can take a good rest today because we finish late.   Come back tomorrow with a good feeling. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   You've been leading since day one.   Talk about how tiring it is, how hard it is to keep the lead. 
NA YEON CHOI:   It's more like pressure, I think, because a lot of fans, even my family, because I played well yesterday, day before, so they expect me to play well today. 
When I think about that, I had lot of pressure.   But I cannot control what other people think.   So I just try to do what I can do, like even just go out there, play my game, my ball.   I can't control. 
It's just a little pressure, but it's not hard. 
THE MODERATOR:   Yani had a surge last year, came out of nowhere.   You kept your cool and held her off Sunday.   People are posting low scores throughout the week.   Are you ready to hold off anybody else?   Anybody else in your sights that you think might make a run? 
NA YEON CHOI:   I think a lot of good player, they are behind me now.   Actually, honestly, I don't like leading, that feeling.   I like chasing better. 
But like today, I think I played too much safely.   So tomorrow, you know, I'm not going to think about my score, even two‑shot lead.   I just go out there with a general score and play my game.   I want to play lower than like any day. 
THE MODERATOR:   You want to be more aggressive for tomorrow? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Right. 

Q.   When you came back after the rain delay, did you have to change anything?
NA YEON CHOI:   No.   I played only one hole, then we had a break.   I think we had almost a three‑hour break. 
THE MODERATOR:   Four. 
NA YEON CHOI:   Actually I took nap again. 
THE MODERATOR:   Second rain delay, second nap.   How long was this nap? 
NA YEON CHOI:   I think 30 minutes.   I think a lot of player saw that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT