SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 11, 2012
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We would like to welcome Na Yeon Choi.   Great round, bogey‑free, six birdies.   Any highlights of the round?   
NA YEON CHOI:   I think my shot was great today.   I have a lot of birdie chance.   I had a great score, 6‑under.   But I feel like I still something left out there.   My shot was great.   I have a lot of birdie chance.   
But 6‑under is always a good score any golf course.   So, no, I feel great.   I'm very happy.   We still have three more rounds, but I have a lot of confidence, especially with this golf course.   So I really looking forward this week.   
THE MODERATOR:   You clearly like this course.   What is your favorite thing about it, anything that suits your game that sticks out?   
NA YEON CHOI:   You know, I think the rough is a little longer than last year.   Actually, when I played the practice round, my strategy is like put the fairway first because if I hit the fairway first, I think I can make a chance for a birdie.   So even today all day I tried to ball hit the fairway first.   I think it works.   
THE MODERATOR:   Possibly could be more pressure as a defending champ.   Clearly didn't get to you.   Did you come in this week feeling more pressure or do you thrive on that, having attention, knowing you've done well here before?   
NA YEON CHOI:   You know, I think I put extra pressure on myself.   A lot of people expect me to win again this year.   But I think I like that tense.   That makes me little nervous, more like pressure, but I like that feeling.   I think all the players need that little tense, that pressure.   
The main thing is I know course very well and I know I have ability to play well this golf course because I did last year.   So I just try to think positively.   I have lot of pressure, but I try to thrive off the pressure.   
THE MODERATOR:   You had a break after the British.   Did you go back to Korea?   
NA YEON CHOI:   Actually, I played Japan Women's Open.   I think I finished 15 or 16 something.   
THE MODERATOR:   Anything you've been practicing in particular?   
NA YEON CHOI:   Not really.   I changed my driver.   This time is only the second week I use that driver.   I think pretty good, looks little further than older driver.   
THE MODERATOR:   Added on some yards?   
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah.   I still working on with my driver, but I like my driver now.   Very comfortable.   
THE MODERATOR:   Going into the final stretch of this season, six events left, do you have any short‑term goals of anything you really want to accomplish in the next few events?   
NA YEON CHOI:   Actually, I won the U.S. Open this year.   That was my first to win of the major tournament.   I think after I won the U.S. Open, I put little bit more pressure on myself.   
So, you know, like I have goal, but I think I need more focus on my small goal, small goal every day.   I'm trying to think what I can do control.   So now my goal is not like goal, but I want to be more like stick to my daily plan.   
THE MODERATOR:   The little things.  
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, just the little things.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions.   
   
 Q.   Your experience from the past few years, always been rain delays here, but do you think today it disturbed your rhythm a bit?   
NA YEON CHOI:   Actually, you know what, when we had the break, I took little nap inside.   I think I feel comfortable.   Actually after the break, we went back to the golf course, I think green speed was a little slow.   If we have the same situation like next few days, I think I have to think about that.   
After the break, my putter was short every hole.   Like even tomorrow or next few days, I think I have to think about a little bit more my putting speed.   
I mean, good thing is I always try to think positively, even like two‑hour break or 30‑minute break.   Everybody same, so I try to accept what happen.   
THE MODERATOR:   How long was that nap?   
NA YEON CHOI:   25 minutes (laughter).   
   
 Q.   What was your mindset going out this morning?   
NA YEON CHOI:   Like what I said, my strategy, I have to think about my strategy.   So, you know, I just remind myself before I tee off that my strategy is keep the fairway first.   Doesn't matter like distance, I think.   
Even yesterday and Tuesday I practiced a little bit more focused on my tee shot, keep the fairway first, because I have lot of confidence with my iron.   So I try to focus more tee shot.   
I mean, I think I did well today even on the course.   I had really fun with my caddie and all the group.   
THE MODERATOR:   How long have you had your caddie now?   
NA YEON CHOI:   I think Safeway Classic.   That was the first week.   
   
 Q.   Do you think you can go lower tomorrow?   
NA YEON CHOI:   Lower score, you mean?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
NA YEON CHOI:   I don't know.   I mean, if I shoot little bit more low, I be really happy.   
But score I cannot control.   I just go out there and play one shot at a time.   I mean, if I did my best, the score doesn't matter.   I want to really play without regrets, yeah.   
   
 Q.   If you do win this year, what would you reward yourself with?   
THE MODERATOR:   Would you buy anything?   
NA YEON CHOI:   I don't know.   I mean, I like to shopping really.   I like to shopping.   But I never been to Kuala Lumpur downtown.   My caddie say there is a really good shopping mall in there.   We have to leave Sunday night.   If I have time, I like to go downtown.   People say at nighttime a lot of traffic there.   So I don't know.   
But I play with the chairman of Sime Darby yesterday.   He said vacation or honeymoon you should come to Malaysia.   I promised him like honeymoon or something, when I have vacation, I want to back to here and have some time, yeah.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT