CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 23, 2012
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome our current leader Na Yeon Choi into the interview room.   Congratulations, a great 5 under par round, 67 today.   Conditions kind of changed by the minute.   Can you take me through your day out there and how you were able to shoot so well today? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Well, actually I talked to my parents last night.   I told them, and they asked me, How is the course?   I said the course is very difficult, and I don't know.   I could shoot a lower score.   I might shoot even par all day will be my good score. 
I didn't expect much to play low scores on this course, but I had a birdie on 2, and then I had three birdies in a row on the front nine.   Then I think I got some good vibes from there.   I just tried to stay calm because there was a lot of rain and stuff.   So I just tried to stay calm and stay focused on my game.   Just tried to hit the fairways first, and then greens first, and then just make the par. 
If I have a birdie chance, I just tried my best to make the putt.   After the 18th hole I shot 5‑under.   I think I'm really happy and I'm very satisfied. 
THE MODERATOR:   A lot of the players that we had in early this week were talking about how tough that front nine was playing.   To be able to go 4‑under on the front, had you to be feeling good when you made the turn about how your day was going? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Like I told you, I got really good vibes and good feelings after I discovered four birdies after 8 holes.   The weather was a little colder this morning, and the greens were back and forth.   So I felt like I don't know, like I felt‑‑ I felt the rain helped to make the greens softer, so I just tried to keep thinking positively.   And I think that worked very well today. 
THE MODERATOR:   Did that rain help the greens?   I know we were talking about how hard they were getting with the dry weather.   But did they seem more receptive after the rain started? 
NA YEON CHOI:   I think so.   Last two, three days, I think the course is very firm, even fairway and greens.   Greens are fast, especially downhill.   But after it rained a little bit, I think the course seemed very soft and slow on the green.

Q.   What do you think makes this course especially difficult? 
NA YEON CHOI:   I think the front nine is very hilly.   We have downhill par, uphill par, I think it's more than we look.   So we have to delicately especially downhill putts.   I think that's why we say greens are very difficult this week.

Q.   The U.S. Open win, how special was that coming as it did at the same golf course where Se Ri had won years ago?   What did that mean to you? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Actually, that was very amazing.   Still it's like some people say congratulations on winning the U.S. Open, I mean, that was almost more than one month ago still lot of people thinking about me and congratulating me.   So I'm really happy and appreciative of them. 
You know, like Se Ri won 1998, and I watched that on TV when I was 10 years old.   My dream was just being there and trying to play on the LPGA Tour.   That was my dream.   It was so amazing.   I didn't expect when I was young I would win the U.S. Open.   But it's like after the U.S. Open win, I just thought this is my dream come true.

Q.   I understand you traveled with an English tutor last year, studied the language very hard.   Why did you think that was important?   How have you seen things open up for you because your English and you're a little more comfortable with the language now? 
NA YEON CHOI:   I thought I needed more connection with the fans, American fans.   That's why I was looking for an English tutor.   Actually, he's from Vancouver.   I'm pretty sure his parents are out there and they support me.   I don't know.   I feel really comfortable. 
This is my first trip in Vancouver, but I feel very comfortable because maybe I heard a lot of things here from my English tutor.   Actually, two years ago I couldn't talk much with the media, with the fans.   But now I can talk with them, so I feel really comfortable.   I don't know.   I feel more comfortable living in America.   So I think that brought some good to my golf game too.

Q.   What is the tutor's name? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Greg Morrison.

Q.   And you talked about the good vibes.   You get some good vibes.   There is a large Asian population in the lower main land.   Did you get some good vibes from the fans as well? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah I wasn't surprised that a lot of people were out there, especially Korean crowd out there.   So they support me a lot.   I think I got good vibes from that, and that's why I could play well today.

Q.   Michelle Wie was talking about the amazing Asian food here.   Have you gotten to enjoy any of it this week? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, I go to a Korean restaurant every meal if I can.   Last night I went to great‑‑ I found a great restaurant.   It tastes like my mom cooks.   So maybe even tonight I'm going to go again.

Q.   Good luck.   You've got to keep up the same routine. 
NA YEON CHOI:   It's like three minutes away from the course.

Q.   Really, the only trouble you had was on the back nine you had back‑to‑back bogeys there on 13, 14, 14, 15.   What happened on those?   How did you recover from that? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Golf is a long day game.   I think I was losing my focus at that moment.   So that's why I got two bogeys.   But after two bogeys I realized I have to focus my game, and I have to go back and get back on track.   So I just tried my best.   When I had birdie on 17, that gave me a good feeling. 
So I felt like I have a lot of confidence in my game, and hopefully today‑‑ today isn't Sunday, but it's Thursday.   So I have to play three more rounds and do my best.   I'm not going to change my strategy with this golf course, so I hope to get good results on Sunday.

Q.   How motivated are you to be number 1 in the world?   You're very close now. 
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, one of my goals is being number 1 in the world.   But I can't control the results.   I can't be there if I won.   I have to do what I have to do.   I can't control about the results.   So I just do my job and go out there, have fun, and focus on my game.   If I have a good result, that will make me number 1 in the world.

Q.   You're using Yani Tseng's former caddie.   Is he your full‑time caddie now? 
NA YEON CHOI:   No, he will be working for me full‑time.

Q.   You won the U.S. Open.   This is a National Open as well.   Not as big as the U.S. Open, but a National Open.   How cool would it be to win two of those in one year? 
NA YEON CHOI:   I think the Canadian Open is a big tournament on the LPGA Tour, especially a lot of Canadians came to the tournament and supported us and watching us.   So it's really great when we come back to Canada.   I think this is a good event and special event.   So if I have good results this week, it might be a special memory for me.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
NA YEON CHOI:   No, actually, he has four years already in Korea.   He lives in Korea right now.   So after the last season he said I have to take care of my daughter English too.   So he said he couldn't travel with me this year.   Still I keep in touch with him.   When I go back to Korea, I still have class with him.   He is still working for me, so hopefully my English will improve better.

Q.   Is Hazzy a Korean golf company? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Yes, it's a Korean golf clothing company.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT