U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2012
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Lots of birdies today. 
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah.   I had a lot of birdies today.

Q.   What did you feel like when you began your round?   When did you feel like you had something going today?
NA YEON CHOI:   I mean I didn't try hard, you know.   A lot of people think or even, you know, before I started I thought today would be very difficult because a lot of wind blowing.   But you know, I started two birdies, first hole, second hole.   So I had good vibes from there.   So I have confidence until last hole, and I think, you know, I had good patience.   So that's why I had good round today.

Q.   Is this special for you because of what Se Ri did here back in 1998?
NA YEON CHOI:   Yes.   This is a very special golf course and very honored because 14 years ago I was playing golf and then I was watching on TV.   And when she take off shoes and socks, I remember that feeling.   And then you know, like Se Ri Pak did.   She inspired all of the Korean players. 
So I mean not even me, I think all the Korean players feel very honored to play this week and very special.   So yeah, I'm very honored to play this week, and I really hope to continue from since 14 years ago.

Q.   Did I read it correctly that you actually defeated Se Ri earlier in your career?
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah.   I think it was like almost eight years ago, when I was 16, 17 years old.   Yeah, I played KLPGA player from amateur, and she was playing there, and yeah, I won the tournament.   That's why I turned pro in Korea.
I mean she's ‑‑ actually all of my friends, all the golfers in Korea we called the legend to Se Ri.   I mean I really appreciate what she did on the LPGA Tour.   No way we come here without them.

Q.   Did you surprise yourself today?   Did you catch yourself by surprise the way you played out there?
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, I was very surprised, and I couldn't remember, but the main thing I wasn't nervous on the course.   Right now I'm more nervous right now.   But on the course I wasn't nervous, and I had fun with my caddie and even my partner, Nicole.   And I think I had a great time out there.   Yeah.

Q.   Do you think that's going to change tomorrow with all the pressure and everybody looking at you?   What do you think it's going to be like waking up tomorrow and knowing you're leading by so much?
NA YEON CHOI:   Honestly, it will be a lot of pressure tomorrow, but you know, I know what I have to do, and I know what I can control.   I cannot control winning.   I can't control score, so I just do my best and I just hit one shot at a time.   I hope to get good warmup tomorrow morning and just go out there and like today, fun with my caddie.

Q.   How were the galleries out there?
NA YEON CHOI:   I was very thankful.   A lot of spectators were out there, a lot of Korean people, too.   So I think they were very supporting me a lot, and encouraging me.   Yeah, I think they helped me a lot.

Q.   How will you keep your eye away from the board tomorrow, because everybody's coming for you, you don't want to look over your shoulder?
NA YEON CHOI:   Actually, even today I was looking leaderboard on 9, and then my caddie said, what are you looking at.   Don't look at it.   And then after that I tried to don't watch leaderboard until last hole.   So just after play, after score card signed and then I knew what happened on the course.   So even tomorrow I will try don't watch leaderboard and just focus on my game and play my game.

Q.   Do you remember where you were, were you watching on TV at home?   Did you like stay up all night to watch it?
NA YEON CHOI:   I can't remember exactly where I was, but I remember that feeling.   That was very big boost of all the Korean people.   So I was only nine years old and maybe I can shoot like 90 score or something like that, but I remember that feeling.   So really I want to keep continue that feeling and I want to give to all the Korean people what Se Ri did 14 years ago and tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT