KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 30, 2012
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Na Yeon Choi into the interview room.   Congratulations, a great round of 67 today, 5‑under par.   One birdie on the front nine, and four on the back, which traditionally has been playing tougher.   Can you just take me through the round today and what was working for you? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, I had a great round today, and I had only one bogey on the front nine.   Then I was very calm and very patient.   Then I had birdie on 10.   After that, I got some momentum from there. 
Then the weather was great, putting was good, so I was very happy to play on this golf course.   I have a lot of confidence with this golf course, and my feeling was great.   So I didn't give up.   I tried my best, and then I got some good results today. 
THE MODERATOR:   We were talking about how you changed your putter back in January.   How are you liking the new putter, and do you feel like it's helping you?   You moved to that stretch to number two in the world, so you've been playing pretty well.
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, I changed the putter in January.   I used a Taylor Made putter, and I changed it to Bobby Grace.   The putter from my swing coach, he used it a really long time ago, almost ten years ago.   It looks not pretty.   It looks a little weapon, but it set up great, and the feeling was great, so I loved that putter.
THE MODERATOR:   Do you feel that it's helped you?   You've always been a good putter, but do you feel your putting has improved this year? 
NA YEON CHOI:   I think so.   That putter makes a better set‑up for me.   So I changed the putter and then my aim was better.   So I had better than last year.
THE MODERATOR:   You've won a few times here on the LPGA Tour.   What would a major championship win mean to you? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Actually, it means a lot to me.   This is one of the major tournaments, one of my favorite tournaments.   If I win this tournament or any major tournament, I'd be very honored and very happy. 
THE MODERATOR:   Is this one, considering the history of the event and the jump into Poppie's Pond, did that make it even more special?   Do you even think about that during the week?   Do you look at the pond when you walk by 18? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Every day I look at the pond, but I don't know how to swim, and I'm very scared of water because I had a very bad experience when I was young. 
Actually, I told my caddie last year before the tournament started, I told him if I win this tournament, I can't jump in the water.   You have to jump in the water.   I can't.   I'm very scared.   But he said, you don't have to think about that.   After you win, you have to figure it out. 
So even this year I talked to my caddie.   But, you know, if I win this tournament, I think I can do it.

Q.   Why are you so afraid of water?   Why are you scared of water? 
NA YEON CHOI:   When I was young, 4 or 5 years old, I think I was in the lake with my family.   But I think I fell down in the water, and I almost died and my father saved me.

Q.   Is jumping in the water scarier than trying to catch Yani right now?   Can you talk about how well Yani is playing golf at the moment? 
NA YEON CHOI:   I think to catch Yani is more difficult.   I'm really scared of the water, but I think when she's playing well, she looks like a very intimidating player, I think.   She plays so well this day and last week and two weeks ago.   I mean, she's an amazing player right now.

Q.   Is she beatable right now?   Can you beat her? 
NA YEON CHOI:   I couldn't tell you.   She's playing so well and there are a lot people chasing her right now, so nobody knows.

Q.   A lot of players the other day talked about the difficulty of the greens out here and even though you're feeling better with a new putter, did you struggle with them at all?   What is your impression of them? 
NA YEON CHOI:   The greens conditions are very great.   The speed is perfect at every tournament.   So for me, it's not much difficult. 
I think I know the course well, even the greens.   I have a lot of lines on my yardage book.   I just trust my yardage book, the lines.   When my caddie tells me about a line, I always trust that.   I just think about my target. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT