RR DONNELLEY LPGA FOUNDERS CUP
March 18, 2012
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   All right.   We'd like to welcome Na Yeon Choi into the interview room.   I know it probably wasn't the result that you were hoping for today, but can you just take me through what was kind of a crazy day full of delays and hail and some wild weather out there today.
NA YEON CHOI:   It was so like long day, and then it was a really tough day.   I mean I'm really cold right now, so I can't speak.
I think today we had like really great match, like me and Yani and Ai.   I was very excited to play with them. 
Yeah, I finished runner up, but you know, it just happened.   I think next week or next time it will come to me.   So I don't have any regret for today.   Just weather was so bad.   But you know, just I like to ‑‑ I mean right now I'm finished, so I'm very happy, and congratulations to Yani.
THE MODERATOR:   Can you take me through that 18th hole and you guys had darkness falling outside, and Yani went into it with a one‑stroke lead.   What were your thoughts on 18? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Actually, yeah, it was really dark on 18, but I was very happy to finish it today.   And then she hit the putt first, then me on the green.   And then I saw her ball move to the right, and then I tried to ‑‑ because I couldn't see very well because it was so dark, so I tried to the same putt as Yani, but my speed was short.   I couldn't think about like slow, slow of the green, so my speed wasn't perfect, but I'm finished today. 
THE MODERATOR:   How far was your putt on 18 would you say? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Almost ten yards.   Yeah, so 30 feet. 
THE MODERATOR:   Take me through that Back 9 when Yani got off to ‑‑ it seemed really close when you guys were heading back out there after that second delay and you were on 10 and then Yani got on that tear where she birdied five out of six holes.   What are your thoughts when you see her start to go on runs like that? 
NA YEON CHOI:   She's amazing.   I mean she plays so well.   She never ‑‑ I mean she looks never nervous or pressure on her.   So I think she's ‑‑ she has a lot of confidence right now. 
I think ‑‑ I don't know who can stop her right now.   I mean she's so amazing, and she hit it really far.   Me and Ai, we tried to like our best, but she's pretty far away from us. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Na Yeon? 

Q.   Were you outside when it was hailing?   Did you see the hail?
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah.

Q.   Have you experienced that before?
NA YEON CHOI:   Actually, that was my first time playing with the hail. 
THE MODERATOR:   Overall, how tough is it when you are playing on days like this where it's delay after delay?   Did you feel like you still were able to find a rhythm and are you still pretty pleased by the way you were able to handle yourself through that.
NA YEON CHOI:   I mean I tried my best because my body is not flexible when I got delayed, so I have to do a lot of stretches on the course, and then I tried to accept this weather. 
Like when I got this happened the first time, I think it was very difficult, but right now I think I'm used to it.   So it was okay, just a little cold out there.
Actually, I got a little problem, my back little hurts from last night.   So I have to find out what happened to my back.   I was so hurt, painful out there, because I think the weather is cold, too.   So that's why I got more painful in my back.
THE MODERATOR:   Is there anything that you could do to kind of help the back throughout the round? 
NA YEON CHOI:   I put a heat patch on all day, but because the weather is too cold, so it's not very working.
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Any more questions for Na Yeon?   Thank you very much.
NA YEON CHOI:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT