RR DONNELLEY LPGA FOUNDERS CUP
March 16, 2012
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Congratulations.   Another solid round for you today.   
NA YEON CHOI:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   Again, same stuff as yesterday?   Did the round feel similar?  
NA YEON CHOI:   Well, I got only one birdie front nine.   I was good patient, and then today I had only three birdies, but without bogey, so I think that's the main thing.  
I'm very satisfied what I did today, and then weather is good like yesterday, but I heard tomorrow and Sunday the weather will be a little cold ‑‑ cold and windy, so I have to prepare for that, and then I think I'm in good position right now, but I have two more rounds, but I have great feeling in my game lately, so I'm really looking forward to this week.  
   
 Q.   Like you said, the weather is supposed to change.   How much will that kind of weather affect this golf course?   How much will it change your approach to it?  
NA YEON CHOI:   I heard tomorrow will be a lot of windy.   I think if windy with this course I have to hit the fairway first and then just green.   I think main thing is no double bogey or like bogey.   So I will try par first.   
So I don't know how much windy tomorrow, but it will be difficult.   
   
 Q.   I know it's only after two rounds, but it's pretty bunched up there at the top with Yani up there again?  
NA YEON CHOI:   A lot of good people.  
   
 Q.   Do you guys get used to seeing Yani up there week in and week out and do you change your approach at all when you see her up there at the top of the leaderboard?  
NA YEON CHOI:   Not really.   Sometimes when I see leaderboard and Yani, she is there, you feel like ‑‑ I mean honestly intimidating, but I can't take control of her, right?   So I have to try to accept that happen, and I just try and play my game, and I can't control her right now.   I mean she's so playing well, so I just try and do my best every time, and I don't know, maybe some good results will come.   
   
 Q.   Any difference today playing in the afternoon compared to playing in the morning?   Did you notice a change in the golf course?  
NA YEON CHOI:   I think the green is a little slower than the front nine.   I think so.   I hit it a little shorter than cup with my putter, so I have to think about that the next two days.  
   
 Q.   Perfect.   Thank you very much.   
NA YEON CHOI:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT