RR DONNELLEY LPGA FOUNDERS CUP
March 15, 2012
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   All right.   We'd like to welcome Na Yeon Choi into the interview room.   Congratulations on a great round today, 5‑under par 67.   Can you take me through the round a little bit and what was working for you out there today?   
NA YEON CHOI:   Well, I had one bogey out there, but I got six birdies, and my shot was great.   And my putter speed was great.   And weather was perfect, and my group, we talked a lot, and I had a fun game today.   
I think everything was clicking.  
THE MODERATOR:   You're coming off a runner‑up finish in Singapore.   How did you feel about your game coming into this week and overall so far in the first two tournaments that you've played in this year?   
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah.   I finished as runner‑up in Singapore, and then I think I got some confidence from that.   And then I went to Korea for two weeks.   I stayed with my mom and dad, and I think I had great week off in Korea.   
I mean I went to my coach in Korea last week and he said my swing looks great, and everything is working great.   So I don't think too much.   I just think target.   And you know, I think my game feeling is great right now.  
THE MODERATOR:   You've been so consistent over the last few years.   How will you go into the off season?   Is it hard to even think about changing things when you've been able to put together so many Top 10 finishes and play so consistently?   
NA YEON CHOI:   Well, I just try to improve everything.   I mean I never tried to stay there.   Like always I tried to learn something or improve my swing or technical, you know, body feeling.   
I mean I never stop, and always I try to learn from some mistake, so I mean every year I had great wintertime, so I don't know.   Like always I play consistently.  
THE MODERATOR:   I know you've moved up to No. 2 in the world.   We all know how far ahead Yani is of all of you guys right now.   But do you think about chasing her?   I mean is that something that goes through your mind when you're playing or is that a goal?   I know Suzann Pettersen always says that her goal is to be No. 1 in the world.   Is that something you have in the back of your mind?   
NA YEON CHOI:   My goal is to be No. 1 in the world, but I've never tried to be there.   Just I do my game, or every time I know what I have to do working on.   So I never try control results.   
So it will come true or I think some future things.   So I'm not going to try too much right now.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Na Yeon.   
   
 Q.   How did you find the course today?  
NA YEON CHOI:   Well, actually this is my first time playing this course.   I think course is very firm, even fairway and greens.   So I think I have to choose my club very well because sometimes greens are very firm.   So I have to ball landing very precisely.   
So I think the main thing is club choosing in this course.  
   
 Q.   Is it hard with the thin air and the warm temperatures to judge your distance control?  
NA YEON CHOI:   It's not difficult, but I have to think a lot on the course.   
   
 Q.   You've won five times, and you almost never miss a cut.   You're just always there.   What would you like to get better at this year?  
NA YEON CHOI:   Win more than last couple years.   
I mean like always I want to improve everything.   Like driver consistently or accurate with my iron or driver, putting stroke.   Like everything.   So like I don't want to stop here.   So I want to move up.   So like every day, every time I try working hard.   
   
 Q.   How important is the mental part of the game to you?  
NA YEON CHOI:   I think very important.   I mean even today I saw my mental coach here, Pia and Lynn.   And Pia, she was following my group on the Back 9.   I mean she didn't tell me, she didn't even look at me, anything, but it feels very different, I think.   
It's something ‑‑ I mean I know she's my team, so something like gave me some good feelings.   So always it helped me a lot.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned Pia and Lynn.   Was there a reason that you selected them as your coaches, and does it have anything to do with they were Annika's coaches?  
NA YEON CHOI:   Actually, I met them 2009 at Samsung World Championship.   That was my first tour win on LPGA Tour.   And then the time I met them first time.   So I think we are a good ‑‑ we had a good session before that tournament.   And then I had a great result there.   So after that I got some great feeling with them.   So I couldn't stop with them, and like I tried to see them very often during the season and get some good stuff from them.   
THE MODERATOR:   Any other questions for Na Yeon?   All right.   Thank you very much for joining us today.   Best of luck the rest of the week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT