HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 23, 2012
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MIKE SCANLAN:   We would like to welcome Na Yeon Choi to the interview room at the HSBC Women's Champions.   A 4‑under par 68 in the first round; if you would, just tell us about your day today.
NA YEON CHOI:   Well, very hot out there, and I had I think a pretty solid day, like the first day.   I had one bogey on 16, but you know, I really don't have any regret for that shot. 
And then I tried to focus on my game and then I tried to trust myself, and then me and my caddie, we worked very hard today. 
MIKE SCANLAN:   You said just before that after last week, you, and Paul, your caddie, kind of refocussed on your game.   What kind of things did you talk about? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Well, actually like every beginning of the year, like first couple of tournaments, I had a very hard time for trusting myself. 
So after last week, I talked to my caddie.   Like I feel I couldn't trust myself last week in the third round and fourth round, and then he said, "Please, like when you felt something, just tell me and then we will figure out on the course.   I will try to encourage you."     
So I think like after bogey, he tried to, you know, encourage me and I think that was helping me. 
MIKE SCANLAN:   After the round, the fans really came to you.   They really support you.   How good does it feel to have such great fans here in Singapore? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Well, this is one of my favourite cities in Singapore.   I mean, this is like fifth year, my fifth time I've been here, and then some fans and some friends are here, so they always support me.   So I feel great here, and it feels like‑‑ it reminds me of home. 

Q.   You said you had a bogey, but you didn't have any regrets for that shot.   Can you describe that shot? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Okay.   That hole, actually if I hit a solid driver, I can reach it on the green from the tee shot.   But I missed to the right side of the pin and the pin was like three yards off the right. 
So the pin position was very difficult for my second shot.   And I tried a flop shot for the second shot, and I hit a little decel and my ball was short and my ball went into the bunker.   I kind of missed the shot, but I don't have regret; I didn't have any choice for that situation.   So I tried to trust that shot but I‑‑ I had a bogey but still I think I had a good round. 

Q.   How do you like playing out there when it's really hot, hot?
NA YEON CHOI:   Singapore reminds me of Seoul, like big city, tall buildings, a lot of people work hard.   Singapore is one of my favourite cities.   I mean, when I play in here, I have a lot of friends, Singaporean friends, and some friends always support me.   I think that helps me a lot. 

Q.   Did you find the weather challenging today? 
NA YEON CHOI:   I did last week already.   I played like this hot weather, so I think I'm used to it right now. 

Q.   How do you take care of yourself when you're travelling, anything special? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Well, no, not really.   Maybe I travel with a lot of suitcase.   I travel with my trainer and my caddie, so‑‑
MIKE SCANLAN:   Do you work out on the road? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, that's why I hire my trainer.   So I try to drink a lot of water on even the airplane and when I get here, I try to work out three or four times a week.   I try to keep healthy. 

Q.   Have you tried any local food yet? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Not yet.   Not yet. 
MIKE SCANLAN:   Well, you're used to the hot weather, because last year you won the Sime Darby event in Malaysia and it's always warm in Kuala Lumpur; right? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Actually I have a little sun allergy, like here (indicating).   But I think when I play in hot, warm weather, I feel better, a lot better than when I play in cold weather.   So you know, even in decent‑‑ hit it further, and my body conditioning is a little flexible.   So I feel better. 

Q.   The sun allergy, is that in hot weather or cold weather? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Hot weather, because I think it's too humid, so I feel really like painful like under my eye. 
MIKE SCANLAN:   Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT