CME GROUP TITLEHOLDERS
November 18, 2011
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome our current leader, Na Yeon Choi, into the interview room. Another solid round today. I know it was very tough out there, very windy conditions. Can you just take me through the round and how you were able to kind of keep things together out there? 
 NA YEON CHOI: Yeah, I had a very up-and-down day today. I started double bogey the first hole, and then I got a birdie on the fourth hole and then I got some momentum from there. So I finished the round and I never gave up. I don't know, on the first hole, I think my putting speed wasn't very quick, so I got a four-putt there. Actually my driver shot was great, second shot was great, the putt was ten feet, and I had a four-putt there. I was very disappointed, but I tried to forget that one, and then I finished strong. 

 Q. When it's windy out there, I've been asking a lot of players this, but when it's that windy does it change your approach at all? Do you have to be much more focused on where you're hitting it and kind of have a different plan than maybe on a day where the wind isn't blowing so hard?
 NA YEON CHOI: Especially today the wind did a lot of switching, so when I choose the club I have to trust that club and just swing hard, or when my caddie gave me a number, I just trust that number and just see the target and hit it like normally. It was a very tough day today. 

 Q. I was just wondering what you thought, what was going through your mind when the four-putt finally finished on No. 1 and you were heading to the second tee. 
 NA YEON CHOI: I think -- I don't know, I couldn't think of anything. My head was kind of like blank. But my caddie kept encouraging me. Maybe that happens better than like I had double bogey on 10 or the back nine. Still, we have to play like 17 holes, so just -- you have to forget that hole and then restart on the second hole. Actually I think I controlled my emotions good today. I was calm.

 Q. And with the tough conditions today and a lot of movement forward and backward on the leaderboard, do you watch the leaderboard to see where things are going, or does it just get too confusing at times? 
 NA YEON CHOI: Yeah, I watched every leaderboard. I watched every hole. And then I told my caddie, we have to accept this day, like very hard today, so a lot of players or even me would be having hard -- like difficult day. Me and my caddie, we tried to accept what's going on on the course, and then we tried our best. 

 Q. When you're watching, before you even tee off and you see some high numbers kind of going up there, were you aware of that before you even teed off? Did you pay attention that there were some high scores going up early on?
 NA YEON CHOI: No, before I teed up I didn't watch the leaderboard, but I knew it like on the driving range during my warm-up. My ball was moving a lot. I thought it was going to be a hard day. 

 Q. I had asked you yesterday just about your game overall, but what's been the biggest key the last few tournaments for you to turn things around? I know things started at the British, but the last few tournaments you've seemed to even be mentally stronger. 
 NA YEON CHOI: I think I am very happy. It's almost over, the season, like I can take rest after this week. I feel like I have only two more days, just two more days, focus hard, work hard and do my best and then done. That's why I think I feel very happy and feel very comfortable. 

 Q. You'll be playing with Sandra Gal tomorrow. Have you played much with her? What do you think of her game? 
 NA YEON CHOI: I mean, I didn't play with her much. Well, I don't know her actually. We are actually neighbors. We live in the same area, but I can't remember what she's playing. 

 Q. What do you expect for the weekend? As tough as conditions are, are you expecting more of the same?
 NA YEON CHOI: I mean, I will not change any of my game strategy the next two days. I will just try and have more fun with the caddie or partner and then I'm happy to see my swing coach. He's coming every day to here. I think I feel great when I see my swing coach. He followed all my group today. He followed my group, so I'm very happy when I see him. I feel kind of like something confidence. I hope he is coming the next two days, too, and then I'm really looking forward the next two days, and yeah, I hope good results and fish I a good season. 

 Q. Having the lead with 36 holes still to go, is that a comfortable spot, or is that one of those you still kind of look over your shoulder and watch the scoreboard every chance you get? 
 NA YEON CHOI: To be honest it's not comfortable. I know I played well the last two days, like today and yesterday, but still, I have to play two more days. Who knows after the first round. I'll never change my goal or my strategy or that kind of, so I'll just keep doing what I did the last two days. Yeah, I don't know. I hope just get good results on Sunday. 

 Q. Your coach is Kevin?
 NA YEON CHOI: Kevin Smeltz. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much, Na Yeon. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT