CME GROUP TITLEHOLDERS
November 17, 2011
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome our leader Na Yeon Choi into the interview room. Congratulations on a great round, 66. Can you first off just take me through your day and what was a great back nine for you.  
 NA YEON CHOI: Yeah, I had a pretty solid day today, and Orlando is my hometown, and then I feel really comfortable when I'm here because I have great memories from last year. I had a trophy last year after this tournament, so I have a great feeling with this course. I think that's why I played well today.   
 THE MODERATOR: Can you take me through some of those holes on the back nine? Any key birdies for you that really got you going.  
 NA YEON CHOI: Well, I had five birdies on the back nine, and then I think Morgan, she played well, too, and then when she hit close to the pin or when she made a birdie putt, I think something motivated me, I could do it, too. I had fun playing with Morgan and Sun Young, and then I don't know, something -- I think everything clicked on the back nine.  
 THE MODERATOR: I know you won a few events back in Malaysia and your game seems to be coming around. How much better do you feel about your game right now as opposed to earlier in the season when you were off to a slower start?   
 NA YEON CHOI: I think from after the British Open I had a great feeling about my game. After that I played like consistently, I think, and then especially at Mizuno I had a great final round. I shot 8-under par. And then I think I took something from Mizuno to here.   
 And then I changed a club; I switched the 5-iron to a 5 hybrid, and then I think -- I hit like five or six times I hit with that new club, and then I made four birdies with that club. I like that new club.   
  
  Q. Today's round you converted five birdies after using the 5 hybrid?  
 NA YEON CHOI: Yes.   
  
  Q. Why did you improve so much starting at the British Open? You had kind of a so-so start to the year and then here this last month or two you're playing like you did most of last year.   
 NA YEON CHOI: Well, my swing coach came to British Open from Korea, and then I met him at the British Open -- actually he's from Ireland, so he has a lot of skills with the links course, and then he gave me a lot of tips on the course. That's why I had great results there. And I think that's why I trusted my game, and then it was getting better.  
  
  Q. He got you straightened out at the British Open?  
 NA YEON CHOI: Yes.   
  
  Q. What is your schedule after this week?   
 NA YEON CHOI: After this week I'm going to Korea next Thursday and then take ten days off, and then I have one more tournament in Taiwan, so I have to go to Taiwan.  
  
  Q. You're playing in that Swinging Skirts?  
 NA YEON CHOI: Yes.  
  
  Q. And then after that?  
 NA YEON CHOI: After that I think I'm going to take a vacation.  
  
  Q. So how important is it to play well this week because you're only going to play one more time the next two or three months.   
 NA YEON CHOI: How important? I mean, this is the last tournament on the LPGA Tour. I really want to finish well this tournament, and then I want to achieve my goals for 2011. It's not only win. I want to feel satisfied after Sunday what I've played.  
  
  Q. Have you played here at all since last year at this golf course?  
 NA YEON CHOI: Yeah, January I played a couple times, yeah, this course.  
  
  Q. This has been a little bit of an off year for South Korean women. Do you think that's just a temporary lull as far as winning lots of tournaments?   
 NA YEON CHOI: I think so, and I hope so, too. They are practicing and hard-working. I think we have all great talent. I think we will bounce back next year.   
  
  Q. Last year there were a lot of players who were vying for Player of the Year this week on this course. What do you think it was about this year with Yani that separated her from everybody else?  
 NA YEON CHOI: Yani's game? Really, I can't find her weakness about her game, really. I can't find it. I mean, she's everything good, especially this year, and then looks very confident. I think she's playing aggressively and smartly, too. That's why she's playing very mature.   
 THE MODERATOR: We talked earlier in the year. You played with Yani back at the HSBC and then didn't play with her again until Korea. What was the biggest difference you saw from her in that early tournament and then late in the year.  
 NA YEON CHOI: I think walking big difference. She always is walking like chest like this. Yeah, I can see her confidence. When she's doing her routine, I can see -- she wants to try and smile when she walks to the ball, to the setup. It's kind of like scary. Really, she's trying her -- she's trying to control her emotion during the tournaments, so that was very -- yeah, impressed me.   
  
  Q. Those four, five hybrid shots today, were they all hit very close to the flagstick?   
 NA YEON CHOI: I think so. Most times my ball landed around 10 or 15 feet, yeah, especially like 17 I hit 5-wood, and 16 I hit a 5 hybrid.  
  
  Q. Do you have other hybrids in your bag?  
 NA YEON CHOI: I have 4, 3. It used to be -- I had a 5-iron until before the Mizuno Open, and then I switched to 5 hybrid at Mizuno Open and this week.  
  
  Q. Do you have other ones, though?  
 NA YEON CHOI: Yeah, 4 and 3.   
  
  Q. How far are you hitting that 5 hybrid? What's the distance for it?  
 NA YEON CHOI: I can hit 160 to 175 yards.   
  
  Q. What caused you to make the switch, just to get the ball in the air more?  
 NA YEON CHOI: I thought I needed a more high trajectory with the 5-iron, so I switched to 5 hybrid, and it gave me more options.   
  
  Q. And this year the course, obviously it's a lot warmer than it was last year. How differently is the course playing?   
 NA YEON CHOI: I think the course is softer than last year, and then the greens are -- I mean, I checked the weather last night. I was so hot today, I wear the long pants and long shirt. I mean, the weather, it said only 50 degrees, so I was very hot today, but the course was softer than yesterday, so I think it played easier than last year.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much for joining us, and best of luck the rest of the week.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT