SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 16, 2011
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   KELLY THESIER: We welcome the 2011 Sime Darby LPGA Malaysia Champion, Na Yeon Choi into the interview room. Congratulations. Your first victory on the LPGA Tour in 2011. I know you've been close a number of times. How great does it feel today to come through with that victory?   
 NA YEON CHOI: I mean, I was nervous when I started today but starting on 15 -- Yani got birdie, birdie, I was nervous, like from 6, 7, 8, I was so nervous, but I had a great --  
 KELLY THESIER: Last week you came very close in Korea to winning your third straight event there. Did you feel really good about your game coming into this week and how you were playing?   
 NA YEON CHOI: I think so. I took some from last week -- I had a great experience from last week. And then I mean, I didn't mind last week -- (Inaudible.) And then this week, I had a great feeling about my game. I played so well this week.   
 KELLY THESIER: I talked Yani about the last two weeks coming down to the two of you and what that was like. How much fun was it competing with her? And when you do see her name moving up the leaderboard, does that change at all your thought process?   
 NA YEON CHOI: I keep watching the leaderboard today, and she's so great player, especially these weeks, I think she makes me like more nervous. But it's a great experience. I'm very happy what I got this week, and then next week I'm going to Taiwan, so hope to bring this to next week.  
 KELLY THESIER: Last year you had such a tremendous year, winning the Money List and finishing with the lowest stroke average on the LPGA Tour. Did you feel any pressure when you started off this year to kind of back up what you had done last year?   
 NA YEON CHOI: I think so. I think when I started at the beginning of this year, I think I put so much pressure on myself. Now I just keep trying, less pressure on myself. So I think finally, I won.   
 KELLY THESIER: The last two months, you've been consistent all year but the last two months particularly you've been playing really well. What do you think has been the biggest difference in your game over that stretch?   
 NA YEON CHOI: I'm not sure exactly but I try -- you know, I just keep saying to myself, I can't control about results. Just play one shot at a time, every hole do my best.   
  
  Q. (Can you talk about your caddie)?   
 NA YEON CHOI: I think my caddie helps me a lot. Keeps me -- (Inaudible.) I try to keep myself but -- I think that I had a great experience from this week, you know, nobody can buy -- nobody can buy his experience.   
  
  Q. You seemed to be getting closer as the round went on, on your approach shots, you seemed to get more aggressive as the round went along?  
 NA YEON CHOI: The main thing is I have to trust in myself. And I didn't trust in myself, and when my caddie gave me -- I trust to hit the shot. I can't control about results, so I just try the same thing every shot, and then it goes in or not, doesn't matter. That's my game.   
  
  Q. How long has he been your caddie?  
 NA YEON CHOI: 2 1/2 years. And I won six times. I think we are a good partner.   
  
  Q. The conversation between and you him --  
 NA YEON CHOI: I think today was like me and my caddie, we worked very well. Like every time I trust him, he's got the number. Like every time, I just trust.   
  
  Q. Out of your wins, where does this rank for you? Like in terms of is this the best one or does it mean more to you having gone for a while?  
 NA YEON CHOI: I think -- I can't remember. Like amazing, everything in that moment.   
  
  Q. And this week, having gone for a while without a victory does it seem a little more special to be back in the winner's circle?  
 NA YEON CHOI: Actually this win, it's the 100th time a Korean player has won. And I won my sixth tournament and a hundred times for all of the Korean players. So very nice.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 NA YEON CHOI: I hit driver tee shot and my driver landed outside the fairway and I hit 6-iron to the pin, I think 156 yards and then I hit a little control with the 6-iron for the second shot and my putt was 40 feet, left-to-right.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.).   
 NA YEON CHOI: I think so. I mean, I was so nervous, so right side of the pin, the heather is there, so I couldn't go at the pin. So I just go -- I don't know, maybe I play, like aimed left.   
  
  Q. Inaudible.  
 NA YEON CHOI: I don't know why. I try hard over time. I don't know, actually I feel I don't want to think about like the past. So I feel great right now. I have confidence. So I want to go next week and then do my best again.   
 KELLY THESIER: Thank you very much and congratulations again.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT