SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 15, 2011
Na Yeon Choi
Azahara Munoz
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: We have a little special treat today. We've got three players in here, all of them up near the top of the leaderboard. 
 We've got Rolex Rankings No. 1 Yani Tseng all the way to my left; our leader, Na Yeon Choi; and Aza Munoz. You played together today and all have a chance at winning tomorrow. Kind of fun. Could be quite an interesting day out there on the golf course tomorrow. 
 Can you guys tell me a little bit about your days and what you're looking forward to the most.
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Well, today I start pretty good. I make four birdies in the first seven holes, but then I struggle a little bit. But I made a good birdie on 16, so that kind of helped out. 
 You know, we had a really good time. I really like them, these two. We have a lot players up on top of the leaderboard, so it should be interesting tomorrow. 
 NA YEON CHOI: Yeah, I enjoy with them, too. And then we had another long day. And then actually my putter was really cold like beginning of today, but I got birdie on 9 and 10, so I got some momentum from there. 
 So I played very well today, and I'm very satisfied today. I'm very excited that I'm here, and then I'm going to looking forward for tomorrow. 
 YANI TSENG: I enjoy being out there be them. I'm four shot back, so tomorrow I still have one more day to go. This is a great golf course. It's going to be (indiscernible) tomorrow and try to make more putts and see how the day goes.
 MODERATOR: Yani, you're coming off your sixth win of the season last week and you're playing well. How are you feeling about your game right now and where you sit, not being quite at the top of the leaderboard? 
 YANI TSENG: (Indiscernible.) Started playing good, trying to make birdies, and putting and trying to (indiscernible).
 So tomorrow I just going to try to relax and then just (indiscernible).
 MODERATOR: Na Choi, nine top ten finishes and still no victory. How are you feeling about now being up at the top of the leaderboard again heading into the final round of another championship? 
 NA YEON CHOI: Well, I think I have good feel about my game late lately. I played good last week, but she played well more than me. That's why I finished the runner-up. 
 But I should be doing all right, and then I have great feeling.
 MODERATOR: Aza, you're looking for your first opportunity to become a Rolex first-time winner. How do you feel being close to the top of the leaderboard and hopefully getting that first victory? 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah, it's been a long time on the LPGA since I was close on the leaderboard. I've been close in Europe, but not in the States. You know, I'm just really excited. I'm just going to go out there and try to enjoy it, one shot at a time, like Yani said, and whatever it is happens is gonna be. 
 MODERATOR: You were rookie of the year last year, played very well, and kind of got off to a slower start this year. What's been the biggest difference lately in your playing well and putting together better scores?
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah, I was making swing changes, and I did them in April, so it took me quite a while to start hitting the ball good. Like today I didn't make many putts, but I'm hitting the ball really well. 
 So if I keep giving myself chances tomorrow and I make a few good putts...
 MODERATOR: You've dealt with delays the last few days. How has that changed your approach at all? How did you get through the long delays and get your focus back? 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: It is what it is. Nothing you can do. I mean, was just in there with my fiends trying to (indiscernible) the time, laugh about it. Thank God we finished. It was just a mess. I thought we weren't gonna finish, so I'm just happy we got done. Tomorrow hopefully we play early. 
 MODERATOR: Is there anything specific to you during the rain delay that you did? 
 GOLFER: Eat a couple times. 
 Questions.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Today for me I was actually quite happy, because I made two bogeys, you know, and my round wasn't going exactly how I wanted. So when they called it off, I was thinking, you have to take it as a good thing. When you get back, you will be fresh and ready to go. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 NA YEON CHOI: The delays, they bother me. I know can't be control about weather so I have to accept like. I mean really nothing change. Just keep doing. 
 YANI TSENG: For me I made birdies, but I wish I keep going. It's okay. (Indiscernible.)
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yesterday was worse because it was really dark. Today was actually light so didn't really bother yesterday. I felt the greens were really hard to read, but it was really dark. Light makes shadow. I mean, it gets tricky. But today I was(indiscernible.)

 Q. (No microphone.)
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah, probably. 
 MODERATOR: (No microphone.) 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: But I think we were all happy to finish. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: I think the greens are slower. Maybe I was just hitting it...
 The fairways not so much. It's pretty wet out there.
 MODERATOR: All right, thanks for joining me and good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT