SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 13, 2011
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You had a great round. 
 NA YEON CHOI: Thank you.

 Q. I know last week you played so well at Hana Bank. How much did you take from last week into this first round? 
 NA YEON CHOI: I finished the runner-up last week, but I think I still -- I learned something from last week. I think that was a great experience too. So I'm very happy with what I did last week. 
 Then today I started with a bogey on fifth hole, but I just bounced back on six. I got birdie. So I think I feel great from last week and this week too, so I don't know. The course looks great, and I think right now everything suits me well.

 Q. Does this course suit your game? Do you feel pretty good on this course? 
 NA YEON CHOI: I think so. Not like a really long course, I mean, it's pretty short. And then I reached it in two on par-5, 6th. So it's not really a tough course, I think. 5-under par would do six birdies. 
 But I still feel like one or two putts missed it out there, so that means the course is not difficult. Just the weather is so hot, so I think I need to take a good rest for the next three days. Yeah, I think the course is great for me.

 Q. Overall with your game right now, are you pretty pleased with how you're playing and how your swing's feeling? 
 NA YEON CHOI: Yeah, I think it's good. I mean, I played well the last two months. I finished in contention almost every week, so I feel great about my game. Especially today, I hit very well with the long putt, so that's why I hit a lower score.

 Q. You played consistent almost all year long, it's typical. But you seem to play really well over in Asia, with the Asian swings. Is there a comfort level here that you have? Do you like these golf courses? 
 NA YEON CHOI: I don't know. I mean, I feel comfortable with Asia, but I think the main reason is I kept playing this year. I just started it -- I think I need something to motivate me to play well. 
 I think that was from the British Open, I met my swing coach over there like last time I met him a long time ago, and I met him again at the British Open. I then I had a great result over there, so after that I felt some confidence from the British Open. 
 Then I kept trust me well and play aggressively. So I think I needed some -- I mean, every year in the beginning of the season play so-so and then getting better, better. So I think my style is gradually getting better at the end of the year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT