LPGA HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 8, 2011
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Another nice round.   
 NA YEON CHOI: Thank you.  
  
  Q. So just take me through another bogey-free day. You have to feel pretty good about that.   
 NA YEON CHOI: Yeah, I had another great day today, to bogeys. Weather was great, and the pairing was fun, my group. I feel I missed something on the 18th green. It was almost a birdie chance, and a chance for the reading for tomorrow. But I just missed it.  
 But I'm still satisfied with today and I'm really looking forward to tomorrow floor a three-peat.   
  
  Q. How long was that putt that you missed on 18?  
 NA YEON CHOI: Three feet.   
  
  Q. Just one of those --  
 NA YEON CHOI: Actually, that pin was exactly the same as last year and two years ago, the final round pin. I thought they were going to put it on there tomorrow, but they put it today. It remind -- the good memories reminded me today, I have good memories of this course, and especially that pin. But I think maybe, I don't know, maybe too much pressure.   
  
  Q. So going into tomorrow, right near the lead, having that chance at a three-peat, how good do you feel about that?  
 NA YEON CHOI: I'm very excited to play tomorrow. I don't know who I'm going to play tomorrow.   
 But yeah, I'm very excited, and you know, the people, big crowd will be here, and tomorrow, too. So I'm very happy that I'm Korean and the tournament is in Korea. I'm very proud.   
 You know, like my goal is after tomorrow, I don't want to regret for what I play tomorrow. So I will do my best tomorrow and enjoy my game.  
  
  Q. What is it about this golf course that seems to bring out the best in your game?   
 NA YEON CHOI: I don't know, I think just I know the course well. Really, I know the course well, and I know the grass well and even on the greens, the lines, everything. So that's why I'm really comfortable with this course. So I think that's the key.   
  
  Q. And it's nice to be home, right?  
 NA YEON CHOI: Yeah.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT