LPGA HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 7, 2011
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Take me through your round.   
 NA YEON CHOI: Today I didn't have a bogey. I just got five birdies. That means it's a perfect game today. I'm very satisfied today and I was really expecting how Yani played today. Last time we played, I think HSBC in February, so after that, she is ranking No. 1 right now. She looks totally different person, very strong and confident walking, everything. I'm very impressed with her playing today. I'm very satisfied at what I played today, too.   
  
  Q. Do you feed off that? When you see her playing so well, and her confidence level, do you kind of get some of that, too?  
 NA YEON CHOI: Intimidating?   
  
  Q. Not intimidating, but do you start feeling that yourself, when you're playing with someone who is playing well?  
 NA YEON CHOI: Yeah, I think it actually more motivates me. If she is walking stronger or confidence, when I saw that, I have to do like same like her, confidence walking or my upper body like stronger.   
  
  Q. For you, what's it like being home? The crowds in your group are great.   
 NA YEON CHOI: I love to play in Korea. I had a friend's family and everybody came to here and support me today. I'm very excited to play with big crowd and I mean, I saw some Taiwan fans are over here.   
 I think it's very nice they came to here because it's close to Taiwan, they came to here and support Yani and some Koreans support to Yani, too. I feel better than if they just support only just Korean. I think it was a very -- I enjoyed it today with Yani. We talked a lot. It was nice.   
  
  Q. We talked about the three-peat, as two-time defending champion, did you feel that at all when you teed off today? Do you put that in the back of your mind and not worry too much about it?   
 NA YEON CHOI: I mean, I try less pressure on myself but still some pressure in my heart and in my head. Really I tried that pressure in a good way. It's more focus or really try more than 100 percent every shot. It was good today, everything, like emotion control, everything was good today.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT