LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 15, 2015
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   5‑under today with the wind.   How happy are you with your round today?  
NA YEON CHOI:   I really tried to enjoy with this weather.   I mean, sunny, you know, a little bit windy, but it's a great place to relax on the course.  
I think this is like first time I really relax on the course this year, so I think that's why I played well.   I really enjoyed it.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
NA YEON CHOI:   I don't know why, but just like this area just make me kind of chill out, relax.   I can see so many different things on the course like water, flower.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Just ease your mind, take your mind off the pressure, I guess.   
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah be, especially we had a week off last week after the first major.   Kind of like good time to break my mental brain.  
So I had a good week off and then I just came here.   It was windy, but it's very usual, like normal every day like wind.   Wind direction is very consistent, so I have experience last two years.  
I mean, just like I like to play here.   I got some friends in Hawaii and they came here rooting for me.   I quite enjoyed it.   
   
 Q.   Looking at your scorecard you took advantage of the par‑5s, but (indiscernible) the par‑3s.   
NA YEON CHOI:   I didn't see any scorecard today, but, yeah, I mean, I missed a lot of fairway.   So like after this I want to practice a little bit for my driver.  
But today my iron shot was great.   I had one 3‑putt, but still I made a lot of birdies and a lot of putts.   Yeah, I mean, obviously I made birdie ‑‑ two birdies on par‑3 I think today.   (Wind interference.)  
   
 Q.   First one was on No.4, I think, the par‑3.   What did you hit there and how close were you?   
NA YEON CHOI:   No.4 I hit 7‑iron.   Yeah, I hit 7‑iron.   
   
 Q.   How far was the putt?   
NA YEON CHOI:   My putt was 12 feet.   Yeah, it was kind of uphill easy straight putt.   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   And I think another one on No. 8.   
NA YEON CHOI:   No. 8 I hit 8‑iron and my putt was like ten feet.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
NA YEON CHOI:   No, that was a little bit right to left and a little bit down.   
   
 Q.   Pretty breezy all day today?  
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, well, when we start in the morning it was calmer than this, but after five, six holes kind of wind blowing start.   I didn't expect that much wind today when I checked weather.   
Same as yesterday.   Always in the afternoon it's more blowing wind.   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   I think tomorrow you go out in the afternoon.   
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Are you prepared for that now?  
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah.   I think when you try to against the wind, I think something always bad happens, so I try to use the wind.   Sometimes bogey should be good score, so I just need be smart with the wind.   
   
 Q.   You were talking about a little earlier the week off really helped you relax.   What did you do in the week off?  
NA YEON CHOI:   I stayed in California for a week and I just relaxed there.   Got massage and shopping, just walk around Beverly Hills, Santa Monica.   
   
 Q.   Good week then.   
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, good week.  
   
 Q.   How many friends did you have in attendance in Hawaii?  
NA YEON CHOI:   Not many, but she's Korean.   
   
 Q.   All right.   
NA YEON CHOI:   Her family just came here today.   Actually we went to skydiving on Saturday.   
   
 Q.   Really?   
NA YEON CHOI:   I got here Saturday‑‑ no, I got here Friday, and I don't know.   I don't know I can say this or not, but we went skydiving on Saturday.   I went on the plane.   I went up like 14,000 feet, but I couldn't jump out.   I was so scared.   So I kind of failed, but my friend, she jumped out.  
   
 Q.   You saw her down on the ground.   
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah.   Actually, she land first to me.   I took a plane from the sky to the ground, but she was already down there.   But I enjoyed it.   
She helped me a lot.   She prepare the house this year and car.   Everything.   Food.  
   
 Q.   Are you staying with them?  
NA YEON CHOI:   No.   Actually, she rent a house here for me, so I stay in there.   She cooked some Korean food for me.   It feels nice.   Feels like home.  
   
 Q.   That's great.   Golf a lot easier than skydiving?  
NA YEON CHOI:   I think golf is easier, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT