SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 20, 2011
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome our leader, Na Yeon Choi into the interview room. Congratulations on winning your round today, 2-under 69, and you're leading entering the final day. Can you just take me through your round today, and what was working well for you.  
 NA YEON CHOI: Okay. First of all, I would like to thank you all the media after interview yesterday I ran out my interview, and I know you guys compliment me for my English, so I would like to thank you.   
 And then today, yeah, was really warm out there, and then wind was very switching a lot and it was a lot firmer than yesterday. So sometimes really hard to stop the ball on the green.   
 But I felt very comfortable and confident out there. I don't know what reason, actually comfortable than yesterday. And I was very calm until last hole. That's why I played well today.  
 THE MODERATOR: I was talking to Ryann O'Toole earlier and she was talking about how low you were putting yesterday when she played with you. How have you been feeling about your putting this week?   
 NA YEON CHOI: Actually I hit seven straight birdies yesterday. There was like 15 between 25-foot putts. And today my putter wasn't great like yesterday, but I only missed the one short putt, and everything was great from my putter today.   
 I think I like these greens and I can see well these lines on the greens, so that's why I played well.   
 THE MODERATOR: How nice is it to see yourself back at the top of the leaderboard heading into the final round?   
 NA YEON CHOI: Actually I am very excited playing for tomorrow, and I was missing that feeling, you know. I'm very excited. I like this chance.  
  
  Q. How long do you think your eagle putt was on 10? How many feet do you think that was?  
 NA YEON CHOI: I think 10 feet, yeah.  
  
  Q. And you had a good putt on 11, too.   
 NA YEON CHOI: Yes. I think my shot was better than yesterday, you know. Wind was more than yesterday, but I got another chance today.   
 But I think just a little missed the putt, yeah.   
  
  Q. What's the biggest lead you've had entering into the final round?  
 NA YEON CHOI: I think yesterday my putt wasn't great. I think, you know, I just felt, again, putters are very important for golf, you know. And then after I played yesterday, yesterday after play I went to the putting green and then, you know, practiced more and tried to get more feeling about distance, and you know, stroke, everything.   
 I just felt again, you know, putting is very important to the game. That's why, you know, a lot of people practice a lot for putting.   
  
  Q. Do you know how many LPGA tournaments you've led going into the final round?  
 NA YEON CHOI: I remember last year I was leading one. And I only remember one. Yeah.   
  
  Q. Do you remember it being -- is it a lot of pressure to hold the lead?  
 NA YEON CHOI: I think so, but it is all positive, good things, you know. I like pressure, but you know, sometimes it just -- sometimes, you know, can be negative, but I try to think of positively, you know, and I just say to myself, this is a great opportunity to be win or, you know, to test for myself about golf game.   
  
  Q. You had a lot of wins and good times last year. Has it been a long time since you felt like that or do you draw on that tomorrow?   
 NA YEON CHOI: Actually, I talked to my swing coach yesterday and then I told my coach I feel a little scared to lose this chance. You know, I say this is my first time win to chance this year. And he say, this is not the first time. I had it four times before, so this is not -- this is a little bit like fifth time.   
 So you know, he say don't be scared, and I can't think about winning. So yeah, my instinct was like, okay, I'll do my best, and if I don't, it doesn't matter. Sometimes other players I can't control that. So just go out there and just hit some shots. That's it.  
  
  Q. Was it kind of a lecture that he gave you?  
 NA YEON CHOI: I'm sorry?   
  
  Q. Was it kind of a lecture that he gave you?  
 NA YEON CHOI: I don't know. Actually, I mean he's like five, six years my swing coach and sometimes mental coach, too, so I really trust him, and you know, always he gave -- he try to give me pep talk, you know, and you know, like help. When I talk with him like before a tournament every time I felt something good about it.   
  
  Q. Tomorrow will you try to keep shooting a low round or do you try to hold up to your lead?  
 NA YEON CHOI: I think I just start play like aggressive like today or yesterday, and then I will decide during tournament. But I think I will just -- main thing is just play my game, not their game, not her game. I want to play my game tomorrow.   
  
  Q. What is the name of your coach?  
 NA YEON CHOI: Robin Symes. He's from Irish, and then he live in Korea right now. I met him five, six years ago in Korea.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT