SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 19, 2011
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Na Yeon Choi to the interview room. 6-under par today, tough break on the 18th hole, but overall, a great day. Can you tell us how you played? 
 NA YEON CHOI: Yeah, I think actually I feel I want to go back 18 holes really. I think I had a great round, and I got a lot of birdies on the front nine. Actually until I started the 5 hole until 11, I got 7 straight birdies. That was my record, actually. I'm really happy with that. 
 I missed a putt on 18, but I'm really satisfied today. The weather was great, and I was really happy to play with Song-Hee.
 THE MODERATOR: Na Yeon, can you tell us about your year and how you played in 2011? 
 NA YEON CHOI: Yeah, I think I'm doing good. So far, so good. I had a great year last year. After last year I had a lot of pressure on myself from in Korea, sponsor, media, they want better results so I had a lot of pressure when I started this year. 
 But I tried to play LPGA tournaments, and I think I'm doing okay. You know, we have a lot of tournaments left, so I'm fine, I think.
 THE MODERATOR: You've been practicing hard and feeling pressure for golf, but what people don't realize is you've also been practicing very hard on your English. I think we can all see how much it's improved. Can you just talk about why you wanted to do that? 
 NA YEON CHOI: Yeah, actually I traveled this year -- I traveled with an English tutor and my own trainer, workout trainer. I don't know, actually. I didn't know that I am like a really dedicated person, but I think I needed it. I felt last year. 
 I don't know. I play in America, so I think I have to speak English well, and then I want a little more connection with the fans, American fans. So that's why I learned English.

 Q. You played well here last year too. What is it about this course that you like? 
 NA YEON CHOI: First thing I think I like just 54 holes game in this tournament. I like that. Actually, this year is better condition than last year, I think. You know, the greens are faster than last year and really clean, everything, grass. 
 Actually, this year is I think hardest. They changed the par-4 on 9 and No. 8 they moved the tee box all the way back. So I think actually this year is more difficult.

 Q. You mentioned earlier with about playing with Song-Hee. Are you guys really good friends? What did it mean to be able to -- did it help you around to be able to play with her? 
 NA YEON CHOI: Well, I met her when I was 11, and we grew up together. Actually a lot of times we had the same coach from in Korea and last year too, same trainer, same mental coach. They were in Orlando same area. 
 I think she's my best friend, and I think we really know each other, so I was very comfortable to play with her.

 Q. Can you take us through your seven straight birdies, and how are you feeling before or after three of them or four of them or whatever? 
 NA YEON CHOI: Actually, I had a birdie on 2 that was like 12 feet. But from No. 5 until 11, like 7 straight birdies. All putter distance was off like 15 feet between like 20 feet. Like my shot wasn't like great, but my putter was great. I think distance control was really good.

 Q. After you were on the money list and the Vare Trophy last year and you said there was a lot of pressure from home. Did you set goals for yourself for 2011 that weren't about pressure from other people? 
 NA YEON CHOI: Actually, when you I started this year, my goal was better than last year. But I knew like this, you know, too much maybe. 
 So I changed the goal during the season. After Match Play, Sybase Match Play, I met my mental coach and we talked about my goals and this year how I am doing. I think I tried too much to make better results or control about results. But I just forgot I can't control bad results, but I just knew and they just remind me, and I just reset my goal. 
 This year my goal is just play with happy, really. Play with a smile, friends, really. I changed my mind.

 Q. What was more important for you? Was it the money list or was it the Vare Trophy? 
 NA YEON CHOI: I think of course the Vare Trophy. And then, you know, lowest scoring ever, so that means I played almost every day, so I think that's really important to me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT