KIA CLASSIC
March 26, 2011
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Great round today. Tell us a little bit about it.   
 NA YEON CHOI: I had a great round today. Got a lot of birdies and I got one eagle and that gave me a lot of good vibes. In L.A. a lot of Korean crowd came here and they really supported me today. Yeah, I think that's why I played well.  
  
  Q. Describe the eagle?   
 NA YEON CHOI: Number 6, par-5. I hit driver and I used a 48-degree for a second shot. It was 106 to the pin, and I hit 48-degree. My ball landed a little past the pin and then it spun back and made it.  
  
  Q. Does that give you good vibes for the rest of the round?   
 NA YEON CHOI: I think so. Actually, I changed my putter after the second round yesterday. Just my putter was cold. I couldn't make it the last two days. So I changed the putter yesterday, and yeah, I felt really good.  
  
  Q. From what to what? What did you change?   
 NA YEON CHOI: I changed -- I used to hit like two ball style, like a big head. But I changed it to a smaller style to small ahead.  
  
  Q. Still an Odyssey?   
 NA YEON CHOI: No, it was a Taylor Made, and then I changed it to Rife. Last year I used that putter.  
  
  Q. You used it all year last year?   
 NA YEON CHOI: No, I changed in the 2010 season, and I used the putter the whole winter training in Orlando five weeks. Then the Taylor Made white putter looks cool, so I changed it after winter training. So I used that putter for the Thailand tournament and Singapore. But, yeah, I think Rife is better for me.  
  
  Q. Was the putting the big difference then from the first two rounds?   
 NA YEON CHOI: Yeah, I think just for mind. I like the set-up, and I used to -- I worked a lot with that putter in the winter time. So I just trust that putter, and I just try it myself, yeah, and it helped me a lot today.  
  
  Q. What is your mindset for tomorrow? You obviously put a good one together today, but it looks like Sandra and Jiyai are kind of far in front.   
 NA YEON CHOI: Well, I think I did great. So if I finish this here, I'm really happy with that. But I play one more day, and I have a good feeling about my game, my shot, my putting and everything.   
 So, yeah, I hope to play one more day like today. Then I can't control it, but I will do my best, that's it.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT