LPGA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
December 5, 2010
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You had it going out there for a while. Did you think you --
 NA YEON CHOI: No, I didn't believe about Vare Trophy or.

 Q. You had it going out there for a while. Did you think you might be able to today?
 NA YEON CHOI: No, I didn't think about like Vare Trophy or her score. But I mean, I tried, but sometime I see her score on leaderboard, and then I think I did great today, you know, I had good, positive attitude today. 
 So I think she did good, but I did great. So I think I'm really happy for that, too. 

 Q. You're actually right there, that 3-putt really hurt you, was it the 15th hole? Tell us about that, little downhill putt that kind of got away from you I guess. 
 NA YEON CHOI: I thought it sliced, like left-to-right break, but it did a double break. And then the other put, I thought left-to-right or straight, but like move it to the left. So I think I hit it good, but I think the grain, a little bit different. 

 Q. First putt?
 NA YEON CHOI: First putt, yeah.

 Q. When you were capping sight of Cristie's score on the leaderboard, did that make you more nervous?
 NA YEON CHOI: No, I think sometimes it makes me, like pressure, make me more focus. So that might help a little bit. Actually, after 16th hole, I thought, like I can get it, Vare Trophy. 

 Q. With a little bit of rain this morning on the course, did you think it played a little differently, especially the greens? 
 NA YEON CHOI: Not really. It's just a little bit like just ten- or 20-minute rain. When I teed off, the weather was perfect. 

 Q. It looks like, unless Cristie rallies, that Yani Tseng will be Player of the Year. Can you just talk about what you think of her game?
 NA YEON CHOI: Yani? Well, I think she's amazing, hits it far. And then she really -- she hits every shot like really like powerful. And then she is a good fighter. Yeah, definitely she can get like Player of the Year. She's best player. 

 Q. It looked like today you were within a couple shots of the lead and running out of here with every trophy on the table. 
 NA YEON CHOI: I know. 

 Q. Winning this thing, No. 1, you crept your way up there and you had that birdie streak on the back nine and you were right -- you could have walked out of here with everything. 
 NA YEON CHOI: You know, I wanted -- of course, I wanted to win this tournament, but I think I did awesome today. I think I did awesome, and I did my best. I can't do anymore. 

 Q. Give you something to gun for next year, anyway, right? 
 NA YEON CHOI: Yeah, done right now for this year. So I have to make another goal for next year, and then keep going to the Player of the Year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT