LPGA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
December 4, 2010
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Jiyai Shin did not make the cut, so you will be the money leader for the season. How does that make you feel?
 NA YEON CHOI: Actually I have to play one more time day, tomorrow. 

 Q. But you won it. 
 NA YEON CHOI: I don't know. I don't know. But I would be really happy and I'm really happy for what I did this season, and very good success. 

 Q. Is it kind of mixed feelings, because obviously there's satisfaction in winning the money title, but as you said, you still want to go out and have a good final round here tomorrow. 
 NA YEON CHOI: Yeah, because, who knows, you know, you don't know about the golf after done. 
 So I have to keep playing my game and then I have one more title for the Vare Trophy, so I just keep, you know, make my small goal for tomorrow and then just try my best. 

 Q. Did you think success was going to come so early, though, in your professional career?
 NA YEON CHOI: I think so, yeah, but I did work hard this year. Pretty good for me. 

 Q. Tell us about your round today?
 NA YEON CHOI: Today I got birdie first hole, and then I feel good about my swing my last couple days. But it's so difficult to read the greens. Today I got 3-putt three times, so I think I have to have a little more putting practice and then I think it will be better tomorrow. 

 Q. How is the course set up for the third round today as compared to the other days? Was it a tougher setup? 
 NA YEON CHOI: I think some holes, very difficult pin positions, and then the 13th hole, I got a double-bogey. Tomorrow my goal is to make par. That's my goal tomorrow. Pin position is too hard, first day and today, too hard. 

 Q. A couple of players have said that there really isn't a good pin position on 13?
 NA YEON CHOI: Yeah, sometimes no way. I can't stop on the right side. 

 Q. How is your mind-set changing as you get closer to the end of the tournament? Are you more nervous today than you were Thursday?
 NA YEON CHOI: I wasn't nervous any days. You know, just my job is hitting balls, not think about Money List or Vare Trophy. I just go out there and play my game. 

 Q. Do you have any idea what it might take tomorrow to lock up the Vare?
 NA YEON CHOI: I don't know. I can't control the scores. I can do only my -- under control, so that's it. 

 Q. So far today, only one player has broken 70?
 NA YEON CHOI: Really? Okay. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT