NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MONACO R.V.
October 8, 2010
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: Finished with four birdies; tied for the lead at 12-under. Just talk about the day today. 64, great round.  
 NA YEON CHOI: Yeah, I had a great round today. Actually, I gave myself a lot of birdie chance today, but I just make two birdie on front nine. I never gave up on back nine.   
 I had six birdie on back nine. Just looking forward for tomorrow.  
 MODERATOR: Did you have the same amount of chances on the front nine as the back, you just made more putts on the back?   
 NA YEON CHOI: Yeah, just try to trust myself on the back nine and try to just keep saying, and then I felt a little my body tired on back nine.   
 But I finish strong.  
 MODERATOR: Ever since you made your first missed cut ever of your career you've been playing some really, really good golf. Talk about your golf game and what that did to motivate you.  
 NA YEON CHOI: Actually, I don't know. I just play my game and just play one shot at a time and try just trust myself.   
 I think that's the key, yeah.   
 MODERATOR: Questions.  
  
  Q. You obviously were playing well yesterday. What was so much better today? A lot of low scores out there today.   
 NA YEON CHOI: I think that yesterday I had a lot of birdie chance yesterday, too, but I just try and trust my putter stroke. I missed a couple putt yesterday and I bogey couple holes yesterday.  
 After putting practice, putting green, I practice try trust myself and just see my target. That's it, yeah.   
  
  Q. What do you think it'll take to win this thing? It looks like a lot of people are shooting really good scores and there are a lot of people in contention.   
 NA YEON CHOI: This week?   
  
  Q. Yeah. Like number-wise, do you have a number in mind that you have to shoot with the low scores out there?  
 NA YEON CHOI: I should play low score this course, but I didn't -- even today I didn't think about my score, like, number. I didn't think about that.   
 Just play every hole. After finish I got 8-under par, yeah.   
  
  Q. So it just happened?  
 NA YEON CHOI: Just happen, yeah.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT