U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2010
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, Na Yeon Choi shot a fantastic round of 66. Can you imagine that on this golf course? Congratulations. It was a great try. Did you think at one point that you might be able to win?   
 NA YEON CHOI: Well, no, I didn't think about try win. I just played one shot at a time, and, you know, I tried focus on my game. I think I did my best today.  
 MODERATOR: That's one of the finest rounds probably in the history of women's golf. How did you do it?   
 NA YEON CHOI: (Through translation.) Well, I don't know. Weather was beautiful today, and I had good yardage from caddie. I just play one shot at a time, and, you know, I hit the shot with the 100% confidence.   
 Actually, I got confidence from last week. I got win last week, so, you know, I play with confidence and, you know, try hard.  
 MODERATOR: Questions?   
  
  Q. They moved up some tees for this round; made the course apparently a little shorter. How did that affect your play?  
 NA YEON CHOI: (Through translation.) The tee box was quite short. It was a lot closer, and I was able to play much more aggressively and attack the holes with that.   
  
  Q. Can you talk to me about your strategy on the 17th hole, what your plan was going in there and what you tried to do?  
 NA YEON CHOI: Well, I wanted to birdie that hole. They moved the tee box, and I used the 3-wood for the tee shot. I thought I can get my 3-wood get to the pin, so I tried to get birdie.  
 MODERATOR: Where did your tee shot go on that hole, on 17, your tee shot?   
 NA YEON CHOI: (Through translation.) It was just a bit short of the green.  
 MODERATOR: So did you putt from that position?   
 NA YEON CHOI: Yeah.  
 MODERATOR: How long was the putt?   
 NA YEON CHOI: It was almost 20 yards to the pin.  
 MODERATOR: 20 yards, so 60 feet?   
 NA YEON CHOI: Yeah.   
  
  Q. On the shortened course, how many clubs difference did it make on your game? You could play more aggressively. How many clubs closer were you, say, from a 7-iron to a 9-iron, something like that?  
 NA YEON CHOI: (Through translation.) For instance, for hole No. 2, it's a par-4, but I tried to hit it on to the green with my driver. Just speaking generally about the whole day, I think it was about a club or two. Does that answer your question?   
 INTERPRETER: On the hole No. 9, I scored eagle, and normally I would hit 3-wood for second shot. Today I used 4-iron to hit that.   
  
  Q. You said you used a 4-iron on No. 9. 9 played pretty easy all week. Was there something about it that made it easy for you?  
 NA YEON CHOI: (Through translation.) I don't think that was a particularly easy hole or anything in my opinion, but if you can hit your driver and lay it on the fairway, the birdie was very doable.  
 And I didn't expect to hit an eagle, but when I did, it gave me a good confident boost.  
 MODERATOR: Your putting must have been extraordinary to make as many birdies as you made. Was this your best putting day?   
 NA YEON CHOI: (Through translation.) My putter works pretty well today, but I wouldn't say that was the only reason I played so well today. I was able to hit the fairway fairly regularly and able to get the ball on the green most of the time, so I think it was a pretty good overall day.   
  
  Q. From players' perspective, could you give us your opinion about Paula's performance, not just today, but through the four rounds of the tournament, her consistency?  
 NA YEON CHOI: (Through translation.) I didn't have a chance to play with her this week, so I won't be able to tell you directly how she played this week. But, you know, I had a couple rounds that I played with her last week, and I know she was hurting quite a bit even last week.   
 But, you know, having to go through such hard time going through not be able to come out and compete for long time, I know that she's worked through that. She worked hard to overcome that, and now she's back. I think she kept her focus and concentration level throughout the week.   
 And from another player's perspective, I think she just did everything she could. This must be a very, very meaningful win for her.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT