SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 9, 2014
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  NA YEON CHOI:   Today I had a great day.   I think the good thing is I started very early, first group, a little bit cooler.   It was a little cooler out there.   But I think in the afternoon, the heat a little bit affect my focus out there.   I think that's why I missed a couple fairways on the back nine.   That's why I got one bogey out there.   But I don't have any regrets out there.   My putt was good.   After last week I had practiced a lot for short game, and I think it just paid off, yeah. 

Q.   You've been playing really well, three top‑5 finishes of your last four tournaments.   I think in Canada you said you're ready for your win.   How do you feel right now? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, I mean, someone asked me like how is your golf game going, and I always say, I'm ready.   But especially these days, like my game is going really better, and I have a lot of confidence with my game.   Like these days, I work with my caddie like more than five months, so we are knowing each other very well.   I think everything is kind of get ready to win, so hopefully.

Q.   In Canada you were up against So Yeon.   Once again So Yeon is at the top of the leaderboard.   You're both heading into Inbee's wedding, bridesmaids.   Is that going to be bragging rights at the wedding to see who can pull this one off?
NA YEON CHOI:   I don't know.   Hopefully we both play well before Inbee's wedding.   I hope Inbee‑‑ I know Inbee is cheering for us for this tournament.   Hopefully we have a good result and we have a great time at her wedding. 

Q.   Just your reaction, what your feelings are after today's play, fantastic round.   What's your reaction?
NA YEON CHOI:   I'm very happy.   I really feel satisfied with my game today.   I got one bogey out there, but I think still that bogey was good, and luckily my ball didn't go into the water.   I liked that bogey when I had it.   And then my putt was really well, so hopefully I can keep continuing on to Sunday with my putter, and yeah, I think I just need a good rest after today and then come back with a good feeling tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT