MASTERCARD CLASSIC HONORING ALEJO PIRALTA PRESENTED BY NEXTEL
March 21, 2009
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANA GROSS-RHODE: You had a good day yesterday and another good day today. Can you talk about your round; the last holes were very tough. 
 NA YEON CHOI: I played very well today, and pretty patient today. This morning in my warm up, I felt good. Actually, it has been feeling comfortable all week, and I like the course, and the course condition is great. It fits my eye well. 
 So hopefully I play well tomorrow. 

 Q. How much pressure will you feel or do you feel playing in México in Lorena's country, and with a chance of playing tomorrow in the final group with her? 
 NA YEON CHOI: I think I'm not pressured, never. Just I want to play and enjoy and just keep doing it, not pressure, never. 

 Q. What are your thoughts about playing with Lorena, if you did play with Lorena tomorrow, if you are both in the lead and you played with her, what do you think that would be like playing with her and with all of the crowds, because there are a lot of fans out there?
 NA YEON CHOI: I think first I can say to Lorena, I am very honored to play with Lorena. 
 And then, I really want to play with Lorena, so I'm really happy. And I'm trying to enjoy and not a lot of talking with Lorena, I just try and no pressure and just enjoy. 

 Q. Which was your toughest hole today? 
 NA YEON CHOI: I think No. 11, the par 3. The pin is a front pin and I used a 6-iron, but the wind is helping. So we couldn't stop the ball. It's really hard there. 

 Q. Which was your toughest hole today? 
 NA YEON CHOI: I think No. 11, the par 3. The pin is a front pin and I used 
a 6 iron, but the wind is helping. So we couldn't stop the ball. It's really 
hard there. The ball landed short and I chipped the ball to two feet to make 
par.

 Q. You had two good rounds. It's hard to be consistent on a course like this. 
What is your explanation for your low scores?
 NA YEON CHOI: I trust my caddie and I don't think about missing putts, but in making them.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT