GINN TRIBUTE HOSTED BY ANNIKA
May 31, 2008
Na Yeon Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: You're seven shots off the lead right now but in second place. If you would, just talk about your round. 
 NA YEON CHOI: It was really hot out there today. Obviously it was brutal. Just tried to have fun with my caddie and then we decided to just go out and have a good time. 
 And you know, my shots, I've been hitting balls so well lately, especially the last three days, and I played a pretty good round today but I felt like I left some out there today. 
 You know, I'm really hitting well. I'm hitting the ball really well, so I feel good. 

 Q. Can you describe the eagle and what it feels like to have made two eagles in two days? 
 NA YEON CHOI: Like you mentioned, I had two eagles, but I really had a lot more chances to do it more than twice. That's how great I've been feeling about my shots lately. 
 You know, a couple of times, as soon as I hit it, I knew that it was going to be very close, and a couple other times, I thought it was just going to go in. But unfortunately I didn't convert it into eagles each and every time, but once again, I feel like I left some out there. 

 Q. What happened with the approach shot on 16? 
 NA YEON CHOI: It was on the sand and I just didn't have too much confidence hitting that shot, and that's what happened. 

 Q. With the McDonald's LPGA Championship next week, is it realistic for a rookie to go and win a major championship? Do you have the kind of confidence it would take to do that? 
 NA YEON CHOI: You know, being a rookie this year, I never really thought about going out and winning the tournament. 
 You know, I try to make the cuts every week and try to bring my game up to a consistent level, and that's what I've been trying so far and that's what I will keep on trying for the rest of the year. 

 Q. You were in contention at Sybase and were right there; what did you learn from that experience that might help you this week? 
 NA YEON CHOI: At first I didn't have the type of confidence that I have, but you know, if you look at what tournaments I've played so far this year, you know, I've been in the Top-10 or 15 a few times, and you know, really other than anything, it's the confidence what I've learned and gained from Sybase. The confidence and stuff for this tournament or for the rest of the year, that's been a huge help. 

 Q. With you being apparently five or six shots going down into tomorrow, will you be more aggressive to fire at more pins than, say, if you were either out of contention or closer to the lead? 
 NA YEON CHOI: I don't want to leave anything on the course tomorrow, and to answer your question, I will be aggressive and go for the pin each and every time I play. 
 Once again, I'm a rookie, and I have no regrets and I have no fear. I'm just going to go for it, even if that means I'm going to keep my second place finish, it doesn't matter, I'm going to go for it. 

 Q. Do you have any memories of Se Ri Pak winning the LPGA Championship ten years ago? 
 NA YEON CHOI: I remember everything that happened: Se Ri having to take off her socks, and from that to making the long putt, I just remember everything. 

 Q. Were you inspired? Did you run out and hit balls that afternoon for a couple hours or any other memories surrounding the aftermath of the victory? 
 NA YEON CHOI: I think this goes for not just myself but pretty much every player on the Tour; you know, for myself, that was about the time that I was starting to catch on with the golf and it was when I first started it, so yes, it definitely got me interested more and knew that, you know, a woman from South Korea can go out and do it in the biggest stage.
 Yes, absolutely it inspired me to play better and practice harder and more than anything, have fun in golf. 

 Q. Can you talk about the card in the back of your yardage book; where did it come from and how long has it been there? 
 NA YEON CHOI: Well, you know, most players will have their boyfriend's pictures or baby's pictures and I don't have something to show at this point. It's just something nice, maybe something I hope for at some point. 
 I got this back in South Korea, comes with one of the letters that I got. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thank you for coming in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT