UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 26, 2019
Tristan Cooper
Khalil Tate
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Stanford - 41, Arizona - 31
Q. What was your key take-aways from this game? It's just over, but what do you take away from it?
KHALIL TATE: We've just got to be better as a whole. I think we need to play a complete game. I think that's something that we have not done all year, play a complete game. I think, once we find that we can play a complete game, I think we'll be successful.
Q. You guys didn't know that K.J. was going to be starting, did you?
KHALIL TATE: It didn't matter.
Q. No?
KHALIL TATE: No, it didn't matter. Our defense is prepared by Coach Yates. So it really doesn't matter who's out there.
Q. So quarterback change, what was kind of the mindset going into this game? Did you already know there was going to be a quarterback change?
KHALIL TATE: I knew it was a probability. I wasn't sure how exactly what was going to work out as far as the situations, but all you can do as a quarterback is be ready. It doesn't matter how many reps you get, as long as you stay ready. You have to get ready.
Q. You were able to get back into the game. What was your mindset?
KHALIL TATE: Just to move the ball down the field. Whoever can move the ball down the field, that's who we want in. If I'm not moving the ball down the field, we have to look for somebody else. That's Grant's chance.
Q. You guys were expecting a tough game on the road. Were you guys expecting a shootout?
KHALIL TATE: We were expecting a good game from a good team. We knew what they were capable of. We knew they could run the ball well. We knew they had a sound defense that's fundamental. We just had to be precise on our Xs and Os, and we weren't.
Q. Tristan, what happened to you guys defensively today?
TRISTAN COOPER: Discipline, man. We just -- some people, it takes one perfect play, one play of perfection. That's our motto, man. And when somebody's not doing their job, I mean, it results in touchdowns. First half, I don't know what happened. We were out there spazzing as if -- it's not the coaches. It's us. We were in a great scheme. You see, we come out second half, and we locked down ten points.
The first half, how did we give up 31? It all comes -- giving up 31-plus points, 41-plus points every game the past three games. Sometimes people need to start looking at themselves and be like, man, is it me? Because, obviously, somebody's not doing their job. That's where it takes into ownership. I bust plays. Nobody's perfect. But if you're consistently busting plays, you've got to look yourself in the eye and be like, man, I've got to get my stuff together.
Q. So where do you guys go from here? Four games to go.
KHALIL TATE: I think we're still in good shape in the Pac-12 South. We need a few things to happen, but other than that, all we can do is play our game. Like I said, we haven't played a complete game yet. That's the exciting thing about this team. We haven't played a complete game, and we've been in all of these games.
I think the biggest thing for us is really to just use this. We've used the last few weeks as stepping stones and just learn a lesson just to be complete in all areas of the game -- special teams, offense, defense -- and us really just coming together as a whole because we haven't done that in the past.
Q. Take me through the touchdown passes.
KHALIL TATE: First one was an RPO, to Jamarye Joiner. He made a great catch in the back of the end zone. Second one was a back shoulder fade to Drew Dixon. He came a long way. He's doing well. Any time we can get points on the board, I'm happy with it, whether it's J.J., whether it's Gary, anybody that can score on defense. Anybody that's scoring, I'm excited for us. Whenever we can get points on the board and just be consistent with offense and defense, I think that helps a lot.
Q. Tristan, did you all watch film of different quarterbacks for Stanford? (No microphone)?
TRISTAN COOPER: I mean, man, I guess we underestimated their line. We didn't think their line was going to be that good. They came out balling. They're better on the field than they are on film. The receivers, they're catching deep balls on us. We're going to have to get better at that. Playing him is like playing any other quarterback, but at the end of the day, they were catching balls on us, and we weren't deflecting enough.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT