US OPEN
September 1, 2000
Richard Fromberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  You continue to surprise yourself?
 
RICHARD FROMBERG:  Yeah, a little bit.  Today, I thought it was a good chance for me.  We played once before.  I lost a close match.  I knew it was going to be a tough match.  He's a very talented player, but mentally he's a little bit fragile at times.  Yeah, it was just a matter of just hanging in there with him, I thought, and try to take the chances when they came. 
 
Q.  How physically tough was it?
 
RICHARD FROMBERG:  The first two sets, the weather was unbelievably hot, it felt like it anyway, with the humidity.  We were both really suffering from the third set on.  I'd go as far as to say it was probably the toughest conditions I've played in.  We both had problems, we both knew we had problems.  It was just a matter of  -- it was a battle of wills really. 
 
Q.  Did you (inaudible) for fear of cramping up?
 
RICHARD FROMBERG:  I called for the trainer.  I felt not too bad at that stage.  I was sitting down the whole time.  When I got up, I was cramping everywhere.  I thought, "That's the last time I'm sitting down."  
 
Q.  What sort of treatment have you been having since the match ended?
 
RICHARD FROMBERG:  I went on an IV actually.  I feel fine now.  I felt okay after the match, but I think that was something that I needed to do. 
 
Q.  Was that your own decision or were you checked out by a doctor?
 
RICHARD FROMBERG:  Yeah, both. 
 
Q.  Checked out by a doctor?
 
RICHARD FROMBERG:  Yeah. 
 
Q.  What did the doctor say?
 
RICHARD FROMBERG:  Well, he suggested that it was a good idea to go on IV.  I had a little bit of problems with my legs still cramping.  That was the decision that we both came to. 
 
Q.  Do they do that in the locker room?
 
RICHARD FROMBERG:  They have a medical room.  The medical people here are excellent. 
 
Q.  Is it like a saline drip?
 
RICHARD FROMBERG:  Yes. 
 
Q.  Basically for dehydration?
 
RICHARD FROMBERG:  Yeah. 
 
Q.  How bad did it get for you out there?  Was your eyesight blurring or anything else?
 
RICHARD FROMBERG:  No.  Everything was okay.  The first set, set and a half, I didn't feel great.  The heat was getting to me a bit.  Then I think my body kind of got used to it.  Some cramping problems came on.  Lucky for me that he had the same problems or I don't think I could have won.  
 
Q.  What happened there at the end?
 
RICHARD FROMBERG:  I don't know.  He must have sworn or said something to the umpire.  He was complaining the whole match. 
 
Q.  There have been a lot of players out there calling for trainers today.  Not surprised at all?
 
RICHARD FROMBERG:  No, not surprised.  The weather today was brutal, was incredibly humid.  I'd played three games, and my shirt was just wringing wet.  I sweat a lot anyway, but I must have lost so much fluid. 
 
Q.  Can you talk a little bit about your match with Wayne?
 
RICHARD FROMBERG:  Yeah.  We've never played each other.  We're good friends.  We practice a lot together.  I think I see myself as a little bit of an underdog in this match.  I think he's playing unbelievable tennis.  I've got no doubts that I think he's got the best serve on the tour at the moment.  Yeah, for me this match is a matter of just trying to keep holding my serve.  If I get chances, try and take them.  If I don't get any, try and go for the tiebreaks.  I know that against Wayne, my chances are not going to come around too often.  It's going to be very tough.  My biggest asset is my mental strength, I feel.  I think he knows that.  It's going to be an interesting match. 
 
Q.  Do you share the same coach, Brent Larkham?
 
RICHARD FROMBERG:  Yeah, although Brent has been traveling the last few weeks.  
 
Q.  Do you call him in Canberra?
 
RICHARD FROMBERG:  I've been home for a month, so I haven't been speaking to Brent.  Wayne is very good friends with Brent.  Brent has been coaching Wayne for the last few years.  Me just more so the first half of this year. 
 
Q.  Was it an exciting win for you?  Your wife was very excited. 
 
RICHARD FROMBERG:  Yeah, sure.  Every win's exciting.  The US Open, it's very exciting.  This has actually probably been my most consistent Grand Slam tournament.  I've had some good results here - no huge results.  I've been in the third round quite a few times.  Especially after taking a break for a month, coming back and making the third round, it's exciting for me. 
 
Q.  Are you going to do anything special?  This humidity is not going to improve any.  Are you going to make any changes to your preparation for the next one?
 
RICHARD FROMBERG:  No.  I think I did everything I could today.  Just too hot.  It was unbelievable.  I'll get a massage tomorrow, drink all day, try and eat the right foods, do my best. 
 
Q.  Why was it you took a month off?
 
RICHARD FROMBERG:  I had some injury problems, as well as I was playing terrible.  I think I was burnt out and I just needed a break, which hasn't happened to me too often.  As it turns out, I feel like it was the right  -- it was a good decision. 
 
Q.  Where did you go?
 
RICHARD FROMBERG:  I went home to Melbourne. 
 
Q.  Is it going to be tough to put your friendship aside in your match with Wayne?
 
RICHARD FROMBERG:  No, that won't be tough.  We both want to win the match.  I think tennis players are used to playing their friends, their countrymen.  We're professionals, so we'll treat it that way.  
 
Q.  With all this hitting that you've done with Wayne over the years, is there anything you've been able to pick up about his serve that you can use?
 
RICHARD FROMBERG:  Not really.  Don't know where it's going (laughter).  Yeah, well, I don't know, we'll see.  We've never played a match.  We haven't actually even played a lot of points with each other.  We just do drills mainly.  We both know each other's games well.  He knows that I've got a good serve.  I know he's got a good serve.  I know he's going to serve-and-volley.  It's just going to come down to who plays the big points the best at the right time.  
 
Q.  Not that enjoyable a match to play out there today?
 
RICHARD FROMBERG:  It was just a tough match really, really tough, physically tough, mentally it was tough to try and keep going when you've got physical problems.  I always enjoy seeing my opponents complain.  It's kind of probably what kept me going today. 
 
Q.  You enjoy hearing the complaints?
 
RICHARD FROMBERG:  Yes. 
 
Q.  You know they're thinking about other things?
 
RICHARD FROMBERG:  It's always a positive thing.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT