ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 2, 2018
Muffet McGraw
Arike Ogunbowale
Marina Mabrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Notre Dame 83, Virginia 57   
MUFFET McGRAW: I was really pleased with the win.  I thought we did a lot of really good things.  I thought defensively, especially, they had a barrage of threes early and only made one in the second half, so I think our defense definitely tightened up.  Offensively, Marina had just a great game, shot the ball really well.  And I thought the bench really helped us tonight and that's what we need them to do tonight.  Good game all around.   
 Q.  How much carryover is there from year-to-year when you've won ACC Tournaments like you have?  It's a different group and everything, but is there a carryover effect?  
MUFFET McGRAW: I think there is.  I think we understand what it's like to play in a tournament atmosphere.  I think we understand the focus that's involved, the intensity that's involved on every possession.  I thought we came out really ready tonight and I was really pleased with the veterans, the way they came out.   
 Q.  You look like you were comfortable with your shot right off tonight, just what worked for you offensively?  
MARINA MABREY: I think my teammates were finding me and we were getting inside out threes and also the dribble penetration and kick out was working for me, also.   
 Q.  The experience, it's a different group but you come back with success that sort of builds within your program here.  What does it mean as players in the tournament?  
ARIKE OGUNBOWALE: It's just the atmosphere of our team, the chemistry we have, and we play well together.  So I think we go out there and do what we have to do.   
MARINA MABREY: Just going off what Arike said, same thing.  Just taking it one game at a time, is really important for us.   
 Q.  Did you feel you did certain things better today than you had when you played UVA the first time back  
MUFFET McGRAW: You know, I don't think we scored as much in transition today.  I was a little disappointed in our execution in the transition.  I thought we missed some easy layups and we had a couple turnovers that we really I thought were a little careless with the ball.  16 turnovers, that's way too many for us.  I thought defensively, we guarded the three a little bit better in the second half.   
But overall, I thought it was a pretty similar game.  I thought we did a little better job on Fefe.  I think she's really improved.  She's a tremendous player and I thought we -- she was the difference in our game last time and I thought we held her in check this time.   
 Q.  I think you've won 13 straight now since the Louisville game.  Do you like how this how the team is playing at this crucial, pivotal point of the year?  
MARINA MABREY: Yeah, I think that we're developing a lot of chemistry, and playing well together and playing really hard.  We need to execute a little bit better and watch our turnovers, but yeah.   
ARIKE OGUNBOWALE: I think we're playing well together at the right time for postseason, so hopefully we keep that rolling.   
 Q.  With the way the team is now, what's kind of the ceiling for this team?  What's your feeling about the potential for this team right now?  
MUFFET McGRAW: I don't think we've seen it yet.  I think we still have a game in us, maybe more than one, where everybody plays well on the same night, and that will be really fun to watch.   
I think we've had moments of brilliance throughout the year.  We've had halves, we've had quarters but I don't think we've had 40 minutes yet.  So I'm looking forward to that game.   
 Q.  You had a pretty easy win tonight, so what can you build on that you might need to work on?  
MUFFET McGRAW: I don't think it's ever easy.  We worked really hard and did a lot of good inks this, but I think for us to be able to get the bench in I thought was really good for us today, to be able to play them, get them some experience in the tournament.  First time for all of them, I think four of the last five that we were in, first time in the ACC Tournament.  So it was important that we were able to get a little bit of rest for the starters.   
 Q.  Obviously you were in control of this game throughout.  What did you like about how you clicked on defense and also on offense?  
ARIKE OGUNBOWALE: I think once we got stops, we were able to run in transition.  At first we weren't really running in transition, the game was close, and we were one of the best transition games in the country, and when we do that it's hard for teams to play with us.   
MARINA MABREY: I thought we were pretty active in the zone.  Getting our hands on some passes, deflections, and yeah, same thing, leading to our transition offense, knocking down shots.   
MIKE FINN: Thanks, Coach.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT