ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 4, 2017
Muffet McGraw
Marina Mabrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Notre Dame - 84, Louisville - 73   
MUFFET McGRAW: I thought Durr was unbelievable.  I mean, she made so many huge shots with somebody almost right on her.  I thought she was fabulous today.  She just hit so many big threes.  We'd get up and think we could just get a stop, we'd be okay, but we really had trouble stopping her, and I thought Hines-Allen played well.   
But I think Shook probably made the difference.  She was somebody that we were halfway going to guard, and then she hit four out of five threes, so she definitely was one of their better players today.   
I thought Marina did a really great job in a lot of ways.  I thought first when Lindsay got her second foul she could play an entire quarter at the point, which she really hasn't done all year long, and kept us even.  That was really big for us.   
In the second half we were able to go to Bree a little bit more.  I didn't think we did a good job of getting her the ball in first half, but we were able to get it to her in the second half, and then making free throws down the stretch.  I thought maybe the biggest shot of the game was Jackie Young's three.  I thought she, for a freshman, really stepped up.   
 Q.  Talk about just the poise of your team; you had Allen, Turner and Young all with four fouls and playing most of the fourth quarter, just the poise down the stretch to not foul out.  
MUFFET McGRAW: Yeah, that was critical.  Our game plan was kind of who's going to go in if they foul out.  We really had a short bench today, and we really didn't have a good answer, so I was glad we were able to play smarter. We wanted to play zone, but the way they were shooting the ball I didn't think that was a good option.  We tried to triangle and two quite a bit to try to save at least Bree and Lindsay, and I thought that was pretty successful.   
 Q.  Turnovers and points off turnovers seemed to be the two key factors.  You had a big edge in both.  You were guarding the ball real well.  
MUFFET McGRAW: You know, we played them at Notre Dame and set a record.  We only had four turnovers in the game, so we had five today.  I don't think we can play better than that.  I thought we played a really smart game, got the ball to the right people, took good care of it, and forced them into 18, which was huge.  We got a couple of breakaway lay-ups in the second half that really, really were key.   
 Q.  Coach, game was a real grinder; how did you bring it home in the end?  
MUFFET McGRAW: You know, they had to be tired after two big games back to back.  I thought that we would pull away in the fourth quarter, but it took us a really long time to do that, and I felt like we looked tired at times, too.  I think that had to be a little bit of the difference.   
 Q.  Marina, coach said you had to run the point for the second quarter when Lindsay got in foul trouble.  What was it like for you to have to run the show as opposed to being the one scoring?  
MARINA MABREY: I really don't like when Lindsay does that, but I really don't have do it very often.  I really just wanted to keep it even and make sure that we didn't lose our lead or anything, and I thought it was pretty successful.   
 Q.  You were out there, Marina, when Young hit that three that I think was the game kind of clincher there.  They had crawled back within six.  What were you feeling when you saw that shot go down?  
MARINA MABREY: Well, I was getting ready to sub in actually.  But I was really excited.   I think I jumped on the court.  I was really happy for her because she's a freshman, and to hit a huge shot like that in the ACC Tournament I know probably feels great.   
 Q.  As a freshman just to continue with that, just talk about the kind of career you think she's going to have at Notre Dame.  
MARINA MABREY: Jackie has limitless potential.  She's so athletic and so gifted and I think she's going to be one of the best players Notre Dame ever had.   
 Q.  We talked about Lindsay's assist record yesterday, but she also tied Skylar for the most games played in her career, which shows longevity for a freshman to step up and play that many games.  Talk about what that means having her as a steady four.  
MUFFET McGRAW: You know, I thought even as a freshman she had such poise and she was surrounded by veterans who really helped her kind of ease her way into the college game.  She just didn't make any mistakes.  She did what she was capable of doing.  And each year she's done a little bit more.  And then this year, I mean, we just -- she's such a leader for us.  We're a little bit out of sync usually when she's not in the game, just because she directs us.  She directs what we're doing defensively, what we're going to get in offensively.  We try to keep it really simple when she's not in the game, and she does everything for us.  She is our MVP.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT