ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 3, 2017
Muffet McGraw
Arike Ogunbowale
Lindsay Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Notre Dame - 76, Virginia - 59
MUFFET McGRAW: Made some mistakes, but I thought we were able to get it together in the second half.
Q. I know basketball is a team game, but to see Lindsay break the all-time assist record, that's a record that means she's helping other people score.  What does that mean to you?
MUFFET McGRAW: Yeah.  You know, I don't even want to think about next year without her.  She does so many things, like the play at the end of the half.  Just to see how fast with the ball, how she can go through people.  She has incredible vision.  She's an amazing teammate.  She guards people.  She directs people.  She does everything you could ask for in a point guard.  I think she is the consummate point guard, just a great team player.  She's accounted for, I don't know how many points it is, about 2,500 overall, with all the assists she's had in her career.  Just amazing.
Q. Lindsay, it's a team game, but that's a record that actually you're helping other people score, so what does it mean to you to have the all-time Notre Dame record and ACC record in assists?
LINDSAY ALLEN: I think it means a lot, but it especially speaks to the kind of players Coach McGraw recruits.  She recruits shooters, people who are smart, people who know their shot and what they are good at, so I think we have a very smart team.  Every game we're looking to take the best shot we can get, so it's really an unselfish game for us.  It means a lot for me to be able to share it with my teammates and be able to appreciate it with them.
Q. Coach, you face Louisville tomorrow.  What are you expecting out of that one with the Cardinals playing you?
MUFFET McGRAW: Well, they've got so many good players, it's hard to know where to start.  Asia Durr is just having a terrific year.  I think Hines-Allen is a player that's really difficult to guard, shes a tough match-up because she can face up, put it on the floor.  She's really strong.  She plays hard.  They've got three-point shooters with more on the perimeter.  They're just a great team.  They've had some injuries this year, but they look like they're playing great basketball right now.
Q. In the previous game with Louisville, maybe it was a 19-point win, what did you do well in that game?
MUFFET McGRAW: Well, Hines-Allen only played a minute.  I think that was a big difference in the game, and Durr had 31 and Moore hit 18, so defensively we didn't do much.  Offensively I think we were able to score, and we've been able to score, but our lacuna has been defense all year long, so we'd like to fix that.
Q. For both the players, you guys have been on such a roll these last two months.  What has changed in the team from the beginning of the year when you guys struggled a little bit to now when you're playing probably your best basketball of the season?
LINDSAY ALLEN: I think we're playing with more of a sense of urgency, obviously towards the end of the season you're getting to the ACC Tournament, NCAA Tournament, so I think now we're playing with more urgency because you realize that we're going to get each team's best shot and I think we're playing smarter and playing looser, and I think we're just realizing who our best scorers are and what our strengths are.
ARIKE OGUNBOWALE: I think we're just playing with confidence.  We know now that it's one-and-done and we know we're a good team and we don't want to go home, so I think we're just playing how we should play and how we've been practicing the whole year.
Q. You did force them into 17 turnovers.  Talk a little bit about that defensive pressure to maybe help you turn this around.
MUFFET McGRAW: Well, second half I think we probably played a little better defensively, but I don't know how many of those were forced and how many they just turned it over.  I think we still have a ways to go defensively.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT