NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL FOUR
March 30, 2001
Niele Ivey
Muffet McGraw
Alicia Ratay
Ruth Riley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COACH MUFFET MCGRAW:   Well, I'm extremely pleased with the team right now.  I think we showed tremendous character coming back from a 12-point deficit in the second half.  We shot the ball extremely well.  I think there was maybe a lot of praying going on out there in the stands, but definitely we showed tremendous character and pride in ourselves to come out and take the lead back, and then defensively, I thought we were outstanding the second half.  Offensively, when you shoot 8 for 11 from the free throw line, you are going to be tough to beat.  I am just so pleased with the character of this team right now. 


Q.  Ruth, at what point did you ever doubt this would happen and what was the difference in the second half? 

RUTH RILEY:  I think in the second half, we were more aggressive.  First half, we got out of our offense.  We were running our offense way outside the three-point line and not playing the game we played all year.  The second half  -- we had confidence in ourselves at halftime.  We were not down.  We knew we needed to attack and take it out of them.  I think Erika really started us off the second half. 


Q.  At halftime, anything said, anything done, or was it business as usual?  What went on at halftime? 

RUTH RILEY:  We're not usually down 12 at the half, so we had to pick that up a little bit.  We were intense and focused, knew what we were doing wrong.  We knew we needed to rebound and attack.  I think there was a lot said by the seniors knowing that this could have been our last game, but we wanted to make sure that it wasn't. 


Q.  Can you just talk a little bit about Niele's game, and did she seem pretty calm going into this thing in front of a home crowd?

RUTH RILEY:  I think so.  He's been poised all year.  She's excited to play in front of her family and friends and at home in St.  Louis.  She was just really happy to be back here and I think she was really focused coming into the game and I think she played  -- (inaudible) -- how she played. 


Q.  You mentioned the seniors talking at halftime.  Did you give yourself any kind of a talk?  If so, what did you say? 

RUTH RILEY:  Really, I didn't feel like I was playing very well in the first half.  I took a couple shots.  That was probably my fault not posting up bigger.  My teammates always look to give me the ball, but I think I need to be a bigger target for them. Rebounding, Connecticut is a tremendous rebounding team.  We knew we needed the blocks.  We didn't exactly do it so well the second half either, but I think we talked about that a little bit, too. 


Q.  What was going through your mind and the other players at the end of the first half when Ruth was on the bench?  What were you saying to each other? 

ALICIA RATAY:  We just had to come together and just play with more intensity. 


Q.  How frightened were you when Niele went down on the injury?  Were you kind of frightened or what? 

RUTH RILEY:  I think Niele has been through so much injury-wise; we instantly got a little scared, our hearts skipped a beat.  But Niele's tough.  She wanted to come back.  We knew that if she could play through it, she would, and she was able to join us at the end of the half. 


Q.  You had a big 3 right before halftime, and even though you were down 12, do you think that gave the team a little lift going in, even with a 12-point deficit? 

ALICIA RATAY:  Yeah, definitely a little momentum going into the second half. 


Q.  How is the ankle?  How are you doing? 

NIELE IVEY:  I'm doing all right.  Just a sprain.  I'll be okay.  I'm doing pretty good right now. 


Q.  Is it the ankle? 

NIELE IVEY:  Yeah. 


Q.  What did you say at halftime and how scared were you that you were going to  -- things were getting away from you? 

NIELE IVEY:  We were just talking about things we needed to do that we were not doing well.  Tried to say  -- we knew UCONN was going to make runs at us and make incredible plays, but we are the type of team that is going to accept those and come back with some even better plays.  We decided that defensive rebounding and offensive boards were killing us underneath the back.  We just decided to come together and do it  -- we had 20 more minutes regardless of what the score was.  It was 0-0 coming back out there.  I think our leadership and chemistry came together again.  That's been helping us the whole year.  We are not going to fight or give up.  It's our only opportunity right now, so we are going to take advantage of every second out there.


Q.  When you came out in the second half, Bird hit a 3 right away and Schumacher got some rebounds, and it looked like a continuation of the first half.  What turned it around then? 

NIELE IVEY:  I think we had a couple steals, a couple 3s.  Alicia I think hit one up top.  And we wanted to get the ball to Ruth.  She was in foul trouble the first half.  Just get her the ball and she is going to carry us.   She did a great job the second half and Alicia did a great job.  Everybody did their part in the second half, and I think it just came together for us. 


Q.  Geno talked how well Taurasi has played, but she is still a freshman and it might catch up to her.  Were you surprised with her performance?

COACH MUFFET MCGRAW:   She's played extremely well in the NCAA Tournament.  Since the BIG EAST tournament she has played extremely well.  She would not stop shooting and she is a good shooter, and when a good shooter isn't shooting, they do not quit until -- when she sinks a couple shots.  She had kind of an off night.  I think the whole team in the second half had an off night, and I thought the zone got a lot more effective in the second half. 


Q.  What did you think when Niele went down? 

COACH MUFFET MCGRAW:   I was worried  -- I didn't want to go on the floor, because I knew I had to take her out when I went on the floor and I was not ready to do that until -- when she went down, I knew she was hurt.  I think she probably was a little scared when she got hurt because she didn't know what it was, and when we found out it was the ankle, we were a little bit relieved it was not her knee. 


Q.  Great job on Taurasi tonight.  Talk about that a little bit? 

COACH MUFFET MCGRAW:   Well, we were definitely keying on her, thought about possibly a box-in-one.  We worked on that for the past couple days on her, but you know, when she started out the game missing a couple shots, we decided to take our chances with the zone.  I'm not sure it was all the defense.  I'm thought our defense played well, but she got an awful lot of open looks.


Q.  What did you say at halftime, and at what point in the second half when the run began were you  -- were you at all stunned at how easy it looked and how much it came? 

COACH MUFFET MCGRAW:   I think about 20 seconds left, I thought maybe we would win, and I think I relaxed about that time.  But at halftime, we were pretty calm.  Just talked about rebounding, was such a key.  I think they set a record, 29 offensive rebounds is an amazing statistic.  And we did a poor job on the boards.  So that's what we spent most of the time talking about, how we could rebound better.  And we actually gave up more offensive rebounds in the second half, but I thought we did a good job overall in limiting their 3s. 


Q.  Should college basketball fans around the country be surprised  -- (inaudible) that UCONN gave up that big a lead in the second half?

COACH MUFFET MCGRAW:   I think if you've seen us play this year against Connecticut, we have had two great basketball games.  This was a finish more like the game at Notre Dame, which we obviously wanted to play.  And the game at Connecticut was a great game, also; came down to the last-second shot.  I think basketball fans around the country were expecting a great basketball game and I think that's what they got. 


Q.  Can you talk about Purdue? 

COACH MUFFET MCGRAW:   Well, I think it's great to have two teams from Indiana in the Final.  I think that's probably a first in the NCAA Tournament.  We played them earlier in the season, but that was a long time ago.  They are an excellent team, Camille Cooper, great post player, but Katie Douglas is the heart and soul of the team  -- (inaudible) -- they brought in and responded well with the loss of Valek, and I think Kelly Komara is playing well, also.  They have a great basketball team and I think it is going to be a terrific game. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT