NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL FOUR
March 28, 1997
Katryna Gaither
Muffet McGraw
Beth Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MUFFET McGRAW: This is the most outstanding run in the history of Notre Dame basketball.  I couldn't be prouder of these two people beside me.  They are both all Americans, tremendous seasons, NCAA tournaments and I couldn't say enough about them, where they took  our program to the Final Four. Although we are disappointed in our performance tonight, certainly the results, I couldn't be prouder of these two on the team.  I don't think any team in the country has gone through what we did this season, winning 31 games.  It is an outstanding accomplishment. 


Q.   For either player. Were you surprised at how easily they were able to penetrate your defense and get other shots that you usually don't give up inside?

BETH MORGAN:  Any time we play a zone with a team as good as theirs, you will find openings.  And obviously Holdsclaw is a good  player, and when we were making a stop on her, she was finding somebody else.  I think one of the keys was to rebound, and I think we gave them a lot of easy put-backs, or baskets on the boards.


Q.   Question for Beth. How big an impact did early blocked shots have on your shooting game in  the first half?  Did it get into your head a little bit?

BETH MORGAN:  I don't think -- I think I tried to stay aggressive. Early on I probably should have given a few shot face or a ball face rather than going straight up. Tiffani is a great player, they all are, did a great job defensively and  has the long legs that seem to go forever.


Q.   As seniors, you seem like you never want to give up the fight in the second half.  Knowing it could be your last game, is that any extra incentive or anything like that?

KATRYNA GAITHER:  I just wanted to  play hard to last me.  We had a couple of times where we were taken out of the game a little bit and we wanted to play hard until the end. We should have played hard the whole game but we just wanted to go out, and we came this far, and not for nothing.  We wanted to play hard.


Q.   This time of year, in  March, everybody is talking about pressure and getting in the Final Four and how important it is.  Did you have fun along the way, and talk about your experience and how it is over even though you lost.

BETH MORGAN:  I think it was definitely a great experience for all of us.  To make it to the Final  Four was a great accomplishment for our team, for our program.  You know, you just hate to go out playing as poorly as we did.  Half of that is due to Tennessee, a good team does that to you.  But I think then again, I think we really struggled tonight.  You know, I think it has been a great experience  for all of us.  There are so many players that go through basketball programs that never have a chance to do what we did.  And you know, I think looking back we are very proud of that.  Memories last a lifetime.


Q.   Looking back now, do you see maybe some of the experience that they have had really, in  tournaments passed, several years in effect, this is not only the first Sweet 16 but Final Four.  Could you see a turning point in the break in the second half where they just started to take off, that maybe that experience paid off then for them?

BETH MORGAN: I don't know if it really came down to the experience  of playing in the Final Four because I think we -- I was not intimidated at all.  I think, you know, it was just turning the ball over.  We have done that at times this year.  It is something not new for us.  We knew going in we couldn't do that.  We struggled sometimes during the season doing that and other times we  have done well with it.  Tonight was one of the nights we didn't.
DEBBIE BYRNE: Ladies, you are free to go.  Thank you very much.  Now we will continue with questions for Coach McGraw.


Q.   Can you talk a little bit about Chamique and her performance offensively and  defensively?

MUFFET McGRAW: A highlight film? She is the best player in the nation.  She is outstanding, talented, works hard.  She is good on the floor, can shoot, can do it all, and she passed.  I think the situation like this, great players will step up, and she had just an  outstanding game.


Q.   Coach, you spoke about NBA range.  Do you think you were going to get over the hump?

MUFFET McGRAW: We thought we would get defensive and rebound.  We had a little bit of luck with a score but we had a little trouble defending.


Q.   Can you give your  overall impression of Tennessee's defense and why it is so impressive and effective in the second half?

MUFFET McGRAW: Well, I felt the defense was pretty much the same the whole game.  I thought that they had good pressure on the ball and that's a key to good defense.  I think that they face-guarded a little more  effectively in the second half than they did in the first half.  But I thought in 40 minutes they played very aggressively and a great defensive effort by all of them.


Q.   First of all, do you see the team has come up, and you have made for yourself among the elite in the nation, and what kind  of challenges do you see for yourself?

MUFFET McGRAW: This team has improved to the very best in the country.  We are proud of that.  We lost starters from the team, and rebuilding, that's the word for next year.  I think that we hope we can reload rather than rebuild.  The  people that are coming back and the kids that are injured will take this experience and learn from it, and hopefully will be among the nation's elite in the years to come.


Q.   Coach, Pat Summitt said that in watching the Alabama game and talking to Rick Moody, he said the one thing he wishes he had  done is played like to get to the post players off the block, and she did that tonight.  Does that make a difference in the way you want to think about the game?

MUFFET McGRAW: I don't know if the post players on the block or Chamique had anything to do with it, but we know the problem that we had  with that.  They rebounded a lot better, I think, and guarded the perimeter a little easier.  So I thought Chamique really was the difference, not so much the post player.


End of FastScripts....


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT