UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 22, 2008
David Gleeson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DAVID GLEESON: I'm sure I'll be three or four behind, anyway, tomorrow, so it will be a lot of work tomorrow if I want to have a chance to win.  
  
  Q. Despite having some misgivings about the way you're playing, most consistent, in some time, anyway?  
 DAVID GLEESON: Yeah, I knew I could do it. It was just a matter of what I was missing. Just trying to get out of my own way and start playing some decent golf instead of trying to analyse every different facet of the game, I just decided to maybe just play golf.   
  
  Q. I presume the results last week breeds confidence?  
 DAVID GLEESON: Yeah, last week was more of a surprise than playing. The leading groups on the last nine holes fell back to me. I would have thought I would have had to finish three or four shots better to finish where I did, but I did play some nice shots coming in.  
  
  Q. I saw you feeling the shoulder when you came in; is that a bit of a problem?  
 DAVID GLEESON: No, I had a bad neck yesterday morning. It's not bad. It probably makes me not watch the ball so I just sort of turned through it a bit better.  
  
  Q. Any expectations for tomorrow?   
 DAVID GLEESON: Try and birdie every hole.  
  
  Q. Really?  
 DAVID GLEESON: Yeah.   
  
  Q. Possible?   
 DAVID GLEESON: It is possible. No one's done it before, but it's possible.   
  
  Q. Do you think that there is a figure that you might have to reach, given what other players are doing out there?  
 DAVID GLEESON: Not interested, just going to try to birdie every hole. When I do normally take that sort of mind-set it works better for me than trying to stay one in front or two in front and make sure I birdie this par five -- it's counterproductive and doesn't work. Just try to play my own game and make every birdie I can.  
  
  Q. Last week's result take a lot of pressure off your shoulder? Winning in such a great field was good, wasn't it?   
 DAVID GLEESON: Yeah, just try and get my European Tour card this next coming year, or this season, and I'll get minimal starts, but that's the idea.  
  
  Q. Have you joined the Tour?  
 DAVID GLEESON: I joined the Tour at HSBC. So I'll get another shot at Hong Kong Open, and if I win another event, another shot at HSBC, so this is probably the year for an Asian Tour player to have the opportunity to get the money up, because we get two goes at a couple.   
  
  Q. You've been in Asia for a while?   
 DAVID GLEESON: 10th year.  
  
  Q. Tried to do it before?  
 DAVID GLEESON: Yes, about eight years ago, and then three years after that I tried and then went to the States for a couple years. Got pretty close but not close enough.   
 Not going to do it through Q-School. Hopefully the idea is to do it through the Money List.   
  
  Q. Last week's check, one of your biggest?   
 DAVID GLEESON: Yeah, biggest I've made before.   
  
  Q. So things pretty rosey for you at the moment?   
 DAVID GLEESON: Yeah, everything is going quite good. And it's good fun to work hard and get some results, as well, obviously. That's what we are here for. It's enjoyable out there if you're not coming in a few holes and people are watching you; that's what it's about.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT