ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 2, 2015
Mikko Ilonen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How happy are you with 1‑under par?   
MIKKO ILONEN:   Very happy.   It was probably one of my best rounds on this golf course, ever.   So couldn't be happier.   It wasn't a flawless round, but I take that score any day.   
   
 Q.   So what was it that made it one of your best rounds around here?   
MIKKO ILONEN:   Well, it's been a difficult task for me here.   I've always found the golf course really demanding and my game hasn't been in the best shape whenever we've played here.   This time around, it feels a little better and maybe the second half of the year, it's going to be a little better than the first half.  
   
 Q.   I suppose it's worth stressing, it's still demanding, isn't it, even though we have beautiful weather and the rough isn't quite as severe as usual?  
MIKKO ILONEN:   Yeah, but it still rewards the tee shots.   If you are in the fairways, you're going to have good scoring opportunities.   But as soon as you hit in the rough a little bit, you're going to be struggling to hit the greens and getting up‑and‑downs.  
   
 Q.   Put it into context, because we haven't seen you in a little while.   
MIKKO ILONEN:   We haven't?   I've seen you around.   
   
 Q.   We said hello at The Irish Open and things like that.   
MIKKO ILONEN:   As I said, I've just had three weeks off, and the whole purpose of having three weeks off was to turn the year around.   My coach left yesterday from here.   He said, you still have the best opportunity to have the best season ever.   So we still have a lot of golf to be played towards the end of the season and you still have two majors left and all that.   It's still early.   
   
 Q.   Sounds like three weeks off wasn't actually three weeks off; it was working and making sure things are right for the second half of the season.   
MIKKO ILONEN:   Yeah, I did some stuff with golf obviously.   Only holiday that I had was the last three days, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and I think that might have made the whole difference.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT