VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
October 17, 2014
Mikko Ilonen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Another day, another victory.   Tell us from your point of view about that match?  
MIKKO ILONEN:   It was a bit stickier than yesterday, I have to admit.   I didn't get off to a flyer in the beginning.   Made a couple bogeys at the first four or five holes.   But again then I hit a couple of good shots.   Made a couple of easy birdies and a long‑ish one on nine which relieved my game a little bit and gave me a little bit of confidence going into the back nine.   And then I didn't see myself losing from there.   
Probably 13 on the par5 was a big turning point when Alex 3‑putted and I made a good putt for birdie.  
   
 Q.   Victor Dubuisson tomorrow, a formidable match‑play player; your thoughts about that?  
MIKKO ILONEN:   I don't know much about Victor.   I know he has a good game.   I think you can play against any of these guys and if you have one of your best day, you can beat anyone.   
   
 Q.   What's been behind the improvement the last few years?  
MIKKO ILONEN:   I put it down to family.   I settled down, have two kids, married.   All that has been helping a lot.   Off the course things are settled down and I don't need to stress about things.   I put it down to that.   
   
 Q.   Well played, two wins in two days.   Just give us your thoughts on today?   
MIKKO ILONEN:   It was a bit so‑so today to be honest.   I didn't feel my best on the course but made birdies at the right times.   I had to make really crucial putts on the front nine to keep in the match, and I won 8 and 9, which was big for me.   So I think I ended up making like five birdies today, which I don't think is going to be enough tomorrow.   So we need more.   
   
 Q.   Have you varied anything for this week to a normal stroke‑play tournament?   
MIKKO ILONEN:   No, I'm actually thinking of playing stroke‑play all the time because actually if you end up with a ten‑meter putt and you have two putts to win the hole, you don't want to start thinking about those things.   You play like stroke play and the results are, you know, more or less what you expect.   
   
 Q.   Victor Dubuisson in the quarterfinals for you, but does it matter which opponent you play?   
MIKKO ILONEN:   It doesn't matter who you play.   You can play any of these guys and if you have a bad day, you're going to lose.   If you have a good day, you can beat anyone of these guys.   
   
 Q.   Overall thought on the experience of the whole tournament so far?   
MIKKO ILONEN:   It's been one of the best ever, really.   They look after us all good.   Everything at the hotel and have a chopper ride to the hotel and back to the course, it's unbelievable.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT