ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
August 29, 2013
Mikko Ilonen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MIKKO ILONEN:   I borrowed a set of irons from the Callaway guys.   The driver and the 3‑wood, are somewhat similar to what I play, but whenever you say, you know, can I have the same, it's never the same.   
   
 Q.   Tell me the story, please, because this is a remarkable first round, given the circumstances?  
MIKKO ILONEN:   Well, it has not been the best of starts for the run of three tournaments, I must say.   I've lost my clubs on the way over, and still missing.   I'm assuming that they are at the hotel now, but they are supposed to be there last night.   Still didn't see them this morning.   
So we had a set.   We played with 13 clubs today.   So it's a pretty good start, 2‑under.   I'm happy with that.   
   
 Q.   And this is making a short flight into Heathrow, which is only about two hours' drive down the motorway from here.   
MIKKO ILONEN:   Yeah, exactly.   The thing I'm frustrated is because I could have gone to pick the golf clubs myself.   The thing is, the golf clubs are with a courier since Tuesday night, and it's a two‑hour drive.   So I could have gone and picked them up myself.  
   
 Q.   And these are 13 clubs, you say, so not a full bag, but these are beg, steal and borrow from all the manufacturers?   
MIKKO ILONEN:   Well, we didn't have the time this morning to go and borrow an extra club.   But I said to Reggie that maybe we don't need a club between 3‑iron and a 3‑wood.   So we get on the first hole, our first hole, the 11th, hit a drive, and where do we end up?   We end up right between 3‑iron.   
All in all, it worked out okay.   The irons that I'm playing today doesn't work for me.   It works, the putter, the wedges.  
   
 Q.   Are there any of those clubs where you thought, that's a really good club and I'll put it in the bag from now on?   
MIKKO ILONEN:   Maybe the putter.   I think it's going to get another round at least.   It feels quite good.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT