BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2008
Mikko Ilonen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  If I could start off, just tell me how good a day that was? 
 MIKKO ILONEN:  I got off to a quick start, birdie on the first and good opportunity on the second and made one on the third again, so I was quickly 3-under. 
 Then probably the second-toughest hole on the front nine I made a bogey, into the wind, a long hole, the par 4.  All in all I played solid on the back nine, as well. 

 Q.  I saw that birdie at the first, 12, 13 feet, something like that, and presumably that's just great for confidence. 
 MIKKO ILONEN:  I had a lot of those putts today.  I said to Reggie yesterday, my caddie, that we're going to end up having a lot of these putts like I had on the first.  And that was yesterday, and then I ended up having like probably about 12 of those today.  So it was nice. 

 Q.  Some of those dropped, but I presume some of them didn't. 
 MIKKO ILONEN:  No, not all of them.  But I made a few which was nice, and knocked a couple close and made easy birdies from those. 

 Q.  Is this just about the best round for a little while?  Certainly you've not been playing badly. 
 MIKKO ILONEN:  You have a good memory.  I've made a lot of cuts, but I haven't really played that well.  I've been kind of building on something and it's getting a little bit better all the time. 

 Q.  Building on something, does it mean that you've been fiddling with your game and trying to work out something different? 
 MIKKO ILONEN:  Not necessarily different.  But I've been very patient with my game.  It has not been on that level that I was expecting.  But I had a long break during Christmas time, so, you know, it's a long season. 

 Q.  If it's not the level that you were expecting, does that mean there's been a bit of frustration, or you are staying positive and keeping that patience? 
 MIKKO ILONEN:  I've kept positive, yeah, no doubt about it.  But of course there's been a couple of frustrating moments on the golf course in the last few weeks.  That's the way it goes. 
 The last two weeks, I've been sick, in India and in Malaysia, and played four round of golf in both tournaments.  But this week, I feel better for the first time in about a month. 

 Q.  What was it that you've managed to shake off? 
 MIKKO ILONEN:  It was a bit of everything. 

 Q.  Give me your impression of Korea. 
 MIKKO ILONEN:  Very nice.  Look at the views over there.  When I got here on Tuesday, I was very pleasantly surprised.  You know, everybody was saying last week that it was going to be so cold and this and that.  The food is great, the views are nice and the golf course is in good shape.  We don't have any rough this week, which is okay.  I don't complain. 
 But it's fantastic. 

 Q.  There's not a lot of volcanic rock in Finland but there are fir and pine trees. 
 MIKKO ILONEN:  I said to Regi, my caddie, the other day that it's the same scenery, lots of trees not a lot of housing around, which is nice. 

 Q.  Feel at home? 
 MIKKO ILONEN:  A bit, yeah.  I even have the wooly hat on, so it's okay. 

 Q.  Was it food poisoning? 
 MIKKO ILONEN:  It wasn't that bad and I've had food poisoning a couple of times and it really knocks you down and you can't do anything.  I had fever and there was sleeping for two weeks.  It's quite rough, no energy whatsoever. 

 Q.  Lose any weight? 
 MIKKO ILONEN:  No, not much.  (Laughter). 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT