BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2007
Mikko Ilonen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKKO ILONEN:  It was on the 6th, a stretch par 4 and I hit it in the bunker on the right-hand side and made a birdie from there.   
I hit it really good off the tee.   
  
  Q.  How has the year been?   
 MIKKO ILONEN:  It's been nice.  I would have like to play better but I've been sort of a little unlucky with my health.  I've had a couple of weeks that I've been a little sick, and you know, that never really helps.  Last week, I got a little bit of a wrist problem but with a good treatment from the Red Bull guys, it's been -- gone forward.  Right now, every day it gets better.   
  
  Q.  Are you feeling it out there at the moment at all?   
 MIKKO ILONEN:  An odd shot here and there.  But it is really better now than it was a few days ago.  I had to be five days without clubs and not hitting a ball.  Just gave it some treatment and much better now.   
  
  Q.  Not the greatest preparation for a big week such as this, though.   
 MIKKO ILONEN:  I actually enjoyed that.  Not really expecting anything and you feel more relaxed, actually.  You haven't hit that many balls, and you do it how you can.  I haven't really hit any balls on the range this week.  I might hit a couple today, just a few.  But I won't do much with it.   
  
  Q.  So is that a kind of key today then being more relaxed?  Because a lot of people get nervous at an event like this.   
 MIKKO ILONEN:  Yeah, it is a key.  It is definitely a key.  There's a lot of birdies out there on this golf course, if you can keep it on the fairway, which makes a huge difference on those par 5s, for example.  If you hit the fairway, the fairways are running at the moment.  Like on the last, you don't need to hit a driver.  17 is reachable today which is, you know, it's a pretty long haul.   
 All of the par 5s are reachable.  If you can score on those, it's a key.  I think it's a key.  And I didn't do too many silly mistakes today.  I just hit one bad tee shot on the second I think, the par 3.  I pulled my 8-iron in the bunker but made up-and-down from there.   
  
  Q.  Your second you pulled an 8-iron into the bunker?   
 MIKKO ILONEN:  Made a good up-and-down from there.  I actually hit that hole from the bunker.  That was the only way to stop the ball.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT