SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 23, 2014
Jeff Hart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   No bogeys today.   That's always good. 
JEFF HART:   Well, thank you.   Yeah, I had about a 10‑footer on the last hole for par that I made.   I wasn't ‑‑ I kind of was thinking about it, but I wasn't.   I said, I don't want to know.   I didn't want to back track and think, well, this might be, to keep myself from not making any bogeys.   So I didn't think about it.   But it was in the back of my mind. 

Q.   You're the first player that hasn't bogeyed any holes.   So what do you attribute that to?   What facets of the game do you feel like clicked today?
JEFF HART:   Well, I hit it pretty straight.   I don't hit it far, and I think that that's my thing that I do well, is I hit the ball straight and I hit it and it actually the wind died down towards the end and it's very playable now. 
I just kept it in play.   The tough shots, I hit good, some of the bad shots or the easy shots I was a little loose with, but I got away with them.   I think what the reason I didn't make any bogeys is I just played smart and I kept it in play and that's what I do.   That's my game. 
As long as I don't get away from that, generally I won't make too many bogeys. 

Q.   The weekend, now you're clearly inside the cut line, you had a great round today, what do you change anything or do you just keep the status quo what you did today and hope to emulate the round tomorrow?
JEFF HART:   Well, yeah, try to keep doing what I did today.   Obviously, the first day, I don't want to do what I did that day.   But, yeah, try to keep doing what I did today and keep it in play, get it on the green, make putts.   I made a lots of putts today, and that helped.   So, yeah, definitely I try to keep doing what I did today for sure.

Q.   You seem to always play good in Majors, so what do you attribute that to?   Just keeping the ball in play, just hacking at it?
JEFF HART:   I think keeping it in play, absolutely.   I'm kind of a dot to dot player.   I don't try to carry bunkers or hit it up on the green, spin it back.   I just hit it to this dot and then to that dot, and try to get it in the hole.   So it's more of a chess game with me, I don't have the luxury of being able to carry a sand trap that's 280, like some of the guys can. 
Although I did hit a par‑4 in one today.   So first time I think I have ever done that. 

Q.   What hole was that?
JEFF HART:   Number 3.   I knocked it on the green and 2‑putted for birdie.   So they had the tee up there. 
So, yeah, I just have to keep plodding along.   I'm a plodder.   I can't over power any golf course, even a pitch and putt I can't over power.   So I have to play my game and today it was good enough.

Q.   Lastly, talk about the condition of the golf course.   Did you see it different from weeks past, how does this play compared to what you're used to seeing?
JEFF HART:   Well, it's in great shape.   I was here two years ago and it's filled out, it's matured, it's in much better shape than it was two years ago, although it was in good shape then.   And hats off to the greens keeper and his crew.   It's fabulous.   Great shape.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT