THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 26, 2013
Jeff Hart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How would you reflect on two days of the championship so far, two very solid days, isn't it.  
JEFF HART:   Very much so.   1‑under both days.   Hit a lot of fairways, which I think you need to do on a links course, and not much wind either day.   We got a little bit the back nine yesterday but it's been pretty tame I think wind‑wise, for a seaside course.   
I think the scores should be low.   Whether they will be or not, I don't know, but yeah, I hope 2‑under is somewhat close.   
   
 Q.   Well, certainly seems like it's going to be very close indeed, and every time you actually see weather like this, you think there will be a better score, but it's a tough golf course.   
JEFF HART:   It is tough, yeah.   You get in the bunkers or the traps, and a lot of times you're pitching outside and it's a penalty stroke to hit in a fairway bunker.   It looks tame because of the weather, but of course it's not and if you get the ball going a little bit sideways, you're in trouble.  
   
 Q.   I take it looking over these score cards there have been pretty of opportunities for you, and a little bit of adversity, as well?  
JEFF HART:   Yeah, it's been a mixture of both.   I've missed some makeable birdie putts, and then I've made some good par putts where it looked like I could have been course, made bogey or worse but managed to make a long putt for par.   
Yeah, it's been a mixture.   You've missed some short birdie putts and think, oh, I should have shot lower but then you forget about the putts you made or the chips you hit close from a difficult lie.   So it's been a mishmash of good and bad, but overall I'm pretty happy with it.  
   
 Q.   Am I right to think you should feel confident coming into this week with maybe some good expectations after the last two events?  
JEFF HART:   Very much so, yeah, I've been playing well.   You know, when you get a week off, you're afraid that you'll lose the momentum, but we've had a couple weeks off in between some of these events, and that has not been the case.   I'm still playing well, so look forward to the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Certainly a different kind of course compared to the other two, but you have to keep that belief, don't you, and keep that momentum going.   
JEFF HART:   Absolutely, yeah, no question.   It's still golf and you're trying to get that little ball in the little hole.   And you know, the conditions may change a little bit.   The course looks a little different, but ultimately, like I say, it's getting that little ball in the hole.   
   
 Q.   Which is never any easier and you're still as competitive as ever, no doubt.   
JEFF HART:   Yeah, looking forward to the weekend and got the first two days behind me.   I think I'll be close.   I don't think that will be leading but I hope it's close, and that's all you can ask for going into the weekend.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT