U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2013
Jeff Hart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Jeff, great round, minus 5. 
JEFF HART:   Thank you. 

Q.   Take us through your birdies and bogeys. 
JEFF HART:   Well, no bogeys.

Q.   That's great. 
JEFF HART:   Birdied 2, I believe, 2 and 4, and I eagled 6.

Q.   Distance from the hole? 
JEFF HART:   Yeah, 2, driver and then 4 iron layup gap wedge to about 15 feet, made it. 
And on 4, I hit driver, 4 iron about 20 feet, made it. 
And 6, I hit driver, 4 iron about 25 feet and made it for eagle.

Q.   Okay.   Very good. 
JEFF HART:   Yeah.

Q.   Now, with you having to come from farther back, you've made some headway.   Do you think the field's going to‑‑ with the conditions, the field's going to come back a little bit, or do you think the guys who are in the lead will be able to make some hay out there? 
JEFF HART:   Good question.   I don't know.   It seemed the wind's about the same as it's been, but I think the greens are getting a little bit firmer as they probably had planned.   So that might make it tougher, I think.   But maybe a stroke or two, it might play tougher today.
All in all, I mean, you're asking the wrong guy because it played easy for me today‑‑ or easier.   It never played easy, I don't think, any of the four days. 
But I played very well today, hit the ball well and putted well.

Q.   After playing four rounds, there's been‑‑ most of the players have been saying that hitting fairways is probably the most important thing.   Do you agree with that and why? 
JEFF HART:   Well, I do agree with it.   I'm testament to that because I don't think I missed any today.   I missed two or three, but in the first cut.   You can play from the first cut.   You can't play from the intermediate or the secondary cut.   It's just‑‑ the ball sinks. 
Well, I can't play from it.   Some of the guys have the strength to do it, but I can't.   Luckily, today I was not in either the intermediate or secondary.   I was always in the fairway or the first cut, where you can play it out of the first cut.   It's not bad.   So, yeah, definitely a premium on hitting the fairways.

Q.   Given the fact that you hit fairways, was your driver better?   Were your irons better? 
JEFF HART:   Well, I've driven it pretty good all week.   I think the course is firming up, and I had shorter irons into a lot of the holes, whereas the first three days, I was‑‑ I'm a short hitter anyway and not carrying the ball very far.   I was hitting into the up slopes of a lot of these fairways, and I was leaving a long, long shot into the green, and it was tough to get it close.
Today, it was rolling out a little further, so I had shorter irons in and, therefore, was able to get the ball closer to the hole.

Q.   Given your good score today, did you have some fan support?   Crowds are great.   So did you have some fan support as you were going along? 
JEFF HART:   Not that I knew of.   I was in a zone.   I didn't hear them. 
No, I have some cousins that live here, and all the people have been great.   I mean, what a turnout.   All the players have noticed that, you know, the crowds are bigger than we normally get. 
Hats off to Omaha.   They're just fabulous.

Q.   Well played.   Thanks so much for your time. 
JEFF HART:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT