NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 16, 1996
Paul Haarhuis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Was that 127 mile-an-hour serve good?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  I was wondering about that myself -- serious.
 I thought it might have been long.  It was very close, that is
for sure.  On clay, you can check it, but I wasn't even sure if
it was good.  Obviously, I don't think the referee wouldn't have
overruled if it wasn't a footfault.  He wouldn't have said, okay,
the serve is out because it was too close, I think.

 Q.  The referee can't overrule a footfault?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  No, he can't do that.  But -- and not also overrule
a serve that is that close to the line.  And if the linesmen says
it is good, then he cannot overrule if it is too close.

 Q.  When this happens now, you are struggling out there a
little bit.  Are you thinking this is the kind of thing where
Goran goes off and this could help me; did that go through your
mind?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  Oh, yeah, definitely went through my mind.  I
mean, he didn't really go -- I thought he was pretty  -- he was
pretty calm.  I mean, it is a tense moment and hitting a big serve
like that, 6-5 to get you the set and then it is a footfault and
it is back to the second serve and he had only one earlier footfault
call like, I think, one against him before, so it is a little
bit disappointing for him.  So,  I mean, I would have been a little
bit upset too.

 Q.  Do you think you are playing the best tennis you have
been playing in a long time?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  Definitely, in a long time, yeah. Probably since
last year, February.

 (JOE LYNCH ENTERS INTERVIEW ROOM.)

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  Hey, Joe, welcome --

 JOE LYNCH:  How did you do today?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  I went down.

 JOE LYNCH:  Sorry about that.

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  I was waiting around the corner the whole time.

 JOE LYNCH:  You are quick.

 Q.  Why are you playing so well?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  Just like I said yesterday, it is a little bit
of luck and getting some rhythm and then having some confidence
going when you win some matches.  In the beginning it is like
you are a little tentative the first outdoor match again after
four weeks of indoor and, you know, then you struggle through
that. I didn't play well the first round, but  I won it 7-5 in
the third and then it is like, hey, I at least got a chance in
the second round; then I start playing much better.  From winning
a match like that against Enqvist, you get a lot of confidence,
plus it is good surface for me. So.....

 Q.  Do you feel more excited when you are playing these kind
of players?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  Not necessarily excited, but more, maybe, tense,
more concentrated, that you just -- this is the opportunity because
you know you have beaten them before and you know you can do it
again if you just play well, but you have to play well.  If you
don't play well, you don't -- you are not going to win against
these guys.

 Q.  You have won a tournament, Paul, Jakarta, I think, but
not a Super 9.  Now, is this your best result this moment in singles?
 Certainly not doubles, but in singles?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  I was in the finals in Philadelphia. I don't
know if that was Super 9 at the time.  It was Championship Series,
but which was a big tournament, and I lost to -- actually lost
to Chang.

 Q.  Are you feeling like this is your best moment?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  This is definitely -- pointswise, well, it is
definitely my best tournament, yeah.  I think, especially with
the bonus that I have had from winning -- beating three top-10
players which I have never done in one  week, you know, so it
has been -- yeah, quite a week for me so far.

 Q.  If you win, is it clearly your best?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  Oh, yeah, definitely, without a question, but
it is going to be best of five, and it is going to be a tough
match tomorrow.

 Q.  You had to play a great deal of doubles yesterday; right?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  Yeah, I played nine sets yesterday.

 Q.  One would think you would be exhausted?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  I was last night.

 Q.  How did you feel this morning?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  A little bit stiff, but I had a good warm-up
and stretched a little bit more, and it is obviously very good
that it is warm weather, you know, which I think helped me that,
you know, your muscles are little bit more relaxed, so that helped
me.  And I am glad it was two sets today, so I can get a little
bit of rest before tomorrow, which, you know, best of five is
going to be tough tomorrow.

 Q.  Were you thinking that it would go to a third set when
you lost?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  When it was 5-2 up then I was thinking, you know,
I need to close it out, but then I played some sloppy shots and
when you are down 6-5 and he is serving you just pray for the
first serve miss. 

 Q.  For a footfault?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  Well, I didn't even think of that one.  (AUDIENCE
LAUGHTER)  PAUL HAARHUIS:  That was too much to ask for.  But
yeah, definitely I was thinking, gee, you know, 5-2, I was disappointed
with the way things went after 5-2.  I was thinking, gee, you
know you are going to be playing a third set probably. It just
goes in like a fraction of a second through your mind.  But then
when it got to 6-All, I was thinking, yeah, this is going to be
-- this is my week,  anyway; I am playing well, and, you know,
I am going to win this match.

 Q.  Paul, what is the one single thing from your doubles play
that helps you the most in singles and what is the one thing in
singles that helps you the most in doubles?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  I think there is two ingredients in doubles that
helped me.  In the singles, that is the returning and my serve
and volley.  If I -- like today, I changed up my serve and volley.
Every now and then I would come in after my first serve, and attack
the return of Goran and, you know, that is, you know, I do that
with a lot more confidence than I would have done a couple of
years ago without, you know, without the doubles play.  And for
doubles, it just, I think, my -- just my backcourt game helps
me out in doubles a lot; that if I get a  second shot, opponents
know that they are going to get a tough shot.  It is not like
I can just play serve and volley.  I cannot hit from the baseline.


 Q.  Paul, what would you pinpoint for the reason that things
have clicked this week?  Girlfriend is here, or Jacco turned up
for the match?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  I have no idea because it was definitely not
-- I wasn't riding high on confidence because February is usually
my best month, but I had, you know, for February, I had a really
bad month.  Since I have so many points to defend, I dropped in
ranking and then you start -- plus get a year older, you are 30,
I am thinking hey, maybe, all these young guys are playing too
fast or I am getting too slow, so it wasn't like I was coming
in here with a lot of confidence.  So I don't know why it clicked.
 And my girlfriend has been traveling with me now are for the
past three, four months so that wasn't new, so it is not -- Jacco
has been there also, so....

 Q.  Was the 30th birthday traumatic?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  No, actually, well, it was strange, a little
bit.  I was in Memphis playing the tournament and they presented
me with a cake, but with all the young ball girls and boys who
gave me the cake and they looked at me like I was some old guy,
you know - (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER) - 30, you know, so, but other than
that, no, I mean, I still feel physically feel good,  and, you
know, that I think that is the most important thing. And most
people don't tell me anyway that they don't -- if I tell them
him 30 they say, no, no, really, what is your age.

 Q.  Paul, you didn't start playing full-time until you were
23, 24 years old?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  That is right.  I went to university first.

 Q.  Was that just a case of wanting to go to college first
or was your game not ready?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  The latter thing.  I was not nearly -- I wasn't
just a good player.  I was just a very average club player.  I
mean, I guess I had the talent, but I never practiced.  I was
always playing soccer.  I was doing other things.  I was -- so,
playing tennis maybe twice a week, and then I came to the states
and all of a sudden I have to practice every day and which was
new for me, and then I started playing better because I practiced
every day and then I enjoyed the improvements so I practiced harder
and more improvement came, and so actually it is lucky that I
am here today because I actually was going to study in Holland
and then I would just be studying, but a friend of mine said,
hey, let us go to the states for one year and see how it is.

 Q.  This wasn't really one of your goals when you were --

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  No.  Even when I was 20, I didn't think that
two years down the road -- five years down the road  I was going
to be a professional tennis player.  I started out tennis for
Armstrong State.

 JOE LYNCH:  Powerhouse Armstrong State College.  Two years at
Florida State were graduated.

 Q.  You said yesterday that tennis for you IS singles and
doubles?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  Yes.

 Q.  Do you think it is possible FOR a top player to play 9
sets as you did yesterday?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  Obviously, I won today.

 Q.  I mean, week-in and week-out.

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  It is tough.  But you have to choose. I mean,
then you don't play 30 tournaments or you don't play 25 tournaments.
 You play 20 tournaments.  Top players do play 20 tournaments
anyway.  So you can just limit it.  You can limit your tournaments
a little more - if you are going to play singles and doubles.
 I mean, because I think it is part of the game of tennis is singles
and doubles.  I think everybody should be promoting it.

 Q.  Were you angry when they forced you to play the two doubles
matches tomorrow?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  No, I knew that.  I had a choice actually Thursday
night to play my doubles, but I would have had a late night match
and I knew I had to play Sampras the  next day, so they said you
can have an option of not playing and just get better preparation
for your singles tomorrow and then if you win, you have to play
two doubles if you win the first double.

 Q.  You say everyone should be promoting --

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  By playing.  By playing.  By playing the singles
and doubles they promote it. Pete Sampras doesn't promote doubles.
 Andre Agassi doesn't promote doubles.

 Q.  Chang doesn't, etc., etc.

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  Yeah.

 Q.  You are one of the few who has been in the top 20 in singles
and doubles in the past five, six years.  Are there any specifics
that could change it so could there be bonus points if you do
well in doubles that would affect your singles ranking?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  Yeah, we thought about things like that, but
it is kind of tough to make people play.  Now, you are going to
play doubles.  They go on the court and if they don't want to
play still you have to put your heart into it and not just your
body and just say, okay, what the heck, I am just going to go
out there.  They make me play.  I am just going to play. You know,
so it is tough.  It is always a dilemma.  I talked to Pete about
it and which is true what he says, he says, listen, if I play
doubles, I am always playing the night  match because they want
me to play  on Center Court, so then I am playing late at night
and next day I have to play singles, so, for him, that is not
a good preparation.  But on the other hand, he is just not used
to it.  If he would get used to it, it would be no problem for
him because he is physically fit. He is a great athlete, so he
should be able to handle it, and I mean, it always keeps you fit.
 You don't have to do much extra.

 Q.  Do you think it might be a good idea to have an exclusively
doubles tournament?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  No, because like I said, then tennis is singles
and doubles.  It is not doubles here or singles there.  I mean,
people want to see me in singles and they want to see me playing
doubles.

 Q.  Which is not going to happen as you said; it is never
going to happen?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  It is tough.  As I said, the ATP Tour really
needs to push a little bit harder and promote it a little bit
better and just do --

 Q.  Where is Armstrong State and why did you go there?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  In Savannah, Georgia, actually because I was
so bad when I was a junior and I just went on the spur of the
moment.  I just wrote to some of the schools that I liked, from
a book, University of Hawaii, University of San Diego, Cal, something
University of California, as well as, you know,  they looked great
to me.  I mean, I was just planning to go for a year.  I got some
replies back saying, you know, we received your letter and you
can come; all our scholarships are gone for next year, but you
can be a walk-on and this is the price.  Well, that was a little
bit too expensive, so -- and a friend of mine was going to school
in Armstrong State, college in Savannah, Georgia and I knew then
he was playing No. 1 there and I was about the same, you know,
level as he was, so then I said, hey, why don't we try to go if
I talked to him.  I said, hey, can we go there.  He talked to
the coach.  The coach was obviously interested because we were
same level and he was the No. 1 player; then we went there.

 Q.  You went there too?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  No other option.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER).  That
was basically it.  University of Hawaii didn't want me.

 Q.  They do now, I bet.

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  I was so bad then, I mean, so it doesn't -- it
was --

 Q.  So what did you think, Paul, being so bad that some school
would actually want you to come and play for them, did, that scare
you?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  No, when I got the letter back I knew I was --
that I wasn't mad or something that this guy was like passing
up a big chance or whatever.  I was very realistic, but  the only
thing was I could have, with Armstrong was mouth to mouth, this
guy would say, hey, listen, he is as good as I am and I am playing
No. 1 here.  If he had been playing 7 at some college; he could
have said, okay, I am playing 7; he is as good as I am, you want
him?  Obviously, the coach would have said, no.

 Q.  Once you got Armstrong -- let's see if I got this straight.
 Were you like the big man on campus or were you just an alien;
how did they treat you there?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  They didn't treat me like an alien (AUDIENCE
LAUGHTER) But tennis -- no, I mean, we had really good baseball.
 Because first year we were NAIA and our baseball team was like
top five always, so we had a really good baseball.  Basketball
was not so bad, but baseball and basketball were the really good
big programs and tennis was just.... And I also played soccer
for Armstrong State, because I actually liked that at that time
better.

 Q.  Florida State, the Seminals, what does Armstrong say it
--

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  Another guy in the first year with me Armstrong
State went to Florida State and who -- he played three for us
at Armstrong and I was playing one, and he went to Florida State
and was playing 3, so he told the guy and I was  -- I wanted to
switch.  He said, listen, this guy was playing one when I was
playing 3, so he wants to come.  And the guy  said sure, but again,
we didn't play at Armstrong; we didn't play any big schools, so
I couldn't prove myself.  I lost one match in two years.  We were
playing small schools all the time.  I couldn't go to Nationals
because the first year we went no NAIA to Division II; in transition,
you can't get a ranking or go to Nationals and in the second year
we were in Division II, they decided, hey, let us go to Division
I.  So we were in transition, again.  So, you know-- so I couldn't
get a ranking two years in a row and so nobody knew about me so
to again go mouth to mouth information from other people, so I
went to Florida State.

 Q.  You mentioned you wrote a letter to the University of
San Diego?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  I am not too sure.

 Q.  I am from San Diego.

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  It -- I am almost positive that I did because
I looked at the map and - (audience laughter) - it looked like
a good place to be.

 Q.  When you got to Florida State what was your highest ranking
in college?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  I actually was my highest ranking was about 17,
I think, 16, maybe, but I was undefeated and I was ranked 17,
so I don't know.  I didn't make the Nationals that year.  I didn't
get voted in.  You need to get votes. 

 Q.  You can't just play your way in to the bracket?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  You need votes from all the coaches from that
certain region.

 Q.  You never even got a shot at an NCAA title?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  No, my first year I was just in eligibility,
first two years; then my junior year, I -- just they didn't pick
me.  My senior year, I finally did and I was so frustrated by
the time I got there that I lost first rounds.  Actually I played
very good, but this guy really cheated big time, and he played
well there because after that he beat Wheaton and he beat Snyder
(ph) and like a year later,, well, a year later I was top hundred
and two years later those other guys were both top hundred.

 JOE LYNCH:  You footfaulted a lot in that match.

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  But it was all right.  I saw him once again after
that and he was still playing Satellites and I was very happy
about that.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER).

 Q.  Since we are going into the past, '91, your famous encounter
with Connors.

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  Last question.

 Q.  Infamous overhead sequence, what, 16, 18,000 people watching?

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  I thought it was 19,900 and.....

 Q.  All right.

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  Against me. 

 Q.  Anyway, was that a matter -- did you replay that point
in your mind?  Was that a matter of your being tentative or Jimmy
just --

 PAUL HAARHUIS:  Both.  I mean, because it was the ball, he just
played them up really high and the first one I should have let
it bounce because I remember seeing it back on TV, but because
it was high and it was at night, it is dark, pitched black; the
ball comes back in the lights all of a sudden, so didn't really
get a good swings at it and a clean hit.  So that is why he got
a second hit for a lob and then that one was deeper and then it
was tougher to finish it off. So -- but, other than that I never
thought about it again. Thanks, guys.

 End of FastScripts........            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT