VOLVO MONTE-CARLO OPEN
April 26, 1995
Paul Haarhuis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What did it look like from your side on that  particular -- when the injury happened?  
 
PAUL HAARHUIS: I knew I hit a forehand winner  and I kind of turned around too, so I didn't -- then I  had heard the crowd going like "Wooooaaaa!"  I guess it  was, first for my forehand.  Then I had noticed that it  was more; that I saw him kind -- I saw him more  stumbling afterwards, after it happened.  And I thought  he was just -- lost balance and was just trying to hop  on one leg just to keep from falling, but then he kind  of limped; then I knew something happened.  But then he  kind of walked to the ballboy.  I thought he was just  going to ask for a towel to clean his hands; then he  went to sit down.  Then I knew, but didn't see  anything, actually, so....   
 

Q.  What did the doctor say?  Did you speak with  them?  
 
PAUL HAARHUIS: I mean, I just got off the  court.  I came straight here.  I didn't have a problem,  so -- no, but, I mean, he twisted his ankle on top.  He felt that he twisted the ankle on top of his foot.  He  went, like, over it.  The physical therapist saw it on TV.  He said  he went with his foot like this - (INDICATING SIDEWAYS)  - but it was -- right away, it started to swell.  So I  don't know what it is; maybe something more or bad, I  don't know.   
 

Q.  How did you rate his clay court game up until  then; as an opponent how was he?  
 
PAUL HAARHUIS: He played very well.  I was,  you know, you could say pleasantly surprised, but I  mean, I was really surprised with his backhand how well  he was playing.  He was playing his backhand like a  clay court specialist; high over the net, good length,  a lot of topspin, so very heavy.  So it was very tough  to do anything with that.  Usually, you know, his  forehand is his big weapon.  You don't go to his  forehand.  His backhand was so solid.  So it really  surprised me today that he was playing so well off the  baseline with his backhand.  He was playing well.  I  mean, I felt I was playing well and having a good match  out there; some good rallies.  He was playing as well,  I felt.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT