U.S. OPEN
September 6, 1996
Jacco Eltingh
Paul Haarhuis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Did those two tiebreakers kind of get you a little bit? Is that what the difference
was?
 
 JACCO ELTINGH: Yeah, that was the difference. I mean, we win by even making one -- if
we lose, although, we make one more break than they did, you end up losing that match, so,
it is very tough. We felt we played well today. I didn't return as well as I maybe should
have in the second and the third set to give Paul a few more chances at Love-15 or 15-30,
but the first tiebreaker actually was the difference. We were up 4-3 and good chance to
win that point and Todd hits two very lucky volleys, you know, just in front of the line
and kind of shanked it, the last one, and Paul hit a good running lob. We ended up losing
that point to go up 5-3 in the first tiebreak. That was big. 
 
Q. Did you kind of think when you broke back in that fifth game of the second set maybe
today might be going our way more?
 
 PAUL HAARHUIS: 8th game? 
 
Q. Fifth game you broke --
 
 PAUL HAARHUIS: 8th game in the third set - second set? 
 
Q. Yeah. They were up 3-1. You broke back.
 
 JACCO ELTINGH: We played well. We hung in there. 
 PAUL HAARHUIS: They were playing well too. They were making a lot of returns, so, it
wasn't like we were surprised all of a sudden that they were breaking us. I mean, they
were creating opportunities. We were coming up with good shots and then they make a break,
so we break them back, and, you know, I felt like, hey, we are in it and I thought they
were going to close it out in the tiebreak. I mean, we played them two years ago. It was
3, 4 and 6 also. 
 
Q. Are you basically though encouraged? I mean, because you haven't been back together
since Jacco has been out and --
 
 PAUL HAARHUIS: Yeah, it has been great the past two weeks, but it is just now we have
been finished like five minutes from the court and for us, it is like the worst scenario
to lose two tiebreakers in the second and third set. I mean, it is like playing them at
Olympics. We lost 18-16 in the third set. So, I mean, I guess we had, you know, '94 we won
every tournament if we were getting matches that were that close, we won everything also
at 7-6 in the third set, so maybe, it is just a little bit more confidence that they have,
I don't know. 
 
Q. They both spoke yesterday very highly of you and said that you are their great
rivals as far as doubles. Do you feel the same?
 
 PAUL HAARHUIS: Yeah, absolutely. We haven't been able to show that this year, but
except for these past two weeks and, you know, we were -- I think it is very good over the
past four years we have been playing them only in big events, only in the big, like the
finals, the semifinals of Grand Slams and World Championships and so it has been always
great matchups and so far it has been pretty close and only this year we played them twice
and we lost to them twice in close matches, but, yeah, we have been, you know, it has been
a great rivalry so far. 
 
Q. This is the 10th time you have played each other. Is anything surprise you out
there, I mean, have you seen everything happen?
 
 PAUL HAARHUIS: We have seen everything. We know they both can -- they have all the
shots for doubles, but I mean, one day Todd plays a little better than Mark and some days
Mark plays a little bit better. 
 JACCO ELTINGH: A little bit of luck of the day sometimes. We know what they are doing
and they know what we are doing.  
 
Q. I was wondering what you guys thought of Pete Sampras's performance last night or
his kind of recovering from his illness to win the match? Did you guys watch it?
 
 JACCO ELTINGH: I don't think he recovered during the match, though, but he made a gutsy
performance and, you know, that is what maybe makes him the No. 1 player, but on the other
hand, I felt very sorry for Corretja because I mean, he hit one 10 miles an hour and then
goes for ace on second serve and Corretja has passing shot there, those matches can make
or break a career. 
 PAUL HAARHUIS: But he didn't come in to tell us, I mean, the press why that happened,
so, I mean, I cannot say maybe he is not in the best shape, I don't know. If he says he
wasn't -- maybe he ate something wrong before the match. Maybe he didn't. I don't know.
That is why he got sick. If he was fine, then maybe he is not in the best shape that he
should be, you know, playing the best of fives, you are going to have tough matches
against these guys, especially, so I mean -- but I mean, I don't know. I haven't spoken to
him, so kind of useless asking us, I think, what we think of it. 
 
Q. How do you rate this match you had with them, with the others you have had, is this
one the one of the toughest, the most interesting?
 
 JACCO ELTINGH: Not the most interesting. Prefer to win. It was a good match. It is a
match where you feel the whole time you cannot let go just for a minute. I mean, not even
for a second. They will take you and sometimes against other opponents you feel maybe you
have one or two more shots margin especially in the tiebreak, and I think that is probably
the difference between Woodies today and the other teams we played before. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT