U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 11, 2014
Brad Nurski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What's your thoughts on how the match went? 
BRAD NURSKI:   He beat me 7, 6 or 6, 5.   I didn't play bad.   Just didn't play good enough.   Obviously he's a wonderful golfer, and his resume and world ranking speaks for itself. 
No regrets for me.   I played well.   Just got beat today.

Q.   You came out and won the first three holes in the afternoon.   Did you make any adjustments on the range in between or?
BRAD NURSKI:   Not really.   I just‑‑ I made a putt and hit a couple of good drives and couldn't keep it going after that, but he made a lot of putts and made some birdies, and I couldn't get anything to go, as you could see, a lot of the putts got right next to the hole and didn't go in.   But that's the way it goes.
You know, I was just proud to be here, and obviously wanted to win, but didn't come out on top today.

Q.   After you won the first three and got back within one, do you kind of feel like, all right, now we're back almost even?   What kind of turned the tide?   What do you think kind of turned the tide back?
BRAD NURSKI:   He made a good putt on No. 4 for birdie on that little par‑3, and I hit an okay putt, and then the tide kind of turned there on 5.   I hit it in the fairway bunker again.   And just couldn't get up‑and‑down, didn't make the putts today when I needed to make putts.

Q.   Describe your whole Saucon experience.   What do you think of the club here and how the people treated you?
BRAD NURSKI:   Oh, well, this is an unbelievable place.   If I lived in this area, I would love to be a member.   But obviously I live quite a ways away from here.   The people have been great.   Everyone has been very thoughtful, and they say thank you, and I say thank you.   And it's unbelievable.   The people are just wonderful people. 
It doesn't‑‑ you know, a lot of people say there's East Coast bias, but they feel like Midwest people to me out here. 

Q.   What do you think of the setup?
BRAD NURSKI:   The golf course is good.   Obviously it's hard.   Didn't make me look very good today.   So yeah, it's a difficult golf course, but you know, there's some holes out there where you can make birdies, but you just have to hang on and try to make some pars and I couldn't do that good enough today.   But my hat's off to Scott.   He played really well, and he'll enjoy his time in Augusta.

Q.   I know you're disappointed to come up short, but talk about your game throughout the week, the week that you had.   What do you take away from this?
BRAD NURSKI:   I mean you know, you know that you can compete with the top mid am tours in the country.   And that was my goal, and the goal is always to win, but you just didn't come out on top today.
You know, obviously it's going to open up a few doors for me which I didn't have open when I got here.   I'll get to play in the U. S. am next year and I'll get to come back to this tournament for two years, so that takes a lot of weight off your shoulders when you know you don't have to qualify for some things.   And we obviously got the USGA State Team coming up in a couple of weeks and hopefully team Missouri can get a little revenge on North Carolina.

Q.   Congratulations. 
BRAD NURSKI:   Thanks, guys.   Appreciate it.

Q.   Talk about the relationship with your caddie.   You guys are best friends from Missouri?
BRAD NURSKI:   Yeah.   Absolutely.   We went to the same high school together, same college together.   It's been great.   I mean I'm glad he came.   I wouldn't have been able to do it without him because I know I wouldn't have been able to pack that bag the whole tournament.   It's a long week.   I'm ready to put my feet up and relax for a couple of days.   I'm actually going to go home‑‑ actually I'm going to get on the plane and I'm going to have a beer.   Or two.   I'm ready.   I can't wait to get home and see my wife and kids.   I miss them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT