BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 9, 2006
Jarrius Jackson
Bob Knight
Tanner Ogden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Tanner, it's nice to meet you.  Can you tell us a little bit about your game today and just, you know, how did it all come about, really quite a performance for you? 
 TANNER OGDEN:  I was trying to come off the bench, give the team a spark.  We start off a little slow.  Came down at the end of the half and just tried to play well on defense and just not turn the ball over and just hit a couple of shots. 
 Q.  Tanner, did you have any idea you were going to play this much?  I noticed you played a little bit more in the last couple of games, did you see this coming? 
 TANNER OGDEN:  Before the game, Coach told me to get ready, so you never know.  So, some days, you know, he tells me to get ready and I don't ever come in.  You just always have to be prepared. 
 Q.  Jarrius, do you feel okay today?  You looked like you were struggling with your wind in the first half, the struggles had you early on? 
 JARRIUS JACKSON:  I think I had off day shooting, but we still got the win.  Still put it out at the end.  But I am all right. 
 Q.  You happen to see who is scouting you for Texas today? 
 TANNER OGDEN:  My brother is back there in the back I saw him over there on the sideline.  During my warm-up he was making jokes at me or whatever, so, I saw him over there. 
 Q.  Can you guys talk about facing Texas tomorrow and the challenges they present? 
 JARRIUS JACKSON:  We think they present a very big challenge.  I think it is a very big opportunity for us.  We just have to answer that opportunity. 
 TANNER OGDEN:  They are good team, one of the best teams in the nation.  We just have to come in there and play our game.  Try to compete. 
 Q.  Jarrius, Tanner was saying that he came in trying to give the team a spark.  Did you feel like, you know, when he made a couple of three points, took the ball in the basket, what kind of effect did you think he had on the team? 
 JARRIUS JACKSON:  I think he came off the bench today, gave the team a very big spark, him as well as the other players too that came off the bench today.  They just helped us out on the team on the floor and the bench.  I think everybody came out of the bench today gave us a spark. 

 Q.  Coach, talk about the impact Tanner had on this game.  He said you told him to be ready today, that's not always the case, doesn't always means he's going to play but he did today? 
 COACH BOB KNIGHT:  I thought actually I told him to be ready when he was getting off the bus because I thought this would be a really good opportunity for us to use him today.  He came in and really -- he made all the difference in the world for us, with some plays -- he got really crucial rebounds.  He handled the ball well.  It wasn't just the fact that he scored 14 points, but did he an awfully good job for us today. 
 Q.  Talk about what -- you said you thought he might have a chance to have impact today.  Why is that?  What did you see? 
 COACH BOB KNIGHT:  I watched him practice for three years.  I have seen things that he can do, and there are things that he can do were things that we might very well needed to. 
 Q.  (Inaudible) he's averaged 6 minutes a game for the year.  What it is that you saw today that made him -- 
 COACH BOB KNIGHT:  This isn't nuclear science.  When he made a three, I left him in a little longer.  And then he hit another three and I said, goddam, I left him in a little longer.  Then he made a helluva drive and I said damn, stay in there. 
 Q.  Talk about the prospects of facing Texas tomorrow and the challenge? 
 COACH BOB KNIGHT:  I haven't really thought about that. 
 What I try to do simply here today was I have always thought that you start out the season trying to win the National Championship.  When that's eliminated you are trying to go to the NCAA.  You just -- always have a goal. 
 Our goal today was simply that in the first four years we have been here we have won at least one game in a tournament.  Our goal was to win a game in the tournament.  And then see what we can do from there.  So now we'll try and work on what we have to do from there from the rest of the day. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT