NL DIVISION SERIES: ASTROS v BRAVES
October 5, 1999
Shane Reynolds
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Why were you so much more effective today than in your last three starts?

SHANE REYNOLDS: I don't know. The short rest, myself and Vernon, the pitching coach,
took the last three days throwing off the mound trying to find out if it was a mechanical
problem; if it was arm angle. What seemed to have -- second half of the season, the last
4, 5 starts, I lost the sink on the ball, sharpness of the split finger, a little bit of
the control. I am a control-type pitcher that is not overpowering. I think hopefully,
knock on wood, that may have been something that we may have found. I think the arm angle
was a little more than three-quarters -- I thought I had pretty good movement, sink on the
ball; got some ground balls when I needed to. Was able to spot some pitches early in the
count and get ahead. I think hopefully that was what was the problem.

Q. You seemed content with the ground ball out; you only had one strikeout, but it was
a big one when you needed it. Talk about that.

SHANE REYNOLDS: Yeah, I don't consider myself a power-pitcher. I consider myself a
sinker-control-type guy, try to get ahead and stay ahead. In that situation, yeah, I mean,
he swung the bat very well. He has got a lot of power. Key part of the game, I think.
Could have been a situation there where the game could have been blown up. I thought I
made some real good pitches. We pitched away most of the game. We came in and tried to get
the speed off his bat. It was just a situation where I was just able to get a pitch
behind, nothing special or nothing he did wrong or I did right, just trying to make a
quality pitch in a crucial situation of the game; just happened to work out.

Q. With their 6 to 1 record against you this year and their record in Division Series
play, did that help with your determination and get you guys up today?

SHANE REYNOLDS: Oh, there is no doubt. Playoffs, postseason are unbelievable. It is
easy to get up for these games, very exciting, enthusiasm is there. You know it is going
to be tough and battle the whole way through, especially with these guys. Anybody that can
be put out there on the mound to face you has a lot of experience and has great stuff.
They have got a good defense, team speed, power also. Coming in here we knew that
essentially to get off on a good foot; have a good game, play an exciting game and a tough
game and try to win. That is no doubt. But it worked out. The ball bounced our way. We
played good, good defense; made our plays; scored some runs in key situations when we
needed to, and you can't say enough about the bullpen. Trever got the out when he needed
to get the out. Doug Henry was unbelievable an inning and two-thirds; Wagner has done his
job all year and came in to get the last three outs. Coming in here and winning the first
game against Greg Maddux, yeah, very big, but it is only one game. 

Q. What did you think when the Braves had that suicide squeeze with you at-bat. Did you
think you should have gotten the ball Williams hit up the middle?

SHANE REYNOLDS: Situation like that, I am a guy that I think handles the bat pretty
well. As far as bunting, I was okay with the situation, however they wanted to do it. I
just didn't want to hit into a double play. It was a situation where first pitch was a
strike, 1 and 0 count, they could have done that two or three times in a row and still
been okay. So it was a chance they took; just happened to work out for them. Yes, I am
glad you said that I should have had that ball up the middle. Kind of jammed him, first
reaction was maybe a little flinch, but, yeah, I was pretty much upset at myself and I
should have made that play. I think I will make that play if it happened again; maybe not,
but crucial situation of the game, yeah, I felt like I should have made that play.

Q. Shane, it was obvious you did not want Chipper Jones to beat you here. How much did
you watch him in the series against the Mets? How much did you want to not have him beat
you hear?

SHANE REYNOLDS: That was pretty much the plan we got to stick with. Had a pitchers
meeting today and we went over their hitters and what we wanted to do and that was
something that we had talked about and stressed thoroughly. If there was a situation
whatsoever, a guy in scoring position or time of the game was crucial, you know, don't
give in, don't give him anything to hit or anything to beat you. He has been the guy for
them all year that is swinging a hot bat, clutch hitter, so, yeah, I mean, even when he
steps up with a one-run lead, he's got a chance to tie the ballgame even nobody on base,
so, yeah, we didn't -- we were like, okay, don't throw anything over the plate; don't give
anything too bad; take a chance on walking him. So that was a situation that we had talked
about and we tried to stay with the whole game.

Q. How hard is it to put him on base in those situations?

SHANE REYNOLDS: It is tough. I am a guy that doesn't like to walk guys very much. But
on the other hand, I am a guy that gives up a lot of hits sometimes. I would rather not,
but in a situation like this, in a crucial game which we knew it would be tight, you know,
not many runs scored, you got to take that chance. You got to take the chance put him on
base and hopefully make your pitches to the next guy.

Q. Shane, a couple of years ago you had a disappointing loss here. How do you compare
the way you pitched in that one to the way you pitched tonight?

SHANE REYNOLDS: Pretty close, I think. I had pitched 6 or 7 innings and I think I had
given up two runs in that situation. The other pitcher great, a shutout or I think one run
or something like. No better feeling than to come in and get a win, no doubt. Tremendous
excitement. Guys were upbeat and we feel really good coming in here and establishing what
we did and winning this first game. But it is a five-game series; you got to win two more,
so we got to do our job the next few days.

Q. Shane, talk about who you'd rather face in a bases loaded situation Klesko or
Jordan?

SHANE REYNOLDS: Rather not have the bases loaded in a situation like that, but that is
tough. I think sometimes I pitch a little better against lefties sometimes. Ryan hit the
ball pretty good today. He had two or three hits, so it just -- just worked out. For us
today, the ball kind of bounced our way. When Bobby made out the lineup he didn't know in
the fifth inning it was going to be bases loaded and who in that spot. Just a situation to
where I was able to make a couple of good pitches and throw that ball in a good spot a
little up and away, and it worked out for us. I mean, it was a key situation, I think
because the bases were loaded, but we had a one-run lead or a tie ballgame in that
situation; it could have been blown open for them. So it was a key situation for us; just
happened to work out.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT