ROLAND GARROS
June 8, 2017
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PRESS CONFERENCE   
ANA IVANOVIC   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Congratulations on your special accolade here at Roland Garros.  We have just seen highlights from your Roland Garros victory on the big screen.  Tell us how that felt watching it back.  
ANA IVANOVIC: Well, as I was preparing for today, I really was promising that I will not cry, and it was very hard to hold my tears back.  It brought back a lot of emotions, actually.  It was so wonderful.   
I do have very special bond with this place and Philippe Chatrier.  And to walk on and see my family there, it was very hard but sweet at the same time.   
 Q.  How has life been treating you ever since you decided not to play professionally anymore?  How are you enjoying it?  What do you miss or enjoy most?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Well, it's never easy.  It's been my whole life.  But I really enjoy my time not having to have everyday schedule made for me and having a little bit more freedom.   
I have been busy.  I do miss competition, but I get to travel a little bit on my own terms, which is a little bit different.  And get chance to walk around, explore, and not having to sort of save my energy for the match days.  I don't have to take care of jet lag and all those things.   
But I still watch a lot and keep in touch with some of my friends on tour.  Yeah, it was very emotional to be back here for the first time in tennis tournament.   
 Q.  How often do you actually play tennis these days?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Well, to be honest, it was a little bit busy time, so I haven't played that much.  I definitely plan to play a little more.  I have some exhibitions coming up, so I'm going to be playing.   
 Q.  You have given the game a lot.  What has the game of tennis given you?  What would you like to say to young people to inspire them to play tennis in future?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Well, it's been my life.  It has given me my life.   
I was very honored and blessed to have opportunity to do something I love.  I always try to encourage people to live healthy and play sport, because I started as young girl watching Monica play.  I tried to inspire people to do that.   
And also, since I kind of distanced myself a little bit from the sport and being in that sort of circle, I learned even more, as well, about what I achieved.  I really appreciate much more what other girls and guys go through, because it is very unique.  Sometimes lonely, but very rewarding.   
 Q.  Can you see yourself in a little further future coming back as a coach, as a super coach?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Not really, not really.  I do want to focus on, you know, leading the healthy life and being fit, but I can't really see myself as a tennis coach.  Maybe as a mentor to help here and there a little bit as advice, but definitely not on tour (smiling).   
 Q.  Don't you think you stopped a little early?  Since the level of the women's tennis in these days is not probably as great as it was when you were fighting and winning and so on?  That's one question.  The second is what do you think about your Serbian friend Djokovic and his apparent crisis?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Well, I don't think you choose the time you stop according to the tour at the time.  Depends who you are.  Some people will say I stopped too late.  I think everyone feels when it's the right time for them.  And it definitely wasn't a decision overnight.   
There were so many factors that influenced that decision for me.  It's been now almost six months.  I do not regret it.  I am very happy where I'm at at the moment, and I'm still learning a lot.  I want to improve.  I want to share everything I have learned.   
Yeah, I think it was the right time for me.  I do miss it sometimes.  Like I said, when I watch, I miss competition but...   
 Q.  You miss us.  
ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I don't miss the questions really, Why did you lose?  What happened today?  (Smiling).   
Well, I really believe Novak will come back.  I think it's amazing what he's done, being on top for so long.  It's not easy to maintain that level.  It's maybe a little bit more easier, men's than women's, but still I think it's amazing.   
And sometimes you just need a break.  And also, the tour doesn't really give you that time to sort of reflect and enjoy also the success.  Sometimes it takes a little time, but I'm sure he'll be back.   
 Q.  Welcome back to Paris.  Now in women's tennis a lot of stuff is going on, like Maria Sharapova came back, and Petra Kvitova came back from that tragedy, and Serena is pregnant.  Maybe in this tournament we're gonna have a new champion, could be very young champion.  So in your eyes, how do you see the current women's tennis situation?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Well, like I said, I do follow and I do enjoy to watch.  I think you always see a change of generations.  I'm sure there is a lot of new stars coming up.  You know, we have Jelena today winning the match, which I can relate to.   
I think it's gonna come back, you know, in that sense of having the rivalries like we had and I had when I was first starting.   
Yeah, I'm sure it will happen again.  You already have some great matches.   
 Q.  What's the biggest project at the moment you're facing?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Well, as I said, I have idea to create something that will show people what -- to share what I learn in sort of like how you combine being healthy, being fit.  Also, handling stress.  Because not only do we go through sort of stress and anxiety when we play, but also in everyday life people go through that, whether it's job, whether it's personal life.  So I want to create some kind of content to share that with the people.   
I was really surprised when I sort of went to America how welcomed that was.  So that is the project at the moment we are working most on.  And we do have some offers, and we are just checking which way to go about it.   
 Q.  Do you have time for travel?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, it is quite busy, actually.  I enjoy that.  I still feel like I want to be in one spot and not travel so much, but I do enjoy going for trips.  I love being back here.   
I'm sure I will be back in London and New York and all great places.   
 Q.  (Off microphone.)  
ANA IVANOVIC: Yes.  At the moment, it's not on my schedule for next few weeks.  It's quite busy.  But yes, in the future, definitely.   
 Q.  Besides winning here in 2008, is there any other exciting moments in your career you remember for the rest of your life?  Can you share with us?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Yes, there are so many.  There are so many moments that I will never forget.   
Lots of these moments are actually coming from Paris.  But then there are also some great memories from Singapore, playing there, year-end Championships, the great matches I played in Cincinnati, when I won in Indian Wells, Australian, and also winning Auckland.   
There are some moments I think in each player's career that maybe from the outside doesn't seem much, but for us players they are very precious.   
 Q.  When you watch yourself back, hoisting the trophy almost a decade ago, did it feel like yesterday or did it feel like a decade ago?  
ANA IVANOVIC: In a way, it feels like another lifetime, but on the other side felt like I was here yesterday playing and competing.  So it's still very "young" sort of, like I was here yesterday, really.  Very emotional.   
 Q.  Are you spending some time in Chicago?  Is that true?  And if so, talk about Chicago.  What do you love about it?  What do you not love about it?  Are the Cubs as good as they are made out to be?  And if you could play one player who you have never played, who would that player be?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Okay.  So that's actually the hard question.   
The easy one is -- well, yeah, it's been like a quick change.  First time for me that I kind of settle down somewhere.  I really like the city.  People are super friendly.  It's lovely having the lake there.  The Cubs are good.  It's fun.   
Although I do love hockey.  It was my first hockey game ever, and I really enjoy the energy.   
But the wind, the only thing (smiling).  Seriously, the wind, it's not the question if it's windy or not, it's a question if it's sunny or not.  The wind is always there.   
But it's been really exciting times, yeah.   
 Q.  And one player?  
ANA IVANOVIC: One player.  Well, I would love to have opportunity to play with Monica, of course.  That's been my dream.  I would also love to test myself against some of the young players coming up.   
 Q.  Are you spoiled as a Serbian soccer fan?  How bad is American soccer really?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Well, I don't know if that's question for me.  I'm just a spectator.   
But, yeah, I enjoy going out and watch.  I can see the change since we are there, and it's good to see it is becoming more popular.  The stadiums are becoming more full.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT