SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 23, 2012
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. IVANOVIC/V. King
  6‑4, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You had a relatively tough straight‑set match today.   I know you played her in Australia.   Anything different this time around, do you think?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, she was playing really well today I thought, especially beginning of the match.   She was moving well and executing well, especially off the backhand side and was going often down the line. 
I was making one or two unforced errors too much in the beginning, but I'm just happy that I took my opportunities.   Because these kind of matches can be very tricky and tough.   It's important to get through them.   And especially in that second set I'm happy that I managed to break her back and, you know, come back and win.

Q.   I know after you pulled out of the Indian Wells semifinal you said you were getting an MRI.   How did that turn out?
ANA IVANOVIC:   It was fine.   It was nothing major.   It was like some micro‑tears, nothing big that MRI could pick up, which was really good.   I still took about three days off and was just playing very little last few days.
Yeah, it's still not 100%, yeah.   I'm working at it, yeah.

Q.   Do you feel like you still have the momentum here from your good run in Indian Wells, though?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely, although the conditions are a lot different here.   I think a lot of people find the change very hard.
Today, I must say, it was hot, but I didn't mind it.   I was really happy it wasn't windy.   That was I think the big difference between those two events.
So, yeah, just trying to adjust and accept that in the wind sometimes you have to make more errors.

Q.   What kind of treatment are you taking?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Like magnet stimulation and laser and ice and massage and all kinds of‑‑ all possible (smiling).

Q.   On rankings, with this win you now move up to being the No. 1 Serbian woman for the first time since 2008. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Oh, that's nice.

Q.   What are your thoughts about that?
ANA IVANOVIC:   That's nice, but I actually don't try and look at the rankings.   Nigel just told me last week, Oh, great, you're 15.   I said, I played semifinal to move one spot?   He's like, Yeah. 
Actually, no, I'm just really happy with where my game is at the moment.   Also, I was real excited to be ranked 10 in the race, which was kind of my goal for the year.   So that kind of was exciting.   I was like, Oh, we have to have a glass of wine tonight. 
Just trying to take it light hearted.   But if you play well results take care of yourselves.

Q.   What kind of wine?
ANA IVANOVIC:   I like Australian shiraz.   Red wine.   I don't drink white.   That's actually the only thing I can drink.

Q.   There was a stretch of slams in '07 and '08 where you played Venus Williams three straight times.   You beat her at the Australian.   What are your thoughts and what it might be playing like if you might play her here on her comeback?
ANA IVANOVIC:   It's always a great challenge to play her, either Williams sister.   It's always a tough match.   There is no doubt about that. 
Last year in Eastbourne I played her just as she was coming back, as well.   Grass court, it's very tricky, as well.   She has big serve and big shots, so it's gonna be a good test, I think, for both of us, obviously being her first tournament back.
I think we still have tough matches before that encounter.   So I really want to take care of my next match, because it's not gonna be easy one.

Q.   Scale of 1 to 10, let's say Indian Wells is 10, where do you put your condition now?
ANA IVANOVIC:   I feel good about my game.   You know, things are coming together nicely.   I get lots of confidence from last week.
Still, you know, I have to work a little bit on my glute.   It's still not 100%, which I was a little bit concerned about.   But hopefully I can have another day off tomorrow and try and recover. 
But my game is definitely there.   I really want to take that confidence from last week on to this one.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT