BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 16, 2012
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. SHARAPOVA/A. Ivanovic
  6‑4, 0‑1 (ret.)

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Can you tell us what happened?   When did you start feeling any pain?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, I started to feel it in the middle of the first set.   I did not actually feel like anything pulled or anything, it just gradually got worse and worse.   I really found it hard on 3‑4 to return.   I really couldn't push off and get up.
And then on my serve very next game it was getting worse and worse and I couldn't jump off my leg.   I start to feel a lot of pain through my glute and couldn't load on my backhand side.
So after the treatment, it was just getting worse and worse rapidly.   We taped it and then I tried to continue, but, like, it was‑‑ at the end, I couldn't even return.   I couldn't even stand there on my return.   I couldn't load even if it was just on the right side.

Q.   So what have you done after the end of the match?
ANA IVANOVIC:   I have been icing it and I have been trying to arrange the MRI for tomorrow, because obviously it's a strain.   You know, I think it's important to see how big it is or how the treatment, it's gonna be.

Q.   Is it the first time it's happened to you?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, I had a strain in the past, but it's just very strange because I didn't feel like it on any particular shot.

Q.   It was quite a high‑quality through that first half of that first set.   Can you talk us through just before you picked up the injury kind of how things were going out there for you?
ANA IVANOVIC:   No, I'm very disappointed, because I felt like I was playing really good tennis and it was great match.   We were pushing each other, and we both had been playing well actually from the first moment on in that match.
I thought that the whole two weeks I have been playing really, really well.   It's very disappointing to finish it this way.   You know, at the end, it just wasn't about tennis, you know. 
Yeah, I'm sad.

Q.   Have you heard anything more particular than the strain?   Glute, you said?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, it's my glute.   I went straight to doctor and he said obviously it's a strain, but he can't say anything.   He needs to see the MRI.   So tomorrow morning, first thing I'm gonna do is get that checked and see what kind of tear or strain it is. 
And therefore, he said, I can let you know how long it's gonna take for it to recover.

Q.   I know you were talking after the Bartoli match, how helpful Nigel was when he came out to visit.   What sort of things was he saying today about your injury?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Oh, I mean, I just called him to ask him what to do.   I felt like I couldn't load, and, you know, at this level you need to be 100% in order to play.   I could not load on my backhand and I couldn't jump on my serve, so, you know, I was really feeling, you know, hopeless, you know, because there was no way I could play that level.
You know, obviously it was the only way.   I don't even know‑‑ like, we didn't even talk about tennis at all.

Q.   You were talking earlier this week about how you regretted playing through the thumb injury that you had after Wimbledon.   In terms of picking up another injury now and we're heading into a pretty busy part of the schedule, I mean, how are you gonna use that experience to look at which tournaments you play, which ones you pull out of?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, that's why I really want to get it checked tomorrow so I know exactly what I'm dealing with.   At this moment I don't know.   I just know it's painful to walk up the stairs.
Yeah, I just want to actually see what I have.   But I'm gonna try‑‑ I have physio in Miami, so she's gonna be there.   I'm gonna try and get there as soon as I can and start treatment.
But definitely gonna take a few days off and see how that plays out.   But that was another reason I thought there was no point of continuing, because these kind of injuries only can get worse.

Q.   I know this is obviously a really unfortunate way to end the tournament, but is there any way you can step back a little and talk about the progress that you had been making and still feel good about the steps that you've taken this week in the last couple of matches?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I mean, it's been amazing two weeks.   I really felt like I have been playing the best tennis probably played in a very, very long time.   It wasn't only one match.   It was very consistently.
You know, even today and against top players I can bring that level.   That's what's very encouraging.   You know, I hope it's nothing that's gonna put me away from court for too long so I can start straight back into it. 
Because I feel physically very good.   I have been playing lots of matches and didn't even have a muscle pain.   It's a bit unfortunate, and I really want to keep at it and try to get stronger and improve.

Q.   Was it weird standing there in the tunnel, you know, standing there with Maria?   You haven't played since '08.   What are some of the emotions there?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, actually I tried to just focus on what I had to do out there.   I knew obviously it was, you know, big occasion, and I really wanted to play well.
That's why I'm really happy I started well from the first moment on.   You know, actually in the tunnel they asked me, and I said, You know, it's strange, you know, because in a way last time we played it was like the biggest rivalry at that time.   We haven't played since, which is little strange a little bit.
Yeah, it's been exciting to have opportunity to play against top players again.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT