DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 22, 2012
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. IVANOVIC/M. Kirilenko
  6‑2, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   That was good in the end, but there were a few ups and downs.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   I mean, it was a little bit strange match, I would say, especially the second set.   There was just so many breaks and so many return winners.   
You know, it was just very strange and it was hard to get the rhythm.   There were not too many long rallies and then all of a sudden one you would have one.   
So I really thought I managed well to keep my composure in the tiebreak, despite being 3‑Love up, going 4‑3 down, you still managing to win.   
   
 Q.   Was it a little unsettling beforehand whether you were actually going to play or not?   She pulled out of doubles and then there were wrong reports she pulled out of the singles as well.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, you know, it was actually in my mind because everyone was sort of approaching me and telling me this.   I kept getting these messages.   I'm like, Well, I don't know anything.   I have to prepare myself like I'm going to play, yet everyone was saying opposite.  
So it was a little bit hard and it was little bit unsettling I must say in the first set.   But then, you know, I managed to win that set quite easily.   Middle of the set I could tell she was fine.   
Then I just had to go down to business and just try to work my way through the match.   
   
 Q.   How much of a key to your game is your serve?   It's been a problem, hasn't it, in the past sometimes?   You said the other day you think it's improving.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, it is.   I think in Australia I had really high percentage of my first serves.   I must say today it wasn't great.   I wasn't really happy with it.   It held well in the tiebreak when I needed it.   You know, on 4‑3 down I served two good serves, and that was very, very important.  
But, you know, it's still work in progress.   I just really felt unsettled today.   It was a little bit of a strange match, so I really want to try and focus on the next one and try to improve.   
   
 Q.   Nigel said in Australia that part of his job was getting you to believe in yourself a bit more and getting you to see that you are more of a champion.   Is it a question of belief with you, would you say, at times perhaps?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, I tell you, in the practice I can do any shot you can imagine.   You know, it's great.   I really practice well.   It's matter of applying that in the matches.  
I think that belief and confidence comes in winning matches.   There is no other way to fake it.   That's something that maybe I lack a little, just that continuity in winning matches and getting deep into tournaments.  
But matches like today, you know, toughening it out and getting through that match, and match like last night where I played really good tennis, it's all positive steps towards that confidence.   
   
 Q.   And yesterday you said that you still had confidence your game could matchup against the best.   It's likely to sound a bit presumptuous, but it's likely you'll face Wozniacki next.   You looking forward to that?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I look forward to play whoever is going to win that match.   I think it's tough match for both of them.   I've been watching Simona; she's been playing some good tennis as well.  
I think they're a little bit different opponents.   I think.   I think I never played Halep, though.   It's going to be tough match no matter what.   Will be a good challenge for me.  
I would love to play Caroline.   We haven't played in a while, and I was always looking forward though that challenge.  
   
 Q.   Is Maria Sharapova someone you could look to take a leaf out of almost?   You've won a Grand Slam before Maria, and yet she's now second in the world.   Is she someone you could emulate to get back up there?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   I think she won Grand Slam while I was still playing juniors.  
   
 Q.   No, no.   You won the French in 2008 and her last was Australia 2008.   So you've won before her in that regard.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Okay.   No, I mean, she's definitely great champion and great player.   She's someone tennis needs.   We need players like this.   You know, it's unfortunate she's not here this week.   
But definitely there is a lot of things you can learn from other players, you know, a lot of things that young kids can learn from her or anyone else that's in the top.  
   
 Q.   You talked about confidence.   Have you ever worked with a sports psychologist?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   No, I never really did.   Yeah, I don't know.   I really felt like‑‑ I felt like the problem‑‑ it was confidence, but it was because not everything in my game was sort of matching.  
It was always whether it was physical or it was my tennis or it was my serve.   Never I felt I had every part of my game working well, so therefore, it was always tough and always had to battle something.  
And then, you know, the real situation is when you feel like everything is in place.   And when I said once I feel everything is in place and I still can't see the results or I still struggle, that's maybe when I'll think of seeing someone.   (Smiling.)   
   
 Q.   When was the last time everything was in place?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, you know, it's getting there.   I can't really complain now.   I'm really happy the way everything is going.  
I also accepted that's it's going to be a process and sometimes it might not be the quick one.   It's also a matter of enjoying it.  
We create so much stress for ourselves, and I think girls tend to do that more than guys probably.   You know, you try to let that go, and that's not every day easy.  
But you enjoy it more and then it becomes game like once was when I was starting.  
   
 Q.   Nigel told me today in the breakfast room that you were no longer gluten‑free.   Now, because Novak and Andy Murray are sort of extolling the virtues of a gluten‑free diet, why did you decide it wasn't?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, I try still to avoid pasta and I eat rice.   But sometimes you don't have an option, and I'll have a piece of bread if I'm starving and there is nothing else to have.   
I just try not to be too obsessed about it.   I still try to eat healthy and I avoid some thing that I know they are bad for me.  
But, you know, most of the people are kind of intolerant to gluten or dairy or whatever it is.   I think it's matter of a little bit relaxing and, you know, eating what your body asks for.  
   
 Q.   You're very fashion conscious.   Why don't your nails match your tennis dress?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   You know, everyone does that all the time.   Everyone matches everything.   I said, You know what?   I can't do it.   It's such a cliche.   I had issue on this one today.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT