CHINA OPEN
October 10, 2015
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. Was it a matter of just wanting it too badly today?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Maybe a little bit, yeah. And I felt like that second set was a breaking point of the match, the first game of it and also the game on 5‑4 as I was coming back. It was very, very important. Yeah, I was a little bit disappointed after that.   
   
 Q. You looked quite emotional during that second set. What was driving that?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Well, obviously was a little bit of frustrations because I felt like I was creating lot of opportunities for myself and I just couldn't execute the important points. I found myself 5‑1 down, whereas it could have been easily the other way around, or it could at least be 3‑All or something. It was very frustrating.   
She was bringing lots of balls back. She used a lot her forehand slice. It was coming very, very low. Yeah, so that was a little bit tricky.   
But I managed to get back into that second set.   
   
 Q. What is your plan for the next couple of weeks? Do you plan on playing another tournament?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Luxembourg. I'm going to take a little bit of time off.   
   
 Q. I know you're struggling with some back issues since some days already. Was it worse today than previous matches?  
ANA IVANOVIC: It was a little bit. I felt it on impact again. It's something I have to really work on in the off‑season. Yeah, it was a little bit, yeah, bothering me. But it's been like this for, like you say, for a few days already.   
   
 Q. It's the second year you lose in the semifinals. How do you evaluate today's performance compared to the semifinals last year with Maria?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Well, I felt like I had a lot more opportunities today. Like I said, you know, I was actually in a good shape to win that first set, then had chances in the second.   
But, yeah, I thought was much closer match obviously than last year's semifinal. Hopefully I can go a step further next year.   
   
 Q. Before you came to the China Open, you had to win a final to secure a position in Singapore. Do you feel frustrated now you haven't completed this mission?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, definitely. To be honest, I was not aware of that situation until last night. So that did not help, definitely.   
But, yeah, I was really enjoying competition and I played some great tennis to get in this position, so it was very frustrating today.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT