AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2012
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/A. Ivanovic
  6‑2, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Thoughts on that?   
ANA IVANOVIC:   It was tough match, definitely.   I really struggled with the rhythm in the beginning.   She is tough opponent.   You really have to get that hit on the ball, otherwise she likes to dominate and step up and take her chances.  
I really felt I was lacking that in the first set and sort of in the second set.   In the second set I started to serve a lot better, which helped me to come to 1‑All, 2‑All.   Then I really fought back hard trying to come back and started to strike the ball a lot better.  
You know, it was just really pity that I didn't use opportunities I had.   But she served really well.   You know, she's playing well.   Being lefty it's also really hard to read her serve.   
But I really tried hard and today.   Just the rhythm was lacking a bit.  
   
 Q.   How did you try and get back into that match?   Mentally how did you find that rhythm?   
ANA IVANOVIC:   It's very hard, especially against Petra, because she goes for her shots and you don't get good rhythm.   For example, having long rallies, it's not going to happen.   You really have to try and get a swing on the ball and hope you will get into rhythm and that's going to cause some errors.   
That's what happened to me today.   She's not kind of player who is going to let you get back in the rhythm.   You to try and focus on the things you work in practice and sort of try to copy that and do it over and over again.   
Towards the end of second set I really felt like I was striking the ball nicely, and that felt really good.   It's just pity that it was quite late in the second set.   
   
 Q.   Do you think she was thrown off by missing the overhead towards the end of the second set?   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Maybe.   Maybe a bit.   But, you know, it was a big point, I guess.   But it was a bit hard also with the sun right at the top.  
But, you know, it was my serve and she still was serving quite well up to that point.   I really had to step it up, and I really tried to swing at the ball and tried to be aggressive.   It worked well, so I was happy I managed to break that game.  
   
 Q.   Her power off the ground, does it compare to the biggest hitters in the game:   Serena, Kim?   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, it definitely does.   I think in the beginning of the match I actually felt like the ball was going to come a little faster.   I got caught few times like not turned enough because the ball would skid through.   She's a good player and No. 2 for a reason.  
So, yeah, she definitely generates a lot of power.   
   
 Q.   She's probably going to take over the No. 1 at some point in the near future.   What advice would you give her having climbed that mountain yourself?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, she should just keep at what she's doing the best and keep‑‑ her game is very aggressive and has a good serve.   Being a lefty, I think it's great advantage, because we don't face so many players playing left‑hand, and obviously ball spins differently.  
She should just keep doing what she's doing.   She's great young player.  
   
 Q.   I know you've worked on your serve recently and seems like you did serve really well in this tournament.   Are you happy with that part of your game?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I served really well, that's why today was frustrating.   I still felt like my rhythm was there and just wasn't executing well and miss‑timing the ball a little bit.  
But there were a lot positive throughout this week.   You know, it's something that motivates me to stay on top of it and work even harder at it.   It's definitely improved since last year.   
   
 Q.   You had a pretty solid result here this week.   How are you feeling generally about your game and where it was compared to three, four years ago?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, like I said, there is a lot of improvements that I feel I gained over off‑season.   You know, it's been nice, nice tournament for me.   I played some really good tennis and proved to myself that I can play that level and compete against the best.  
That's definitely something that motivates me to now work harder.   And, you know, there is still plenty of work to be done, but I'm enjoying competing on this level again.   I just want to have to have a good year.  
   
 Q.   (Question off mic.)  
ANA IVANOVIC:   We just, you know, just support each other and try to be there for each other as much as we can.   
   
 Q.   You ever talk to Caroline about dating a golfer?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, I don't think either of us plays really well.   You mean playing golf or...  
   
 Q.   No, dating a golfer.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   No, she did ask me like what kind of shoes should I take to walk on the course.   Just the most comfortable ones.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT