AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2012
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. IVANOVIC/M. Krajicek
  6‑2, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Seems to be quite an easy win for you.   Was it like that?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   No, it definitely got tough in the second set in particular.   I think she was serving really well the first serve.   It was tough for me to read it at times.   
So I really thought I did well on my serves and stayed calm and hold my serves, which is very important.   
But she gave me a tough match.   I expected to work hard today.   
   
 Q.   Were you afraid of her service because when it worked you had a lot of pressure?   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   Like I said, it was hard to read it at times.   
I really practiced a lot against guys actually.   That kind of gave me confidence that I can handle fast serves.   
But I thought I did really well and created lot of pressure on her second serves and forced her to make some double‑faults.  
   
 Q.   It seems the game you are playing suits the surface well.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I enjoy playing here.   Last couple matches have been really lots of fun.   It's been good to also apply things I worked on in off‑season.   
There are no easy matches.   Next round again is going to be tough one.   But I feel like I'm getting into tournament.   It's nice to get some wins and be in contention to play against top players.  
   
 Q.   You seem much more sure of yourself and calm compared to last year against Makarova.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   I worked a lot on my game in the off‑season.   When I'm out there I really know what I have to do and I stay with it.   I'm more persistent and confident in that because I know that's what's going to give me results and help me to play better.   
It might not work on a given day and I try to adjust.   In the long run, in the big picture, that's what's going to get me back to the top.  
   
 Q.   Is part of that making the game plan a little more simple than complicated?   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   I mean, today at times I felt maybe I was a little too passive.   I could have been more aggressive.   
But still, like I said last time, I really tried to pick the right ball to come in and be aggressive.   That's something I worked a lot also on my spin, on my forehand, so I don't play as flat as I used to.   
It's working really well.   I can sort of push opponents around the court.   
   
 Q.   Can you hear what the fans are saying in the crowd?   If so, what are they saying to you?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Sometimes.   The last match I played they were quite loud.   Serbians were singing songs, keeping me entertained.   
Today was a little bit more quiet.   But still it's always great to have a big support.   I always feel like I do here.   
   
 Q.   Caroline has been trying a little bit of golf.   She's had a good teacher.   How about you?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Oh, my golf is not so good.   I can hit the ball sometimes.   I putt good, though.   I can do that.   
My swing off the tee can be good, but out of the fairway hardly ever I hit the ball.  
   
 Q.   Is Adam going to be able to come and watch you?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, he's been at both of my matches.   He's going to stay.   It's great to have that support.  
   
 Q.   What is he like at tennis?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   He can play.   I told him he's going to warm me up for my match.   So he's prepared (smiling).  
   
 Q.   Serena got a bit scared of the insects out on court.   Are you afraid of bugs at all?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   No, no.   More snakes.   Or sharks.   (Laughter.)   
   
 Q.   So you played on a court with snakes?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   No.   Luckily growing up in Serbia we don't have too many.   Not the dangerous ones.   Although my dad found really poisonous snake on golf course when he was playing, the black one.   I don't know the name.   
   
 Q.   Here in Australia?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, here in Australia.   Actually in Perth.   He was actually quite scared.   
   
 Q.   You swim in Australia, but you're still afraid of sharks?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I am.   But did you ever see me swim (laughter)?   I swim in the water back and forth.   I need to have someone further than me, then I feel safe.  
   
 Q.   Marcos Baghdatis smashed four racquets last night in one minute.   When is the last time you smashed a racquet, and have you ever smashed that many?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   You might be surprised, but I do smash racquets sometimes.   Last time I smashed not as many, but I smashed three racquets.   That was US Open I think '09.   I lost match after being a match point up.   I was quite upset.   
It didn't really make me better, so I decided, What's the point?   
   
 Q.   The crowd last night when Azarenka was playing, they were imitating her constantly every point, the grunt.   Have you ever been in a situation where the crowd was so on you that you got uncomfortable?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   No, not really.   Although, when I played Serena in US Open I really felt they were behind her, which is kind of normal.   
But it's very important to just focus and sort of trying to do things you're good at.   It sometimes can be hard, but it's important to put it out of your mind.   
   
 Q.   On your team, which you've changed at times.   I know you're comfortable now with Nigel.   Is part of the reason why you changed the team is because you're a little bit impatient with them helping you to get further?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   No, not really.   I just felt like it wasn't right structure for me.   I had a lot of stress.   I just wanted to get rid of that.   I put enough pressures on myself.   I really wanted to make it simple and just go back to basics, and that's what I'm doing.   
I feel really comfortable in the environment I have now.   I think that's been the biggest change.   It was tough one.   It was kind of radical because you always have so many people on your team.   
But I really feel it's helped my game a lot, and my mental side as well.   It's been great.  
   
 Q.   Do you like being the boss or do you let your mom make the big decisions about that?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   No, I don't like being the boss.   I mean, me and Nigel take a lot of decisions.   We speak and see what works for us.   It's definitely, you know, our communication.   
   
 Q.   In Brisbane, Nigel came onto the court a lot to discuss tactics with you mid‑set.   He can't do that in a Grand Slam.   Does that affect you at all that you don't have that interaction with him during the match?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   No, not really.   I mean, tennis is individual sport.   It's really a bonus when you can get your coach on court to sort of help you fine tune few things.   
These kind of situations make you more aware of what's going on, make you think more.   Sometimes it's good, sometimes it's bad.   But it's fun way to figure out yourself, you know.   If one thing is not working, try to apply different things.   
But definitely before the match we have a game plan that I try to stick to.  
   
 Q.   They say the world is going to end this year.   What would you like to do before the world explodes?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Just live it up.   Live it up every day (laughter).   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT