CHINA OPEN
October 7, 2011
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/A. Ivanovic
  6-3, 3-2 (ret.)

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. (Through translation.) I would like to know about your injury, and will that affect your participation in the year-end Bali? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, I've been struggling with my back since actually beginning of last week in Tokyo. Been doing lots of treatments on it, but it hasn't been really getting much better. 
 So I was fighting with it basically throughout the whole week. I went yesterday to do MRI here, so still the doctors are looking at the results. I'm talking to physios and just making sure about the next steps to see what's wrong and what's going on.
 Yeah, it's too early to say anything. 

 Q. (Through translation.) When you're in China you have a lot of fans. Today on court, there were some fans coming from far, from the southern part of China. What would you like to say to them?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, it's very nice to see them and to get such big support here every time. I felt huge support, even today. It's very disappointing loss for me. I really hope I can recover fast and come back strong next year and see them again and stay probably longer. 

 Q. Unfortunately you quit the match. Do you think you have already got enough confidence since the China Open? And second question is quite similar to other journalist. I just met a family from your country, and they have a message they want me to give to you. It's in Serbian so I can't translate. Can you please translate to all the press tell something to this family?
 ANA IVANOVIC: You want me to translate this?

 Q. Yes. 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Just a family that obviously lives here, and they are watching me all the tournament and they wish me all the best. They would like to meet me. (Smiling.)

 Q. And do you have anything you want to say to the people that come from your country?
 ANA IVANOVIC: No, it's great support here always. We have lots of Serbians, and they been coming all week. It's nice to see our flag in the stadium here and on center court. I could hear them yell out things, which is always nice. It's always inspiration. 

 Q. You retired from Beijing Olympics three years ago, same court. It's not your first time to quit a match in this city. Do you think the city has some magic on you?
 ANA IVANOVIC: I would like to think not. (Smiling.) I love coming here and competing. I think it's a little bit different story, you know. It was very tough to pull out of Olympics, and it's very tough today. 
 But, you know, this is something that's been going on for the whole week. Actually, I kind of surprised myself that I got to this stage at all. But because I been playing some really good tennis, it is very disappointing way to finish. 

 Q. Apart from the injury, actually you played pretty well at the tournament, very good shape and form. According to right now, your status, when do you think you can go back to a Grand Slam final even grab a major title? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: It's been inspirational to see the things I've been working on coming together in matches. I did play some great tennis this week, probably the best I played in years. It's very inspiring. 
 I really want to focus now, you know, if I'm going to play the next few tournaments I have this year, and then try to have a really good off-season.
 Next year I think it's going to be a big year for me, and I really feel it's my opportunity to try and aim for the top again and maybe win a Grand Slam. 

 Q. Can you talk about what you think about your overall performance this year. 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, I'm very happy with my performance. Like I said, I really felt I was playing some best tennis I been playing in years, and it's very exciting, you know. 
 I was striking the ball really well, and that's why it's very disappointing to finish this way, because I really felt I was on a roll and things were starting to fall into place.
 But it's good incentive. It's important to see results in the matches, too. 

 Q. (Through translation.) We're very disappointed that you retired from the tournament. Will you go to the Bali year-end tournament? Also, during the match you have a shot that you made between the legs. In your daily practice do you have such an experience?
 ANA IVANOVIC: I think it's the first time ever in my life I made that shot. But, yeah, I mean, it was very hard. Obviously I had troubles moving a lot, and especially jumping on my serve because I have no feeling in my leg. But, yeah, it's something that I'm discussing with the physios what's the best way to move forward. 
 Like I said, I'm still waiting on results from MRI to see how to approach it, but I really hope I can play in Linz and then also Bali -- in Luxembourg, sorry, and then Bali. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT