CHINA OPEN
October 5, 2011
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. IVANOVIC/V. Zvonareva
  6-2, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Very dominant performance. Was that because she didn't play good or you're just too good?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, I was really happy with the way I played today. I thought she still played well, but I kept the ball deep and sort of didn't give her too many opportunities.
 I was very pleased with this, because she's a great player. We had tough match few months ago, so I really tried to step up today, and I thought I did that really well. I thought I really took away chances from her. 

 Q. (Through translation.) What do you think is the key factor for today's win, and how would you comment on your backhand?
 ANA IVANOVIC: I think being aggressive and playing really deep. I thought I also was returning really well today and was putting pressure on her from both sides, forehand and backhand.
 I think that that was the key, because she retrieves the ball really good, she's a great player, and strikes the ball really well. 
 But I really stepped up a lot and stayed low, and I thought that was the big difference today. 

 Q. (In Serbian. )
 ANA IVANOVIC: Shall I answer in English? (Laughter.)

 Q. Can you translate the question first?
 ANA IVANOVIC: It's a bit long. Basically it was about my work relationship with Nigel and Scott, if it's really helping me and if I believe in what we are doing. Obviously I am. It's been great, because I think it's important to trust in a team you work with. 
 Since we started after Wimbledon, I really felt we were doing the right things. Sometimes it takes time for things to fall into place, and through the summer in America I was playing well at times and I could see the progress.
 Now it's coming together even more so. We do have great views of where my game should get at and we have the same goals. I really believe that they can help me achieve my goals. 
 It's great, and I'm really enjoying competing again. I mean, playing like this it's a lot of fun to be out there. (Smiling.)

 Q. First congratulations for your victory. Two questions: First one, according to the main draw, you don't have a very good place in the main draw. It's quite tough. Currently, so far you have done very good. In the next match you are going to play against Radwanska, which is a great challenge. How will you prepare for the match? Second question is: Comparatively speaking, you are always doing better when the season comes to the end than in the very beginning. So how will you prepare when it comes to the end for the coming season? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, the draw was kind of tough. I booked my ticket for Monday. (Laughter.) No, I mean, I been playing really well. I was happy to go out there and compete and challenge myself against top players, because I really felt my game is at the level that I can play against these top players and actually win.
 You know, I know rankings tell different story, but you know, I'm really confident in what I'm doing on the court. So it's great, you know, to have these opportunities. Next match that's it's another tough challenge. She just won in Tokyo and she's been playing really well lately, so no doubt it's going to be a tough one.
 And the other question, I really felt like since I started with the new team I been improving a lot, and obviously we are all very excited about next year and what it can bring, because, yeah, first half of the year, it's going to be huge.
 But it could be also the holidays are approaching, so I have something to look forward to. (Laughter.)

 Q. Were you surprised by her performance? She seemed a bit lackluster, especially when she fell. What did you think then? Then you sort of say that you've been working on where your game should be. Do you have a plan then? Can you give us a flavor of where you think you might be six months from now, or do you have an actual goal?
 ANA IVANOVIC: I mean, she started very well. She broke me the first game, and I really tried to step up a little more. She had 40-15 in the second service game -- in her first service game and then again in the second service game, so I really felt like I did well and stayed in the game basically and created opportunities for myself. 
 It was, yeah, a little bit awkward when she slipped, but she played good since then. So I really felt like, yeah, I did well and kept her under pressure.
 What was the second part? 

 Q. You said you had an idea of where you should be in your game. 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, well, there is no secret that my game needed some improvement, especially my serve. That's something I've been focusing a lot on, and also on my forehand and, yeah, overall getting more consistent.
 That's something I still want to work on. You know, it still needs to fall into place. But I can see, you know, a benefit from it, and that's something that inspires and motivates me to keep up that work and get that base even higher. 

 Q. You quit the 2008 Olympics because illness. Do you have any plans for the London Olympics next year?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, you know, pulling out of Olympics here here back in '08, it was probably one of toughest moments of my career. So I'm really excited about opportunity to participate in London next year. 
 It's going to be nice to be part and actually get an opportunity to compete. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT