CHINA OPEN
October 3, 2011
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. IVANOVIC/S. Kuznetsova
  6-2, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. First of all, congratulations. Tonight's opponent is very tough, but you performed very well. Can you summarize tonight's match a little bit? Thank you. 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, it wasn't easy match. Kuznetsova is a great player and such a great champion. I didn't expect to play this well and have this scoreline, but I did execute balls and my shots very good, which I'm very happy about. 
 I was serving well and stayed calm and returning really well and putting her under pressure. I hit a lot of deep balls, which I was very pleased about. 

 Q. (Through translation.) I would like to ask what is your toughest moment in your professional career and how did you go through it?
 ANA IVANOVIC: One of the toughest moments was definitely pulling out of Olympics here back in '08. It was very hard because I was very excited to be here and to play. I was injured and I was struggling for a while. It was just after I won French Open and became No. 1. I wasn't able to practice or play and perform, so that was very, very hard. 

 Q. (Through translation.) Just now on court, some Chinese fans have sung some songs to cheer for you. How would you comment on the support of Chinese fans?
 ANA IVANOVIC: I always have great support here, and it's so nice to be back. Lots of people come to my practice and they a yell out things even in Serbian. It's amazing how much support I get here. I'm very pleased, and it helps me perform better. 

 Q. (Through translation.) How do you understand the WTA's slogan for this year's Strong is Beautiful campaign?
 ANA IVANOVIC: I think it's great for women's tennis and just being a woman in general. So many times we see models in magazines, and that's a little bit different than most of the girls and women look like. 
 I think it's much healthier being strong, and I think in a way that's beautiful. I think that's a great way to promote women's tennis. We are athletes after all, but we are yet women. 

 Q. In the next round you will probably play Vera Zvonareva, the Russian top player. Have you ever met on the court before, and can you give us some thoughts on her? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, we did. We played against each other just a few weeks -- a few months ago in San Diego. It was tough match. It was 6-4 in third set. So if I do play her, it's going to be another very tough match. 
 It's such a tough draw. There are no easy matches. I just want to go out there and try to do the best I can and try to perform like I did tonight. 

 Q. Currently we're pretty much at the end of the season. How are you going to assess your whole performance for this year? We know you haven't won any titles this season. How are you going to evaluate this whole season?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Beginning of the season was tough for me. I had a few injuries I battled. Since Wimbledon, since I got a new team with me, new coach and fitness coach, things are much better. I really feel I'm on the right path. 
 I did have some great weeks and great tournaments. I can already see progress in my game since I started implementing these things.
 You know, until the end of the year, I really want to focus on just enjoying my tennis and trying to apply things that I do on the practice court. Then I think next year it's going to be a big one. 

 Q. (Through translation.) I would like to ask you of all the players at WTA Tour, who do think is the most fashionable? In your own life, what do you think of fashion? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: I think it's very tough question. Well, I think we, as girls, we do like to follow fashion. Obviously if you ask any girl, she would tell you that her favorite thing to do is go shopping. 
 I think there are few girls out there that have always very different style. Some of them are really creative, like Mattek. She always comes with crazy outfits. There are other girls that are very nicely dressed, which is good to see. 

 Q. Currently your ranking is No. 18. How far do you think you are with the top player, No. 1 and No. 2? As a former No. 1, how long until you'll be back in top 10? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, I wish I knew answer to that question, when it's going to happen. I mean, obviously I want it to happen as soon as possible. I really feel I'm playing sometimes really like a top player. 
 Then again, rankings don't lie. I had tough first half of the year. Like I said it's a progress and a process. I have to be patient. But things are falling into place, and I'm really happy the way everything is going. 
 I'm enjoying competing, and that's what makes a big difference, being happy out there and just enjoying competition. 

 Q. (Through translation.) On the WTA Tour, who is your best friend? In next year's London Olympics, do you have any plan of playing doubles?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, my best friend is Crîstea, Sorana, from Romania. We're really good friends. There are a few other really nice girls.
 For next year's Olympics, I'm planning to play mixed doubles, so I'm not going to probably play doubles. It's going to be too much. 

 Q. Who is your partner?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Probably Zimonjic. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT