CHINA OPEN
October 2, 2011
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. IVANOVIC/K. Date-Krumm
  6-1, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. (In Serbian.) 
 ANA IVANOVIC: That was impressive. (In Serbian.) (Laughing.)
Yeah, it is a really to be back here. I really enjoy competing here. I have so many memories in this Olympic Stadium. I think it's amazing facilities for us as athletes. To be able to compete and perform here in the center court, it's amazing. 
 I played quite well today, which I'm very pleased with.

 Q. Your opponent today is over 40 years old. Have you ever imagined that in your tennis career or your life when you're 40 or just 30? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: What was the last bit? Did I ever imagine...

 Q. Your opponent is over 40. Have you imagined your life or career after 40, after 30?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I think it's amazing what she's done. She's still so fit and plays really good tennis. If I'm that fit when I'm 40, I will be more than happy. 

 Q. (Through translation.) Congratulations on your win. Yesterday your compatriot, Jelena Jankovic, lost the match. Have you had any contact with her after the match? And recently have you had any communications with your compatriot Novak Djokovic?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I spoke to Novak. I mean, what he's done this year, it's amazing. You know, it's great to see him do so well. It inspires me and I guess everyone else to achieve the same things and try to, you know, bring something more to tennis. 

 Q. The Serbian local newspaper reports that Novak Djokovic will be married at the end of this month. Have you heard about this? Because other female player didn't know about anything at all. 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, I'm not invited. (Laughter.) Either I'm not invited or it's not happening. No, I haven't heard really. I just think it's just rumors. I know Novak well, and I think, yeah, he would have announced it if it was serious. 

 Q. I would like to know what do you think of the current women's tennis? You know, more and more women's players have been major titles winners, also the very young women's players. You used to be the world No. 1 and you have the French Open title. How do you see that? It's very unlike men's tennis. 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, well, it's funny when at 23 you're considered old. But, yeah, I think it's good for women's tennis to see. We have so many tough competitors out there. 
 It's different than it used to be. I remember even first time I came on tour it was always similar people reaching quarterfinal or semifinal. Now it's a lot more younger players coming up and just playing fearless tennis and playing well and good competitors. So it makes it challenging for us as well. 
 I think it's great that we have new faces all the time and fresh people. It's still tough competition out there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT