U.S. OPEN
September 3, 2011
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. IVANOVIC/S. Stephens
  6-3, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Ana.   
  
  Q. Do you want to assess your performance overall, what you did well and what didn't go well?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: I thought I started off really well and was really aggressive which was really important because I actually haven't seen her play much in the past. But I could tell she has a big game if she has time. I tried to put more pressure on her, take time away. It worked well.   
 In the second set she raised her level and it was a battle. I thought I stayed composed in the end and did well to break her back on 4-All and then hold my serve in the end.   
  
  Q. You look like you're playing with a lot more joy than you have in the past couple years. Why is that?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, I think with all the work I've done, you do gain confidence. Obviously when you win, you have more confidence, you enjoy competing much more. That's something that I gain back.   
 You know, I enjoy competing much more again. It makes a big difference because you don't doubt so much when you step on the court and you can play a lot freer.   
  
  Q. How much did you enjoy yourself out there? First night on Ashe?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yes, it was. I was really excited. I kind of didn't know what to expect. My coach, This is what you work for. Just relax and enjoy.   
 But nerves do play a part a little bit. Also playing against an American girl, you know, crowd favorite.   
 But I really enjoyed it and I had really good time out there. Yeah, it was great experience.  
  
  Q. After the match, Tracy asked on court about playing Serena next. The crowd reacted, Oh. Is that your reaction?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: I think it's exciting, at least for me. I think she's the hottest player out there at the moment. She's been playing so well lately. It is going to be a good challenge.   
 It is tough draw to play her fourth round. I could have had somebody else maybe. But she's favorite, that's for sure, you know. But I am playing good and I enjoy competing again, like I said.   
 You know, I know I can give her a tough match. You know, she beat me in the past, but maybe I can go for revenge on Monday.  
  
  Q. How good do you think Sloane can be?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: I think she can be really good. I think she has a big serve. Maybe with a little more variety on it, she can be even more dangerous. She has a big forehand. She's fit, strong girl. Yeah, I think she has a big potential.   
  
  Q. She didn't serve to your backhand much at all.   
 ANA IVANOVIC: No, I know. Exactly. That's something I could pick. That's what I tried to, you know, use as my advantage. But she does have a big serve.   
 As I said, if she mixes up a little more, then it's harder to guess.  
  
  Q. When you broke her at 4-3 with the forehand down the line, it was almost as if you'd won a Grand Slam.   
 ANA IVANOVIC: I know. I was a little bit excited (laughter).   
 But, like I said, it was emotional. And the crowd really got behind us. It was a lot of excitement, a lot of buildup. I think it was a great rally. We were hitting the ball so well. To finish point on that note and on a shot like that, it was really exciting.   
 But, you know, doesn't matter if it was breakpoint. Even if it was first point of the match, I would probably be as excited.  
  
  Q. What does it mean to you to be back on the big stage doing this?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, that's something you work for. And I'll really excited. Like I've been saying, I can see improvement. I can see the consistency is getting there. Still a lot of work to be done to achieve what I want to achieve and to go where I want to go.   
 But, you know, it's exciting to be back in the mix and to challenge top players. And that's why I think, you know, playing against Serena in the fourth round, it's going to be huge test.  
  
  Q. How did Nigel help you develop or get your game back where it is now?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: He has helped me a lot. I think our relationship, it's really good. I can pick up things fast from his coaching. We have same views, and that's very important, as well, because then you can absorb things better.   
 You know, if there is something I don't like or I don't feel good about, I'll tell him and he will adjust or approach it differently. That's very, very important.   
 We have, you know, big goals, and we look at the big picture. But the results are already there, which is very encouraging.  
  
  Q. What specifically has he worked on?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: We worked a lot on my forehand, you know, just getting rid of some fly forehands that I used to hit in the past and just try to work the ball a little bit more. And obviously, you know, improving my serve.  
  
  Q. The first couple weeks when you were with him, you said you would go on court, he would say, Play natural, don't get too much in your head about what I'm saying. Now is it different where he can say, This is our strategy, this is what I want you to try to do, and you don't get nervous about it?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: Definitely. He can help me a lot more now because we know each other better. He can give me trigger words that make a big difference. When I go to play my matches, he can say, Today work on this, work on that.   
 As you get to know someone, you can sort of develop that kind of relationship. And also when I am competing, I can tell, you know, if I make some mistakes, I know that's probably because I didn't do that. It's good that we have very good communication and it helps.   
  
  Q. Are you a better player than you were in '08 or as good a player?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: I get asked that a lot, and it's very hard to compare because I think I'm different player and person overall. And competition is different. It's very hard to compare, you know.   
 But I definitely do think my forehand is becoming a weapon again, and my serve is getting there. I can serve really big on important moments. Today, you know, in first set, serve kind of helped me to close out the first set. It's getting there to the level to compete against the top.   
  
  Q. Did you watch the first set when Serena went up so fast? Is that intimidating at all to see?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: Actually, I saw first few games and then I went to warm up for my match. But she's been playing great. She's been striking the ball well, moving well. Like I said, it's going to be a good challenge.   
 But, you know, I think, yeah, just trying to play my game and see how it match up. Because I think it's different against each opponent.  
  
  Q. If that happens to you, what do you have to do to stay in the match?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, against these players, you definitely feel you need to step up more. But that's something I think I have to be very careful of, not try to overpower and just try to stick with my game, you know, try my best, try to put more pressure maybe.   
 But, you know, there is no need to overpower basically because that produces more errors.   
  
  Q. Last time you played her, do you remember?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: I think we played in exhibition in Madison Square Garden. We played in Dubai. Maybe that was the last competitive match.   
  
  Q. Do you remember anything about the competitive match between you two?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, she definitely has a big serve and very powerful strokes, and she likes to dominate basically. You know, I've been watching a little bit towards the end of the second set. You know, I have to put a lot of weight on my shots, you know, just try to play like I've been practicing. Things have been working. See how it goes.  
  
  Q. A few weeks ago you said when some other players go out to play Serena, they're already afraid, wrong mentality, lose the match before they get out there. Your feelings going out there? Do you feel excited or is there a little fear?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, she can play well. If opponent does play well, you can't do much about them. You congratulate them and move on. I think that's a big part of the game of Serena and Venus, as well; they do intimidate players. That's something that I expect that's how they approach.   
 I have my ways of approaching match. I know what they have got. So I'm going to try and match that, you know, and do better. But if they play well, all credit to them.   
  
  Q. A lot of things can happen. But with Sloane, do you see top 20, top 10, what kind of potential?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I think definitely she has potential to be top 20. She's young. Yeah, big forehand.   
  
  Q. Ana, do you really feel ready for this match, or do you think it's a little early in the process to be going out Monday during the day and facing a player who has been playing incredible all summer?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: No, I'm actually very, very excited about it. You know, from this moment on, it's preparation for this match. Tomorrow I'm going to practice and talk to Nigel about tactics and stuff.   
 But really I'm very, very excited. Just happy to have the opportunity to be in the second week. You know, it's been a while. I just want to go out there and enjoy and be competitive.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT