WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 15, 2011
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. IVANOVIC/A. Glatch
  6-0, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How important of it for you to get off to such a quick start tonight against Alexa?
 ANA IVANOVIC: It was very important, especially knowing she had couple matches under her belt. I never seen her play before, so it was a new match for me and didn't know what to expect. I had to really focus on my game, and it worked out very well for me. 
 I'm very happy.

 Q. You've had 8 bagels so far this year in first matches of tournaments. Is there something about getting started at a tournament that gets you excited and playing your best?
 ANA IVANOVIC: That's good to know, you know, because most of the times you have nerves when you start the tournament. 
 No, that's really good. I'm not thinking much about the score when I'm out there. I really try to play each game as it comes and try my best to win every one of them.
 That's what matters. 

 Q. Is it important for you to do well here considering last year you did so well, but then you had the left foot injury and had to retire against Kim?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, it was a very tough week, especially that I was playing so well. So, yeah, I would really love to do well again.
 Yeah, it would be nice. I really enjoy being here and competing.

 Q. How long did that left foot injury bother you after that?
 ANA IVANOVIC: I was just talking today to physios, and I said it was very bizarre thing, because I had pains maybe three months after that and I had to tape it.
 All the scans and all the MRIs that I've done showed nothing really, so it was very bizarre. 

 Q. When you go through the US Open Series ramp-up - and obviously apart from Stanford you've been playing really well the last few tournaments - what's more important to you, getting match wins under your belt or just really focusing on the level that you're putting out there and maybe not worrying as much about the win/loss?
 ANA IVANOVIC: It does help if you win, because obviously it boosts your confidence. You want to have your confidence high just before the Grand Slam. It's good to play more matches because that's something I been lacking. 
 Also, it's very important to apply things that I work on in practice. I really been trying to focus on my serve and consistency, and that's something that I'm applying and showing on the court. I'm very happy about it.
 No matter how the tournament progresses, I'm very happy where everything is going. 

 Q. You are actually pretty close now to regaining the spot as the No. 1 Serbian player. Is that something that means anything to you?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Would be nice, but I'm definitely not thinking about that. I didn't even know. In all honesty, I try not to look at the rankings. I know that once I play better, rankings take care of themselves. Yeah. 

 Q. Any books you're reading right now, new books?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Actually I just finished One Day, and now the movie is coming out. But apparently book is always better, so...







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT