MERCURY INSURANCE OPEN
August 6, 2011
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. ZVONAREVA/A. Ivanovic
  5-7, 6-4, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Kind of let it get away from you at the beginning of the third or end of the second, but still close.
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah. I think I had chances in the second set, despite she was playing well. That big game at 4-3 when I went for two second-serve returns and I missed both of them, just pulled off a little bit on both, that was obviously disappointing. 
 Still 4-5 down, I had chances which I didn't use. The volley that I missed. Those few mistake kind of cost me the second set. 
 But, you know, she played well and she got a lot of balls back. 
 In the third set I struggled a little bit physically in the beginning. Sort of went through that little bump, started to feel better a little too late. 

 Q. Physically your legs were going?
 ANA IVANOVIC: I think my arms and legs. Just starting to feel a little fatigue because it was a lot of matches and tennis. Last night also was a tough match and I had to stay very low. 

 Q. Tough, too, because she changes direction a lot, a very physical player. 
 ANA IVANOVIC: She is. And she chases a lot of balls. Sometimes you have to win the point over and over again. She came out with some great shots, especially backhands down the line. It was very hard to pick where she was going. 
 Yeah, it was a physical match. 

 Q. Overall the week was pretty good for you, good wins, close to beating the No. 3 player. You have to be pretty happy?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, there was a lot of positive things. Even in today's match, there was still lots to learn from. But to play that close three-set match with a top 3 player, it's a good place to be. I'm close and I know I had a match. I know I'm not far from that level, which is very encouraging. 

 Q. How do you make yourself maybe not go for too much on those second serves where you could have stayed in the point maybe?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, but if I didn't go for it, still lost the point, then I wouldn't be able to sleep at night. I'll think, Why didn't I just go for it? That's my game. That's how I'm always gonna be, dominate. 

 Q. What parts of your game are you most encouraged about starting the hard court season and what do you feel like you need to work the most on?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, there is lots of things that kind of improved for another level. You know, my forehand is starting to come together nicely. I can rely on it. My backhand is coming through heavy. I felt tonight the backhand kind of kept me in the match. I did a lot of damage with it. 
 My serve wasn't as good tonight as it was last night, but still it's something that can work really well. 

 Q. Does the veteran in you know that you'll take a lot out of a loss like this, maybe more than when you were a teenager?
 ANA IVANOVIC: I think even when I was younger, you know, you try to learn from every loss. Sometimes it's tough. But, you know, also I'm probably going to sit and watch a little bit of the match with my coach to see, you know, a few little things that I did wrong. 
 Losses are never fun, especially close matches when you have chances. But it's part of the game. 

 Q. Did you see your draw next week?
 ANA IVANOVIC: I did. 

 Q. She hasn't played since Wimbledon. 
 ANA IVANOVIC: We played in Eastbourne, too. I did play her a few times. It's going to be tough match. 
 Having lots of matches this week, it's kind of going to help me to feel good coming into that match. Obviously the circumstances, the conditions are going to be different. It's tough. But I think the game is there and I'm enjoying competition and I really think I can give her a tough match, and anything is possible. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT