WIMBLEDON
June 23, 2011
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. IVANOVIC/E. Daniilidou
  6-3, 6-0

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Were you looking at those big black clouds and thinking, I want to get out of here before the rain comes down?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I was, actually, because it started to get really close. I started looking up and I saw them approaching. I saw the forecast this morning and I saw that it's supposed to start at 1:00. I was like, Don't interrupt now. It was lucky in the end and it's still not raining.

 Q. You seem so confident on the grass. What is it about Wimbledon that inspires you to play well?
 ANA IVANOVIC: I think lots of players tend to peak for this event. It's one of the biggest tournaments in the world we have. 
 You know, I'm just very happy to manage to win a few matches. Having good week in Birmingham, then playing well in Eastbourne, it obviously helps and it builds up for Wimbledon. 
 This is where you want to perform your best. So I'm really happy to have, you know, already two wins. 

 Q. When is the last time you've lost four games in your first two matches at a tournament?
 ANA IVANOVIC: It's been a while. And I must say it's really nice because I did put lot of work. You know, to see that work giving results finally, you know, I feel like, you know what, I know what I'm doing and I know why I'm playing well. That's very important thing to realize.

 Q. So why are you playing well?
 ANA IVANOVIC: I'm working on few things, you know, and starting to get a little more structure in my training and preparation and everything. 
 Yeah, having new things in mind when I play on my serve. You know, on the groundstrokes, you know, that's something that I know it's working. And just not having doubts when I play. I know this is the way I have to go about it and I stick with it even if I make some mistakes. 
 That wasn't the case in the past. So I'm really happy to have, you know, come to that point that, you know, just be persistent and consistent. 

 Q. This is the first time we've seen you with this black square-shaped racquet. Can you tell us about it and why you've chosen that?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, it's a new racquet that I got. It's last year in Cincinnati. So in August. It's new technology from Yonex. I really enjoy it. 
 It's very soft frame, but, yeah, it gives you a lot of control. I think it's quite heavy, so for my game I like it. You know, I feel like I can swing through the ball freer.

 Q. And unusual shape, obviously?
 ANA IVANOVIC: I think it's normal, normal shape. A little bit bigger maybe head. 

 Q. Who's created the structure you're talking about? Is that you? You're sort of in between coaches again. Is it you, the hitting partner, or... 
 ANA IVANOVIC: No, it's me definitely. I'm really trying. That's one thing that I'm really trying to take more charge in the decision-making, you know. You have lots of people giving advices all the time. It just gets confusing. 
 And I'm the one, you know, who knows how it felt to become No. 1, to win Grand Slam. So I really try to look back to that time and reflect what I was doing then, comparing to what I was doing now. 
 And I saw some differences. So I really tried to step up and, you know, work hard and push myself and surround myself with good people. 

 Q. Didn't you say recently, though, that you were happy not to have a full-time coach? I read a couple weeks ago that now you're looking for a full-time coach again, or was that wrong?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Another thing is that it worked really well. I spoke to Darren a lot. I'm like, Darren, can you spend more time with me? 
 But it's hard. Things change constantly. You know, Darren is helping Andy and he's commentating. The original plan that we had, it's that he was going to spend a little more time with me. But it change obviously since Andy came onboard and then also since his commitments towards ESPN. 
 When I was in America, we did spend a lot of time on court and it gave results. But, as I said, it change a little. It made me think. I spoke a lot to Darren about things to do, how to go about certain thing. 
 You know, he said, Yeah, you know, he understands the situation, that it's very, very hard for him to commit, to come out and watch also matches during the Grand Slams. 

 Q. You said your racquet gave you a softer feel. Could you talk a little bit more about that. Is that control? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: For my game, you know, I have quite powerful game. You want to have control because you want to feel like you can swing free. This is something that this racquet really gave me. 
 Since I picked it up, straightaway I made semis in first tournament I played with it. It definitely gives me that control and that, yeah, flexibility that I need. 

 Q. And in the past you've had some interesting comments on what you've been reading. What have you been reading recently?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Actually, I just read the book The Island by Victoria Hislop. It was really good book. I read it within five days. I promise. 
 Now I'm starting a new one. Murakami. I got recommended. We'll see. 

 Q. What do you think of your next match against Petkovic?
 ANA IVANOVIC: It's always fun. We have a great time playing doubles together. It's going to be interesting one again. It's really relaxing playing with her.

 Q. Which Murakami book are you reading?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Norwegian Wood.

 Q. Have you thought about working with Sven again, or is he spending too much time with Caroline?
 ANA IVANOVIC: He's engaged as well. He has lots of adidas players. I saw him with Laura Robson, too, past few days. It's hard. They do have a lot of players. I think lot of players are starting to use the program again. 
 So I'm definitely going to have a talk with them as well and see how to approach things. But also now, you know, I feel like I'm playing good, and I want to keep this rhythm. It's not something I want to stress myself during the Grand Slam. 
 But for sure, you know, as soon as this is over, I'll give more thought to it. 

 Q. Is it kind of nice being your own boss?
 ANA IVANOVIC: It is nice. But you do need someone who's gonna help you and guide you, make sure you stay on right path. But yet it has to be your decision. 
 So, you know, in the past sometimes I made decisions that were not fully, you know, my decisions, so then I regret doing them. But, you know, if you make mistake and you are the one who took charge, at least you learn from it and you're wiser from it. If it wasn't yours, you cannot really, you know, learn from it as well, so... 

 Q. Have you gotten your strength, fitness, muscle, back to where you want it now?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah. It's still work in process, but it's big, big difference since French Open. And I feel it, you know. Each week it's been better and improving. I really did a lot of work on it since French Open, spent lot of time in the gym. You know, wasn't having much time off. 
 But that's at the end of the day what gives you confidence. And I can see it gives results on the court. So it just makes you want to do more and more. It's then finding balance when it's enough and when you have to switch and do recovery instead.

 Q. So what are you bench pressing?
 ANA IVANOVIC: I haven't gone that far yet. I'm still with rubber bands (laughter). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT