AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 14, 2011
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. IVANOVIC/J. Goerges
  6-4, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You had to fight pretty hard for that, didn't you?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, it was tough match. I think we were both a little bit nervous. It was a strange match, a lot of mishits and a lot of breaks, as well, which is unusual for grass.  
 But I felt like very important points I played really well and was aggressive. So I'm very happy to have win. She's been playing pretty good lately.  
  
  Q. How did you feel about your serve? You got less than half of your first serves in, but you only lost six points on your first serve.   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, you know, like I was saying before: It's a process. I have to work on it, and I have to accept it the way it is at the moment. You know, I have few things in mind that I try to keep and try to do it when I'm on the court.  
 But my serve can definitely be and is a strength. When I get the right timing on it, I mean, it goes really fast, too.  
 It's something I want to keep on working. You know, hopefully soon it will be a big weapon.  
  
  Q. I think it's fair to say that most of us don't really know what to expect each time you go out to play a match right now. You've had some up-and-down results this year. What are your expectations when you go out there?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: Um, you know, at the moment I really try to think of the things that I try to achieve in my game. You know, it's sort of more technical things. It's a process.   
 You know, I don't expect myself to go out there and, you know, play great every match. I just expect myself to work hard. There are things I work hard on in practice and try to maintain that level and then hopefully get more consistency and then, you know, build on that.  
 But, you know, it's hard. But I do have to think about, you know, going back to basics for a moment, you know, and trying to get the practice in, trying to stay healthy and trying to stay basically on top of small things.   
 It's working well and I accept it's a process, so it makes it a lot easier. I don't put high expectations on myself, but still I know that when it takes I can play well.   
  
  Q. Are you happier with the progress you've made in the past year in tennis on the different surfaces?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: It's been good times, and it's been not too good times in the past year, as well. You know, I did play really well at the end of last season, and then, you know, some bits and pieces this year. But now, last few weeks I feel also I'm starting to gain more confidence again, you know, winning few matches.  
 But now I see more clearly how I have to, you know, go about it and, you know, things that I have to work on and work on while playing matches, as well, the attitude you have to have. You know, it's been good last couple of weeks for me in that sense.  
  
  Q. What is going on coaching-wise at the moment? You're still using the adidas team, are you?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yes. And Darren, he's in London, so I'm going to see him there hopefully end of the week.  
  
  Q. What about down here?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: I have my sparring partner here.  
  
  Q. Are you anywhere closer to getting anyone permanently?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: You know, not yet. And this is tough time, because the Grand Slam is just around the corner. You just want to focus on few things, you know, that I have been working on, and now I'm playing a lot more matches, so, you know, that's my preoccupation.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT