SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 29, 2011
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. CLIJSTERS/A. Ivanovic
  7-6, 3-6, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How tough is that one to accept?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Um, it is very hard, yeah. You should see my racquet. (Smiling.)
But, you know, I really felt like I haven't done much wrong, you know. I had my opportunities, and she played some really good tennis.
 You know, a few occasions got a little bit lucky, as well. You know, I really fought hard, and I felt I stayed throughout the whole match. I stayed with her and I created the opportunities for myself. You know, just very disappointed to lose like that.

 Q. You okay with the way you played the match points?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, you know, I just felt like I couldn't do much different. You know, she really served well and played well on those. On my service games I didn't get any match points, and I do feel like I created chances. 
 But, you know, many times in 30-All or important points, she played really well and, you know, got lucky with a few lines. You know, just really, really tough. 
 And also, I felt on my service game in the third set kind of my legs kind of, you know, left me a little bit. Tried to generate more power with my arm, and then started to force it a little more. So I couldn't generate as much power because I couldn't jump anymore. 
 But, you know, still, it was a lot of positives to take from that match.

 Q. Five match points over the No. 2 player in the world give you something to look forward to?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, definitely does. I think no matter what ranking says, I think she's the hottest player at the moment. You know, it was gonna be a good test for me, and I managed to stay out there with her physically and also to create opportunities and to create lots of match points for myself.
 That's a very positive thing for me to take from here, because, you know, coming into Indian Wells and Miami, honestly I wasn't feeling great physically. So to come all that way and challenge myself against, you know, best player, it's a good thing.

 Q. Why do you withdraw in doubles?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I'm just like exhausted. Like I said, you know, it's been a lot. Andrea also had a tough match today, and we were both very, very tired. 
 You know, there is no point of pushing. You know, it's better to give the body best chance to recover, and also for her for singles. For me at the moment, you know, I felt like I really pushed today, and, you know, it's time to now take a break and get stronger.

 Q. This was like the Serbian Open today. 
 ANA IVANOVIC: I know, we were joking today in the locker room when we were waiting. They were like, What's going on? It's Serbian, each, each, each. I'm like, Yeah, it's nice to see so many Serbians.

 Q. Talk about Ms. Petkovic. A lot of us don't know her very well. Obviously she did well in Australia. I know she is 23. Can she beat anyone out there?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, you gonna get to know her. She's great girl, and she's playing really well. I think she can challenge anyone out there.
 Yeah, it's so nice, you know, to find someone like that to play doubles with, because it makes it more fun. She's very, very smart girl and very well educated.
 Yeah, like I said, you're gonna see plenty of her. She's also fun to be around. 

 Q. And she's really a Serb, of course. 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Sorry?

 Q. And she's really a Serb. 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, exactly. I told her she should play for us. Yeah, she was close, but... 

 Q. What did you do last night waiting all this time?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Um, well, I kind of warmed up once. I had dinner upstairs and was watching and taking pictures of the rain. Yeah, but nothing very intellectual.
 Oh, actually I did play some games on iPhone with my coach.

 Q. Were you crying after the match or you just broke your racquet?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, I kind of broke my racquet and then kind of cried a little bit. (Smiling.)
And then I was okay. 

 Q. You said you weren't feeling well coming into Indian Wells. Was there something physically wrong or just fatigue?
 ANA IVANOVIC: You know, the way the year started in Australia, I got injured in my abdominal and it was kind of dragging on a little so I couldn't practice. So physically I really wasn't 100% there. Just tried to work hard. 
 I spent a week in Vegas working with Darren and trying to get some things happening. I think I made a lot of progress, and playing a lot of matches obviously helped that.

 Q. Do you have a coach now?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, Darren is helping me. Yeah, I have a sparring partner full time, and then Darren. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT