CHINA OPEN
October 8, 2015
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. A tough one out there and the conditions were much different today than they have been all week. Talk us through the match a little bit. 
ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, it was very tough match. I think we start sort of played better as the match progressed. I found it very difficult on my serve because the balls are very heavy, it was a lot colder today. I felt like I couldn't generate pace. Also the groundstrokes, I was falling short. She was the same. You could see that. 
I was very happy to sort of step up a little bit in the third set. First few games of the third set I struggled a little bit physically as well. I played a great game at 2‑1 to break her. I jammed a little bit my back so I had to have some MOBs (phonetic) a little bit. It's been already in the second set. Yeah, but I was really happy to stay on top. Even when she had breakpoints to come back. 

Q. Lower back?
ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah. I did this all since Tokyo, been sort of ongoing thing. I felt it through the match. As I served in that game on 3‑1, as I landed, I really felt like a little more pull. Then I tried to, like, finish the game. But next point I couldn't really push off. So I was like, Okay, it's better to have the treatment straight.

Q. In the first set you were down a break and you were able to rally back. Against a player like Kuznetsova, is there a different mindset when you know somebody's game?
ANA IVANOVIC: Yes, I think it is definitely different when you approach the match. In some ways we do have similar games. We love to use our forehands, dominate with the forehand. Also she uses the kick serves, and wide to especially the ad. 
I felt like today we sort of were a little bit different playing, we were catching each other a lot on the back foot which I don't think was so much the case in the past, but also could be the conditions. 

Q. Pavlyuchenkova in the next round. Talk about that matchup. 
ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, it's another tough match. She's a big hitter. Obviously it's going to be very physical match, as well. I think she's very dangerous. I think she has potential to be in the top. She's very young still. We played actually quite a few times, last year in Wuhan, a very close match. 
For me the most important now is recovery. But, yeah, it's going to be challenge, but I'm excited about it. It's going to be quick turnover.

Q. The recovery between now and then, what do you do differently when you are carrying something?
ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I'm not 20 anymore (laughter). 
But, well, ice bath definitely, some MOBs. That's definitely priority. It will be another two hours before I'm done with everything. Also having a good night of sleep will be a challenge when you finish that late, at least for me. So, yeah, that's going to be priority. 

Q. Andrew, he is here. He came down a couple of times to talk to you. What were some of the tips he was giving you?
ANA IVANOVIC: Obviously he was sort of assessing the game a little bit and telling me I should stick with my game plan. Sometimes I was getting away from it. 
Also I was telling him that I have issues, I can't generate pace on my serve. He was telling me to try to take a little off and try to make more first serves. 
We've been working together now for more than a month. It's been going really well. I'm very happy with this sort of setup I have with him. 

Q. Maybe at China Open there will be an opportunity to qualify for Singapore. 
ANA IVANOVIC: Last week I played well. I won two matches. Someone asked me that question, and I lost. Please don't jinx it (laughter). 
Honestly, it's so far off my mind. I had really tough year with some results. I was really hoping to do well in the American swing over the summer which would put me in a much better position. 
Now I'm just enjoying my tennis and competition, trying to be healthy. It is tough matches. It is tough tournament. Like we see, everything is possible. Obviously I'm going to try my best not only for Singapore but also to win the title, because that's also very special. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT