DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 15, 2011
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. SCHNYDER/A. Ivanovic
  4-6, 7-6, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Ana.   
  
  Q. How disappointing is that?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, it is very disappointing. I think I had lots of chances in the second set, and then the level just really dropped and a little bit struggled out there.  
 But, yeah, I mean in the second set I created a lot of opportunities, and there were a lot of positive things in my game that I worked on in last, you know, really actually few days. It was good to put that into my match today.  
 But just, yeah, I missed some opportunities in the second set, so, yeah, quite disappointed.   
  
  Q. You seemed to struggle with your serve at various stages, specifically the ball toss. That must have been frustrating. Was it the wind or were you not...  
 ANA IVANOVIC: No, actually, I felt my serve pretty good. You know, there were a few that got away from me, but it wasn't really the main issue.  
 I just felt like in the third set in particular I could not accelerate anymore, you know. Kind of strength issues a little bit.   
 Yeah, that, I felt, was more of a problem than really my serve. Actually, I think my serve was something that was holding me in that third set.  
 My game was kind of missing few bits and pieces.   
  
  Q. I understand that you've come into this week without a full-time coach. You've just had like a sparring partner and a conditioning coach. Is that something you will look to revisit, or are you happy?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: No, I'm just really happy like this. It's going well. Yeah, it's been a quite a journey down that path with the coaches. At the moment, I'm just happy with the situation.   
 Yeah, I have a really good sparring partner and good team with me, fitness coach. Just going to stick with it.  
  
  Q. So you're not going to hire a replacement?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: No, not for the moment. You know, I had interviewed a lot of coaches and I looked around a lot. Yeah, it's a little bit unfortunate, you know, the good ones really don't want to travel much or they're already committed.   
 It's no point of forcing something with someone you just don't feel it's going to work. You try to work it out, but at the end, it comes back, you know, not really good. So it's better to just stick like this.  
  
  Q. Does that give you freedom where you've made your own decisions and it's down to you? Not conversing with a coach, does it make it a more mature situation?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: In a way it is really good. I feel a lot of coaches try to control and they try to take charge.   
 But then again, sometimes you need someone who's going to say, No, you should practice a little more, or, This is fine. Someone who can actually judge how much is enough and can set up the practices.  
 But then on the other hand, I already have so much experience. I don't need someone who's going to tell me what to do, because I know what I want to achieve and I know I have to work hard for it. Hard work is part of it, and I understand this. So I don't need someone to push me in that way.   
 I just need someone to understand me as person and understand what I need, and someone who's going to be, you know, a little bit relaxed, because I'm such intense person. I'm such a perfectionist and I overanalyze everything, so I need someone who's just going to make sure I chill out a little. (Smiling.)   
  
  Q. On the flip side of the coin, is it not a disadvantage that other players are allowed to bring their coaches on during the game and sort of discuss, have a discourse about how the match is going, whereas you obviously are on your own, you only have your own thoughts?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I have my sparring partner who can come on the court.  
  
  Q. Oh, right.   
 ANA IVANOVIC: But, you know, the thing is, first of all, in the bigger tournaments we are on our own. That's what we used to do for a long, long time. The on-court coaching only came about a few years ago.  
 But then at the other hand, most of the times when players do request for the coach, it's because they are anxious and a little bit nervous and they stop seeing things. That's when you call coach. You can chat and kind of relax a little bit and calm down.  
 So, you know, to have sparring partner to do the same thing, it's fine.   
  
  Q. You obviously said you want to get back where you were in the women's game, top 10, potentially No. 1. Caroline Wozniacki earlier this week said that you could. I mean, that must give you sort of impetus going forward just to hear that. Do you put too much pressure on yourself in certain situations? Does it get to you in a situation like tonight, for example?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: Um, I mean, it does a little bit. But then, again, you know, I really strongly believe, you know, I can, you know, achieve that. And, you know, lots of people ask when it's going to happen or this or that.   
 It's hard to say, you know. I really try to work hard, and I would like for it to happen obviously as soon as possible. But it's not always the way it goes.   
 Yeah, you know, I really have to believe in myself and I have to make those changes. I have to kind of, you know, go through it again and reach what I want to reach. People are going to say they're going to support or not support you.   
 In the end of the day, you're alone out there and you have to fight your own way. You can't really rely on what people are saying. You have to believe in yourself because you're on your own.  
  
  Q. So when you look at you were kind of coming back at the end the last year, and then at eh Australian Open you crashed out early and you had this disappointment. I mean, it's been kind of a difficult start to the year. How would you rate yourself at this point?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I was really sorry the season ended when it did last year. I was in such a good shape.  
 But, you know, it is tough beginning of the year for me, but I also have to look realistically. I did have a physical problem before Australian Open with my stomach injury, and I couldn't practice for two weeks.  
  
  Q. Oh, okay.   
 ANA IVANOVIC: So it is going to set you back a little. I'm still trying to get in shape from that and trying to work physically and also on court during the tournaments. Then you have to kind of also be fresh for your matches.   
 So it is hard time to build up your game during the tournaments. And I need matches, so I need to play a lot of events. So it is kind of Catch 22.   
 But I just to have to, like I said, I have to realize this and work hard through these tournaments. These kind of losses are tough, but you have to learn from them and kind of, you know, move on.   
 And I accepted at these few tournaments I might not be at the top of my shape, but I'm going to work hard through it and kind of build up my strength and my game throughout the tournaments.  
  
  Q. So your stomach injury has healed, but it's more or less building up your fitness?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, it is. Because, I mean, you do lose a lot. After my match in Melbourne, I still couldn't practice for a few days. I had to take time off because it wasn't healed enough. So, yeah, it is always going to hard.   
 Like I said, you have to take off a little bit before the matches. So it's tough with the tournaments around, but then yet I need matches, you know. I think I do play well enough to get through the tournaments, so, yeah.   
  
  Q. Obviously since picking up the injury at the Hopman Cup your childhood friend Nole has won the Australian Open. Serbia are Davis Cup champions. Would you like to be a part of that sort of Serbian sport bubble at some stage? The country must be on a high tennis-wise at the moment.   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, definitely. It's been great last few months for Serbian tennis. But it's been the case for last few years. Tennis, it is really popular, maybe one of the most popular sports at the moment. So it's really nice to see.   
 It was great to see Novak win Australian Open, you know. He worked so hard for it. I think he has such a good game and he can dominate men's tennis. You know, it's great to see him in, and I hope I can do the same thing.   
  
  Q. Going back to that, he obviously has worked hard to get where he is. You're prepared to do the same. Is that sort of methodology, you're going to work, work really hard, harder than the rest?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I mean, definitely. I think as a professional athlete you have to understand it's going to be a lot of hard work.   
 In Perth I had chance to spend some more time with him, and I could see also his team. I saw how much fun they have and how relaxed they are. That's always something that's going to help you perform better because you're in positive environment.   
 That's something I've been lacking little bit. Girls are a little bit different than guys. (Smiling.) We are so much more stressed about everything. It was such a nice thing to see.   
 I was thinking, Why can't I do that within my team? Why I have to be like other girls? I can change that and change the image of us girls. Just try to enjoy it a little more and not be so stressed about strict practice time and so on.  
 You have practice time and work hard, but then you going to go on and have a laugh or a joke and it's fine. Nothing is gonna happen.  
  
  Q. One last question about the match. In the second set tiebreak, when you had the dispute with the umpire, I didn't quite understand what you were complaining about.   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Because I thought I said I want to challenge before she hit the ball, and he said I did, but he still thought it was too late. And I said, But as soon as I hit and I saw the mark I wanted to challenge. He said it was too late.  
 And I just thought that the rules were as long as she doesn't hit the ball, I have right to challenge.   
  
  Q. A lot of players challenge after they've carried on playing the rally, don't they?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, that's why I thought I had right to challenge, because she still hasn't hit the ball. And he agreed with that, but he still thought I couldn't.  
  
  Q. Do you think they need to perhaps change the rules then?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: I think it's very hard to say because it is very touchy. You know, it's milliseconds. It's really up to chair umpire to decide that.  
 I think it's very tough decision because you can't, you know, really see both sides at the same time.   
 So, yeah, it's hard one, I think.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT