CHINA OPEN
October 5, 2010
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. IVANOVIC/O. Govortsova
  6-0, 7-5 
  
 THE INTERPRETER: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. It was 1-4 in the second set. How did you do something differently to come back and win the match?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, when I was 4-1 down I realized I start sort of pulling back a little bit and I wasn't as dominant as I was in the first. She started playing a lot better, so I just had to sort of stay a little bit more patient and try to be aggressive and sort of put more pressure on her and just also stay calm and not, you know, not panic and try to go for winners too soon. So I'm really happy I managed to do that and win in two.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) It said you sent a phone message to Bora. You send a message to Bora telling that you have won the match. On the list for those phone messages, what is the position of Bora?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: I met him a long time ago in Doha, actually, when he was working there. It was I think six years ago. It just seems like yesterday. And then here I saw he was here. He just came to player lunch, so I was really happy to see him again and he said he's gonna come and watch me play. I was really happy to see him out there today and yesterday.  
  
  Q. Your next match is against Dementieva. You played in Rome in May. You won. What do you expect now? Completely different situation.   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, definitely it's different surface, and she's tough opponent. I think in Rome is the only time I actually beat her. I'm gonna try and learn from that match.   
 Against her I just have to be patient, because she likes to get in long rallies and she likes tough points. I just have to, you know, be patient and look for the opportunity to step in and be aggressive rather than rush a little bit too early.  
 So, yeah, I think first few shots are gonna be important, so, you know, stepping in on her service game and then also try to serve well like I did in my first match. But, you know, I have a day off so I'm gonna still talk to my coach and try to come with a tactic.   
  
  Q. How did you describe yourself, image of yourself as the sports figure in the world?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: It's very hard. You better ask someone else. But, no, I mean, every time I'm on the court, I try to give a good example for young kids, because I know I started playing tennis because of Monica Seles.   
 If I can inspire a kid to start playing tennis or an adult, you know, for that matter, any sport, it would be really, you know, I would be really pleased with that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT