CHINA OPEN
October 4, 2010
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. IVANOVIC/M. Bartoli
  6-2, 6-3

 THE INTERPRETER: Questions, please. 

 Q. How do you assess today's games?
 ANA IVANOVIC: It was a very good match. I played really well, and because we just played last week in Tokyo, so it was very fresh in my memory. So I tried to do a lot of things differently today, and it worked.
 You know, I could make some adjustments and play really well and defeat her, because she's tough opponent and I lost last couple of times, so it was really nice to have a win today.

 Q. Actually, it's very famous here in China and you have a lot of fans here, as well. For the last two years, you have been struggling a bit to manage your ranking, so what do you think about current situation?
 ANA IVANOVIC: I'm really happy to be back here, and I can see a lot of supporters and that's very nice. I was just saying before this is my third time at this stadium and only first match I ever played, so I'm really thrilled, you know, to have victory. 
 I really felt big support today, which was very nice. I hope I can stick around for some time, because last few times I was here it was kind of short visit.
 So I feel really good this time around, so I hope I can stay a bit longer. 

 Q. (Through translation.) Last week you played Bartoli but lost in straight sets, and today the same opponent, you won in straight sets. What makes such a big difference?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Like I said before, I just played her, so it was kind of fresh in my mind. Last week I did a lot of things kind of wrong, so I tried to make some adjustments this time around. 
 And also, the surface, it's a lot different. I felt I could use more my kick and get her out of her range, so I felt this was working today for me, and she's very tough opponent.
 I kind of approached the match a little bit differently, as well, so I think that helped. 

 Q. (Through translation.) Your boyfriend, according to the journalist, is Scott the golfer. Do you go to see each other's match, and how do you support each other? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: That's kind of a private question. (Laughter.) Yeah, well, we're not together anymore. 

 Q. (Through translation.) Talk about the ranking of WTA. The No. 1 position at the present time, Wozniacki from Denmark, has a very good chance to reach the top this week in Beijing, and most of the people know she hasn't had a chance to win the Grand Slam. What do you think about this?
 ANA IVANOVIC: It's tough. I think at the moment there is lots of good players out there, and like we saw not only this week but every other week there is lot of players who can beat, you know, top seeds and top players. 
 I think even rankings are wide open. You know, everyone deserves the position they are in, and, you know, just have to try and work hard to, you know, to win Slam. But everyone has different goal, you know. She's young player and she has a bright future in front of her. And achieving, you know, being No. 1 ranked, it's a huge step, I think. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT