U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2010
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. IVANOVIC/E. Makarova
  6-3, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How confident are you that this recovery of your game is a permanent thing?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I'm really confident about that, and I feel good out there. I think most important is that I have fun again, and it's good to be, you know, competing. I really managed to get some pressure off myself, and that's a huge step for me.   
 I feel a lot freer out there. I did address a lot of things in my game, in my fitness. Everything is sort of marrying. The game is starting to resurface again, and I'm very happy to see that.   
  
  Q. You kept saying some of the same things over the last year or so. Did you ever doubt it yourself, thinking maybe it's not going to come back?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: I did many times. You know, it's been hard, hard moments. But, you know, I think that's where, you know, some trust in yourself and some good team around you help you get through these moments. You know, they believed in me in moments that I didn't believe in myself.   
 You know, I really had a good, good people around me, and sponsors as well. It's great to see that, you know, they stick around and they help me through the tough times.   
 I feel, you know, no matter what happens here, I really feel I'm in a good roll and I'm on the way back. I know that good things are about to happen.   
 So just a little more patience and a little more hard work and it's there.   
  
  Q. Seems like you have switched your racquet to a new model. I don't know if that gives you a reason you play good or not. Does it suit your play style?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I did. Actually funny thing is did change just before Cincinnati, and I really like the new racquet and the new model Yonex put out.   
 It's really helped my game a lot, especially in the end range. But I think it's combined with all the hard work. And just, you know, like I said, it's been hard, because in Stanford and San Diego I really felt like I was playing good and I was moving well on the court.   
 But it was just little bits and pieces missing in the most important moments. It's been very frustrating. But then a few matches, a few victories in Cincinnati did help my confidence. Maybe that's something I needed, you know, to be more relaxed and for things to come together.   
 But one way or another, I'm just happy it's happening.  
  
  Q. How is your ankle? Does it feel completely okay?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: It's better. Yesterday was the first day I managed to practice sort of almost without the pain. Still I do take painkillers. Despite that, I did have pain. Yesterday and today was the first day I managed to practice and play without the pain, so I'm really happy it all came together.   
 It was frustrating to be off of the court for like 10 days. But, you know, hey, I'm here competing and have a victory. So that's, you know, more than I can ask for.  
  
  Q. When you're not confident, are you having specific thoughts like, I can't hit this shot?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Not necessarily, I can't hit this shot. But in the more important moments you do have those thoughts. You know, in certain important moments I think every player does have their own patterns. And if the rally is long, you do have trust that you can keep the long rallies with the opponents. That's what I was lacking.   
 You know, I did not trust in myself as much. You know, it does affect. The game is so fast these days that if you have a little doubt, it's going to catch up on you.   
  
  Q. Next round, your opponent you played twice before. How do you assess your next opponent?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: It's going to be a tough opponent. I did have tough matches against her in Beijing and in Wimbledon. It's going to be a little bit different than today. She's playing a lot faster than Makarova probably.   
 But, you know, I'm just happy the way I'm at at the moment. I'm just going to approach it as another, you know, fun match. I really have nothing to lose, and just want to have fun. And if I play like I played last few weeks, I know I can win this match. It's going to be tough, but I can do it.   
 She's tough opponent. You know, it's going to be hard till the last point.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT