CHINA OPEN
October 6, 2015
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. It's been a long time since I've seen you hit your forehand that well throughout a match. Talk about how important that shot was in turning the match around for you, and overall what your thoughts are. 
ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I was very pleased overall not only with the forehand but just with my game. I worked really, really hard. Since like after Wimbledon, when I put the team in place, there was still some little changes, but I felt like we've been working really hard. 
I knew it was coming, but it was just a matter of time putting it all together. Last few days I been doing it really well on practice courts. I was happy to transfer it onto today's match, and it was important match for me and a good one to win. 

Q. Talking about your team, you're working with Nigel Sears. He wasn't with you in Wuhan. I haven't seen him here. 
ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, well, unfortunately he had to do commentating, so he's back home. He's doing the night shift commentating. 
But, yeah, he's going to be with me in Luxembourg, then next year we're going to do full‑time. 

Q. You have worked with him in the past. Why did you come back with him and what do you want to achieve with him this time?
ANA IVANOVIC: Well, we had really good working relationship. We always kept in touch for the years we didn't work together. Yeah, you know, we always said that we had unfinished business. 
I really hope he can help me because now I'm at a different stage of my career, as well, and different time. In two, three years we didn't work together, lots of things have happened. I really believe that he can help me achieve what I want to achieve. 

Q. I think at Wimbledon or the US Open you were talking about the need to have this block of training, that was something you felt had been lacking. It sounds like you got a little bit of that after maybe the US Open. 
ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I did work very, very hard. Actually I hired a new fitness coach as well that I'm going to be working with in the off‑season, obviously next year. I've been implementing some of the stuff the last few weeks. I can see the benefits from that. 
I'm real excited about the off‑season, having good rest and then preparation, because that's something I've been lacking all year. 
We spoke throughout the year. Even on the clay court season, I really felt unfit. That's now changed and obviously it impacts my game.

Q. Do you have the name of the physio for us?
ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, it's Howard Green. We're going to be working together in England.

Q. (No microphone.)
ANA IVANOVIC: Nigel Sears. I also have my sparring partner here, Andrew, and my physio. But Nigel is back home. He had commitments with commentating so he will be in Luxembourg with me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT