WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP WOMEN'S OPEN
August 12, 2010
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. IVANOVIC/E. Vesnina
  6-0, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Congratulations on your win today. Must feel good winning three matches in a row at a big tournament like this.
 ANA IVANOVIC: It definitely does. Like I said, in the first match I felt like the momentum sort of changed, and been playing really good since. 
 Yeah, today was another good match. She's tough opponent, but I really tried to stay focuses and tried not think of result, and played a really good match, which I'm really pleased. 
 At the end of the day, I'm happy I played first on, because yesterday was very long day.

 Q. The scoreline is like one of the scorelines you had when you were rising to No. 1 in the world back in 2008. Do you think you're playing as well as you were then?
 ANA IVANOVIC: In some ways probably better, I think, because I'm being more aggressive than I was back then. I think it's still a process, like I was talking. But I think I'm much more experienced than I was then.
 And, you know, when you're young and upcoming and you win lots of the matches, you definitely take things for granted. That's what I definitely don't do that anymore. But in some way I feel like I'm different player and more mature one. I think in the long run, it's even better.

 Q. How would you say you're a different player in terms of your tactics from like three months ago? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: I think it has a lot to the with my physical state. I think I'm much better physically at the moment, and I feel stronger on the court. So that puts me in better position to hit the ball, which then I can generate more power and hurt opponents more. So it's kind of a circle. It's all kind of connected. 
 That's what I been always saying in past few months. It was always this balance, my tennis, fitness, it was always, you know, playing catch up in some ways. But now I feel it's sort of all marrying together, and it's starting to work and click really well. 

 Q. Did you think if you do get back up to the top where you were before that you're in a better position now to stay there for a longer run?
 ANA IVANOVIC: I really believe so. You know, I think in true career everyone goes through tough moments, and those moments make you stronger. You can learn from it and then you can -- even if it start happening, you can catch yourself much earlier and make some changes and adjustments. 
 So I do think overall I will manage to handle it better.

 Q. You were talking about your coach yesterday and how she's helped with you your fitness. Has she done anything other than just the fitness, though? Has anything else helped you?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I mean, just having fun, you know. She's a girl, so we can go shopping together, watch movies, do our nails. (Laughing.) It just keeps your mind off tennis. 
 Because, you know, in the past, you're with male coaches, and you do a job and go back to the room. I really like to read. It was sort of relaxing. But then after all, you spent all day in a room, and it gets kind of depressing. 
 So it's good to go out and just do a fun girly stuff.

 Q. Have you been able to do any of that stuff here this week?
 ANA IVANOVIC: We've been already to cinema twice and to shopping mall for frozen yogurt. All kinds of things trying to enjoy any time off we have. 

 Q. What movies did you see?
 ANA IVANOVIC: I saw salt and The Other Guys.

 Q. Did you like them?
 ANA IVANOVIC: It was fun, yeah. We had this huge bowl of popcorn.

 Q. You're score today I thought obviously was especially one-sided. Do you think you played better? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: I do think I was really aggressive and didn't give her much chances. I was trying to be aggressive on her serve as well and just basically try to stay in the moment. 
 Because if you're 3-Love up or 4-Love up, it's easy to let a few games slip, and then you find yourself in a difficult position. I've done that in the past a lot, so now I'm really is conscious of that. 
 So now I just try to work for each game like it's a new game, a beginning of a match, and I find it works well for me because I can really stay in the moment. 

 Q. One of the nice things about watching you play when you're winning is that you show a lot of positive emotion on the court. You do a lot of fist pumps and there were some kicks and stuff in there, too. Do you plan out what you're gonna do and the moves? Any names for the different moves you do?
 ANA IVANOVIC: (Smiling.) No, not at all. It really comes naturally, I guess. But I do, and I've been laughing with my coaches, because in the first match I even did some double fist pumps. I just get overexcited sometimes. 
 And also, in my interviews after the match, my coach says, I cannot understand a word of what you're saying. You are talking way too fast. Please slow down a little bit. But it's just lots of emotions, and I am very emotional, so I do try to take it on the court, too.

 Q. You were wearing tape under your right wristband. Is that just a precautionary thing? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yes, it's been bothering me a little bit in San Diego and through the practice days here. So just making sure it stays stable, and that's it.

 Q. In the next round you play the winner of Akgul Amanmuradova and Jelena Jankovic. Can you talk about your history with Jelena and where your sort of relationship with her is now? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I played against both players before, and obviously against Jelena many more times. But I think it's gonna be a tough match no matter who I play against. 
 Jelena is in a good form and she's been playing really well. She's currently I think second in the world, so it's gonna be tough match. We played recently in Madrid. I had lots of chances. So I know I can win if I play like I played so far.
 But after all, it's important just to enjoy and try to do the same things I been doing in last few matches. I do really enjoy competing, so that's the most important thing for me at the movement. 
 But otherwise we have good relationship. We always have fun in Fed Cup. It's great also that week to spend as team. Everyone is so occupied with their own teams and schedules, so it's very hard to catch up otherwise. 

 Q. Did the Montreal situation, do you think, provide additional motivation for you here?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, I was trying to be motivated anyway. You know, it does not really matter. In a way it helped a little bit; but then again, I think, you know, people can give you little tips and so on, but you find the motivation and self-confidence, it all comes from within. No one can really help you get it unless you discover it yourself.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT