AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2010
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 G. DUKLO/A. Ivanovic
  6-7, 7-5, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Is it your serve that's the problem with your game?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: It was one of the problems, yeah, for sure. I mean, I was really disappointed to fight back in the third set and then make a couple of double-faults and basically hand her three match points, then having to fight back.   
 That was definitely an area that let me down.   
  
  Q. Seems like it's been the same story: you fight, try to improve, and you get in these matches and you're falling a little bit short.   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I mean, it's a process. You know, it's hard. It hurts, I must say. For sure it will. But it's a process.   
 I think I just have to be patient. It will take some time. I do feel better on the court. I'm playing much better. I feel like my old self. There are still some areas that are not there for me to rely on when -- moments I need them the most. Some matches it's there, some not.   
 I just have to sort of keep my head up and try to improve, work. There are things I'm working on. Serve is a big part of that progress. I feel it's been going well at times, but it's just not consistent like I would like it to be.   
 It just might just take some time, and I have to accept that, although it's hard.   
  
  Q. What part of the actual serve are you trying to change or improve on?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: I tried to go back to the old ones sort of, a little bit more relaxed with the swing. Also with my left hand, they way I hold the ball, and just to work on that ball toss.   
  
  Q. In some of the key moments, it seems like you're lacking confidence.   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I was actually talking with my coach just before. What happens is that, you know, I start well and I play good, and then, you know, because I have no expectation, I just go out there to enjoy.   
 Then I think I can play like this all the time. Then I get tense and I start making mistakes because I want to play like that. Then I just want to go back to playing normal.   
 I just have to get rid of that a little bit and just try to play, yeah, consistent all the time. It might not be at the highest level, but just build on it.   
  
  Q. If someone asked you about your game in 2008 and 2010, what would you say? Why were you No. 1 and playing French Open final, and now second round out?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: I think it's expectations from myself that I put. And actually, I think I'm striking the ball better now than I did in 2008 or any previous years. Also, you know, my movement is getting there. Last year my fitness was really lacking, and now I'm putting things in place.   
 It will take some time for it. Considering tennis, I mean, I'm playing much better than I was. It's just that expectation that sometimes I put on myself, and it's very overwhelming.   
 And then I use so much energy. And then when it counts the most, I'm behind. So I just have to find that balance, I guess.   
  
  Q. Why were you lacking fitness last year?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: I had heaps of little injuries that constantly kept showing up, so I really couldn't work consistently on anything. It was always, you know, few days on court and then off the court. It was always like this.   
 Then, yeah, since I start working with Scott after Wimbledon, I haven't done much fitness. So obviously it's reflected a lot in my game. So now I have everything in place. I'm feeling really happy and positive about it.  
  
  Q. When you took three months off at the end of last year, how did you spend that time?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, I had five weeks off. I don't remember the last time that happened. So it was really nice just to get my mind off, you know, everything. Because it's been quite intense, you know, period for me, and I didn't have much time off in between.   
 So to have that time off the court was really good. Spending also some time with the family and friends back in Belgrade, which was really nice. Then I start working on my fitness beginning of November already.   
 Then towards the end of November, I started to do tennis, as well; I did a block with Sven.  
  
  Q. You say that was part of sport, recapturing glory when everything is going well, and you're challenged by form and fitness.   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, definitely. Many times I took it for granted. When you have it, you just feel like it's going to be there. But you just have constantly to keep reminding yourself how hard you worked to get there and still to work as hard and keep there, but also work smart.   
 I think at one point I was overtrained, and I just didn't want to be out there competing because I felt exhausted. I wanted to have some time off.   
 It's very important to find that balance. But, you know, you can learn from people's experiences. Sometimes I guess you have to go through it yourself.  
  
  Q. Have you spoken to Adam about that? You both had similar years that just escaped you at times.   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, yeah, you know, I think every athlete goes through it. You know, you just have to sort of, yeah, be positive and stay positive. Sometimes it's hard.   
 But, you know, it's like you have families that support us a lot and you can go through it together. And then, you know, I'm sure, you know, we learn from it. We're not going to let it happen again.   
  
  Q. What do you do this year to give yourself a break when you're away from tennis? How do you unwind and relax? Is there something different in your routine this year?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, you know, I still have to find things that's gonna make me relax. I really like reading and watching movies. Sometimes I spend too much time in the room; it's not good either.   
 Just find something, go for a walk just to keep your mind off of tennis, you know, surround yourself with positive people.  
  
  Q. Are you able to play from instinct, or are you thinking too much on court?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: That's a big part of my game. I think when I actually let go of, you know, emotions, what I have to do, that's when I play my best. That's when instincts overtake a lot. I have to work on it. That's something I'll always struggle with.   
  
  Q. You said the ball toss is a problem for you. What is the difficulty for you?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: I think what happens when my ball toss gets away from me, it's when I rush a little bit. When I'm excited, when I want to keep going, I want a good serve, and then I rush and I just don't take time. That's when it happens. It just gets away from me because I hold the ball so tight instead of just relaxing.   
 Yeah, it's something I'm working on.   
  
  Q. You talked about playing with instinct. When was the last time you think you were playing with pure instinct and not thinking?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: In Brisbane I played some really good matches. You know against Pavlyuchenkova in the quarterfinal I played a good match. I felt really good on the court. That's why I'm a little bit disappointed I couldn't transfer that into this week.   
 You know, still, like I said, it might take time. You know, in Brisbane it was there. This week, you know, it was here and there. But, you know, it was tough match. She played well. It was very long match, yeah.   
  
  Q. Is it still fun, or are there days when it's stressful and you feel like you're suffering?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I mean, I do. Yeah, that consumes a lot of energy, too. That's something -- you know, I think I'm very happy and I feel I have the right things in place and I'm playing, like I said, striking the ball really well.   
 That's why it's disappointing when I get on a court and I put so much pressure on myself that it's not enjoyable anymore, it's overwhelming. That's why I think it's important, yeah, to get away from it a little bit and just enjoy.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT