CHINA OPEN
October 3, 2015
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. IVANOVIC/C. Dellacqua
  6‑4, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. What happened at 4‑3 to change the game?
ANA IVANOVIC: Well, my super coach. I think I calmed down a little bit and I sort of took more time and I started to do things a little better actually. 
I felt like I was playing well, but I rushing and I missed a few spin volleys and a few finishing shots previous to that. Then after I really tried to be patient and make her move and I really started to serve better, too. 

Q. That was the advice you got at the time?
ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, definitely. And also to look more for my forehand. I had time to run around, and I did that well. 

Q. Next up is a meeting with Venus Williams. How do you tackle that encounter?
ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I think it's going to be tough match. She's been playing really well. She's just had tough win in Wuhan. I think it's going to be a couple days before we play. 
But it's going to be a good challenge for me. I've been playing quite a few matches these couple of weeks now. I'm looking forward to it. 

Q. Over the past week a lot of players have been getting injured and retiring. How do you think that improves your chances of reaching the WTA Finals?
ANA IVANOVIC: Well, to be honest, I'm not thinking that far ahead. Kind of every time you try to think about that it kind of backfires. So you have to really stay humble and work hard for every match. 
Like we see, there are so many tough opponents out there from first round. You really have to keep your head in the right place and try to play like you practice. 

Q. Lots of support for you here from the Beijing crowd. Does that make it easier for you?
ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, definitely. It's really nice to see so many people out there. And they actually try to write things in Serbian, which is very, very cute. It does make me feel very warm here. 

Q. What will you do between the next couple of days to prepare for Venus?
ANA IVANOVIC: Against her, obviously it's who gets the first hit. She's a big striker, has a big serve. It's going to be very important for me to serve well and to try to make the returns. 
So I'm going to focus more on that and be more explosive. Today also a few times I was caught too much at the back behind Beijing sign and I really need to step in against Venus. 

Q. You served really well today. Six aces. Did you prepare for this?
ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I've been working on my serve for a while. It's been improving. It's been there sometimes and sometimes not so. Today I really kept serving well throughout the match. It gives me lots of confidence to know I'm doing the right things. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT