WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2009
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. WILLIAMS/A. Ivanovic
  6-1, 0-1 (ret.)

 THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ana Ivanovic. I wonder who would like to start the questions rolling. 

 Q. Horrible way to go. 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, definitely. Uhm, that's the most disappointing thing because I felt like I wasn't given a fair chance, you know, to fight. 
 But, yeah, it was really disappointing, especially that, you know, all of a sudden I felt pain after that serve. And, yeah, I'm really disappointing. 

 Q. Did you have the problem in the first set?
 ANA IVANOVIC: No, no, nothing. I didn't feel anything up until that point. Over past few days I felt muscle tightness, but that was, you know, normal after playing so much on the grass. 
 Just when I was serving 30-40 down in that first game, and after my first serve when I landed I just felt a sharp pain on my inner thigh and I couldn't step on my leg ever since. 

 Q. It was very hot today on Centre Court. I think it was 31 degrees in the shade. Did the heat have anything to do with it? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: It was very hot, but I made sure I stayed hydrated. I had a lot to drink before the match and also last night. Yeah, it was a different day in London. 
 But, yeah, you know, I enjoyed. I thought I had some chances in the first game of the first set. Even though it was 6-1, I still thought it was pretty close. She played really well. She wasn't missing much. 
 But, yeah, I just felt like, uhm, maybe I should have had a fair chance to fight back. 

 Q. Have you been given any indication yet how serious it is?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Unfortunately doctor was not here yet. He's coming only later in the afternoon. So I'm gonna do the checkups later.

 Q. How big a disappointment is it compared to anything else you've endured?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Obviously it's very disappointing. You know, especially that I felt my form was getting better and better. So, yeah, it's really frustrating (tearing up.)

 Q. Is that part of the problem, because you hadn't had the best year, but you were coming back? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, just frustrating because, like I said, I felt, you know, good out there. I was playing better each match. I just thought, you know, it was great challenge for me today to play against someone like Venus. 
 And, yeah, just disappointing I didn't get the right chance, you know, to finish the match. 

 Q. Will you go away from Wimbledon with a positive feeling, the fact that you think, Yeah, I was playing better, it was coming back?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, definitely. I think I achieved a lot in the first week and I had some great matches and played some great tennis. And, uhm, yeah, I have to take some positives. Felt like I was in a right way and doing right things, and just have to keep doing that. 
 Yeah, look forward for next tournament. 

 Q. You said you felt you had a good chance against Venus. The first set didn't show that. Can you talk about that first set. 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I mean, I think if I would have managed to break the first game I think the first set would look a lot different. You know, even though the score was not indicating that, I thought was pretty close. 
 But, like I said, she wasn't making many mistakes. And, uhm, I just, you know, tried to hang in there, because it's hard to play like that full match. 
 But obviously she's great player. She was serving really well. It would have been, you know, tough match. You know, maybe the second set wouldn't be much different. 
 But still I felt like I should have at least had, you know, chance to try. 

 Q. There's been a bit of controversy about the Wimbledon playing committee admitting that good looks are a factor when they choose which female tennis players play on Centre Court. What do you think about that? Do you think good looks should be taken into consideration about who should be on the show courts?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, as far as I know, schedules are made on requests from WTA and ATP and also TV stations. So, uhm, I think everyone, you know, gets opportunity to play on Centre Court when they progress far. 
 But it's very hard. I think it's not easy to make schedule, you know. But, yeah, I really don't know. 

 Q. Do you think female tennis players should be chosen to play on Centre Court because of their tennis rather than what they look like?
 ANA IVANOVIC: I think on the Centre Court we always have interesting matches. You know, there is lot of interesting matches and lot of good players out there. 
 So, uhm, you know, they have chance only to play one or two women's matches on the big courts, so it's very hard for them to choose, I think. 

 Q. You've been world No. 1 and French Open champion. Would it have been possible to have done that if you hadn't left your country at an early age to learn your tennis elsewhere?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Uhm, no, I don't think. I still think, you know, where I come from, you know, it helped me to get where I am right now. I appreciate everything I had back there. 
 I think, you know, there were some tough times, there is no doubt about that. But I think in some way it made me stronger, made me appreciate much more what I had once I started traveling. 
 Obviously, I was very fortunate enough at a young age get sponsors from outside of Serbia, and I think that was a big step for my career. Maybe without that would be, you know, harder or taken longer time. 

 Q. When you look back at that time, obviously your experience is very positive. When other people are taken away by agents who spot the talent early, are there ever any who don't make the grade like you have?
 ANA IVANOVIC: In Serbia, you mean? 

 Q. Generally speaking on the tour. 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, I think it's very individual. So I think if a person is determined and motivated and has the talent, eventually it will come out. And, you know, with sponsors, obviously it comes maybe a little bit easier because you are in a position to travel earlier on and maybe get a wild cards for some bigger events. 
 But, you know, even if you just have a talent and keep working hard, I think you can get through. 
 I mean, when I started playing I started at the lowest level, and I didn't have wild cards for a Grand Slam when I started. Also I think it's possible with the hard work to get there. 

 Q. How hard do you think it's going to be for anyone to beat Venus this week?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Uhm, it's gonna be tough. I mean, she's a great player, and she obviously enjoys playing here and competing. She seems she's in a good form. So, yeah, it's gonna be tough.

 Q. Do you think she's the favorite for the title?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I think definitely she has good chance. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT