INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (WOMEN)
May 6, 2009
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/A. Ivanovic
  6-1, 3-6, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You seemed to be hitting the ball in the right spots, but just not hard enough. 
 ANA IVANOVIC: No, I think I was playing pretty well, especially, you know, in the third set, and, you know, second set. 
 But she played really well. You know, after I was 4-Love up she didn't give me much opportunities. I was a little bit disappointed I didn't step in and take some balls out of the air, because I think that's the way I should play against her. Because she's great mover, and she was retrieving lots of balls.
 Yeah, I just stayed way back way too much, I think.

 Q. So is that confidence if you're standing further back and not attacking the ball?
 ANA IVANOVIC: I don't think it's confidence, because I been hitting really well. Last night I had really good match against Francesca. I just wasn't aware of these things, you know, at that present moment. 
 Afterwards, when I was speaking with my coach, I was like, yeah, that's exactly what was missing. 

 Q. Did you suffer from the change in the game conditions comparing from yesterday even? Yesterday the court was probably much slower than today. 
 ANA IVANOVIC: It was. It was big difference today on the court. But I think it was for both of us, because she also played late last night. Yeah, it obviously took some time to adjust. 
 But yeah, I mean, I felt like in the second set I gained back my confidence and my game and I started playing much better. But then, yeah, I think from 4-Love she hardly make any errors, and it was very hard. 
 I also think my serve I should have mixed it up a little bit more when I was up a couple of breaks. But she played extremely well and hardly made any errors. 

 Q. How do you feel about your general clay court form so soon before Roland Garros where you're defending your title?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Um, I feel really good. I mean, yesterday I played unbelievable match, and that gave my a lot of confidence. Because I was working really hard for my points. Obviously Francesca is very tough opponent. It really, you know, made me feel good. 
 And my serve is getting much better. I feel power on it. It's back. I just have to stick with the things I been doing. I been working really hard, and obviously haven't played too many matches on the clay courts. 
 I really hope, you know, next week to have opportunity to compete a little bit more and play some matches, because I been practicing way enough. Yeah, I feel confident.

 Q. How do you explain the difference between the early part of the game, the middle, and the end? Was it just your opponent's play, or was there something that changed in your play?
 ANA IVANOVIC: In the beginning, I really started poor. I was making way too many unforced errors, I think, and it wasn't much rallies happening in the beginning. It was a little bit frustrating, because -- maybe it was also because, like I mentioned, last night I played really well, so I just assumed I would start the same. 
 I wasn't working as hard for my points and I was going for winners way too early. Just once I settled in I felt like I had my game back and, you know, game plan was working well. 
 But then in the third set, in the end, she start playing much more aggressive and deeper balls. So even when I have chance to come in I wasn't doing that, because I just, you know, I was -- yeah, staying way too much on the baseline and she was moving me around. Obviously that was a little bit, yeah, frustrating. 

 Q. Did you suffer from a problem on your foot, or not? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: On my foot, no. 

 Q. You have many, many fan in the girl, not just the man. How do you explain the success? I know many, many girl come from many, many kilometers to see you today. How do you explain the success? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: It's very nice for me to hear that. It's great to have fans. I mean, I start playing tennis because of Monica Seles, so if someone can start to play tennis because of me, I'm more than flattered from that. 
 But it's always very nice to hear that you have supporters. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT