INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (WOMEN)
May 3, 2009
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) Have you looked at the draw, and what do you expect from the tournament? Who would you like to play against?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: I don't like to look at the draw. I just like to take it round by round.   
 I'm just so happy to be back here and have the opportunity to compete again and start the clay court season again. I had the one match in the Fed Cup couple weeks ago; that was good.   
 I'm just excited to play again. I didn't look too much. You know, it doesn't matter against who you play, just important to enjoy and to play your game. That's what I try to focus on.   
  
  Q. How would you rate your moment in tennis so far?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: You mean...  
  
  Q. The way you're playing at the moment? How you're feeling? Are you motivated?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: I am very motivated. I been practicing really well last couple of weeks and months, and I'm very excited about the way my game is.   
 I feel very physically fit. Probably the fittest I been in long time. We been working really on the courts and off the court.   
 I just feel very, very happy. I'm enjoying every practice and every match. That's what means a lot to me. Just want to keep doing the same thing, and I know results will come.   
  
  Q. Do you prefer interviews or photo shoots with the camera and the pictures?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, obviously, you know, it's nice to do both. I think it's important. When I first started on the tour, it was very hard for me to do interviews because I'm very shy person. I don't like to open up.   
 But you learn over time that it's very important part of the job. It's the same with the camera. I didn't feel so comfortable, but you realize it's part of your job.   
 Sometimes it can be harder than practice actually, you know. It takes more energy out of you, you know, and it's longer probably.   
 But, you know, I understand it's a part of the job and I accept it and I try to enjoy it. Sometimes questions can be really interesting and you learn about yourself because the question is about something you probably haven't thought about, you know, maybe personal or just the way of thinking. It can be really interesting.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT