SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 29, 2009
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. SZAVAY/A. Ivanovic
  6-4, 4-6, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Ana, talking about the match. You must be pretty frustrated?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I'm really disappointed with today's game. You know, I hardly did anything well today. You know, I was trying to come in, and I was volleying pretty well at times, but I was really disappointed. 
 I couldn't really hold my serve. And just the way I started, I felt like I had so many chances early on in the match. I always was missing by a little bit, and got really down on myself.
 It was kind of hard to pick up from there.

 Q. Do you think that because you played for so long at Indian Wells you didn't have the time to prepare for this tournament?
 ANA IVANOVIC: No, I don't think so. I mean, I had plenty of time. I came here on Monday, had the day off, and then practiced a couple days. I think I had, you know, enough time to prepare. 
 It's just that today I felt I was struggling a lot mentally. I wasn't really, you know, in the moment in a match, and very disappointed with that, yeah.

 Q. Can you look back until after the French when everything was on a high and maybe you lost some momentum with the injury and things haven't quite settled for you, even with last week's good result?
 ANA IVANOVIC: I mean, definitely. I did lose the momentum with injury and everything. But, yeah, I mean, it's just passed me. It was experience, you know. 
 I felt really good coming into this week. Yesterday I had really good practice and was on a high, feeling pretty confident, and you just -- I think maybe that was the reason that I sort of, you know, expected some things would come easier today on the court than they actually did. 
 So, yeah, it was tougher than I expected. Yeah.

 Q. How are things with Craig, and what are his thoughts after the match?
 ANA IVANOVIC: It's working great really. We enjoy working with each other. We have great communication on the court, so that's really good. Yeah, obviously he's still getting to know me and I'm still getting to know him.
 Yeah, he thought I volleyed pretty well and maybe should have used that even a little bit more today. But, yeah, I mean, we both agree that it was really a little bit about tennis today. It was more just my mental state and, just, yeah, not accepting certain things.

 Q. You've talked about struggling with separating your tennis life and your personal life and staying up thinking about it when you go to bed. Is that related today that?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, it's kind of funny, because last night I couldn't really fall asleep. Now looking back, I've been thinking about my game, because like I said, I had a really good practice yesterday and I was so excited about my game and I felt really good.
 You know, I thought, Oh, this is great. I started already, you know, projecting the future. You know, This is so good. I just have to keep like this. 
 Before I knew it, it was like 12:30, 1:00 a.m. and I was still thinking about that. I was like, Jesus, just try to relax and try to fall asleep. 
 So, yeah, I didn't have a good night of sleep, and you see what happens. I have to try to concentrate. I didn't realize it. 

 Q. In a few weeks, Jelena and you will be trying to get Serbia into the World Group for the first time. Can you talk about what that would mean for you and also for Serbia?
 ANA IVANOVIC: I think, you know, first of all, we're going back to clay, which is, you know, a nice change. I think we have pretty good chances.
 It's going to be great achievement for Serbia. People are very excited about it. It just showed how many people showed up for our last Fed Cup match in Belgrade. It was more than 15,000 people, which is great. 
 I think they're hoping we're going to bring it once again to play in Serbia. If we win we will have chance to do it again next year. I think we're all pretty excited about it. We, you know, rate it as one of the priority weeks, I would say.

 Q. That was the largest Fed Cup crowd ever. 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah.

 Q. What was that like? What did it feel like?
 ANA IVANOVIC: It was actually amazing, because Serbia, we have such a big culture. We're famous our football or basketball or water polo, but, you know, not for tennis before maybe last few years. 
 And I was really expecting that they would cheer a lot during the points, like they do in basketball matches, but they were actually really, really well behaved. 
 It was a lot of kids, which was great to see. It was very inspiring for me, you know, to play. I was very motivated. It was the first time I played official match in front of the home crowd. It was amazing experience. They were really fair. They were applauding for opponents, as well. Really, really interesting experience.

 Q. Do you like that team? Because when Jelena and you are basically competitors. I mean, most of the year. Then you have to kind of come together as a team. Do you like that concept? Is it hard for you or what?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Because tennis is individual sport, so we spend so much time with our team. Sometimes it's like, Just give me a break. You know, Fed Cup, it's a great week to, you know, hang out with other girls and, you know, be, you know, for one. 
 And we had actually a very young girl. She's 15 and she's going to be really, really good. She was on the team with us. I think it was great experience for her as well to be around Jelena and myself and learn a lot about, you know, what it takes to be at the top.
 And, you know, I sort of felt so old trying to mentor her and give her some advices [sic.] It was still really, really fun. Lots of people, like even officials in the team I know for a long time. It's great to be also around Serbians.

 Q. Is that just solely playing for Serbia? Some countries, their federations have a lot of money to pay the players. I assume your federation doesn't. It could be an expense-only thing. Does it matter to you?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Doesn't matter. I try to represent my country every time I play and I compete, but I think Fed Cup is something, you know, very special. You know, I don't request much. 
 I know they went through some tough times, and if they have they will give. And really, they organized it really well. The Fed Cup that was held in Belgrade, it was really nicely organized.
 Everything was perfect, so I have a good relationship with them.

 Q. Speaking about something very special in a few weeks, you have opportunity to defend your title at the French Open. How excited are you about that?
 ANA IVANOVIC: I love playing French Open. I mean, my first, you know, Grand Slam quarterfinal actually came there, and then first final, Grand Slam final and the title. I just enjoy playing in Paris in front of the French crowd. It's always amazing experience.
 Yeah, I'm looking forward to go back there. You know, the first time I step on Philippe Chatrier to practice all the emotions come back. It's a great experience.

 Q. Do you see any parallels with you and Jelena with the struggles at the start of this year and last year when you both got to No. 1, first Grand Slam? Are there some parallels there?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, you know, I think in every person's career there is always up and downs. It's just important to, you know, catch yourself and, you know, don't be too tough. Because, you know, loss is a part of the game. 
 You just have to accept them and don't make them your defeats. Try to work hard. Use it as incentive to work even harder and achieve even greater things. 
 It's also very personal, but I think it's also a matter of accepting you're not going to feel great and try to work through these tough times. 
 Yeah, you know, we really did so good for a long time. Also, it takes time to actually realize this and accept it that, you know, we're one of the top players.
 It's completely different, because in Serbia, we don't have such a great history of tennis. We didn't have opportunity to talk with any top players before, you know, what it takes to get there and to stay there. So we have to sort of go through it on our own.
 You know, when you are at the top, you don't realize that it's even harder to stay there. That's something we have to probably accept.

 Q. Do you see a new wave of young Serbian girls wanting to follow in your footsteps that you have a chance to mentor like you haven't had?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I would love if I can inspire some, you know, young kids or girls, boys to play, because I know how it feels because I started playing tennis because of Monica Seles. 
 So if I can inspire anyone, I would be more than happy to. And, yeah, I think it was great to see, like I mentioned already during our Fed Cup matches, half of the people in the crowds were actually kids, younger than 10. It was great to see them.

 Q. Who was the 15 year old?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Alexandra Krunic. She is actually like a fifth player. She was around and practiced with us and was in the team. Yeah, she's competing. She's playing juniors.

 Q. You've also created a name for yourself on the humanitarian side. Can you talk to us a little bit about your humanitarian efforts and what causes are specifically important to you?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I mean, for me, I feel so fortunate, you know, that tennis open up new door for me. I love to help people, and kids in particular. 
 So a couple of years ago, I joined the UNICEF program for a school without violence in Serbia, so UNICEF in Bosnia and Serbia. Every time I'm there I trying to visit some schools and talk with the kids or organize -- we had few exhibitions in Serbia, or I wrote a couple of articles also for charity and raise money for it. 
 You know, I really hope in the future I would have opportunity to do it worldwide, but it's something that really inspires me. Like I said, I feel very fortunate that tennis gave me the opportunity to do this. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT