BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 22, 2009
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. ZVONAREVA/A. Ivanovic
  7-6, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. The conditions, of course, it was like that Belgrade wind. Hopefully you can tell us better what were the conditions? Were they impossible?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, honestly, it was the toughest conditions I ever played in. It was very, very windy, and I think, you know, it wasn't much about game and game plan today. It was just, you know, who was -- who can handle the conditions better, and who can, you know, stay probably mentally tougher through it. 
 Today she did. Yeah, she played really well.

 Q. Did you ever think about maybe changing up your game plan a little bit, maybe keep the balls in the middle instead of going for the outright winner?
 ANA IVANOVIC: I tried, but, you know, like I said, I thought it really came down to who can hang in there and be mentally tougher. I tried to get through the middle, but it was very hard to control the ball. 
 You know, I think at some points I didn't, you know, believe. Because I felt my game really well and my strokes were, I felt, really confident with that.
 And I tried to go for some shots, but, um, it was very hard to adjust to all the wind. You know, the balls, so many times I just didn't make enough steps to move forward; then the other times I was too much forward, and, you know, had to move back.
 It was just very hard for me to adjust.

 Q. The end of the first set really might have been the match right there, huh?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, yeah. Very disappointed with the set points that I didn't use. I think all of them basically I lost on the same mistake, and it was always few more steps missing for me to move forward. I was very much in doubt whether I should still go for my shots or just try to make her play, because, like I said, the conditions were very hard. 
 Yeah, it was constantly changing. So, yeah, I mean, I made lots of same mistakes, and that was very disappointing.

 Q. What's been the toughest conditions you've played in before today, and how did that compare to today?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Um, the toughest conditions before today was in Doha, I think two years ago during the tournament in February. It was also so, so windy, and it was like a sand storm. Actually, during that match, I twisted my ankle, so it was not a good memory.
 I won the match, but, yeah, it wasn't too good.

 Q. It was a little similar in the sandy quality of the air?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, yeah, it was. You know, it's also set in desert, so also sand comes with the wind. It was a little bit tough, but today was just -- you know, at that time in Doha was constantly windy, but today it was like on and off, and it was very hard to adjust.

 Q. What did you think this morning before the match? How were you preparing mentally for the conditions?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I was expecting it was going to be windy once I saw the conditions this morning and during my warmup. I just tried to prepare myself mentally, that, you know, it's going to be not -- it's not going to come down to, you know, tennis, to tactics or anything, just, you know, who can hang in there more. 
 So that's why I was a little bit disappointed that I let myself down a little bit more than she did. That was the main difference today.

 Q. Could you sense it during the match, that she had a mental toughness that you felt was superior to yours?
 ANA IVANOVIC: You know, in the first set I thought I had her couple of times. She was also getting very frustrated, and I could see that. 
 You know, after losing few set points, you know, I tried to hang in there. In the tiebreak I tried to stay mentally tough. But, you know, just made a couple of errors in deciding moments. You know, it was very tough afterwards, too, to come back in the second set.

 Q. What was the biggest issue? Was it throwing the ball up for serves? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: It was overall everything. The service, I mean, I'm the one who could handle the tougher ball tosses, so I thought that would be my advantage today. Didn't turn out that way.
 But, you know, through the rallies, it was just very hard to judge where the ball would bounce and where the ball will end up. 

 Q. Why didn't you come in to net more maybe to shorten points? Was it just because it was hard to keep the ball on the court in order to get to net?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, exactly. Because I felt like my shots, I wasn't doing enough with my shots in order to be able to come to the net more often. Maybe on some of the short balls I should have just come in, you know, whether I hit it well or not.
 A couple times I did it and she felt under pressure, but it just -- it was very hard, like I said, to read the way ball will bounce and the ball will come. You know, that's why it was also very hard to commit and come forward.

 Q. You seem happy, as if you've won the tournament almost. What are the good things about... 
 ANA IVANOVIC: I got my emotions out before I came in here. (laughter.) Let me tell you.
 No, I mean, yeah, I just have to accept it and try to learn from this. Like I said, I felt so good about my game, so disappointed about the way the conditions were today, and I just couldn't, you know, play normal game. 
 Even if I lost, at least, you know, I enjoy it out there. It's very hard to say I was enjoying because it was very frustrating at times. I have to learn from this. You know, in Miami, it gets really windy there, too. So, you know, probably not this windy, but it's still good to get through matches like this.

 Q. For you, what will be the most important thing this year to play consistently tournament to tournament, whether you win it or not, but maybe to go to Miami and semifinals or finals and not lose in the first couple rounds. 
 ANA IVANOVIC: That's my main goal at the moment. Looking back through last year, even the first half when I was doing well, there was something missing in my game: consistency. My main focus is to be prepared for Miami. It's not going to be easy, you know, starting a tournament again, but it's something I really want to improve and build this year and try to keep that consistency level through the match and through match after match.
 So, yeah, that's something I really want to achieve in Miami and try and enjoy the match. 

 Q. Is Vera like the Russians in any way? Is she unique? Does she remind you of any of the other Russian girls?
 ANA IVANOVIC: She improve a lot in her mental strength, because she's fighting, you know, and she's very good runner. She brings lots of balls back, so makes you work really hard for points.

 Q. Did you give Rafa or Andy any advice as they were walking out of the tunnel as to what to do?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, like I said, I was dealing with my emotions. I didn't see them. (Laughter.)

 Q. When you say dealing with emotions, were you just yelling and screaming or... 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Why don't you ask my coaches. (Laughter.) 

 Q. When you were dealing with your emotions, or maybe when you were done with dealing with your emotions, did you think, was there one or two shots out there in particular that were really bizarre where you went from the forehand side to a backhand volley or that second-serve ace that you got or... 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, there were lots of funny points out there today. On top of them, I had to serve. And in the second game I believe when she was serving, she sort of put her serve in, and I didn't see the ball. I was trying to run forward, and I completely mishit the ball. 
 Then the other time she made a lob, I was running to hit my backhand, and all of a sudden it came to my forehand, so I hit sort of like this. 
 It was just, yeah, lots of funny shots, inventions today. 

 Q. At times, did you feel like a junior or something, just because it was so awkward?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, sometimes you just have to laugh it off. But it's very hard to laugh when you know you looked ridiculous.

 Q. Despite this loss, gone with the wind, you're establishing a tradition here. You won last year, in the final here. Not bad for a girl from Serbia. Don't you agree? You're among the names, here's Chris Evert. 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I'm just a little bit disappointed it couldn't be there with Martina winning it a couple years in a row. But, you know, I enjoy playing here. I love coming to the desert. 
 I feel everything is so easygoing. Yeah, I just really enjoy playing here, so I'm excited to come back. I'm very thrilled that I managed to make a final again. 

 Q. So for the season as a whole, we're sort of getting going in the season, but what would be a good season for you this year?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Like your colleague mentioned, I think the most important thing is consistency. I feel confident in my game at the moment, and just keep building on that and trying to remain consistent. 
 I know I have a game to beat any player on any given day. I just have to build confidence on that, and try to, you know, win a lot of matches.

 Q. You don't put it in terms of a Slam win... 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Oh, obviously I do set goals for myself. I want to reach Championships again. I really think I have the ability to win another Grand Slam. I know it's a lot of hard work. I've done it in the past. I know I can do it again. 
 That's something that I want to focus on, and I think everyone tries to peak for Grand Slams, and I think I can get another Grand Slam title.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT