AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2009
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. KLEYBANOVA/A. Ivanovic
  7-5, 6-7, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Didn't seem to get your form where you wanted to in the third set.   
 ANA IVANOVIC: She played really well. I thought so. I tried to come back. I fought really hard in the second set and had my chances. Had my chances in the first set and in the third set.   
 Unfortunately, in important points she played really well. You know, I gave my 100%. Today she was better. She came up with some unbelievable shots and unbelievable angles. I think she played the match of her career.   
  
  Q. How did you feel you're playing in comparison to last year?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, it's very hard to compare. You know, obviously last year I was playing better and better through each match. Today I thought I was fighting really hard, and I had some unbelievable shots. She was playing really well and you come out with different opponents. So it's very hard to compare.  
  
  Q. You staged a remarkable comeback last year against. When you broke her back in the third set, did you think you were coming back again?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I believe until the last point I can still turn around the match. I did in the second set with a couple breaks down and a couple more breaks down. I really tried to fight very hard. I also thought I was a little bit unlucky with a few let cords that went out. Also, I was a little bit disappointed and my serve let me down in few important moments of the match.   
 Still, like I said, she played an amazing match. I gave my hundred percent, and I can only learn from this and try to work hard. Sometimes losses make you more motivated to work harder.   
  
  Q. She did play very well. Were you happy with your own level throughout the match?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: I thought the first set was lots of ups and downs. It was very hard to find the rhythm, because I felt like points were very short. It was either winner or unforced errors from both of us. That was a little bit disappointing and frustrating, because I tried to come up with longer rallies and everything. She's just the type of player that likes to hit the first shot and that's it.   
 So that was a little bit frustrating. Especially that I was 5-3 up and serving for the set. After all, I just, yeah, tried to fight until the last moment.   
  
  Q. So how disappointing is this for you, or is it just another maybe roadblock?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: No. Obviously it's very disappointing, and I'm very, very sad because I really felt I could do well here. I felt physically fit. So it's really, really disappointing. I can just try to learn from this.   
 Like I said, sometimes losses make you more motivated to work harder, and that's definitely, you know, my aim.   
 I felt like I was in quite a good level. I just want to keep building on this. There is plenty more tournaments in front of me. That's a good thing about tennis.   
  
  Q. Are you surprised that after winning Roland Garros things have gotten more difficult?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: No. I expect it was going to be tough. Once you become No. 1 player, everyone wants to have a piece of you. All of a sudden you are the person with the target on your back.   
 You know, I just was with injuries it was really hard and a learning experience for me. I faced a lot of first-time situations. It's a new experience for me as well. Lots of things I'm experiencing for the first time.   
 I just want to try to learn from each match I play, and this is definitely a tough one. It might sting at first. In the long run, I hope it makes me tougher.  
  
  Q. Have you got anyone in your entourage that's been in a situation like this? You're not working with a coach, are you?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: No, unfortunately. No one has experienced anything like this. I'm looking for a coach. We have already chat with a couple potential coaches. In the near future, I really would like to make a decision. I think it's important.   
 Also, without a coach for so long it's a little bit tough. You just need some direction sometimes. That's something I felt was missing in my game. Already for a while we're trying to look into some good possibilities.   
 Obviously, it's a hard one, so I want to make sure we get the right coach.   
  
  Q. You looked a bit nervous out there.   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, no. Today I was really not nervous. First match I was a little bit more nervous. Today, no. I really tried to enjoy out there.   
 Like I said, in the beginning I struggled a little bit with the rhythm, so that was something I was looking for, a little bit longer rallies. Otherwise no, I really didn't feel nervous.   
 Actually, I was feeling quite confident out there. After I won the second set, I really thought I could do it, I could win the match and turn it around. Yeah, she just played too good.   
  
  Q. Do you have any comments on the violence that happened today outside, and your thoughts on fans getting so upset they feel like they have to punch each other?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: It's very sad. I think sport is a great thing to bring people together. No matter from where you come from, it's important that everyone be enjoying and happy and enjoy the tennis or sport at all. I'm very sad to see these things happening.   
 Kind of every year here and there a little bit. I really hope in the future people can end this and appreciate the tennis and the hard work we put in and just enjoy it rather than have fights.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT