AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2009
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. IVANOVIC/J. Goerges
  7-5, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Tight first set, but you finished it off well with two aces. How did you sum up your first round?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yes, I'm very pleased to have a victory, obviously. In the beginning, I took some time to adjust to rhythm and everything, to slowly get into match, because I never obviously played against her before. Actually never seen her play. And she's very young, talented girl. She was hitting the ball very well. 
 It took me some time to adjust to that in the beginning, but I'm very happy that I took opportunities I had. It was very, very close first set. In the second set, it was lot of games with deuce and advantage. But very happy to keep my composure in important moments.

 Q. Was it a little tougher than you expected?
 ANA IVANOVIC: You know, I expect tough match every match I step on the court. Obviously you want to work your way into tournament. Like I said, it was tougher because I didn't know what to expect against her. 
 I took some time in the beginning, you know, to see that she was tracking the ball very well. I think I was defending little bit way too much in the beginning. 
 So, you know, just happy to be through and to still have things to work on. 

 Q. How was it out there in terms of the weather? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yes, it was very warm today. You know, it's important to stay hydrated and drink a lot of water. I've been here in Australia for a month now, so kind of got used to it. 

 Q. When is the last time you felt like you hit the ball great for two weeks in a row and you were in complete confidence?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, obviously, you know, I didn't perform best at the two tournaments back to back since probably French Open. But, you know, I feel it's a new year and I feel I'm in a great physical shape. You know, it's a fresh start for me basically. 
 I just want to get the experience I took from last year. I'm just enjoy my tennis again and enjoy competing. I think this might be the two weeks (laughter). 

 Q. Are you waiting for that moment where you're going to wake up in the morning, get on the court, everything is going to be great again?
 ANA IVANOVIC: I don't think it comes overnight, to be honest. I put lot of hard work in off-season. Obviously, you know, worked hard off the court as well. 
 But, you know, I just need some matches to get in that competition spirit again, obviously get some confidence. 
 But, you know, I can fall back on things I've done in off-season. That's something that can get me through my first rounds. 

 Q. How much tougher do you think this slam is than the other three, being that with those three you're playing already into the year, and here basically everybody is coming in?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yes, this is a very specific one. But I think everyone put lots of hard work in off-season. As soon as you see player, you know, you can tell if they put hard work in or not. 
 Yeah, it's just important to work yourself into matches, like I said, because you come here without playing too many matches. So, you know, it's important to realize that and have a good confidence from the work you done in off-season. 

 Q. What about the speed of the courts? Are they any faster or slower than last year?
 ANA IVANOVIC: No, I think they are pretty much the same. The ball is bouncing very, very high obviously. But, yeah, they're playing the same. 

 Q. What would satisfy you at this tournament? How could you walk away a happy person, be happy with your game?
 ANA IVANOVIC: First of all, I'm happy no matter what happens (smiling). Second of all, you know, I just want to have feeling that, you know, I gave hundred percent. 
 If that was not good enough today, that I lost, or if it was good enough to win, that's perfect. I just want to be honest to myself that I gave the best chance I can possibly give. 

 Q. How much does playing well, playing your best, mean to you? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Obviously, you know, you want to perform the best you can every match. But it only happens maybe few times a year that you play perfect tennis, and other days you have to work yourself and stay tough and be mentally stronger maybe than other players. 
 So I don't want to, you know, expect myself to play perfect match, because, like I say, it doesn't happen that often. You just have to sort of get through the tough days. 

 Q. How do you rate your own chances at the moment? How do you rate your own game or form right now?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Like I said, I had very good preparations, so that's something that gives me confidence. There are still some things I want to work on. I just feel I need some more match play, yeah, matches in front of big crowds. That's something that's been missing last couple of months in my game. 
 But otherwise I feel very confident. Today I wasn't doing so much stepping in as I probably would like to. That's something that I worked on in off-season. Hopefully, you know, in my next match I can implement that.

 Q. So there's room for improvement?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, definitely. Like I said, I don't expect myself to step on the court and play perfect tennis from very first moment. You just want to give yourself the best possible chance and give time to work yourself into the tournament. 

 Q. Dementieva was saying the other day after she won Sydney that she loves the pressure of coming into a Grand Slam as a contender; she actually wants people to talk about her as a major contender. Do you feel the same way?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yes, I think it's important to have a pressure coming into the Grand Slam, because if you feel pressure it means that you're in a position to do something well. That's what you work for and what you aim. 
 It definitely gives you confidence. 

 Q. A question on Fed Cup. Obviously you and Jelena could be a team that could win the Fed Cup. How tough are the Russians to even try to take that title away from?
 ANA IVANOVIC: You know, I think we have a very good team. I think we have a very good possibility to win the Fed Cup. There are a lot of good players and good teams out there. 
 But we have to, again, work our way through to the World Group to even be in a chance to play against them.

 Q. The Russians have seemed to have owned it the last four years. 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Hopefully we can take it away from them (laughter). 

 Q. You enjoy the fan support. They continue to love you more and more each year. 
 ANA IVANOVIC: That's a great honor. I really enjoy that. It's great to be back here on a big court, see all the people coming out again and supporting me. 
 Also, you know, few times when I go out for a dinner they come up. They're like, We watched you last year; we're coming again this year. It's great, yeah. 

 Q. Four of the leading players of recent years - Kim Clijsters, Justine Henin, Maria Sharapova, and Lindsay Davenport - are not playing in this event. Do you think that improves your chances of winning it?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, they were definitely great players. You know, Maria was really unfortunate not to perform. But I still think there are lots of good players out there this year, a lot of tough opponents. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT