SONY ERICSSON CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 5, 2008
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  V. ZVONAREVA/A. Ivanovic
6-3, 6-7, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Ana, please. 

 Q. You appeared not to feel very well on court again for the second night. How much a cause of the result of the match was that? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, you know, to tell the truth I don't like to complain, but ever since I came here I wasn't feeling really well. I got a virus and I had pain in my throat. So from the first day, I wasn't feeling so good. But, obviously, didn't want to talk about it and maybe give advantage to other player knowing that. 
 But it was very hard for me to breathe, and I was struggling. I was feeling very dizzy and light headed. So it was very tough. I couldn't eat much for the last couple of days. You know, with the lack of energy, it was a little bit hard. 
 But, you know, it was very disappointing. You know, at this moment, something like this happens, but I still gave my hundred percent in this match, and she played well. Towards the end of the third set I still had chances, but she was the better player.

 Q. Did you actually have any treatment? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I was having lot of for my throat, because my throat was first very inflammated, so I was taking medicine for that. And couple days ago I started to feel bad in my stomach, too. So yeah, now I've got some medicines that will hopefully help.

 Q. On court you had your blood pressure measured? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yes, I don't know why they did that. They were really scaring me (laughing). I started to feel even more sick (laughing). 

 Q. Can you still qualify? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: I think so, but you know, obviously, the chances are very slim. A miracle has to happen. But for me it's a priority now to get better, but there is still a possibility. But lucky I have the day off tomorrow, so hopefully I can get better. 

 Q. In case of tomorrow Jelena wins, do you think you will play the third match considering? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, if I feel better, for sure I will play. Even today in the second set I started to feel not so good. And, you know, I don't like to retire. I wanted to fight till the last moment. So it's the same case for the next match. 
 I really, when I play and want to try my best. So, you know, as long as I'm not in the bed or can't stand up, I will play. 

 Q. How are you planning to spend your birthday tomorrow? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: I don't know. My sparring partner's friend here has jet ski, so he said, I'll take you out. We'll have fun. But I don't know, you know, feeling so dizzy I don't want to fall off and get injured. 
 But I think I will have dinner with my family. It's a very nice thing. Then when I go back home I will celebrate again with my grandparents and the rest of the family. 

 Q. Last year in Shanghai Novak went to the Tennis Masters Cup and he suffered very much the same sort of thing as you. Just felt under par, felt sick. Didn't give his best. Did you speak to him much about that when you met up at all? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: No, not at all, no. But I guess it's always hard, you know. But I haven't spoken to him about it. 

 Q. But still even if you are not feeling well you've been that close to win the match. When do you think it turned? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, that's something that for sure gives me confidence. Like, you know, feeling like this and almost coming back, it's a positive thing. 
 But still, you know, there are a few things that I have to improve. This kind of matches like this, not feeling great. Next time I'm in that situation when I don't feel good about maybe some other things, you know, I know that I can still fight and get through it even if I don't feel 100%. 

 Q. Just looking to next year, last December you came to London and went to Roehampton. Any plans to do the same again? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: No, not for this year. We're planning to go to Australia again earlier. I will spend some time in Belgrade with some friends and family, you know, just take it easy. Then start with fitness first. Then go to Australia, beginning of December.

 Q. Where in Australia particularly are you going to? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: We're going to go to Noosa this year. I'm going to play Brisbane, which is the first tournament, and then we'll stay close to Brisbane. And after preparation, just drive down to Brisbane.

 Q. You don't have family there, do you? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: No, not in Noosa. In Melbourne though. 
 My fitness coach is convincing me it's a good surf there. He wants me to surf.

 Q. Is he teaching you? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yes.

 Q. Are you any good? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: I can stand for two seconds, that's it. I get too excited then I fall off.

 Q. Have you seen Serena surf? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: No, no, does she? 

 Q. Check it out on YouTube. Is it harder to go from indoors to outdoors or outdoors to indoors? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: I think it's harder from indoors to outdoor. Because outdoors there are a lot of other conditions different with the wind and the possible sun, it's a lot different.

 Q. Do you have any particular holiday plans after the tournament? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: I'm going to go back to Serbia and probably visit my grandparents. They have a house in the mountains, and just spend a quiet week there and just enjoy. I'm sure they will spoil me (laughing). 

 Q. Can you ski? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: No, I can't. Because it's too dangerous. When I was younger, I did ski, but now not so much. Maybe when I finish my career I'm going to start again. 

 Q. I have to ask this, but it's my only chance to do it. Next year in Madrid will be a very big tournament, men and women together like a Grand Slam. What do you expect about that tournament? How did you feel with the crowd the last two years in Madrid? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: It was very nice. Especially it was my first Championship, so I was very excited to be there. During the tournament, I had a chance to visit the new site and it looks amazing. 
 Yeah, I'm very, very excited to go there and play. I think it's going to be a great event.

 Q. Do you think that tradition is for change, because the ambition of Madrid with the years is trying to find a place with Australia for a Grand Slam. Do you think for a player it could be good to change the Grand Slam or is it a tradition? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: You know, I'm the wrong person to ask about Melbourne, because it's almost like my hometown. I love Melbourne. I'm very sad to hear it's going to be moved in 2016, I believe. So it's very sad. 
 But, you know, if it has good facilities, you know, and big stadiums, it's a possibility. But there are already a couple of Grand Slams in Europe, so I think it's going to be very hard. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT