SONY ERICSSON CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 4, 2008
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  J. JANKOVIC/A. Ivanovic  
6-3, 6-4  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You must be disappointed to lose when you've played so well?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, obviously, you know, it's very disappointing to lose, but I didn't think I played that well today. It was very tough for me. From the first moment on, I wanted to play sort of like I played in Linz, with confidence and with aggressiveness. But conditions were completely different. It was very windy, and I was going for too much at a time. And you know, it was very frustrating making those mistakes that I wasn't making usually.   
 So, yeah, I was kind of getting down on myself for that. So it was just very tough. You know, she's a tough opponent, she's consistent. She wasn't making many mistakes.   
 Like I said, I was going for too much at a time. In the second set, I started to play better, you know, started to get into rallies a little bit more. But it wasn't enough. I should have done that from the beginning, probably.  
  
  Q. What happened at 5-3?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, I just started feeling dizzy a little bit. I think it's maybe humidity, and I was dehydrated, probably. Yeah, I just felt so weak. Yeah, I had to stop.   
  
  Q. You have defeated Jelena a lot of times before. You think since Roland Garros she's improved her game?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, you know, she's definitely wanting. She has more confidence, that's for sure. Winning three tournaments in a row this fall, and she's playing some good tennis, yeah.   
 So it was a tough match. We had tough matches before as well. Yeah, she's playing good at the moment.   
  
  Q. Just back on the trainer, was it breathing problems? Was it related to dust in the air?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: No, it was breathing problems. I started to feel so, so dizzy and couldn't breathe enough. Yeah, I think it was from, yeah, humidity and just it was a tough match, yeah.  
  
  Q. Secondly, are conditions like this easier for a player that tends to keep the ball in play and away from mistakes, rather than someone who is going to be attacking and trying to hit winners?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, probably, because the conditions here are completely different. It's also a little bit slower, so it's very hard to make a winner. So comparing to indoors that we just played, so yeah, for someone who is more consistent and runs a lot, obviously, it might suit better.   
 But still, I think you have to be a professional and adjust your game which you have to do.   
  
  Q. Will you take any precautions to prevent a repeat of what happened, not feeling well? Is there anything you can do?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I think I have to drink a little bit more liquid, which I haven't really done today that much, probably.   
 But just also take maybe a little bit more time in between the points, because many times I was rushing instead of taking enough time to calm down.   
  
  Q. Was the wind difficult?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, it was very dust gusty there and it was changing all the time. So it was tough conditions. You know, completely different to what I've been used to.   
 You know, unfortunately, also I haven't had chance to practice on center court before, so it was also a different feeling, yeah.  
  
  Q. But you still feel that you can qualify, do you?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, definitely. That's the good side about the round robin system, you know. Even though you lose a match, you still have a chance to qualify and even win it, you know. So I have to look for the positives and focus for tomorrow's match which is very important.   
  
  Q. Tennis is supposed to be a sport that's played outdoors, but you've all been indoors since the US Open, really. So is it kind of strange to have this tournament, which is the biggest tournament of the tour suddenly going outdoors again after you've been indoors for a couple of months?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: It is a little bit strange. But you know, there was a week in between which was enough to go somewhere and outdoor and practice and adjust. But just the way it was this year, and for us as women, I think it's important to also promote tennis here. It's a great event as well.   
 Next year with Canada changing, we're going to have an outdoor season most of the time, and then we're going to play again a championship outdoor, which I think it's even better.  
  
  Q. Where would you rather play tennis, indoors or outdoors?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, it's very hard to say. I played really good last couple of weeks indoor and I enjoyed. I found my rhythm and the way, you know, I have to play indoors and being aggressive with lot of confidence. But like you said, most of the season we play outdoor anyway, so I enjoy also playing outdoors.   
  
  Q. You were very unlucky in that you got to world No. 1 and then you got the injury, but you fought your way back. Do you feel your level is basically back to where it was before you became No. 1?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, last couple of weeks I've been playing really well. Especially in Linz, I had a couple of matches that were almost perfect. And I found my level is getting higher again. So that's definitely something positive. It gives me some confidence. That's why, you know, today's loss is very disappointing, because I felt I was playing better and better.   
 Then just going for a little bit too much at a times. But, yeah, you know, I still look forward to other matches. I still have the possibility to qualify, so. I have to stay positive.   
  
  Q. Have you been watching a little bit of Vera playing today and how do you see tomorrow's match?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I saw a little bit before I started warming up. But she was playing really well today. Not making many mistakes. But we played also in Linz.   
 I think it's going to be a completely different match, with a completely different circumstances and conditions. So I have to change little bit, you know, my mentality going on the court with the idea what I have to do out there. But it's going to be a tough match.   
 She's for sure feeling confident. She had a good season. You know, it was the last one to qualify, so it gave her a lot of confidence.   
 So it's going to be a tough one, but I just want to try to improve from what I did today and see how it goes to battle and to win.   
  
  Q. You said that you feel that Jelena is more confident on the court. How do you feel that on the court that she's more confident?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, she's always been very consistent. But just with some shots, you know, like coming to the net with the volleys and spin volleys. Even in a difficult situations when she goes for shots which normally tactically you wouldn't go for it, and she still makes them. That's some little signs that you can tell that someone has confidence going for these kind of shots. Yeah, she definitely has.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT