XXIX OLYMPIC GAMES
August 10, 2008
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about why you are pulling out.  
 ANA IVANOVIC: I've been struggling with it, as you probably know. Even in Montréal, in the past month, I've been with so much pain. I really tried to do everything to recover straight after Montréal, where I wasn't really ready to play. I tried to play and get some matches and really wanted to compete.   
 After that, it was so painful, we decided to go back to see some doctors. I did treatment. Then I came here and I tried to practice, but it was just too painful.   
 So I still took some time off. I haven't played at all in like last 10 days. Even yesterday, we flew doctor, specific doctor, from Australia to help me with my hand. But, you know, it was not enough.   
 Our doctors at our team, they were doing really great job with the therapies and all kinds of treatments, laser treatment, magnetic also, and just nothing could get my hand better.   
 It's one of the hardest decisions I had to do today. But it was, just, yeah, hard. It's one of the hardest moments in my career, you know. I wanted to play so much here. I was so much looking forward to this occasion. You know, I really tried to do everything. Like I said, I went through so many treatments in past 10 days that I haven't done in my whole life. Just every day trying to recover, trying to get on the court, trying to play. But it was just impossible.   
 Today I really tried to practice again when it was not raining for a little bit. It was just too much pain. But, like I said, you know, we even flew the doctor from Australia to try to help me. It's just too much pain. You know, even we have great doctors and everything, but for this kind of injury, just takes time. Unfortunately, that's what I didn't have enough.   
 I'm just very, very disappointed. I have to look at the positive side, that I'm young, and I still have lots of tournaments.   
  
  Q. Is the doctor from Sydney?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yes. He's an osteopath from Sydney. He came here. I worked with him before when I was in Australia. He was very helpful. Like also our medical staff, they were really doing a great job. They were really taking extremely good care of me. They all tried, you know, their best.   
 But, like I said, it's something that just takes time.   
  
  Q. Can you describe the injury?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: It's inflammation. It's the metacarpal bone. It's inflammation right in the joint between these two parts. It's swollen. Inflammation is there already for a long time. You know, now it just takes much longer time to get out of there because it's not enough circulation.   
  
  Q. Is it too early to say whether or not you will be ready for the US Open?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: I think it's definitely early. After Montréal, I was quite confident I would be ready to play here. That's why I'm even more disappointed. So now I don't want to put my hopes too high.   
 But definitely that's something I want to recover. And I hope it will be enough time, because now I have almost, yeah, two weeks to recover. I'm going to try to make the best plan possible with the doctors and make a right decision for my hand, and maybe do a couple more tests and just see if we can find something. It's been really, really frustrating. Hopefully it will get recovered for the US Open.   
  
  Q. Will you go straight home now?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, definitely. But at the moment, I'm more concerned about my hand, not being able to play. That's very frustrating, especially at a place like this, at this moment. That's my main concern. I just want to get healthy and back on court because I really miss being on court. Yeah, when you have some problem, you realize how important your health is. That's the most important thing.   
  
  Q. What are the different types of treatment you're getting on it? Is it rest and icing or other things?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yes, they're also suggesting immobilization, to put the hand in position and just have it like that, rested. Obviously, you use that movement for a lot of different things. It always irritates. That's why it's so hard to get it healed.   
 But I had laser treatment. I had magnetics. I had obviously lots of ice, different creams. Yeah, just basically tried everything. So maybe immobilization will help it when we stop any kind of movement.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT