INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (WOMEN)
May 14, 2008
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  T. PIRONKOVA/A. Ivanovic  
6-4, 5-7, 6-2  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. (From Italian) My analysis of the match today is that I feel that you used the backhand okay, but when your opponent hit to your forehand that caused you a problem. And also you tried to go into the court too much when you hit your forehand. Is that a correct analysis?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: I definitely made a lot of unforced errors today from both sides. What I found really difficult today, I found it very hard, I felt quite flat out there and I found it a struggle to find my rhythm and to find something inside to fight.   
 I really struggled with my intensity today, and that obviously caused a lot of errors, so I'm really disappointed with that. But it's just something I have to work on.   
  
  Q. (From Italian) Now that Henin has announced her retirement, do you think this is an advantage for you to become No. 1 in the world?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: Well, you know, definitely news is very surprising, but my goals haven't changed about my position, where I stand. I still have to work hard for it.   
 Obviously Justine was tough one to get past, but still, you know, I don't want to think of making some huge change. I just want to keep working hard on some things I have to improve, and there are still some things I have to work hard on.   
 Hopefully if I put these things in place that will give me -- results will come and rankings will speak for itself.   
  
  Q. Did you have any physical problem today?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: No, no. You don't necessarily have to have pain if you lose. Like I spoke, I just didn't have enough intensity today, and I'm very frustrated with myself and obviously disappointed.   
 But she played quite well in the third set. I made too many errors too soon in the rallies, so I have to, yeah, for sure to work hard.   
 Now I have about ten days to prepare for French Open.   
  
  Q. (From Italian) You said you will need to work hard if you want to become No. 1 and replace maybe Justine at the top of the ranking. But since you were a child you've been working very hard. You used to train in a swimming pool and train in difficult conditions. Do you think all this hard work will make so you tired that maybe in a few year's time you will also retire and follow in Justine's footsteps?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: Hopefully not. As long as it feels right and I like the game and competing, obviously there is no reason for you to retire.   
 But, you know, working hard is something that drives me and motivates me. Obviously I still have so many things I want to achieve.   
 Yeah, I just want to -- working hard is something that gives me energy, you know, to achieve these things, so I'm not thinking about retirement at all.   
  
  Q. What does tennis lose with Justine's retirement? What did she mean to the game?   
 ANA IVANOVIC: Another champion. I mean, she was a great player and achieved so much. She brought a lot to the women's game.   
 She had completely different game than any other girl on the tour probably. She worked really hard and last year she had amazing results.  
 You know, it's just I'm sorry to hear this thing, but it's her own feeling and her own decision. You know, if she's happy with her career and what she achieved, I mean, she won a Grand Slam. She was No. 1 for so long, so she had very successful career.   
  
  Q. (From Italian) Everyone thought you might win Rome. You always said that Rome has a particular feel to it and it's very special to you and there is a particular atmosphere. So does this make it all the more disappointing that you haven't done well this year?  
 ANA IVANOVIC: It does. You know, I also felt, coming into this tournament I felt in the good shape. I been working really hard, so I'm very disappointed to be out so early.   
 I was hoping also I could stay and play until the weekend comes. But still, you know, like I said, I really didn't play that well today and it's very disappointing.   
 It also makes me more hungry to work harder and to improve, and, you know, next time play better.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT