INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (WOMEN)
May 12, 2008
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. It's a Serbian tournament from last year and yesterday. 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I hope we can keep up the good scores. 

 Q. Is Italy and Italian Open any different from any other tournament for you on your side, or doesn't make any difference?
 ANA IVANOVIC: I love Rome. It's my favorite city in Europe, and I enjoy so much to come back here. I was really disappointed last two years. I was here both times and had to pull out with an injury. 
 I'm really excited to be back here, and I hope I can actually step on a court and play. Like I said, I love this place, and I hope I can stay a long time. 

 Q. After the last months you had, and two Grand Slam finals in Paris and Australia, do you feel you are a different player this year comparing to last year?
 ANA IVANOVIC: I do actually. Since Berlin last year I feel I improve so much and I mature a lot on the court and in my game actually. So I feel I'm playing more consistent, and also I had lots of wins over top players, which for sure gives me confidence. 
 So, yeah, I'm just enjoying my time. This is the best time of my career so far, the highest I've been ranked and the best tennis I've been playing. I just want to keep the hard work up, and the results also. 
 You know, hopefully make even one more step at a Grand Slam and win a title. 

 Q. With Justine not in such good form, do you feel this is now your time and you can start making up some of the gap?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Definitely maybe gives me more opportunities. But at the other hand, there a lot of other players that are playing extremely well at the moment. In these tournaments like Berlin and Rome the field is very strong and there are many players that are coming back to the top of the game, and lots of young players as well. 
 So on that hand it's also even more difficult. But I just want to focus on my own game and things I have to do. I know if I can concentrate on my own game and things I been working hard on and just playing like I been practicing I have a good chance to achieve the goals I set. 

 Q. Do you have any doubt about Justine as the real No. 1 of the world, or even Serena or Sharapova can be there? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Justine definitely earned her position very well. She's been playing amazing tennis last year and won lots its tournaments. She definitely deserve that position. A lot of players are aiming to catch up with her, so it's, for sure, very, very tough to remain in that position. 
 Like I was talking before, there are a lot of other girls that are playing much better. Like the Williams sisters and Sharapova, they're playing more tournaments. I think it's very exciting at the moment in women's tennis. 

 Q. How difficult it was for you this year to switch from court to clay? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: It took some time obviously, especially with the movement. That's the hardest part to transfer. You know, starting to slide again actually and adjusting that you actually have more time. 
 For me, the biggest transfer is to realize that probably I can't make as many winners as I can on hard court and just be patient. So, yeah, that's something I worked on. And also off the court I worked a lot with my fitness coach on that specific movement. 
 Obviously you go through some muscle pains in that transfer, but it's getting better. Obviously last week I had couple of the matches, so I'm feeling better. 

 Q. Last year Jankovic won the tournament here in Rome and you made the finals in a Grand Slam. What is better from the point of view of a player: Would you rather win the tournament or be maybe second, runner-up in a Slam? What gives you more satisfaction?
 ANA IVANOVIC: It's very hard question. Obviously a title is a title, and you want to have as many as you can. 
 But then at a Grand Slam obviously you want to try to participate the best you can. It's the biggest tournament of the year, so I really want to do well. So a final is definitely a good success as well.

 Q. Pick one. 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Sorry? 

 Q. Pick one of the two. 
 ANA IVANOVIC: I think title probably, yeah. 

 Q. What do you like doing in Rome that you don't do in other cities that makes it your favorite city?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Sightseeing. It's beautiful city and so historical. Yesterday I had the day off, so I had chance to go a little bit walk in the city and just see all these places that exist for thousands and thousands of years. It's just amazing. I always get such emotional thrill to be there. 
 This morning I was fortunate to have photo shoot at Pantheon, which a great location as well. So, yeah, I just -- when I have as much time, you know, to also do that side of things, because you don't get chance to see that anywhere else. 

 Q. Most players say that they like Italy for different reasons, like you. But then when they have to buy a house they do it in America. Where would you like to buy your house once you finish to play? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: I'm not sure about America; it's quite far away. But maybe -- I like sea, so definitely somewhere on the coast. But I would like it to be in Europe because then I'm close to my family, because I'm very close with them and I have a big one. 

 Q. Can I ask you about Wimbledon? I think you've lost to the winner the last two years. Do you think you have been little unlucky with the draw? And considering it as a Grand Slam, do you think that you have as good a chance as the other three?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Considering the draw, I always -- you know, there is obviously always -- you can have a little bit better or worse draw, but at the end of the day it's a little bit balanced up. 
 If you want to win a tournament you have to beat any player no matter who it is. I don't think I was that unlucky. It was good feeling to have that you at least lost to the girl that was in good form and actually won the tournament. 
 Hopefully next time it will be me to actually win the title. 

 Q. When you are used to clay, is it as much fun playing on clay as hard court for you, or not?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I think it is. And it can be even more fun because the rallies are longer and you have more chance to build the point up and to have nice long rallies and points and try a few different things.
 Yeah, you know, you can move your opponent or be moved. Also many times you can see, especially on clay, from being in defensive situation you come to be in offensive position just because you have more time to get to the ball. 
 So I think it's much more exciting to play on clay. 

 Q. You're moving much faster this year than last year. That depends on your work and also on the kilos that you may have lost. Can you tell me if you go on a diet and how many kilos you lost? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: That's not a question to ask women. He doesn't know that. No, but... 

 Q. I just need to know it. 
 ANA IVANOVIC: You want tips? No, definitely I take is as compliment. I put a lot hard work off the court on my fitness and did a lot of different stuff beginning from running to weights and specific movements. My fitness coach did a great job and made it a lot of fun with me with the work we did
 So I didn't go on any special diet or anything. Just basically a lot of hard works and, yeah, it paid off. 
 And about kilos, I don't believe in that. You gain muscle and you lose body fat, so it evens up. 

 Q. Not in my case. (Laughter.)
 ANA IVANOVIC: Come practice with me. 

 Q. I'd like that. 
 ANA IVANOVIC: I have session afterwards, so if you want to join... 

 Q. Did you follow the elections at all in Serbia? What was your reaction?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, yes, obviously I did. I heard some news last night, so, you know, I was happy to hear this news. But like I was talking before, I'm really not much involved in politics and don't know much about it, so I prefer not to talk much about it. 

 Q. If you got into the situation at Roland Garros next month, if you were in the final again against Justine, do you think you would handle that situation better than you did last year?
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yes. I'm very certain of it. Especially that experience last year was great for me. Being in final of Australian Open this year I already notice a huge difference in my game and feelings I had on the court. So for sure it would be a lot different situation. 

 Q. Is there a player which is not in the top 10 which you like how she plays and you are convinced she will become very strong? 
 ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah. There are a lot of young players coming up. I think Vaidisova, she was already in top 10, and I think she has good potential come back to the top. 
 And Krajicek, she is talented and she has a big serve, so, yeah, I think she also has good potential. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT