PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 18, 2008
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  You told us about, dancing, you didn't like your dancing skills that much.   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  No, I don't have very good dancing skills, but I would love to -- I think it's really nice.  If you can dance, I think it looks good, really nice.   
 My relatives, she's talented, she's a great dancer, and she also have very good voice, she sings very well.  I wish I had her talent.   
  
  Q.  You want to talk about that match a little bit?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, it was a tough match.  I think we both played really good tennis.  In the first set I had quite a few miss-hits, which were a little bit disappointing.  But, still, I thought I fought pretty well.   
 In that second set I started playing little bit better.  Obviously holding my serve was the key in that second set, and she really didn't drop her level much.   
 I had that chance in that game when she was serving on 5-All, and we had one really good point at 15-Love for her, and then she made two double faults.  I just saw my opportunity, and I was really happy I could win that game and hold my serve.   
 And then the third set I think I just basically played point by point and didn't think, you know, about the final score too much.  I knew I had to work hard for each point, and I did that well.  So I was really happy about that.   
  
  Q.  It's been kind of a tough tournament for you.  You had the three setter the first match, too.   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, but I think today's match was a lot different than the first round one, especially the first round was so windy that, you know, it's very hard to judge.   
 But today I think was great quality tennis, especially in that third set.   
  
  Q.  What did you talk about with Sven after the second set?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, obviously we have great communication, and, you know, he first let me express my feelings, and then he gives me some advice.  He said, you know, I told him I start to feel better on the court and start to be more dominant and he said, Yeah, you're just fighting great.  Just keep doing that.  Make her play more balls and try to be more aggressive, and I did that well, so I was really happy.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT