PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 15, 2008
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  You looked a little upset when you got broken to end the second set.  What was going through your mind?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, I wasn't really happy, you know, the way I played, and especially conditions were very tough.  That first match, it's always, you know, you know you're going to struggle here and there.   
 I was really upset when she broke me back on 3-2 in the second set, and I just struggled to find my game little bit.  I wasn't moving enough, and when it's windy day we really have to focus on footwork and moving the feet, and going around the ball, and I didn't do that well.  So it was really frustrating.   
  
  Q.  And then the third set you find the game, changed the game or adjusted the game?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah.  I calmed down a little bit.  I was very upset and very emotional in the second set, and in the third set I just did what I should have done, you know, from the beginning.  Just being aggressive and staying low and moving around the ball.   
  
  Q.  Is that kind of a thing for you, is controlling your emotions during a match?  Is that kind of a key for you?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, it is.  I think I'm improving.  Obviously I haven't played so many matches lately, so I was really looking forward, you know, to getting into the tournament slowly.  She had a match behind her, and obviously, yeah, I had all of this match practice.   
 So that was a little bit missing for me today, but I'm just happy to win these kind of matches.   
  
  Q.  But overall, are you happy with the way you played, or are you disappointed with...   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  The third set I think I played really well, and I did exactly what I supposed to do.  It's hard to judge your game in such conditions, because when it's so windy it becomes who is mentally stronger and who can move and work better with the things you got.  Obviously you're not going to hit a perfect shots in these conditions.   
 Overall, I'm happy just to be through and have opportunity to play better the next match.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel your mental game has gotten better over the last couple of years?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  I think so.  And especially second half of 2007 and now beginning of 2008, I feel that's the area where I improved the most.  Obviously that gives me a lot of confidence and something, you know, to -- that I know I can fall back on.   
  
  Q.  How are you able to make that improvement?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  I think just by playing matches.  I spoke a lot with my coaches, and they give me some advises.  I went through so many tournaments and matches and different situations, and that's something -- and also in the practice.  That's something that gives you confidence and gives you something, you know, you can learn from, and I think that's what I've done.   
  
  Q.  We deal with those conditions, too.   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  I think we going to see a lot of players in the shopping center buying warm jackets.   
  
  Q.  What words of advice were you given at the end of that second set?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Just to move my feet, basically, and that worked well.  Because I was a little bit upset and anxious, and I just -- move around the ball and finish my shots.  That's exactly what I needed to do, so I was really happy from basically first moment on I could do that and put pressure on her.   
 That first game was really important, and when I broke her I felt she got down on herself, and I just used the momentum.   
  
  Q.  Do you have much a relationship with Monica Seles?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Unfortunately not much, but we went to dinner once, and then we met a few times.  I'm looking forward to seeing her in Miami.  She told me last time that she would love to play with me, so if she'll be in Miami I hope I get a chance to hit with her.   
  
  Q.  You know she's going to be on this big show?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  I know, and I admire her for that, too.  Because I love dancing, but I'm just hopeless at it.  So I admire her for that.   
  
  Q.  Good athlete like you hopeless?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  I know.  I just have no rhythm at all.  I don't know what happened.  (laughter.)   
  
  Q.  We talked to Novak about the Olympics, and you can tell us what is exactly going on.  Somebody said that you would recommend him to carry the flag, and then he said, after the question he said, Well, and then she will win the medal.  What would you like more:  Win the medal, carry the flag, or both?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  To win the medal, yes, for sure.  Definitely it's a great opportunity if you can hold the flag for your country.  But anyway, just being there, you're presenting your country.  I think winning medal is little bit more exciting.   
  
  Q.  You're seeded 1 here.  How do you feel now that you've become kind of more a little bit more the hunted than the hunter?  How do you deal with that now?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  That's new experience for me, and that's also something, you know, I look forward to experiencing and working on it and just improving, as well.   
 Because now I feel that a lot of players are motivated to play against me much more than before.  They go out there and they have nothing to lose.  They go for their shots, and many times they play good matches.   
 That's obviously something I learned, and in the past as well.  It's just important -- obviously there comes more pressure, but it's just important to recognize the pressure, and see for what it is.   
 And, you know, most of the time it's just reflection of your own ambition and what you want to achieve.   
 So I think, you know, I'm working hard on that, to handle that kind of pressure, and I just want to enjoy each match I play.   
  
  Q.  Out of interest, where has been the strongest wind you've ever experienced in tournament play?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, last couple of weeks and months have been really hard, and Doha was extremely windy.  And probably this was the second worst I've played on.   
  
  Q.  I understand you enjoy learning language and you're learning Spanish.  How's that going for you?  (Speaking Spanish.)   
ANA IVANOVIC:  I'm trying.  It's definitely something I'm interested in, and I try to improve.  But I have quite some passive knowledge, but in the conversation it's a little bit hard.  But if I read, I can understand quite a lot.   
  
  End of FastScripts…  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT