AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2008
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q.  In your opening match you said you panicked a bit, but since then you showed no signs of nervousness.  Were you feeling comfortable there? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, definitely.  The other match I had in the second round, I thought I really played well and, it gave me a lot of confidence,  you know. 
 Also, coming into today's match, I knew she was a tough opponent and I just had to keep my composure and fight for every point, and that's -- yeah, that's exactly what I did today. 
 I think this was a big step and good win for me today. 

 Q.  How important was the crowd? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  It's important.  It's great.  We have lot of Serbian supporters out here and also other fans are great supporters as well.  I really enjoy coming out here and playing in front of Aussie crowds. 

 Q.  Does it give you momentum, do you think? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  It does.  It helps you get to your adrenaline kicking in a bit and gives a lot of confidence. 

 Q.  Was that the best you've played so far this tournament, today? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, I played really well, and I was serving very well.  That was -- that was a big point today, because she was serving extremely well, especially in the second set.  I was happy to get an early break and get my serve in. 

 Q.  Are you feeling pretty confident now about the rest of the tournament? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, yeah, definitely.  I just -- these kind of matches give you lots of confidence.  She played really good tennis today.  And I thought it was really good tennis from both of us.  It definitely gives me confidence coming into next round, but, you know, I just don't want to get overexcited about it. 
 I'm really happy to reach the second week here, and I just want to try to keep the level up, you know, see how far I can go. 

 Q.  It's your first time in the second week here.  Is that a bit of a milestone for yourself? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah.  You know, as you already mentioned, I was really nervous in the first round.  I tried to find my game, and struggle a bit, but since then I really tried to focus on each point separately and not to think too much emotionally about it. 
 I really performed well and I'm really happy to reach the second week, because that was my goal coming into this tournament. 
 But, you know, now, everything is possible.  I had good wins and my serve is getting better, and I just want to keep this level. 

 Q.  Was there anything that you'd like to improve on, or were you happy with the way everything's clicked? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, I think today I played pretty well.  All my game was working well. 
 That's something definitely that's positive.  I'm really happy to see my serve helping me a lot, because I worked off-season a lot on it, and in the first, second round, I didn't think I was serving as well as I could. 
 Today, also might be a little bit because the roof was closed so conditions were a little bit faster and I could get more free points off it. 
 But it's definitely all positive signs, and tomorrow I have a good day off.  My possible next opponents, they have to play tomorrow.  I'm definitely in a better position. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT