AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2008
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  How do you feel about that match?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, definitely I'm very happy, obviously.  I was a little bit nervous going onto the, you know, first-time night session Grand Slam.  It was also a little bit windy in the beginning.  But I tried to focus, you know, moving my feet, getting around the ball and just committing to my shots.   
 So I was really happy the way I started and also the way I handled the match.  I'm pleased with my performance.   
  
  Q.  How important to get through in pretty quick time?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, that was definitely important, saving some nerves for later on.  I mean, she's not an easy opponent, so I knew if I gave her chances, she could come back.  So I just tried to focus on my service game in that second set.  I managed to hold my service in the last game, which I thought was really important.   
  
  Q.  I think you played much better than the first game.  Do you agree with that?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, definitely.  You know, I learned something from that first match.  Today I tried to focus more on my game, be a little bit less emotional, just committing more to my shots.  I was really happy with the result.  And I really hope I can keep this level for the next games.   
  
  Q.  What do you think of your next opponent?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, we had a tough match last week.  Obviously she has some wins under her belt, too.  It's gonna be tough match, that's for sure.   
 But, you know, I really want to focus on my game and try to enjoy it like I did tonight and just, yeah, hope for the best.  But definitely I have chances.   
  
  Q.  Do you think she will try to get something out of her coach that can help her?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, maybe, but, you know, we all watch each other's matches a bit.  If she watched the match today, she could see some things, if she could.   
 You know, I don't want to think about that.  I have my own game plan and the way I want to focus and prepare for that match.  But, as I said, you know, I have nothing to hide.  I just want to be aggressive and play my game.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT