U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2016
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. ALLERTOVA/A. Ivanovic   
7-6, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What do you think made the difference in the tiebreak today?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Probably confidence.  You know, I had that set point, you know, and I went for my big forehand and it was quite a bad miss because I was a little bit in two minds what to do with it.   
I think it was just, yeah, a little bit of confidence at that moment to close out the set.   
 Q.  How important is it then for you to continue to keep going for it if maybe you're not feeling as confident as you should feel?  
ANA IVANOVIC: I think that's what happened in the second set.  I tried to go less for it because I tried to make less errors, basically, and I ended up making more.   
It was really hard to find the balance between striking and staying in the points.  A lot of times in the second set my ball was dropping short of my backhand and she was in control.   
 Q.  How disappointing is it second year in a row going out first round?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, it is very disappointing.  You want to try and do best at the biggest events.  I really felt I did everything I could.  It is very, very sad.   
 Q.  What do you attribute it to?  
ANA IVANOVIC: I mean, it's a lot of things.  Also, my wrist inflamed again.   
Yeah, it's just like I talked about, you know, confidence in these important moments throughout the matches.  I feel like I put myself in a position to close out the set or, you know, a break, and then I don't.   
This is what has been really frustrating, so this is something that I really have to reassess and work on.   
 Q.  You have been at the height of the women's game.  How hungry are you to get back and attain that level?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Of course that's what we work for.  I really feel like I have a talent to do that.  You know, there is a lot of hard work and a lot of health as well involved.  This is what I need to do.   
I feel like I have been putting a lot of work on court and in the gym over the year.  It's been very frustrating not getting anything in return, because I really feel like I invested my heart and also the work.   
You know, it's really disappointing in that way, so I really have to try and, you know, stay a little bit positive even if it's very hard.   
 Q.  Where do you feel like you are emotionally and mentally?  This has been I think a struggle of a year on court for you.  A lot has happened off the court.  But do you feel like you have to step back and re-evaluate things?  
ANA IVANOVIC: I think so.  You know, it's been very frustrating that throughout the year I felt like my forehand has actually been letting me down, and that's something that's my biggest strength.   
I really feel like I have to, yeah, reassess, because like I said, I have been putting so many hours on court and in the gym in particular trying to get my body healthy.   
Last year I ended up with very, very bad back, and this year it hasn't been coming back because I worked so hard at it.  It's just like I said, I haven't been really rewarded for my hard work.   
This is something that I have to sort of accept it and, you know, try to actually see why is that happening, you know, and what I can do differently.   
 Q.  Going back both to that answer and to the prior answer, when you said you'd step back, reassess, and address it, reassessing is easy.  How do you actually address it?  How do you fix that?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Well I spoke with my team, What should I do?  What can you do differently?  You know, it's sometimes maybe there are new answers.   
I try to really play a lot more matches leading up to the US Open, sparring matches, because that's what I felt I miss.  This is maybe something I have to keep at, and then hopefully that can turn it around, sort of get that confidence in the big, important points.   
 Q.  You're not thinking about walking away from it, though, are you?  
ANA IVANOVIC: No, not at all.  I just need to really see why is this happening, you know.  Because, I mean, I had struggles throughout my career; I had some tough times.  This is not the first time I'm going through this.   
It just hurts because I know what I invested.   
 Q.  Sometimes in sports they talk about the concept of wanting it too much.  Seems like in theory maybe a difficult thing to think about.  Is that something you feel like you have ever struggled with?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, all the time.  I feel like I have potential and game, but it hasn't really been coming together.  Like I said, it's not like I don't work.  I really put a lot of hard work.  I had four people traveling with me trying to make sure I'm on the right path and doing the right things.   
Before when I traveled with one or two persons I was doing much better.  You know, these other things that can I have these are the things I have to think about.   
 Q.  When you said you dealt with doubt in the past and you have had struggles and successes, what do you remember from those periods to get out of that?  
ANA IVANOVIC: It was a process.  It was a process.  Nothing happens overnight.  You really have to keep at it and keep pushing and having the right approach, day-to-day basis, for it to turn around.   
You know, I remember in 2014 when I had a great year.  It took me five to six months to actually get in the right shape physically and mentally to be able to do that and to back myself up.   
 Q.  It's also more difficult, isn't it, when your seeding starts to fall you start to play tougher players?  
ANA IVANOVIC: This actually I don't really consider, because it's always a tough draw, so for me doesn't matter.   
 Q.  Your husband is having a big night tomorrow.  Will you be able to watch that special night with him or will you meet afterwards?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, unfortunately I can't make it there.   
 Q.  On TV?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Definitely.   
 Q.  Will you meet here afterwards or...  
ANA IVANOVIC: No.  Let's see how my wrist goes and what the next plans are.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT