WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2015
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 B. MATTEK‑SANDS/A. Ivanovic
  6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Was it a match that you expected to win?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, you know, every match you step on the court, you want to do the right things.   You hope you're going to win.   But you never know for sure.   We see so many upsets all the time.   
I knew it was going to be a tough match because we had close ones in the past.   I knew that grass was her favorite surface.   She played really well today.   
I thought the more important points, even sometimes when I had break chances or 30‑Love up, she came up with amazing shots.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned before the tournament that grass is one of those surfaces where everything happens so fast, things get out of hand.   In this match, how would you describe how it went for you?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   She was aggressive.   She was coming in a lot.   I thought she was hitting lot of winners off forehand side actually.   She made some errors, but there was not really a rhythm out there, you know, for example, like I had in my first match.   I kind of expected that.   She played well.   She served well.   
Yeah, she definitely did a lot of good things today.   
   
 Q.   You started the season with a few injuries and have been battling.   Where are you fitness‑wise?   Are you back to 100%?   Still dealing with things?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   You know, like, before French, I spoke about this.   I changed my team a little bit.   My fitness wasn't at all at the level I wanted it to be.   In French I really worked hard and tried to get level up.   I played really well.   
Since then I've been working really, really hard.   I felt like I improved a lot.   Also I was working a lot throughout the tournaments.   
Actually now I'm looking forward to have some time off and do proper preparation because that's what I've been lacking.   I've been playing catch‑up in that area since a while.   I have lots of changes within the team.   Now I feel like I have solid base.   
But I just need time to first rest, refresh, and then work hard for it.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk a little bit about that, how difficult it is as a tennis player to rebuild a fitness base throughout the season when you're constantly on the road playing tennis.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   That's the hardest part.   You actually really need some weeks off where you can build it up.   I was even thinking in clay court season to skip some tournaments to do that.   But it's hard because you have mandatory events, big events that you want to compete at.   I had lots of points to defend as well.   I didn't want to miss out on those.   
I really felt I did a good job in the French and everything.   Now is just a matter of continuing in this manner.   Throughout the tournaments, it's very, very hard.   You have few windows during the year you can work.   Sort of after Wimbledon, a little bit after Miami if you're not playing Fed Cup or other tournaments.   But definitely tough throughout the season to catch up.   
   
 Q.   It was very striking how good she was around the net.   That must have something to do with the fact she plays doubles regularly.   Do you think that would improve your game?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, for sure, playing matches and being comfortable at the net during the doubles match will improve.   Also the other hand, you see the court differently when you play singles.   That's what I prefer.   
I knew she was going to come in a lot.   That's what I meant when I said grass court was her favorite surface because obviously the ball skids a lot more.   When you come forward, the ball has much more weight on it.   
   
 Q.   You just finished the match, do you have any idea how much time off you're going to take, what you're going to do to start preparing?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   No, not really.   That's what I have to discuss with my coach.   
Like I mentioned, I really feel like I need this preparation block.   That's why I'm not going to start anywhere in America before Toronto, so really trying to get that block happening, try to give enough time to myself to rest also.   I really feel like I've been going on for a while.   
Yeah, that will be the goal.   
   
 Q.   When someone is hitting a lot of winners like she was, is there part of you hoping she'll run out of steam eventually; if you hang in there long enough you'll be able to come back into the game?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Sometimes you do hope.   But, you know, today I really felt like I tried to sort of make more shots.   Then I felt like she was hitting winners.   When I was aggressive, I managed to get her on a back foot and create some errors for her.   Again, that was a little bit of risky play.   It's kind of Catch‑22.   
Today I think I played a little too passive at the beginning.   She got off to a good start which give her confidence and I think that's what made the difference in the end.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT