U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2007
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 

 Q.  Looked pretty easy out there today.  Was it as easy as it looked? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Definitely I'm really happy with the result today.  She's tough opponent.  She played good last couple of matches, so I expected a tough match out there. 
 But I was really happy with the result.  It's always nice to get through like this.  I played some good tennis. 

 Q.  You're doing well, have a big following here.  Do you see this tournament as a way to becoming a household name such as Maria Sharapova?  Do you see that as a goal of this tournament? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, it's definitely one of the important tournaments.  Especially it's American, it's a big market. 
 But I'm on the court, I don't think in that direction.  I focus on my tennis.  My manager is here to do a job in that part.  But I would definitely enjoy to do some stuff also besides tennis. 

 Q.  Earlier Djokovic was talking about growing up together, with you being in the same generation.  Can you talk about coming up through the ranks with him, seeing how well he's doing. 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, it's very exciting.  We knew each other before we started playing tennis.  It's amazing to see him now at the Grand Slams, playing so well.  First time when we were still playing juniors, it was already a big thing for us, especially tennis at that time wasn't so popular back home.  Now seeing him doing so well, it's motivation for me. 
 It's really great to have someone to catch up that I know so good.  He had a tough match today.  It was amazing win for him.  I think it was tough draw, but he went through it. 

 Q.  You knew each other before tennis? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah. 

 Q.  How is that? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, with my family, I went on holidays in the mountain in Serbia.  We just went into a restaurant for lunch.  I think, my father knew his uncle.  They went to school together.  He has his uncle, yeah, he was there.  We met.  We played on the swings, how you call this, on the slide.  15 years later we are here, we are playing something different. 

 Q.  You haven't defeated Venus yet to date.  Do you look forward to the chance of possibly playing her next round to try to get the first one against her? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, definitely.  We had tough matches before.  Last one was in Wimbledon recently.  She was in a great shape.  She's also playing good at the moment. 
 We had tough matches, but definitely I think I have chances.  I'm looking forward to that match because I think I'm in a good shape.  I feel good on the court.  It will be exciting to play against her. 

 Q.  When was the first time you saw her play in a Grand Slam on television? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Oh, I remember actually I played juniors in Paris.  I don't know how many years ago was that.  Was maybe five, six years ago.  And I remember I was in a junior locker room, and she came in there.  I think she played on Suzanne Lenglen.  I have picture actually with her, with another friend.  It's amazing now I have opportunity to play against her. 
 One of my very first big matches was against her in Zurich on a Tier I tournament. 

 Q.  Where is that picture? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  It's in my home.  I have it. 

 Q.  On the wall? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  No.  It's somewhere with all the pictures from tennis. 

 Q.  Do you have any sense of how much people in Belgrade are following this tournament?  Is it on television?  Every match?  Radio?  Do you have any idea? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, when I speak to my friends after matches, with my father or brother, they tell me that all people are calling them, everyone is following.  They broadcast over TV, yeah, Internet, radio, everything. 
 For example, today I played after Novak, so they had all afternoon and night of tennis.  They have Jankovic and Tipsarevic coming up.  It's exciting.  Everyone is following.  It's now a big thing.  I think all nation is watching tennis. 

 Q.  Did you have any contact with Tipsarevic at all when you were younger? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, actually we grew up playing in the same club.  So I know him.  I remember when he has nine, ten, he was a big star.  He was later on ranked No. 1 junior.  I always looked up to him when we were practicing in the same club. 

 Q.  Have you actually had contact with Venus?  I know you asked for a picture.  Was she nice about it?  Have you spoken longer than that? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  No, just the picture.  Actually I wasn't the one asking for a picture.  It was my friend, she asked.  She was, like, Let's take it together.  I was like, Yeah, good.  That was the only thing. 

 Q.  Your friend was a tennis player as well? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah.  Actually it was Sanja Ancic, the sister of Mario. 

 Q.  Do you admire what she and Serena have done off the court as well as on the court? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, definitely, they're both great champions.  They won so many Grand Slam titles.  I think they took tennis to another level.  They were the first one who were powerful on the court and changed the game a little bit.  So that's very exciting for today's game. 
 They are still on the top. 

 Q.  What about their love of fashion, what they're doing outside of tennis? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  I think it's like every girl, every woman, she likes the fashion.  I'm not surprised they're enjoying it, as well. 

 Q.  You're smiling a lot, seem to be pretty relaxed.  Are you enjoying this tournament as much as it seems? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, yeah, definitely.  It's a Grand Slam, so it's a very important tournament for everyone.  This is the furthest I got here, so I'm very excited about that. 
 Also I have, I think, pretty good chance in the next round.  It's a tough draw, but I'm playing well at the moment, so I have all the reasons to be happy. 

 Q.  Do you feel like you're at your best right now? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, definitely.  I improved a lot.  Also since Wimbledon.  I'm really excited.  I'm looking forward for next challenges.  I feel good on the court.  So that's definitely a plus. 

 Q.  In the press conferences you're very smiley, kind, sweet.  On the court, do you kind of change your personality? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  I think I'm still the same person, but I'm just focused and I'm fighting for each point.  Of course, I'm serious and trying to do the best I can. 
 But still inside I'm the same person. 

 Q.  The other night you were working as a journalist as well at the Wilson party. 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  It was exciting.  It was the first time I did something like that.  Tennis Channel asked me to do a feature with me, so I accepted.  Also during the night, I was going around and interviewing a few people.  I got interview with Roger.  That was great. 

 Q.  What did you ask him? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  I asked him about New York, how much he's enjoying party.  I was actually very surprised to find out that he enjoys shopping. 

 Q.  Is Roger Federer a good interview? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, yeah, he was a lot of fun.  I felt weird asking him questions.  But it was something different.  He was really good actually. 

 Q.  He's aware of your career and your success? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yes. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT