U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2007
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions.   
  
  Q.  You started out the match kind of slow.  You got broken in the first game.  Seemed early on you were questioning a lot of calls.  Did you feel off this morning?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, it was a very slow start for me.  It was first match, center court.  I was a little bit nervous.  She was obviously tough player to play against.   
 I was going a little bit for too much, meaning I was going too much for the lines in the beginning of the first set especially.  So there was a lot of close calls, especially my serve in the first game they were all very close to the lines.   
 I guess I saw them also very close because I was nervous.  Then as the match went on I got a little bit in the rhythm and took my opportunities.   
  
  Q.  What did it mean to be on Arthur Ashe Stadium?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  It was amazing.  It was only my second time playing there.  Last year against Serena was the first time.  Obviously that's the biggest stadium we have playing tennis.  It was a great feeling, great atmosphere.   
 Obviously first match it's never easy playing there, but I tried to take the best I can.  It was great experience because maybe in the future rounds I'll have opportunity to play there again.  Having already one match behind me, it's great.   
  
  Q.  Some players really love the experience of playing in New York, and others like Justine will say, It's not my favorite Grand Slam.   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  It's tough.  I find it also very hard because there is lot of travelling, lot of people.  Everyone is trying to talk to you.  You spend maybe more time in the center than you would do in Paris or Wimbledon.   
 But it's definitely great atmosphere.  It's different.  It's many people.  Once you're on the court, it builds you up and gives you energy to play harder.   
 So definitely trying to enjoy it as much as I can.  On the end of the day it's a Grand Slam, so you want to play the best you can.   
  
  Q.  Is it important to you to see yourself become well-known to the American fans here?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Definitely that would be very exciting, because America is such a huge market, such a huge country.  But when I'm on the court I don't think in that direction.  I just play for myself and try to perform the best I can.  That's all I'm concerned about when I'm on the court.   
  
  Q.  What were your feelings when you first got to New York about what you had to do to be successful?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  When I came here I had, unfortunately or not, quite a long time to prepare for this tournament.  I took my time and tried to practice twice a day.   
 I was actually very lucky that I was here earlier so I can practice on center court, on Louis Armstrong, all these big courts.  That was great opportunity for me.   
 I just try to enjoy city a little bit more, try to go shopping, spend some time around.  I really appreciate that.   
  
  Q.  Did you feel like your game was at the point when you got here where you thought you could make a big statement?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, coming into tournament my goal is to play better than I did last year, to reach the second week, because I never did that here.  So that was my first goal.   
 But it's definitely a lot of tough opponents in my part of the draw, so I just want to try to play the best I can.   
 But I feel very good physically and also mentally, and I think I'm playing well at the moment.  So I just want to enjoy that and try to do the best I can.   
  
  Q.  Have you been recognized a lot more in New York compared to last year and after your last two Grand Slams?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, I can notice difference.  Last night going for dinner a couple of people came to me and said, Oh, good luck tomorrow.  It's like, Thanks.  So it was actually amazing to have that experience.   
  
  Q.  Earlier in the year when you were here you said a fan asked you to sign his underwear.  Have you had any sort of similar requests?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, actually yesterday when I was signing autographs after practice, the guy asked me to sign his forehead.  I was like, Are you kidding (laughter)?   
  
  Q.  Did you sign it?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  No, I didn't.  I felt bad for him walking with a sign.  I say, I can sign your ball or shirt, but forehead?   
  
  Q.  A lot of players want to take it match by match.  You've said much the same.  You have one match ahead and then it could be Venus.  In a lot of ways things are speeding up for you here, huh?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, it's not a big secret that this part of the draw is much harder.  There's many good players.  Also hopefully I can win my next match and then play against Venus again.  We had tough one in Wimbledon just few months ago.   
 I would really be excited to play against her.  I never beat her.  But I think this is different tournament, different circumstances.  I am feeling even fitter than I was in Wimbledon.  So I would really like to play against her.  I definitely have chance.   
  
  Q.  Can you go back over the reception you had in June in Belgrade.   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  It was amazing because they never did such a reception for individual athlete.  It was always for a team sport.  So that's something I'll never forget.  When I was a kid I went there to welcome volleyball and basketball players.  It was me standing up on the terrace.  It was really amazing feeling.   
 As I said, I will remember that through whole my life.  And also now tennis, it's becoming one of the major sports back home.  Wherever so we go we get recognized.   
  
  Q.  Are you involved in the growth of tennis there?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  I heard they want to build some more stadiums and more sports facilities.  That's definitely a big step that we need to make in order for our tennis to grow, because there is so many kids practicing at the moment but there is not enough courts.  I really hope by building these stadiums it will help for kids to have better facilities for practicing.   
 Also we are very talented nation and we have good coaches.  I'm sure there is lot of kids who gonna come up.   
  
  Q.  Do you anticipate returning to Serbia when you are finished playing tennis?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  You never know where life going to take you.  At the moment I just enjoy what I'm doing.  I don't think too much.  I think I'm still young and have many years in front of me.  I don't still think about settling down.   
 But it's definitely one of options because I grew up there and that's where all my family is and I have so many relatives and friends also.  It would be nice to go back there.   
  
  Q.  Serbian tennis is the big story this year.  Does Novak and Jelena's success on court add pressure to you to do well?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  No, it kind of motivates me because they are both great players and they both achieved so much.  I just see it as motivation to do even better and to play better than them, to maybe go one step further.  That's definitely a positive thing.   
 But I think they are in the same situation.  So I think it's great for all of us.  And also Tipsarevic, he can see us doing well and that's also for him very motivating.   
  
  Q.  From all the places you have visited, is there any special place you would like to come back but you can't because now you're playing?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  There is many places.  Really, that's the part of tennis that I really like.  It's travelling, seeing different countries, meeting different cultures.  I really enjoy that part of my job.   
 I love Australia.  I always look forward to coming back there.  Yeah, Barcelona, I enjoy being there as well, because I like sea and beach.  It's really tough to say.  But I know there is lot of beautiful places in this world.   
  
  Q.  The event in June, you were in a stadium or on a balcony?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  We were on a balcony in the center of the city, like a big square.  It's parliament building with a big terrace.  We went on the terrace.   
  
  Q.  How many people do you think showed up to see you?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Maybe 10,000, 15,000.  It was very nice to see because most of them were very young, so it was nice to see that kind of people are attracted to tennis.   
  
  Q.  You used to be one of the kids in the crowd yourself?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yes.  When basketball players were coming, with my family I used to go there, just welcome them.  That's what I used to do before.   
  
  Q.  Krstic of the Nets was here watching you.   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  That's nice.  I really like basketball.  My father was a basketball player.  I enjoy watching that.  Actually, I never watch NBA game live, so I would like to do it.   
  
  Q.  What's your coaching situation?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Sven Groenefeld from adidas is helping me still.  I really enjoy working with him.  It's great to have him because he's so experienced, and we also communicate well, and that's always important for any relationship.  I really hope he can help me go further as well.   
  
  Q.  He's here?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  He's here, yes.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT