WIMBLEDON
July 5, 2007
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Ana. 

 Q.  Are you more surprised for the final reached in Paris or the semifinal reached here? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, both were really surprising for me.  Today I still probably haven't realized what happened.  It was unbelievable match.  She played very well. 
 I mean, it was my first time on the Centre Court.  To win like this was amazing, so I'm really, really exciting about my win today. 

 Q.  The first time on Centre Court, did it strike you how far you've come since the swimming pool? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, for sure a lot.  I was really intimidated when I first stepped on the court.  It was very exciting because I played center court in Paris, in Australia, US Open, but never here.  This was very special tournament for me. 
 Actually to have chance to play on Centre Court, that was already amazing, so I was little bit nervous in the beginning.  Obviously didn't have chance to practice there before. 
 But then as the match went on, I tried to focus on my game more.  It was really good. 

 Q.  What are your thoughts and emotions as you walk onto this court for the first time? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, obviously I was very exciting coming on Centre Court.  It's completely different than any other center court.  Also I wanted to perform well, especially it was my first time.  So that was little bit distracting in the beginning. 
 But then later on I just tried to forget what was happening around me, just to focus on the court and the strokes. 

 Q.  You looked more emotional at the end than you have at the end of some of your previous matches. 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, it was very emotional match today.  She's great player.  She played some really good tennis today.  Was very tough.  I had to fight for every point.  I was a break down in the second set.  I was a break down in the third set.  To come back and win it was amazing for me. 
 Obviously was very emotional.  I wanted to win so much.  I tried to fight for each point individually.  Played some good tennis when it counted the most. 

 Q.  Out of those three match points, which one do you think she should have played better or do you think it was you playing very well, those three? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, the first one I think I played some very good tennis.  I was really aggressive.  The third one, I think it was second serve.  It was a little bit shaky second serve, and I think she missed the return straightaway. 
 Yeah, I think that was probably, yeah, her biggest chance.  But the thing was that, in the third set, even when I was a break down, I just knew I could do it.  I had feeling I could win this match. 
 I think that what made the big difference.  I tried to focus on my serve which didn't work so well thorough the match.  It was times when it was going well and then the no. 
 At the end I tried to focus and take more time on that.  I was really, really happy to save these match points and have chance to break her. 

 Q.  What were you wearing on your knee? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  It was just tape for tracking my knee, because last week when I played on Saturday it was quite slippery out there.  Just for tracking the knee, just as prevention. 

 Q.  Just normal strapping? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Just for tracking the knee.  It's not the full bandage, just to move a little bit. 

 Q.  Was there an injury of some sort? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  No.  It's okay.  It's just prevention.  It also gives a little bit support, so it's good. 

 Q.  How hard is it to play aggressively on match points?  Many young players on match points will play nervous.  The two you took, you played super aggressive. 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, I knew I had to take my chances, because if I gave her an opportunity she would take it.  She played unbelievable match today.  She was really aggressive. 
 The only feeling I had that could make me win this match is if I was even more aggressive and dominating the first. 
 That's what I did so well towards the end of the second set.  I knew I had to keep this game.  When I was these match points down, that was basically the chance I got. 
 I like to take a risk, as well.  I didn't want to wait and see if she's going to make mistake or not; I just wanted to take this in my hand and make the shots. 

 Q.  You said you were nervous at the beginning.  Centre Court, is that what made you nervous? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yes, I started a little bit nervous because, as I said, usually we have a chance to practice on center court before we go on.  But here I didn't have chance and I never played before. 
 It was a very strange feeling when I went on.  But as the match went on, I tried to focus more on my own game. 

 Q.  What is your take on the crowd at Centre Court, the whole Wimbledon experience so far? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  I had great support through all my matches, and today was unbelievable atmosphere, especially towards the end.  I really wanted to perform well here. 
 They give me so much support.  It helps me a lot to relax and to play even better because that motivates me a lot. 

 Q.  Are you surprised by that? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Coming here, I didn't know what to expect.  I can see the difference from last year to this year.  It's been so much more support this year.  I really enjoy it.  The fans are really great here. 

 Q.  Novak is through also.  Serbians have had a fantastic run this year.  Why the breakout this year?  Did they change the water supply? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, I'm so happy for him.  He had very tough match today.  Yeah, it's very hard to say because we are all very young.  Novak and I, we are same age. 
 We still have so many years in front of us.  It all happen really suddenly for Serbian players coming through.  But I think we all have -- we are talented and we have good potential to play at the top level. 
 I think we just have to use our chances.  This is the time for us.  We have confidence.  We just want to win each match we play. 

 Q.  Do you think what you went through as a country has given strength? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  I'm sure it does.  Obviously it motivates us, too, because it was quite tough growing up back home.  Now there is so many young kids playing tennis because of us. 
 For us doing good, it can help them to improve and to have chance and to maybe have little bit easier road than we did.  That's very motivating for us.  We try to do the change as best we can. 

 Q.  Does the story line of it ever amaze you? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yes, it's unbelievable because when I was a kid, obviously I was dreaming of playing Grand Slam, reaching finals and winning it, but it was far from realistic at that time. 
 But then I guess you just go each tournament and play and try to perform the best you can, and then you start winning matches and that gives you confidence. 
 Then being at the Grand Slams, that's already a huge step for us.  Playing at the top level, it's something amazing. 

 Q.  What changed once you came back from Paris in Serbia towards you, towards Djokovic?  Do they write much more about tennis than before? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Every time I go back it's very surprising for me how many people actually follow and how many people know about us.  When we came back from Paris, we had a beautiful ceremony in the center of city.  It was about 10,000 people waiting for us.  It was pretty amazing feeling. 
 It's very exciting for us.  I always hear they support us and they follow our results.  That gives us confidence.  And also wish to prove them we are good. 

 Q.  Thoughts on the semifinal? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  It's going to be very tough match.  Venus is in a great shape.  They played amazingly last couple of matches.  It's going to be very tough. 
 But I have experience.  I played on Centre Court already.  So I just want to go tomorrow and enjoy, try to play the best I can and see who will be better tomorrow. 

 Q.  Being in the final in Paris, then in semifinal here at Wimbledon, totally different conditions, how did you manage to adapt to these new conditions within two weeks? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, it was a little bit tough.  After Paris I needed some time off.  I had few days to relax, then to change my mindset because it's a little bit different game, clay court and grass. 
 But I've been really enjoying my time here, and I feel that each match I played a little bit better.  I'm really exciting to be in the semifinal coming.  Into the tournament I didn't expect that.  I just try to enjoy each match individually. 
 I played some good tennis when it counted the most.  I'm very excited about tomorrow's match. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT