WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2015
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. IVANOVIC/Y. Xu
  6‑1, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You must be pleased with that.   First match is not always easy.   How do you feel about that?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   You know, like we spoke a few days ago, I really felt early loss in Birmingham gave me time to work on some things.   Even before Birmingham we decided that week we will work on things.
We didn't have time at the time then to have so much practice on grass, but, you know, now coming into this week, I feel like I implemented some things that we worked on, and that really makes me happy.

Q.   Is it tricky playing someone you don't know much about?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   Obviously also she had some matches before, she qualified, and it was tough not knowing what to expect.
But I really tried to focus on my game plan.   I really thought I worked well in that area, and I was really pleased with some tough games that I won.

Q.   In that second set when you had to get the umpire, we couldn't hear all of what you said, but can you talk us through what you said to the umpire?
ANA IVANOVIC:   If you understood everything, I would be surprised because you ask me questions in English, because it was all in Serbian. 
Yeah, obviously I was very disappointed with the decision, because I thought it was my point as I made a winner, and I just could not understand her point of saying we had to replay it.   She said it was late call, but first of all, it wasn't late call.   Second of all, the girl wasn't there, so no matter when the call was made it was still my point.
At the end, you know, she apologized and she said it was too late to change her decision.   But, you know, in these moment, especially it was going for break point for me, it was tough moment in a match. 
I thought it was, you know, a big mistake that could change the circle of the match.   Obviously I was quite upset with that tough call.

Q.   You were really talking at her for quite a long time. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   And this is what I also said to her.   I said, I'm fair player.   I would always say, Okay, we have to replay it. 
But this time I knew I was right.   That's why I wanted and I even asked if I could have a supervisor replay just so we could all see what happened.
She was like, Yeah, no, that's my decision I think, basically.

Q.   This is the second incident today regarding this kind of thing.   We talked about it at the French Open, as well, because Vika and Serena had a similar thing.   So do you think it's a good idea to get a replay in these specific cases to do a replay so someone could weigh in?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   We have Hawk‑Eye, which at the end brings fair play.   Why not do that and then have a third person on the side or fourth person on the side deciding what it was.
Because now today it turned out okay, but sometimes it can be in tough moments, you know, that change completely the circle of the match. 

Q.   You have Bethanie next.   Can you just talk about that matchup. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   It's going to be very different match.   Obviously I'm going to try and prepare the best I think with my coach tomorrow, and it's going to be tough.   I know her for a long, long time.
She loves to play I think on grass, you know, loves to go for her shots.   Her game is a lot like on grass, you know.   Sometimes she can chip and charge.   Sometimes she stays back.   So you really have to be focused and sharp from the first moment on.

Q.   There was a lot of good communication between you and your box.   Looked like you were really enjoying it.   How good is it to have Bastian there and supporting you?
ANA IVANOVIC:   That's a tall question, but to have support from my team, and obviously there has been some changes in my team, it always really helps, because you work hard off the court.   And actually, when I'm competing, it's just execution of what we worked off‑court.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT