WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2007
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Good win.   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yes, I'm very happy about the win today.  It was tough.  We had to stop on Saturday and then continue two days later, but first set I played really good and she also played very good tennis, and I was very excited to win that set because I think we both played great.   
 And today it was important, the first game, and I managed to break her, although she had advantage when we continued.  And that gave me confidence to play better and to relax a little bit more and just enjoy the tennis.   
 I was really happy that I could serve out also very well.   
  
  Q.  Another good atmosphere out on that court.  You must be interested to get in one of the big courts this week.   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, yeah, I'm enjoying my time.  All three matches I played I had a great atmosphere and there was a lot of people supporting me, and that was great.  So I enjoy playing out here, and the crowd and supporters are very good.  Yeah, hopefully tomorrow we can play a good match on a bigger court, but we'll see.   
  
  Q.  You've never played on Centre Court, have you?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  No, not here, Court 1 last year.   
  
  Q.  You've got Petrova in the next round.  How do you see that?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  It's going to be definitely a very tough match because she's a great player, and on grass she has very good potential with her serve and strokes.  She hits pretty hard and very flat serve, so I think it's important for me to keep level and high percentage on my serve and try to put her under pressure on the return and just to move more forward and try to be aggressive and dominate first.   
  
  Q.  And the Serbians march on still at Wimbledon; you're all doing very well?   
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, it's exciting.  It's great seeing all of us getting through.  Actually we are all in different parts of the draw so we have a chance to go far without playing each other, so that would be amazing.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT