AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2007
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  I think you will agree, you didn't quite play your best today. 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  It was tough conditions again.  This morning when I practiced, it was pretty cool.  When I went out there, it decided to be really warm.  The balls were flying.  It was much quicker. 
 She's a very good player.  I mean, she's young, upcoming.  She has not much pressure.  So I think she played very well match today. 
 But I'm really pleased that I took the opportunities I had and could win this match. 

 Q.  At some stages you couldn't hit the ball. 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, it's tough.  Not every match you play great.  But it's important to play good enough to win.  So I'm really pleased that I went through this match. 

 Q.  Was it hot there today? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yes, it was pretty hot.  Probably not like the other day, but still it was tough conditions. 

 Q.  Do you think it's going to be a great year for Serbian tennis? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  I think so.  There are many players coming up, playing very good at the moment.  Jelena is playing better, Djokovic, at this point Tipsarevic. 
 I think Serbian tennis, it's becoming much better.  I think it's very excited for all of us, and also for young kids back home.  I hope that's motivation for them. 

 Q.  I know you knew Novak when you were young.  How much do you see him now? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  It's very tough because we have different tournaments.  Only Grand Slams and couple of others are mixed.  We don't see each other around too much.  But it's always nice to keep in touch.  When we see each other, to catch up. 

 Q.  Has he always been a big talker, somebody who enjoys talking? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah.  I like being social and talking to people. 

 Q.  How much time do you spend in Serbia every year? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Unfortunately not very much.  Probably, yeah, every two months I go there for a couple of days.  It's hard.  I miss going back there. 
 But still, I mean, I enjoy traveling, enjoy what I'm doing.  I think it's balance. 

 Q.  Maybe a month or so a year you're there? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Probably, yes.  Around a month, two months.  Depends. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT