AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2007
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  \  ANA IVANOVIC:  Thank you very much.  I'm really happy to be back here.  It's one of my favorite places so I'm really enjoying my time.  Yeah, I'm really happy the way I played today. 
 I think the first match is always tough, that's for sure, but I'm really happy I could focus on what I have to do and do like I was practicing and moving forward a lot, so I was really pleased with that. 

 Q.  Did you lose concentration or -- 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, I started pretty well.  Broke it twice straight away, then yeah, just my serve percentage went down, which I was not really happy about, but I could focus again, and, yeah, play even better. 

 Q.  It was a very hot day? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yes, conditions were very, very tough.  It was really warm.  But coming here you have to expect some of that, too.  So, yeah, I was just trying to focus on what I have to do, because it's the same for both of us. 

 Q.  Good luck in the next match. 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Thank you. 

 Q.  You've got a strong connection to Melbourne.  You've spent a lot of time here.  Were you surprised, I suppose, by the violence that occurred yesterday outside the courts? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, I think that's not really nice.  I mean, we, as the players, we represent our country and we are great ambassadors for our country. 
 And seeing this, it's not really nice, especially that -- yeah, as sports people we hang out with also Croatians, Serbians.  We're all friends, and I'm very sad to see something like this, and I hope it won't happen again. 

 Q.  Do you have a message to your fellow countrymen? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  If they want to come around and support us, great.  I think it's very nice to have supporters.  But just it's very important to behave and to represent our country in the best possible way. 

 Q.  Has it shocked people behind closed doors what actually happened, tennis players? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, I think for sure.  Because as I said, we really are friends with Croatians, and also they don't mind us.  I think it's very bad that people just want to pick a fight without reason basically.  They are all basically Australians.  They live here. 
 But, yeah, if they want to support us, I think it's great to come and see them coming in -- so many of them, but just no reason for stuff like that. 

 Q.  Were you anxious at all today about playing? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, it's always tough.  I think here they are very extreme.  But, yeah, they were very nice, and today I had a few supporters and they were really good. 
 I think -- I hope it's going to change and it's not going to happen again. 

 Q.  But you weren't nervous at all? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  No, no.  I think it's okay, and hopefully they will learn a lesson, as well. 

 Q.  Can you tell us a little bit your links with Melbourne?  I think you lived here. 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  No, I have relatives here that live in Melbourne.  This is my fifth time here.  I always consider Australia as my favorite country and favorite place to be.  I came last year, and this year, as well, I came quite a bit earlier for preparation here in Australia. 
 Yeah, I always have a very nice time here and always looking forward for the tournament.  It also helps when you're playing a match if you feel good the place you are at.  It helps also playing and performing better. 

 Q.  Given the crowd violence yesterday, did the players have a right to be concerned about their safety? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, probably.  I think that's not going to happen.  But still, you never know if they're going to become aggressive towards us, as well. 
 But, yeah, let's just hope that they learn from this and it doesn't happen again, because it's really -- we are here to play sport and to compete for the benefit of our own country, and I just hope we all learn from this and they come to support us but in a nice way. 

 Q.  Do you feel ready to take a big step in your game this year? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, for sure.  I had very good preparation, and I got much stronger and much fitter, so it's given me some confidence.  But I just want to focus on each match.  Of course I set some goals for myself, to reach the masters, but I have to take it now here today and play each match and try to play as I've practiced, and that's the only way I can improve. 
 There is so many things I still have to improve, and last year I lost here second round.  My goal is to do better than that this year.  Yeah, this match today is going to give me confidence for next ones, but I just want to take it step by step. 

 Q.  What are the things you really need to focus on in order to be successful? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  I think there are many, many things, but the most important is to be more consistent.  And also now I was working a lot on my serve because percentage was not so high, percentage of first serves, so trying to improve that a little bit, which I think I'm going better.  And I changed a little bit technique, so it takes time for timing. 
 But, yeah, for sure I continue to see improvements, which is a very good thing. 

 Q.  What do you think separates you from the best players?  When you play against, say the top five players, what do they do a little bit better? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  I think it's more about consistency.  I still probably play a couple matches good and then not so good.  But I really -- I'm working a lot to improve that and to stay focused and do what I have to do in order to reach that. 

 Q.  So it's more mental than it is technical or physical? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, I think so.  I think so.  Because as I said, I feel that I improved a lot in fitness and in my groundstrokes, as well.  So it's more just staying up there and competing on the top level for quite a few matches. 

 Q.  Do you feel more comfortable at the net than, say, a lot of top players? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  For sure.  I've been trying to come forward much more, and playing aggressive, it gives me a lot of possibilities to come forward.  I want to use that because I think it's very important to give an opponent less time and just to move forward and finish going to the net. 

 Q.  Where do your relatives live here in Melbourne?  And did you stay with them in the past? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yes, before when I was coming for juniors I stayed with them, but they live in Mentone, so it's a little bit further during the tournament to stay there.  But, yes, I stay there, and it's always nice to see them. 

 Q.  Is it an aunt and uncle? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yes, on my father's side. 

 Q.  Did they come today? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yes, they were here today. 

 Q.  Have you spoken with them about yesterday?  Were they at all apprehensive? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  No, I didn't talk to them, but I'm sure they have the same sight.  I know that since they're out here they hang out with the Croatians and Bosnians, so it's just a shame. 

 Q.  You were in the same section of the draw with Sharapova.  If she was to win, what do you think could affect playing out there in the heat for that length of time could be on her chances? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, as I said, my main goal is to focus by each match, but I'm sure this will be a great chance for me.  I played her at the end of last year in Linz and it was a very good match.  Probably it's going to be very exciting if it happens. 
 Yeah, I think I still want to focus because since Wimbledon I haven't played in the second week, so I think it's very important to focus on each match and try to take smaller steps, and then when it comes I'm going to think about it.  But for sure it would be a great moment. 

 Q.  Do you think it would be difficult for her if she -- you know, just the sort of punishment of playing here in this heat?  Is that a problem for her?  Do you think in later matches if she does get through? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, yeah, I think first round it's always tough, and being a good player she runs very well.  It's going to be tough for sure, especially, as you said, in this heat.  But it's good that we always have a day to rest and to practice and to get hydrated again.  I think she'll have enough time to rest. 

 Q.  When you see Jelena Jankovic doing so well, does it motivate you to get better? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  For sure.  She's playing really good at the moment.  She's improved a lot and playing some good tennis, and it's always nice to be a No. 1 ranked player in your country.  But I have higher goals, and for sure it motivates me and I'm sure it's also motivation for young kids, also, to improve. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT