WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2006
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q.  Was it difficult today?  Did you think it was going to be difficult and it got better? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, definitely was very difficult match.  From the beginning I know she's a great player.  I knew it's gonna be very hard match.  And also conditions today were a little bit tough. 
 But, yeah, I'm really pleased.  I used opportunities I had in the second set.  I think she played really good from the beginning and serving good.  So, yeah, in the first set I still had some opportunities especially in the first game.  But then after, it's towards the end of the second, just got better.  I felt better in the court, more confidence.  And, yeah, really pleased I took the opportunities. 

 Q.  You'd lost to her on clay.  Did you feel your game was better suited to beat her on grass?  Did you feel grass was an advantage for you? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, it was while ago and I think since then we both got better.  And, uhm, yeah, I had some good matches on the grass.  Very, very happy to be here and enjoying this time in London again, coming back. 
 Yeah, I knew it will be very difficult match, but I just try to play my game, to move forward, to put her under pressure, and I think it was working today. 

 Q.  You said the conditions were very tough.  Was it the heat? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, it was very warm on the court from the beginning on.  But, I mean, it was for both of us the same.  But, yeah, I think it was very important to stay hydrated, drink a lot of water.  Yeah, I'm still trying to do that. 

 Q.  Do you drink a lot before a match when you know it's going to be hot? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yes, yes. 

 Q.  How many liters? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  It's very important to drink from the morning, and I drink maybe one liter, maybe little bit more even before the match.  During the match, also quite a lot. 
 Also now, after, it's very important to keep drinking and to stay hydrated for the, yeah, next day matches. 

 Q.  So you might play maybe Amélie in the next round if she wins.  You will meet her for the first time on grass.  What do you expect? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  She's definitely great player, No. 1.  I played her already quite few times.  First time on the grass. 
 But she has very good backhand slice, so I think it will may be good here.  But I am playing much better the moment, I think.  Today's match was good for me, I got some more confidence.  I'm really excited to play her or Pratt, whoever wins. 
 So, yeah, I just gonna try and play the best I can and play my game and see how it go. 

 Q.  She will be coming in more often than on any other surfaces.  Does it bother you? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  No, I'll try to focus more on my game and what I should do to hurt her and to, uhm, make her maybe defend a little bit more. 
 But I think it just most important to focus on what I should do than what she is doing, so... 

 Q.  Are you going to play on Centre Court or No. 1?  Do you like this? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, I never played here on Centre Court, or Court 1 either.  So, yeah, very excited.  But I'm sure it's gonna be good match and I'm gonna try and do my best.  We'll see. 

 Q.  If you go to a court like Centre Court or Court 1, do you go and have a look at it beforehand, just quietly? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, probably.  Probably just before.  Even if I have chance to practice there, it's just to see especially when I play first time. 
 But, yeah, it's very exciting, playing also in the big courts with the crowd and good matches.  So that's also what gives you confidence and energy. 

 Q.  Do you think you can play your best tennis on grass?  Do you like the surface? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yes, I like grass.  I'm obviously enjoying my time here.  Yeah, I think with my serve I can do a lot more and trying to improve that.  Also, with the moving, I think I'm pretty good moving on the grass, so it's important.  But, yeah, just try to improve little details. 

 Q.  What do you like about London? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  It's great city.  I love it.  I always enjoy so much coming back here.  And this year actually I said after the tournament I'll stay couple of days to go a little bit sight-seeing and shopping. 
 But it's lovely city, and it's Wimbledon, it's very special.  I love playing here on grass.  And, yeah, two years ago I made final Juniors here, so looking forward for final of professional. 

 Q.  Bigger final. 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  (Smiling). 

 Q.  You had a lot of support out there today.  Especially the English men are very keen on you.  Does that help your game at all? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, definitely it helps a lot.  It's very nice to see you have so many supporters and people that admire you.  It help a lot.  Today I felt little bit better towards second set. 
 Yeah, that gave me more energy, and I was really trying to stay there and focus on what I will have to do and fight until the end.  The crowd definitely helped me as well. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT