PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 16, 2006
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Broken in the first game of the third set. 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, definitely was a very tough match.  Well, in third set I think my serve was not working as well in the second.  I think that was one of the reasons it was such a big difference because in the first set I think I served quite good. 
 Then also she started playing much better.  I lost a little bit concentration.  Then on 5-Love, I started playing better again, a chance to come back. 
 Q.  First set you played almost flawlessly.  You had to be confident going into the second set. 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  I felt good going on the court.  I had good timing.  My serve was working, groundstrokes, I was moving quite well.  In the second set, I started very good.  I broke her the first game, had lots of chances. 
 As I said, I my serve was like very low percentage.  She also started hitting the ball much better, putting me more under pressure.  It's the little things that make the difference. 
 Q.  All you players must be aware of how effective Elena has been in three-set matches.  You know that when you start the match, right?  Do you almost get the feeling when her rivals go into the third set... 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  I don't think that was exactly what I was thinking. 
 Q.  You weren't thinking about her record in three-set matches? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Not at all.  I was not thinking about this at all.  I was just trying from the first point onto focus on my own game, to put her under pressure because I knew if I give her a little bit more time, she's going to hit the ball well because from the baseline she's playing really good. 
 And then in the third set, I mean, she start playing better.  I hit some really close miss.  So I think was not at all this. 
 Q.  You look at who is left here in the field, how far away are you from being with Sharapova, Justine, Dementieva? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, definitely that's one of my goals.  I think I'm still young and I have so many things to improve in my game so far.  I'm just taking one step at a time, try to work on my physical preparation, little bit more my serve, my consistency in my game. 
 Yeah, hopefully this year I'm going to reach the top 10.  That's my goal. 
 Q.  What do you learn from a match like today that you can use in your next match? 
 ANA IVANOVIC:  I think from every match you learn a lot.  This is a good experience for me.  This was first time playing against her.  I really enjoy being here.  I think what I have to take as like challenges.  In the second set, for example, my serve didn't work very well.  I should try to focus more on this, during the match trying to find a way to bring back the timing on this. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT