AEGON CLASSIC BIRMINGHAM
June 17, 2015
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. LARCHER DE BRITO/A. Ivanovic
  6‑4, 3‑6, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You've come straight from the clay to the grass, and she's been playing on grass.   Was that the principle difference in this match?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   I spoke to Petkovic last night and she had the same issue.   It's tough playing someone who already had few matches on the grass.   
Today I started really bad until I found my rhythm and so on.   Her ball was staying very, very low, so I struggled with it a little bit at times.   
I was really disappointed I couldn't hold my serve in the third set.   I think getting a win and moving on to the next one, it would be different game next match.  
But it's always tough, that change.   
   
 Q.   You seem to have either worked your way out of trouble or be working your way out of trouble.   Was there any change in your mindset having done that, do you think?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   I really try to go through the middle more, because many times I was caught late and I was missing on the side or to the net.   
I spoke to my coach a little bit, and just I feel like it's completely different game strategy and game plan.   
So many times I try to do too much because I felt like, Okay, it's fast; I have to do more, instead of just staying calm and executing my shots.   
Also I change my serve a little bit, so I worked on that.   So that was the first time I implemented that in a match.   It's all these things that have to come together.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel that you did some good things but that she played very well?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   She did play really well.   She really didn't give much.   She had few unforced errors towards the end of second set, beginning of the third, and that was about it.   
I was really surprised by how well she stayed in the match.   In the third set I had a lot of opportunities, but I let down, you know.  
She was, yeah, playing good I thought.   
   
 Q.   How will you now prepare for Wimbledon?   
ANA IVANOVIC:   I was just trying to discuss the plan.   Probably move to London and train there in National Centre.   I mean, the facilities are amazing there.   
Just trying get to also lots of sparring matches so I get some, yeah, live games against the girls.  
   
 Q.   Will you stay in England now until Wimbledon?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yes.   Yeah, yeah, definitely.  
   
 Q.   Will you have a lot of spare time or will you be training a lot then?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   I'm going to be training a lot.   Now I have almost, yeah, ten days to really work hard and get level up.  
But I worked hard actually in the last week, so physically I feel actually better than I felt in Paris.   That's definitely a step forward.   Now it's all these adjustments that I have to make.  
To be honest, also I haven't had too many practices on the grass with the weather and everything, but, you know, it's all positive.   Lots of things to look forward to.   
   
 Q.   Which aspects of your game are you going to look to improve?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Definitely consistency and taking the unforced errors out.   Like I said, sometimes I was going for too much, so I really want to work on that shot selection.   
   
 Q.   You said you were working on a lot of things.   Is Wimbledon too early to get the benefit of that?   
ANA IVANOVIC:   No, definitely not.   I know myself, and I already worked hard, so I really feel it's matter of days until I get it right.   Also playing matches against the girls like I mentioned, so that's something I'm going to do a lot of in the next, yeah, few days coming closer to Wimbledon.  
   
 Q.   I know you have to take one match at a time, but you reached the semifinals at the last Grand Slam.   Is that too ambitious a target for Wimbledon?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   It's ambitious definitely, but I'm taking it one step at a time, you know, trying to find my feet on the grass little bit, and, yeah, just see how it goes.  
I know I have game and potential, but like I said it's very rough at times.   So I have to sort of shape it a little more.  
   
 Q.   And football fans like myself were pleased to see Schweinsteiger there.   Does that help you or distract you?   It can be both, can't it?   
ANA IVANOVIC:   It's always good.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT