MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 10, 2006
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.  
 
 
Q.  A different venue, different conditions.  Was it important to take your Hopman Cup performance to a different environment in order to get ready for next week?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, definitely.  Hopman Cup is different preparation.  It was indoor so I had little bit trouble in my first match, especially with my serve.  But today I played much better.  And I think this is very good preparation for Melbourne, so I am really pleased I could perform better today.  
 
Q.  You must have been happy it didn't go to three sets, obviously?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, it was really hot day and it was hard out there.  I was really pleased I took the opportunities in the second set and managed to finish in two.  It was really important, yeah, for next match and for next week.  
 
Q.  How important was the French Open?  You'd beaten her before. 
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, it was very good experience for me.  So I beat her before, and that helped me out today as well.  But it was very good match, I think, today.  
 
Q.  Did any of your family come up from Melbourne? 
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Sorry?  
 
Q.  You had many supporters in the crowd today. 
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah. 
 
Q.  Any family from Melbourne?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  No, no.  They were in Perth with me and they will be in Melbourne, But not here.  I have my family only with me. 
 
Q.  How much difference does the support make from the crowd?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  It's nice.  We have good supporters here in Australia.  It's always nice to have someone on our side.  
 
Q.  Were you very close with Jelena Dokic while she was in Serbia? 
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  While she was in Serbia, no, not really.  Actually, I just had chance to meet her and speak with her just now, recently in Melbourne in December when I was practicing with her. 
 
Q.  I was just wondering, were people over there surprised when she decided to come back here?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  I think they were a little bit, but maybe it's good decision for her because now she gets wildcard for Australia Open and she has chance to come back.  And she was practicing really hard, so I am really hoping she can come back. 
 
Q.  So no one's disappointed she won't be able to play for you guys anymore?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, definitely that's a big miss for us for Fed Cup.  But it's her decision, and probably it's -- it was a good one for her to come back here.  
 
Q.  How much has your forehand improved in the last 12 months?  You used it very well today. 
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, I think the forehand was always my best shot so, yeah, I'm really happy it worked well today.  I tried to run around much more on my forehand.  I feel very good hitting that shot so I try to make best out of it. 
 
Q.  Amelie said you disguised it very well at times.  Is that something you try to do a lot? 
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, I practice very hard, and I was running around quite a lot today.  And also on her slice, it's very hard shot.  So I try to run around and be low and try to make best out of it.  
 
Q.  15-30 down, I think it was 5-All, it was a really long point.  You hit a forehand winner.  How good did that feel?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, that was definitely a good point.  I knew at one stage I had to go for it, and I feel good, so we were running around quite a lot and it was already the end of the match and we were both tired so I just took the opportunity.  
 
Q.  What level do you think Amelie is playing at at the moment?  Do you think she was a bit rusty today?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, I think it was good match from both of us, but it was her first match in this year and it's always hard after a long break.  I think I put her quite a lot under pressure, so she didn't have too much chance.  But, yeah, I mean, she is very good player and I'm sure she's gonna do well in Australia Open.  
 
Q.  Which areas of your game would you like to improve a bit more from today? 
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, I think my serve has to be little bit more secure, so little bit more first serves in.  Didn't make that many double-faults but, still, percentage should be a little bit higher.  
 
Q.  Next match against Svetlana Kuznetsova.  How do you fancy your chances there?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, well, I played her last week.  Yeah, she's great player.  She had some very good matches, and she also had quite a few matches in this year already.  So I'm just gonna go there and try to play my best tennis, try to play a little bit better than the last time, and try to put her under pressure and move her around.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT