TELECOM MASTERS ITALIA
May 10, 2005
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Ana, please.


Q.  Now you think you have the lucky hand.

ANA IVANOVIC:  (Smiling).  After the draw.


Q.  You think the same thing on Saturday morning, or no?

ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, I mean, every opponent is tough, every match is tough by itself.  There are many good players here, so I am pretty happy that I won today. But, as I said, there is no easy matches here, so you have to -- but it's good because you have competition and challenges all the time.


Q.  Can you talk about playing in Warsaw.

ANA IVANOVIC:  In Warsaw we played quite good.  I was happy the way it went because it was my first clay court tournament after long time.  So I was happy that I could win some matches, won some matches. And then after in Berlin I didn't adapt very well.  I didn't have little bit timing. But now it's another week, and I'm looking forward for the next round.


Q.  You like the clay?

ANA IVANOVIC:  Yes, it's good.  It's little bit faster.


Q.  More than the hard court?

ANA IVANOVIC:  I like playing on hard court.  This is little bit faster clay, so it's good for me.  I really enjoy it.


Q.  You think to better than in Warsaw now?

ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, I would like it.  Every player for every tournament goes to win it, so you just have to try to play your best tennis and the results will come.


Q.  You have good round next.

ANA IVANOVIC:  I played against her already twice before, so I know little bit how she's playing.  As I said, I just have to play my game, try to do the best. So looking forward.


Q.  How do you explain there are so many girls coming from East Europe?

ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, they are definitely now coming, especially the Russians.  They have so many players. But I think just competition.  At the moment, Eastern Europe players, there are more of them.  But maybe in few years will be different. So you just have to work hard and it will come.


Q.  Do you think now in Eastern Europe tennis is more popular about maybe Kournikova or people who play, they became famous about tennis?  How is it possible tennis is so popular?

ANA IVANOVIC:  I think tennis, it's becoming more popular.  I can see that also in our country.  There are so many kids now starting to play tennis. I think there are many reasons for that.  But first of all, you have to like it; otherwise, it's not worth doing it.


Q.  Do you think another reason could be in East Europe there are great athletes?  There are great athletes, like you.

ANA IVANOVIC:  Thank you (smiling).


Q.  This is why now tennis is going forward?

ANA IVANOVIC:  Yes, I think it's important.  Many aspects need to come together.  For example, in our country, we have little bit problem with sponsors.  That's the one thing that the people, they are trying to go out little bit to hopefully someone to see them.  So I think that's the main thing. I mean, there is lot of things.  First, you need to be talented and to have hard work and sponsors. But I think is really nice.  I enjoy it very much.


Q.  Who is the person you have to thank for your career?

ANA IVANOVIC:  First place are my parents for that they supported me since I start playing tennis.  It was same type situation in our country.  I was lucky I got manager so I could go little bit further and prove, so I could compete on a higher level. But my family has always been there for me, so I really appreciate that.


Q.  You have a brother or sister?

ANA IVANOVIC:  Yes, brother.


Q.  He plays basketball?

ANA IVANOVIC:  Basketball, yes.


Q.  You never think to play basketball in the first years of your sport life?

ANA IVANOVIC:  No, no, I didn't.  Only tennis.  I started when I was five.  So I was watching it on TV and I really liked it, so I was asking my mom to sign me in for a tennis school, and that's how I started.


Q.  In the past when the Juniors arrived on the pro tour there was a big difference between the older players and the young players.  Now what about the situation?

ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, it's -- I think it's little bit you have to make the step between Juniors and professional.  But I think I did that really well. So it's little bit different.  It's more serious, it's more -- it's higher level of the game, of course.  But I really enjoying being here.  I really appreciate that.


Q.  What about the difference between yourself and someone like Sharapova when you arrive?

ANA IVANOVIC:  I think now at the moment there is quite a lot of young players coming in, and that's nice, that's good for competition.  It's not only the same people, there are always new and new people who are coming.  It's not always the, let's say, same final.  It's just much more interesting. For us, bigger competition, and that's good.  It's temptation.


Q.  Do you think that now careers are shorter maybe?

ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, depends.  I mean, you just -- I think the physical condition, it's very important because that's the base to prevent injuries so you can last longer.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT