NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 30, 2005
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Ana, please. 
 

Q.  Talk a little bit about you had such an upset match with Kuznetsova a few days ago, then coming in here.
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, well, I was pretty happy with my game against Svetlana.  I played very well especially in the third set in the end.  I really had some good points.  I was pretty happy I could win that match.  She was up 5-3 in the third, but I came back.  Yeah, I was really happy with that match. 
 

Q.  The hamstring injury, has it gotten a little worse as the tournament went on?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, yes.  First, actually, I twisted my ankle.  On first match I also pulled my hamstring.  So it was not that good.  But with bandage, it was still okay little bit. But I just -- today I just was not really concentrate 100% and also little bit tired so... 
 

Q.  The heavy strapping, did it prevent you from doing some of the things that you normally like to do on the court?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, yeah.  It was little bit my feet and my hamstring was little bit disturbing me on the movements, so I also didn't move that well today.  It's also little bit scary not to get (worse?). But, yeah, I think that was also pretty -- 
 
Q.  The ankle, what happened there?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  When I came here, first practice, I twisted my ankle so it was already like three, four days I couldn't practice.  So I'm pretty happy with the way I played all tournament. 
 

Q.  Did something happen between your last match and now, you didn't feel worse than last time?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, not really.  My, like, hamstring hurt.  But, as I said, I was just not concentrate 100%.  In the second set I had some chances.  She played well on that points and she didn't really give me chance to come back. 
 

Q.  When you lost to Venus, was that the match - even though you didn't win it, you came so close - was that the match perhaps that told you, "I could play with any of these girls"?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Definitely.  That was a great match for me, great experience.  I played two tight sets with her.  I had some set points.  That match really helped me to see that it's still not far away.  But as I said, that there is so many things I have to still improve and doing looking forward for the next challenges. 
 

Q.  You won't have to play any more qualifiers for a while.
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, not the summer season (smiling).  So that's good, because I think I had quite a lot of matches in last few months. 
 

Q.  Did you think you would be Top 50 this quickly?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, not as last year, like middle of last year, I didn't think.  But now as I played some more matches, I thought it's much closer.  So I'm pretty happy with my effort to come.  Now after this, I will be even Top 40 so I am pretty happy. 
 

Q.  Can you talk a little bit about Amelie and her game, what she did well out there.
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, she was just playing constantly good.  So in the first set I think I make some unforced errors.  She was also serving quite well and returning well on my serve.  I had some double-faults.  Like first game I had two double-faults. So in the second set, as I said, I tried to come back, but she was just on every ball.  And even if I would have chance to finish the point, I miss on deciding shots so... I think it was good effort for her.  She just kept positive. 
 

Q.  Between tournaments, where do you train?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  In Switzerland.  In Switzerland, Zurich now. 
 

Q.  What is your schedule now?  You'll probably want to take some time off.
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Yes, I will take maybe like 10 days or something to get recover from all these injuries, and then I will start practicing on the clay so to prepare for Warsaw, Berlin and Rome.  That's my plan for like the next months. 
 

Q.  You hit the ball very flat.  Are you going to be a good clay court player?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, I think it's fine.  I prefer hard court, but also on the clay court I feel quite comfortable. 
 

Q.  Are there many people from where you come from playing tennis?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, it's starting to be very popular now at home.  We have some very good -- Jankovic is Top 20.  Dokic, I hope she will come back.  And also some other players which will be good.  So I really hope it will get better. 
 

Q.  You defeated Jankovic.
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  No, no.  She lost second round just before.  She lost to Vaidisova, and then I played her. 
 

Q.  Have you played each other on tour?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  No, we never played on tour. 
 

Q.  Even practice matches?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  No, no. 
 

Q.  Have you known each other for a long time?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  She's actually two years older than me.  So in national tournaments we didn't play too much.  It was different category. But, yeah, I know her.  In tournament sometimes we see each other. 
 

Q.  You think Dokic is coming back?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  I hope so.  I really hope so for her.  I think she's very good player so... 
 

Q.  What memories will you take from this tournament?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, definitely this was my great effort.  I beat first time Top 10 player.  I got lot of experience, so many things to learn, even from this match.  You have to be tough.  And there is still so many things I have to improve in my game, so really looking forward. 
 

Q.  Did Sveta say anything to you after the match?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  No, no. 
 

Q.  Didn't compare braces or anything?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  No, no, not really (smiling). 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT