AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2005
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions.  
 
 
Q.  Do you see that as a learning experience?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, definitely.  It's going to be great experience for me.  This is my first appearance in a centre court, so pretty happy.  Yeah, it was great experience for me.  
 
Q.  You were obviously a bit nervous at the start and also at the end. 
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, I was a little bit nervous at the start.  Yeah, I think in the second set also I was a little bit disappointed with my service game in the end.  But, yeah, that's experience.  Next time I hope I won't make the same mistakes.  
 
Q.  What sort of goals do you have for the rest of 2005?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, now in next few months, I would like to get under 50, so like Top 50.  That's the first goal for me. 
 
Q.  What about more long-term?  Top 10?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, the Top 10.  That's my goal.  
 
Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the support from the Serbian crowd?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, it was nice.  They support me for my first match here.  It's very nice.  I enjoy that.  It's always nice to have someone from your country who is supporting you, so I'm happy. 
 
Q.  What kind of things were they shouting?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, most of the time it didn't have anything to do with the game.  But they just said sometimes, "Come on, Ana," stuff like this.  So that was nice. 
 
Q.  What were the things that didn't have anything to do with the game?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Just some songs about country or stuff like this.  
 
Q.  What did you find difficult in Amelie's game?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Well, she was mixing quite a lot.  So I didn't get used to it before.  I didn't have a chance to play against these players before.  Obviously, she's great player.  I didn't have rhythm in the beginning also.  She didn't really give me chance to get in my game.  So I think that what was result today.  
 
Q.  What do you believe are your major strengths?  Your power?  Your consistency?  Mental?
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  I think my serve is quite well.  And, yeah, mental part, also try to be tough.  Yeah, I think I have also good groundstrokes.  But also quite a lot of things to improve and to work on.  
 
Q.  Such as? 
 
ANA IVANOVIC:  Yeah, like everything little bit.  I think all the things that I have to improve a little bit.  Really looking forward.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT