ROLAND GARROS
June 4, 2015
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







L. SAFAROVA/A. Ivanovic
  7‑5, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English. 

Q.   You had a pretty good start of the match today.   Can you explain why it turned this way and maybe why you lost a bit of momentum?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, you know, I really started well, like every other match, I really had a good plan coming into the match, but I just felt like I ran a little bit out of gas. 
I started dropping short and she played really, really well.   She was very aggressive.
You know, to be on that level I need a little bit better footwork, and I kind of was lacking that.   Also explosivity in my serve.   I'm really proud of what I achieved these two weeks.

Q.   You think it's all the matches before that maybe drained you a little bit, or change of the weather?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, you know, it's matches as well.   But to be honest, I really felt like I had to work hard also during the tournament to improve the level. 
As I said, coming into the tournament, I didn't feel my game was at the level I wanted to.   Even between my matches I had to work on some things and try and improve. 
Obviously also that took some toll and as well playing lots of matches.   Still, it's good situation to be in. 

Q.   At the end of the second set, did you feel maybe it could turn again because she was getting nervous?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, but, again, I had to step up on 5‑All serving, and I didn't do that.   I kind of was not explosive on my serve, and that made a difference throughout the whole match.

Q.   It was a nervy match for both.   You were amazing in the beginning.   A strange match, or is Safarova that more control in of the ball?
ANA IVANOVIC:   No, I mean, she really played well.   Obviously there were few mishits, but I think it was also a little bit wind at times.
I think at some points it was real high‑quality match and lots of long rallies.   She played really well.   She was tough.   She had few nervous mistakes in the end, but other than that, she was really solid. 

Q.   Do you think this tournament is going to maybe change the other part of your season, that it's going to give you maybe a second breath?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   No, I really feel I'm on the right path.   There is work to be done, and I look forward to that. 
Honestly, what I achieved these two weeks, I'm really proud and happy.   I'm aware there is still room for improvement, and that's exciting part. 

Q.   What are your plans for the coming grass season?
ANA IVANOVIC:   I'm going to playing Birmingham and then have a week off before London. 

Q.   Just a quick word on the game yesterday between Novak and Rafa Nadal.   Wanted to know if you watched it.   What do you think about what Novak is accomplishing this season, and what kind of inspiration he is for Serbian players and people?
ANA IVANOVIC:   I actually watched the whole match.   I thought it was great tennis by Novak.   I mean, honestly he hasn't done much wrong.   He really played so, so well.   You can learn a lot just by watching him. 
I think he has a great chance to win the title. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT