ROLAND GARROS
June 2, 2015
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. IVANOVIC/E. Svitolina
  6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English. 

Q.   What did this win mean to you?   Obviously it was another emotional one, but this one was fairly straightforward.   You showed a lot of poise despite the occasion. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Obviously I'm very, very thrilled to be in the first semifinals since 2008.   It's been a long road and hard work.   Today was very, very tough match, even though the score doesn't indicate that. 
It was tough conditions ‑ and it was obviously for both of us ‑ but very, very gusty.   I really tried to just execute my game plan and tried to move more, because in the windy conditions that's what you have to do. 
I was very happy I managed to do that so well and put pressure on her.

Q.   How pleased are you with yourself in terms of handling it mentally and emotionally?   Because you mentioned you're a combustible person, but at the same time, like I Ben said, you were very poised. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I mean, I really had to work hard at it, because obviously day to day‑‑ every day is different.   Every day is a new match and new challenge.   Not every day you feel the same.   Not every day you have the same preparation. 
So you have to do the best with the situation.   You know, by now I also know myself and I know what I need.
Today I knew I had to stay calm, especially in these kind of conditions.   It wasn't easy on the practice court this morning, but I really tried to put it together for the match.
I was really happy to do that.

Q.   You came into this tournament and said that you had no idea what to expect from yourself here.   Looking back on your tournament so far, I mean, can you talk about that a little bit?   Like what has it been like match to match, day to day for you?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, obviously I haven't had as many matches coming into this tournament as I had probably last year.   Last year I came in probably expecting to be this far in the tournament.
But, you know, now I had to battle.   First round, Sunday, I lost first set; I was down and had to fight my way back. 
Second round was the same story. 
You know, just really tried to stay and hang in there and not think about the occasion or the match or anything.   Just tried to execute. 
I'm aware it's a long road and long path, and with my team, that's what we spoke about.   You know, it's a process.   I'm enjoying.   Also, in between my matches, I really use that day not only to recover, but also to work on things and sort of prepare what I want to achieve next day.
That's what I have been really sticking to.

Q.   Does this feel like a familiar feeling for you when you're winning a Grand Slam quarterfinal match?   You have done it before, but because of the time does it feel like a whole new thing or like something, Oh, yeah I remember this?
ANA IVANOVIC:   No, I do remember that feeling, but obviously I'm just so thrilled.   You can't take any victory for granted, let alone for quarterfinal.   It's not every day that you reach that.   It's been a long time. 
So I really am pleased.   I know the feeling and the emotions, and also winning on Philippe Chatrier, it means a lot to me.   I'm very humbled and very much appreciate all the hard work not only I but everyone around me puts to be in this position.

Q.   You spoke earlier in the week about how it's difficult to find the right coach and right team and people you are comfortable with.   What kind of things are clicking between you and Mats?   What's special about this partnership?
ANA IVANOVIC:   You know what?   We were really, each day we try to adjust and we try to learn about each other. 
Like I said, we worked in the past, so he already, from the get‑go, knew sort of what I like and what I don't like. 
He saw my game because he knows me for so long, so it was a little bit easier to start the working relationship.   You know, still, we adjust.   There is lots of people on your team and everyone has to know their position. 
And only when that all works mostly everything can come into place. 

Q.   Several years ago you talked about how you had lost confidence.   What did you do to get it back?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, you know, obviously it wasn't the great start of the season for me.   I really tried to work hard.   You know, sometimes you play great, you work hard, but you don't really get the results you want.
Other times, you know, maybe it's the opposite.   You know what?   You have to just find it within yourself and trust in the work you have done.   You have to trust in your team and execution on the court, you know, because sometimes you would give your best out there and it won't be enough. 
You have to accept that and not, you know, dwell on it and then lose more matches in that manner.   I really appreciate every victory, and there is no easy opponents out there.

Q.   How are you different today than you were as the same woman sitting in that chair seven years ago in 2008?
ANA IVANOVIC:   I think for a starter I'm talking slow.   Am I?   No?   Ah, damn.   (Laughter.)
Obviously, you know, seven years ago it was completely different experience.   I was a lot younger and I sort of didn't have the experience. 
I just was so excited and I felt like, you know, I can achieve anything.   At that point I had so many victories and so many good results, you know.   Maybe I didn't appreciate it as much as I do now.

Q.   On to the next one, Safarova?   You have had tough matches against her.   You won your last match.   What do you make of that matchup, and what it's going to be like in a Grand Slam semifinal against her?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I mean, she's great player.   She showed that many times.
Also, here yesterday she had a great match against Maria.   She won Doha beating Azarenka.   She had top 10 or top 5 victories.   Like you mentioned, last year I had two‑set loss to her.   It's going to be tough matchup for me, so I really want to focus tomorrow. 
Sort of today relax and tomorrow prepare myself.   She's obviously lefty.   Gets really lots of balls back very heavy, very aggressive.   She's doing great, and she obviously deserve her spot, too.

Q.   Similar to what you were just asked, what do you think yourself today would tell yourself in 2008?   Or what piece of advice would you give that young girl seven years ago?
ANA IVANOVIC:   You know, like I spoke about, there were so many expectations and so many exciting moments at that time in my career and my life in general.   I feel like people around me were not as experienced.   Of course, it was happening for first time for them, too.
So I don't feel like I was guided really well, you know.   So all of a sudden there was so much expectations and no one really knew how to handle it and the pressures and so on.
I would just try to keep the same rhythm.   Because all of a sudden, everything started changing.   My coach wanted to change my playing style, and this one wanted ‑‑I'm like, no.   Why change something that worked and it worked for so long?   There were little bits and pieces that didn't go my way.
Again, that was another learning experience.   Then when I became older and more mature, I knew more strictly what I wanted and what I needed.
You know, now I would say, No, that's not what I want.   This is what feels good for me and this is what doesn't. 

Q.   Do you think you're easier on yourself these days? 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Definitely.   Oh, my God, that's one thing that I really learned.   Ever since I was young, girl, even in school, I was always perfectionist, and I always wanted to do my homework as soon as I got home.   Everything had to be done properly.
And you know what?   When you have tough times and when you learn you can't be perfect in every situation, it's hard to accept, you know, because I still do expect.
But you just have to, because, you know, it's not about the situation.   It's how you deal with it.   You always have a choice. 
Now I really try to forgive myself sometimes and to accept it and to move it.
Like I spoke before, I have a short memory. 

Q.   It's obviously been a long road from 2008 to now.   What kind of support are you sensing out there?   Do you feel people are really rooting for you to get back to where you were?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   And through the years I had fans still, honest fans and true fans, and that's great to see.
Like I said on the court in interview, it's exactly this.   You have to know who your real friends are with good and bad.   In life, it's not always good.   It's in everyday life. 
This is what really means to me and what through the years really showed up.   You know, I maybe don't have as many good friends, but I know they are true. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT