ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2015
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  A. IVANOVIC/E. Makarova7-5, 3-6, 6-1THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.Q. You're in the quarterfinals here for the first time since you won the tournament.  How does it feel to be back in this place?ANA IVANOVIC: Amazing, really.  To be honest, coming into the tournament I didn't really, you know, expect that at all.  But I really worked hard for each match. I worked hard even before the tournament to reach the quarterfinal again here.  It feels amazing.  Yeah, very proud the way I played in the third set.Q. Does it feel like it's been a long time?  Does it feel like it was just yesterday since...ANA IVANOVIC: It's kind of a mix, you know.  On the one hand it does feel like it's different life.  In the other hand, you know, I feel like time is really flying.  I feel it hasn't been that many years.  I definitely do have the feeling it's amazing.Q. With the rain interruption today and how your opponent tried to come back in the second, just talk about how challenging the conditions and everything was today.ANA IVANOVIC: The conditions were very tough.  It was very gusty.  You know, rain was coming at the times.  When we had to stop, it's fine, it's just we didn't really get the time.  It was like, okay, in half an hour, in half an hour, in half an hour.  So it was really not easy to relax and refocus. Then it was like, okay, in 15 minutes.  It was not as long warmup, but I was really happy I managed to keep composed when we got back on court.  And even though I didn't play the first game very well, I really served well the next game.  Yeah, I was really happy. But in the third set I knew I had to step up the level, because she's a very dangerous opponent.  She gets lots of balls. She was very aggressive on her down-the-line shots.  I tried to take that away from her.Q. I'm not sure how much you watched of it yesterday, but there was a call that was pretty controversial with Serena and Azarenka's match, and afterwards Victoria was saying she'd like to a video instant replay be utilized in tennis.  Is that something you have an opinion on?ANA IVANOVIC: First of all, I was really frustrated I couldn't see the match on TV.  It was not the TV that was broadcasting it. Yeah, I mean, sometimes obviously we have Hawk-Eye on hard court.  Yeah, it's very hard.  I mean, video can't really justify.  The Hawk-Eye is the only way to go, I think.Q. In an instance where it's not necessarily just a line call, in this instance, the audio would have helped, as well, video replay.  Is that something you thought about before or that you would see use for?ANA IVANOVIC: I mean, I haven't thought about it, to be honest.  But it would be interesting to have it, probably, because at the end of the day it's about, you know, fair play, as well. That's why we have Hawk-Eye, you know, so you have option of challenging.  Maybe that is something they can bring in, too.Q. You have had your share of battles with your serve over the years.  What goes through your mind nowadays when you step up to serve?ANA IVANOVIC: You know, for me, I really, really learned about myself that it's all about game plan out there.  When I have a plan sort of everything falls in place, and it's not only serve, it's also the game.  This is the thing I work hard for and obviously I have been working on my serve.  There were so many informations I had on it. But at the end of the day, you have to go back to basic and what feels natural for you.  I have been really improving that area, and I feel now it's getting to where I want it to be.Q. When you're under pressure do things change?  Do you start thinking, just get it in or what do you think?  Stick to your plan?ANA IVANOVIC: Exactly.  I just try to go back to the plan.  Obviously you have many moments in a match where you try to rush or where you get ahead of yourself and maybe really want that point badly, but again, doesn't matter.  It's all about execution and it's about going back to the plan that works.Q. I realize this is an old story, but what was it like growing up during the war years and developing as a player, and how did that affect your inner drive?ANA IVANOVIC: You know what?  It was definitely not easy times, you know.  It was tough trying to also get financial support and trying to compete and trying to actually break out of the country and, you know, take you seriously when you're at a tournament. At the end of the day it made me humble and made my appreciate more things that I got later in my career. You know, I really work hard for everything that I achieved, and I'm very proud of that.Q. When you won here in 2008, Maria Sharapova was a big factor in tennis but not considered that much of a factor at this tournament.  I'm just wondering as years have passed, you guys are similar ages, how have you observed her own sort of transformation on clay?ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I mean, she has big game.  There is no doubt about that.  She really goes for her shots, and, yeah, I think she's done amazingly.  Obviously her movement was not her big strength but she really worked hard at that point obviously. She got used to sliding and to moving.  You know, nowadays also there are few months on clay that you perform and play and I guess that really helped her improve over the years. Yeah, I know she's also very, very aggressive and, yeah, uses angles, too.Q. Did you think back then she would be so successful here, looking back?ANA IVANOVIC: You know, honestly to make three finals in a row and win two of them, probably not.  I think everyone didn't really think that. But obviously she proved how big of a champion she is, and she's done great.Q. A win like this will bring a lot of enthusiasm in Serbia.  How would you describe your relationship with the Serbian press?ANA IVANOVIC: Brings enthusiasm for me, too.  No, but it's amazing.  Obviously I love my country, and I always try to go back and to give back. You know, for me I started playing tennis because of Monica Seles, and she was obviously coming from Serbia.  I try also to inspire young people and young kids to play. You know, I try to give back in any way I can and obviously to have that tremendous support from family and friends back home, it feels amazing. I feel it anywhere I am.Q. You faced Serena I think in many, many settings.  You had that win against her at the Australian Open last year.  What makes her especially tough in a Grand Slam setting?  Does it feel like a different Serena when you play her at a Grand Slam?ANA IVANOVIC: Well, honestly, I think she's always good, but as the tournament progresses, she just gets better.  The further in a tournament you play her, the tougher it gets.  She's obviously great champion and we are happy to have someone like her in Open era. You know, she's very intimidating.  Big serve, and that's not something we have in women's tennis.  We see a lot of breaks.  When you play her, you just know you have to hold your serve, and that creates a lot of pressure. I don't think we ever -- we played in clay I think in Rome last year, but, yeah, she's obviously very tough to play against.Q. From a media perspective, it can sometimes be difficult to make sense of a player's trajectory, the results, how the career unfolds.  How does it make sense to you with the results you had early, and then lesser results, and now good results again?  Is that meaningful for you or just arbitrary?ANA IVANOVIC: It's not only for media, it's for us too sometimes.  The thing is that sometimes you work really hard, but things are just not falling into place.  You know, it's hard, and it's years on tour.  And obviously girls I think function a little bit different than guys do in the mind, and girls are more emotional and everything. So, you know, you have to take everything in consideration, and it's hard to peak and perform best every week.  There are only a couple of players that do that. I think it's just very important to try our best, and hard work always gets results.  Sometimes obviously physically maybe or not at the level or whatever it is, you know, it's important to keep your head down and work hard and, yeah, look for opportunities.Q. How much do you know about your next opponent?  Have you been watching her much in this tournament?  What are you expecting from the match?ANA IVANOVIC: I honestly haven't watched her throughout this tournament, and obviously she's been improving her form throughout each match.  We played in Madrid just a few weeks ago, and she's young player.  I have been speaking about her for a long time.  I think we are going to see plenty of her in the future. It's going to be tough match.  Anyone who gets to the quarterfinals deserves the spot. Yeah, it's going to be tough match, but I look forward to it.  At the moment I just want to recovery and prepare tomorrow for that.Q. What would a win in your quarterfinal mean to you, first semifinal since you won here at a Grand Slam?  What would that one more step...ANA IVANOVIC: That would be amazing, obviously.  Like I said, you know, coming into the tournament, I didn't even really been expecting so much I would be sitting here, but I'm just taking it one match at a time and one day at a time actually. Tomorrow I will work on few things and try to improve and get better.  This is exciting part that I feel I can still improve.  You know, just be focused and, you know, to reach semifinal would be amazing feeling.  Not only for me but for anyone who is at this stage of the tournament.Q. You mentioned emotions on court.  You were perhaps even more emotional than normal today.  You were really intense at times.  Is that because it means more at this stage of your career when you get these chances?ANA IVANOVIC: I think it's because I'm Serbian.Q. Even more than normal?ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, but all the Serbians are like this (smiling).  We have combustible personalities and we are very emotional.  But it's good.  I think, you know, obviously every player is different, and it's like everything.  You can make it work for you or against you. You know, there were times in my career where people said, Okay, you have to be less enthusiastic, less emotional on court.  But actually, it takes more energy for me to stop that than to just let it out. I do get excited.  It's part of my personality, and I love it.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT