ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2015
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  A. IVANOVIC/D. Vekic  6-0, 6-3    THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   Q.  Let's start by saying that was a pretty solid performance today.  It must feel good to be in the locker room again after an hour instead of after nearly two hours.  Your thoughts?  ANA IVANOVIC: Definitely.  After first two matches, I really started to get a little bit of feeling and groove, and yesterday I had easy day.  Today I really had strict game plan.  I had an idea what I wanted to do, and obviously confidence from first two matches helped me in today's performance, too. I really knew I was working hard for few weeks now, and I spoke about it even last few weeks.  You know, when you know you are working the right direction,  it always gets results.  Today I did some things better than I did in my first two matches, which I was happy about.   Q.  Talk a little bit about the potential changes you want to do on your team.  Could you talk about that and elaborate?  If you did it already or is happening?  ANA IVANOVIC: I have still same fitness coach and my physio is still there.  I took on a sparring partner from the clay court season because I really felt I needed to get my intensity up in training. And obviously since here, Mats from adidas program has been helping me out and he's spending a lot of hours on court with me and we have been working and sort of getting me back on the right path.   Q.  Are you planning to put off that decision until like after this bulk of the slam season after Wimbledon, or is it a process of hiring?  ANA IVANOVIC: You know, we all know how tough and kind of stressful this part is, you know.  There is not much room for changes unless you're really forced to. I'm really happy with my team at the moment.  You know, we really work hard.  We are also trying to get used to each other and what everyone's position is. I spoke a few days ago about importance of having good team and having structure, and this is what I'm starting to get. I really understand this is what I need to perform well, and I'm really, really happy. So, yeah, at the moment, the way I see it, we're going to sit and talk again after Wimbledon, but for me this is how I'm going to go forward.   Q.  Through your first two matches, what weren't you happy about?  And what were you particularly happy about today that maybe you were able to fix?  ANA IVANOVIC: Well, you know, the first two matches I really felt like I had kind of a slow start, and I spoke to my coach, to Mats about it, and to my team and everything.  This is something I really wanted to change today.  I was happy I did that, because it's not easy playing late and then playing first. Also today conditions were a little bit heavier, it was colder in the morning.  I was really happy I was able to change that.   Q.  The next match, how are you going to do -- I think you're going to play on Monday?  ANA IVANOVIC: Sunday I think.  Sunday, that, I know.  I don't even know who I play. For me it's just doing my own thing.  I really feel I have to focus in my game and try to impose that on opponent. I have a certain path and tactic I want to follow.  There is no easy opponents.  We saw that.  Every Grand Slam, every tournament, there are lots of upsets on paper, but every player can perform well.  So you can't underestimate anyone. No matter who I play, it's going to be another preparation, another day to look forward to and challenge. I'm really happy to be back in the fourth round here.  It's been a while since I have done that. Just, yeah, enjoying the process and working hard.   Q.  Why do you think there has been so many good players coming out of the Balkan countries?  ANA IVANOVIC: I don't know.  I guess everything comes in waves.  It's great to see.  You know, there is so many talents, you know, coming from, you know, Eastern Bloc probably. And I know speaking for my own country, ever since I was young we have been always great in sports, whether it was volley ball or water polo, basketball.  We have always had talents.  At the moment it's tennis.  We hope next generation can follow up that.   Q.  Carla Suarez Navarro is into the top 8.  You have been on tour for a while and played many players with a one-handed backhand.  You've recently played Carla.  Does it feel different at all playing a player with a one-handed backhand compared to Justine or Amélie?  ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, definitely.  It's been a while since I played Justine.  She had a great one-handed backhand.  I feel they can get a better angle than two-handed.  They might struggle with the hard balls but she definitely puts a lot of spin on clay courts.  It really plays well, and even on hard court sometimes the ball bounces high.  She can really get players off court with it.   Q.  Obviously in the middle of a Grand Slam your sole focus is going to be on your performance and how you are playing.  There are a lot of tournament directors here looking to try and sign you on for up and coming tournaments, particularly Karl Budge from New Zealand.  How much would you like to come back to the tournament you won in 2014?  ANA IVANOVIC: I would love to come back to Auckland.  It was my first visit and I had great memories.  I won a tournament, and I also enjoyed my free time there.  I think the country is beautiful. I would love to go again to play and hopefully come a little bit earlier so I can enjoy a little bit the islands and the nature.  I think it's one of the most amazing countries.   Q.  I know you know everybody in Germany is following you, especially because of (indiscernible).  How does it feel to have him in your player's box?  ANA IVANOVIC: Like I spoke before, it's great having a great team around you and positive people and the support.  You know, there is nothing better than that, yeah.   Q.  We've heard you speaking some French words after your match.  Are you learning French to follow Novak in having some entire interviews in French soon?  ANA IVANOVIC: I'm way, way, way far away from that.  No, definitely I know a few words.  Comme ci comme ca, merci, tres bien.  But my pronunciation is terrible.  I stick to English.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT