ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2015
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  A. IVANOVIC/M. Doi3-6, 6-3, 6-4THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. Maybe you barely know about your opponent, but she started playing really good, especially in the first set.  So what was your reaction and what kind of impression did you have of her?ANA IVANOVIC: Yes, I didn't know much about her going into today's match.  She played well last week.  I tried to watch a little bit, but obviously it was different once you're on the court.  On video sometimes it's not exactly same. But she played really, really well, I thought.  Obviously moving great and hitting the ball very hard actually.  Considering she was not so tall, I thought she was generating a lot of pace.  She is young, and I think she has a bright future.Q. Changing courts, when did you get to know about that?  Did it affect your preparation or motivation or something?ANA IVANOVIC: You know, it's been a long waiting, so I was actually ready to go.  They give us about 20, 25 minutes notice, which is normal.  So I just try not to think about the court I was playing on.  I think about what I'm going to try to do on the court, my plan and tactics. Yeah, didn't really affect me.Q. So you're playing Vekic on Friday.  Only time you met was on a cricket pitch I remember in Birmingham.  What do you expect on that match?  Do you have any plans?ANA IVANOVIC: As you started the sentence I'm like, Did we ever play?  I can't remember.  Yeah, you know, I actually saw her first match against Garcia, and she has big serve, big game.  She really goes for her shots. I don't know much about her.  I haven't really seen her play too much.  Obviously I have day tomorrow to prepare, but it's going to be a lot different to today's.  She doesn't probably move as well as Doi did today, but she has big serve, big shots.Q. You won here seven years ago; you're still a top contender to win here.  What's your secret to be so good for so long?ANA IVANOVIC: As my parents.  (Laughter.) No, honestly, I just try to enjoy it.  In one way it was great to win Grand Slam at such a young age. On the other hand, we grew up in the public eye.  I went through my teenage years and early 20s all in the public eye. You learn a lot about yourself and what you like, what you don't like, what you need and what you don't need.  Obviously it changes and I'm different person now to five or six or seven years ago. So I approach matches and approach tournaments a little bit different, but still, I really try to take it one step at a time.  I try to enjoy it and try to find the things that make you happy when you're on the road, too. It's also not easy to always wake up in a hotel bed.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT