ROLAND GARROS
May 24, 2015
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  A. IVANOVIC/Y. Shvedova4-6, 6-2, 6-0An interview with:ANA IVANOVICTHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. I imagine you know what happened today with Federer on center court.  Someone come on court and asked to do a selfie with him.  Just on court.ANA IVANOVIC: Okay.  I didn't.Q. How many times did you have an experience like that?  How much selfie do they ask you to do?  What do you think in general about selfies with people?ANA IVANOVIC: Well, they do ask a lot.  Sometimes they are very close and very much into your face.  Sometimes it can be actually quicker if they're ready for the photo. Nowadays it's all about selfies.  It's not even about autographs anymore.  They sometimes ask me to do it.  You know, Can you please just do it because you're on court? So it's a nice way to interact with fans, but sometimes can be a little bit overwhelming.Q. What did you do differently to turn that around today?ANA IVANOVIC: It was a little bit of tough start.  I didn't have many matches coming into the tournament, so I was really happy that I manage in the second set to sort of play a little bit deeper and put a little bit more pressure on her. In the third set I really felt like, okay, I was playing my game.  I worked really hard last week.  I was really trying to rely on that.  I knew I put the work I had to put in, so that gave me confidence. Even after first set I really tried to look for my game, and I was really happy to turn it around.Q. Some players complained that the balls were too slow; some said they liked it.  How do you feel with the conditions out there?ANA IVANOVIC: It was a little bit different, you know, depending on whether the sun was shining or whether it was cloudy last few days. Today I actually felt like they were not flying as much.  You know, was coming short a lot of the time. I don't know if it was the balls or tension, but one of the two anyway.Q. You're a player that has had great success in your career, and also times you've struggled on court, I think.  When things aren't going well on court, do you trust in your training, or how do you see through the bad patches and make sure that you know that wins are going to come again?ANA IVANOVIC: Well, you know, it's always tough.  The moment I was going through some tough times with coaching and the way it was set up and working. And as a professional player, deep down you always know if you have put the work or not.  Today I really relied on the work I put in because I really worked so hard since Madrid, since Rome. I was really trying to put hours on the court because that's what I felt I was lacking.  So it's still obviously not at the level I want it to be, but at least I know I'm on the right path.   I been doing a lot of drills, moving, a lot of time in the gym. So it's showing, and I feel it in my practice sessions.  Now it's just matter of trusting it on the court.  Like I said, even after first set I knew I had this work in my bank.  I really tried to think positive and still fight.Q. You mentioned coaching.  Who have you within working with?  I know that you split with Dejan Petrovic.  Who have you been putting the work in with?ANA IVANOVIC: I was doing a lot of work with my sparring partner throughout Madrid and Rome, and then this week Mats from adidas program has been helping me. It was good because we worked in the past together to have someone on the side sort of putting some patterns back in my game, because I felt I was a little bit lost. I played without a purpose, and I can't do that.  I have talent and possibility to do many things, but need to have purpose and goal when you step on the court, and I was lacking that. So now I feel I got it back.  Obviously it's about getting enough time to practice it and to grow it.Q. In New York I think you said you spend too much time at the book stores.  Is that phase over?ANA IVANOVIC: Well, I try to stay away from that, but I still enjoy to read and I still enjoy to have time for myself where I can analyze things. Maybe it's not good always, but I do enjoy that.  That's just who I am.  I try to sort of, yeah, be different, but I can't, so I go back to being myself.Q. Is switching coaches the hardest part, getting used to someone new and the technical changes and practices and that kind of stuff?ANA IVANOVIC: Yes.  Many people do not understand how hard it is to find the right match and the right person.  Not necessarily one coach is good for another player. I don't like changes, to be honest.  It's always hard because you have to sort of start from the beginning.  I have to tell about myself, how I feel, where I see my game.  So it's a lot of getting used to.  What rhythm I like with practicing and how much I like to work, what can we do, and so son. With Mats I feel like we know each other, so we're sort of into the pattern already.  This is one big step.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT