MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 6, 2015
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. SUAREZ NAVARRO/A. Ivanovic
  7‑5, 1‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Obviously a tough loss.   You played good tennis during two sets, but then in the third your intensity dropped a bit.   Do you agree with that?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   I really felt it was a little bit up and down match from my side.   It was really pity.   I felt I still had chances.   I created a lot of opportunities for myself.
Even in the first set it was really close.   She was 5‑3 up and I don't know how many set points to go 6‑3.   But I felt it could have been the other way around, because we had so many close games that few points decided. 
Similar situation in the third again.   It's just that, yeah, on important points it was one or two points that decided game.   I felt like many times I tried to get it cross and it was coming to the middle and short.
She was obviously taking advantage of that. 

Q.   We're halfway through the clay court season.   You have to go to Rome.   What positives can you take out of this, especially after such a turbulent week?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, it's been turbulent month actually.   It's been good few matches for me, to be honest.   Few things really cleared up in my path, in my head, the approach I have towards matches and practices.
So like I spoke last time, this is very, very important.   I feel I'm on the right path.   It's just working hard and taking care of these things.
Today physically I lacked a little bit of strength in some points.   This is something that ‑‑ well not easily, but it can be improved quite quick.

Q.   Is that just because it's taken you a while to get the broken toe fixed and back to that level of fitness that you need?
ANA IVANOVIC:   It's been fine now since month and a half.   It's just finding right also work on the court.   I lack the intensity on court for a little bit.
So now I'm getting that back.   That's what I mean about organizing my practices.   I'm structured practicing more now, and that's definitely showing on court.
But I need more of it.   I need to build on that.   It's only been a little time that I have done this, so I can definitely build on this.

Q.   You both looked friendly at the net at the end.   Did you say something to Carla? 
ANA IVANOVIC:   I wish her good luck obviously and well done.   She's a tough player.   She's been having good year. 
I really hope she can do well. 

Q.   What do you think about Carla?   Do you think we will see her in the future top 5 or 3?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, she's been showing that level this year.   I think she has potential to do that.   Obviously clay court I would imagine is her favorite surface, too.
She's tough opponent and plays with a lot of spin.   I'm sure we'll see plenty of her in the future.

Q.   I don't want to be the one that keeps coming back to the coaching, but just trying to find a positive for you.   Do you think it'll help you build your own internal strength having to go on your own now for maybe the rest of the clay court season before you put something in place for grass? 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   I really have to rely a lot on my strengths and toughness on court.   I feel I'm setting up the points the way I want to set them up.
Today I showed some really good tennis.   Obviously I need a little work and I need to polish everything.   It's still a little bit frantic.   It's a little bit either way.
I can take a lot of positives out of this week.   I'm sure the situation will be solved.   I'm on the right path and obviously still have to get my form improved.   But it's been a good step this week. 

Q.   Just a follow‑up question on that.   I know Andrea Petkovic said coming into slam she would try not to have the coach come on court just to make herself self‑reliant because in the slams you can't. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, it's definitely‑‑ now I don't have on‑court coaching, so maybe it will be easier in a Grand Slam.   It's great for me.   Yeah, it's a good thing.
The thing is that it's about having someone who can organize the practice and give you confidence on the practice court.   You need that.   You need the patterns.   Every player is different and works differently.   I need to have that clarity, because I feel unfortunate enough that I can't hit any shot from any position. 
Sometimes I try to overdo it.   I just need someone to make things clear for me.   Say, Okay, from this position you can do this and this, but it's high‑risk shot.   Sometimes I'm like, Okay, I want to prove you wrong. 
But it's about important moments knowing exactly what have to do. 

Q.   Darren Cahill was there today.   Are you getting some help from him?
ANA IVANOVIC:   I spoke to him a little bit, but, no, he hasn't been helping me.   Obviously he still works in adidas program, so I guess he watches a little bit of our matches around. 
So, yeah. 

Q.   If organization is the issue, should we all have a whip around and buy you an organizer?   Would that help? 
ANA IVANOVIC:   No.

Q.   Because I've got 20 Euros I can lend you. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   No, trust me, in this I'm very, very good.   I'm very on the ball.   It has to be very organized, on the minute. 

Q.   On the minute?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Uh‑huh.

Q.   You set any goals for the clay season, Rome, Roland Garros, or just go and try to play as much as you can?
ANA IVANOVIC:   I really felt I started to build something this week.   I really want to keep that level and obviously getting as many matches as I can.   It's really disappointing that today I lost a really close one.   I felt like few points decided it. 
It's been the story of the season.   I really hope I can turn it around.   Obviously with hard work I can do it.   Next tournament and also next few weeks I really want to use the time to work as hard as I can to improve these, yeah, little things that I need to still. 

Q.   Your brother was here this week with you.   It is important for you to have him around?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   You know, it's a long year.   We travel so much on our own, so it's great to be in Europe for us and to have him come over.   He's coming to Rome, too, so it's really, really nice to spend some quality time with him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT