WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2016
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. ALEXANDROVA/A. Ivanovic
  6‑2, 6‑4 
   
 Q. Tell us what didn't work for you today. Talk about the match.   
ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, it was very tough. I mean, since two weeks I struggle with my right wrist. It was very hard to accelerate on my forehand. I tried to do everything possible to be fit and recover and tape it and so on.   
But, yeah, it was a little bit sore. I feel like it caused me a lot of miss‑hits. My forehand was hard to control her fast shots. I thought she played really well and served very good. Especially in the first set, she was not missing many first serves.   
   
 Q. Did you consider not playing Wimbledon?  
ANA IVANOVIC: I did. During Mallorca tournament, it really got inflamed. Then I had couple of days off. It start to calm down a little bit. Every time I would start hitting, it would flare up. I felt like I could probably manage it.   
Like I said, it's tough on grass because ball really skids through. She was hitting very, very heavy. So, yeah, it was disappointing.  
   
 Q. What is your plan now, just to rest it?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, definitely. I think I'm going to take some time off. My next tournament would be Olympics. So hopefully that will give it enough time to settle down. Hope to do some MRI and see what's going on.  
   
 Q. What do the Olympics mean to you?  
ANA IVANOVIC: It's a great honor for me to represent my country. I was already a couple of times a member of the team. To play Rio, it's been my big dream, to be part of it. I'm very, very thrilled.   
Also one of my best friends, she's Olympics swimmer, we are friends since Beijing Olympics. It's very special.  
   
 Q. There have been concerns expressed about Zika and other problems. What are your thoughts?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Well, I'm happy to go and play. I feel it's safe enough. Obviously I'm sure they're taking precautions. But, yeah, I'm playing.   
   
 Q. You just said you're going to take some time off. Any chance we can see you at the Euro supporting Germany?  
ANA IVANOVIC: I'm not sure. Maybe. But I'll definitely be supporting them.   
   
 Q. What do the Euros mean to you?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Well, of course, Serbia is not playing, so it's a little bit tough. Then I have to support the best team in the world, right?   
   
 Q. The Wimbledon towel is cherished by fans. What do those towels mean to players such as yourself?  
ANA IVANOVIC: You would be surprised how many messages we get from back home, if we could bring back one. So it's a very cherished possession.   
   
 Q. Why do you think that is?  
ANA IVANOVIC: It's a great memory, I think. It's very special. Players use it. Players like it. I know lot of players who actually save them. I save quite a lot.   
It's nice to have that as, you know, a memory.   
   
 Q. How big is your collection?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Well, since I don't really have a home, I don't know (laughter).   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT