MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 5, 2015
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. IVANOVIC/E. Svitolina
  6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   This is better than Stuttgart then.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   I thought it was a good match.  
   
 Q.   Pleasing signs of aggression coming back into your game.   Talk a little bit about what you think has changed or the last couple weeks.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   My approach a little bit to the match.   You know, was really some changes.   The way I played today I really feel that's my game, and still there were some mistakes that I was not making normally.   
I feel it's the first match that I really played the way I wanted to play, so that kind of gave my confidence.  
I knew the mistakes were part of it, so just to go through it and make a lot of winners and be aggressive again, it really gave my lots of confidence.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel you had some confidence coming back from such a tight first‑round match?   Could have gone very badly for you.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Did that give you a lot more confidence coming into this one?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   I was really my back against the wall in that first round.   She was serving for the match at 6‑5.   I thought it was not really great quality match from me, so to break through that one and then back it up with a better performance and better setup of the points and different style of the game, for me, that was big step.   
   
 Q.   This is your best win in terms of ranking of the year.   Do you think that this is the confidence boost that you needed for the rest of the clay season?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   You know, after the first‑round win, last few days I had time to a little bit think about my game and strategy and practice this a little bit more, sort of more organized a little bit.  
I felt more confident going on court, and I knew whatever happened I was on the right path.   Having a win and having chances again tomorrow, it really means a lot.   
   
 Q.   Your coach was not there today.   Any problem?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah.   I mean, yeah, on the weekend we decided to stop.   It was better.   Sort of we had a little bit different views of my game.   
That's what I felt made a big difference today, you know, some adjustments in my game.   I felt that today on court it was my real game.   It's always tough, but, yeah, sometimes you have to make the tough decisions.  
   
 Q.   So you're going to go it alone now for the rest of clay court season?   
ANA IVANOVIC:   I have a sparring partner with me.   Having what happen in the middle of the season, it's not ideal, so I am going to stick with my sparring partner for the moment and try to sort of work on the experience I have and the way I see my game as well.  
Then I will try to make a good decision, you know, and not rush.   
   
 Q.   Going to try to get somebody in place for the grass court season?   You're defending in Birmingham as well.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, the thing is I have lots of priorities actually at the moment.   I really have to work hard on building up the confidence and game the way I see my game, going in that direction.   
And also, at the same time, trying to find out and think of the right decision and right way to go.  
It's really tough.   It's middle of the season and you have to make some adjustments.   You don't really want to try someone for few months and then that doesn't work out.   
You really have to be smart about that and not rush into it.   Obviously we have some offers and opportunities, so we will see how that goes.   
   
 Q.   How did you feel the crowd today?   There was a full stadium and they were going for you.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, it was actually amazing atmosphere.   Last few years I played on this court I felt it was not as full as today.   
Today they were really behind me.   Even in the last game I felt everyone kind of excited and nervous.   I'm like, okay, guys, just calm down now.   I'm nervous enough.  
But it was great.   Great atmosphere.   So good to see.   Lots of young people as well.   That's what motivates us.   At the end of the day we're here because of them.  
   
 Q.   Your next opponent will be Carl Suarez Navarro or Julia Goerges.   Opinions about both?   Carla has had an amazing year.   She's fifth in the race.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, it's going to be actually a very different match.   I think they are both completely different style of game, and it's going to be tough match playing either.   
Carla has been playing really well lately and making finals in Miami.   You know, she's tough opponent.   We had some tough matches in the past, especially the one in Rome last year.   So I'm prepared for a very heavy match.  
On the other hand, Julia is a little bit different.   She hits a lot more and there are not as many long rallies as probably with Carla.   
Just happy to see Carla do well.   She's local favorite and a very nice girl.   I'm sure we'll see a lot of her in the future.  
   
 Q.   On the topic of your coach, is there any chance at all that you will turn like a lot of the other professionals to a super coach in the future?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   You know, it's very tough.   I had different kinds of experiences with coaches, and not many great ones, to be honest.   
I really, really have to take it one step at a time and sort of try to talk to people and also try to feel it.  
Because as a player, once you see the energy on the court as well it makes a big difference.  
   
 Q.   We spoke to you last year after you parted with Nigel and you went on to win; you've switched coaches twice now.   You're a nice person.   What is it about you that is resulting in you and coaches parting company?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   You know, it's tough to say.   I think there are a varieties of things.   I want to have a coach who will stay with me until the end of my career.   I have a fitness coach for four years, and I had one for three years before that.   With my management I been forever.   
I don't like changes.   It just always happens like this, because I always feel there is more that I can achieve and that there is more I can do.   I need a person who's going to help me do that be behind me and challenge me as well and not ‑‑   I think, okay, being a top athlete, you have to be a little bit crazy.  
You need someone who's going to step up to you on the same level and be inspired and motivated and not happy that you reached third or fourth round.  
Yeah, so I always try to see if I can do more.   
   
 Q.   In all seriousness though, do you feel it's making you stronger as a person having to go through the adjustments and changes, especially at this point in your career?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, it is tough.   I have to rely on myself.   Today on court I have no one to blame.   I have to look into myself and find answers within myself.  
It's tough.   Some people can do it for longer and some for shorter.   I really want to find the right person.   Like I said, it's very, very hard because it gets very personal.   It's very individual, very one‑to‑one.   It does get sometimes too comfortable and people take things for granted.  
That's also another problem in individual sports.   I have to find the line and balance between respect and becoming too personal.   
So there are so many things that have to come together.   It's definitely not easy, and I'm not looking forward to making that decision.   
   
 Q.   Martina Navratilova and Radwanska broke up.   Would you ever consider Navratilova to be your coach?   Do you think she would bring anything to your game?   
ANA IVANOVIC:   I respect a lot her for her achievements and for what she achieved.   I know she's helping Radwanska.   I don't know if she still does.   No?   
   
 Q.   No.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   I haven't really thought about it.   But then again, the question your colleague asked, will you go that way to get someone who has already been up there or someone who's young and motivated and has knowledge of the game.  
So it's very, very hard decision.   At the moment, honestly, I have to put it a little bit on the side and focus on my tournament.   Then hopefully over next few weeks we'll think a little more.  
   
 Q.   Who would be ideal if you could have anyone in the world?   
ANA IVANOVIC:   It's so hard.   Obviously would be someone who can sort of work with me until the end of my career.   You know, there are so many things that have to come together.   You have to be really compatible on the court.   Someone who can push me, you know.   
Also, like I spoke before, this person really needs to be strong and not be afraid to say, Look, you're not doing well.   There are many things we don't do well.   So not someone who's going to mask everything and say it's perfect.  
Someone who is going to step up and say, Work on this and this and this if you want to win these tournaments.   That's the fact.   Because we all have room for improvement.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT