DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 18, 2015
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. PLISKOVA/A. Ivanovic
  6‑2, 4‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on that?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, definitely very tough end, I thought.   She served well throughout the match.   I think in the first set it was a lot closer than the score indicated, and that kind of set a little bit tone.   
I felt like I had lots of opportunities and she was coming with the big shots.   I was really happy to come back in that second set even though I was not playing really well.  
Then in the third set I felt like I did raise my level but she did too.   Last few games were a battle and obviously very disappointing to lose my serve in that manner.  
   
 Q.   What makes her difficult?   She seems to really be picking up now.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   You know, we don't have too many players with that style of game.   You know, she hits the ball very flat.   Also, she has a very good serve.   Because she's so tall, it's very hard to pick it.  
And also her strokes, I sometimes feel like she hits it quite late, so it's very hard to sort of pick where she's going to go.   That kind of throws you off a little, but that's why she's dangerous player and I think she's going to do well.  
   
 Q.   It's very hot this month in Dubai, even more than usual.   I think it was 41 degrees at one point today.   Can you explain what it's like playing in that type of temperature?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Honestly it's a little bit, yeah, harder.   You struggle a little bit more with the breathing.   Also from that one side I felt like lots of players were struggling with their serve with the sun a little bit, but it's the same for both players.   You really have to try and find your own way to stay cool, yeah, in a match.   
   
 Q.   Aga and Venus both lost before you as top seeds. When you're preparing and in the buildup for your preparations, does that sort of unnerve a seed seeing fellow seeded players lose?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Not really.   Everyone has its own part.   I really try to focus on each match.   I knew it was going to be tough today.   She's young player upcoming.   She has nothing to lose coming into the match.   
We already had a tough one before, and I tried to focus on that.   Like I said, in the beginning of the match I still had chances which unfortunately I didn't use.   At 2‑0 I had game point.   At 3‑0 I had game point.   These are all moments I could have got back in that first set early on.  
   
 Q.   In those crucial moments, crucial points towards the end of the match, is it really just a matter of confidence?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I think it is, you know, and execution.   Yeah, I should have maybe mixed it up a little more, but I really felt like I gave my all in those games.   It was just very unfortunate to make those two double faults.  
   
 Q.   You had mentioned before the tournament that you wanted to focus on the bigger events more.   In light of this loss, are you disappointed or are you happy with the way...   
ANA IVANOVIC:   You know, to be honest, every loss is hard.   There is no secret in that.   I just try, like I said, I try to improve each match and try to learn from each match and try to enjoy.   Tough match like today, it's hard to do so.   
It's still plenty of work to be done and it's competition and I enjoy it.   I'm going to go next week and try to do better.   
   
 Q.   How was the toe today?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   It was okay.   Yeah.   It was good.   
   
 Q.   You're going to Doha?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   No, I go to Monterrey.   
   
 Q.   Why that kind of schedule?   It would seem more like, you know, direct to go to Doha.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yes, but, you know, I really enjoyed the tournament in Monterrey last year, and they kind of switched the calendar around a little bit and I had to make a decision, so I, yeah, I chose this one.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT