AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2015
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  L. HRADECKA/A. Ivanovic  6-1, 3-6, 2-6  An interview with:  ANA IVANOVIC   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  Obviously a very good start for you in the match.  What do you think sort of changed or got away from you?  ANA IVANOVIC: I think the whole match I didn't really feel like myself out there.  It was really tough for me to find rhythm a little bit. In the third set really felt like she raised her level.   Q.  Had you been hitting the ball well in practice?  The loss of rhythm, what do you chalk that up to?  Nerves?  ANA IVANOVIC: There is always nerves in the beginning.  I felt like I was maybe lacking a little bit practice this week.  I had some issues.  But I'm still, you know, I played okay in the beginning.  Just I felt second and third set I really dropped my level.   Q.  Just how disappointing is this for you considering you came out to win the Grand Slams this year?  ANA IVANOVIC: It's really disappointing.  You know, it's probably the worst thing could happen.  But still, the year is young and I really have to now sit and work on few things and just maybe try to have a different approach to this kind of event and try to see what was lacking.   Q.  Ten double-faults, did you see your serve as a problem today?  ANA IVANOVIC: You know, it was really I think all around the game.  That made a big difference.  I really felt like I couldn't really put so much power on my serve or the groundstrokes.  So many times my forehand was finishing short as well and that was very disappointing. In Brisbane my serve was on such a good level.  I really felt like I improved in the off-season.  Obviously today was really not working. I really feel it's just going to probably come back with the next match.   Q.  Did you feel more pressure coming into this slam as opposed to maybe this year?  More expectations on yourself?  ANA IVANOVIC: I didn't try to think much about that.  Like I spoke, I really feel the way you play, it determines your ranking.  I really just try to think about my game and what I have to do. You know, I really today struggled to find rhythm.  Just a little bit lost.   Q.  You're a top seed and you've been playing well, you were in the final in Brisbane.  How do you personally get over a shock like that?  ANA IVANOVIC: It's hard.  There is no easy way to do that.  But to get back on the court and back working really hard and try to see next challenge and next event. There is no easy way.  It has to hurt as well.   Q.  Are you surprised that the nerves still play such a big role?  ANA IVANOVIC: I think it will always do.  I think it does with all the players.  Just some people deal with it differently and play with it differently. I'm sure if I got through this round probably it improves.  But it was just very, very tough.  Like I said, in third set I really felt like she played great.   Q.  What did you expect from her?  You had a tough match at Wimbledon with her as well.  ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, you know, she served big in the third set and came up with some big shots.  But I really think in the second set I really let my level down a little bit and sort of gave her confidence to do that. So I really think it was both:  My level not being good and then also her improving.   Q.  How important do you think the seventh game in the second set, the 3-All game, the one deuce on her serve, you had a break point there?  ANA IVANOVIC: I think actually the important one was beginning of the second set when I had two break points and I had easy miss.  Then she played some good shots to save that game. Then she went on to break me and then got 3-Love up.  Obviously that game as well played a big part in that second set.   Q.  Is there anything that you've tried to do -- sorry to go back to the nerves -- anything off-court, practices, or...  ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I think this is important part.  You cannot just do it in a match.  You have to work on it off the court as well and work with a system in place.   Q.  What did you mean when you said take a different approach?  Do you mean this tournament?  Play more tournaments beforehand or less?  ANA IVANOVIC: No, I think just mentally how you approach each match.  I really felt good before the tournament started.  I had a great week in Brisbane.  The level was really high. But you just have to accept that you're going to have tough days and you got to go through the tough days to improve.  I'm such a perfectionist and sometimes I judge myself too much.   Q.  What are your plans looking forward?  Obviously only been out here for a couple hours.  But going into February, how do you see yourself gearing up?  ANA IVANOVIC: It's very hard, because I definitely didn't -- I plan and made schedule according to this.  My plan for the moment is to play Dubai and then start with Monterrey, Indian Wells, and Miami.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT