AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2015
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  Obviously a great start to your year.  How do you feel coming into this tournament compared to this time last year?  ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, you know, last year actually I also had a quite good start.  But I felt this year the level was a little bit different. We played I think a very good match in the finals.  It was really high level for the first tournament of the season.  So definitely feeling good coming into this week. You know, like I spoke before, last year, especially the last three Grand Slams, I didn't really do as well as I hoped for.  I really want to take it one step at a time and enjoy because I think my tennis is at a different level than it was last year.   Q.  How is your mentality coming in being a top-five player?  ANA IVANOVIC: To be honest, I try not to think too much about the rankings.  I definitely thought about it towards the end of the last year.  I really tried to make that push and finish in top five. At the moment I really want to focus on my game, what to do out there on the court, to enjoy every match because I know if I do that, the results take care of themselves, and rankings speak for themselves.  This is my main focus for this season.   Q.  How are you feeling physically?  In Brisbane, looked like there was some back strapping.  ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, a little bit.  But you always have little pains, especially in the beginning of the season.  No matter how hard you work in the off-season, matches are a completely different story.  It takes time to get that match fitness.  A little bit different kind of movement. But I had the week to recover.  I feel fit.   Q.  What about this Grand Slam particularly stands out for you when compared with the other three?  ANA IVANOVIC: I think each Grand Slam, it's very specific and very individual in the atmosphere and the feel about it.  Here I really feel people get excited about tennis.  You know, they love sport.  They love to cheer.  They get loud.  That's exciting. There's lots of kids always out here that come and support us.  Obviously it's their summer holidays so people are a little bit more relaxed, I feel.  But it is very exciting. Since I don't have a tournament at home, this is like second home for me.   Q.  Do you think it's louder than New York?  ANA IVANOVIC: Maybe not louder, but different, definitely.   Q.  Did you feel like the off-season was different because of the IPTL, everyone sort of coming together in Asia?  ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, definitely.  It was different.  To be honest, I was really happy to be part of that innovation sort of thing.  To compete in a team for that long, with different sort of people from different countries, different kind of environment, it was very special.  It definitely brought some fun into off-season, lighthearted. But it was a little hard to do all the traveling, to be honest.  I did travel a lot last season.  That added a little bit to it.  But overall, I still enjoyed it.  If I had the choice again, I would do it all over again.   Q.  You said you want to do better at the slams.  How do you do that?  How do you do better?  Scheduling, focus?  ANA IVANOVIC: I know there is a variety of things.  Obviously, you know, confidence, preparation, everything comes to play.  But also I think it's a lot to do with confidence.  It takes time for certain things to fall into place. Last year I really felt I made big steps towards winning more matches, beating top players.  These kinds of things you sort of have to have in place in order to do well at the big events. I feel like I'm ready for next step.  Also I feel comfortable in my team.  I feel I can communicate with them more.  Last year at some points it was not the case.  Then also US Open was just a fresh start with new team, with new coach.  So it takes time to get used to. Now I feel I can communicate with them more and they can help me.   Q.  If it comes down to confidence, do you take confidence from Brisbane?  ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, definitely.  Also the way I finished last year.  I mean, last couple of months of last season, they were great, such a high level.  Also Brisbane tournament, that's gives me confidence.  I have lots of tough matches.  I had all kind of challenges there. So I definitely feel ready for this week.   Q.  When you played in Brisbane, what was the secret to your fitness?  ANA IVANOVIC: It was a high level of tennis.  Both were hitting seriously heavy shots.  I don't know how it was seen on TV, but in real life it really felt fast for both of us. That's exciting because sometimes you maybe look more for rhythm or you're more cautious.  In this way we both were hitting full out.  It was great to test that out, as well.   Q.  If you had to pick one woman on the WTA who is the fittest, could you pick just one person?  ANA IVANOVIC: I mean, there is lots of girls who are getting fitter and fitter.  Caroline ran a marathon.  I don't think I can do that, to be honest (laughter). Radwanska, she's a type of player that does lot of running on court. It really depends what you consider, you know, because there are some girls who maybe hit harder, have more power, but then those girls that have very high endurance.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT