BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 10, 2015
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. SHARAPOVA/A. Ivanovic
  6‑7, 6‑3, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Chances, huh?   Sort of up and down the whole way.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, but I really thought it was a high‑quality match from the first moment on.   There were not many unforced errors, I would say.   We both played high‑quality match I thought.  
Last two sets were a lot closer than maybe score indicates.   There were really few points that decided here and there.   
But overall a little bit disappointed that I didn't manage to come back in that third set.   I was really, really close.   You know, that game on 4‑3 when I was serving, it was very little that decided.   
   
 Q.   Were you really hurt third set?   You took the medical timeout.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   I had the tape on my stomach muscle from the previous day that I felt it a little bit.   Because of the humidity and heat it was coming off so I needed to re‑ tape.  
So that was the reason I needed to.  
   
 Q.   So it was okay?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yes.   I felt it, but it was fine.   It was just re‑ tape.  
   
 Q.   Coming back from that 3‑Nil, when you were 3‑Nil down, was that the turning point?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   I really felt at 3‑Love, that game when was serving, it was very close one.   I really felt more energy and I was feeling I got back into the match and then managed to break her.  
That was big game an 3‑2.   If I managed to hold then, I think it would be a little bit different situation.   But still, I had a lot of chances and opportunities.   Still a lot of the good things I did today which I'm happy about.  
   
 Q.   I know it's only one tournament, but how does that set you up?   You're not playing Sydney?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   No.  
   
 Q.   You will just prepare for Melbourne?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   Now it's about recovery and getting the best possible preparation for Melbourne.   It's another event.   This was great week for me; great way to start the season.  
I really hope I can keep the level and raise it next week in Melbourne.  
   
 Q.   Four titles in 2014 and Tokyo was great for you.   Feel like your level is close to that?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I think with the matches against top players I show that I'm on that level.   I really enjoy those competitions and those tough, tough moments during the match.  
It's just now about being consistent and keep knocking on the door.  
   
 Q.   What would you have done today?   You were so close with her.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I was.   I think there were few points really that decided.   She had great comebacks few times.   She got back the balls that I thought were not coming over the net.  
You know, that's why she's where she is and that's why she's such a great champion.   But that's disappointing for me, that I didn't manage to stay on top.  
But, still, like I said, it was lots of big games and big points that I did well.  
   
 Q.   So if you win a Grand Slam in two or three weeks, would you be real happy?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yes, very happy.   (Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   Could you actually do it?   Semifinals?   Finals?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah.   I mean, that's why I'm here.   That's what I work towards and my main going in this year.   I want to focus on the big events.   Last year didn't really work out the way I wanted it to.   This year I really want to make a push at it.   
Of course it's tough.   Everyone aims for the same thing.   I really have to put my head down and work hard for each match.  
Sometimes you get tough matches in the first, second, third round were you never know.   But you have to get through those.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT