BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 9, 2015
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. IVANOVIC/V. Lepchenko
  7‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Talk us through that last few games.   Up 5‑1 in the second set.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, you know, I really felt like I raised my level in the second set.   Even though it was 5‑1 up it was still a lot of close games.   I managed to actually win all of those close, close games, so I was really happy about that.  
Then facing some match points I really felt like I didn't do much wrong, except that one probably on serve at had at 5‑3, I believe.   No, 5‑2.   5‑2, yes.   But, I think she played really well, and especially from 5‑3 on she really raised the level.  
I played some great tennis at 5‑3 on her service game, and she was coming up with some great serves and winners when she needed them.  
Then the last game I really tried to take my time.   I knew she was going to go for it because she had her back against the wall and she was going to go big.  
I was really happy to stay calm and save break point and then win that game.   
   
 Q.   No sense of panic at all?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Definitely your heart was raising a little bit, especially that it was really becoming a battle.   Like I said, all the way up to that point, even though I was 5‑1 up, still felt like a battle all the way through.  
I really tried to take it one point at a time and do the things that I've been working on and practicing and try not think too much about the score.  
   
 Q.   Lepchenko's comeback against Stosur when she was down 5‑1, was that in the back of your mind at all?   
ANA IVANOVIC:   One thought, but not really.   I really try to take it ever match as different.   I really felt like I had the match in my hands and I had to go for it.  
I was really happy I did that.   
   
 Q.   How would you describe you week in terms of preparation for the Australian Open?   
ANA IVANOVIC:   I think I had everything.   Great first match, battle in the second, and also battle today.  
I felt compared to yesterday today was a little bit different.   I felt a little bit higher intensity today, and obviously it was hotter.   I had also night match, day match.   
So it was really good to get this all in.   Obviously tomorrow is going to be another challenge.  
   
 Q.   How is the abdominal?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, it's just a bit sore.   First tournament of the season you're always going to get a little bit pains and niggles here and there.  
That's why recovery is really important.   Last night was really quick turnaround, and now I'll have a little bit more time for rest and recovery.  
   
 Q.   You played Maria Sharapova four times last year pretty close.   Cincy was 7‑5 in the third.   Kind of talk about it if you play her tomorrow.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I enjoy playing against top players and having these kind of battles, because that's what you want to test yourself against.  
She's in great form.   Last year we had really close battles, and that match in Cincinnati was actually one of my favorite wins probably because it was really tough match and I managed to save match points and actually win.  
So it's going to be I think a great tennis for both of us tomorrow to also see the level of the game we are at.   But I look forward to it.  
   
 Q.   Not to call things before they happen, but same we question with Svitolina.   The Indian Wells match I remember being quite a war.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yes, I was actually watching her play this week, and she really improved.   I think we're going to see a lot of her in the future.   She is very talented young player, and I think she's going to really make the breakthrough I think this year.  
You know, it would be tough match again.   I played quite few times against her.   Few times we had close matches.   Last year also Cincinnati we played against each other and it was a little bit easier.  
But still, you know, it's going to be very tough match.   Final is final.   It's always very special.   
   
 Q.   You remember in 2008, Aussie against Maria in the final.   Talk about your memories of that.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I remember that match, you know, very vividly.   I felt like I had a lot of chances in the first set.   It was my second Grand Slam final and I really thought I could do it, you know.   
It was quite disappointing the way second set finish.   I remember it was 6‑2.   I didn't really sleep much after that, you know.   That was tough loss, but it made my stronger.   After this I won Indian Wells and French Open.   
   
 Q.   So you were thinking, I can actually win this before you went on the court?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yes.   Yeah, definitely.   The year before against Justine in French Open it was first time and the nerves overwhelm me.   
Against Maria I really felt confident going into the match, and all the way through I felt like I could do it.  
That's why it was really, really tough loss for me.  
   
 Q.   You been in Melbourne before you came here.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   How long you been in Australia?   
ANA IVANOVIC:   About a month.   No, three weeks, four weeks, something like this.  
   
 Q.   To do some training?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yes.   I arrive on 20 December.   Something like this.   Feels so long ago.  
   
 Q.   Overall just been more consistent week to week, month to month, which took a while, but why now?   
ANA IVANOVIC:   What is that?   
   
 Q.   You been more consistent over the last year, much more improved.   Why?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   My game you mean overall?   
   
 Q.   Yeah, you overall.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   I really feel I have different mental approach to it.   I struggled to be in the spotlight.   For me, this is something to took time to get used to because I was very shy.   It was really overwhelming for me and all the pressures.   I always play tennis as a game and not all these pressures and expectations.  
It takes time to learn about yourself, to mature.   Now I really try to take my time and enjoy on the court and off the court.   The time I spend on court it's more quality.   I really focus 100% on that.   And then when I'm off the court I can relax and enjoy.  
This is something that I was lacking in the past, because coaches really tried to control and I didn't feel like I had time for myself.   It was all about tennis and just spending time on court or this.  
I felt like I had no time to go to movies with friends, you know, and this is what every person needs.   So I really feel since maybe year and a half I found this balance.   Then obviously it takes time for things to get in place and change, and I really feel I found that now.   
   
 Q.   I think if the WTA had a most‑likely‑to‑fall‑down‑during‑a‑match award that you would win.   What's up with that?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   I tried to make splits but just doesn't work.   (Smiling.)  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT