BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 8, 2015
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. IVANOVIC/K. Kanepi
  4‑6, 6‑4, 6‑3 
   
 Q. Huge congratulations on coming through a very difficult match tonight.   You were fighting all the way through.   Talk a little bit about how you were able to turn that around.  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely I had very slow start.   Actually I felt like I was hitting the ball all right, but I was just missing the easy put‑aways.   She was not missing.   She was on the ball.   I felt like she was reading my game really well.   
I nearly came back in the first set, but was really happy I kept my composure for the second and definitely in the third to stay on top.  
   
 Q.   Were you surprised at all by how well she was playing tonight, and is it good for to have this kind of test at this stage of the season?   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Definitely it was a great test.   I felt like she was reading my game very well and she was a lot of times waiting in the corner that I was hitting the ball, so I was getting a little bit frustrated with that.  
I wanted to mix up a little more.   I should've maybe come in a few more times, but overall I am happy to come through.   
   
 Q.   Semifinals now.   You'll play Varvara Lepchenko.   What is your plan to recover and prepare for that match?   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I have doubles coming up, and it's going to be very important for me tonight to get good recovery and good sleep actually, because I'm playing tomorrow afternoon.   It's going to be quick turnaround, so it's going to be very important to recover the right way.  
  
(After pulling out of doubles. )  
   
 Q.   Unfortunately you've had to pull out of your doubles match with Angelique.   Just explain that and what you injured and the reasons.  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, unfortunately I had to pull out of doubles.   I felt a little bit my abdominal during the match, and obviously it was a tough match.   With late finish it would be a very quick turnaround for tomorrow.   
I spoke so Angie and we both greed it was the best to pull out so I could get the best possible recovery for tomorrow's match.   It's unfortunate, but we'll have plenty of tournaments coming up.  
   
 Q.   And it's not too serious that you should hopefully be fine for your singles tomorrow?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yes, yes, I will be fine.   I just want to make sure I get the proper recovery.   As I said, it's not too long before I have to be on court again.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT