BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 5, 2015
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You'd be defending Auckland; why come back to Brisbane?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, because of the rules.   You know, I really had great time in Auckland last year, but also enjoy coming here.   This is a great event.   They always take really good care of us, you know, the players, so it's nice to be back here. 

Q.   What was the key to turning things around last year?
ANA IVANOVIC:   It's just finding the balance between working hard and actually enjoying.   It felt like it was really hard work in the past years and I never had the results I wanted.   It was really hard for me.
So I really started to enjoy everything again:   my life and traveling and being on tour.   That made a big difference, because it made me more relaxed and made me enjoy competition more. 

Q.   The Australian Open in particular, beating Serena, that really kick started the year for you, didn't it?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   Winning a title in Auckland and then reaching quarterfinal last year in Australian Open set the tone a little bit for the year. 
You know, it's always great to see results.   Auckland was my first title in a while.   Yeah, so then last year I had four titles, which is great.   It's the most titles I've had in a season.

Q.   The ranking is back to where you wanted it so the seeding is taken care of it, but your best major result is quarterfinal.   Is it a matter of now getting a bit further, semifinal?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   That's my goal, you know.   It's something that takes time, and last year I was really more consistent and obviously at the end of the year I was having quite few wins over top players, and that's something that I was looking for for a while.
And now the Grand Slams, the bigger events, that's my main focus for this season is to probably play less but focus on the big events and hopefully go far. 

Q.   Anything change this year coming up?   Is it change all over or kind of the same as last year?
ANA IVANOVIC:   No.   You know, I have the Serbian team with me and they are great guys.   I feel very fortunate to have such a positive attitude around me.   This is something for me I realize is very, very important.
Still now I approach every tournament and match with a little bit more enjoyment, you know.   Of course there are still nerves and everything, but I try to just embrace every situation, you know. 
I love competition and challenges, and that's what drives me.   I really feel I can go far in the big events and hopefully get another Grand Slam title in the years to come.
So that's something that motivates me. 

Q.   (Question regarding vacation in December.)
ANA IVANOVIC:   You know, after Singapore I had some time off in Belgrade with my family.   It was my birthday, too, so that was very nice. 
And then I played ITPL, and that kind of took a little bit.   There was lots of traveling, so I didn't really have time for any vacation.   But, you know, around Christmas...

Q.   So was that a good thing or a bad thing?
ANA IVANOVIC:   It was lots of fun actually.   I really enjoyed having matches and having team spirit.   That's something that you don't experience much in individual sport.
Also got to see countries I have never seen before.   It was amazing experience, but it was tiring because it was a lot of traveling.   After the whole year of traveling a lot and moving around, doing four or five cities in two, three weeks, it's kind of tough.
But I had a nice time and spent some time over Christmas with the family, which was nice. 

Q.   So you weren't tired, saying, Oh, my goodness; I can't believe I am doing this one more time?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, after was a little bit.   I mean, I was like, Okay, maybe I should have taken rest.   But, no, when I look back I really enjoyed it.   It took me some time to recover after it, but still was great experience.   If I had choice, I would do it again. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT