BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 20, 2014
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/A. Ivanovic
  6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Very competitive match except when it really mattered at the end of each set.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely very disappointed that both sets I made few easy errors in the last service game.   Especially in the first set, you know.   I had a break point in 4‑All which I didn't use and kind of got down a little bit on myself.  
Then I rushed a little bit that service game, so that was a little bit disappointing.   I felt I created lots of chancing, especially off the ground.  
But the serve made a big difference today.   
   
 Q.   Just the atmosphere out there, playing on that arena for the first time, what was it like?   How were the conditions?   
ANA IVANOVIC:   It was great atmosphere.   Stadium was full and it was great to see.   They were really getting into the match.   
Yeah, it was really exciting to play.  
   
 Q.   How were the lights?   It seemed like both of you especially early on were having a lot of double fault issues, maybe toss into the lights or something?   
ANA IVANOVIC:   No, actually felt fine.   It was really good.   Exactly like the practice week.   
   
 Q.   It was a tough service day for you.   Was that just an issue of nerves?   Just a bad day?   Do you have any explanation for it?   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I was rushing a little bit.   She was putting a lot of pressure on my serve.   She served really well today I thought and created more pressure on my service game.  
I didn't feel my rhythm, so I was trying to make more first serves.   In the second set I did that, but against Serena sometimes that's not good enough, and it wasn't good enough today.   
Off the groundstrokes I made few easy errors in that last game, bu I think the serve was the main difference today.  
   
 Q.   Is your takeway from this match one of, it was so close I had it; I'm disappointed; or is it that despite all that, a bad service day, you still were able to create some chances?   Is it a positive or negative experience?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Definitely something that I have to work on, you know, in the future to improve for my next match, because that's going to be important.   
You come up against the best, you really have to try and make all parts of your game at that level.   That's going to be my big focus for the next matches.   
But, you know, I really off the ground felt great and was very competitive.   I even had more chances I felt off the ground.  
Definitely I'm going to take that into the next match, but this is something that I want to work on and hopefully improve for the next couple matches.   
   
 Q.   You had an incredible number of really good dropshots today.   Was that part of your strategy with her going in?   She's had movement issue with the knee lately.   Or was that just normal tactics?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   I just tried to mix it up a little bit.   Against Serena really to have use variety of the shots, and that's what I tried to do.  
   
 Q.   Is it more difficult to play Serena in your first match of the tournament compared to usually three or four matches down the line?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely makes a big difference.   Normally you have a few matches to warm up before you come up against the best.  
This was tough first match, but every match is kind of tough.   It was a little bit different, but you have to play against the best so it's okay.   
   
 Q.   Do you still think about your volley at 4‑4, 30‑40 in the first set?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   That was a huge point, I think, but it was actually quite hard volley.   Yeah, the ball was dropping fast.   I didn't come in fast enough.  
It was just a bit unlucky.   I felt a created a lot of opportunities, and even that point did make a difference, but might have not if I had a game.   Just that the next game I kind of played loose.   
   
 Q.   Currently there are a couple girls born in the '90s playing right now.   Do you feel like a veteran?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I do.   I do.   You know, it's been a while, but it's great to see young, upcoming players doing so well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT