BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 19, 2014
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ANDREW KRASNY:   Ladies and gentlemen, Ana Ivanovic. 

Q.   Obviously one of your ambitions this year was to reach the Finals here.   Is it satisfaction or relief that you could do it again after quite a long gap?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely it is.   It's been my goal for actually many years to get back to top 10 and to reach the WTA Finals.
To actually make it happen this year, it means a lot to me.   I put a lot of hard work in and it's been a long season.   Played a lot of the matches, and good matches.   It's the most tournament victories I had, so I felt like I deserved this spot. 
But still I had to make sure it happened.   So now being here, it's a great honor and pleasure for me.

Q.   Does it feel like validation for what you've worked for to be back here?   This is sort of a big cut off goal between the ones that are at the top and the ones that aren't quite there. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely this is not about ranking.   It's just being the best out of the whole year.   It's a great feeling. 
You know, you work so hard and the rankings, they take care of themselves.   Just being part of this elite, it's a special feeling. 

Q.   You said before that the first time you made the Championships that you maybe took it a little bit for granted that you would be there again and again and again.   This time being here at the Championships, what are you trying to savor, enjoy, or not take for granted? 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I really try to enjoy every moment of it.   It's different kind of system having round robin and playing lots of matches against top players.   That's what I work hard for and that's what you want.
I remember we were just talking about the first time I played in Madrid and then the very next year in Doha.   It felt like it's just another tournament.   Now it actually does feel special because I know how hard you have to work to make it. 

Q.   Are you surprised by your form this year and your results? 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, not really.   I worked really hard and I've been playing well for a long time.   I just did not have the consistency that I showed this year. 
You know, this is something that makes me really happy, because I did learn a lot from all the past experiences, good and bad.
I overcame a lot.   And to be back to top 10 again, I really feel I deserve it. 

Q.   Just talk about your group briefly.   You have, Genie Simona, and Serena in there.   Obviously no match is easy at the Championships, but you've got a pretty tough group. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, every match is tough in every group you're going to be in.   It's going be a hard one.   I feel like I have really different opponents, all a little bit different, so it's going to be every time a new preparation and new tactics and way to approach the match.
But, you know, it's just very important to start sharp in the first point and first game.   Every game matters at this level, so... 
But I'm really excited.   Like I spoke before, it's going to be good challenge and I love it.   This is something that I've been working hard for, and I want to enjoy it, too. 

Q.   Does 2009 seem like a long time ago? 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah.   It feels like the other life.   Yeah, definitely does. 

Q.   Because why five years later, does it feel differently?
ANA IVANOVIC:   I think in a way we are very fortunate because we travel so much.   We compete week in, week out.   I feel like there is so many experiences that we have weekly.
You know, even Auckland seems like two years ago, because so many things happen in the meantime on and off the court.   Also you change a lot.   You change your views on things.
This is what I feel happens.   So I feel like I'm different person comparing to 2008 or 2009.   I experienced lots of good and bad.   You learn so you much about yourself, too.
In that sense as well it feels like long time ago. 

Q.   It seems over time, and particularly this year, that you seem to have embraced your stardom and yourself in a way.   I don't know if that's because of Twitter and Instagram, or maybe that's just the perception from the outside.   What are your thoughts on that and whether or not that has had any impact and how much do you think that has had any impact on the court?
ANA IVANOVIC:   That's why I started Twitter and Instagram actually.   Because I‑‑ like I spoke just now, before I really felt like I changed also in this sense because I started to feel more comfortable with myself.   I matured.   It helped me to be okay with myself and who I am as a person and to embrace everything that comes with the job that I do.
For me, I really struggled to be in the spotlight.   It was really strange when I won French Open, when I was No. 1 in the world.   It took me some time to accept this and to be okay.
Now I actually enjoy it.   That's why I think it shows on and off the court I'm much more relaxed because I'm much more content with myself. 

Q.   Since you were No. 1 in 2008, how has your game changed? 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, I think it changed a lot.   The depth of women's tennis is just much bigger now than it was back then, I feel.   There is so much more young players coming up, and tougher opponents from the first rounds on.
Like we see in most of the tournaments and the Grand Slams, there are lots of upsets early on.   This wasn't the case probably that much in the past.
It could be the reason for technology improving and courts and balls being different, but I think it's exciting.   You need good rivalry in sport.

Q.   You look lovely today. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Thank you.

Q.   With the recent success of tennis and sports personalities branching out into different domains like acting, fashion and even candy, do you have any plans to branch out into, say, modelling since you're such a beautiful person?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Thank you.   There was lots of compliments in that question. 
Well, you know, you never know where life can take you.   I'm very fortunate to be doing what I love.
But also, it's not something that's going to last forever.   Tennis has opened up so many doors and possibilities for myself. 
At the moment I'm doing lots of work with UNICEF, and that's something that fulfills me.   Later maybe I can have some opportunities that I can embrace.
We're all just girls at the end of the day and we enjoy fashion.   Everyone has different dreams, but still tennis is my main focus.   We'll see where it takes. 

Q.   Can you just tell us a little bit about how you experience in Singapore has been like so far and your impressions of the city. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   I actually really enjoy city accept it's a little bit too humid.   It's very hot.   I think it's a great city and definitely growing.   I was here few years ago and it's changed a lot. 
I didn't have time to see much this time around, but hopefully later today or during the week I'll have more time to experience it. 

Q.   Judging by your 2014 campaign, you had very good tournament but you kind of faltered on the bigger stage.   Do you think you peak too soon?   Will you schedule your tournaments next year better?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely I'll plan it differently.   You know, it's a different position now being in the top 10.   I'll definitely look into it.
But the thing is also that it's been a long time since I competed at such a high level.   I played lots of matches this year, and obviously my goal for next year will be to perform better on the higher stage. 

Q.   How are you feeling physically coming into the tournament?   Injury‑free?   100%? 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah.   No, I feel physically very good.   Just need a little bit more sleep, you know, with the jet lag.
Other than that, everything else is good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT