CHINA OPEN
October 4, 2014
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. SHARAPOVA/A. Ivanovic
      6‑0, 6‑4

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   What was going through your mind after the last challenge?
    ANA IVANOVIC:   You know, it was not about the last challenge.   It was just very tough match for me today.   I felt really flat on the court. 
    You know, I was trying to come back in that second set.   That point was very important.   But still I had to do lot of work.   I didn't feel at my best today. 
    But still it was a great week. 

Q.   Energy‑wise, was it just a matter of the play catching up to you?   I saw some tape on your leg.   What accounted for the flatness?
    ANA IVANOVIC:   There is no secret, it's been a lot of matches this year for me.   Also this week was very emotional.   I had some really tough matches, qualifying for Singapore.   All these things came together.   I was not getting as much sleep as well.   Now it's a matter of recovering and getting fit for the last event of the year. 

Q.   You're the second player to sit there and say they couldn't sleep last night.   Petra was struggling with it as well.   Was there any particular reason?
    ANA IVANOVIC:   I mean, it's excitement.   There are so many good things happening.   I played some great tennis last few weeks.   That's definitely very positive.   I've been working very hard for it. 
    You know, Singapore is approaching.   It's a new event.   We're all excited about it.   It always feels special to be part of it. 
    When I made it for first time in Madrid, Doha, I took it a little bit for granted.   You understand the season is long, you played lots of matches, you fight for it.   To achieve something that's been my dream for a while, it's amazing. 

Q.   With already qualifying, are you planning to take the next couple weeks off and rest and be prepared for Singapore or stay with the schedule you had?
    ANA IVANOVIC:   I'm going to go to Linz and then take it from there. 

Q.   What kind of positive things do you think you can take away from the China Open this week?
    ANA IVANOVIC:   I played some great tennis.   I had tough matches.   Each match was a battle.   Against Sabine the other day, I thought it was high‑quality tennis.   She's tough opponent.   I was just have very happy to be in the semifinal for the first time here. 

Q.   How would you describe your rivalry with Maria Sharapova?
    ANA IVANOVIC:   Oh, it's been few years now that we are, yeah, rivals.   In 2007 and '08 it was a little bit more, then it subsided a little bit.   Now it's getting to that point again. 
    I'm exciting.   I think in women's tennis, we need this kind of rivalry.   To be part of it, still be part of it, you know, at this stage of my career, it's amazing. 

Q.   How surprised were you with how well she was serving?   Nine aces.   Looked like it had more pop than she's had in the past.   From your perspective, what were you seeing?
    ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I mean, she definitely played bigger today, I felt.   But also I felt my reaction wasn't really there.   It was very hard for me to read the game a little bit.   I was always one step back.   That also affects, yeah, the side of the match. 
    Even when I played some good tennis, she came up with amazing shots.   She was really staying closer to the baseline and she was very aggressive today. 

Q.   You made it clear at the beginning of the year to go back to the top 10 and qualify for Singapore are your goals.   Do you have any new goals for now or will you wait till the season finishes and go from there?
    ANA IVANOVIC:   I still want to focus on the next few tournaments that I have.   I want to finish the season on a high note, definitely reset my goals for the next season. 
    This was a great setup for me to be in a position to win a lot of matches and to win against top players.   I still have goals to win slams in the future.   That's something I want to aim towards. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT