CHINA OPEN
September 29, 2014
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. IVANOVIC/B. Bencic
      6‑2, 6‑1

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   How is the thigh feeling?
    ANA IVANOVIC:   It's actually better.   It was hamstring insertion and little bit of hip.   But it's feeling better. 
    I had a few days off.   You know, still working good on recovery.   But today in the match I didn't feel it, so that was good. 

Q.   Around the Lotus Court there were five Serbian flags and numerous posters of yourself.   Why do you think Serbian players such as yourself and Djokovic are so popular here in Beijing?
    ANA IVANOVIC:   Actually, you know, it's hard to say.   But we both enjoy coming back here and competing.   It's very encouraging to see our flags, especially so far away from home. 
    We travel so much, it's something we miss.   So to see our flags and people that come out and support, it means a lot to us.

Q.   You said you enjoy coming back here numerous times.   In the past the farthest you've made it is the quarterfinals.   Anything different you'll try this year to make it to the finals and get those fans excited?
    ANA IVANOVIC:   Every year is different and every match is different.   We have seen in the past there is so many good players out there, they can beat anyone. 
    My goal will be to get further than quarterfinals.   But, you know, still I want to take it one match at a time, enjoy.   Conditions are very different past few weeks, so it takes some adjustment. 
    I'm really enjoying my time here so I hope I can stay around for a little bit. 

Q.   There was I don't want to say the controversy but the moment with Bencic after your challenge was called barely in.   She was arguing back and forth with the chair umpire.   Do you think she let her emotions get hold of her at that point?   It seemed her game became a little more sloppy. 
    ANA IVANOVIC:   I think sometimes these moments in a match happen.   You know, she let the ball go basically, so it was her mistake.   She thought the ball was going out.   It's very hard.   But sometimes these things also can help you, you know, to get sharper and more aggressive. 
    You know, she's great player and she has great potential.   She's very young still.   But I think she has a bright future in front of her.   We're going to see plenty more of her. 

Q.   Were you feeling the leg in Tokyo?   How much of that was just the timing of the turnaround to Wuhan, having to play your first match right off the plane?
    ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, last few matches in Tokyo I was feeling my legs a little bit, and my hips.   In Wuhan it was just very, very hard schedule‑wise to play back‑to‑back.   I didn't have time to recover.   Basically arrived almost at 11:30, midnight, at the hotel without any recovery.   Next day to be up, go straight to the site, without adjustments was very hard. 
    Then I slipped a little bit at the end of the second set and I felt the pull.   So I was very, very scared.   I didn't want to risk.   It was tough to play, you know.   But Anastasia, she played well. 

Q.   How much are the WTA Finals weighing on you at all?   Is it a goal?   Are you scheduling the rest of your tournaments around it? 
    ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, you know, it determines everything.   Lots of changes if you make it or not. 
    You know, it's been my big goal since beginning of year.   It's something I want to work hard towards.   I can't get ahead of myself.   There still is tennis to be played.   I want to do well here. 
    Everyone earns a spot there.   I feel like I've been so good the whole year.   I was working hard towards it, so I want to keep doing that.

Q.   A lot of players will say the Finals are their goal for the season.   Some fans may look at it and say it's just a tournament at the end of the year.   You explain it. 
    ANA IVANOVIC:   It's a competition.   We're all competitive.   Especially at the top, it's where you want to be.   It's a special tournament because it's top eight.   You feel like you work so hard all year and you deserve this reward basically. 
    It's very special just because it's only eight players.   You know, we're all excited that it's held in Singapore this year.   Everything looks beautiful.   Yeah, we're all very motivated to play there and to see. 

Q.   Bencic played really well today.   Did you expect that the match would be so easy?
    ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, I didn't really think so much about that.   I tried to focus on my game, what I had to do.   I knew she was dangerous opponent.   She had a great run at the US Open and last months she's been playing so well. 
    I really tried to take care of my game and step up when I needed to.   So I was very pleased with the result. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT