U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2014
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  K. PLISKOVA/A. Ivanovic  7-5, 6-4   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  You played so well in the first round.  You were saying you were confident and at peace coming into this tournament.  What happened out there today?  ANA IVANOVIC: It was very tough out there for me today.  I really struggled to find my rhythm and made way too many unforced errors. Yeah, it was just really bad day.  She served well, and she played good at important points, but I think I just did not play as well as I did.   Q.  Considering how well you played the first round, what we talked about the other day, how disappointing is it for you to make an exit at this stage of the tournament?  ANA IVANOVIC: You know, it's very disappointing.  It's never easy, you know, to finish, and especially this early.  I was really, you know, hoping I can make a good run and push. But, you know, I'm definitely going to assess what went wrong and what I can work on.  You know, still, I thought I had pretty good summer. You know, very disappoint today finish this early and in this manner, you know, because I really felt it wasn't my game out there today.   Q.  What most impressed you about your opponent, and what are your thoughts on her capabilities?  ANA IVANOVIC: You know, she served very well.  I also thought she actually moved quite well considering her height.  She had a good reach. She does hit the ball quite flat.  You know, she played well in important points and made some good shots.   Q.  Would you like to play best-of-five sets?  ANA IVANOVIC: No (laughter).   Q.  Obviously a good summer you had and then another not good run at a slam, maybe like at the French, also.  What do you think has been tough for you about translating the success you have had at these leadup events to slams the last couple of slams?  ANA IVANOVIC: Yes, this is exactly what I think I have to reassess.  I had great leadups to every Grand Slam.  I played a lot of matches and won lot of matches.  And big matches, as well. At the Grand Slams I just haven't performed that well.  It's something that I'm definitely going to work on and see where I can improve, because that's definitely, you know, big aim for me for next season.   Q.  Have you felt different on court at the slams?  ANA IVANOVIC: You know, I do put a lot of expectations on myself.  You know, I tried to, yeah, overanalyze and overthink instead of just playing the game. It's a work in process.  But, you know, I really think I have potential to do well, and that's something I want to change for next year.   Q.  How do you think can you deal with the situation of overanalyzing and overthinking?  ANA IVANOVIC: You know, I think there are lots of exercises to try and do this and to stop, you know, just going and playing the game.  I think I have done really well.  I changed a lot in that manner. But, you know, still sometimes when I want it too much, then I go back to those patterns.  But it's really changing a lot. Like I said, you know, I really want to reassess how to approach the Grand Slams maybe differently and see what I did wrong in my preparation to them.   Q.  A lot of upsets occur on that court.  Do you feel differently playing there as opposed to Ashe?  Is it less intense or something?  ANA IVANOVIC: You know, it's definitely, you know, less intense than on Ashe.  It's still just a court.  We still have to go out there and execute our game. I haven't done that today.   Q.  You were saying the other day that you learned after being No. 1 and dealing with the pressure that you really need to get back to really enjoying playing tennis.  I mean, do you find that when you come to the slams that the pressure is so great that you stop enjoying the game of tennis, that that might affect you?  ANA IVANOVIC: A little bit maybe I look more at the outcome rather than just taking each game at a time. Yeah, like I said, maybe it's a different approach to the Grand Slams that I have to do.  Yeah, just because in the other tournaments I feel I'm a little bit different. But, you know, I have a good team around me, and I'm sure I'm going to find a way.  That's what I love.  I love competition.   Q.  Specifically what do you think you did not do well today?  ANA IVANOVIC: You know, my rhythm was really off.  And, yeah, my forehand wasn't working at all.  I made quite a lot of unforced errors from that side and I couldn't rely on it.  I felt like I was not pushing her out wide enough and I was not opening the court, because I wasn't confident enough.  It was a little bit gusty out there. But like I said, I really feel like I was not pushing her enough.   Q.  When you think about Serena going for her 18th major, what strikes you most about what she's accomplished and the way she's played after so many years?  ANA IVANOVIC: Well, I think it's amazing achievement, you know.  I think she has even potential to break the record.  She has a big game. It just shows how consistent she is and how good she is.  I think in women's tennis we are lucky to have someone like her, someone people can look up to and be inspired by it.   Q.  On the other side, Roger Federer is also going for that number.  When you watch him play, what do you enjoy most or what do you focus on most?  ANA IVANOVIC: You know, I think it's a little bit different.  I mean, Serena has such a powerful game. You know, on the other hand, Roger, he, as well.  He also plays very elegant.  You know, it's very enjoyable to watch him.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT