WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2014
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. LISICKI/A. Ivanovic
  6/4, 3/6, 6/1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Tough going out there today.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I think we had it all:   dark, rain, and everything.   
But I really started well this morning first up, and then the break didn't really do well with my game and where I was at.  
But overall I think she served unbelievable in the third set.   She played really, really good, a lot better than the last time we played.  
   
 Q.   Is it disappointing because you felt this was a Wimbledon you could really get to the far end of?   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, you know, every year you try your best.   She's in top form.   She has always played well here, and I knew that.   She's been serving big.  
Even on Saturday I felt I was really close.   I had my chances.   But when it was very close, she played aggressive tennis and it was going her way.  
Obviously very disappointed with the loss, but I really gave my best out there in all three times we stepped on the court.   She was the better player.   
   
 Q.   You ever been involved in a match before that lasted for three days?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, I have actually.   Long time ago I played once on Saturday and then I had to continue on Monday.   
   
 Q.   I know it's quite soon, but if you put into context everything you achieved on grass this year, what positives can you take out of it?   
ANA IVANOVIC:   You know, winning title on grass, it's a great effort for me.   I enjoy my time here.   Like I said, I really try my best.   She served well today; she striked the ball really hard.   It's just another lesson basically.   
But also, I feel I played a lot of tennis this year and I look forward to some holidays.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel you were missing ‑ because over this year you've really stepped up your aggressiveness ‑ in your returning as well?   Did you feel that was missing today?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   No.   Actually, I felt I was returning her serves quite well.   I was the ball.   It was very powerful, but I still managed to get it over the net.  
I think in the third set my serve went a little bit down.   This is something that really frustrated me.   But, you know, I still fought hard, and, yeah, like I said it was bad luck.  
   
 Q.   You said the break wasn't good for you.   When you start the match in the middle like that, do you go back and think about what's happening in the match and talk about it with your coach?   Because you usually don't get a chance.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, you know, just I tried to keep in the same mindset, you know.   Didn't really happen.   
But also, I felt she was a little bit more relaxed.   She started swing at the ball and it was going in and it gave her confidence.  
So once you stop, it's always the first few games how you going to react, and she made some great shots off my good serves.  
Then, yeah, it was tough.   
   
 Q.   You were the first player to get a big win over Serena this year.   Did you get a chance to watch any of the Cornet match?   Do you sense a difference in Serena's game this year compared to a year or two ago?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, I saw that match a little bit only because I was warming up.   I followed by.   Cornet is tough opponent.   I played her this year, too.  
I think Serena, it's probably, you know, confidence in these matches and Grand Slams.   Probably she wants it badly.   Sometime when you want something too much it doesn't always work your way.  
   
 Q.   Sounds like you're speaking from experience.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, it's true.   The more you want sometimes the further away it gets.  
   
 Q.   When it's too dark to use Hawk‑Eye, do you feel like that's a point the match should be stopped?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yes.   Was it do too dark Saturday?   For me, when the flashes start going off, you could see the flash from the phones and cameras.   It was getting a bit dark.  
   
 Q.   Do you think it was too dark to continue?   
ANA IVANOVIC:   We could have played one or two games more maybe, but at that point it was no point.   
The issue was that I think they could have started our match maybe on Centre where we had chance to finish.   We both agreed that would be a good idea.  
   
 Q.   Did they even offer you the chance for that?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   No.   We both went to talk to them a few times and they wouldn't do that.  
   
 Q.   A few times?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   What was the reason?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   I think tickets.   Tickets and safety.  
   
 Q.   Ana, what are your thoughts on the issue of whether there should be a timer or a clock where you could see the time between points, so that if one player is a taking too much time you would know it?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   You mean in that case where it's getting dark or in any case?   
   
 Q.   In any case.  
ANA IVANOVIC:   I think it would be interesting.   It would change the game a lot.   There are players who rush and there are players who take a longer time, and I think it would change the dynamics if we had that clock on court.   
   
 Q.   Change for the better?   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, you know, I think some players would struggle with the focus, so they would have to adjust.   For the ones who rush, it would give returner a better opportunity, I think.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT