ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2014
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







L. SAFAROVA/A. Ivanovic
      6‑3, 6‑3

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   What went wrong today with your game, your feelings on the court? 
    ANA IVANOVIC:   I think overall my level wasn't there today.   You know, I really struggled to find my rhythm. 
    And she was playing very aggressive.   She wasn't, you know, giving many free points.   I really struggled to come in and to be aggressive and to finish off the points.

Q.   You had lost your four last matches to her and now a fifth one.   Does it play in your head when you go in knowing you have that record against her?
    ANA IVANOVIC:   I mean, it's definitely tough.   I mean, every time, we have had tough matches in the past.   She's lefty, it's not something we face every day and the ball comes a little bit differently.
    In the beginning I felt like I had a lot of chances I didn't use.   If I did, the match maybe would have had a different tone to it.
    Really disappointed that I lost.   But, you know, she's good player, you know, and she played tough today.

Q.   When you have an off day like today, what do you feel you need to do to have a chance to get into the match?
    ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, it's hard, you know, you try to mix in a few different things.   You know, but today I really felt like I wasn't on the ball, you know, and it was hard to even mix up.   You know, I tried to step in, I tried to maybe do a few hard balls. 
    But also my serve was not really working.   I was not getting many free points.   She was picking it really easily.
    It was obviously very, very frustrating. 

Q.   With four of the top five seeds losing, did you feel you lost a really opportunity to go deep here?   Because you had been playing well up until today. 
    ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, you know, my clay court season was really good.   I was very happy about that.
    But, you know, everyone was talking about seeds coming out, but not in my part.   I had really tough opponent today.   I lost to her a lot of times before.
    So I knew she was going to be dangerous opponent.
    So, you know, I'm very disappointed about my loss today.   It's hard to tell what can happen, but, you know, definitely this loss is tough.

Q.   Now that you're out of the tournament, what will you do?   Will you take some time to maybe enjoy the city and visit the city?
    ANA IVANOVIC:   I'm not sure yet.   I have to make a plan.   Because I have a grass court tournament next week, in a week, so I have to make that adjustment and that change of surface.
    So I'm really not sure where and what I'm going to do.

Q.   You talked with your coaches after the match?   What do you think of your season right now?   Your best performance was in Australia.   Wimbledon is arriving soon.   How do you feel about that?
    ANA IVANOVIC:   We did not talk about that (smiling).   But we definitely spoke a little bit about the match, you know.   But, you know, like I said, my clay court season was really good.   I had a lot of good matches, a lot of matches, actually, I played. 
    This is the most matches I played this early in the season, so obviously it's going to take its toll.   Playing well, it creates a lot of pressure that I put on myself, as well.
    But, you know, we have still plenty of tournaments to come, you know, and I really hope I can prepare well and then have a good grass court season.

Q.   Now that you're out of the tournament and many seeds are out of the tournament, the press is talking a lot about Sharapova's way being cleared.   Who do you think can make a hard, difficult match against Sharapova?   Do you have other candidates that you can think of?
    ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, I mean, definitely she has tough game and she's been playing good on clay lately, too. 
    But also, you know, there is Jankovic and Halep and Svetlana, she won here before, and she won a tough match today.   There is a lot of good players.   It will be interesting to see who will go through. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT