SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 20, 2014
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. IVANOVIC/L. Davis
  6‑1, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How has the transition from Indian Wells to Miami been for you so far?
ANA IVANOVIC:   I felt actually difference in the way the courts play.   It's a little bit faster here, I felt.   I actually enjoy conditions for first time, so it was a good change for me. 
I was here unfortunately a little bit early, so I had time to adjust.   I felt good on court today.   I'm happy.

Q.   You said you enjoyed it for the first time.   This has been a tough tournament for you in the past?
ANA IVANOVIC:   I feel it has been, and Indian Wells, the transition has always been hard for me.   I think I reached quarterfinals here very first time I played.   It was many years ago.
But, you know, it's tough event and it's a lot of tough matches.   I'm excited about, you know, today's performance.

Q.   We do not have Internet.   It was hard to look up previous head to heads, so I don't know if you played Davis before. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   No, I never played her before.

Q.   I'm curious how much, if any, scouting you and your coaches do, if you saw her match with Azarenka? 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, we watched that match last week, and then also we watched her play a little bit in Auckland.   We were at the same event.   Then my coach saw a little bit of her match yesterday. 
I knew a little bit what to expect, so she's a very good player.   I felt today I was really putting her under pressure so she couldn't do much with her game, and that was the goal for me.   So I was really pleased that I did well today.

Q.   You said you saw the Azarenka match.   What did you make of that match?   That was a crazy one, with the injury.   As someone who has dealt with injuries before, what did you make of that whole situation?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, it's always tough playing with injury, you know.   I know in myself, too.   As a player you sometimes want to play.   You want to go on court, and then halfway through you realize maybe I'm not fit, maybe I wasn't supposed to do this. 
But, you know, when you go on court you try to think you can finish the match, and probably that's what was going on with Vika's mind.   It's always hard when you have an issue, because then it's not anymore about game or game plan or anything.   It's about compensation. 
Like I said, I think Lauren is very dangerous opponent, and if you let her play, she can really strike the ball well, especially off the backhand wing.

Q.   There are a bunch of American players, like John Isner, who do much better when they are playing at home than when they are traveling.   You as a Serbian player never have that benefit. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   We never play at home (smiling). 

Q.   How does it feel playing against an American player when they have kind of home court advantage?
ANA IVANOVIC:   It's always strange playing a local player, I feel.   But then again, it's just about doing your things the way you have to, and I think we have been very fortunate that we have a big Serbian community pretty much everywhere we go. 
There is always a lot of support, which is nice to see and hear.   Because when you are competing and when it's tough, so many times the crowd can turn matches around.

Q.   I know that you're a big fan of Indian Wells because it's relaxed and sort of away from things.   You have been asked about the transition on court, but how about in terms of the general atmosphere around the tournament?
ANA IVANOVIC:   I think for me that was something I struggled with the most in the past, but now I really enjoy Miami.   I love Miami, I love the beach, the weather.   It's just really ‑‑I find it quite relaxing. 
If you want, you can‑‑ you know, you have great restaurants down in South Beach.   If you want craziness, you can do that, too.   But you can find some really nice, secluded spots and beautiful beaches.   And the weather has been impeccable, too. 
I really enjoy it, and that's probably another reason why I feel better on court, too. 

Q.   Who's next for you?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Pennetta or I don't know who she plays today.   They play later. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT