DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 19, 2014
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. WILLIAMS/A. Ivanovic
  6‑2, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you just talk about the match?   What do you think wasn't working for you today?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, pretty much, you know, didn't play really great match today.   But she started really firing, you know, from the first moment on.  
You know, first few games I felt they were a lot closer than probably the score indicated.   And then in the second set, you know, towards the end I really went away.   
It was just really hard.   You know, I tried to be aggressive and to put her under pressure, but I was just making way too many errors today.  
   
 Q.   How much did last night's match take out of you mentally?   Is it difficult to go through such a mentally tough match and then...   
ANA IVANOVIC:   It was very close.   It was a close turnover.   It's hard to get much sleep when you finish that late and that kind of match, too.  
But it's not the first time.   It's just that, you know, today was really not much working for me out there.   And yet she played really good, I thought.  
   
 Q.   How difficult is it to play someone who hits the ball so hard?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   You know, it was a big difference compared to last night's match.   Also, I think the fact that it was played during the day it also played a part.   
The ball was just coming very fast.   It was very hard for me to adjust and find timing.   Even when I was facing second serves, when I tried to go for it sometimes, I was going for too much.   They put you under pressure, so that's what you feel like you have to do.  
   
 Q.   When you've got back‑to‑back matches, as you have done, how difficult is it to, having won such a good match yesterday, and then refocus against such a big player today?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   It's hard.   Like I said, I really don't get break.   It's a tough draw.   I knew it was going to be a tough match.   
I really expected a lot closer, to be honest, but, you know, like I said, she played well and it really wasn't my day.  
   
 Q.   Did you sense much difference between her today and the match you guys had in the beginning of the year?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   I definitely think she was a lot more aggressive.   She was stepping in the court way more, coming to the net more often.  
You know, she served well I thought in Auckland, too, but today I just felt she was putting more pressure on me.  
   
 Q.   How close to the Venus of old would you say this Venus is?   How close do you think she is?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, you know, I think it's very close.   We played many times in the past.   This is her game, you know.   She was being really aggressive and playing really deep on both wings.   
I tried even to maybe slice a few, but I just didn't feel like I had too many opportunities.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned yesterday that one of the things you really want to work on is to be able to follow up a big win like yesterday with more.   So in the bigger sense of everything, is this a big disappointment?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   You know, it's very hard.   But, you know, this is hard week, like I said.   It's a matter of still, you know, working and improving.   I have a lot of work to do and, you know, there is a lot more weeks to come.  
But, you know, I really want to focus on that, you know, just backing up these victories.   Hopefully not first‑round matches like this.  
   
 Q.   You said yesterday that Serbs are combative personalities and you yourself are quite emotional on the court.   I mean, do you get too angry with yourself when things aren't going right, or contrastingly are you too nice a person?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   No, you know, if things are not getting ‑‑sometimes I do get upset, you know, and I get wound up.  
You know, but today was just very hard because I really felt like I was trying to do the right things and it was not going your way and it's sometimes very hard emotionally.   There is no reason to really get upset, you know, when it's just not working.  
So I just have to work harder, I think.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT