DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 18, 2014
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. IVANOVIC/A. Kerber
  3‑6, 6‑3, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   It was very close.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I know.  
   
 Q.   How did you manage to get through that?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   After having the three match points, you know, I didn't feel like I did that much wrong, you know.   Maybe I could have, you know, gone for a little more, but still I felt like I hit three pretty good shots to get in that position in the first place.  
So, you know, I really wanted to make, you know, a rally.   Then she hit a couple of really good winners.   Having then match point down, I was really happy to come back.  
   
 Q.   Why was it so close?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, I think it was a little bit up and down, you know.   First two sets it was, you know, a little bit too many errors from my side and a little bit from her side.   Then third set I think was a little better tennis.   
She's such a tough competitor, and she retrieves lots of balls.   You just have to win points over and over again.  
   
 Q.   How difficult is it to close out a match like that mentally?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   You know, I really tried to stay in the moment.   It's tough every match you play.   You know, playing top players, you know, maybe you want it a little bit too much, so, you know, it can play with you.  
But other than that, I really tried to stay in the moment and tried to play the same way I did before.   You know, I just so happy to be through, you know.   
   
 Q.   You get to play Venus next.   You played her earlier in the year.   Can you talk about that?   It doesn't get that much easier for you.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   No, you know, it's a very tough draw, you know.   We played final few weeks ago.  
It's going to be tough, tough match.   She's, I feel, playing a lot better again.   She's such a great sport and great person to have on tour and big game, big serve.   We always have tough matches.   
You know, I hope it's going to be good match and the better one will win.  
   
 Q.   The way you have been playing this year, you must think the sky's the limit.   You're really going to get back to the top again.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   You know, well, the thing is that I really feel like also improving in some areas still.   That's my goal, you know.   
I want to back up my good results and good victories, and that's something that I was lacking a little bit in the past few years.   That's something you need in order to be a top player.   That's what's my goal, you know.  
So I really want to keep my head down and appreciate these kind of victories and hopefully reach the sky.   
   
 Q.   Is it difficult to focus on one match to the next and keep the same intensity?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, you know, I really try to take it a day at a time.   You know, like I spoke before, I tried to play every point the same, you know, and every game the same and tried to just play every match like it's a new situation every point, like it's a new situation, and that helps me a lot to stay in the moment and to do right things and try to get little less emotions involved.  
   
 Q.   How much confidence did you get from the match against Serena in the Australian Open when you were in a tight third‑set sort of scenario against a competitive player?   Does an experience like that help when you're in a match like tonight?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   That's kind of moment when you have to close these kind of matches, that it doesn't get bigger than that.  
You know, when it's tough or when you get a little nervous, you can put yourself in that position and say, Look, I have done it there, I can do it again.  
That definitely helps and gives you confidence.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible.)   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yes, exactly.   That's my main goal, you know, in this season.   Obviously to get back to the top, but if I manage to do that, back these victories up, rankings take care of themselves.  
   
 Q.   Your Serbian team, support team, how important are they to your new‑found approach this year, would you say?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   You know, it's important.   I think team is basically crucial thing, because we perform on our own but we are never alone, you know.   We always have people behind us.   All the success and all the things that happen, you know, they happen because you have a team behind you.  
You know, having Serbian team behind me, it does help.   It has disadvantages and advantages, of course, because, you know, Serbians are very combative personalities, but in the other way it pushes me and they can understand me a lot better what goes on in my mind, you know, and they know how to channel it better.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT