QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 11, 2014
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. IVANOVIC/D. Hantuchova
  7‑5, 1‑0 [ret.] 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Well, it was an abbreviated evening.   Talk about how you felt you were playing for as much as you got to play.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I thought the first set was very competitive.   She started really well, and I managed to get back into the set and break her back.   I played some really good tennis towards the end of that first set and then in the second.   
It was really unfortunate she didn't feel good in the second.  
   
 Q.   Like you said, most of the players came from Fed Cup, and this is a tournament that's fairly off the beaten path, you know, not next door.   How tough is that commute and stuff?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   I think it's not fair in a way.   You know, this is a big event.   A lot of players have been forced to arrive even today or last night.   It's very hard for some players.  
But, you know, I think it's a choice they have to make, although I know how hard it is with the pressure they feel from their own countries.   But I spoke to some of the players, and they had their own frustrations.   It's very hard decision to make.   It's a very, very hard one.  
You know, everyone is in different place in their careers, and they can sort of decide that.  
   
 Q.   Like you talked on the court, you're having a great start to the year.   Are you feeling this momentum coming into this tournament?   How do you feel?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely coming here with more confidence than I had in the previous years.   I really hope I can put that in place, you know, match after match and have a good week, you know, because I did not have great results here in the past.   Hopefully that can change now.   
   
 Q.   Talk a little bit more about that confidence.   Is it in the coach, or are you feeling more settled in yourself or less nervous?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah.   I think confidence a lot of times from within but also from the people that you surround yourself with.   Since I have a new team, I really feel they are very positive, they are very much behind me.   
You know, even the days when I'm doubting or struggling, you know, they are positive and they are supporting me, and that means a lot to me.  
When you have that positive affirmation and encouragement day in and day out, it does make a difference.   I always felt I have a game and I can beat top players, but sometimes this confidence was lacking.   
You know, from this side they tell me a few things.   Over the months and weeks that we spend together, I develop trust as well.   It means a lot to me.  
   
 Q.   To go back to the match, was it hard to play with these weather conditions, like cold, the wind?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Actually, I was very happy it wasn't windy tonight, but it was cold.   It's slow, anyway, and obviously in the cold it is a little bit more slow, but, you know, I was here for a while so I had chance to adjust.   
But with my jet lag, I was always practicing in the morning, so this is actually the first time I played in the afternoon.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT