DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 16, 2016
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. IVANOVIC/D. Gavrilova   
6-1, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  That must have felt good.  
ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, definitely.  I expected a very tough match because of the battle we had in Rome on clay.  I really tried to step it up today and be aggressive.  Especially here in desert I feel that the ball sometimes flies little bit through the air quicker, so I tried to use that in my advantage.  So very pleased overall.   
 Q.  You had a good read on her serve and you were using those angled returns a lot, weren't you?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, I was really happy about that.  She tried to mix up a few to my body.  I still managed to run around them and strike them well.  I think that made a big difference.   
And also on my serve I really managed to get a little bit of a kicker, so it was getting out of reach for her.   
 Q.  How much confidence did you pick up from last week?  
ANA IVANOVIC: A lot.  I mean, last week I played some great tennis.  Obviously it's a little bit tough, different conditions here completely.  I had only one practice.  But still I'm very happy.   
I know I have done the work, and now it's just about executing and also enjoying competition.  I did that well last week.  I had a lot of chances in the semifinal which sometimes I couldn't convert, but lots of positives to take out.   
 Q.  Is the court out there feeling a lot slower than it has in recent years?  
ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, it has.  I have heard they resurfaced it, so it does feel a little bit slower.  Still, sometimes the ball goes quick through the air, but the court definitely feels different.   
 Q.  Having played so well today and with such an open field, you must feel really confident about your chances this week.  
ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, no.  Every week I feel I have chance.  Like I said, I put a lot of hard work in.  It's nice to see that on the court, as well.  I'm also not rushing to finish the points, because I'm confident I can stay in the rallies.  That's what you need when you get deep into the tournament.   
Still, there is room for improvement, a lot of work to be done.  But like I said on the court, you want to play against the best, and next match is going to be a tough one for me.  Simona is a very tough, consistent player.  She strikes the ball well, she moves well, so it's going to be a good challenge.   
 Q.  Can I ask how things are going with granddad?  
ANA IVANOVIC: I was like, who?  (Smiling.)   
Well, it's great.  He's obviously feeling healthy.  Yeah, everything is going well.  Obviously great news for them, so I'm very happy.   
 Q.  I mean, I was talking to him yesterday and he reckons that you are on the verge of really doing something great.  
ANA IVANOVIC: Well, when we first started to work together this time around, so in the summer last year, that was our goal.  And since then -- obviously it was middle of the season, so it was tough to change some things straightaway.   
But we did some big changes.  I have a new fitness coach also with me, so kind of new, solid team I have behind me now.  And all the hard work we have done in the offseason and also injury prevention and also fitness work obviously gives you confidence.  We did a lot of work on court, as well.   
Like I said, still some things to improve and to work on, but that's the beauty of tennis.  You know, you always have to push yourself.   
 Q.  And so much of your game is between the ears.  
ANA IVANOVIC: Yeah, definitely.  No, sometimes you wish you could switch it off, you know.  But I really work hard in that part, as well, for myself, you know.   
I really -- I enjoy that, that part just not only game but human being is itself.  I think our brains are amazing.  I try to get as much information as I can, but sometimes it hinders myself.   
Obviously like I'm starting to understand better myself, as well, and what works for me, what doesn't.  I just feel more happy, as well.  I think that's a big part.  I stopped putting so much stress on myself and pressures.   
 Q.  Did you talk about Halep?  
ANA IVANOVIC: A little bit, yes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT