AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 13, 2014
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. IVANOVIC/K. Bertans
  6‑4, 6‑4
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 
Q.   Your opponent struggled with conditions on court.   How did you find them?
  ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, it was a bit warm.   But I'm used to them.   And coming to Melbourne you expect it to be hot. 
  So I didn't really feel the heat.   You know, I was just trying to get my rhythm out there today.   I struggled more with that than the heat today. 
Q.   Winning Auckland, how is that confidence going into the Australian Open for you?
  ANA IVANOVIC:   Obviously, it was a great start to the year.   It meant so much to me.   I couldn't have asked for a better start. 
  This is a new week, new challenges.   First round is still a first round, so just really happy with the victory. 
Q.   How do you feel you played today?
  ANA IVANOVIC:   It was not a great match.   I mean, it was a little bit obvious.   We had a lot of breaks, a lot of shaky points.   I really felt I struggled with my first few steps towards the ball today. 
  But, you know, it's something to improve on to the next match, to get the level.   Like I said, first round is never easy, especially playing opponent I haven't faced before.   I didn't know much about her. 
  I'm just thrilled to be through and move on to the next round.
Q.   How did you find the pace of the court?
  ANA IVANOVIC:   I found it similar to previous years.   When I was practicing, I felt it could be a little bit faster, but actually today I found it, you know, just the same.   At the moment even slower. 
  You know, I think it really depends which week you come into here.   Yeah, but for me it seems similar. 
Q.   When you set new goals for the new season, is getting back to the top 10 your biggest goal for 2014?
  ANA IVANOVIC:   In this year I really want to make Singapore, the Championships.   That's my big goal.   I'm aware I have to work hard towards it. 
  I had a good start, but still plenty more weeks of tennis.   Still many, many matches to come. 
  But that would be my biggest goal for this season. 
Q.   Serena Williams is obviously a hot favorite leading into this tournament.   Is there belief with you and some of the other girls that someone else can maybe win the Australian Open this year?
  ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah.   I mean, you never know.   You know, you go out there and you give your best.   We all thought that last year, too.   Then, you know, she got knocked out by Stephens. 
  It's tennis.   It can go either way.   I mean, she's definitely hot favorite.   She's been playing amazing tennis.   She's on top of women's game, there is no doubt about that. 
  But I think a lot of girls are out for a challenge.   I think, you know, you just want to go out there and give your best and you never know what can happen on any given day. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT