U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2013
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. IVANOVIC/A. Dulgheru
      6‑2, 6‑1 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about how you're playing right now relative to how you've played the rest of the season leading up to the US Open?  
    ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, I think the whole US Open Series I have been playing quite well.   It was really unfortunate in a couple of matches I lost, and I felt like I had chances in all of them.   It was sort of, you know, a buildup.   
    Obviously Cincinnati it was very disappointing, but I really tried to put that aside and really focus on this week, because I feel I have been playing good tennis.   
    I put a lot of hard work in in all areas.   So, you know, it's important to try and keep that balance and continue the same manner.  
   
 Q.   Are you pleased with the match?   Are you pleased with the way you played today?  
    ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, it was not easy conditions today.   It was a little bit gusty.   
    But I was very happy overall.   She's tough player.   She played well and strikes some really good backhands.  
    I was really happy that I managed to push her in the forehand.   She produced a few more errors on that wing.  
   
 Q.   You're one of only 32 only woman that have been No. 1 in the world, and you said the other day that it is your goal to get back there.   Knowing what it takes, how close do you think you are to realizing that goal?  
    ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, I think I still have a lot of work to be done, in all honesty.   Like you said, I have been there so I know how it feels.   It's very tough competition out there.  
    I have to be more consistent, you know, and on higher level.   It's no secret in that.   I have to, you know, start winning the matches that I had against Azarenka and Li Na in last couple of tournaments, these are the matches I need to win in order to get back there.   It's still a long way.   
    It's still also to enjoy the process of getting back there.   That's what I'm realizing.   I really put my head down and I want to achieve that.  
   
 Q.   What are some of the things you are working on right now?  
    ANA IVANOVIC:   It's consistency and confidence.   It's I think few things, because my tennis is there.   I strike the ball really well.   I think I can strike it as well as anybody in the world.   
    It's just putting it together in the big matches, and doing that over and over again.  
   
 Q.   What don't you miss about being No. 1?  
    ANA IVANOVIC:   I mean, is there anything not to miss?   I mean, it's a great position to be in.   Obviously when you're No. 1, everyone is trying to beat you and everyone is playing their best tennis against you.   It's like you have bull's eye on your back.   
    But, you know, as much as it's tough it's also nice position to be in.  
   
 Q.   Sara Errani, who lost today, said she was having a really, really hard time dealing with coming in as the fourth seed and that there was a lot of pressure on her.   She seemed very emotional and upset she's not able to handle that pressure.   Can that be a problem when you're up on the top, the expectations are so much higher?  
    ANA IVANOVIC:   Definitely.   I think it's harder to stay there than to get there because the expectations are higher.   Everyone is sort of trying to ‑‑they are playing their best tennis against you and trying to beat you and to bring you down.   
    There is obviously pressure from your own country, from the media, and everything else that you put on yourself, the expectations that you have from yourself.   And sometimes when you don't match that, if you're perfectionist, it can actually hurt you.   This is what happens sometimes.  
    This was probably the hardest lesson that I learned.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the whole Victoria Duval story?  
    ANA IVANOVIC:   I mean, it's great.   It's great to see, you know, a young player doing so well.   I mean, she played amazing tennis.   I watched some, and she was aggressive.   It's really exciting, I think.   Tennis needs people like this.  
   
 Q.   Are there a couple of keys to dealing with that sort of pressure, based on your experience?  
    ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, now looking back, you know, I wish I just, you know, trusted myself, you know.   But you get affected by certain things, and you know you're a perfectionist and you try to improve that or get better or prove them wrong.   So you get distracted, and that pressure builds up a little more.  
    I just wish I had someone telling me to keep the same things and, you know, that could help me get through that period, as well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT