U.S. OPEN
August 27, 2013
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. IVANOVIC/A. Tatashvili
      6‑2, 6‑0

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   It was a strong outing, first‑round match.   You played well.   Are you pleased with how the match went?
    ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, very pleased with the performance today.   It was a little bit in the beginning shaky, you know, lots of breaks. 
    Once I found my rhythm I sort of felt more comfortable as the match went on.   I felt the game plan sort of settled in.   I was very pleased with my performance at the end.

Q.   How did you feel coming into the tournament this year?
    ANA IVANOVIC:   I was playing really well and I had a few tough losses.   It's obviously hard, more so emotionally than anything else.   I'm very confident with the game and the way I was playing before that.
    I know I did a very good preparation.   You know, I have a new team with me.   Obviously it takes time to get comfortable, to get things, you know, to work and to work smoothly.
    I'm very happy at the way everything is and just trying to enjoy my time, and, you know, trying to work hard for each match and each practice.

Q.   You have been at the top of the women's game.   How much of a goal is it for you to get back to where you were a couple of years ago?
    ANA IVANOVIC:   It's my only goal I have at the moment.   I really want to get back to the top of the game.   You know, I believe I have qualities to do so. 
    You know, once you're in the top, you don't really feel satisfied with being, you know, in top 15.   You know, you really want to aim and push yourself.
    That's where I am at.   I really want to put my head down and work hard and try to maximize my potential.

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about your new team?
    ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah.   It's Nemanja Kontic and Zlatko Novkovic, my fitness coach, my sparring partner, and then Sven Groeneveld from adidas is sort of overlooking and helping us a little bit.
    It's been really good.   It's been very refreshing.   It's the first time I have Serbian team with me, and it also makes me feel better because it's someone that understands the mentality and can sort of understand you on a lot deeper level.   Obviously communication is very important.

Q.   How long have you been working together?
    ANA IVANOVIC:   Just after Wimbledon we started.   We had about 10 days of preparation before coming to the States.

Q.   Are you working on any specific things, you know, with the game?
    ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, you know, I always ‑‑there are always aspects to improve.   I still want to work on my serve and my forehand being more dominant, and consistency.   It's of huge importance for me, I feel.
    Lots of areas to improve on my physical side, too.   It's lots of little bits and pieces.   It's kind of incentive, as well.   Every time I step on the court I have set different goals.   That's something that it's very important to have.

Q.   It's reported this week a friend of yours from Serbia passed away.   You used to practice with women him.   Are you playing with heavy heart this week?
    ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, it's been very sad news.   Someone told me last week.   It was very hard because it was almost like my relative.   We grew up, and I knew him since we were kids.   It's very, very sad.

Q.   On a lighter note, you joined Twitter this week.   Where did that decision come from?
    ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, I had people trying to persuade me to start for months and years, actually.   I have been very resistant, but I did join and I'm enjoying it.
    It's a lot of fun and it's interaction with people.   It's just different world for me.   I'm having fun.   I didn't regret my decision.

Q.   Have you talked to Novak for tips on Twitter, or Rafa?
    ANA IVANOVIC:   I actually haven't had chance to speak to him much, but I definitely will.   You know, I know they are both very, very popular on Twitter. 
    Hopefully we can have some interactions, and, you know, you guys can see a little bit lighter side of things. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT