ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 7, 2013
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. IVANOVIC/F. Pennetta
  6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How injured are you?   Talk about what happened there. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   I'm going to go to physio now and have a little bit more treatment.   I think it's just a little strain.   I felt it a little bit in the end of the first set.
But hopefully it's just a little bit of tension and tightness.

Q.   Was it your hip or groin?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, it's like sort of high in the hip.

Q.   You looked pretty concerned though when you called the trainer. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   I was a little scared, because I iced it in 3‑0 in the second set, and then it got worse, and then after I warmed up it was better again.
So I really hope that, you know, making everything loose will be okay.

Q.   So you have had it before something like this?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, I'm sure I did.   I have been through so many aches and pains, but now I feel it still a bit, so hopefully they can release it and it's just like a strong muscle pain and maybe a little, just, yeah... 

Q.   But a pretty good fight overall, almost two hours, lots of long points?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, it was very tough.   It was breezy at times.   It was really tough match.   I started off really well.   Then I did make a few more errors of my forehand side that I don't normally do. 
But, you know, she played well and she hung in there and we had lots of tough rallies and very pleased to manage to close it at the end.

Q.   What did you think of your luck tonight?   The ball kept hitting the net and bouncing back about four times. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, you know what?   With that last net call that I had, it makes everything up for.   It was pretty good moment to hit one.

Q.   What do you think was the biggest struggle for you out of this match other than that leg injury?
ANA IVANOVIC:   I think it was just very frustrating that, you know, I was making quite a few errors of my forehand side and I didn't convert many of the breakpoints and chances that I had.
This was something that, you know, I was very frustrated with.

Q.   You have Li Na.   I think you played her once in 2006.   You retired, which is kind of incredible, given that you have both been around the top of the game for a long time, huh? 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Actually I do remember now.   I thought I never played her, but I do remember.   I won the first set and then I pulled out.   It was in Berlin, wasn't it? 

Q.   Yeah. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, it's incredible, I think.   It's going to be a tough match.   We did practice a few times, and obviously I have seen her play a lot. 
I look forward to that match.   I think it's going to be exciting match to play.

Q.   She's kind of I wouldn't say a completely different matchup, but she has a lot of different weapons, moves well, coming into net a lot.   Talk about her a bit more. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Like I said, it's always different when you sort of feel the ball and you are head to head against someone.   Watching her play, she's a lot more solid, heavy shots, very strong player and does serve very well and hits deep.
So I think it's going to be very important to hang in the points and look for the opportunities to come in, because she's a top player, so I really have to move forward and take the opportunities I have.

Q.   I understand you must know that the guys are going to be playing here tomorrow night, the men players?
ANA IVANOVIC:   No.

Q.   Lopez and Tomic are playing an exhibition. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Really? 

Q.   Yes, first match on.   Your thoughts on having the ATP players playing prominent center‑court matches while the women are still here. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Okay.   I didn't know.   Really? 

Q.   None of you guys know about it.   I don't know why.   Yes. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   That's why we have you guys.   (Smiling). 

Q.   Exactly. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, I mean, is it exhibition? 

Q.   It's an exhibition. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   I mean, it's fun.   It's definitely fun.   Who is playing in Montreal from the girls? 

Q.   Nobody.   Exactly. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   It's not fair.   (Smiling). 
They should have some of us go there.

Q.   I mean, is that seriously your thought?   If the guys are going to play exhibitions here, then maybe ‑‑because it's the first‑round losers playing here. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   So why not?   It's a nice mixup, so it's nice that actually we alternate, so I think that the public gets to see guys one year and girls the other, but, you know, if they are coming here, why not send a couple of girls there?   (Smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT