ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 6, 2013
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. IVANOVIC/S. Hsieh
  6‑1, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Welcome back to Toronto.   What do you intend to focus on during this tournament, something that you perhaps brought back from the previous matches?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, thanks.   It's good to be back here.   I'm really looking forward to consistency and especially coming off how I played well last week.   I hope keep that momentum going and to keep playing well here.

Q.   You're by no means an older player, but for somebody who had success at such a young age, to find success again at 25, what does that say about the tour and what does it say about your maturity?   We seem to be seeing a lot of that around the tour where a lot of older players are finding a lot more success now. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, I think, you know, with every experience and every year we are different in a way.   We mature, we grow up, we were young, we get older.   It really is at the moment how you feel, and I do feel very fit physically and I don't feel old in that sense. 
So I'm really happy to be playing some good tennis again and to be enjoying the process, as well.

Q.   Do you think the women's game, because it's such a power game now, that you almost need to be physically more mature to have success versus being a 19‑year‑old and just not strong enough?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, I think it's a lot of mentality these days, because the technology has improved so much.   A lot of players do work hard, and it's probably the easiest thing to do is to make a program and work hard.   It's about putting it all together and being mentally strong in tough moments, because many times in the matches the line is so fine that you don't even notice how few points can change the match.

Q.   Do you adjust your fitness preparation according to the challenges you're facing in your matches? 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   And now I have a full‑time fitness coach traveling with me.   I will leave all that up to him. 

Q.   Have you had any time to, you know, explore Toronto at all, or do you enjoy coming here?   Talk about your experience here in the city. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   I actually love coming here.   I haven't had chance this year to go anywhere yet.   Hopefully later in the week.   But in the past, I did go to Niagara Falls and that was really nice experience.
Also, I have a childhood friend who lives here now, so that's also another nice thing to do and catch up.

Q.   With regards to the timing of the event where it's placed between Wimbledon and the Open and some of the other players dropping out, can you talk a little bit about how that affects this event and maybe your preparation for it, trying to rest up your energy but also win this event?
ANA IVANOVIC:   It's such a great event and the field is very, very strong.   I know there were a few pullouts in the last moment, but still the field is very strong, a lot of good players.   I think it's a great preparation, and the organization is really good.   They really take care of players.   It's always fun to come back here and perform.
The fact that it alternates between Toronto and Montreal, I think it's another nice way for us and for fans, too.

Q.   You obviously had some struggles years ago.   I'm just wondering how you're feeling about your game these days and to be where you are in the rankings.   Are you pleased with that?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, it always can be better, but I definitely enjoy now the process and the work I'm putting in. 
I did make some changes after Wimbledon and took some time off and really set up a new team, a new plan, new goals, and this is something that's really helped me to be, you know, composed and calm and to get that consistency I was looking for for a while.

Q.   You just mentioned you set up a new plan and some new goals.   Can you share any of them?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   I mean, I really now want to focus on getting more consistency and not thinking too much, you know, ahead of winning tournaments or just basically taking it one step at a time, being more in the present moment and also to have fun in the process because, you know, it's not easy traveling all the time and everything.   We get caught up in that kind of machine, and it's very easy to get down on yourself.
It's just about enjoying and being constructive every time I step on the practice court, too, and always having something to focus on and not just going out there to play but also finding fun in all that.

Q.   How do you measure that?   How will you measure, you know, that?   Are there any concrete things you're looking for?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, I have a good team around me now.   We will do that together.   It's very important.   There's always some little things you look forward to in events, and, you know, it's nice.   You know, we're very fortunate to be doing what we love. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT