SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA OPEN
August 3, 2013
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. AZARENKA/A. Ivanovic
  6‑0, 4‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   What changed between the first and second set?   It's like a different Ana came out on the court?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, I don't necessarily agree.   First four games I had basically 40‑15 in every game, so I was very disappointed to lose it in that manner.
In the second set I did start to play a lot better.   It's quite disappointing that I didn't use some opportunities I had in the third set, because I felt like I did have.
Just made some errors at the not right times definitely.

Q.   Consistency was big in that match.   You were on top of her at times but she kind of maintained a certain level and doesn't miss that much.
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   She's No. 3 player for reason.   I felt like I gave her too many easy points, especially at the important moments, like 40‑All or deuces.
And in that first set also I had so many chances and I just wasn't as aggressive as I should have been.
That's, again, that belief against these kind of players.   If you give her chances, she's going to use them.   I created actually a lot of chances, and if I just managed to convert couple of those could have been a different match.

Q.   Must have been feeling pretty good going into the third set though, no?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I was on a high and I really felt like I started really well that third set.   I had a couple loose games at 2‑1.   She was playing some good tennis.   She was   striking the ball really deep and putting me under pressure.
Still I felt like I could have come back.   On that game on 4‑3 when she was serving 3‑all, I had a chance and just didn't do the right thing.   That was very frustrating.
These kept repeating throughout the match.
But like I said, a lot of positives to take out of this week and this match.

Q.   It's not unusual for you, but during the match you're riding a bit of an emotional roller coaster, no?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah.

Q.   You've very positive, then you get frustrated, positive, frustrated...
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, this is something that I really have to work on for the next events and matches.   I did feel like I was positive throughout match, but it's just that the intensity was lacking at some points.
So this is something I really want to work hard on so it doesn't happen so much.
It's very frustrating.

Q.   In English, translated in English, what's the word that you often say to yourself after a great point?   You have the first pump and you wen ‑‑ in English.
ANA IVANOVIC:   It's, Come on.

Q.   And the language?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Serbian, yeah.

Q.   Talk about her level, because she just came back.   She played well at times, and at times it looked like you were doing all the dictating.   At times with her she can be more aggressive, but you were the one pretty much in charge a lot, no?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I think because the way she plays and they was handles herself on the court you assume the ball is coming a lot harder.   Few times on the court I was too far because it wasn't as hard and I felt like I could step up a little more and dominate.
This is something that I was frustrated that I didn't do more throughout the match.

Q.   So this is your first week without a head coach?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah.

Q.   So how did that go for you?   Semifinals.   You took her to three sets.   Not so bad.
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I mean, it's been really good week for me.   It takes time for things to fall into place and get to know each other, so it's never easy.   We've been really good together.   The whole team has been enjoying as well.
Couple of them didn't really travel so much, were not so involved in tennis, it's kind of refreshing as well.   It's nice to get that new excitement and new voice as well.
I really enjoyed my time, and I'm really looking forward to the next week.

Q.   So the fitness and the trainer, they're not really following tennis?   You have to tell them when you're winning games?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, with my fitness coach I had to explain to him, and at Wimbledon he walked through while the girls were playing points in practice.   I said, You can't do that.   (Laughter.)
Even when I was playing points he was running on the side.   I was like, No, you have to stay.
But the fitness coach, he did train some tennis players back home and we've been working.   I know him for a long time, so he does know a little bit more.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT