WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2013
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. BOUCHARD/A. Ivanovic
  6‑3, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   Did she surprise you? 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I mean, definitely she played very good match today.   Was the first time I actually I saw her play, so it was obviously a little bit tough to get used to.
She was tracking the ball really well, serving well, and, yeah, she played a great match today.

Q.   Were you hoping or thinking maybe that being on Centre Court ‑ she had never been on there before ‑ that that that might unnerve her?
ANA IVANOVIC:   I thought she might at some point, because she was playing really consistent the whole match.   I was really trying to step up at times and change up a little bit. 
But she has very good ball‑striking.   It's very deep, and it's hard for me to do much with it. 
I thought maybe they end of the match she would get tight, but she was really the whole way through strong.

Q.   How did you feel about your game?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, I think I had chances obviously in the beginning of the match that I didn't use.   My forehand wasn't there today.   I think that was a big issue today in my game.   She was playing really well, and I had to do more with it, which I didn't.   That was a little bit disappointing. 
Also my serve, on the breakpoints, it was very, very poor today.

Q.   As you know, Canada is like Serbia.   It's a small tennis country that's trying to become a big tennis country.   Do you see some of the things in Canada that happened in Serbia a few years ago?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely Eugenie is playing really well.   She's young.   She has great potential.
Milos Raonic, too.   I mean, they have really young player now coming up, so they're going to be strong and around for a while.

Q.   How disappointing is this?   Did you feel like this was a tournament you would have a really good shot at?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely I'm very, very disappointed.   I really felt I'm ready to step up.   But, you know, today she was just better player out there. 
It's very, very disappointing, but just have to work hard and be ready for next one. 

Q.   What's Eugenie's main quality, would you say?
ANA IVANOVIC:   She served really well today.   Then her backhand, as well.   It was very, very good and very deep.   Even though going into match I was trying to get more to her forehand, she was tracking that well today, too. 
So it was just one of those days. 

Q.   The court as well.   Few slips out there.   How did you feel out there today? 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Felt the court was definitely faster than the one I played the other day.   I played on few courts obviously around the grounds, but this one felt quite fast. 

Q.   Faster?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, a little bit different than the other ones, I would say.

Q.   You said you had never played her before.   Would you have any opportunity to scout her or see tape or just figure it out as you go?
ANA IVANOVIC:   No, not so much.   My coach did see her previous match a little bit.   It's different when you see it with your own eyes and also when you can feel the ball, because different opponent compares different to a player.

Q.   Who do you think is the favorite now?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, think Serena.   She's really strong, I think. 

Q.   Are the courts playing any differently this year than previous years?
ANA IVANOVIC:   I was just mentioning that.   Yeah, I felt Centre Court was faster than the outside courts, but the outside courts felt the same like every other year.

Q.   You've seen lots of young players come up and have been asked about them... 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I think she has a very bright future.   She has a very strong game for such a young girl.
Like I said, the shots are coming through.   She had really good head on and she was very strong and positive.   I know if she can continue in this manner, she has bright future. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT