AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 17, 2013
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. VESNINA/A. Ivanovic
  2‑6, 6‑4, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Great start, obviously.   What happened after that?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I really felt I played well in the beginning, and it was just a few points here and there that really decided the match.  
I think in the second and third set she served a lot better than in the first, and it was kind of different, made difference in the grass.   It's always tough when you play your first match, and it's so tough, sometimes happens too fast, everything.  
But despite, I still felt like I had chances, but, yeah, she played good towards the end.  
   
 Q.   You didn't seem to really get into that much of a rhythm today.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, I think on grass it's very hard to get rhythm.   You don't get many long rallies and long points.   But overall I was pleased with my serving today, and in the first set I did quite a few good things.   
You know, it's something, you know, that I want to build towards and now hopefully have another few good days of practice before Wimbledon.  
   
 Q.   What is the game plan now as you kind of move on to Wimbledon?   Do you get to go and play some practice matches, or is it just kind of general hitting practice and movements?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, it's still some drilling and movements and getting used to moving on the grass, because obviously it's very different.   Yeah, last few days it's been quite full on the court, so we didn't get much of that.   Hopefully do more of that kind of stuff over in London and do play some points, too, because obviously that's what comes down to.  
   
 Q.   This is probably one of your least successful tournaments in your career?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Not a very good record.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   Is it because of adjusting to the grass?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   A little bit.   And also it's always quite windy, although today was no wind.   It was perfect conditions.  
But I think it is.   It's just, you know, a matter of playing matches and getting used to it.   And, you know, this tournament is always very strong, so you have tough opponents from first rounds.  
   
 Q.   Do you prefer to be able to build points, or do you prefer quicker points?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   No, definitely prefer to have rhythm and to build points.   I think that's why I enjoy playing on clay so much, because everything happens slower.  
But, you know, it's fun to play on grass because you really have to be quick and react.   Sometimes it gets frustrating, but then also, yeah, sometimes can be fun.   Also, I have style of game that, you know, I can go for my big shots.   So it's balance.   
   
 Q.   Do you remember the first time that you played on grass?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   It was Roehamton juniors, I think.  
   
 Q.   What was your first reaction, like literally, first rally with the ball bouncing?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, I remember first time I walked on the grass and I tried to bounce the ball and it just wouldn't come back.   I thought, okay, the ball does not bounce here.   (Smiling.)  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT