MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 10, 2013
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A.   IVANOVIC/A. Kerber
  6‑3, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Not many people in the court, but the match against Kerber was great.   Do you like Madrid or are you recovering your game, doesn't the matter where?
ANA IVANOVIC:   It's tough to play when Rafa plays at the same time, no? 
But, no, I was really happy with my performance today.   I obviously like Spain, and Madrid, it's always nice to come back here.   My very first memories were from 2007 and the Championships. 
Now to be back here in another semifinal, it's really good feeling. 

Q.   Your opinion of the courts?   Last year they were problematic.   They are very slippery or okay to move?
ANA IVANOVIC:   No, they are really good.   I really, really like red clay.   They are a little bit different, like each of them, I think.
But it's always going to be a little bit of a difference.   But they're much better for me than last year, I think.   They're less slippery than last year.

Q.   Maria is up next.   In Stuttgart you had a really tough match.   What do you expect to do differently against her?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, it was a really good match in Stuttgart.   There are just few little points I'm going to try to focus on more for tomorrow's match.
It's going to be different matchup.   Stuttgart was indoors; here it's a little bit of altitude and it's faster.   I think it's going to be very important to focus on the first strike and my serve as well.
It's going to be maybe a little bit similar to my previous match against Laura when she was taking the ball early and striking off everything. 

Q.   Are you staying in Mallorca sometimes?   It's not a secret, but you have a good relationship in general with Spain. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I love Spain.   I do spend some time in Mallorca.   My parents enjoy it more than I do.   Unfortunately or fortunately.
I was there before Stuttgart for a little while.   Hopefully I'm going to go soon again. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT