DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 20, 2013
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/A. Ivanovic
  7‑5, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   The start of the match was pretty tough.   How did you get into the match?   It seemed like you could adjust very well, especially in the return of serve.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I think she started impeccable.   There was not much I did wrong, but I thought it was a high quality match.   Disappointed I didn't use some opportunities I had towards the end of both sets, but it was really close, which is good.   
I thought I played quite good match.   And she did, too.   But, yeah, just few points here and there to decide it.  
   
 Q.   The first set you managed to get back into it.   Is it tougher on you to do a set like that after pushing like this?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, you know, I really tried to stay in the moment.   Even though I had opportunities 5‑4, 40‑15 serving, when I came back, still, I tried not to get down on myself.   I did that well, because that's something I have been working on and really try to leave it in the past, because at the end of the day whether you lose set 6‑Love or 6‑4 or 7‑6, it doesn't make a difference.   It's only a set.   
I really tried to start fresh from the second and I created some opportunities again.   But, you know, like I said, she played well.   She served big when she needed it.  
   
 Q.   Your coach, you called him at 4‑1 in the first set.   What did he say to you?   I felt like you were playing more on the backhand side because she tends to do more...   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Actually it was more me talking.   (Smiling.)  
No, it was just about‑‑ you know, I felt like I wasn't moving really well.   But she was just striking the ball so well it was hard to pick.  
He said, You're not doing much wrong.   Just stick to the game plan.   Obviously I tried to do a little bit more of that.   That was our game plan initially.   But, you know, I start striking it a little bit better, and I was more behind the ball which made the big difference.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel you're getting closer and closer?   Seems like every week it's just the margin, it's getting better.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   I have been working really hard.   I'm just disappointed not to use some of the chances I had.  
But I feel like I'm challenging top players week after week, and that's very, very important for me, so I really want to put my head down and try to work hard again and keep the same level, you know, hopefully break through soon.  
   
 Q.   What's next now?   Indian Wells and then Miami, I guess?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, exactly.  
   
 Q.   Are you feeling physically well?   A lot of the players are pulling out.   How are you feeling?   How is your shoulder?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, it's been better today.   You know, it's tough season.   A lot of tennis, a lot of traveling, especially this first part.   But just I think we're all trying to do our best and try to find balance between playing enough and not playing too much, you know, still having time to rest and recover.   
   
 Q.   Serena said last week in Doha that some of Petra's shots, nobody on the WTA Tour could actually get them back, they're just too good, too clean, too hard.   How good of a ball striker is she, in your opinion?   How good a player is she when she's hitting winners?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   I agree with Serena.   She's very clean striker of the ball, especially when the ball, she hits it in the sweet spot, it's very hard to pick where she's going to go.   You sort of have to commit to one side.   Especially coming off her racquet as a lefty, it makes a big difference because we don't face too many players that are left‑handed.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel, since you were across the net from her, do you feel her level was getting close to how it was when she won Wimbledon, or is it tough for you to evaluate?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, last year we played twice, once in Fed Cup and once in Melbourne.   I thought her level was actually higher than it was in Melbourne and also in Fed Cup.   But at that time she was struggling with some illnesses.  
I thought her level was actually higher than Melbourne last year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT