DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 18, 2013
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. IVANOVIC/A. Pavlyuchenkova
  6‑3, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How difficult was that to finish the match off?
ANA IVANOVIC:   It was very tough.   It was kind of getting difficult.   She really started striking the ball a lot deeper and harder when she had her back against the wall sort of towards the end of the second set, but I'm really happy I managed to stay in that match and finish in two.   It really was a good effort, I think.

Q.   Few problems with the serve today? 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, it was, especially in the second set, it really felt ‑‑ because I have been struggling with my shoulder for weeks now, and it was a little bit affecting me.   And I was kind of afraid to hit the ball because it was a little bit getting sore. 
But I was just so happy to win in two so I can regenerate more and hopefully take it easy and try to be ready for next one. 

Q.   We were wondering why you were playing when the shoulder is a problem at the moment with so many big tournaments coming up. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah.   You know, I really, because in Melbourne ‑‑ it started after Melbourne, and I had MRIs and doctor look at it.   And I was taking some time off.   That's why I didn't play Fed Cup. 
I tried to give it time, and then last week was the key for the match.   There is no major tear, but it's just basically something ongoing problem that I really have to, you know, work on it and get stronger.   So I'm doing a lot of rehab and a lot of stuff off the court, as well.
So after here, I'm going to take another few days off and try to, yeah, to be fit for the big ones.

Q.   After last year, I mean, you rebuilt your ranking.   You're right up there near the top ranked.   Do you have a particular aim for this year, doing something big in the Grand Slams?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   It's been my goal for a while now, and I really want to, you know, break into top 10 again. 
I really feel I have game, but I just haven't been consistent enough, especially against the top players.   I put myself in a position where I play Radwanska and Kvitova this week.   And I just need to sort of go through these big matches and sort of make few wins under my belt.     
Last week I really felt I pushed Radwanska, and I had a lot of chances.   This is also process, and, you know, I have been working hard in a few different areas.   Sometimes you have to sacrifice certain things, but I think on the long run it pays off. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT