QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 11, 2013
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. IVANOVIC/T. Paszek
  6‑1, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   It looked like you were pretty much in control out there.   Maybe talk about the match. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah.   I actually expected a very tough match.   I think it was very tough first round.   We had some battles in the past, but I really started well and I was aggressive. 
You know, I tried to do the things I worked on sort of to translate onto the match court, and I did that well today.   I felt like I was doing like lot of damage with my forehand, so I tried to keep that game plan.

Q.   You had to withdraw from the Fed Cup last weekend.   How does your shoulder feel well?
ANA IVANOVIC:   I smell like heat cream.   (Smiling.)
I have to still take care of my shoulder and do treatments every day, but it's been already sore in Pattaya and I kind of tried to push through there.   I felt like it was too much risk playing Fed Cup as well with a sore shoulder. 
I tried to take some time off and come healthy here.   And still, it's a process, but it's feeling a lot better.

Q.   Did you have time to watch some of the match?
ANA IVANOVIC:   I actually didn't, because I was here and I couldn't get it on the stream, but I was watching live score and that third rubber was definitely an epic.

Q.   How are you feeling in terms of this whole beginning of the season?   Because you have had rough patches in your career and great patches. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, you know, it's a new season, and, you know, actually when you look at it, time really flies.   I really have been working hard in the offseason and I want to put it together this year. 
Last year I felt I was in a position a lot of times to do well and to come through deep into tournaments, but I never, you know, broke through.
So I really want to do that this year.   But, you know, it's a process.   I really understand I have to work hard.   You know, it's one thing saying, you know, I want to get back there, but I want to go out there and do it and do it time after time. 

Q.   Was it tough to see that Fed Cup result considering that you couldn't be there?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   But, I mean, it's been very tough I think rubber for us, and, you know, it was very tough on the girls because both Jelena and I couldn't perform this time, but I really hope we can come together strong again and do what we did last year.

Q.   As a former No. 1, as you said, you're getting up to that level again.   How do you feel with a process of going against Serena and Sharapova this week and beating them?   What would it do for that process?
ANA IVANOVIC:   It would be huge, you know, even just playing against them and seeing sort of where you're at.   I definitely feel my game is coming to the point where I can challenge these top players.   That's exciting, you know, because if it wasn't like that, I wouldn't be here.   This is my big goal. 
I really want to get myself in a position to play against these top players, because only playing them time and time again you can break through eventually and finally, you know, win.

Q.   Do you feel you put yourself too much pressure on the big match like against Radwanska at the Australian Open or in the previous big matches you played?   Because it seems your level is there in the early rounds, but when you play the biggest ones it seems like you can't execute that game plan. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   And that's something I have been working really hard on, because I think this is going to be a big step for me, because I know I have a game and I know I'm playing well up to that point, so I put really high expectations, and, you know, I want to play the best match of my life. 
But I have to understand that I might not need to play the best match of my life.   I just have to keep doing the same things.   Sometimes in that excitement, you know, I burn out, you know, and then I become flat.
This is something that I really want to work on.   It's a big goal for this year for me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT