AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 14, 2013
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. IVANOVIC/M. Czink
  6‑2, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Are you happy with your performance today? 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, to be honest, I expected tough match because we played few times in the past.   I also lost once against her. 
I really wanted to make sure I work hard for each point and try to take away time for her because she likes to strike the ball and counter‑punch and use the pace of opponents. 
I was really pleased with my performance overall today.

Q.   How do you feel about the second round?
ANA IVANOVIC:   It's a Grand Slam.   You want to take it one match at a time.   It's great I have a day in between to reset and prepare and plan for the next round. 
There is no easy matches.   But it's a challenge.   I enjoy it.   I really hope I can perform well. 

Q.   With preparation, the beginning of the year, do you feel you can go to the end in a Grand Slam like this?
ANA IVANOVIC:   It's hard talking about it after first round. 
Last year, quarterfinals of US Open was the first time I play quarters since winning French Open.   So it's very hard talking about winning. 
But I definitely feel my game, it's at a higher level than it was.   There is tough opponents out there, lots of girls playing well.   I feel like I can challenge all of them. 
It's going to be a good test to see how far I can go. 

Q.   How do you feel your serve is going at the moment?   Are you feeling confident with it?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, no, it's still a work in progress.   Actually last week in Perth it was really good for most of the matches.   I was very pleased with that. 
In practice it's always perfect.   In matches it gets away from you sometimes.   It's kind of normal. 
I try not to think too much about it, take my time for the next one.   Many times if I have a bad toss, I serve a good serve the next one.   Like I said, that's a work in progress.   I'm happy I'm making more first serves and it's more aggressive, too.

Q.   Your ankle is okay? 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, I'm definitely going to put some ice and do some treatments on it tonight.   Hopefully it's fine.   It didn't swell. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT