CHINA OPEN
October 3, 2012
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. OPRANDI/A. Ivanovic
  6‑4, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese, please. 

Q.   Can you comment on your performance today?   Do you think what might have been the most important reason?   Is that because you're not prepared for this match?   Because I have noticed you have too many unforced errors. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, no, I really struggled to find my rhythm out there today, especially on the forehand.   The ball was coming with not so much pace, and I wasn't really efficient moving forward and taking advantage of that. 

Q.   After China Open, do you have any plan for the other tournament?   I know that you're going to participate into the Federation Cup final.   What kind of expectation do you have for that tournament?
ANA IVANOVIC:   I'm going to play next week Linz and then Moscow and then obviously final, the Fed Cup, which is a huge thing.   It's definitely something I look forward to and I want to perform best for.
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English. 

Q.   It kind of seemed like Oprandi wasn't really trying to win a lot of winners or hitting the ball that hard, just trying to extend rallies and waiting for you to make a mistake.   Did you feel that way, as well?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   I was doing that a lot today, unfortunately.   Especially off my forehand I really struggled to find rhythm, like I said.
She's tricky opponent.   She has really good hands, very talented girl.   I just wasn't moving as efficient.   You know, I always felt I was lacking a little step here and there, and I wasn't adjusting to the ball very good.

Q.   She also kind of was going with the dropshot a lot.   Is that something that maybe surprised you or caught you off‑guard?
ANA IVANOVIC:   No, I definitely expected that of her.   I have seen her play before and I did expect that.   I got to pretty much all of them, but yeah, it was just I think the unforced errors that made a big difference.

Q.   How do you feel you served?   She broke you a few times, but it wasn't like you were double‑faulting all that much. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   No, I mean, the rhythm on my serve was really good.   I just wasn't getting free points off it.
I really struggled to get free points off groundstrokes, as well.   This is something that I was hoping to get a little more of getting into today's match, but it really didn't work today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT