CHINA OPEN
September 29, 2012
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. IVANOVIC/C. McHale
  6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese, please. 

Q.   Before when you participated in the China Open, you withdraw.   China is not a lucky place for you? 
ANA IVANOVIC:   I don't know when I withdraw here.   I played last two years.   I don't understand the question, really. 

Q.   Is it your first time to play in this stadium?   How do you like this court?   What might be the difference between this one and the other court you have played before? 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Last year I played few times on this court, and I actually enjoy it.   It's really a nice stadium.   It's quite big.   It's really impressive.   I did enjoy competing there again today.
The other day I practiced on the Diamond Court and Lotus, and it's really nice always.   Big courts.

Q.   Last year you withdraw because of injury.   Do you have big ambitious goal this year?   Who do you think will be the big opponent, and how are you going to prepare for the match?
ANA IVANOVIC:   I actually really felt like I was playing well the last few years here, and it was really nice.   I have lots of good memories and feelings coming back.   I really wanted to do well again.   I hope I can repeat what I did. 
There is no easy opponents I think.   The draw is big.   There is so many strong names in the draw.
Yeah, next round is going to be tough.   I think if I play like today I have good chance. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English. 

Q.   Was that the perfect start for you today?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah.   Actually, that was the first thing I said to my coach afterwards.   I was like, I think that was the best service game I have ever had. 
Yeah, I wouldn't complain if I served like that more often. 

Q.   Is there anything in particular you can attribute that to, just having served so well today?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, actually, the last match I played in Tokyo I served terribly.   It was probably the worst I served in a very long time, so I was really determined to do better today. 
I really took more time and focused on that because I knew I could serve well and I did it in practice.   So I had attention to serve well today, and it worked well and I'm very pleased. 

Q.   I just noticed that you have very good memories here in China Open.   Would you share us something you particularly missed here in Beijing or you particularly like to do in Beijing?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Actually, the other day I was looking for, you know, fun things to do around Beijing.   It said top 10 things to do, and I did like 8 of those.   It was quite nice. 
I really enjoy to go sightseeing, so I have been to Forbidden City, to Summer Palace, Great Wall of China, and ChangCheng Square.   I think it's really nice to explore different culture.   This is obviously a lot different.   It's great, in a sense. 

Q.   This is your second time playing against McHale now.   I guess talk about her and as an up‑and‑coming player. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, she's really good player.   She has great potential.   She actually moves really well. 
We had tough match on grass in the Olympics.   It was actually good we played recently, so I had a little bit fresh in my mind, so I tried to focus on the things I did well in that match.   That really helped me today.
She definitely has good potential. 

Q.   What's your target in China Open?   Are you satisfied with your performance in this season?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, it's still been a little bit up and down.   Last few months I felt like I have been playing a lot better, which, you know, I'm really happy about.   I really want to try and maintain that level throughout the season and become more consistent.
So that's one of the goals I have for the next few weeks and, you know, for the next year.

Q.   You mentioned it would be nice to get back to top 10 and qualify for the Championships.   You had chances in French Open and US Open but all failed.   When you look back, do you think get back to top 10 is too far away or you just work on that?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, it's hard to say it's too far away when you're like 12.   I still have to work hard for it.   You know, throughout the year I can look back and say, you know, I had some chances that I could have used and put myself in a better position that I didn't.
You know, it's all work in progress.   I really feel like I have been making it.   It's just now putting it together in big matches that I really haven't done as much in this year.   You know, playing quarterfinal in US Open, it was kind of confidence boost and also very inspiring for what I can achieve. 

Q.   You could match up against Lepchenko in the next round.   From what I can tell, you guys haven't played head to head before on tour.   What are your expectations for that potential matchup?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, she won.   I saw that. 
Yeah, I don't know actually much about her.   I'm sure I'm going to talk to my coach.   He's probably watched that match, as well. 
I know she serves big and has kind of powerful game.   She likes to go for her shots.   But, you know, I'm going to talk a little more with my coach tomorrow and try to prepare for that match.
She's been playing much better lately, and she had some really good results.   It's going to be tough match.

Q.   Petra Kvitova said there will be 14,000 people obsessed in Prague when you play Fed Cup with Czech Republic.   Have you set a goal already in your mind with a huge fight already?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, actually we have been talking between us, Serbians have been talking here about that week.   It's very exciting for all of us.   It would be great to do what guys did a few years ago when they won. 
It's a huge event.   I still get like messages and calls, Oh, we are coming, we are coming.   So we are going to have a lot of family and friends coming, as well.   I think it's a great way to finish the season. 
I will miss Bali, but it's still very, very nice and it's great achievement. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT