U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2012
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/A. Ivanovic
  6‑1, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   It was 5‑1 first set, and looked like Serena was going to take care of business.   You started rallying off a bunch of serves and looked like you were going to take her serve.   She kind of got back.   Do you see that as kind of a turning point? 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, it probably was the only game I managed to get some returns in play.   That's I think the biggest difference today.   She was serving great.   I struggled to make returns.
But, you know, once the points get going, I felt like I was having a chance.   I thought I was striking the ball really well.
Yeah, her serves were too good. 

Q.   How do you feel you felt she was playing overall tonight, and what kind of pressure she puts on you when she's serving that well?
ANA IVANOVIC:   I think that the quality of tennis comparing to last year, I played her here, it was much higher   I think from both of us.   I mean, she was serving unbelievable.   She was hardly missing serves.   That puts a lot of pressure on opponents' own service games. 
I felt that, you know, sometimes I was rushing too much and wanting too much to hold onto my service games, because I felt like I was nowhere near the chances on her serves.
But, you know, in the second set I tried to take a little more time and to really take it one point at a time.   It was working a lot better.

Q.   Because Serena starts so well, do you feel like there is more pressure for you to get out of the blocks that well too and make sure you're on your game?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   I thought she started much better than last year.   I didn't feel like I was doing much wrong, you know.   It was just her shots were coming through fast.   She was, you know, hardly missing. 
But, yeah. 

Q.   You made it to the quarters, which I know was a big goal for you.   Were you satisfied with this tournament?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, overall I'm very satisfied.   I played some really good tennis to get into this position. 
Even tonight I felt like I was striking the ball so nicely on both sides.   That's something that I worked hard for.   I think it's a big step for me to reach quarterfinal.   It's a confidence boost, too.

Q.   What's the next goal for you now that this goal has been accomplished?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, you know, I still want to try and make the Championships.   That's still, you know, in sight.   I'll try to finish the year as best as possible and then really try to regroup and start the year fresh and, you know, in the same level I am now.

Q.   Do you feel like Serena is serving better than she has when you played her in the past?   What specifically is she doing better?   Placement?   Power?   What? 
ANA IVANOVIC:   She's definitely making more first serves than I remember last time I played.
The power, it's consistent.   You know, she was consistently serving 116, 118.   You know, it's hard. 
And the placement is so good.   It's hard to read it, as well.   You know, it's not like you can pick a side.
That's, I think, what's really hard.

Q.   Is that something natural, you think, for her?   Is that something that takes practice or... 
ANA IVANOVIC:   I think she's always had a great serve.   I think it's natural.   I wish I had that kind of serve.

Q.   Would you be surprised if Serena doesn't win this tournament?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, very.   (Laughter.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT