U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2012
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. IVANOVIC/S. Stephens
  6‑7, 6‑4, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Tougher than last year?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   I expected a very tough match this time around.   She's a great player.   She's improved a lot since last year, as I remembered.   Her serve is a lot faster and her forehand, as well. 

Q.   Did you feel you had to be very aggressive and try and get through that defense because she gets so much back?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely.   I felt there was a lot of moments where I actually built the point nicely, then I missed on sort of finishing shots.   Still, I tried to be aggressive and put a lot of pressure on her.   I tried to kind of open up the court a little bit, but she was very solid off both sides.

Q.   You talked a lot in your first press conference that you would like to get to a quarterfinal.   In this one, you will be the higher‑seeded player.   How excited are you?
ANA IVANOVIC:   It's just another match for me.   I really try to take it like that.   She's a great player.   She's been in the semifinal of a Grand Slam before. 
It's not going to be easy.   But it's definitely a good chance for me, for her.   It's great to be in a position to play for a quarterfinal.   Like I said before the tournament, it would be a big goal of mine.   So I really want to put my head down and work hard for that match. 

Q.   Do you believe the power of the numbers? 
ANA IVANOVIC:   I'm not sure, no. 

Q.   I tell you why.   This is the third time in your Grand Slam history that you lost the first set in a tiebreak and you have to come back. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   I think Sloane was by far the toughest opponent of all of them, the most quality player in all of these situations. 
If I have a good year now, that would be great for me obviously.   That was my goal, to return to the top 10 this year.   It's still a long way away.   The season, it's almost over in a way. 
But I really want to take it one match at a time.   I really want to take care of my next match and then see how it progresses. 

Q.   What was it about her serve, returning her serve, that was working for you?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, I thought she had a lot more pop on her serves.   They were quite fast.   She was going for lines on her serves very well.   You know, I tried to look for my opportunities in the second serve because she was kicking a lot.   I tried to run around sometimes and put more pressure with my forehand.

Q.   The crowd was very supportive of her tonight. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, I expected that.   I played her last year in the same situation.   I played Serena a few times here.   The crowd is always going to be for home favorite. 
But I really enjoyed.   It was great atmosphere out there.   I really tried to stay focused on my game.   I had great support from my box, which is always nice. 

Q.   You had Sorana Cirstea in your box. 
ANA IVANOVIC:   She had to stay for a couple of days.   She's leaving tomorrow.   Obviously we've been catching up for dinners.   I'm like, You can come out and watch.   It was great to see her there.   We're really close friends. 
Yeah, it's always nice to support each other. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT