U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2012
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. IVANOVIC/E. Svitolina
  6‑3, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   If you could, just describe your first match.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   I'm actually very happy the way I played, considering it's the first match and especially I only had one match on the hard court which wasn't very representative.   
Yeah, it was actually tough going on court because I didn't know much about the opponent today.   She obviously had few matches behind her, so I expected, you know, tough match and I tried to focus on my game.   I did really well today, so I'm very pleased.  
   
 Q.   Having just that one match before on a hard court, what do you have to work on going forward?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, unfortunately I had to take some time off obviously with my foot.   Last week when I was training I really tried, you know, on movement and on my serve and trying to be more consistent.   
You know, to have a match like today that I actually played quite well, it's a good start for me.   Obviously I want to build on this and take it one match at a time.  
   
 Q.   What were your expectations coming into this tournament?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, it's really hard, you know, to put expectations, because I didn't play as much as I hoped I would.   I felt I was tracking the ball really well for a while now, and it's always getting close and putting myself in a position, you know, to do well and get far but never really using the opportunities.  
So I really want to focus one match at a time and, you know, try to give myself another opportunity.  
   
 Q.   Obviously you were hurt, but when you have your last result that you played as a double bagel against you, is that hard psychologically at all for you?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, it is.   It is tough.   In that first game I was like, Oh, my God at least I should win a game first.  
In all seriousness, it wasn't easy, especially it was, you know, one of the first matches on hard court, as well.   It's a lot different.   We have been playing on grass for a long time this season.   It wasn't easy.  
You know, taking all into consideration, I'm really happy with today's performance.  
   
 Q.   Did you consider that day like not playing or pulling out at all?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   That day in Montreal?   No, not at all, because I had a lot of pain in my foot, but I didn't think it was anything serious, really.   I just ‑‑because I didn't do anything.   I didn't twist it or anything.   It just started getting worse.   I thought it was inflammation so I tried to play.  
Yeah, I was not in rhythm.  
   
 Q.   Have you learned to play with pain, play through injury?   Because everybody does.   
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, it is.   It's part of the game in sport, and I always joke because people say, you know, Sport is good for you.   But, you know, we are always hurting.   You know, it's hard on the heart, too.   
But, no, I think it's important.   You know, when you progress also in a tournament you're going to have aches and pains.  
   
 Q.   It seems like you're a lot thinner than you were in recent years.   Is that something intentional or from exercising as much as you do?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   I think a couple of years ago I did lose some weight.   Then, you know, since then I have been really trying to work on gaining some more strength and power.   That's still something I want to achieve and want to improve in.  
It definitely helps with movement on the court.   I do feel a lot lighter.   
   
 Q.   You said your expectations for this tournament are different because of your injuries, but in general, over the last few years how have you had to sort of adjust expectations, do you think, in a set, something that's hard to do for you?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   It is very hard, and it still is.   My big goal is to break the fourth round and get into quarterfinals.   Obviously that's something I'm working hard.   
Yeah, it's not easy, but I really tried to focus on taking it one match at a time, because sometimes when you get overexcited it doesn't really work for you, you know, the way you hope for.  
There is so many dangerous opponents out there, and everyone can have a great day and give a tough match.   You have to really not take anything for granted and work hard for each victory.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like the same person on court that you were like four, five years ago?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Well, definitely more experience.   You know, you maybe better adjust to some circumstances and some, you know, things that happen on the court.   
But also I think I evolved as a player.   I added a little bit more to my game, and it's just a matter of putting it together in the big matches and believing in it.  
   
 Q.   Novak Djokovic was asked about you and Jelena having dropped a little bit since you all came up at the same time.   He said you both have the ability and you were No. 1 and won a Grand Slam.   He said it's just mental at this point.   Your agree with that?  
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, it is a lot to do with confidence.   I think also since the first time I entered the game has evolved and there is lot more girls that strike and they have nothing to lose.   They play really, really well and they're very dangerous.  
But, yeah, definitely it's just not the belief of, you know, beating those, you know, top players at the moment.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT