ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 9, 2012
Ana Ivanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. VINCI/A. Ivanovic
  6‑0, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   (Off microphone.)
ANA IVANOVIC:   No, I really struggled to find my rhythm out there, and it was really‑‑ you know, it came as a surprise a little bit, because I was practicing really well, and, you know, I felt the ball nicely. 
Today I just struggled to find my feet and to get two consecutive balls in the court.   Against players like Roberta that don't make many errors, it's always going to be tough.

Q.   Did it surprise you as it was happening, as it was unfolding?   Did you feel like you were trying to figure out some way to turn it around?
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, you know, obviously when you are 4‑Love down, 5‑Love down, 6‑Love down, the panic starts to set in.   You want it even more. 
I tried to force it a little bit.   You know, it was bad as it was already, you know, without having to force.   You know, my serve wasn't working, and just, you know, it was really, really tough for me out there.

Q.   Has anything like that ever happened?   Has that ever happened to you before?
ANA IVANOVIC:   I can't remember last time I had a match like this, you know, maybe not since I was junior. 
Yeah, it's obviously tough, you know, but I just want to try and put it behind me and try to forget about this because that's the only thing you can do.   You can't dwell so much.

Q.   (Off microphone.)
ANA IVANOVIC:   Yeah, definitely it was tough.   Actually when I came here first I thought it was the toughest surface change I have had to do because we had been on grass for so long, and also for the first time we had to kind of go from one day to another on a different surface. 
The last few days I was hitting the ball so nicely.   I had such a good rhythm.   I was actually, you know, excited and happy, you know, about today's match and this tournament. 
I really, you know, thought I can get by.   I didn't.   I'm going home on a bike. 

Q.   (Off microphone.)   Did you speak to her after her loss?
ANA IVANOVIC:   We did speak a little bit and not straightaway.   I don't think she will hear from me straightaway, either. 

Q.   Your coach was not here earlier in the week when you first got here.   It was interesting to see you sort of walking around all by yourself and doing your own thing.   Was there a reason he wasn't here?   Was that strange to you, as well?
ANA IVANOVIC:   It was.   It was very strange.   Actually the first day I was supposed to have a day off, but I really felt like coming out and hitting a little bit. 
He just had issue with his passport.   He had to take a later flight.   That definitely was strange.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT