NBA ALL-STAR 2020
February 15, 2020
Anthony Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What does it mean to play in Chicago?
ANTHONY DAVIS: It's been great. Glad to be back home, spend time with my family, my friends. It's going to be a great weekend. Trying to stay warm. But to get back here and play in front of the fans in a place where I grew up, in a place where I had my first like big-time game, the McDonald's game at UC. So it's been very exciting to be back and get a chance to relive some of them high school memories that I had here in Chicago.
Q. On staying for his senior year at Perspectives Charter School:
ANTHONY DAVIS: Actually, I just rolled past the church, and I was just talking about it. Just being loyal, man. It was my junior year. Didn't want to leave and have to sit out a year. So I just tried to stick it out.
My dad always gave me the saying: No matter where you are, they'll find you. I took that to heart and just made sure that I kept doing what I was doing, kept working hard and eventually someone will come see me. Coach Cal [John Calipari] came to one of my games, and the rest is history.
Q. What's your favorite Kobe Bryant All-Star memory?
ANTHONY DAVIS: I have so many. I think the last one. I think the last one we shared was great. It was at Toronto. It was actually knowing that that was his final All-Star. We kind of shared that moment. And then I think in [2014], when I was a first-time All-Star. I think he got injured and I was his replacement. He told me to go out there and make him look good because I was replacing him. He was by me the whole time.
I was in New Orleans, and he was just telling me like, "You'll be fine." I was nervous, obviously, and he was right there just kind of holding my hand through it.
Q. On the Lakers:
ANTHONY DAVIS: It feels good to be in a winning situation. I think being number one in the West, we have something good going over there in L.A. I'm excited about our team. I'm excited about our chemistry. I'm excited for the second half of the season and see what we can accomplish. We still have a lot to work on, but right now we're doing pretty fine.
Q. On Dwight Howard in the Slam Dunk Contest:
ANTHONY DAVIS: I think he's got some dunks with him that a lot of people haven't seen. I'm not going to tell you all what it is, but I'll be there supporting him tonight.
Q. On Dwight Howard's dunks:
ANTHONY DAVIS: No, he didn't show me. He told me. Let me just say this: If he does the dunk that he said, he should win. He should win, for sure.
Q. If you could add a WNBA player to your lineup this weekend, who would you add?
ANTHONY DAVIS: My favorite WNBA player, Diana Taurasi. She's a killer. She reminds me a lot of Kobe. So I would add her.
Q. What's your favorite memory of Chicago?
ANTHONY DAVIS: I have a ton. I lived here so long, just being here in the city. The snow. I don't get to see the snow as much now. Me and my cousins would go outside and have snowball fights almost every day out of school. I kind of miss that.
Q. What's your favorite meal?
ANTHONY DAVIS: Giordano's pizza. I didn't have it yet. I did have Portillo's, but Giordano's is my go-to.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT