NBA ALL-STAR 2019
February 16, 2019
Anthony Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obviously, being an All-Star requires so much work and dedication, and a lot of people out there, a lot of players trying to be All-Stars.  What do you say about what it takes?  
ANTHONY DAVIS: Just go out there and play.  Obviously, it's definitely an honor to be an All-Star.  I think your peers, the coaches, the media and the fans get to see that.  But you've just got to go out there and showcase your talents.  Go out there and have fun, and the rest of it will take care of itself.   
 Q.  A lot of kids who look up to you guys are watching you this weekend.  How important is it to you to be able to showcase your talent for those kids?  
ANTHONY DAVIS: These are once-in-a-lifetime moments for these kids.  They call your name.  They cheer for you.  You've got to be able to embrace it.  Obviously, they're here for you, for you to go out there and perform.  Some of us are these kids' idols.  So any time we've got a chance to spend time with a kid, we've got to make sure we do that and give them the best moment of their life.   
 Q.  On his mindset with the Pelicans for the remainder of the season:  
ANTHONY DAVIS: My intent is to play, to continue to play and that's it.   
 Q.  On the Pelicans:  
ANTHONY DAVIS: That's their decision.  Obviously, it's a business, and I understand that.  What we were talking about in the beginning about playing or not playing, I understood it from their perspective.  My job is to play the game of basketball, and that's what I'm going to continue to do.   
 Q.  On his daily focus:  
ANTHONY DAVIS: I'm still training like I'm playing games, like I'm in the season, because I am playing games.  I'm not doing anything I normally wouldn't do.   
 Q.  On the reported list of team he'd accept a trade to:  
ANTHONY DAVIS: Whatever list that came out, that's between my agent and the Pelicans.  It's true.   
 Q.  On his relationship with the city of New Orleans:  
ANTHONY DAVIS: Obviously, when the time comes, I'll have something for them.  When you're with someone for seven years, I have a love for them.  I have a love for the city and the fans.  That was my home.  I have a couple homes in New Orleans.  I always have love for the city of New Orleans, and obviously, when that time comes, I'm going to definitely have a heartwarming message for them.  Just put it out there on Instagram, like everybody else does.   
 Q.  Were you surprised by Dell Demps' dismissal?  
ANTHONY DAVIS: I didn't know anything about it.  Obviously, the Pelicans are going to do what is best for them.  They need to do what's best for them.  My intentions are the same, no matter who the GM is.  My intentions are the same.  The Pelicans made a move that was best for their organization.  For me, I'm still going to go out there and play basketball for, obviously, Danny Ferry right now, and continue to play basketball with my teammates and play the game the right way.   
 Q.  Listen up, a lot of things that people don't know is I'm going to take you back to last year's All-Star Weekend.  My son was in the elevator.  You didn't know who he was, right?  But you stopped and gave him an autograph.  Talk to me a little bit and let them know, when you see kids, how do you try to give them a quick message when you can?  
ANTHONY DAVIS: I just go out there and inspire them.  Obviously, they look up to us as players.  For me, any kid that comes to me and wants a picture or an autograph, if I don't have anywhere to be or I'm not in a rush, I try to do it for them.  You never know, the kid might not see you again.  They might be here just for you.  So I try to make these kids have the best experience of their life.   
 Q.  And when you get on the court tomorrow, you're getting ready to show off, right?  Would you rather the oop or just take them off the dribble?  
ANTHONY DAVIS: I'll probably take the oop.  A lot of small guards, they're real feisty and pesky around the ball.  I'm going to take the oop and get the easy bucket.   
 Q.  Catch a body?  
ANTHONY DAVIS: Catch a body (laughter).   
 Q.  On his playing future:  
ANTHONY DAVIS: Market doesn't matter to me.  I just want to win.  Big market, small market, it doesn't matter.  My focus is on winning at this point in my career.  Wherever that may be, like it be a big market or a small market.  I just want to win.   
 Q.  On the Knicks:  
ANTHONY DAVIS: It's a great franchise.  Playing in, obviously, the Garden, the city.   
But Milwaukee was on that list too.  It doesn't matter about big market, small market.  It's about winning for me.   
 Q.  On his future:  
ANTHONY DAVIS: Obviously, the teams are going to have their offers.  There's a time in free agency where I get a chance to go out there and see.  It's about the best situation for me, the best fit for me.  When the time comes, obviously, I have to re-evaluate my situation and see what market best fits me and go from there.   
 Q.  In theory, if you could create the perfect All-Star, different skills from different guys.  A lot of guys have said your length and skill ratio, Steph's shot, Kyrie's handling.  What are some guys and their particular skills you would take?  
ANTHONY DAVIS: I'd definitely take Kyrie's handles.  I'd take LeBron's playmaking ability, Steph's shot, Kawhi's defense, my rim-protecting ability.  That would probably be it.   
 Q.  What's your expectation for NBA China this year?  
ANTHONY DAVIS: China is a big fan of basketball.  I love going to China.  I'm excited to be a part of it.  I know it's going to be fun.  Any time I go to China, it's always fun.  So I'm excited for the World Cup next summer.  Shout-out to all the Chinese fans.  Appreciate y'all.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT