NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2016
Anthony Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You guys have faced a lot of adversity.  Do you use that as motivation as a chance to kind of kick it up a notch?
ANTHONY DAVIS: Yeah, for sure.  I mean, that's what you have to do.  That's what we're going to have to do if we want to give ourselves a chance to make the playoffs.  But we've been through adversity and we have to stick together to get through it.
Q. Is it tough to come here and be around a lot of great players and guys that are having team success?
ANTHONY DAVIS: No, you just make it what it means and try to pick their brains about the first half of their seasons and try to bring it back to your team.  But I mean every team is not going to be going be Golden State or San Antonio.  You're going to have other teams who are not [doing as well].  You have to learn from it, and figure out all the things they're doing and how their locker room is and all those type of things and try to bring it back to your team.
Q. How does it feel to be part of Drake's homecoming weekend in Toronto?
ANTHONY DAVIS: I'm a big fan of Drake.  I love his music.  So I'm very excited to see what he's going to bring to the table over the weekend.  I know it's going to be a lot.  So I'm excited to see him with the Raptors and be in his city and see what he has planned for us.
Q. You see Chris Bosh in the Three-Point Contest, non-traditional three-point shooter, big man.  Do you feel that could open the door for you and other guys maybe down the road?
ANTHONY DAVIS: Yeah, I mean, I don't plan on getting in it, but Chris has made some threes for a while.  I think the All-Star is all about fun and trying to have an experience that you usually don't have.  That's what you want to do, go right ahead.  I mean, it's like the Skills Challenge for the bigs this year.  It's all about having fun and enjoying yourself.
Q. This is the first time it's north of the border.  Do you sense a different feel or buzz coming into this game?
ANTHONY DAVIS: Definitely colder.  But you really don't feel the difference.  I mean, we come here all the time and play, so it's not that much of a difference.  But the weather is kind of bad right now.
Q. What are you looking forward to the most this weekend?
ANTHONY DAVIS: Just having fun.  Just having fun, and clear your mind of everything and just be able to share the floor one more time with 2-4 [Kobe Bryant].  After that, it's getting back to reality with your team.
Q. If Kobe is double-teamed and there's 10 seconds left, you'd still pass him the ball?
ANTHONY DAVIS: Yeah, and have him shoot it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT