NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2015
Anthony Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you talk about Dean Smith and what the game will miss.ANTHONY DAVIS: Oh, I mean a lot.  Great coach.  I know a lot of guys who played for him.  Coached with him.  So it really hit home with one of my coaches, assistant coaches for the Pelicans, Coach Hanners. It's tough.  Everybody in the basketball world is going to miss him.Q. When you look at game, you look at the boxscore, what is the first thing you look at?ANTHONY DAVIS: Rebounds.Q. For you?  For the team?ANTHONY DAVIS: For me.  I don't worry about scoring.  I want to rebound the ball and defend.Q. Is this still crazy to you being as young as you are thinking about five years ago to where you are now when you think back if you could talk to yourself when you were 14 or 15, is this crazy being here?ANTHONY DAVIS: For sure.  At this time last year I never thought that -- five years ago I never thought I would be in a position.  So it's still weird.  I still sit back and just realize how far I've came and how blessed.Q. What's the craziest part?  The people stopping you on the street?  The media?ANTHONY DAVIS: I think going back and looking at my old pictures.  Watching high school film.  This is how I used to play.  This is how I used to look.  I think that's the biggest thing.Q. You look at it and you think man, I'm just so --ANTHONY DAVIS: I wasn't good at all.Q. You have a big admiration between yourself, Omer and Ryan.  How does it feel that you can move outside and learn from your mid-range, knowing that Omer can take over under the basket?ANTHONY DAVIS: It's great.  He protects all of us, big body.  Clogs up the paint.  Protects on the defensive end.  So it gives me and Ryan a lot more freedom to go out there on the perimeter and showcase our skills.Q. A lot of big men are falling in love with their mid-range shot or even moving out to the three-point line.  Is there a fine line for you or is Monty encouraging you to do that or is he trying to keep you near the basket?ANTHONY DAVIS: You know, I work on my game every day.  Every summer I try to bring something new to the game.  I'm going to try to add something new next year as well.  So whatever that may be, I'm going to try to bring it.Q. What do you think of the fashion in your locker room?  Who is the one person who needs help?ANTHONY DAVIS: My team on blast?  There's a couple of guys.  I don't want to say their names.  There's a couple of guys that need to work on different styles.Q. What do you think of the international expansion of the NBA?  There's a game in London every year, across Europe.  And this year is going to be the first time the NBA goes to Africa in August.  What's your thoughts on that?ANTHONY DAVIS: It's great.  We've got a lot of fans internationally that don't get a chance to come see NBA players live.  I think it's a great thing we're doing or the NBA is doing to have games internationally and have our fans over there support us.Q. What do you think of the NBA coming to Africa, African legends, young guys Dieng -- what do you think of the African influence in the NBA?ANTHONY DAVIS: It's good.  Like I said, I'm happy that the NBA is doing things like that, to play internationally.  I hope they can do more as well.Q. Would you like to say something your fans?ANTHONY DAVIS: I appreciate it.  They definitely always watching and having fun.  Supporting us.  And I hope they continue to do so.Q. You guys are locked into a fight down there with the Suns and the Thunder.  What's it going to take you guys to emerge as a playoff seed?ANTHONY DAVIS: (Inaudible)  on top of the basketball.  Have fun.  Continue to do the things we do.  We know that it's a battle with OKC and Phoenix.  It's basketball.  The NBA.  We wouldn't have it any other way.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT