NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 15, 2008
Peja Stojakovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  What's the key that's keeping this going?   
 PEJA STOJAKOVIC:  Stay consistent.  Stay consistent.  Get even better.  Because we know the teams are going to come after us, knowing we have one of the best records in the league.  And you have to meet the challenge.  You've got to be ready to respond.  And as I said, the future it's going to be tougher.  We've got to get ready to respond and play the way we're capable of playing, and hopefully we can stay healthy.  That's our main key, stay healthy, and see what we can do.   
  
  Q.  What are some of the keys of going in there?   
 PEJA STOJAKOVIC:  I don't know.  How can you prepare yourself.  It's a matter of how you can find your rhythm, shooting, because basically you can't warm up and just get into the shooting competition, you've got to sit for half an hour.  They just call your name and you go out there and shoot.  I think whoever finds the rhythm first, I think is going to win.   
 So it's tough, 25 shots in one minute, it's hard.   
  
  Q.  Is it difficult the way it is all set up, with the lights all around?   
 PEJA STOJAKOVIC:  That's All-Star.  That's entertainment.  It's all about fun.  It's all about doing it for the fans and hopefully, put on a show.   
  
  Q.  Have you scouted the competition?   
 PEJA STOJAKOVIC:  Have I scouted?  I sent a scout around the league to get me tapes from other guys so I could throw something at them while they're shooting (laughing).   
 Well, I mean, how can you prepare yourself for that competition?  Every time you participate in something like that, you want to have fun.  Enjoy yourself.  That's all it is.  The All-Star weekend, it's having fun, having your friends and family at the game.  Just, I don't know.  Hopefully, you know, you can win.  But whatever happens, happens.   
  
  Q.  What where do those two titles you won rank in your career?  Do they give you a trophy?   
 PEJA STOJAKOVIC:  I was just speaking to some of my friends.  I said the two times I won I had the worst score.  And the times I had a great score, I lost.  So I don't know.  It just happens, like I said.  We'll see.   
 It's different than in the game.  It's something that I'm looking forward to doing, because I haven't done that since 2004, so it's going to be fun.   
  
  Q.  How much is it being here and the fact that you're at home?   
 PEJA STOJAKOVIC:  Well, the floor and the baskets are going to be different.  They're going to put new ones, so.   
  
  Q.  But the arena's the same.   
 PEJA STOJAKOVIC:  The arena's the same.  The same background.  Like, I can get tape from the same people to tape my ankles.  Maybe get a steam and ice before the shootout, I don't know.   
  
  Q.  When you are in the zone with the three, what does it feel like, Peja?  Does the basket look big?  Does the ball feel small?  Does everything just click?   
 PEJA STOJAKOVIC:  If you have confidence every time you shoot the ball, the next shot is the best shot.  When you're in that zone, your teammates are looking for you.  It's just, I don't know, it's a good feeling.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT