U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2000
Jim McLean
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 JIM MCLEAN: Well, I haven't done much lately, that is for sure, for a long time. I
played a lot of golf as a junior and a lot of golf as an amateur. I was at the University
of Houston. I lived with John Mahaffey, Bruce Lietzke, and Bill Rogers there. We had
really good teams at Houston. Then I played for a few years before I went up and started
to work in New York, started at Westchester Country Club. I was a club professional up
there. Then started the golf schools at the Doral Golf Resort in 1991. 
 
 JIM MCLEAN: No, I think I have done, you know, pretty much everything. This is kind of
an interesting thing, getting back to play a little bit. I want all of my instructors -- I
have a lot of instructors that work for me. And we try to have our teachers continue to
play to be good players. So it is just something I was maybe hoping I could do, at least
get to one Senior Open. 
 
 JIM MCLEAN: No, I think that is good. I have been able to play in a U.S. Junior -- I
played in a number of U.S. Amateurs, played in the U.S. Open twice, then the Senior Open.
That is a lot of years of at least playing halfway decent. 
 
 JIM MCLEAN: I am trying to make this just a fun week, and I guess my aspirations would
be try to make the cut. 
 
Q. How many competitive rounds have you played in the last several months?
 
 JIM MCLEAN: Well, that is a big, major weakness. When I was in the met's section, I
played a lot of golf in the met section. I played not club pros -- I played a lot of golf
then. Since I have come to Florida, I moved down there in 1993, I really haven't played
too much. I play maybe a couple of events a year, so, I have really gotten away from that.
My boys are starting to play a lot of golf now, so I am starting to play a little bit
more. But I did the Little League -- all that stuff. And then we set up the golf schools.
We have 8 sites around the country and one in Mexico, so business has been a major thing
for me, starting our own -- my own business and running golf schools. There just isn't
enough time to do everything. 
 
Q. Attempting to qualify, was this a lark, or was this a plan?
 
 JIM MCLEAN: Well, something I thought about. I said I did play some more golf a few
weeks before, but I didn't put a lot of time into it. It's a big thrill to be here. 
 
Q. There are many of us who see on the Golf Channel all the time giving all these
lessons, and you work with a lot of great players. How do you separate yourself as a
teacher to being a competitive player? What things do you have to work on, concentration,
and that type of thing?
 
 JIM MCLEAN: Well, it's certainly a lot easier to tell people what to do and how to
prepare than actually do it yourself. I think it is good for me as a teacher to be in a
situation like this where there is pressure on you, and I think because a lot -- I am out
there, a lot of people get the Golf Channel. So it's an unbelievable amount of people that
stop you and say something and, you know, I feel some little more pressure probably than I
need to feel to play. But I guess I just have to deal with that. And I really haven't
played much, so just need to go out and -- but I have played a lot of golf in my life, so
it is not like I haven't played a lot of competitive golf. But as of lately, there hasn't
been a lot; so, you know, getting out there -- it is a pretty big deal. It is a real major
tournament situation. So I have just -- I just need to try to focus on staying simple; not
getting too far ahead of myself. 
 
Q. Some people have said that teachers watching bad golfers take lessons was not very
good for the teachers' swing. I wondered, all these years you have been watching that, if
you have noticed that you have to concentrate on something to make a good swing yourself?
 
 JIM MCLEAN: Well, I think that is really -- it is actually true. Most of the people
that teach a lot, don't -- kind of stop playing, but there have been a lot of good
teachers Bob Toski would be one. Really taught a lot and still played really good golf.
More of the old-time players, that is the way they did. They taught and still played. But
you still definitely need to play. I go to a lot of majors, but I go working with people.
I have been to a lot of U.S. Opens over the last 15 years and PGAs and other Tour events,
so I am there watching them prepare, and that is probably an advantage. I get a chance to
work with good players. I worked with Dana Quigley who is doing tremendous on the Tour
now. And so I think I actually know what I should be doing. But it is a lot easier, like I
said, to do that -- to know what to do, and then doing it is two different things. You
can't stop -- you need to practice and hit balls and play to have confidence. 
 
Q. You give tips to a lot of professional players, as you have just alluded to. Role
reversal, are you going to be asking for tips as far as the mental aspect of the game, or
things to look out for; and if so, who have you talked to?
 
 JIM MCLEAN: Mike Selopzinski is caddying for me this week. Mike is a Top-100 teacher in
the country. I am asking him for a tip on every shot just about out there. Trying to --
just trying to stay in the present, you know. And today I played with Christy O'Connor and
Dave Stockton, and Terry Dill, so, I feel -- I didn't feel too comfortable today. So I am
just trying to have Mike help me relax a little better, and really concentrate on what I
am doing. 
 
Q. When you play these competitive rounds, do you find out more about your game has
improved? I am recalling Bobby Clampett had a very successful Open. I think he surprised
himself as to how good a player he still is. Is that something that you can find out about
yourself?
 
 JIM MCLEAN: Yeah, I think -- I think that is possible. Just have to have a good week.
And what Clampett did is remarkable. But he is not that far removed from the game either.
I think a lot of guys that have been commentators, it's been good for them. Colbert, I
think, Andy North. I talked with Andy, felt like -- actually a good experience to see --
to step away from the game a little bit and come back and play it. So I think you do learn
something about yourself because it is very different just going out to play or play
exhibitions or corporate outings, things that I do, compared to actually going and playing
in a tournament. 
 
Q. Similar to what I asked earlier, I wondered -- I assume these guys here play sort of
in a reactionary mode, they swing the club, the things they do are reactionary. Is there a
tendency for a guy like you to be more like A, B, C to D, that kind of thing, if so, can
you discuss that?
 
 JIM MCLEAN: I definitely think that is true. I think that I have always been like that.
I have been more of an analytical person and when I was younger did way too much of that
and I always thought about the golf swing a lot. I think it helped me a lot as a teacher,
but it is not good as a player. 
 
Q. Has there been any experiences where maybe some players are asking you for advice
while you are out playing today or yesterday?
 
 JIM MCLEAN: Yeah, I have had a couple of guys say some things. One of my goals was to
not give a lesson this week, but that's really, you know, that is my job, that is what I
do, and I love doing that. It is hard not to. I really don't mind that. 
 
Q. Is there one maybe specific instance where someone asked you: Can you help me out
with this putt out on the greens?
 
 JIM MCLEAN: I think -- actually, Stockton was showing Christy O'Connor some shots
around the green. So that is actually pretty common. I have had a few people ask me some
questions on specific shots that they are hitting, but it is probably kind of normal
actually for guys to just talk amongst themselves. 
 
Q. You mentioned Dana Quigley. Anybody else out here that you have helped in the past
or still helping?
 
 JIM MCLEAN: Well, there is different guys that I have worked with from time to time.
Gibby Gilbert withdrew. I worked a lot with Gibby. I worked some with J.C. Snead. I guess,
if I thought about it, I have spent some time with Gary Player over the years when he was
at Sleepy Hollow which was great. And Al Geiberger. I don't even know if Al is here this
week. Is he? Some other guys that you don't know, a lot of club pros that I have spent
time with. There is quite a few of them that I have worked with, periodically, you know,
not inasmuch as I am working like full-time with them, but people that have come -- Tom
Kite, yeah, I have spent a lot of time with Tom over the years. Not so much right now, but
I have worked hundreds of hours with Tom. Dave Eichelberger, I have spent a lot of time
with Dave. That is actually when he first came on the SENIOR TOUR, he came to Sleepy
Hollow quite a few times. Again not working with him right now, but a lot of the guys I
have spent some considerable amount of time with. 
 
Q. What do you enjoy most about this golf course and what do you find yourself most
challenged by it?
 
 JIM MCLEAN: This course reminds me of a lot of the courses in the met section. I was
head pro at Quaker Ridge where they had the 1997 Walker Cup right next to Winged Foot. It
was an AW Tillinghast course. It reminds me very much of the great northern metropolitan
golf courses. It's a very straightforward golf course, very super fair golf course and I
think probably everybody will enjoy playing here this week. 
 
Q. What will be the biggest challenge for you aside from the mental aspect of it?
 
 JIM MCLEAN: I think it is definitely -- the mental aspect is the main thing for me. And
just no competitive practice. I have had no competitive practice here for quite some time.
I just have to calm down, the emotional mental aspects of the game are important for
everybody, you know, I think all players have to deal with that, but the guys that are
playing every week, of course, they are going to be a lot better at that. 
 
 JIM MCLEAN: I'd hate to teach myself, yeah. It would be tough. 
 
Q. Talk about Tom Kite - he will be in here later - I saw him at dinner last night.
Some people would think he would be the person to win this tournament. What is your
assessment of what he needs to do to play well?
 
 JIM MCLEAN: I think everything for Kite is mostly his short game. He was always a great
short game player. When I worked with Tom in the early '90s, I worked with him a lot in
1992, 1993, 1994, and he had a great short game. He was a very good putter. I think that
is what it is for Tom right now. He still hits the ball great. Probably Tom Watson as
well, but they are just tremendous ball strikers and Hale Irwin, and Eichelberger, they
all made the cut at Pebble Beach which was very impressive. So I think it is just for Tom
Kite getting here and having confidence in his putting and maybe his pitching, I think,
those are the two areas and his bunker game that were his strongest parts of his game for
his whole life. And I think, by far, the strongest part of his game is his ball striking
now. 
 
Q. As opposed to short game?
 
 JIM MCLEAN: Yeah. 
 
Q. How does that happen?
 
 JIM MCLEAN: Just we get old. I guess you -- I think some people -- actually some of the
guys don't lose their short game. Maybe even improve. But I think a lot of people could be
-- your eyesight could be just -- that you -- just too many years of making 3- and
4-footers and Tom was always great at doing that, but I know he struggled with that on the
PGA TOUR his last few years but he still hit the ball great. 
 
Q. I have never understood that because the theory is a person should have to have more
physical ability to hit the full shots; correct or incorrect?
 
 JIM MCLEAN: No, I think that is correct. I think most -- it is all in your head mostly
the short game, the short shots, it is not that difficult to make a four-foot putt, but it
is just having the confidence and the belief that you can do it and keeping things simple
in your mind. But the fact is a lot of people -- you know, especially the guys that hit
the ball well because they have so many opportunities, I think you start missing short
putts and starts to accumulate and what was once a strength becomes a weakness, and it is
sort of -- it is like a total change for Tom. But with his work ethic and as hard as he
tries, wouldn't surprise me if he got back to doing pretty well with that part of his
game. 
 
Q. If you are successful out here this week, make the cut, is there any future
aspirations; maybe playing in other tournaments on the SENIOR TOUR?
 
 JIM MCLEAN: I don't really think so. I am really pretty pleased with what I do and the
way my life is now. You know, if I could play in a few events I think that would be a fun
thing to do but I am not planning on being a player. I do love golf and I do love to play
golf and I like to hit balls and do those -- I'd like to get back to doing some more of
that. For I say the last five, six years has been very little compared to what I used to
do the rest of my life. Even when I was a club professional I still played quite a bit of
golf and had the winters off. So if I can do that, yeah, I think that would be fun to play
at several events, maybe the Senior PGA, try and get back in this tournament again. That
would be a lot of fun. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT