CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
November 11, 2012
Charlie Knox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHARLIE KNOX:   I figured if I made that putt on the last hole I would have been close.   And I wanted to give it every chance I had.   
I mean going into today I mean the top 150 was my goal.   I never really thought it would be possible to get inside the 125.   But after I got to 7‑under I realized it was possible to win the tournament.   
No, I mean that's as good as I got, maybe two swings out there.   I played as well as I think I ever have.   And I feel like I got extremely robbed on 17.   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   You had too good a shot for that to happen.   You ended up in the bunker.  
CHARLIE KNOX:   Yeah.   I hit a great bunker shot and got a little ‑‑ looked like the ball had stopped like four feet.   A little gust of wind and it goes off the green almost.   That's going to happen to a lot of people today, I think.  
But no, I mean the last hole is the last hole.   But tough.   
   
 Q.   When you look at the way your season went, you really made all your hay in the fall.   The last three starts have been stellar.   Could you feel the pressure?  
CHARLIE KNOX:   It was different for sure at the start of the year out here.   But no, I went back to my old Cleveland clubs.   I've missed one cut since I went back to those.  
   
 Q.   When did you do that?  
CHARLIE KNOX:   The only cut I missed was John Deere and that was the week before that I switched back to them.  
But no, to be honest, I mean it might sound weird, but I played really good pretty much all year, but at the start I was just ‑‑ I mean I missed a lot of cuts by around two shots.   I played pretty good a couple rounds and that would be it.   But really since the last ten events or so, I feel like I've played some really good stuff and deserve to have a chance.   
But no, I've been pleased.   I gave everything I have today.  
   
 Q.   Is there any different feeling when you get to 7‑under and all of a sudden you think you might win this tournament?  
CHARLIE KNOX:   Not really.   I felt good all day.   I hit a horrendous shot on 16 but got away with that, and then 17 was just a horrible tee shot for everyone and I piped it and just maybe got a little unlucky.   It rolled into the rough.   But I mean I would take it in the rough all day other than the water.  
And then had a lie where it might have took off and it might not have.   And it did.   And I had to hit that club and I hit at 6 and it didn't jump quite a yard short.   So I was happy with that.   I hit a great bunker shot, good putt.   Excellent drive at 18.   I had a really good shot into 18 and I thought it was going to be further back than it was.   And hit a great putt.   Just missed the next one.   Other than two shots I didn't miss all day.  
   
 Q.   How about the consolation of being top 150 and now you go straight to finals?  
CHARLIE KNOX:   I mean if that's the way it works out, I'll be over the moon.   Like I said, that was my goal, and yeah, I mean Top 125 obviously was the goal, but I mean if I end up in the top 150, I mean I was 188 on the Money List like three or four tournaments ago.   So I think I can pat myself on the back.   
No, because I mean in Vegas I should have finished a lot higher than I did.   I had a bad finish there.   And San Francisco I played great all week.   So that was nice.   No, I've played good enough to win.   And I was close today.  
   
 Q.   How did you make your eagle at 10?  
CHARLIE KNOX:   I hit a driver.   I don't hit it that far.   I hit it and was just like whoa, that looked good.   It was flat and I think it just landed right on the downslope and I hit 9‑iron.   I don't think I could have reached it the first day I played.   And I hit 9‑iron and hit a good shot to about 10, 15 feet and it was the easiest putt in the world, straight in the middle.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT