U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2015
Maverick Antcliff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Let's talk about your round.  On fire on that back side with a 31.  
MAVERICK ANTCLIFF: Yeah, just made some good swings on the front nine, had a couple putts just shave the edges and stuff, just tried to stay patient, made good swings.  The back side everybody knows is probably the easiest nine out here, so just had to stay patient and keep it in the fairway, give yourself good opportunities and just be patient until they fall.   
 Q.  What was your mindset coming into this round because you were in pretty good shape coming into the round.  
MAVERICK ANTCLIFF: Yeah, I mean, I shot 2-over yesterday.  I got off to an average start and then had a good back nine, so I had some good momentum, and then I talked to my coach last night, got a few swing feels sorted out, and then just got off to a solid start, just like eight pars on the front and a birdie.  I knew if I managed a few good swings on the back nine I could really get it going.   
 Q.  Tell me about the birdies on 10 and 11 to really get you started on that back.  
MAVERICK ANTCLIFF: 10 I hit a good drive just down the right side, hit 5-iron to about 30 feet, just playing safe, hit a great putt.  I actually hit it in the left bunker on 11 and hit a nice pitching wedge out of there to about six feet up the hill, pretty straightforward.   
 Q.  Even though you had a lot of birdies, was there a par or any particular putt that was a key to the round?  
MAVERICK ANTCLIFF: Yeah, I made a good par putt on 4 to stay even, and I mean, obviously that hole today back into the wind, it's wet, great par.  That really sort of got the momentum going, made a good swing on 5 to about 25 feet, and from there on it was pretty gettable.  I was just happy to get through those first five well.   
 Q.  What's your expectations obviously now that you're going to be in match play?  
MAVERICK ANTCLIFF: Honestly just focus on how I played today and I'll go home, rest, do my stats, just work out what I need to do to get ready for tomorrow, talk to my coach, talk to my mom and dad, stuff like that.   
 Q.  Have you played match play?  Obviously a whole different ballgame than stroke play.  
MAVERICK ANTCLIFF: Yeah, growing up in Australia, we play a lot of match play.  Like if it's for club stuff, state stuff, yeah.  I've played a lot of match play.  It's been a few years, but it's always fun.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT