MAYAKOBA GOLF CLASSIC
February 23, 2012
Marc Turnesa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   4‑under par, I mean you're in the lead right now.   I know there's a long way to go, but it's gotta be encouraging.   Just talk about your round in general?
MARC TURNESA:   It was good.   My round was good.   I made a bunch of pars in a row, and I was playing good, just wasn't really hitting it close enough.   And still, I made some birdies coming in, just hit it close.   I made a couple of three‑footers for birdie.   Three of them were three‑footers for birdie.   Actually four of them were furthest birdie putt I made was six feet.   So it was good.
You know, I've been feeling good.   I've been feeling good all year for a change.   You know, it's been a while for me, but I feel like I can play good golf, so at least I got a chance.   I feel like I'm going to play good golf, and usually when you feel like you're going to play good, you do.

Q.   That's what I was going to ask you.   You have had some physical issues.   Those are now in the rearview mirror?   You're feeling pretty good now?
MARC TURNESA:   Yeah.   I mean my back's healthy.   I'm sure it's going to go out again at some point.   Maybe this year, maybe not for five years, but you know, I can't worry about that.   But I've been feeling good all year. 
You know, I just do this simple maintenance stuff for it and forget about it.

Q.   This golf course in the morning, the wind was obviously a little bit further down than it was in the afternoon.   Just talk about the conditions of the course?
MARC TURNESA:   The wind‑‑

Q.   The wind was a little bit down this morning.   It usually picks up in the afternoon.   Was that the case today?
MARC TURNESA:   I mean I think it said last night or this morning the wind was going to be blowing 15, but it definitely felt more than that.   You know, I think it'll probably be the same tomorrow hopefully.   Hopefully it'll be a little less wind for me in the morning and the course should play a little bit easier. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT