STANFORD ST. JUDE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 6, 2008
Marc Turnesa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Halfway through Stanford St. Jude and tied for the lead. You have to feel good about that.  
 MARC TURNESA: Yeah, I played well, been hitting the ball well and making the putts. I struggled on the front-9 a lot, but I held it together pretty good with some good par-saving putts but played a little better on the back.  
  
  Q. Conditions are difficult, but you managed to fight your way through on two days where par is a pretty good score, I would say.  
 MARC TURNESA: Yeah, absolutely. This golf course, it's one of the toughest courses we've played all year. In these conditions, this wind blowing this course is brutal. You've got to hit a lot of good golf shots out here. There's not much let-up.  
  
  Q. The shot on 1, you had pretty good shot at birdie. No one made it in the group. I've seen a lot of shots all day, tricky putt there?  
 MARC TURNESA: Not really. I was pretty disappointed I missed it. Straight up the hill, little right to left. You have the green going right to left, but it was a pretty easy putt. I just pulled it.  
  
  Q. Any comments on Gavin's game today?  
 MARC TURNESA: Awesome. I think he was bogey-free. I don't know. Pretty impressive stuff. He hits it good.  
  
  Q. As far as you're halfway, approximately halfway through your first season, any comments about your first season on the Tour?  
 MARC TURNESA: I'm enjoying it. I'm having a great time. It took me awhile to get out here. Now that I'm here, I'm enjoying it and trying to play well.  
  
  Q. Hopefully if you keep your card and play well, next year you'll know all these courses better. And I'm sure that's an advantage for guys that come back, they can play one practice round on Wednesday and be ready to go, versus we probably have to look at the course a couple times and feel comfortable.  
 MARC TURNESA: Exactly right. I'm not looking at them a couple times. I figure I'm better rested. So I'm just coming in, playing one practice round and going.  
 So, you know, obviously course knowledge helps, but I'll get that, and I'm getting it as we go.  
  
  Q. Over the course of the years, you'll find out which courses you like and what suits your game and what cities you like and that type of thing.  
 MARC TURNESA: Yeah, absolutely.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT