JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 17, 2008
Marc Turnesa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Marc Turnesa into the interview room. Marc, that may be one the more improbable finishes we've seen in quite a while on the PGA TOUR. Comment on the last five holes.
 MARC TURNESA: What can I say really? I hit a bad shot on 17 and, you know, made double, and then on 18 hit a good shot and got a little lucky as well and it went in the hole.
 JOHN BUSH: Just solid golf through the first 16 holes. Just comment on what was working for you out there. 
 MARC TURNESA: You know, I hit it pretty well and I putted well again. So, you know, as I told you last night, you're going to have to putt well if you're going to win here. So far I've been putting well through two days.
 JOHN BUSH: ShotLink said it was 159 yards on the 18th hole. What club did you hit in there? 
 MARC TURNESA: 9-iron.
 JOHN BUSH: All right. Questions.

 Q. Could you tell the difference between the greens this morning and the greens you played yesterday? 
 MARC TURNESA: Well, they're a lot smoother. I mean, the speed was the same, but they were a lot smoother. 

 Q. But you kept the same mentality, right? Just hit it solid like you did yesterday, right? 
 MARC TURNESA: Yeah.

 Q. No dribbling today, right, no dribbles to worry about? 
 MARC TURNESA: No. Yeah, I did the same thing. Tried to do the same thing, and it worked out.

 Q. Was it hard to recover from the double at 17 mentally? How did you get yourself refocused when you tee'd off at 18? 
 MARC TURNESA: Not really. I mean, I was a little disappointed, but, you know, there is so much golf to be played. I was just trying to put a good swing on it on 18 and get it in the fairway and make birdie when I put it in the fairway, so... 

 Q. What was your reaction?
 MARC TURNESA: I was a bit surprised. I mean, it looked good. I knew in the air it was going to be close, I thought. So when I heard the crowd, you know, it was a good feeling. 

 Q. Does your mentality change at all now with two days to go? You know you're in for the weekend. Will you be more aggressive, or do you have to fight that temptation?
 MARC TURNESA: No, I won't change at all. I mean, I think I've been aggressive, you know, when you can be. When I'm in the fairway I'm aggressive. There's a few holes you kind of got to be careful on. 
 But, no, I won't change my strategy. Hopefully I hit it in the fairway and give myself a lot of opportunities. 
 JOHN BUSH: Go ahead and take us through the birdie on No. 2.
 MARC TURNESA: 2, I can't remember the holes out here. I hit 9-iron probably eight feet. 
 JOHN BUSH: Okay. Without going through all of them, any others that really stand out? Any long birdie putts.
 MARC TURNESA: The eagle on 18 stood out. 
 JOHN BUSH: That was a pretty good one. (Laughter)
MARC TURNESA: Not really. Yeah, the birdie on 8, the par-3, was one of the toughest holes out here. I hit it left and chipped in, so that was nice. 
 And then, you know, I didn't birdie the par-5s, 9 and 13, which was pretty disappointing. In fact, I made good pars on them. 
 Then 14, 15, 16 was just -- 14 I made a decent putt from eight feet, but 15, 16 I had tap-ins, so... 

 Q. Obviously you're scoring well with your short iron game. Talk a little bit about your ability to give yourself chances. 
 MARC TURNESA: Yeah, I've been hitting the wedges good. I don't know why. I haven't really been doing any extra work with them. 
 But, you know, there are some exceptions. Like 9, I laid up. My caddie said, Let's just lay it up. You're hitting your wedges great. I laid it up to 87 yards and I missed the green. 
 So, you know, for the most part I've been hitting them well, but had a few hiccoughs here and there. 

 Q. Have you phoned your dad yet and tell him about your Golf Channel this afternoon, or is this going to be a surprise for him when he turns it on and sees his kid holing out from 159 on 8?
 MARC TURNESA: It won't be a surprise, because he watches it hole by hole on the... I'm sure he's talked to Bart and Carlise (ph), my supporters this week. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 MARC TURNESA: No, they're from San Francisco. Yep, this is my fan club right there. 

 Q. You think it will grow exponentially if you're still in this position Sunday afternoon?
 MARC TURNESA: I hope not. I like to keep it small.

 Q. A small entourage?
 MARC TURNESA: Yep. 
 JOHN BUSH: Marc, you won the Miccosukee Championship last year late in the season on the Nationwide Tour. You're playing really well on the PGA TOUR this year late in the season. Does it take you a little while to find your comfort level, or is there one reason you can pinpoint that you've found success late in the year? 
 MARC TURNESA: Not really. You know, we've been playing all year long, so you should have your swing dialed in by now. 
 To be honest with you, I didn't have any expectations coming into the week. You know, I missed the last two cuts and I didn't know what to expect. I'm just trying to hit every shot as good as I can and see what happens. It's a great two rounds, but we have two rounds left and you see the scores, so...
 JOHN BUSH: All right. Anything else? 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT