JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 16, 2008
Marc Turnesa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   NELSON SILVERIO: Marc, thanks for spending a few minutes with us today. 62 out there, bogey-free. Guys that came in earlier and were talking about conditions being pretty perfect in the morning. Were they the same in the afternoon.
 MARC TURNESA: They were. They were ideal. I mean, the only difference was the greens get a little beat up in the afternoon. But no wind. Ideal conditions.
 NELSON SILVERIO: Questions. 

 Q. If the greens were beat up like you say, how were you able to overcome that and still score as low as you did? 
 MARC TURNESA: You don't really pay attention -- you try not to pay attention to it. You just read the putt as if they were perfectly smooth and hope it doesn't take any funny bounces. My balls didn't, fortunately. 

 Q. At what point in your round could you tell you had something special going on? Or were you trying to play the shot as it was and not even focus...
 MARC TURNESA: Yeah, I mean, at no point really. I just -- any time you think there's something special going on you usually go the other way. I'm just trying to make a lot of birdies, because it's going to take a lot under par to win this tournament. 
 There's no defense out here without the wind. I'm just trying to play every hole. If I'm in the fairway I'm trying to hit it close and make a putt.

 Q. Three weeks ago you were in the same position leading all three days. Just talk about what you learned from that? Did it make you hungry to get right back there?
 MARC TURNESA: Sure. I had a great week at the Viking there and came up short. It was disappointing not to win, but, you know, it was still a good week. You know, I'd like to win out here. 
 That's what every guy out here is trying to do. That would be the dream come true if I could win out here. I think I can do it. It's just a matter of getting it done. 

 Q. Is this your first time playing here?
 MARC TURNESA: It is, yes.

 Q. So all the old stuff you wouldn't even know anything about, like playing with amateurs and playing different courses. 
 MARC TURNESA: Yeah. I mean, I don't really know, but I would be pretty certain that most of the players like this better, you know. Playing one course is a lot better than playing, you know, a few courses.

 Q. Mentally, how were you coming into today in terms of just the way you were feeling about yourself? 
 MARC TURNESA: I wasn't feeling great, to be honest with you. I mean, yeah, you just never know in this game. It wasn't like I was hitting it great and I'm putting great and I was expecting big things. 
 To be honest with you, I came in with no expectations at all. That's probably why I played well. 

 Q. Maybe not a lot people know who you are, but your name is pretty famous. Can you talk about your family and what that's meant to you. 
 MARC TURNESA: Yeah, I mean, I'm proud of where I come from. A lot of golfers in my family, and some pretty good ones, so it's nice to -- you know, it's nice to come from the Turnesa name. My dad is a golf pro as well, a club pro. 
 So all those good players, it was my grandfather and his brother. So my grandfather and great uncles. It's kind of second generation. 
 It's not like I grew up, you know, playing with those guys or anything. You know, all the history I know is just from reading just like and you everybody else. 

 Q. With the pressure is it hard to carve out a niche with all that? 
 MARC TURNESA: Not really. I mean, it's hard to play on the PGA TOUR, you know, I don't care what your last name is. It's not any added pressure having Turnesa as a last name.

 Q. With everything you did today, you've got some really solid momentum going into tomorrow and into the weekend. How do you build on it? What's going to be the key when you come out early to getting off to that good start like you did today? 
 MARC TURNESA: Well, I just need to keep making birdies really. You know, this week is going to be all about putting, and obviously I putted great today. You know, you can't put pressure on your putting. All you can do is try and read the putt and try and put a good stroke on it. 
 At the end the week here, you're going to see -- the guy that's holding the trophy is going to be probably putting the best. 

 Q. It seemed like a few of your family members took some time off or went different directions. Did your dad play professionally?
 MARC TURNESA: Yeah. Well, not on TOUR. Like I said, he's a club pro at a course in Long Island called Rockville Links. He never tried to make it out here. He plays in section events and things like that, but he never tried to play the TOUR.

 Q. Do you have a cousin or somebody else that's trying to play competitively?
 MARC TURNESA: I do. He's actually on the other side though. I got a cousin that's trying to play professionally. And my brother, he's an assistant pro, as well. He's not trying to play out here, he's just a club pro.

 Q. Can you talk your introduction to the game? Did they you really push you, or did they let you... 
 MARC TURNESA: No, they let me do my thing. I grew up a mile from the club my dad is a practice at. I would get out of school and I would go to the golf course. It's jsut something that I loved to do, and that's where I spent most of my time.

 Q. Any moment or like Christmas memory or something where they're around telling stories?
 MARC TURNESA: When he was really young, my grandfather -- I can remember like Thanksgiving dinner asking him questions and things like that, him telling stories about Byron Nelson and Sam Snead and all those guys who he was quite friendly with. 
 It was so long ago and I was so young. I wish -- he died in 2000, so I wish I was smarter then and I would have really picked his brain. But, you know, he would tell a few stories here and there about Byron Nelson. 
 I remember one, his streak of, what did you win, 12 in a row? I think that right there in that stretch, my grandfather was beating him pretty bad in the PGA Championship. Back then it was matchplay. I think he was four out with three -- or he was three out with four to play, and Byron Nelson went birdie, birdie, par, eagle or something. 
 You know, it was pretty amazing stuff to hear him tell the story. That was in the semifinals of the PGA, and he went onto win the PGA and then win a few more. Probably a record that you'll never see broken in golf, that streak that he had. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 MARC TURNESA: Yep, yep. I should be in good shape. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 MARC TURNESA: I don't get ahead of myself. There's so much more golf to play. 
 NELSON SILVERIO: All right, Marc, thanks a lot. 
 MARC TURNESA: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT