STANFORD ST. JUDE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 7, 2008
Marc Turnesa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARC TURNESA: It played a little bit easier than the previous two days. The wind was still blowing, and the greens are getting a little bit firmer. It wasn't an easy thing out there.  
  
  Q. You really saved some shots today with your short game, came through for you.  
 MARC TURNESA: I think so. You know, I played some solid holes and hit some good shots, but I also hit some wayward shots and recovered sometimes, and sometimes, you know, I made few bogies today and a few birdies.  
  
  Q. Just barely missed the target there on 18. The ball went in the water. A lot of talk back there. What was going on?  
 MARC TURNESA: Just trying to determine where it crossed. I saw it bounce twice. So I thought it crossed the first time for sure, but we didn't know if the cross -- if i t crossed again where the ball trickled down in the water. They got it on TV and sorted it out for us.  
  
  Q. Solid play. Keep it up over Sunday.  
 MARC TURNESA: Thank you.   
  
  Q. What happened on 18  
 MARC TURNESA: I pulled it a little bit. I thought I might have a chance to catch the fairway and kick right down there perfect. Little too far left.   
  
  Q. Still very much in this tournament. Does this make you more offensive tomorrow?  
 MARC TURNESA: Not really, because you can't really be offensive on this golf course. I mean, it's pretty difficult, and there's some good pins out there with some firm greens. So you kind of take your shots when you can, but for the most part, you're playing defense.  
  
  Q. How difficult -- no wind but the heat out there today. Was it tough throughout?  
 MARC TURNESA: It was hot. No doubt about it. You know, I come from Florida, so I'm used to it. And the course isn't too hilly, so that's not an issue. It was hot. Just drank a lot of water and go.  
  
  Q. What are your expectations going into tomorrow?   
 MARC TURNESA: I expect to play well. I mean, hopefully I'll clean up a few of the mistakes I made today and eliminate some of the bogies and, you know, put around in the 60s up.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT