SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SBIA
January 30, 2020
Sebastian Soderberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  5-under par today. What do you put the performance down to?  
SEBASTIAN SODERBERG: It was very good on the back nine. It was a little off on the front but I hit some quality shots on the back nine and was solid with the putter inside ten feet. It was a nice round.   
 Q.  Your pace of play was positively terrible today compared to the final round last week where you set your record,9 6 minutes, official record on The European Tour for the fastest round. How easy was it fitting back into regular pace on the Tour?  
SEBASTIAN SODERBERG: It was fine. I mean, I think it was just kind of -- I think it helped my mind reset. I've been hitting the ball quite well on the range and doing some good stuff but I was still struggling on the course. Just try to maybe think a little less and I think we still had a pretty fast round today. It was way, way below average. It was a nice pace.   
 Q.  Big push at the moment in golf, quickening of pace, new rules and regulations put in by The European Tour to help that happen. Is it something that you feel quite strongly about; that you want to see golf played quicker? Does it have a big effect on how you play out there if it's really slow?  
SEBASTIAN SODERBERG: Sometimes it's brutal and makes a big difference with the refs are pushing you, and with new rules it helps a lot because people will realise that they are pretty close to getting penalties if they don't move a little faster. I like the new rules.   
 Q.  A round of 5-under 65. How would you reflect on that?  
SEBASTIAN SODERBERG: It was very good on the back nine. I was a little off on the front but stayed patient and gave myself a lot of good chances on the back nine, so it was quite nice. Had a terrible warm-up, so I was a little surprised.   
 Q.  What was wrong with the warm-up?  
SEBASTIAN SODERBERG: I couldn't hit it straight. So I mean, sometimes that can help. I didn't expect much when I teed off. Figured I would go out and force the ball into the hole. I mean, eventually I started hitting some really good shots and it weighed off. It was quite nice.   
 Q.  Did the mind-set change?  
SEBASTIAN SODERBERG: I mean, I felt like I've done it so many times. You have a bad warm-up and you go out and play really well. I was trying not to get expectations because of that. I just didn't know -- I felt like I could shoot 5-over or 5-under before I teed off. It was just kind of, anything can happen, but thankfully it was for the better.   
 Q.  You must have been delighted with 1-under through the turn then. Was there a particular moment in the round that clicked the round into gear?  
SEBASTIAN SODERBERG: I would say on 11, I hit a terrible wedge into the par 3, and just kind of the way I handled it. I didn't get too upset. Those kind of things can help me a lot when I'm getting into the right mind-set and I was able to save par and knock in a few birdies after that. I think that was kind of the point when I felt good about the round.   
 Q.  How were conditions out there?  
SEBASTIAN SODERBERG: I mean, they were quite nice today, I would say. I mean, compared to Dubai, the greens are a little softer. Still a little bit firm, but so much softer, and it just instantly feels a lot easier.   
These green areas are quite tricky and it doesn't take a lot to short-side yourself brutally. Thankfully I was able to miss in the right spots when I missed.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT