U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2016
Kelly Tan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So for every birdie there was a bogey, right?  
KELLY TAN: Again, you know, the course just kept playing tougher.  And obviously playing in the afternoon is just going to get hotter and hotter out there.  So it's kind of like, you know, it's tough and I'm happy with the way I played today.   
 Q.  What was the hardest part of the difficulty?  Was it the greens?  Was it the wind?  What was it?  
KELLY TAN: I think it's a little bit of everything.  Obviously, the wind, when you putt you're trying to -- hopefully you don't catch a gust.   
Yeah, I mean, the fairways are firming up.  The greens are firming up.  So you've got to know how much your ball is releasing out and stuff like that.   
 Q.  You're near the top.  That's a good position to be.  
KELLY TAN: Yeah, I haven't looked at the leaderboard.  But, again, I'm just trying to complete my goal every day and not really worrying about the outcome.  So I did my job today and I'm happy.   
 Q.  What was that goal for today?  
KELLY TAN: Just be happy out there, enjoy the game and stick to my game plan.   
 Q.  What's the goal for the weekend?  
KELLY TAN: It's going to be the same thing.  It's boring, but it's enjoyable to do that.   
 Q.  By doing that, is it easier -- how does it work with the pressure for you or do you even feel the pressure while you're just trying to --  
KELLY TAN: I think for me to not think about the results helps me to be really calm out there.  To try to, you know, really go one shot at a time, to do my thing, my routine, go through my process, and that's really the only thing I was worrying about out there.  Just take whatever it gives me.  And it's another chance, that's how I look at it.   
 Q.  You had a good span of time at KPMG.  How much has that helped you here?  
KELLY TAN: Yeah, you know, I gave it a good run there.  Just, again, like I said yesterday, just a matter of being comfortable when you're at that position.  And I think the more time I put myself in that position, the more comfortable I'm going to get.  So it's always a learning process.  So I'm just going to keep doing what I'm doing and I'm sure I'll get there one day.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT