SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 11, 2015
Kelly Tan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KELLY TAN: It's as pleasure to be part of the Malaysian Angels, and it's a pleasure to be playing at home.  It's been a great week.  I really appreciate all my family and friends and fans that came out this week to support.
It means a lot to me.
THE MODERATOR: This tour hits 14 countries over the course of the year.  You're all over the world.  Is this something you look forward to on the schedule every year?
KELLY TAN: Yeah, definitely.  I always look forward to come back to play the Sime Darby LPGA Malaysia.  It's just great to be home, like I say.  It's a good time where I can come home and I get to play in front of my family, which I don't really get that when I'm over in the U.S.
I get to spend time with them.  It's just really fun.
THE MODERATOR: I think this is the fourth year you've played this.  How have you seen this build up over the years?
KELLY TAN: It has grown so much.  Just by the way they set it up this year it's so amazing.  Like the 18th grandstand and all the food trucks and the course just keep getting better every year.
It's been really fantastic.
THE MODERATOR: Sime Darby announced plans to continue this tournament.  It will be back next year.  How excited are you about that?
KELLY TAN: Like always, I'm really always very excited to come home and play.  I thank Sime Darby for the support and belief in women's golf.
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. Mission accomplished?
KELLY TAN: I know I could have done a lot better, but I still walk away from this week with a lot of positives, definitely.
Q. Where do you go from here?
KELLY TAN: I'm actually done for the year, which is really exciting.  Get to keep the golf bag somewhere and go have one with family and travel.  I can't wait.
Q. How much is that lay off?
KELLY TAN: I've got two months and a bit.
Q. So you just chilling out, is it?
KELLY TAN: Yeah.  I'm going to take out from golf for at least a month.  I'm going to go on a family trip in two weeks' time.  My birthday is next week so I am excited.
Q. Talk about your experience over the four days, how you played.
KELLY TAN: Yeah, I had a great start today.  Birdied my first hole, which is the 10th, and got the momentum going.  Just didn't, again, hole as many putts as I would like to get the round going.
But it's still a great round.  I've made a lot good par saves today, too.  But overall, like I say, I know I could have done a lot better.
I've analyzed it already with my caddie.  We just look back, and I didn't really score on the par-5s.  I'm 1-over all week, which is not great.  So when you play the par-5 great, that's two, three shots, easy.
But it's still a good week.
Q. What do you work on in the off-season?  After two years out here, what do you see as an area for improvement?
KELLY TAN: Yeah, I'm definitely going to keep focusing on my fitness.  Playing amateur golf you never have 20 weeks in six months.  Playing on LPGA you just have got so many events on the calendar and you just need to really plan those really well.
At the same time, you got to stay really fit, too.  That's what I'm going to be working on this off-season.
Q. What did and didn't work out this season?
KELLY TAN: I'm going to go back and say that my putting.  I definitely want that putting average down next year.  I've get been working really hard with my coach, too, so hopefully I'll get the result next year.
Q. Kelly, you made the cut in three of the four majors that you played in this year.  That's a very good, positive part of your game.  Is it that you're no longer playing with pressure when you're playing those sort of big events?
KELLY TAN: I wouldn't say there is no longer pressure, but I look at it in a way that it's another event and go out there and do the same thing.  I think the difference between 2014 and '15 is as a rookie you never -- I didn't know what to expect at the major.
You go into the week thinking that it's a major, and that puts in a lot of the pressure.  This year you been there; you played in a major; you what it's like.  It's just another event.  That's how I treat to this year.
Q. (No microphone.)
KELLY TAN: No.  Like I say, there is a lot of positives this year.  I've made more cuts and there is more consistency that I can see in my stats.
In 2014 it was really the one event that saved me that I finished fourth.
Yeah, I still think that this year I've got a lot of positive out of it because I've made more cuts and my scoring average and everything else was more consistent.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT