SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 8, 2015
Kelly Tan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, delighted to welcome Malaysia's top-ranked and top-placed player to the media center this afternoon.   
Kelly, thank you for joining us.  Good round; 1-under par for the day.  Talk us through your round today.   
KELLY TAN: Yeah, I played to be here.  Played great all day.  Ball striking been really good.  Just didn't really have those putt going in the first few holes.   
But on the back nine everything really starting to come back together, and was I was really pleased because I was staying patient all round.  Just happy that the results are coming, starting to show.   
THE MODERATOR: You mentioned the back nine.  Two birdies there.  Birdie on the 17th.   
KELLY TAN: Yeah.   
THE MODERATOR: How is the course playing?  Did it change with the weather?   
KELLY TAN: Yeah, bit of rain, but the greens s a little softer.  The green was a little softer and slower, but I get to get on the putting green before I go out, so I got a feel the green and chip a couple and just mess around.   
I get the feel before I went in there.   
THE MODERATOR: Any part of your game you're going to focus on in particular for tomorrow?   
KELLY TAN: Well, like I say, I been striking the ball great.  It's just those putt.  But knowing you can't make everything, you know, you just got to stay patient and be aggressive when you can and take those opportunity when you can.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  (Question regarding playing with Stacy and So Yeon Ryu.)  
KELLY TAN: Oh, definitely.  Both great players.  Both great human beings, too.  Just really nice on the course.  You know, just it was a pleasure to be playing with them and just get to watch what they actually do on the golf course.  Even though I get to the play on the LPGA, I don't really get paired with them.   
This is the first time I get paired with Stacy and So Yeon at the same time, so it was great to see what they do on the golf course.  It's just amazing that they are so calm.  It was really amazing.  I'm just trying to learn.   
 Q.  Feelings on the first tee box this morning?  
KELLY TAN: Hey, it was way better than what I thought it would be.  You know, I spoke to my coach about it, and we kind of do a little bit of the mental stuff, do the breathing.  I was very pleased with the way I -- I mean, of course still nervous, but it wasn't like I-can't-hit-this-golf-ball feeling.  (Laughter.)   
THE MODERATOR: Any final thoughts ahead of tomorrow?   
KELLY TAN: You know, I'm just going to go out there and do the same things and believe those putts will fall for me.  All I need to do is be patient really.   
THE MODERATOR: Much support out on the course today or was it fairly quiet?   
KELLY TAN: The first nine was pretty quiet, but we got a few crowds following us on the back nine, which was nice.  I think that's why I perform better.   
 Q.  Kelly, was this your best start ever for tournament in Malaysia?  
KELLY TAN: Yes.  In Malaysia, yes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT