SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 12, 2014
Kelly Tan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. 3‑under at one point.   Two bogeys on the way in.   Satisfied with your round?
KELLY TAN:   Yeah, that hole just didn't treat me good this week.   I bogeyed four days in a row, and just doesn't seem like my kind of hole.
But, you know, I moved on.   Hole 9 just didn't hit a good drive.   I just have to punch out and hope for the four, but didn't happen.

Q.   Overall your performance this week?
KELLY TAN:   I thought I handled myself pretty good.   It's good.   I mean, not the best I could do. 
You always look back at rounds that you know you can do better.   Just one of those weeks that you know you can do better.

Q.   What would you have done differently? 
KELLY TAN:   Of course my first day kind of let me down, put me back a little bit there.   So if I would be given another choice to go out there and play another four days, I'd like to start the tournament better and just hang in there.
Yeah.

Q.   You came into the tournament on the back of a very strong performance in China last week.   Couldn't ride on it or what? 
KELLY TAN:   It's been a long year for me.   I haven't had much time off.   I think my body is a little tired.   I could tell there on the back nine I was kind of just dragging myself through in this hot weather.
Yeah, I still think that I did good.   I'm proud of myself. 

Q.   To have so many people from your family as well as from your hometown come here and watch you this week, you finally made yourself up here to the LPGA.   How does that feel?
KELLY TAN:   I'm very fortunate that I have a lot of fans and family that could spare extra time for me to come up here.   It's three‑hour drive and it's not easy.   I really appreciate their time and everything. 
And also little girls, little fans out there supporting.   I've seen couple of them out there for every single round, so I'm really thankful. 

Q.   So you want to just enjoy the game today? 
KELLY TAN:   Yeah, I thought my temperament was very good out there today.   I just took every shot at a time and did my best.   If it didn't come my way, I just moved on.

Q.   Coming into this week were you believing that you could qualify for the season‑ending championship?
KELLY TAN:   Yes.   Technically I have to win it to get the slot, but I felt as good as I could do, you know. 
Feel really good my game.   Just wanted to go out there and do it, but unfortunately I didn't show the result, the rest ‑‑ my best result, so... 

Q.   What's next?   Anything you learn from this tournament?
KELLY TAN:   Yeah.   Just it's my first year back home playing as a professional in the hometown.   I knew there was a lot of pressure, and I know already ‑‑ way before the event I was just telling myself just try to go out and enjoy myself.
That was the only thing I struggled with, because I took it really seriously.   I wanted to do good.   Every time things didn't come my way I try to fight it, and I thought I should just stay back and relax and still smile out there no matter what happened.
Yeah, if I still have the opportunity to play out here next year, I'm just going to go out there and really, really enjoy myself and do not care what happens.   I felt really fortunate to be out there already. 

Q.   Short break after this?
KELLY TAN:   Hey, it's two months.   Go do some holiday and I don't touch my baby. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT