MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 20, 2014
Kelly Tan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Emotional swing for you.   You were really charging there.   Three straight birdies and then the bogey on 18.   How tough was that? 
KELLY TAN:   You know, I knew I got to make 4 here because I think it's another five holes and the last couple are really ‑‑ pin position wasn't that tough.   Two par‑5s to finish.
I know that I need the 4, but I don't know what happened there.   I think adrenaline.   You know, I just hit and land over and I have a tough chip.
Disappointing.   Of course it's not a pretty finish as I want to, but I played great all week.   Strike the ball the best, you know, ever since starting this season.
Starting to putt better and gave myself a lot of chances and just kept rolling them in.   I will just be patient, you know. 

Q.   Did your confidence grow as the week went on then?
KELLY TAN:   Yes.   You know, when I first arrived here I knew the golf course, you don't have to hit it miles.   You need to hit it straight.   Roll the putts in, you have the chance. 
It doesn't favor the long hitter and I'm not the long hitter, so I knew I had a chance.   Just got to keep hitting fairways, keep hitting greens, and roll the putts in, you know. 
And I did, but looking back I knew I left a couple putts out there.   I knew that I would be right up there with the girls.
I'm still very happy the way I finish.   The best finish I have for the whole year so far.

Q.   Were you pretty excited going into today?
KELLY TAN:   Yes, I was very excited because I warmed up great.   On the putting green I just see every putt that I want to hit.   They're just rolling into the hole.   Just couldn't wait to get up there. 
I played great on the front nine.   Just made a couple mistake on the back nine, but I am still very happy the way I finish.

Q.   How did you think this will affect you going forward?   Has to be a boost I would think, right? 
KELLY TAN:   Yes.   I mean, you know, as a rookie it's always hard.   You always feel like you're a little behind because everybody else has played the golf course.
It's not saying that we are disadvantage, but it's always hard coming as a rookie.   You always have to try to step up with the other girls. 
You know, with this finish I think I'm going to be pretty happy going into the next few events.

Q.   This was your first time here? 
KELLY TAN:   Yes.   First time as a rookie on this tour, too.

Q.   What were your impressions of the tournament?
KELLY TAN:   Hey, it's great.   You know, looking at all the fans and amount of volunteers they got up there is just great.   We players appreciate all the volunteers.   They could have been doing something else than coming out here helping us.   I really appreciate it. 
And the fans, it's great.   Finishing hole is like thousands of people around you.   It's great.   I can't wait to come back next year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT