SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 16, 2011
Kelly Tan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   KELLY THESIER: We welcome leading amateur in the field, Kelly Tan. First off, congratulations on your performance. Can you give us your thoughts on the week and how everything went for you.
 KELLY TAN: Actually, everything went well this week, and I played solid golf. Just a few holes that it didn't break, and, yeah.
 KELLY THESIER: This is the second year in a row you've played in this event. What does it mean to be able to play in an LPGA event in your home country? 
 KELLY TAN: This event means really big to me, and it was -- this is one of my goals that I want to finish the best amateur and the best Malaysian to finish. I played -- this event is very good, and it's a lot of pressure this year that I'm playing. I'm happy that I handled it well. 
 KELLY THESIER: I know you had some fun experiences this week playing with Michelle Wie and Natalie. What can you gain in experience by being around these LPGA players? Did you talk to quite a few of them while you played this week.
 KELLY TAN: Yeah, I played with Wendy yesterday and I played with Juli today. They have been very nice to me and they asked me if I want to go to any school and they would be happy to help me. It's been very nice. 

 Q. Inaudible.
 KELLY TAN: Yeah, just some silly mistakes that I made. Yeah, just silly mistake but I have a lot of good recovery putts and shots, and I'm happy with it. 

 Q. (Inaudible. 
 KELLY TAN: No. It's just my own expectations. It's different. I wanted it to be a lot better and that's one of the pressure that I'm putting on myself. 
 I don't know what to do next year. 

 Q. You learned --
 KELLY TAN: Yeah, I learned a lot. It's like a job really. When I was thinking about Yani, when I first met, like see her in person, I always thought that, you know, she's just golf, golf, golf. But actually, no. They enjoy it while they have to and maybe -- inaudible -- while they have to. It's probably very important thing. 

 Q. Where do you train --
KELLY TAN: Yes, I just got to Florida eight months ago. I have been there for eight months. Me and my coach, we have been through a lot of swing change and I still have to get used to it. I think I handle myself pretty well under my swing change, and I still be able to play -- not a great score, but reasonable, normal. Not bad. 

 Q. Inaudible?
 KELLY TAN: Out there, a bit longer than last year and my short game has improved a lot compared to last year. 

 Q. (Inaudible.
 KELLY TAN: Mental conditioning. Put it this way, four of us, three of us is in the States and we have all of these good opportunities in the States that you can go to any of the conditioning for a couple of days and good weather there. 
 I think for me, I don't play against any of the players. I just want to play my best every single hole. If I beat the course, I beat everybody. If I beat myself, I beat everybody. That's how I putt it and not saying like, yes, I want to beat you today. 

 Q. What's next --
 KELLY TAN: I have a few junior events when I go back and the highlight will be the (inaudible) games this year. That's my target. I will try my best and it will be very nice if I get to go. 

 Q. Inaudible.
 KELLY TAN: The time difference and jet-lag and stuff, I try to get myself used to the time, let's say, like flying back today and it's tonight, I try not to sleep on the plane and try to adjust myself on the plane. And, yeah, flying around, the travel -- not the travel, like causes problems I think. 

 Q. Inaudible.
 KELLY TAN: No, my body, it crossed the water but it didn't cross the margin so I have to drop back. So the line was about -- no, no, I'm very sure that my body didn't cross the margin. And all of the players saw that. 

 Q. Are you --
KELLY TAN: Yes, I'm looking towards that, and yes, I want to make golf my living. And I'm still planning on turning pro maybe next year, next summer. Did I? No, I don't think I would say that. I plan to, but, you know, anything can change.
 KELLY THESIER: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT