SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 29, 2017
Kelly Tan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts on the week?  
KELLY TAN: I just want to take three holes out of this tournament really.  The rest was pretty good.  You know, if I would have take out a nine, a ten and a seven, I think the score would be better.   
 Q.  What can you take away from this, playing on home soil?  
KELLY TAN: Yeah, I definitely learned a lot from my day one, my 18th hole.  This sounds so negative, but like I told a lot of people, you've got to put yourself in that position to be able to learn.  Because that tingling feeling, you'll never be able to feel that unless you actually have done it before.   
So yeah, I think that was the biggest thing I learned.  I think kind of rushed things a little bit.  Everything went fast-forward times ten somehow.  I realized that in the middle of my process, but I couldn't stop myself for some reason.  I think that is something that I have to learn, to slow down.  It's the same shot but you still have to go through the whole process.   
Now I'm going to take one week off golf.  It's been a long, long year.  I'm going to go home now to Johor and see my baby nephew and play with him before I go back to the U.S. and see my coach for a good, solid three weeks before I start my Q-School.   
 Q.  What are things you will work on with your coach?  
KELLY TAN: Just getting more comfortable with my swing.  Actually it was pretty good this week.  I mean, there was a couple of shots that, you know, I was shocked with.  But overall, you know, I hit some really, really good golf shots.  Chipping, putting, is great all week.  I'm going to go back and just get more comfortable.   
 Q.  In many ways, is it about finding a bit of confidence in your game?  
KELLY TAN: Definitely.  I spoke to a lot of top players.  Yani is one of my best players.  Even when she is going down that spiral, she said, not just her, but a lot of the top players, everybody is going to go down this hole somehow.  You just have to learn to climb up.  Once you learn how to climb up, you'll go very high.  I'm just going to trust that this is as low as I can get.  I hope this is as low as I can get and I'm only going up from here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT