U.S. SENIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 30, 2017
Frank Vana
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A little tough to close the deal.
FRANK VANA: Yeah, sure was today.
Q. First time you've been in this atmosphere; right?
FRANK VANA: Yeah, had some really cruddy shots down the stretch.  When I needed to hit good shots I hit some pretty cruddy ones.  Hopefully got those out of my system.
Q. But obviously played very well to get to 2-up.
FRANK VANA: Yeah, and just didn't close the deal.
You know, it would be helpful if I was in the fairway, helpful if I would get to the green, right?  I was a little scratchy and not really putting the pressure on, and he took advantage.  That's what you need to do.
Q. Is it hard to block out what this means, to get to a semifinal in the USGA Championship?
FRANK VANA: Yeah, it's a little strange right because I'm not really thinking that.  I don't really feel that.  A little something going on.  Played easy, but I don't feel terrible.  I am still a little surprised to hit some of those lousy shots.  I don't feel like I am hitting those lousy shots, but I just did.  Just terrible.
Overall I feel okay.  Hopefully I can build on that and keep trying to hit the good shots.
Q. And it's an exacting golf course, right?
FRANK VANA: Yeah, it is, it is.  Windy today, too.  Greens are a little faster today.  You know, just got to think about it a little more.
Q. Yes.  Can you talk about your opponent a little bit, John?
FRANK VANA: He's great.  I mean, Allen, the other San Antonio guy I'm really good friends with; Jack, my caddie.
Q. What's Allen's name?
FRANK VANA: Hill.  So, you know, Hey, we're both pretty easygoing guys.  It was a good match.  We just went and played good golf.  It wasn't really gamesmanship.  Just go play.
We hit some lousy shots and had fun and had some laughs.  It's all good.  One of us was going to lose and that's going to stink, but either way we would be smiling, as he is.  It's all good.  That's what it's about at this point, right?
Q. And I know there is a lot of interest back home, right?
FRANK VANA: Yeah.  I mean, geez, I got a lot of friends, a lot of supporters back there, so I'm sure they're watching and not getting a lot of work done.  They're probably not happy.  I mean, I'm getting a lot more gray hair, which is hard to do.  Just how it rolls, I guess.
I was supposed to be flying with that guy, you know.
Q. What's his name?
FRANK VANA: Lee Howard.
Q. Both scheduled to fly out of MSP tonight?
FRANK VANA: No, no.  We were scheduled to work a trip out of Atlanta tonight.  I was going to go home after I lost in match play.  He got rid of the trip a few days ago to come caddie for his Buddy John Hearse.  I had to get rid of that -- we were scheduled to go.  I was the captain and he was the co-pilot.  We were going to fly three days.  Going to San Jose and then back.
Then it just worked out that -- I had to drop the trip last night.  Scheduling dropped it for me so I could caddie for Frank, and then we ended up playing each other.
We were going to go have a beer in San Jose tonight or have a beer here tonight.  Kind of weird.
Q. Either way he's sticking around, right?
FRANK VANA: Luckily for me it balanced out.  Doesn't always balance out, right?
Q. Yes.  Well, it's tough to seal the deal.  We've all been there, right?
FRANK VANA: Yep.
Q. You've been such an accomplished player.  You're the king of Massachusetts golf.  You really are.  I'm 60 years old, and for my whole life you've been the guy.  At the national level, you've definitely had opportunities.  Does that ever weigh on you?  Am I good enough to be at that level of national prominence?
FRANK VANA: Yeah, you know, when you come to the dance you want to perform.  Honestly, I've not performed quite the way I would've like to in the past, but I've been there and been competing.
The camaraderie amongst this group of guys, a group of those guys that have been pretty successful at this level, and all you can do is just watch them and smile.  A lot of them are buddies.  You know, just have to think to yourself, Hey, do the right stuff, be patient, and you'll get some shots at it hopefully.
Doesn't always pan out that way, but if you stay positive hopefully it will.  I tend to stay on the positive side.  At the moment, it's working out nicely.  See how it shakes out.
Q. As you were chatting with Dave last night, feels like a little bit of a new leaf in life turning 55.
FRANK VANA: Yeah.  I mean, Jack and I are best friends.  Great that he's caddying.  A huge help.  He's been doing it for a number of years and I see how much fun he's having.  We been going different directions because of the age thing and now he and I can travel again.  Some of the best times we had, right?
JACK: No doubt.
FRANK VANA: I got my parents here walking around.  They've walked every hole so far.  God bless them.  They're having a ball.
Q. You remember they called the Red Sox the Cardiac Kids back then.
FRANK VANA: Yeah.
Q. You're kind of the Cardiac Kid of this championship.
FRANK VANA: I got news for you, they're not happy --  it's a little too exciting for them I think at the moment.
Q. Every match has gone to 18 at least.
FRANK VANA: Right.
Q. But, you know, you're getting it done.  I'm sure a lot of people are proud of that.
FRANK VANA: Yeah.
Q. Jack, how many years have you played in this?
JACK: I think this is my sixth one.
Q. So you're 63?
FRANK VANA: 62.
Q. So you've qualified and/or competed in 6 of the 8?
JACK: Yes.
Q. Excellent.  That's a pretty good record.  You've played in many USGA events now.
FRANK VANA: Yeah, like 31, I think.  (Indiscernible).
Q. How would you rate this?
FRANK VANA: You know, I mean, in everybody's mind I imagine it's perfect.  Unfortunate the first couple days were rainy.  It's just a great spot.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT