VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 19, 2019
Cam Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Vanderbilt - 21, Missouri - 14   
 Q.  Ke, Coach said energy was just different this week. What did you see, and how did it translate today, that energy?  
KE'SHAWN VAUGHN: I felt like we keyed in on -- this week it was details and do your job, and we felt like people have been trying to overstep their job, so today the focus was just doing your job. Clearly everybody did their job and we came out with the win.   
 Q.  Coach said Mo just had some sort of juice in practice this week, and he knew he was going to be the starter. Describe the energy and spark he brought today.  
KE'SHAWN VAUGHN: I felt like Mo had more -- I won't say more, but he kind of controlled the huddle. He came in with energy. Every time he came in it was done with a good energy, so that spread around the offense, and when you have that, all you can do is keep going.   
 Q.  Cam, take us through the touchdown?  
CAM JOHNSON: Yeah, I just ran my route and the line held up and had great pass protection. Riley threw a good ball, and once I made the first guy miss, as a receiver unit, we always talk about we're not going to get into the 5-yard line or inside of that and not get our touchdown because we know Ke here is going to go ahead and get the touchdown. Once I got into about the 3-yard line and I saw the guys coming, it was just sort of a man-on-man battle, and I tried to will myself in, and it worked out.   
 Q.  Ke'Shawn, how much does it help out to have a guy who can run a read option and maybe make it a little less predictable that you're going to get the ball?  
KE'SHAWN VAUGHN: Mo? I think that just made the defense be more humble. Mo had to kind of show what he could do, so throughout the game they started respecting him, which is a great thing because it opened up the box for him.   
 Q.  Ke'Shawn, did you do a backflip there at the end of the game?  
KE'SHAWN VAUGHN: Yeah, I did.   
 Q.  How long were you planning that?  
KE'SHAWN VAUGHN: I mean, I was just feeling it, the energy.   
 Q.  Long time coming, I guess?  
KE'SHAWN VAUGHN: Yeah.   
 Q.  Cam, do you feel like you guys found a formula in this one game that can work for the next five games?  
CAM JOHNSON: Definitely. I think that we found something that's going to be good for us, and I think that more of it's us just doing our jobs and us just coming out and executing. I think in the past couple games we've had somebody each time not doing their job or not executing the play correctly, and I think today you sort of saw us, what we can be as an offense and what we can be as a team if we all just execute every play and come out and give our 100 percent each time.   
 Q.  Ke'Shawn, what's the key to that clicking? Why was today different?  
KE'SHAWN VAUGHN: Just start of a new season. The last season ended, and we came out and won our first game of the second half of the season. We put everything behind us. We couldn't do nothing about the past six games we just played. All we could do something about is today, and we went out and got the win.   
 Q.  Cam, what kind of conversations do you guys have as players when you're by yourself after a game? What do you do to get things together and make sure that something like this can happen again?  
CAM JOHNSON: Coming off a win or --   
 Q.  Coming off last week, what were the things you guys were saying to each other?  
CAM JOHNSON: I think we were just sort of telling each other we've got to wake up and we've got to realize that we play in the SEC, too, and we've got to come out and bring that passion and energy every week, and sort of just reiterating what coach mason said. We feel like we have the great to be a good team, and we know we do, we just felt like somebody was trying to overstep their boundaries, and we all sort of talked about having trust in each other, and once we got that, that we'd be able to take the next step forward, and I think we really focused on that this week, and it sort of showed today whenever we were on the field.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT