MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2019
Justin Harding
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. (No Microphone.)  
JUSTIN HARDING: I was happy with it, I handled my emotions pretty well, a bit annoying on the last making bogey. But at the end of the day I'll take it.  
   
 Q. From what you saw the first few days practicing here, how did the course play today?  
JUSTIN HARDING: It's definitely getting a little bit quicker, the ball's running out a bit more on the fairways. I picked up a little mud on a couple of holes. Certainly picked one up on 13.   
   
 Q. (No Microphone.)  
JUSTIN HARDING: No, I think the course is definitely playing better, the greens are obviously going to quicken up and become a little bit tricky. You got to keep it below the hole and sometimes it's easier to chip it to 10 feet than chipping it to four.   
It's one of those weird ones that‑‑ look, I'm not experienced enough to be talking to you too much about the golf course, but I'm happy with the day and we'll tee it up tomorrow and go.   
   
 Q. You've been playing very well recently, do you think this is a form that will continue into this?  
JUSTIN HARDING: I hope. So it's more about I guess how I'm handling myself out on the golf course. Not really getting too worked up, no longer going through the highs and lows of emotions. And, yeah, just ultimately trying to execute some golf shots. And the putter's pretty good, if I read them right, I think give them a good roll and hopefully they will go in. It's one of those weird ones, golf is purely momentum based. If you take enough confidence into the rounds then you're bound to play well just pretty much need to get out of your own way.   
   
 Q. Talk about the first hole. You talk about confidence, your first time playing the Tournament and you go out and make a birdie. How were you able to do that?  
JUSTIN HARDING: Yeah, well that, I didn't hit a very good tee shot there in the practice rounds. I managed to just slide it off the left. I cut a little 8‑iron up there to about 10 or 12 feet and it was pretty simple putt for Augusta. That one going in gave me a boost and calmed me down. I felt like I was okay, I feel it in my legs, walking up the hill, I don't know whether it's uphill or what, but it's just a rough start. But after that I was actually fine.  
   
 Q. You have a nice smile on your face as you talk about it. No matter what happens, you have a good memory for a lifetime.   
JUSTIN HARDING: I said, I told them early, I wanted to stop after 1.   
   
 Q. 3‑under, you must have been happy with that, a 69 at the end of the day.   
JUSTIN HARDING: I'll take it and run if I can ‑‑ we're not allowed to run here at Augusta ‑‑ but I'm pleased, it's one of those where I gave myself a couple chances, I didn't feel like I took advantage of the par‑5s.   
I managed to hit a wedge close in on 16 but other than that it was one of those where you just kind of sneak in a birdie here or there where you can. Managed to hit a couple of fairways. I'm still learning and this golf course is difficult.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT