SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SBIA
January 31, 2019
Justin Harding
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you give me your assessment of the round today?
JUSTIN HARDING: I thought I played quite nicely.  I managed my game quite well.  The only I green I missed was on 8 where I hit it just short.  It's a golf course everyone is still trying to learn.  If you put it in play, it's short enough to where you feel as if you can attack some flags.  You are going to have times where you are going to get frustrated when you aren't making a bunch of birdies.  Scores will be good this week and I'll be happy to post a good one to start.
Q. Everybody says the 9th hole is the hardest.  Nice to finish with a birdie?
JUSTIN HARDING: It's a tricky fairway to hit, especially with the wind coming off the left.  It's one of those where you're going to hit it in the right rough and hope for a lie and see if you can chase one up to the front.  I did that and Ross hit it even closer than me, so we both finished with a birdie and capped off a pretty good day.  All three of us, including Joost, played well.
It was nice to have a group where everyone is making a bunch of birdies and not too many mistakes.
Q. Having played the course for the first time, do you think this course suits your game?
JUSTIN HARDING: You've got to have a bit of patience.  As I said, it's one where you feel as though there are a bunch of birdies out there.  You can make some mistakes if you short-side yourself but it's a golf course which I kind of feel like I'm happy on.  Still learning.  The greens are obviously a bit different.  There's a couple of them back home like that but these are obviously still new.  They are a bit tricky to read sometimes.  Missing a few putts which I wouldn't otherwise like to miss but it was all in all a good day.
Q. You must be happy you've got off to a good start in the season?
JUSTIN HARDING: Yeah, I played nicely in Hong Kong and Mauritius and posted a couple good results and last week, as well.  Just seeing if I can keep riding the wave and momentum and push on.
Q. You just sort of mentioned there, you only got in last week with your finish in Dubai.  You didn't have this tournament on your schedule initially by virtue of not being in it.  Are you happy to be in it now as a first-time look at this tournament?
JUSTIN HARDING: Absolutely.  It was one of those where I snuck into Dubai, obviously, through Asian Tour, so that was also one which wasn't really on the schedule come end of December and stuff like that.  I was pretty much going to start my run in Singapore and then go on to Australia.
To have snuck into these two and played well, it's an added little bonus.  I mean, look, my goal this year is obviously trying to secure playing privileges or full playing privileges in Europe.  The easier and quicker I do that, so to speak, then the less stress on me towards the end of the year.
But it's a different experience over here.  It's nice.  It's actually quite relaxed.  We've obviously don't have a bundle or a bunch of crowds, but it's a good golf course and should be a good test.
As I said to the guys earlier, there's going to be a bucket-load of birdies.  The mornings, if it's still like it was today, there's too many birdies out there, so you have to go out and shoot good scores.  It's not really the way I always like to play.  I like to just kind of cruise my way around, but look, at the end of the day, I've got a bit of confidence and I'm just going to see if I can ride it and see how long it goes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT