MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2019
Justin Harding
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you assess your round out here today?
JUSTIN HARDING: It was a difficult one. It really was. I got off to a good start, a great start, actually, I thought that was me (No Microphone.) from that point onwards but it didn't really turn out to be the case. It's just a matter of fine margins around hearings it really is. I think I probably hit it just about one inch too short on 4 which pretty much more than likely would have been a tap‑in par and maybe I don't bogey 5. So it's just one of those, it was a strange day, I felt a little bit out of sync, maybe it was nerves, didn't really feel that I had very good control of the speed of my swing, and that just resulted in a few too many bad shots really. And I got bailed out by a good putter again.

Q. Proud of how you hung in there and still shot a 4‑under?
JUSTIN HARDING: Absolutely. Look, I've been putting good, I felt like I've had good speed on the greens and I've read them pretty well, so it's just a matter of really trying to give yourself as many chances as you can. 
Once I birdied 12 and 13 again I kind of figured it might just sorts of be the same sort of day as yesterday and threw it away with a bad second shot into 14 and got lucky to come out of there with a bogey. But look, at the end of the day, the birdie on 17 was an absolute bonus and I managed to par 18. Which is good. 
(Laughter.)

Q. What's your mentality for tomorrow? 
JUSTIN HARDING: Keep grinding, really. Each day is kind of its own little puzzle, today was a difficult one to solve, I thought that I was quite pleased shooting 70. The golf course is by no means easy, so it's one of those where if you find yourself hitting a lot of good numbers you can attack some flags. And me out of sync and not really having too many good yardages, it's just going to be a tough day. So I was happy to get it in and, look, hopefully tomorrow is a bit better.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT