MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2019
Justin Harding
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Just a bogey on the last. What kind of changed for you as you got in Amen Corner?
JUSTIN HARDING: Lovely bogey on the last. It was a grind all day, really. Left myself in between yardages, couldn't really get anything close. It's kind of hard to pinpoint yardage, especially trying to leave it below the hole, that sort of thing. But just kind of hung in there. I managed to make a good putt on 12. Hit two good shots on 13. And then rolled in a good one on 14 and it kind of just kept me on, and kept me going, and then another par save on 16. Less than spectacular tee shot. 
Yeah, just trying to dealing with what we've got on the day, really. Seemed like it was a bit of a struggle and I didn't feel like I was there. And hit some lose tee shots. But look, I'll take it again. I'm happy. Regardless, I'm probably going to sleep a little bit better not being in the lead. It was a good day.

Q. In the middle of the back nine it kind of kept the momentum going?
JUSTIN HARDING: Absolutely. I think putting is key to just about everything. It's important to be putting for birdie. And not too many bogeys and pars. But you've got to make them at the right time. And I seemed to have got that right today. Obviously I would have loved to have got in for four. 18 seems to be not my friend this week. We'll keep trying for birdies.

Q. You seem to be in great spirit. Does that kind of help you relax as you go into the weekend, is that your mentality?
JUSTIN HARDING: Trying to. It's chuckles and giggles just being here. I'm trying to enjoy it the best I can. I obviously want to be able to execute my shots, regardless. But I've got a couple of friends out here, family is out watching, as well. We're just having a nice time and enjoying the birdies. Yeah, a fun time. 

Q. As you headed to Augusta this week, if family or friends told you you'd be one shot off the lead after 36 holes you would have said what?
JUSTIN HARDING: No, I probably wouldn't have believed you, no. I've played nicely, I really have. Yesterday I thought I had a better control of my golf game. I thought today I was a bit loose, especially with the driver. Normally I'm better than that. But it was again a matter of trying to put it back in the right place and giving yourself a good up‑and‑down chance. And that's pretty much what I've done throughout the course of the 36 holes is when I have made mistakes, I've kind of made them and put them in the right places. So I'm at least giving myself a chance.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT