SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 28, 2017
Scott Strohmeyer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You did not appear nervous at all today.  Heck of a round of golf.  Talk about it.  Conditions were tough, but you just kind of cruised along at 68.  
SCOTT STROHMEYER: Yeah, just tried to stay patient.  Tried to not really think about where I was.   
Talked to Justin Thomas last night, essentially all week.  He said, Just stay patient, try to do your own thing.  So I just tried to do that today.   
 Q.  You were roommates with Justin in college; obviously very close.  He's on the couch watching you on TV, so I guess he's been sending you a lot of messages?  
SCOTT STROHMEYER: I've reached out to him a good bit this week just because he's got tons of experience with stuff like this.  My first PGA TOUR event.  Essentially take what he's given me but also be myself.  I learned that the hard way I guess three, four weeks ago at Q-School.  I tried to not be myself and it didn't work out.   
Trying to learn from that.   
 Q.  What advice has Justin given you?  He's had lots of success here in the last year and a half.  
SCOTT STROHMEYER: Just keep the ball under the hole and just be patient.  He said, It never takes as much as you think it does.  That helped me relax a little bit, especially yesterday.  Because I was thinking, Make the cut.  He was like, Just try to chase the leaders down one hole at a time.   
Just little things like that that take my mind and put it in a good place instead of somewhere where it shouldn't have been.   
 Q.  Talk about the experience.  You went to the pre-qualifier to get to the Monday qualifier, and in the sudden-death playoff in the Monday qualifier you holed out an eagle shot from the bunker to make it here.  Now you have a chance to win this tournament.  It's been a pretty incredible seven to ten days.  
SCOTT STROHMEYER: Yes, it has been.  It's been a rollercoaster, because when I finished on Monday I thought I was going to miss it by one.  I was kind of kicking myself because I left a lot of shots out there.  Just kind of hung around, just hope for a playoff.   
Then I had to make like a 15-footer on the second hole just to go to the next one.  It's just been an awesome opportunity.   
Just getting here, it's so much fun being a part of this event.  Just kind of been fun.  Any time you have fun, you usually play good golf.  That's been the key really.   
 Q.  Talk about tomorrow then.  Golden opportunity.  A lot of dreams could come true tomorrow.  
SCOTT STROHMEYER: Yeah, just continue to do the same things I've done.  I'll stick with my routine.  Wayne has done a huge job for me on the bag, so we're just going to do the same thing.   
I know I can shoot a good score out here, so just try to be myself really.  That's the biggest thing.   
 Q.  You, Dru, Tom, obviously Justin, Trey.  What is it about the Alabama golf program?  
SCOTT STROHMEYER: Our coach did a very good job of recruiting and developing us once we got there.  We're all really good friends, too.   
Sitting at home I've watched a lot of PGA TOUR events.  Watching all my teammates and buddies play out here and have success, it gave me confidence that I can do it.   
I think we're just all kind of feeding off each other, and Justin is leading the way.   
 Q.  What did you shoot in the pre-qualifier?  
SCOTT STROHMEYER: 68.   
 Q.  What did it take to qualify there?  (Indiscernible.)  
SCOTT STROHMEYER: The pre-qualifier, yeah, I was I think like third or fourth in the pre-qualifier, and then shot 68 again in he Monday.   
 Q.  Did you hang around during that period or did you home?  
SCOTT STROHMEYER: Actually went to Tuscaloosa.  My wide is from Tuscaloosa.  Her family is there.  I went and hung out with them.  Played 18 holes with my father-in-law and sister-in-law and played really well that day, which kind of give a my confidence going into the Monday.   
And then my wife and I went to the Tennessee game just to kind of hang out and have a good time before I came back over here on Sunday.   
 Q.  Okay.  
SCOTT STROHMEYER: It was nice being close to Tuscaloosa and kind of not have to hang around.  I could go have a good time and take my mind off of it.   
 Q.  You said you left a few shots out there in the qualifier on Monday?  
SCOTT STROHMEYER: Yeah.   
 Q.  Were you hitting it close and not making putts, or...  
SCOTT STROHMEYER: I was putting really well and just made some silly mental mistakes.  I made a double on my third hole.  Hit an 8-iron in the water.   
 Q.  On 12?  
SCOTT STROHMEYER: On 12, yeah.  I just wasn't focused.  Then I bounced back and then 3-putted one hole.  Just little silly stuff.  It was almost so easy that I got relaxed.   
So trying to take each round I play and learn something and make sure I don't do that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT