CHICK-FIL-A CHARITY CHAMPIONSHIP
April 26, 2003
Shani Waugh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Good playing out there today.  Thanks for joining us.  Great second round.  You must be happy to be finished with it and happy with your result too.
SHANI WAUGH:  Right.  The three of us were talking, Kellie and Cristie and I, that if we get one thing done today we're going to finish today.  And we managed to do that.  So, it took my mind off my golf game and therefore I played well. 

Q.   What's been the key so far for you?  What's been working?
SHANI WAUGH:  Well I haven't played all that well this year.  I've been struggling with my putting and driving.  And so far this week -- I only had 24 putts today I think.  A lot of them were from a couple of feet away.  I hit my irons really well, drove it in the fairway and like on any golf course or golf tournament, that's vital. 

Q.   Do you like this golf course and if so why?
SHANI WAUGH:   It's pretty special because it was my first ever LPGA event.  I played here in '96 my first tournament.  And so therefore it's just special in that way.  I think it's a really good golf course.  It's a good test, but it's fair.  You can play well, you can shoot good scores.  And I think by the players that are on the leaderboard really reflect that.

Q.   Tomorrow, you'll most likely be paired with Karrie and Se Ri in the final round, what do you think about that?
SHANI WAUGH:  Hopefully, the attention will be on those two.  And I'll probably prefer it that way.  And go I'll just go along and hope to make some birdies.  But I haven't played with Karrie for a long time and I think that will be great.  I'm looking forward to it. 

Q.   Did your third-place finish at last year's U.S. Women's Open help you with your game?
SHANI WAUGH:  I think so.  I felt calm making birdies.  In the past I would have sort of got ahead of myself and got excited about it.  I think the U.S. Open taught me that.  Patience has finally got through my thick head.  Patience is a good thing.  And hopefully I'll be exhibiting some of that tomorrow. 

Q.   Do you feel obligated to fill Annika's role in the final group?
SHANI WAUGH:  That's very big shoes to fill.  I don't think I'll even start thinking about that.  Hopefully I can upstage her.  That would be nice. 

Q.   What did you hit on your second shot into 18?
SHANI WAUGH:  What did I hit?  I barely hit it.  It was an attempted 4-iron. 

Q.   Did you have any other bad swings like that?
SHANI WAUGH:  No, that was the only one.  That was a good probably one example of me getting ahead of myself.  I sort of was thinking about making a birdie rather than thinking about making contact with the ball.

Q.   Well, you definitely didn't have any trouble making birdies today.  You made five out of seven on holes two through eight.  Did you kind of get on a roll there? 
SHANI WAUGH:  Yeah, I did.  And quite a few of them were from just from a few feet away.  And then a couple 10 footers, nothing out of the ordinary.  I bogeyed the first hole, that was annoying.  And it kicked me into gear.  The only long putt I made I think it was from about 30 feet on 16.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT