U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2002
Shani Waugh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  Shani, you were witness to one of the best rounds in U.S.  Open history.  What do you think?
SHANI WAUGH:  It had everything.  She played great, she putted great, her passion for the game and for this tournament gave me a lesson today, and I found myself rooting for her.  The passion she showed for the game at this tournament  -- I really wanted her to win.  Anyone who shows that much passion deserves to win.

Q.  You said yesterday you were going to try to put the butterflies down.  Were they there early on?
SHANI WAUGH:  Not really.  I was pretty calm the whole way.  I was more nervous on the 1-foot putt on the last hole than I was all week, but when you're out there, you get caught up in it, and I'm pretty happy the way I played, actually. 
The double bogey on No. 9 was hard to take.  The rest was pretty solid, especially since Juli was playing so well.

Q.  The consensus yesterday was that it was Annika's tournament to win.  Did we give her too much credit or not give Juli enough credit?
SHANI WAUGH:  Of course, when the No. 1 player in the world is in front at the U.S.  Open, you're going to assume that, but when Juli birdied the second hole, I knew Annika was going to have to shoot under par to beat her, and she didn't let me down.

Q.  What did you learn from a tournament like this?
SHANI WAUGH:  I learned that, for the majority of the time, I can actually stay with these girls.  I don't know why, I finished six or seven -- probably seven shots behind the lead, but got blown away by Juli's great round and didn't let myself down. 
That's the biggest thing.  In the past I would have probably crawled underneath a rock, but I really enjoyed it today, and that's the big thing.  You can go out there and dread it, but today I really enjoyed it.

Q.  (Inaudible)
SHANI WAUGH:  Yeah, she's a world champion fist-pumper.  She kept apologizing to me for her fist pumps, and I was just getting a lesson.  I'm going to go home and practice a few myself.

Q.  You look like you hit a long chip in on 6.  It looked like you were laughing.
SHANI WAUGH:  She was apologizing for the crowds.  I didn't see it, I think she was really shocked when it went in, and she was just apologizing, and I said, "Don't apologize for anything.  Keep going."

Q.  Does it surprise you as many times as she's been playing and as many times as she's won, her intensity, does that surprise you?
SHANI WAUGH:  I can see how she's won so many tournaments.  I think for a normal tournament she gets pretty pumped up, and today I wish I had half of her intensity.  I think I might be a better player. 
She can carry it off, and she could have even gone lower today.  She sunk some putts and played great golf because of her intensity level.

Q.  How much does this tournament and how you played boost your confidence from her?
SHANI WAUGH:  In the past, if I had a good result, I had a tendency to relax and rest on my laurels.  While it was great Juli won, I'm disappointed I didn't get closer.  My next focus is going to be getting a bit more intense about it, and trying to win the U.S.  Open is a big step.  Maybe I'll start with a normal tournament first.

Q.  Thanks. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT