NEW ALBANY GOLF CLASSIC
September 29, 2000
Shani Waugh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SHANI WAUGH: Hit 5-iron on the 2nd to about twelve feet. The 4th missed the fairway;
then consequently missed the green; didn't get it up an and down. Hit a 9-iron on the 5th
to about three feet. Got up-and-down from the rough short of the green on the next birdie.
Hit 6-iron to about 15 feet on 7. Hooked my tee shot on the 9th into the trees. Hit a
pretty good recovery just short of the green; didn't get up-and-down.

Q. (inaudible)

SHANI WAUGH: Probably twelve feet. Hit just through the back edge of the green on the
10th and chipped in for birdie.

Q. How far?

SHANI WAUGH: Probably nine yards. Hit a 9-iron into the 13th just on the back edge of
the green and holed it from probably 20, 22 feet. 3-putt, 16, the front edge of the green.
And birdied 18, 5-iron into about 15 feet behind the pin.

Q. Refresh my memory, did you play well here last year for one round or --

SHANI WAUGH: Two rounds. I think I was possibly 2-under after two rounds last year;
played pretty ordinary on the weekend, I think.

Q. Annika has been talking about how this course -- she just thinks she is going to
shoot well on this course everyday she shows up. Is it the same feeling for you?

SHANI WAUGH: Scary for us, isn't it if she thinks like that. I like the course. Last
year when I played it, I think I had couple of good rounds. I really like the course. I
think that is a big thing. It is pretty generous off the tee and the greens are quite
large, so you still -- I putted well today. I still hit shots close to the pin, that is
important. There is a couple of holes out there where there is a huge potential for
disaster. I think so far I have managed to negotiate those holes pretty well. I have had
some luck today. I chipped in and holed a putt from the back edge of the green. So I think
so far things have been going my way. I holed a bunker shot yesterday - little things like
that.

Q. Seems to be not only on your score card, but Dina's score card and you look at the
numbers up on the board out there, whereas, generous as a course as this seems to be,
there seem to be a lot of birdies and bogeys more so than pars. Why is that?

SHANI WAUGH: I think there is -- each individual hole is either a relatively
straightforward hole or it is really tough and I think that is why you are seeing that. No
sort of in-between holes. They are all either pretty straightforward or they are pretty
scary holes.

Q. Have you been back to Australia to see the Olympics at all or have you been keeping
track of them on TV?

SHANI WAUGH: Yeah, I have been on my everyday and watching it at night. And then in a
way I wish I had gone back. It is always the same when you see your home from afar, it
always looks much better than what it is. And Sydney looks great at the moment.

Q. Are you from Sydney?

SHANI WAUGH: No. My sister lives in Sydney; even she is impressed with the way people
in Sydney have -- well, people who organized the Olympics of what a good job they have
done. I think it looks great on TV. In a way I wish I was there. Especially considering
the Australians, they are doing quite well.

Q. Do you know any of the Olympic athletes?

SHANI WAUGH: I know a couple. I know the Captain of the field hockey team. I went to
university with her. And I think they haven't lost a game yet so they are doing well. That
is the only one, actually. A couple of tennis players, but I think they have been knocked
out.

Q. When was the last time you were home?

SHANI WAUGH: June this year, first time I have been home in winter in ten years, it was
nice.

Q. Say that again?

SHANI WAUGH: First time I have been home during winter. Our season are the opposite of
yours.

Q. In ten years?

SHANI WAUGH: Yeah.

Q. Where have you been all those other years?

SHANI WAUGH: Here and played on the European Tour for five years before I came to the
LPGA. 

Q. So you don't miss home in June?

SHANI WAUGH: (laughs) I must admit, it was quite nice to see it in winter because our
winters are mild. It is not snowing or anything like that. Time I go home is December,
January, when it is stinking hot. It is not that comfortable being there at that time of
the year. It is like being in Phoenix in July, August; not too comfortable.

Q. If we tease people in Columbus a little bit more by saying there is an Australian
whose last name begins with W and is a stroke behind Sorenstam -- (inaudible) what effect
has, I guess, other people have talked about the effect that Karrie has had on her game. I
wondered, what effect, not only on your game, but in any other way, has she had on the
rest of the Australia golfers out here on Tour?

SHANI WAUGH: I try not to -- I don't think I can compare myself to Karrie Webb in any
way except to say we are both Australian because she is a different class, I think. I feel
personally that she has had a huge influence on all of us and the only time we can is
seeing how she succeeds sort of gives us hope, I guess, because you can come from a
country that is a long way away and succeed. I don't expect to achieve anywhere near what
she has done, but a little bit of it would be nice.

Q. Did you come up through the ranks together?

SHANI WAUGH: Yeah, I am five years older than her so my last two years in Australia was
when she first started and even then, everyone knew she was going to be really good. We
just didn't realize she was going to be this good. And when I saw her she was about 4'
foot 10". You couldn't imagine her being a golfer, but she has grown a little bit
since then and she is amazing. I don't think Australians at home comprehend what she has
achieved.

Q. Why is that?

SHANI WAUGH: I don't know. I think Australians tend to -- we have a syndrome in
Australia called Tour Poppy Syndrome (phonetic) where we tend to knock out people who are
successful and so that is just the Australian people knocking someone who is really good.
And I think when Karrie is finished playing golf, maybe Australians will realize what she
has achieved. I think it was really a pat on the back for Karrie for her to be asked to
carry the Olympic flame and Karrie it at the time she did. Lots of Australians carry the
flame, but to carry the day before the opening ceremony, I think was really a big
recognition of what she has done and of women's golf as well, which in the past, none of
us would have been asked. Because of what she is doing, she is helping all of us out.

Q. You said last year you think you were 2-under going into the weekend and then you
didn't do much on the weekend. You are obviously going into the weekend now. Do you have
any thoughts about doing anything differently this year?

SHANI WAUGH: Last year when I played here I was really struggling to keep my card, so I
was under a lot of pressure. This week, I don't feel any pressure because, for me, it is
the last tournament and I am in a much better situation this year than I was last year on
the money list so there is no pressure like that for me. Obviously I want to play well. I
am sure there will be pressure at some stage. But as far as between now and before I tee
off tomorrow morning, I am going to be pretty relaxed, I think. Thanks.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT