CITI OPEN
July 31, 2019
Lauren Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








L. DAVIS/S. Kenin
5-7, 6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How are you feeling with your tennis at the moment?  Obviously it's been a good July for you.
LAUREN DAVIS: Yeah, I've played a lot of matches.  Before the French, I played, like, several challengers.  I think that just kind of helped get the ball rolling, get some confidence under my belt, competing.
But, yeah, really got some confidence, playing well.  I'm happy because I'm enjoying it most of all, so...
Q. You've obviously had success here in D.C. in the past.  What is it about these courts and this atmosphere that brings out the best in your tennis?
LAUREN DAVIS: Yeah, I train in Florida, so I'm used to the humidity and to the heat.  But it definitely gets pretty hot, pretty brutal.
Yeah, I love playing here every year.  I think it's like my sixth or seventh year coming here.  First tournament of the hard court season.  It's like five hours from home, which is Cleveland.  It feels somewhat like home, for sure, after being in Europe for two months.  So I definitely love being here.
Yeah, the crowd's amazing.  The stadiums are really nice to play on, so...
Q. You got off to a really good start today, pretty good finish.  What was your approach heading into the match?
LAUREN DAVIS: Yeah, Sonia has been playing some incredible tennis this year.  I think best year of her career thus far, even though she's pretty young.
Yeah, we train together sometimes in Delray.  I knew what to expect, know how she plays.  So I just had a game plan, and I executed.  At times it wasn't the prettiest, but I competed really well.  Just happy with the way I handled myself and fought, for sure.
Q. At times when she was up approaching the net, some really good streaks, success.  Did you find something that clicked for you in countering that?
LAUREN DAVIS: When she came to the net, is that what you're saying?
Q. Yes.
LAUREN DAVIS: I don't really know.  I kind of just tried to not hit it right at her, but yeah.  I remember I had one forehand passing shot which was a good shot, yeah.  Important point, as well.
Q. You played Iga Swiatek next.  She's had a good year.
LAUREN DAVIS: I think she lost.
Q. Then you don't play her.  You play Jessie Pegula.  Now that you're playing her, what do you think of that matchup?
LAUREN DAVIS: Jessie has had injuries in the past, but she's playing some incredible tennis this year.  Broke into the top 100.  Really nice girl.  I lost to her earlier in the year.
But I'm feeling more confident than I was in the beginning of the year.  Just got some matches under my belt.  Looking forward to a good challenge, yeah.  I'm excited.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT