DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 22, 2017
Lauren Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
L. DAVIS/E. Makarova   
4-6, 6-1, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Just a word on the win?  Just a word on how you managed that?  
LAUREN DAVIS: Yeah, I know her game somewhat well.  I mean, obviously from playing her two other times before this.   
Yeah, she's an incredible competitor, and she just beat Cibulkova yesterday who's, I think, like, 3 in the world.  She's playing really well, so I'm just happy to have executed my game plan well and have come out with a win.   
 Q.  What about your own form?  You won in Auckland now and quarters here.  
LAUREN DAVIS: Yeah, I'm really pleased with the way I have been playing, enjoying myself and sticking to my game plan.  Just really having fun.   
 Q.  Is it also the debut that is a lucky charm for you?  
LAUREN DAVIS: Yeah.  I mean, I guess so.  I'm really happy to be here.  It's an incredible tournament.  I'm happy that I'm playing well here.   
 Q.  Do you ever get this feeling that you're going to be the next generation for American tennis?  
LAUREN DAVIS: Yeah, I think so.  For sure, I don't know how many exactly, but there's quite a few American women in the top 100, which is -- I think it's the most ever in this -- I mean, it's like a domino effect.   
It's really great to see.  We challenge each other and encourage each other and train with each other.  So, yeah.   
 Q.  What would be the goal like for you guys?  
LAUREN DAVIS: Well, I don't know about for everyone else, but...   
 Q.  A lot of you are in the top 50 now; 23, 24.  When you look back at the accident in Charleston, do you think it put you back a few years or something?  
LAUREN DAVIS: I mean, I believe everything happens for a reason.  I believe that happened for a reason.  It was quite a while ago.  I think 2011 it happened when I first turned pro.   
But it really only set me back like two-and-a-half months, so I don't think it's made much of a difference.   
 Q.  And the incident of the wasp?  
LAUREN DAVIS: Oh, my gosh.  He thinks that's so funny, my coach.  (Laughter.)   
No, no, I know the picture is really funny.  That's funny.  Yeah, that hurt.  That really hurt.  I don't know how it got up my skirt, but yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT