SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 2, 2016
Nikki Fargas
Alexis Hyder
Shanice Norton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LSU - 58, Alabama - 49   
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by LSU head coach Nikki Fargas and along with student athletes Shanice Norton and Alexis Hyder.   
Coach, give us your thoughts on today's win over Alabama.   
COACH FARGAS: Obviously a great win for our program.  I thought our team really stuck to the game plan, especially on the defensive end.   
We were able to score the basketball inside with the help of Alexis Hyder.  The guard play, Shanice Norton and Rina Hill, was tremendous.  Anne Pedersen, seeing her knock down shots, it was a great team win.  We're grateful to be able to play some more basketball.   
THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions for coach or the student-athletes.   
 Q.  Coach, I don't want to embarrass Alexis, did you think she was a little bit too hesitant to shoot in the first half?  Were there any conversations for her to take chances?  
COACH FARGAS: I thought she turned down some shots in the first half.  She realized that in the second half she really had to be that dominant force for us.  She represented us in a big-time way.   
She is one of the best players in our conference.  She's someone who has gotten better.  You can see the improvement.  Her teammates count on her.   
I thought today she really answered the call.  She's a really unselfish basketball player, sometimes to a fault.  I don't know if you want your leading center leading your team in assists on every night, but she had five tonight.   
Again, being who Lex is, she just played and gave all she had.   
ALEXIS HYDER: Everybody kind of got on me about passing up shots.  I figured, if I have two, somebody has to be open, if I'm doubled.  That's what it was.  I'm kind of glad my team was knocking down shots.  It opened up the floor for me.   
 Q.  Coach, did it seem like the offense warmed up as the game went on?  Late third, early fourth quarter, kind of pulled away.  Was it a little bit of an adjustment?  
COACH FARGAS: It helps when you're able to knock down those wide-open shots, the confidence that the young ladies showed, the resilience they've shown all season.  I'm glad it paid off at the right time.   
We typically pick and chose when we run the basketball.  Norton was really pushing tempo, even when I didn't want tempo to be pushed.  She saw some things.  Sometimes you just got to let them play.   
They did a nice job in our transition game to open the game up in the fourth quarter.   
 Q.  Shanice, Meoshonti looked like she was going to take the game over.  She had 11 of her first 13 points.  Four points after that, what were the major adjustments you did against her defensively?  
COACH FARGAS: She's a very good basketball player.  Her ability to play off the bounce was really giving us fits.  We were turning the ball over and she was capitalizing in the transition game.  In the second half, we paid a lot of attention to her, especially late in the clock.  We wanted to make sure we covered her.  We would go into our man-to-man defense to really try to disrupt her.   
But she's definitely somebody who we had to make some adjustments at the half for.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
SHANICE NORTON: I think when we went to switch to man, like, we stayed alert and kept communicating with each other so we was all on the same page.   
We just, like, worked as a unit.  We recognized their weaknesses and played against them to our advantage.   
 Q.  Shanice, you spent a couple years here at Potter's House.  Talk about not only playing the SEC tournament in Jacksonville, but getting a win.  
SHANICE NORTON: It was great.  I had people out there supporting us, my coach, Tony, he was out there, some people from my school were out there.  It's always good to, like, come back home, I guess.   
It was great getting a win, too.   
THE MODERATOR: Coach, ladies, thank you very much for joining us.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT