UNIVERSITY OF IOWA BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 25, 2014
Lisa Bluder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COACH BLUDER:   All right.   Well, it feels good to get that one back.   That's kind of been bugging us for a long time, and that's the nice thing when you get to play a team twice is you get the opportunity to get that one back.   I did remind our team after the game that Minnesota's saying the same thing right now about us, because they lost at our place and now we are heading up there on Wednesday. 
We've always played well in the Barn, so we're looking forward to it, and it's Theairra's last chance to go up there and we want to make it a great homecoming for her up there. 
Tonight's game, I thought offensively we did a lot of really nice things.   Defensively, you know, let them have too much of a field goal percentage.   Agler got open for too many threes.   The good things about our defense though, we forced 22 turnovers and we scored 29 points off those 22 turnovers and we boxed out in the second half.   We really challenged the team in the halftime.   We got to box out better and only gave up two second‑half offensive rebounds, so I thought we did a much better job there. 
Offensively, four people in double figures, I love that.   16 assists tonight, balanced scoring, high percentage.   We shot well from every single area.   We got to the free‑throw line early in the second half.   We also had a great crowd tonight and that was fun.   It was fun to win in front of a great crowd like we had tonight.

Q.   How much easier does it make it to fast break when she does that? 
COACH BLUDER:   The great thing about the way Bethany blocks shots, a lot of people will block shots and it ends up in the bleachers and the team gets the ball back.   Beth is really soft with her blocked shots and we often retain possession of the ball, and that's huge in getting our fast break going.   I think she did a great job. 
She downplayed her shot block.   She went into fourth place all‑time for shot blocks in Iowa history.   So she's down playing it a little bit.

Q.   You talked about balance a little bit.   Since you've moved out in the starting lineup, when that starting five is on the floor, it seems to be the idea that anyone can score.   What's that do for you offensively when you have that balance? 
COACH BLUDER:   It makes us so hard to guard because there is nobody they can help off of; there is nobody they can sag off of.   I think when you have five weapons like that our offense flows so much better when we can do that.   Ally did a great job. 
I thought Kali Peschel came in and played some really good minutes for us.   She had an offensive rebound, got fouled on that.   She had to play some five for us today in the first half, a position she's never played or practiced and she went out there and did a really good job with it.

Q.   What do you need to do you keep this going? 
COACH BLUDER:   Win again.   I mean, you know.   We are going to take it on the road now.   We have confidence from winning at Ohio State and Wisconsin, and I think that gives us a lot of confidence going to play at Minnesota and we've always had good games at Minnesota.   So I feel like right now our team is feeling good about themselves, and it's like a snowball.   It keeps getting bigger and bigger as you roll it along, and that is the way our team is flowing right now.   So hopefully we'll take that snowball right up to Minnesota.

Q.   Last time you were here you apologized for your team's performance.   So just talk about how different this feels? 
COACH BLUDER:   Yeah, and Michigan State, obviously a good team.   But I thought we didn't play to the best of our ability.   I don't like losing to a team that played better than us.   But I don't like‑‑ it really angers me when we lose to a team that we didn't feel like we were capable of playing.   I think it's two different things.   When you lose to a team that they're better than you that night, okay, so be it.   But when you don't put your best foot forward, that's what really ticks me off. 
I thought that's what happened against Michigan State.   It hasn't happened very many times this year for our team, but it did happen then.   I thought the way we bounced back from it was very good.   I wasn't a pleasant person to be around in practice for a couple of days, and they responded well to that.   They took it, and they moved on.

Q.   (No microphone). 
COACH BLUDER:   That fast break lay‑up to Theairra was pretty fun. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT