UNIVERSITY OF IOWA BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 11, 2016
Lisa Bluder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Ohio State - 98, Iowa - 81   
LISA BLUDER: Well, congratulate Ohio State.  They played a great game.  It's obvious they're a very, very good basketball team with a lot of scorers out there, a lot of weapons.  I thought that the 10-0 run at the end of the first quarter was just a really tough one for us.  I think we played a good second quarter against them.  But their press in the third quarter hurt us; too many turnovers in that third quarter against the press that resulted in high-percentage scores for them.  I thought Lex came off the bench and did a good job for us tonight offensively, but obviously defensively we've got to improve.   
 Q.  Lisa, is there a common thread in these last three losses that you can look to to improve or focus on?  
LISA BLUDER: I think you need to look at the defense.  Our rebounding was good.  It's been good the last couple of games.  It's just being able to stop people, get the defensive stops.  We had a lead at Indiana, but we didn't get defensive stops.  All we have to do is defensively stop and win that game, and we don't.  And obviously the stops against Michigan State and Ohio State were few and far between and we let a team shoot 58 percent.   
 Q.  Is that a schematic thing you can work on?  
LISA BLUDER: Yeah, it's just more drills.  But defense to me is about effort.  It's about intensity.  It's about getting it done.  It's about not letting them score.  And yeah, that can be easier to handle in player than in zone, but we've got to drill more.  We've got to teach better.  Our coaches, we've got to teach better.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) a little under her scoring average.  Is that the plan to kind of knock her down a little bit?  
LISA BLUDER: You hope so.  I mean, you'd like to.   
 Q.  You talked about the 10-0 run to end the first quarter.  Did you think that took you out of what you guys wanted to do a little bit?  Seemed like after that they were able to speed you guys up a little bit.  
LISA BLUDER: They were able to speed us up, but I thought, it's okay if we get sped up, if we make lay-ups and hit open threes.  That's fine.  We don't mind playing at that pace.  But it's when we're not disciplined to say we're going to take hard shots, contested shots, or shots that we don't practice.  I don't mind playing fast if we're taking the shots we work on every day, open threes, making lay-ups.  But you know, we just got so fast that we started losing our mental focus and taking some shots that we don't really work on.   
 Q.  Despite the loss, you guys still played a tough physical game.  Can you just talk a little bit about the toughness of your team tonight?  
LISA BLUDER: I hope that our team comes out and fights every single game.  Mental toughness as well as physical toughness is just as important out there in a game like this, but we have five games left, and there's no reason why we can't go 4-1.  There's absolutely no reason why this team cannot go 4-1 in these last five games.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT