UNIVERSITY OF IOWA BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 22, 2015
Lisa Bluder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Iowa - 89, Drake 76   
COACH BLUDER: First of all, I know we beat a really good Drake team today, and that feels really good.  We had some goals, non-conference goals.  One of them is to go 10-2.  We achieved that today.  One of them was to be state champs and it's kind of a three-way tie for state championship, but that's better than not having any state championship at all.   
I'm really pleased with our six players in double figures.  Most coaches dream about having five people in double figures and we have six people in double figures, including two people coming off the bench in Whitney and Megan.  And so I was happy about that.   
I was happy about the 21 assists, that's back to Iowa basketball.  They were down last game, we were disappointed in that.  Nice to see us passing the ball.  And, again, I think this is a really good win for us.   
 Q.  You had a nice run to end the first quarter and start the second quarter.  What did you think you guys did maybe a little bit better during that stretch than you were, especially early in that first quarter?  
COACH BLUDER: Yeah, I thought our second quarter was very good.  And the end of our first quarter, once we got into an offensive rhythm, neither team really got -- here is all the hype about two really high scoring teams and neither one of us could put the ball in the hole to begin the game.   
But luckily that changed rapidly.  And I thought we did got some really good looks in the first half.  I don't think we got as good looks in the second half and give credit to Drake for that.   
But I do think the first half we got some really, really nice looks, especially 2-point, our 2-point percentage, if you take out the threes, is 57 percent.  So that's pretty darn good.   
 Q.  Do you enjoy coaching against one of your former players?  
COACH BLUDER: No.  I wish we never had to do it.  Honestly, I don't know why we play this game, I really don't.  I don't like playing against my former players, I don't think it's good for any reason.  Why would you want to beat someone you care about and you really love?  It doesn't make any sense.  I cheer for Drake every single game except for this game.  So I have no desire to play Drake and we have everything to lose and nothing to gain by playing them.  So I just -- it's not a game I really enjoy at all.   
 Q.  You mentioned your goal was 10-2 and the non-conference.  Can you talk about how the team with all those moving parts is coming together and maybe what's a non-conference highlight for you so far?  
COACH BLUDER: The non-conference highlights are right now, being with these guys and just seeing us come back from a really disheartening loss at Iowa State, when we had a good lead.  Then coming together and bouncing back and playing two good games and getting better.  I thought we got better today and that was good.  So just the highlight of looking ahead to the future, we're so young.  We're so young.  And the future looks so bright for our program.  So, that's exciting.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT