UNIVERSITY OF IOWA BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 15, 2015
Lisa Bluder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Tennessee-Martin - 56, Iowa - 62
   
LISA BLUDER: I first want to congratulate Ally on getting to 1,000 points.  You think of the history of our program, and she's, I believe, the 34th woman to receive that honor, and it really is an honor to be in that club.  Congratulations to her. 
I thought Tania Davis just gave us a great spark in this first quarter of the game especially when we were struggling to get something to happen, and she came in and provided offense and defense for us, and I just admire that spark off the bench, and I thought she did a great job.
Otherwise, balanced scoring, four people in double figures.  We always like to see that.  I thought our defense was really good.  Tennessee-Martin is a good-scoring team.  They averaged 73 points a game last year.  They had 84 last night.  This is a team that can really shoot the ball.Q. Coach, you started a 10-0 hole.  What does that say about the group, a new group of Hawkeyes, to come back and win?
LISA BLUDER: I don't like starting out in that hole, and I think we had two slow starts this weekend.  Both nights we had two slow starts, so we've got to fix that.  We've got to be ready to go right off the bat.
I thought we missed some good shots.  I thought we had some good looks, and the nice thing is I don't think we panicked.  I think we kept our composure.  Even through the timeout we talked about things we needed to do. Sometimes when you get that deficit you can just panic and start throwing up really bad shots, and we just didn't do that.
Q. Lisa, when you have so much turnover like you've had, how important is it to have somebody like Tania to come in off the bench? You're down big and then she hit two threes to bring you back up?
LISA BLUDER: I thought that was really the change that we needed, coming in off the bench like that and giving us that spark.  But yeah, she's playing a lot, Megan obviously is doing great things, as well, coming off the bench.  She shot the ball well again today, but personally my favorite thing about Tania tonight was the no-look transition pass to I think Alexa Kastanek, the three-point play.  It was pretty sweet.
Q. Alexa's two three-pointers were huge.
LISA BLUDER: Those were really clutch.  We're talking the last four minutes of a tight game. They went zone, and she stepped up and hit those baseline jumpers.
Q. When you enter these games, are you uncertain who's going to be that three-point shooter with this team right now?
LISA BLUDER: You have kind of an idea, but game to game you don't know. I have so much faith in all of them, it doesn't matter.  If somebody is having an off night we'll go to the next weapon, and I like that about our team.  I feel like we've always strived to have a balanced team, and I think we will again this year.
Q. Coach, with Tania's minutes going from 17 on Friday to 29 today, was that the game plan going forward, or just an in-game adjustment?
LISA BLUDER: In-game adjustment.  Absolutely, we never have any predetermined idea of minutes played for anybody, so you just kind of see what happens and you adjust as the game goes along.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT