UNIVERSITY OF IOWA BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 13, 2015
Lisa Bluder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
North Dakota - 61 Iowa - 83   
LISA BLUDER: I liked our second half a lot better than our first half.  But I think we turned it around the second half.  In the first half we were in such a hurry, and we weren't sticking to what Iowa basketball is all about. I'm really happy that we went into halftime, we talked about it, and the team came out and made adjustments. That is outstanding. 
I'm happy with five people in double figures.  Kali has a double-double before halftime.  She really helped us on the offensive rebounds.  But to start the game, we had nine turnovers in the first half. In the second half we had three turnovers.  To start the game we had six assists and in the second half we had 13 assists.  It was a night-and-day difference between the first half and second half, and that's why we really shot the ball a whole lot better the second half. We had better looks.
Q. How important is Kali's production for you guys this year?
LISA BLUDER: Pretty important.  We need her, and we've told her that we need her to step up and be more of a leader for our basketball team. She is voted captain by her peers, so we have that element.  But then also the scoring element. We all know we lost a lot of points, and Kali was playing great basketball the end of last year.  She knows that we need her, and I'm so happy with the way she hit the offensive glass tonight.
Q. Eight offensive rebounds and also hitting from three, that's the versatility that you don't find in many players.  Is that kind of your charge and is that what you want to see from her?
LISA BLUDER: We'd love to get those kind of rebounds out of Kali all the time.  She's somebody that we expect to crash, but you know we have three people that we want crashing on the floor all the time.  We want our whole team doing that. Kali shot 43 percent or 45 percent from three-point range last year, so she's definitely capable of that.
Q. Coach, how was it seeing Tania on the floor?
LISA BLUDER: I was happy with Tania.  She had a good amount of assists.  I think she had four assists tonight.  That was nice.  It's just so nice to have that depth at that point guard position and the quickness at that point guard position.  A couple possessions we were able to have both Tania and Whitney on the floor together.  That's pretty fun to do, and Tania moves to the point guard and Whitney moves to the off guard in that situation.  She's just going to get better and better.
Q. Quick turnaround before Sunday against a good team.  Talk about what you need to do this next 24 hours here.
LISA BLUDER: Yeah, rest a little bit, get some ice baths tonight, but basically we turn around and have practice from 9:00 to 11:00 tomorrow morning. It's a quick turnaround.  They don't play until 3:30 tomorrow; we'll scout that game, and then at 6:00 we'll have a scouting report ready for the team to go through.  It's not a lot of time to prepare, but it's good experience because when we're in Austin we play three games in three days, so this is great experience for us to have a quick turnaround like this.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT