WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: ROUND TWO
March 11, 2006
Manny Acta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Manny, we've got the four teams here that I think everybody was hoping would be here.  What do you think the scene is going to be like for the next several days? 
 MANNY ACTA:  I think it's going to be a terrific atmosphere.  This is like the real kind of Caribbean series having Cuba here, and I think like everybody was thinking or anticipating, the four teams here are going to have good baseball.  It's going to be easy to keep the intensity levels up with our players because the three games are obviously going to be good games. 
 Q.  How much video and advance scouting do you have on Cuba, and what have you heard about Gourriel? 
 MANNY ACTA:  We had an advance scout following the series, the first round here, and we have some information on them.  Gourriel has been well-documented as one of the top hitters in this tournament.  We are going to go about our business depending on what our advance scout has to tell us after the workout. 
 Q.  I would like to ask you how you feel.  How together is your team, how united is the team feeling?  We have also heard here from Beltran and also from Bernie Williams that he felt somewhat nervous about participating in this game and from other players, as well; however, your team looks incredibly relaxed.  What is your opinion? 
 MANNY ACTA:  Well, I've been impressed myself.  I think everything started from day one when every one of these players were getting to the lobby of the hotel, and I saw the passion and the enthusiasm, and I'm like, "Man, this is for real.  These guys are into this."  The workouts in Kissimmee, the guys have been getting along so well, and they all appreciate the fact that they don't have a chance to get together as much as they are getting right here, and also that it could probably be the last time that they represent their country.  It's been amazing, the atmosphere in our club. 
 Q.  How do you like the fact that they are singing together, that they are applauding together?  What do you feel about that? 
 MANNY ACTA:  For me it is something incredibly interesting.  It is simply wonderful to be able to see all of these superstars who are financially well off and they don't actually need to be participating or doing anything like this and from day one to be able to see them acting like children almost as if they had a new toy.  It is simply wonderful to see Moises who is 39 years old or Reyes acting as such, it is simply a wonderful experience. 
 Q.  Could you talk to us a little bit about the line-up you have in mind tomorrow against Puerto Rico if it's possible for us to know that? 
 MANNY ACTA:  Of course.  Yes, we're going to have the same line-up that we had on the first game of the first round starting with Soriano at second, Tejada at short, Pujols at first, Ortiz DH, Alou in left field, Beltre at third, Encarnacion in right field, Castillo catching, and Willy Taveras at center. 
 Q.  Could you talk about how you feel playing in Puerto Rico? 
 MANNY ACTA:  For me, for us, it's always been a place that we have -- a location that we have felt quite comfortable because there are actually a lot of Dominicans who live here in Puerto Rico, and I think that there will be a greater participation, even more participants from the Dominican Republic here compared to the game that we had with Venezuela. 
 Q.  What are the distinguishing characteristics of the Dominican team, if you will?  What distinguishes them from the other players in the Caribbean?  You talked about Venezuela and Puerto Rico, and you mentioned, as well, in Orlando, that the Dominican team sets itself apart.  What do you mean by that? 
 MANNY ACTA:  When I say that we have the best athletes, I really refer to the fact that we're talking about the best athletes in light of the number of people that we have in my country.  The three countries that are here today are simply wonderful, and it is simply a wonderful, momentous occasion for Venezuela, as well, in light of the number of inhabitants that they have.  Puerto Rico, as well.  The Dominican Republic has produced a lot of wonderful players during the 1990s for the major leagues, as well, and I think that the quality essentially is the same except for the fact that in the Dominican Republic we try to do with what we have. 
 In the Dominican Republic there aren't as many outlets or opportunities.  Puerto Rico has other type of sports that they can use such as basketball and they enjoy a better economic situation.  The only outlet that we have in the Dominican Republic from poverty is baseball. 
 Q.  How is it for you to be able to lead a team as a manager to be able to assure a position in the major leagues? 
 MANNY ACTA:  I think that for me it is -- besides the World Baseball Classic being something wonderful for baseball, I think that this is a wonderful opportunity to help me, as well, and I think that this is a wonderful opportunity that my country has provided for me to be able to be the head and the leader of this team.  I think that maybe the best possible choice for the lead for this team would have been my colleague Felipe Alou.  However, because of some of the regulations that was not a possibility.  It is simply wonderful to be able to see so many of my country -- we have so many superstars and so many wonderful coaches, it is simply both a pleasure and an honor to have been chosen for this wonderful position. 
 Q.  What I would like to ask you is where is the machine that puts out all of these wonderful pitchers?  Where does it come from in Venezuela because previously you were a country that produced a lot of shortstops and I want to know if there's any type of machine that produces all of these wonderful pitchers so easily with such little means. 
 MANNY ACTA:  I think that I cannot provide you with any type of definite answer.  I don't think that there is any type of machine.  We have what is called the bird dogs, and we try to identify the players quite early for the pitchers. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT