AMERICAN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE MEDIA DAYS
July 30, 2013
Matt Rhule
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We welcome Temple University.   Student‑athletes here today are offensive lineman Cody Booth, defensive lineman Levi Brown, halfback Chris Coyer, and defensive back Abdul Smith.   And we also welcome in his first year head coach Matt Rhule.
Coach, an opening statement.
COACH RHULE:   First, on behalf of the student‑athletes and our administrators, let me say thank you for being here.   We're excited to be at media day and be part of this new conference.   I know for me, as a first‑time head coach, this is kind of a first‑time for everything. 
But I want to make sure I say this and say it with pride, that we're really excited about the future of Temple football and Temple football and the American Conference.   And to be amongst these universities and these coaches has been just a great experience for me and for our student‑athletes.
I had the fortune of being at Temple for six years.   I had a chance to be around Al Golden.   And Al did a great job getting us back to our first Bowl game in 32 years.   I had a chance to be around Steve Addazio.   He did a great job of winning our first Bowl game. 
For me now it's my charge and my job to get us to win a conference championship.   So that's what we're doing, that's why we're here.   That's why we're so excited to be here at media day and see the other teams. 
But our team is well at work and ready to go do that. 
So with that being said, I'll open it up and see if anyone has any questions. 

Q.   Can you talk about the transition from your old league to this league and differences that you might face?
COACH RHULE:   I think it's unique for me even as a head coach, usually even as you come into a league, even if it's your first year as a head coach, you can go back and watch some film and see this things, see the people you're going to play, how your players stack up. 
I think one of the things that I haven't heard a lot of people talk about about this league is all the different, unique styles of offense we're going to see.
You turn on SMU, you're basically seeing the run and shoot.   You turn on Houston, and I think they run more plays per game or per minute than any other team in the NCAA.   And then you have Coach Taggart now going down to South Florida.   He was the Stanford tough style of offense, which I'm assuming he'll continue to do.
As we move forward in years to come, teams like Tulsa, the fast no huddle.   So this league is not a league like some others where everyone kind of plays the same style. 
So as a first‑year head coach, the only one I've been around in my time at Temple is Connecticut.   So I have to each week be prepared to go in and, hey, let's try to stop Coach June Jones and the run and shoot this year and stop a pro‑style attack with Teddy Bridgewater and Louisville.   That's a unique story and a league that has a lot of great quarterbacks.   So top to bottom. 
We're excited about our quarterback.   And no one's really talking about him, and rightfully so.   There's a lot of guys in this league that can spin it.
When you have a quarterback‑‑ it's one thing I learned in the NFL.   I asked Coach Kaufman, Any advice?   And guys that know Coach Kaufman, he said, Get a quarterback.   That was it.
There's a lot of quarterbacks.   There's a lot of teams in this league that can win on any given day.   And I think that for me is going to be unique for me. 
But transition‑wise, playing all these different teams, going to new places, I think it's all exciting for us.   And it will obviously continue over the next couple years, but we hope we'll be mainstays and we'll bring stability.
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT