NBA DRAFT 2016
June 23, 2016
Dejounte Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: If you could please start with an opening statement about your feelings about today.   
DEJOUNTE MURRAY: I mean, I'm just blessed to be a first-round pick.  I stayed positive and let God do His job.   
 Q.  You're about to join a very storied franchise, San Antonio Spurs.  Can you talk about what it's like entering a team coached by Gregg Popovich and with veterans such as Tim Duncan, Manu Ginobili, Tony Parker, Kawhi Leonard.  How is that going to help your game?  
DEJOUNTE MURRAY: That's going to help my game a lot.  Those are all vets that you just named.  Great coach, probably one of the greatest coaches that ever coached, and I'm just excited to go learn from all the vets, pick their brains about the game, on the court, off the court and just get to work.   
 Q.  Did you work out with the Spurs prior to the draft?  
DEJOUNTE MURRAY: No, I actually met with them.  That was the first team I met with.  We just had a long interview and it went really well.   
 Q.  What was said during that interview?  
DEJOUNTE MURRAY: I mean, everything.  What every other team pretty much asked me.   
 Q.  Clearly had to be some mixed emotions there.  You had to kind of sit for a while but then it's the Spurs and a team that's vying for a championship every year.  Is it kind of bittersweet?  You had to sit so long, but the situation you find yourself in.  
DEJOUNTE MURRAY: I mean, like I said, yeah, I had to sit a long time, but I didn't pout.  I didn't try to show nothing negative, tried to stay positive, and I feel like I'm going to the best organization in the NBA.  Like you said, a team that contends for a championship every year.  I'm just blessed to be in a position and blessed to be a part of their organization.   
 Q.  What can you bring to a team that just won 67 games as a rookie?  
DEJOUNTE MURRAY: You know, high motor, like Kawhi Leonard; a dude that's willing to work, and I'll never settle for less, never get comfortable.  I love working on my game, and I feel I can help them out in anything.  I feel like my potential of doing everything and my faith and the heart I have for the game and the love I have for the game, I feel like I'll help them out really well.   
 Q.  What do you think, other than that, you can bring to the Spurs, other than that fantastic suit?  
DEJOUNTE MURRAY: I mean, man, I feel like I have the ability to play point guard, big, long, athletic.  I love defense.  That's why I feel like I fit right in with their program, organization.   
 Q.  What do you feel would be a success for you in your rookie season?  You're going to be on a veteran squad.  You're probably going to have to battle for playing time.  What do you think will be success for you?  
DEJOUNTE MURRAY: You know, just going in with the mindset that I've been having my whole life.  I've been underrated my whole life, so I went against all odds and just keep working.  Going in and learning from them, the vets, and trying to push them.   
 Q.  Can you talk about what it's like now that you'll be learning from players such as a Tony Parker and Manu Ginobili?  
DEJOUNTE MURRAY: I feel like it's going to help me out, help my game out.  I'm a dude that likes to do everything.  I like to score the ball, working on my jump shot.  I can get to the basket.  I like that I can make my teammates better.  I can defend.  I just do everything, and learning from them is just a bonus.   
 Q.  And I guess defense is preached very much down in San Antonio.  
DEJOUNTE MURRAY: Absolutely.   
 Q.  What skill do you think you need to work on most as you transition to the next level?  
DEJOUNTE MURRAY: Everything.  Like I said, I never get comfortable.  I could be a great shooter.  I never stop shooting, like Steph Curry.  He's a great shooter.  I'm pretty sure he still works on it every day countless hours.  I feel like I've got to work on everything as far as getting bigger, getting stronger, and in basketball, just working on everything.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT