BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 7, 2009
Ryan Moore
Peter Reynolds
Michael R. Stout
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ERIC WING: We're with the winners of the Breeders' Cup Turf, Conduit. And as was the case with Goldikova, we've got the same group here this year as we had last year. And going from left to right, we have Peter Reynolds, racing and stud manager for Ballymacoll Stud. One seat over from him, is jockey Ryan Moore. One seat from Ryan, is Lady Weinstock of Ballymacoll Stud, and, of course, on the final far right is trainer, Sir Michael Stoute. Congratulations to all four of you. 
  Michael, for you, I know this is the fourth Breeders' Cup winner -- excuse me, the fifth you've enjoyed now by Conduit. Two more in the Breeders' Cup Turf, Kalanisi in 2000, Pilsudski in '96. You also trained Islington to win the filly in Mare Turf in 2003. Conduit this year versus last year - every bit as strong or even better? 
 MICHAEL STOUTE: Yes, it was a messier race this year. Ryan will tell you more about that. But he wasn't as convincing this time. But I think understand under the circumstances it was probably as good a performance. 
 ERIC WING: Ryan, I want to ask you, I know you have pace setters in Europe, but maybe nothing on the order of Precious Passion who laid down blazing fractions and was still fighting there until the end. How did the presence of him in the race effect any strategy you might have had? 
 RYAN MOORE: Well, he was always going to go out pretty quick. And he opened a bit of a lead, which was fine. My only problem was I stopped behind two horses that I didn't want to be following, which wouldn't take me to him. 
 So we actually used a bit of petrol early on just to get him into a nice spot down the back straight. You know, I always thought his class would return in the end. 
 ERIC WING: I know a question, one that hasn't been determined conclusively yet, but a question nonetheless, is whether this may be the career finale for Conduit. Peter Reynolds, Lady Weinstock, I'll let either one of you take a turn at addressing that question. Or if it hasn't been decided, when you think you might reach that decision? 
 PETER REYNOLDS: There's no decision made at the moment. We'll have to see how the horse comes out of the race. But that's entirely up to the great trainer. 
 MICHAEL STOUTE: It could be on his agenda, but we want to get him back home and have a close look at him for about ten days until we make a decision on Tokyo. We would like to go there, but it depends on how he comes through this return journey and the race. 

 Q. Could you comment on the great success that all the Europeans have had here at the Breeders' Cup these last two years at Santa Anita? 
 MICHAEL STOUTE: Well, we're obviously getting better (smiling). 

 Q. Would you say it's fair to say you circled this race on your calendar after you won it last year? And if not, when did you start looking at it again?
 MICHAEL STOUTE: Yes, certainly. We circled it after he won it last year. 

 Q. You planned the campaign last year two Group 1's, singled in the Breeders' Classic, and this year you had the King George in the Breeders' Classic. If you plan to race him next year, will it be the same schedule? It looks like he does a lot better when he's lightly raced. And is the Japan Cup coming up too soon?
 MICHAEL STOUTE: I'm not going to make a decision until we get back home. That will be a tough call. We have to make that call. But he won't be staying in the same training next year. He'll go and stud in Japan. 

 Q. Unlike some of the other European trainers, you don't like to run on the Pro-Ride. You keep your horses on the grass. Why did you do --
 MICHAEL STOUTE: No, we have no prejudice against the Pro-Ride. I just wish I had two or three horses I could have brought for the Pro-Ride races. Yeah, no problem there. 

 Q. Why do you prefer to race than on turf? 
 MICHAEL STOUTE: We haven't had anything suitable for Pr-Ride races, but there's no prejudice against it. 
 ERIC WING: I know you've won three championships in Britain, including this year on over the last four years. It looked like things might have gotten a little tight between you and Dar Re Mi maybe around the 8th pole or 3/16 pole. But you kept him sufficiently away from Dar Re Mi. But were you a little concerned that the room might not open up for you? 
 RYAN MOORE: I knew she was going to get a run, but I didn't want the filly to get a run as well. It was just making sure who was going to run faster. 
 ERIC WING: Sir Michael Stoute, you also trained the fourth place finisher in the Breeders' Cup, Spanish Moon. Can you just comment on his performance today? 
 MICHAEL STOUTE: Well, it was a good performance. He was just behind Dar Re Mi. But this is very, very solid international form. 
 I'd just like to say one thing. It's a remarkable statistic that 4 out of 5 Breeders' Cup winners have come from Ballymacoll Stud. This small stud in County Meath, and it's a wonderful tribute to Peter Reynolds and Lord Weinstock and his son, Simon, who set this whole show up. And we're delighted to keep it going with the help of Laura and Michael Lester. 

 Q. I've seen you win many races on Conduit in Europe. He has one big late run. That would be last year you were dead last in a big field and you ended up winning by five lengths. Today the tactics were a little different. Were you worried at any point the leader might get away from you? 
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, just early on, because I was, as I said, I was in behind two horses which I didn't want to be following. And we had an inside stall, and he just takes a little bit of time to warm into his race. 
 Yeah, it was just at that point the front runner was just getting a bit of a start on us, but was in a good position down the back and was comfortable from then. 
 ERIC WING: Peter Reynolds, Ryan Moore, Lady Weinstock, and Sir Michael Stoute, congratulations to you and to Ballymacoll Stud on back-to-back wins in the Breeders' Cup Turf. Well done. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT