KIA CLASSIC
March 24, 2018
Cindy LaCrosse
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How good does it feel to be near the top of the board?  Been a while.
CINDY LACROSSE: Gosh, it's been a very long time.  Feels really good.  Feel comfortable with just like picking a good target, and then it's nice to actually for the most part hit it there.
So it's been really fun.  You have to kind of be patient on this course with the holes and the greens and stuff.  Each round has been a grind, but feels really good.
Q. This is a fickle game.
CINDY LACROSSE: Yeah.
Q. How did you work your way back to here?
CINDY LACROSSE: I kind of hit rock bottom.  I thought about quitting every day for like a year.  But I would hit good shots sometimes and I knew like I can still do it.
So I kind of needed to redo everything.  I got a new coach, Justin Sheehan in Tampa, and we did just that:  we redid everything pretty much.  I didn't play in tournaments for like five months, and that was almost two years ago now.
So it took a while to rebuild, but it's finally starting to feel normal.
Q. Was rock bottom '16?
CINDY LACROSSE: I lost my card in -- I had it in '14 and lost it, so '15 I played Symetra.  I think towards the end of that I wasn't playing well, and that's kind of what I considered where I kind of broke down.
Beginning of '16 is when I started rebuilding and heading upwards.
Q. Can't help but notice a lot of blanks here.  Are you playing sponsorless?
CINDY LACROSSE: Yeah, pretty much.  No, no.  I have one sponsor.  Good friend if Tampa, his company is on my bag.  But I'm open if anybody wants to join in, join the team.
Most of the time I wear a hat from my club or something like that, but, yeah, I'm available.
Q. Is that extra pressure?
CINDY LACROSSE: No.  You know, I mean, my dad helped me out mostly the last couple years, so there was some pressure there just knowing it's coming from him and not being able to pay my own way.
I think just the last couple months being able to make a few checks and paying for flights and caddies and stuff has made me feel a lot better.  Yeah, it's very comforting having something to not worry.
Q. Yeah.  Can I ask a really dumb question?  I don't know if you're in the field next week.  Are you in the field next week?
CINDY LACROSSE: No, not at the moment.
Q. Could you with a top 80 finish this week?
CINDY LACROSSE: Yes.
Q. Top 80 on the Money List.
CINDY LACROSSE: Yes.
Q. Is that in the back of your mind at all?
CINDY LACROSSE: It is, yeah.  I love the ANA.  I don't think I've played it since it's the ANA.  Not sure.  Yeah, it's definitely in the back of my mind.
We were kind of doing some numbers yesterday to see if I could book stuff yet.  I'm still going to wait just in case.  Yeah, so hopefully tomorrow goes all right and get in.
Q. One more.  The rebuilding of the swing, is there one thing, if you could boil it in a nutshell, how your swing is different now?
CINDY LACROSSE: Yeah, we changed my grip, the first thing he did.  So that was really tough.
Q. Stronger?  Weaker?
CINDY LACROSSE: Stronger.  Other than that it's just more -- it's a little shorter and kind of more one plane.  My tendency was to go long and cross, so we're working on a little shorter and a little flatter.
But it's tough.  It's been a while, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT