U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2011
Cindy LaCrosse
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How did you birdie 16?
 CINDY LACROSSE: Yes, I birdied 16. Probably about a 15-footer, and then hit it to about four feet.

 Q. Did you win the card game?
 CINDY LACROSSE: No, I lost terribly. 

 Q. What game was it?
 CINDY LACROSSE: I don't -- it was something (indiscernible) made up. Allison Walsh won, and I think I came in last. 

 Q. Given what happened at the LPGA Championship, you got yourself in position and then you experienced Sunday in the final pairing for the first time. Did that make you determined? More confident? How did it affect you?
 CINDY LACROSSE: Um, yeah, I mean, I knew I could do it. I mean, I played really well the first three days. Even though Yani was so far ahead going into the final day, I was still, you know, right in there with a lot of other good players. 
 So, I mean, I knew I could shoot good scores on difficult golf courses, so it felt good coming into this week.

 Q. Did that final round tick you off or motivate you?
 CINDY LACROSSE: It was just a really weird day. I mean, I never experienced anything like that before. And then the way I felt about it was different, so it did kind of motivate me, you know, not to have that happen again and be so much better and stronger when I'm in that position again.

 Q. You got home from that and went straight from Tampa to Orlando to work with your coach. 
 CINDY LACROSSE: Yeah.

 Q. Was it to work on your swing or just to talk about... 
 CINDY LACROSSE: Yeah, it was mostly talk, but then he gave me just a few -- I mean, he knew I had this tournament next week, so nothing too crazy. Just a few setup changes and just some time to talk about what happened. 

 Q. What's the most challenging part of the course in this competition?
 CINDY LACROSSE: For me today it was probably the greens, and the speed of like my lag putt. I wasn't sure how the mountain was gonna affect -- whether it would be fast or slow. 
 So that's kinda what I've got to think about tonight and be ready for tomorrow.

 Q. Are you the kind of laid-back person that this kind of situation doesn't affect you very much, or does it really get you out of sync because you like things in order?
 CINDY LACROSSE: I do like things in order. But, I mean, everybody has to deal with it. 
 You know, the girls that teed off early are lucky; but then again, they might not be playing tomorrow or until really late.
 So, you know, it's not good for anybody, really. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT