CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 22, 2014
Julien Brun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JULIEN BRUN:   I think it's better.   It's much more exposure here, so it's good to be here, and I'm learning for my future.  
   
 Q.   How hard was that decision to choose between this or the NCAA Championships?   
JULIEN BRUN:   It was not as hard as you can think because I made it not with the team.   If the team would have made it, it would have been a really hard decision.   I would have played over there for the team because in college you play for your team and play for your teammates, and being able to help them make the top players would have been great.   But as an individual going out there just for myself and for my future career, I can build better here than playing in NCAA.  
   
 Q.   I saw you chatting I think with your family here and there, getting a piece of gum as you're walking.   How much does that help you calm down when you have people like that around you on the course?   
JULIEN BRUN:   Yeah, it did a little bit.   But it's nice for them, really nice for them to be able to watch me here.   Like being here is kind of like a dream come true playing on the PGA TOUR, and my parents worked really hard and gave me the opportunity to play golf like early on, and being there with them is kind of like what you work for, for everything.  
   
 Q.   Where are they currently living?   
JULIEN BRUN:   Back in France.  
   
 Q.   They made the trip over to see you?   
JULIEN BRUN:   Yeah, they did, just lately.   We were not sure we'd play NCAA or here.   We end up being here, so they took a flight and flew here on Tuesday night.  
   
 Q.   What did you learn about the course today?   I know this is a home course for you, but playing it in this setting, what did you learn?   
JULIEN BRUN:   Yeah, well, you really have to be able to strike the ball confidently and being able to be aggressive on the spins because they're pretty close to the bunkers and the greens are really fast.   So it's a real striking course.   It's a really big striking test, basically.   And the striking wasn't quite there today, but maybe it will be tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT