U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2014
Michael McCoy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Mike, can you talk about your performance this week at the Senior Open?  MIKE MCCOY: It was a great, great week.  I played pretty solid all week.  I made a few mistakes and had three doubles the first two days but I made a few birdies and putted pretty well all week and played nicely today. Tripped a couple times coming in otherwise I would have had a chance for a really nice day.  It was a good, solid, solid performance for me.   Q.  All year, you know, you won the Mid Amateur and a lot of good things have happened to you.  Where would this rank to be the low amateur here?  MIKE MCCOY: It's nice.  I haven't played in an Open and, you know, I'm really thankful that I'm in good enough shape to still, you know, play competitively and it's a thrill to be here with all these great players and, you know, there's a lot of good players out there.  When you're low at anything I guess it's pretty good.   Q.  What did you do well this week because going into the Championship everyone talked about driving the ball well to have any chance here?  MIKE MCCOY: I drove it okay.  Wasn't great.  I putted pretty good, you know, I really -- I had good feel on the greens.  I hit a lot of nice little bunker shots this week so my short game was pretty sharp, you know.  I drove it adequate but not up to what my normal standards are.   Q.  You had the chance to play with Hal Sutton yesterday, I believe Duffy Waldorf today.  Tell us about the experience of being with seasoned pros like that.  MIKE MCCOY: It's terrific.  Hal, I've admired for a long time.  He couldn't have been a nicer guy.  He was just terrific.  And, you know, handles himself well. And Duffy and I played in college back in the day.  So, it was nice to kind of reminisce about a few of the good old days.  But, just, you know, classy guys, great players, lot of fun.   Q.  What's your schedule like the rest of the year?  I know the Mid Amateur is in September where you'll defend.  MIKE MCCOY: I'm going to play the Porter Cup and Western Amateur coming up here in the next couple weeks and then the Amateur.  Try to keep the momentum rolling.   Q.  Still busy at 51.  MIKE MCCOY: Very busy.  Very busy.  That's amateur golf.  Got to balance everything.  Thank you  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT