U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2014
Michael McCoy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MIKE MCCOY: I caught a flyer on 15 and it landed in the grandstands and then went on over the green and, you know, had to take it, you know -- take a drop at a tough angle, made double. Then I drove it in the right bunker on 16.  That's a hard tee shot for me.  Other than those two swings, it was a pretty good day.  I played pretty well all day.Q. Was this, your success at the USGA because it's at a high level stage, help you during an event like this?MIKE MCCOY: Well, you know, the setups are pretty similar, you know, they're always challenging.  This isn't much different than an Mid Am or Amateur, any of the other events they run.  I think it helps to play it, to have played in a lot of them and you know what to expect, but, you know, it's a little different with all these great players here. You know, the atmosphere is a little different but, you know, I felt like I could play this golf course.Q. Turning that the other way, how does the Senior Open help you when you've got the U.S. Amateur and the Mid Amateur coming up on your schedule as well?MIKE MCCOY: I think anytime you can, you know, play in a USGA Championship, you know, one, it forces you to spend some time preparing, you know, trying to get your game sharp. So, all of that has been official down the road, I think.  You know, my game is sharp today and I hope that, you know, in a month or so when we play the Amateur in Atlanta it will be real sharp.Q. What's the best part of being sharp, is it overall or is it one part that's really working?MIKE MCCOY: I'm putting better this week which is good and my short game has been good.  So, I've been kind of grinding it out.  Today I hit it better which was nice, I didn't have to scramble quite so hard. You know, you're in a scoring frame of mind when you're here because you know you're not going to hit every green.  You know you're going to have to hit good bunker shots and make good little plays around the green out of the rough. So, you know, sharp short game is sharp and that's kind of kept me above water.Q. The guys that are playing in the Senior Open, do they realize that you're a reigning USGA Champion?MIKE MCCOY: It hasn't come up, honestly.  These guys have all accomplished so much that, you know -- but, anyway, they've been terrific to me, though, just great guys and, you know, very supportive.Q. How about two championships you mentioned, the Amateur and the Mid Am, what do you know about those golf courses, what are you looking forward to on both?MIKE MCCOY: I haven't been to either one of them, you know, so I'm going to try and sneak out there and play them but I suspect they'll be difficult. I'm sure it will be hot and big, long golf course in Atlanta and Pennsylvania, you know, should be just, you know, little more of a reasonable test.  I'm sure it's great.  I've heard it's great.  Maybe not as beastly long.Q. It's between yourself and Jeff Wilson for low amateur.  Tomorrow, is that something you're going to pay attention to during your round?MIKE MCCOY: I don't think so.  Jeff is a good friend.  We just played in Los Angeles about a week ago in a tournament, we were paired the last two days together.  We've played a lot of golf together.  He's a great guy, good friend.  I'm sure we'll both be trying hard.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT