MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2014
Michael McCoy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How was it out there?  
MICHAEL MCCOY:   It was a little bit disappointing, but it was still a nice, nice walk.   I enjoyed it.   My body wasn't responding to what my mind was telling it to do.   
Anyway, it was great.   It was great fun.   
   
 Q.   Soaking it all in, from staying in the Crow's Nest to playing some practice rounds, you did it right.   
MICHAEL MCCOY:   Yeah.   I think that I wouldn't do anything different.   It was a great experience and I enjoyed every second of it.   
   
 Q.   I imagine that you would have to look a long time to find the last time you had two doubles and a triple in a round.   Maybe when you were 15?  
MICHAEL MCCOY:   Yeah.   My hands just weren't ‑‑ there wasn't much feel out there today.   It was fun to watch Larry play so great.   He played beautifully.   So that was fun to watch.   I got a front row seat for a good round.   
   
 Q.   Throw it back to yesterday on the first tee shot.   What was the stomach like, what were the butterflies like?  
MICHAEL MCCOY:   Not too bad.   It's a fairway that I figured that I could get it out there somewhere.   That green's so tough.   The second shot's a little more intimidating.   
   
 Q.   To hear your name called on the tee, I'm sure that was exciting.   
MICHAEL MCCOY:   Oh, it was pretty special.   
   
 Q.   No matter how the round goes, those are shots you're going to remember your entire life.   
MICHAEL MCCOY:   Right.   Yeah, I'll remember all the shots I hit.   
   
 Q.   What was the most challenging aspect of the course for you?   Was it the greens?  
MICHAEL MCCOY:   Yeah, the greens did speed up quite a bit Thursday and Friday.   Chipping was hard.   I just didn't quite have the touch.   But that was the hardest part.   
Driving wasn't too bad.   I felt like I could drive it in play, but the rest of the game was a little challenging.   
   
 Q.   Do you have a favorite hole to play?  
MICHAEL MCCOY:   12 is pretty special.   That one gets your heart rate going.   I thought I pushed it in the water and it was far enough, so that was great.   I was happy to see that one land after what I did on the last hole.  
   
 Q.   Then you birdied 13, so you can remember that one.   
MICHAEL MCCOY:   Yeah, that was fun.   I did hit a good wedge shot there, so that was good.   
   
 Q.   The fact of having Nate with you on the bag for every step of the way, talk about that.   
MICHAEL MCCOY:   That was special.   He's a great kid, I hope this inspires him to work hard, keep at it, being around these great players.   I think that he's seen how they work and that you have to work hard.  
   
 Q.   Do you think weather is going to be a factor out there this afternoon?  
MICHAEL MCCOY:   Feels like it's coming up right now.   So, yeah, it could, for sure.  
   
 Q.   You got the Senior Open you're in, U.S. Amateur, too, right?  
MICHAEL MCCOY:   Yeah.   I'm through the local.   I got to go through sectional for the U.S. Open.   In New York.   
   
 Q.   So you got a real good summer.   A lot of Majors coming up maybe not another Masters but a lot of Majors.   
MICHAEL MCCOY:   That's right.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT