DAVIS CUP - SPAIN vs USA
April 7, 2002
Alberto Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Can you talk about the way he served today. 
 
 ALBERTO MARTIN: Well, it's something you know, no? He serves pretty huge, and it makes him easier to play after the strokes, no, in the baseline or whatever when you know that you have this two or three free points every game, no.  
 
Q. Nerves at the beginning of each set? I mean, you broke in the beginning of each set. Was that nerves, or just couldn't...? 
 
 ALBERTO MARTIN: Yeah, it was a little bit nervous. And also when you are with nerves and you're not in your best surface, it's kind of combination that you don't have the - maybe the two or three strategies that you could apply when you are on your surface. So it was kind of that.  
 
Q. You are not used to playing on grass, but you're one of the Spanish players that goes to Wimbledon. Are you going to hate grass after this, or you go...? 
 
 ALBERTO MARTIN: No, I mean, grass, it's a surface that I don't like really because my game doesn't fit very well, especially with the service, no? But I'm not bad at all, so I've won matches in grass. I will go to Wimbledon and fight there, but probably I am not gonna play the tournaments before.  
 
Q. Do you feel like in the second set that you were kind of maybe getting into it just a little bit? 
 
 ALBERTO MARTIN: Yes. I felt like a little bit the pressure out and I start playing my normal level. And I thought I was into it. But then in the beginning of the third I did a bad game in my service at the beginning, so it start again a little bit. So it's kind of disappointing after you feel inside the match that you start with a break in the third also.  
 
Q. Did you find any difficulties in being a sub and not knowing each time if you were going to play? 
 
 ALBERTO MARTIN: Excuse me?  
 
Q. For substituting for Alex, was it hard not knowing days before or anything? 
 
 ALBERTO MARTIN: No. I'm a professional, and these kind of things I know happen sometimes. And I think I was prepared. I am pretty happy with the way I played the doubles. Not that happy with the way I played today, but I was mentally focused and trying to do my best.  
 
Q. Somebody told me there are no grass courts in Spain. Where do you practice? 
 
 ALBERTO MARTIN: Well, if you want to practice, you got to go some days before to Wimbledon or you have to play the tournaments before. They are pretty boring, so nobody practice normally. Also comes after Roland Garros, so people make some vacation and after they go to Wimbledon sometimes.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT