BARBASOL CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2018
Blayne Barber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. All right, Blayne, 9-under, 63; that's a new career-low in relation to par for you on the TOUR.
BLAYNE BARBER: It is.
Q. If we can get some comments.
BLAYNE BARBER: Today was a really good day.  I played 35 holes; didn't make any bogeys; shot 16-under.  So I guess that's over half of every hole I played for birdie -- or over -- one for every two.
So, yeah, it was a great day.  I just played really solid.  Never really had a lot of the stress.  Course is obviously soft and receptive and I was driving it well so I had ball in hand.
It was just a really good day.
Q. Yeah, dating back it last week now, you've seven consecutive rounds subpar.  You're really on a roll right now.  Just comment on anything that's clicked in your game of late.
BLAYNE BARBER: Man, it's been a long, stressful, difficult year golf-wise.  I wouldn't say anything like particularly has clicked, just yesterday on the range my mindset just kind of shifted.  I was like, you know what?  I'm going to go out there and get done.  Doesn't matter with it looks likes, what it feels like, just tried to walk out there with like an intentional confidence.
I started playing more freely.  I mean, I only played one hole yesterday but it was good, and then kind of carried it over into today.  It's amazing how much hard work and stuff you can put in and see nothing from it, and then like one day and now I'm -- right now I'm tied for the lead.  So, I mean, it's a crazy game.
Q. Yeah, to back up a 65 with a 63, 128 through the last two rounds, you remember a stretch like that that you had of late?
BLAYNE BARBER: That's my best stretch ever, I think.  That's probably the most under par in two rounds I've ever shot in my whole career.
So, yeah, good time to do it.  Just keep moving forward with it.
Q. And lastly, a jam-packed leaderboard.  A lot of players with a chance to win.  What is your mindset?
BLAYNE BARBER: Just got to stay aggressive on this golf course.  There are a lot of opportunities.  It's soft.  Just hope we can keep the weather away and get there and have some fun.
Q. Currently tied for the lead.  I know that could change over the next hour or so.  Comments on another really good day.
BLAYNE BARBER: Yeah, it was a great day.  Played 35 holes, which is great.  I kind of got into a groove was and able to keep it going.  Pretty low-key, stress-free day.  Didn't miss a ton of greens; had a lot of good looks.
Just kind of plodded along.  It was a fantastic day.
Q. So I was asking Sam, seems like you would be getting more tired as you went on, and you guys just seemed to pick it up.
BLAYNE BARBER: Yeah, I guess you can kind of just feed off it.  I'm staying with a nice family right here at the golf course, so I was able to go rest between 18s.  I went and kind of laid down for 45 minutes; watched the British a little bit.
So, yeah, I'm definitely tired.  I think playing well kind of energized me and allowed me to just keep going.
Q. Did you know you were that close to tying the course record that Troy tied earlier?
BLAYNE BARBER: No, I didn't really think about that.  I just kept -- I was just like trying to birdie every hole coming in, just because it's out there if you're making good swings, if you're playing from the fairway.
I know it's going to take a lot to win, so just got to keep making birdies.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT