THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 27, 2016
Blayne Barber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Battled all the way to the finish line including a big par on the last hole?
BLAYNE BARBER: It was nice to make that putt.  I didn't make a great swing on the third shot and nice to make a slider to finish the round.
Q. Must feel like we're in a U.S. Open because every par you get out there is precious.
BLAYNE BARBER: For sure.  It's playing like a major championship golf course.  Par is a good score, which is nice, because I feel a lot of weeks you have to shoot a lot under par, keep pace.  There's a value in hitting the middle of the green, 2-putting and taking your chances when you get them.  It's playing very difficult.
Q. Your thoughts going into the final round?
BLAYNE BARBER: Excited to be in contention.  That's what you play for and I've been feeling really close for awhile now and this week it's kind of started to click a little bit.  Either way tomorrow, it's a great positive moving forward.
Q. Did you see a week like this coming?
BLAYNE BARBER: Yeah, I did.  My game's felt really good for awhile.  I seem to struggle a little bit on the West Coast, different greens and getting back into a rhythm after the off-season.  But my game's felt really good.  It has not quite clicked and I haven't quite seen the results, but just feels really good this week and seen some putts going in, building the confidence.
Q. Do you feel one aspect is working?
BLAYNE BARBER: My ball-striking's been really good this week, which you have to have in a wind like this.  My putting I feel has been steady for a few months now and now it's turning, I'm making birdie putts instead of par putts when I haven't been hitting it as good.  I feel like everything is clicking together now.
Q. Sunday final round and you'll be in the next to last pairing.  What's that mentality going to be like for you?
BLAYNE BARBER: Really the same.  It's a longer morning and a later tee time, but I'm sure a great player, I don't know who I'm playing with.  The mentality is the same.  I'm going to go out there and stay patient like I did today, do my best just to commit to lines.  You get some bad breaks and some funny wind directions and stuff, just with how windy it is, but just control what I can control.
Q. Do you have a history with this golf course?
BLAYNE BARBER: I played a junior event here.  I'm from Florida and played a junior event when I was younger.  I don't remember, I was probably 15 years old so it's been awhile.  I played this tournament last year.
Q. You played here last year?
BLAYNE BARBER: I did.
Q. Did you make the cut?
BLAYNE BARBER: I did.  I didn't play great on the weekends but I played the weekend last year.
Q. This will be your high finish on the PGA.  Will it be special to do it here in Florida?
BLAYNE BARBER: It's always great to play well in front of friends and family in your home state.  We are just looking for good weeks whenever you can get them.  Just keep playing well and get some momentum going from the Florida Swing.
Q. Only seven guys have two rounds under par this week.  That's a pretty good accomplishment.  What do you make of that?
BLAYNE BARBER: Yeah, it's just -- that equates to being high on the leaderboard I guess.  But just really, I've stayed patient and really taken my chances when I've got them.  I've made some mistakes as well and you're going to make them out there.  You're just going to let them t come when it happens.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT