NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 22, 2015
Blayne Barber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Here with Blayne Barber, low round of the week, and I asked you, what course were you playing today, because 6‑under is incredible, bogey‑free on a Sunday in these tough conditions.   What were you teeing out there that not many other people have so far. 
BLAYNE BARBER:   I just tried to stay patient and just play as solidly as I could.   I didn't think 6‑under was out there, but just started hitting some shots and gave myself some looks, and I was able to birdie three of the first four, which let me kind of settle in and play the rest of the day.   I just got off to a good start. 

Q.   Can you give us an idea of the conditions compared to the first three rounds? 
BLAYNE BARBER:   The wind definitely a little stronger today and it's swirling just a little bit.   It's also cool, so the ball may not be going quite as far but then you get one downwind‑‑ so it's tricky. 
You're just playing for spots on the greens and giving yourself a look because you're not going to hit it close to a lot of the pins, as firm as these greens are. 

Q.   Is it your game that really fits in with this course, or is it your mentality and your patience and attitude? 
BLAYNE BARBER:   Maybe a little bit of both, but if I'm being honest, I was really frustrated and impatient the first three days.   It got the best of me for sure.   It's just a tough golf course.   It's a course that par matters.   And the last few weeks we've been playing birdie‑fests, just trying to keep making birdies and move up; it gets draining if you're not making birdies. 
So to play a week where par is a good score and you throw in a birdie, you're going to move up a few spots on the leaderboard, that's fun for me.   I like playing courses like that. 

Q.   Give you a lot of confidence heading into the Florida Swing?
BLAYNE BARBER:   It does.   I was at a loss yesterday afternoon.   I was putting it well, hitting it terrible, and today a little something clicked.   So I'm excited.   I grew up in Florida, so I love Florida golf courses and I'm excited to get down there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT