PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 9, 2013
Blayne Barber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Blayne Barber, 66 in the third round of the Puerto Rico Open gets you in contention, close to the guys leading.   First of all, talk to me about the closing stretch, two birdies over the last four holes.   Great finish.
BLAYNE BARBER:   Thank you.   Yeah, it was playing pretty tough out there today.   The wind was a little bit stronger than it has been, and the meat of this golf course I would say is probably 11 through 14 and then 15 through 18 are all good birdie opportunities, so I tried to just stay patient as best as I could and was able to do that and finished with three birdies.   So it was a good finish for sure.

Q.   Was there something special, a shot in particular there?
BLAYNE BARBER:   Not really.   I just played steady golf.   I had a couple good up‑and‑downs on 15 and 17, drove it in the greenside bunker on 17 and just got up‑and‑down, and 18 was a good wedge shot, so it was nice to finish with a birdie, but overall it was just a good steady round of golf.

Q.   You are currently two, three shots off the lead depending on how these guys finish.   But you're in very good shape with one round to go.   Your expectations for tomorrow's final round?
BLAYNE BARBER:   You know, I'm just going to go out there and play as good as I can, and if it results in a great finish, that's awesome.   I just want to focus on what I can control and just keep playing the kind of golf I have been playing and I know the results will take care of themselves.

Q.   Going back to the conditions, talking about the wind, how did it play this afternoon?
BLAYNE BARBER:   Yeah.   It's been pretty windy the first two days, but I think it was a little bit more steady today, and it just really affected 11, 12, 13, 14, those holes that are kind of more exposed right in there.   So it was definitely a little stronger than it has been and you really had to control your trajectory and hit solid shots. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT