THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2017
Blayne Barber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Start off on 2; what did you have in?
BLAYNE BARBER: I had 232 pin.  My game plan was just to lay up on the par-5s today, and then I got there, it was just a perfect number, and hit a really quality shot, and then just happened to make a 40-footer.
Q. What was the club in?
BLAYNE BARBER: I hit a hybrid.  It was just the perfect number for a hybrid.
Q. What's the loft on that?
BLAYNE BARBER: 21 degrees.
Q. Like a 3-iron?
BLAYNE BARBER: Yeah, it's like a 3-iron, that's correct.
Q. 15, what kind of lie did you have in that bunker?
BLAYNE BARBER: It was just -- yeah, I mean, my short game was a little off today.  It was just sitting kind of down in a rake mark, which happens, and there's not much margin for error on that shot.  It was a bad miss, and then ended up in the middle of the bunker but it was kind of sitting down so it came out with no spin.  The greens are really fast, and just took off.
Q. Were you trying to go sideways on that?
BLAYNE BARBER: No, I was trying to go a little to the right of it, it just squirted down, and then the next shot is tough from there.  Hit a good putt for bogey, and it didn't go in.
Q. Did you allow yourself to look at that leaderboard at all when your name was on top of it?
BLAYNE BARBER: Yeah, I saw -- I looked up there a couple times throughout the back nine, I saw I was tied for the lead.  If you would have told me 2-under at the beginning of the day, I probably would have taken it, so glad to get an under par round out of the way to start the week and get some momentum going.
Q. Is that a cool deal for everybody else on the outside of the ropes that's following you, or is that pretty cool still for you to be on the top of this tournament, at least for a moment?
BLAYNE BARBER: Yeah, absolutely.  I would be lying if I didn't say it was special.  You want to be there at the end of Sunday, but it was cool to get into contention early, and good start to the week.
Q. Looked like you got a good look off of Zach's putt on 18.
BLAYNE BARBER: I did.
Q. It didn't look like it was going to bend that much to the right.
BLAYNE BARBER: Yeah, we had the same exact look for eagle on 16, too, and he hits his putts really firm and I'm more of a die putter, so that last hole I was trying to blade it in there off the left, and it didn't quite turn.  It was a double breaker, it was left and then right.  Just barely missed it.
Q. Are the bogeys that happen for everybody out there --
BLAYNE BARBER: Yeah.
Q. Are you pretty good at having a short memory?
BLAYNE BARBER: No, I'm terrible at it.  That's probably my greatest weakness.  But I did a decent job of it today, something I'm working on.  You're going to make bogeys -- when you're hitting it really well, it's hard to accept that sometimes, but this is a major type test of golf, and you're going to make mistakes, and when you do, sometimes they're amplified.
Q. Are you getting a little bit better about that?
BLAYNE BARBER: Yeah, for sure.  I handled it well today.  Tomorrow is a new day, and just keep doing it.
Q. How do you describe the greens?
BLAYNE BARBER: They're very firm and fast.  They're the perfect firmness to where good shots are rewarded, but then if you mis-hit it, it's kind of hard to hold the different sections of the green.  There's a lot of slope.  It's a great advantage to be underneath the hole, so you're trying to work it around, and you've got to hit quality shots to do that.
Q. You played 12 obviously pretty well with a birdie.  Will that lead to you playing 12 that way the rest of the time?
BLAYNE BARBER: Yeah, my game plan is to just kind of play that hole conservatively.  It's a perfect risk-reward hole.  There's a lot of risk, and you can play it down the right, too, with a mid to long iron and a wedge.  My game plan is to just -- that's how I want to play it, but it's kind of situational.  If you get there and you're playing well and you're kind of hot, maybe go for it, but the situation would have to be perfect.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT