THE BARCLAYS
August 28, 2016
Blayne Barber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You're projected 101 right now, but what do you take away from this week?
BLAYNE BARBER: I mean, I just played poorly the last two days.  Played really well the first 36, and just a tough golf course and I was a little off.  Didn't drive it well the last few days, and if you're not driving well, you can't really give yourself chances, looks at birdie.  I played well.  It was just bad today.  That's all it is, just bad golf.
Q. Obviously back on TOUR next year, so you keep your card.  That's a positive.
BLAYNE BARBER: That was goal No. 1.  I'm trying to keep that in perspective.  I really had my back against the wall the last seven or eight events of the year.  To finish inside the Top-125 and keep my card is big.  It gives me something to build on.  If I made it to THE TOUR Championship, first year in the Playoffs, or BMW, whatever, it would kind of set the bar pretty high.  So I have a lot to work on, and I'm going to have a few weeks to do that, so that's good.
Q. Will you keep an eye on the standings or just go home and relax?
BLAYNE BARBER: I was watching coming in.  I knew that bogey on 15 dropped me outside.  I was kind of watching the last four holes to see.  I didn't feel any pressure today.  I was just playing poorly.  I don't think the 75 was a result of any sort of added pressure.  I was playing good coming into this weekend.  So it is what it is, hard golf course.  I didn't have it today, and that's what you get.
Q. How much fun is it playing in the FedExCup?
BLAYNE BARBER: It's great.  Barclays does a great job with this event.  It's a different feel kind of once you get into the Playoffs.  It's just a bigger feel; you have that volatility with the quadruple points and all the big name guys are here.  It's a great field and it was a blast.  I'm glad to have been playing this year.
Q. After 15, did you push to get one on the last three?
BLAYNE BARBER: Yeah, I hit a laser at 16, hit it a little short, kind of in-between clubs.  Hit one less club on 17 to try to get it close and I just nuked a 7-iron.  It flew like 196.  So I hit a laser there.
Then a good drive on 18 that ended up two inches in the first cut, which is kind of hard to control the distance.  I hit a perfect shot there.  So I hit three shots right at the pin the last three holes, and I mean, this golf course, there's no margin for error.  You can't go out there and expect to make a lot of birdies, so if you get behind, you kind of just feel like you're dragging.  Just how it is.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT