MAUI JIM MAUI INVITATIONAL
November 21, 2016
Kevin Ollie
Rodney Purvis
Jalen Adams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Oklahoma State - 98, UConn - 90   
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by coach Ollie, Jalen Adams and Rodney Purvis.   
COACH OLLIE: Oklahoma State, giving them credit, played very, very hard. They shot the ball very well from the 3-point line.  We were down 19 with nine minutes to go, and I just love my kids' effort.  They tried to get back in the game.  I think we cut it to four, but it was just a little bit too late.  And we just have to start off a little stronger and we've got to take care of the ball a little bit more.   
But I love the fight in our guys.  We got some guys injured.  We're young, but we're not making excuses.  We don't accept losing, but we're just going to keep getting better and better.  And hopefully these guys will be my leaders, and I know they will.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the players.   
 Q.  Jalen, how do you explain your first half tonight with what you did in the second half?  First half, turnovers; second half, you played really well.  How do you explain that?  
JALEN ADAMS: I think the first half I penetrated off the pressure and I just didn't control my poise and I didn't just play basketball.  I was looking too passive and telegraphing all my passes.   
In the second half my teammates kept encouraging me and I finally got my confidence back, and I just didn't want to lose the game.  I think just being more aggressive and passing off of that helps me more and that's how I should start playing.   
 Q.  Jalen and Rodney, if you could both speak to this.  Terry, when he went out, he kind of hopped, limped over into the dugout to give you guys some encouragement, sort of what he said, and what effect that had on you guys, because you played better after that?  
RODNEY PURVIS: It was just us wanting to step up for our teammate who went down.  We're not sure of whatever the injury may be, but you know the fact of him hopping off the court and coming in and giving us those encouraging words was really helpful.  And I think we were able to build off of that.   
 Q.  Rodney or Jalen, what else can you build off what you guys did in basically the last ten minutes or so tonight, what you did better offensively and defensively, all around?  Can you build off of that?  
RODNEY PURVIS: Yeah, we definitely can build off of it.  Our main thing is we just got to get off to a good start and take care of the basketball.  And I feel like we can build off those things, watch some film and get better.   
And just stay with each other no matter what.  I know we're 1-3 right now, but I feel it's just a learning process for us.  We've got a lot of young guys and a few guys went down.  So we've just got to roll with the punches and just continue to stay with each other and keep getting better.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Coach.   
 Q.  Can you update us on Terry, what you know at this point?  
COACH OLLIE: No, I can't.  His knee is swelled up pretty well.  We're going to get back and I'll consult with the doctors and I'll know a little bit more later on tonight when we get to the hotel.  So not really.  I know it's a knee injury.  But we don't know the significance of it yet.   
 Q.  You kind of addressed some of this already.  But what can you take from the comeback you made over the last ten minutes or so?  And what did you do better overall over those last ten minutes supposed to the first 30 or so?  
COACH OLLIE: We just took care of the basketball.  I mean, it's easy.  And then we made some shots.  We moved the basketball.  Guys stepped up.  And I was happy to see Juwan get out there and make a shot, and Vance hit some threes.  And we just gotta be poised in the first half.  I think our offense got sped up and we were just making unforced passes that we needed to just take control of the game a little bit better.  And I think Jalen learned from this.   
I know he had 10 turnovers, but I think nine of them was in the first half.  And I think he just became way more aggressive shooting the ball.  He's such a dynamic player.  If he can get to the rim and converge, he can make passes off that.  So I thought he started doing that.   
We still gotta get our free throw situation under control.  Being 69 percent is just not acceptable.  And giving that many points up is not acceptable.  And we've got to get back to the drawing board and do a better job defensively and get better from this.   
It's just an unfortunate thing.  But it's part of a process.  And I'm going to stay with this process and I'm going to stay with these young guys and we're going to be better.  And these young guys are going to win a lot of games for us.   
And we're going to continue to believe in that locker room.  And we've seen some good things today.  And we're going to keep building on it, but we gotta play better defense.  We gotta rebound the basketball better.  And we gotta get out to faster starts.   
And I think we're putting ourselves behind the eight ball sometimes getting down by 19 or 20.   
THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Coach.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT