PURE SILK BAHAMAS LPGA CLASSIC
February 7, 2015
Brooke Pancake
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about this morning.   
BROOKE PANCAKE:   I started on 8, so we had 10 and a half holes.   
   
 Q.   We obviously have some west wind.   
BROOKE PANCAKE:   Yes, the ocean holes are still really breezy.   I will say that wind is definitely a factor.   
   
 Q.   What worked well in this round compared to the other because you're playing very solid.   
BROOKE PANCAKE:   Yeah, I happily am managing the wind pretty well for the most part, giving myself some chances.   I'm putting well.   When I give myself a birdie look, I will be definitely disappointed if it doesn't go in right now.  
   
 Q.   So putting has just been on point?  
BROOKE PANCAKE:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   And you said you changed putters?  
BROOKE PANCAKE:   I am, I'm using a Yes putter.  
   
 Q.   When did you put that in the bag?  
BROOKE PANCAKE:   I switched over in the winter, this last winter pretty much, and then Ocala was the first event with it and this event, so I'm thinking it's going to stay for a while.   
   
 Q.   What made you change at that point?   You just wanted something different?  
BROOKE PANCAKE:   I was looking over like the past couple years, I gave myself a lot of‑‑ I had a lot of good rounds I put together, I just didn't really make anything.   Most players will say they had this one round where they just knew they were going to make everything, and I hadn't had that in a while, and I just felt I had a putter that was good for me, but I didn't have those great days.   I just wanted to find the one that fit me the best, and that's kind of how I approached it.   I wasn't going to change anything, I was just (inaudible).  
   
 Q.   Talk about being in this position.   It obviously has to feel pretty good.   
BROOKE PANCAKE:   It does feel good, finally.  
   
 Q.   What's the plan for the break, obviously late tee times, but what's on the docket?  
BROOKE PANCAKE:   Eat a lot of good food and just kind of‑‑ my husband is here so we're just going to have some fun.   Depending on what time it is I might go back and then have some fun and then come back.   I'm not going to get too wrapped up.  
   
 Q.   Stay busy?  
BROOKE PANCAKE:   Right, yeah, exactly.  
   
 Q.   Obviously the putter you want to keep the same, but anything‑‑  
BROOKE PANCAKE:   No, game plan is going to be the same, just keep enjoying myself out there.   I'm just kind of‑‑ I'm staying really patient.   I know that's kind of corny to say you're staying in one shot at a time, but in the wind, yes.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT