KIA CLASSIC
March 27, 2014
Brooke Pancake
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A very solid round for you.
BROOKE PANCAKE:   Yes.

Q.   You're coming off a missed cut.   Any changes you made from last week coming into this one?
BROOKE PANCAKE:   No.   I actually gained a lot of confidence in my game, starting from last year.   I've seen a lot of positive things come from my work with my coach and everything, and last week I missed the cut by one, but I really had some tough breaks on the last few holes, and I guess everyone around me and myself are saying for every tough break, good things are coming, so I guess that's the positive attitude I have to have.
I know that I was hitting it really well, and I felt great coming to this tournament because this golf course benefits someone that's striking the ball really well.   You can't really get away with a lot of things, whereas last week you could get away with a couple of miss‑hit shots.   It just came down to the putts. 

Q.   So the harder it is, you're comfortable with that?
BROOKE PANCAKE:   Yes.

Q.   How about today, you got to three; right?
BROOKE PANCAKE:   4.   I got up to 4.   I felt really great.   I gave myself a lot of looks at it, and I had some great feel in my putting.   The greens out here are extremely tough and made some couple of bogeys coming in, but the golf course is playing a lot more difficult now when the wind's picking up.

Q.   Did you bogey 18?
BROOKE PANCAKE:   I just did bogey 18.   So I finished 2.

Q.   Yeah.
BROOKE PANCAKE:   That's a really tough finishing hole.

Q.   I was going to ask you about that.   To me it strikes me as maybe one of the toughest out here on tour.   Is it?
BROOKE PANCAKE:   For sure.   I would say so, especially with the winds kind of into and cross off the tee, you get it down there and it's definitely left to right, and your second shot, so it's injure visually a hard one to kind of grasp.

Q.   Who is your new caddie?
BROOKE PANCAKE:   Trip Harris. 

Q.   How long has he been on the bag?
BROOKE PANCAKE:   This year.

Q.   Just this year?
BROOKE PANCAKE:   Yes.

Q.   Started at Bahamas?
BROOKE PANCAKE:   I wasn't in the Bahamas.   I was on my honeymoon.   He started last week in Phoenix.

Q.   Very good.   How did you guys get‑‑
BROOKE PANCAKE:   Great.   He's a swing coach and he's caddied before, so he's phenomenal.   I'm very lucky.

Q.   Friends or did somebody recommend?
BROOKE PANCAKE:   He is Derek's best friend.   My husband's best friend.   I pretty much begged him to come out here.   I was like, please (laughs).

Q.   Honeymoon, newlywed, how is the newlywed life treating you?
BROOKE PANCAKE:   It's amazing.   It really is.   It truly is amazing.   He is playing himself and he's doing extremely well.   He's played some of the mini tour events, E golf, and he hasn't really finished out of the Top 5 in the last three tournaments, so he's being a stud.

Q.   What's his last name?
BROOKE PANCAKE:   Rende, R‑E‑N‑D‑E.   D‑E‑R‑E‑K.

Q.   We were joking about in the media center about the whole last name thing.   Would you ever consider changing it?
BROOKE PANCAKE:   Derek and I actually have a, I guess it's like a promise, contract between us, whoever makes our first win, so he has to win on Web.com or PGA, we take the other person's name.

Q.   Oh, really?   He's going to take your name?
BROOKE PANCAKE:   If I make an LPGA win before he takes a win, he's going to take Pancake.   Because he gets joked around that he, like people were going when we got married people were going to get him a staff flag that said Derek Pancake and stuff like that.   I'm definitely like the old‑fashioned person, I want to take my husband's name and everything, but I guess since I've already gotten kind of known out here, and a lot of girls out here take their husband's name but then they still go by whatever name they had out here.   But it seems so difficult, because like with flights and things, like you get in an Invitational and you have to make sure that they go with‑‑ and you have to turn your passport in.   Someone even said like your frequent flier miles you have to switch over, too.   So it seems so difficult.   I know. 

Q.   Stuff like that, that's a lot.
BROOKE PANCAKE:   I know.   It's more than I even thought about.

Q.   Thought it would be a piece of paper and you'd be done, but you're not?
BROOKE PANCAKE:   Yes.

Q.   All right.   Cool.   Anything else going into the rest of the week?   Anything you're concentrating on hopefully to take over?
BROOKE PANCAKE:   Really been working on my putting and timing on my putting.   So that's been kind of the next step.   This is a good test here. 

Q.   Is it because the greens are so big or the undulation?
BROOKE PANCAKE:   There's major undulations, and the tricky part is like there's only so many places you can put the pins and a lot of positions, like even on this hole, you know, the ideal spot would be like just right of the pin, but the other side of the hole it kind of falls away from you, so there's a lot of putts where if you just putt them just by the hole they kind of trickle away and stuff like that.   So they are some tricky slopes.

Q.   What did you do on‑‑
BROOKE PANCAKE:   I hit it in the fairway bunker and then just pitched out and hit it on to the green and then two‑putted. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT