NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v CANADIENS
May 18, 2014
Brad Richards
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You guys have been really gracious talking about a difficult time for Marty and for the team.   How is everybody doing today? 
BRAD RICHARDS:   Oh, you know, it was another tough day.   We all know how funerals are, and it's tough to really talk about.   It gets to the point where you have to let the family deal with that, and not always be out in the public with it, and they did a good job of that.   They're all together, and putting her to rest, and that's part of the process.

Q.   Do you think this way Marty can get a little closure in a very difficult time? 
BRAD RICHARDS:   Yeah, I think it's going to help just to get his mind off two things:   Trying to play and then trying to make sure he's doing all the right things for his family and his dad and do what his mom would want. 
So I think we all know this will probably hit him when hockey is over and he has time to reflect.   But he's done an unbelievable job keeping everything together and helping his sister and his dad get through this.   You wouldn't expect anything else.

Q.   How do you sort of reconcile the fact that this is obviously a very emotional thing, but also not wanting to trivialize that.   He lost his mom, and that doesn't change whether you win a hockey game or not. 
BRAD RICHARDS:   Yeah, it doesn't.   I think the big thing is it was the timing of it probably leads to a great story, and we want it to be a great story.   We're not trying to hide that.   At the same time, we've played good hockey all year.   I think it's the biggest thing.   It made Marty get to know the guys and the group and the organization a lot quicker than he would have if that didn't happen, you know, when you're coming to a new team.   So he felt like the organization was there to support him.   We felt how passionate he was for the group and the organization. 
So I think it made us get closer to him, and he really feels like he's a Ranger now with what he went through and everybody behind him.

Q.   (Indiscernible), do you guys pay attention to that? 
BRAD RICHARDS:   I don't know the exact score.   It was 2‑0, maybe.   I've never seen a hockey player that can score an important goal on a breakaway and would rather run into a goalie or figure out a way to hit a goalie.   I mean, he's trying to score a goal.   If you've watched him, he's a pretty fast, big player.   When he gets going, it's hard to stop sometimes. 
It's a split‑second thing that happened.   No one's trying to‑‑ we're trying to score goals and get ahead 3‑0, not manufacture something like that.   They can say that.   They can think that.   That's their right, but we know how Chris plays, and it's a fast game out there, a lot of things can happen.

Q.   Do you expect all the games to be ending in that type of a lopsided score? 
BRAD RICHARDS:   No, obviously not.   I think everybody has talked about it.   You've seen it all through the years in hockey.   Sometimes after a series, sometimes an emotional letdown or reset, and we were fortunate enough that we had a couple days to kind of reset.   They flew home and had pretty much half a day to get ready. 
So that can happen, and that's part of the scheduling.   We might have gotten lucky there getting those two days off where we can regroup.   We're going to see a whole different team tomorrow night, and we're expecting a big push from them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT