NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLAMES v LIGHTNING
June 5, 2004
Dave Andreychuk
Brad Richards
Martin St. Louis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Martin, on the winning goal, obviously you saw the rebound coming to you; what came to your mind as you were ready to shoot that up? 
 MARTIN ST. LOUIS:  I was just trying to put it on net.  At that point in time it's not the pretty goal that's going to win; it's just trying to put as much puck on that night.  I saw tiles at the blue line shooting the puck so I knew Rich was there trying to chip it.  I was waiting to see if the rebound would come.  It wasn't a good angle shoot but I just thought throw it on net, you never know. 
 Q.  Is there a blueprint you can take from winning a Game 7 to win two in a row, anything from that game you can take, Dave, as far as a plan, X and O format? 
 DAVE ANDREYCHUK:  I think now that the majority of our guys have gone through a Game 7, they know what to experience.  They know the feeling going into that game, especially at home.  So obviously we're going to use that.  We played a very good Game 7 our last one, and obviously we have to come up with another one. 
 Q.  Dave, Tim Taylor talked about the message he got from Ray Bourque to pass along to you guys.  What did you take from that? 
 DAVE ANDREYCHUK:  Well, obviously I played with Ray and I have a lot of respect for him.  I learned a lot from him in the short time that we were together about what it is to be a professional and you know, obviously you make friends over your career and here's a guy that you know, is willing to give us a call and talk about you know, the situation that he was in, so I know for me it meant a lot because I know him personally and I am sure a lot of guys on our team know him as a great defenseman in the League.  For him to want to participate in what we're doing I can just see him on the other end of the line.  He's still being a leader. 
 Q.  Brad, can you take us through both of those goals you scored in the second period, especially the second one. 
 BRAD RICHARDS:  Well, first one, Marty threw it down to me.  It was we had a lot of possession so it was kind of a jammy play.  I was just firing at the net.  Dave was in front.  I was trying to maybe just throw it there and let him whack at it.  I think it went off his arm and in. 
 Second one, Dave and Vinny did a good job on the boards, kept it in, and I am not sure who it was tried to clear it or pass it, and I just got my stick on it and tried to shoot it right away and that was it. 
 Q.  Dingman line did a great job of grinding it out second time in a row.  What has that done for the team? 
 DAVE ANDREYCHUK:  The energy that they have brought into that to our lineup, our fourth line, they throw them out and good puck possession down low, they got good speed.  Obviously they have done a great job for us.  They really added some momentum in games given us some momentum.  It's carried on through the rest of our lines. 
 Q.  Marty, Tort said before this game he wanted his big players to step up.  How did that motivate you? 
 MARTIN ST. LOUIS:  He said that after every loss.  At this time of the year that's the way it's got to be.  We expect that.  He doesn't need to say that.  We all know.  But it's true we are getting the most minutes.  We have to make a difference.  We can't -- we have to be accountable for the minutes we play offensively and defensively, and tonight our power play gave us a chance to win.  We got two big goals, obviously Dingman line played really well.  We need that.  But it comes down to your best player getting it done offensively and I thought we did that tonight. 
 Q.  Dave, you have been through a lot of situations in your career.  I remember a few of them in Toronto.  Given the circumstance have you ever been through an emotional rollercoaster like this? 
 DAVE ANDREYCHUK:  I have been trying to stay composed through the whole thing.  Deep down inside there's a lot of emotion.  You know, everybody associated with me, there's a lot of emotion what is going on and the wins and the losses and the overtimes.  But I think that's something that I have dreamed about.  I have dreamed about being in this situation.  So you know, I don't think I could have asked for anything more.  I have a chance to win one more game to win the Stanley Cup.  Seems like it's a long time ago when I started and it's taken a while to get here but I finally have my chance. 
 Q.  Martin, being from Quebec does Ray Bourque's message have special impact for you; can you tell us what the crux was of what he said? 
 MARTIN ST. LOUIS:  Well, you know, I grew up watching Ray Bourque.  Playing the Canadiens quite a bit, I was really happy when he won his Cup and I didn't really remember that they were down 3-2 going to Jersey.  And for him to take the time out of his life and really care about what we're going through, it really reached us, I think.  It meant a lot.  They have done it so why couldn't we.  That's the kind of way I felt.  It was nice to hear it from a Hall-of-Famer and a guy that has been through it. 
 Q.  Your coach talked about how in facing a chance to win that he thought nerves might get them, he thought the whole anticipation thing might overcome them.  Did you see some evidence of that tonight and how do you expect now that your team will handle it with some of the same expectations? 
 BRAD RICHARDS:  I think he was just trying to say that when you have a chance to win the Cup at home you look ahead sometimes.  Human beings look ahead and Game 5 we did that.  I think that's all he meant.  Hopefully we learned from our mistake and we know they are going to come in and feel the same way we did tonight.  They are going to say the Cup is in our building.  Everybody is there to watch us.  We're at home in Game 7.  But I think we learned a lesson in Game 5.  We looked at what was going to happen if we win that and we could maybe clinch in Calgary and worrying about who was going to get to Calgary and all that stuff and we forgot about playing the game.  We're just going to go to the hotel tomorrow, stay together and shut out the outside world and just worry about hockey. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT