NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: RANGERS v KINGS
June 12, 2014
Brad Richards
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   When AV comes to you before the game yesterday and talks about the new lines, did you have an immediate reaction?   He talked about you'll always do what's right for the team.   
BRAD RICHARDS:   Go try to win a game really.   If you're down 3‑0, you know, there's something that has to change sometimes.   Just talk to the new linemates, go play.   
   
 Q.   We've talked a lot about your leadership, its importance throughout this run.   Is that any more difficult to lead if your ice time is diminished?  
BRAD RICHARDS:   No.   I actually played more five‑on‑five last night than I did the night before.   You guys will read into it because I was on a different line.  
I haven't been where I need to be this series, so my ice time has been lower.   We're trying to win games, to get to a chance to win a Cup, so...   
   
 Q.   Put me in your skates for a moment and describe, what is the emotional, physical investment you make to play this much hockey, get this close, how that plays into not wanting it to go for naught?  
BRAD RICHARDS:   The day after being down 3‑0 is a tough day.   When you think about it, collect your thoughts, go through everything we've gone through this year, you know, it started a long time ago.   It's nice to be given another chance.   That's all we wanted to do last night.   It wasn't the prettiest game, but we're still here today.   
If you go this long, you just keep fighting somehow, some way.   You figure it out as a group to just fight another day.   That's what we're trying to do.   
   
 Q.   In any self‑analysis you've done of your play in this series, have you figured out reasons why you're not where you want to be in this series?  
BRAD RICHARDS:   Game2 was rough.   I don't know what happened.   I just couldn't get out of my own way.   
Besides that, if I score a goal, you know, contribute or we win, you probably have a whole different feeling.   When you get down 3‑0, you fight it a bit.   That's the way it goes.   
But Game2 I had a chance to maybe bury a third that probably changes the whole mentality of the team and you, coming back 1‑1.   But it didn't.   If other guys are figuring out a way to get it done, right now it's about that.   
   
 Q.   Brad, when AV comes to you with a decision like that to switch lines, were you surprised you stayed on the power play?   If one play contributes to a goal, is it able to flip things quickly?  
BRAD RICHARDS:   Yeah, I mean, it flips very quickly, for sure.   Like I said, if you can help out, score a goal, a big play...   
Right now it might be some other simple play you have to get done while you're out there.   That's it.   Had some good looks last couple games, the power play.   Just for some reason, not going in.   
So we just keep trying to do that.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Henrik.   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT