WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2011
Liam Broady
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 L. BROADY/R. Kern
  7-6, 4-6, 13-11 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Court No. 18, seemed like the third set was going to end up like Mahut and Isner.   
 LIAM BROADY: At one point I was actually thinking that. Yeah, I got broken at 5-3 when I was serving for the match. He played quite well.   
 After that, I kind of forgot the score and tried to focus on each game individually.   
  
  Q. Bit of street fighting in that final set, wasn't there, because you wouldn't give in?   
 LIAM BROADY: Yeah, I mean, I think he probably raised his level a bit. Obviously with his serve, it's always going to be hard to break him in one of those sets.   
 At the end I think he just played one or two sloppy points and I managed to close it out.  
  
  Q. What was the atmosphere like all the way through?  
 LIAM BROADY: No, it's like the last two days, only this time it was better. It was fantastic. A lot of people watching, great support, and hopefully I'll be able to get it again tomorrow.  
  
  Q. A bit like Old Trafford, wasn't it?  
 LIAM BROADY: Obviously not quite as big, but I'm a Manchester City fan, so I wouldn't know.   
  
  Q. What do you know about Jason Kubler?  
 LIAM BROADY: I know he played Oli Golding here last year, and I think Oli beat him 7-5 in the third set. Oli lost to him this year, and obviously he's a great player. I think he stopped playing juniors a bit now for the seniors.   
 It will be a good game.  
  
  Q. How does it compare to seeing Manchester City maybe winning a trophy?  
 LIAM BROADY: I mean, obviously I'd call myself a follower, not a supporter, because obviously I'm not home that much. I don't know all the fixtures that are going on like the maniacs a little bit.   
 Obviously, I absolutely loved it when won the FA Cup. I think this is probably better and probably got a bit more excited when I won today.   
  
  Q. In view of your long match, I assume you've scratched from the doubles, have you?   
 LIAM BROADY: No, I'm going on at 5:00, I think, so 25 minutes.  
  
  Q. How did you keep yourself sort of calm as the games ticked by in the third set, especially after not serving out?  
 LIAM BROADY: Well, I was in that situation once this year already. I played Wimbledon men's qualifying, and I won that one 12-10 in the third. I almost knew the mindset that I needed, and managed focus point by point.   
 And with the support of the crowd and the guys who were there watching me, made it a bit easier.  
  
  Q. What do you think you need to improve for the semis?  
 LIAM BROADY: I mean, every round you've got to improve, I think. Yeah, hopefully I'll be able to bring out an even better game than today. It should be a good match.  
  
  Q. Obviously having won the boys' doubles title last year, do you feel differently this year?   
 LIAM BROADY: I've said a few times I feel a lot more at home this year than I usually do. But obviously I've only been here two years before this. I feel a lot more at home, more comfortable, a lot more confident.   
  
  Q. I think Golding was in the crowd watching you. Is he going to give you some tips on your next opponent if he went out to him?  
 LIAM BROADY: Yeah, I'm hoping so. Either him or his coach. I'll be finding him after.  
  
  Q. Did your dad make it today?  
 LIAM BROADY: No. But I call from him after the match. He said he was watching the last set in Spain somewhere. He always manages to watch somewhere.  
  
  Q. Will he manage to be back for tomorrow?  
 LIAM BROADY: I think he's coming back tonight, so e might be back in time.   
  
  Q. Did you watch any more Harry Potter?  
 LIAM BROADY: No, it was actually Clash of the Titans last night actually.  
  
  Q. It was Clash of the Titans Part II today, huh?   
 LIAM BROADY: Yeah, you could say that. True. In the end I managed to come out on top.  
  
  Q. Are you going to watch Murray's match against Nadal tomorrow?  
 LIAM BROADY: I don't know what time he's playing. If I'm not on at the same time, for sure I'll watch it.  
  
  Q. Do you have an idea of how it's going to go?  
 LIAM BROADY: I don't have a clue, to be honest. Obviously, Murray is playing as well as he's ever played. Rafa is No. 1 in the world for a reason. It will be an interesting game.  
  
  Q. Andy could have a hit with Nadal in the morning.   
 LIAM BROADY: Well, I'm sure Andy will probably be wanting to hit more than Rafa. We'll see how it goes, because obviously if it doesn't match up with my match times then I won't be able to do it.  
  
  Q. How close do you think you are to becoming good enough to play with these guys?  
 LIAM BROADY: Uhm, well, you know, last few years at Wimbledon, I've practiced with a few of the top guys. Yeah, I still think they're probably a few levels above me. I'm learning quickly. Hopefully I'll progress even quicker.  
  
  Q. Do you feel you're continuing to make points to the LTA?  
 LIAM BROADY: Well, I don't really think of it like that, to be honest. I just think of it as my own game and just concentrate on the points and obviously the feeling of winning matches and winning matches at big tournaments.   
  
  Q. What were your expectations coming into this week for the singles? Did you think you could potentially progress this far?  
 LIAM BROADY: Well, obviously I played last week and I won I think it's the AEGON International in Roehampton, which is the warmup tournament for the junior Wimbledon.   
 Yes, I managed to win that. I feel confident on the grass. I was just taking it a step at a time really.   
  
  Q. Have you tried Andy Murray's specialty shot?  
 LIAM BROADY: Is that the one through the legs?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 LIAM BROADY: No. I don't think I'd be able to do that one very well.  
  
  Q. Have any of the other young British players tried it?  
 LIAM BROADY: I'm sure Oli tried it. He's pretty good at those shots. It's probably not the most clever thing to do during the match.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT