THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 2, 2018
Liam Broady
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. RAONIC/L. Broady   
7-5, 6-0, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What happened after the first set?  
LIAM BROADY: Yeah.  I mean, I was just saying outside, like, I have never played someone with a serve that big before.  From the start of the match, like, I think the first game he went a couple like 136, 138.  Even a second serve I think at one point in the match was like 140.   
I mean, you know, it kind of shocked me a bit, like, I have never played someone with a serve that consistently big.   
Yeah, and, you know, first set was going great, just focusing on my own serve, trying to get a look in every now and then, playing for the tiebreak, thinking if I manage to snatch a point here or there I could grab the breaker and get a bit of a steal.   
And then obviously he broke me.  I can't remember what happened that game.  Maybe he played a couple good points and maybe I played a weak one.  Set done, like that.   
And to come out second set thinking, Jeez, okay, here we go again.  Then he goes another load of big serves.  Then I'm serving 1-Love second set and he loosened off completely, starts to play really free.  And to think, Jeez, I got to do this again for another set or another three sets if I want to win.   
Yeah, it was tough.  He upped his game and before I knew it I was a break down, and then, you know, it just sort of all rolled together.  I mean, he was playing better and better.  Again, like no looks on his serve.  That's 50% of the games right there.  I mean, the other 50% maybe I should have won more than one.   
But that's tennis, you know.  Fair play to him, he's there for a reason.  Yeah.   
 Q.  What does it feel like when that serve comes down to you?  
LIAM BROADY: I don't -- like, it's pretty crazy.  Like I said the first game, like, I was almost just looking at the ball bouncing against the back fence.  What's just happened there?   
And then I started to get my racquet on the ball a bit and it's just so hard to control.  It's moving so fast, the heat on the ball is crazy.   
But I felt like, you know, actually towards the end of the match I started to actually return a little bit better.  I started to actually stand in to cut off the angles a bit.  Because his wide deuce serve is so good and his wide ad is really good too and he swings it T ad really well.  He serves well.   
I started standing in a bit more and try and block it back.  I felt a little bit better but obviously the damage was done.  I had already been broken a few too many times.   
 Q.  You were saying you notice the sort of speed of the serves.  Were you reaching a point you were almost looking over, thinking how fast was that?  
LIAM BROADY: Yeah, first game, from the first two points, you know, couple flew past.  Yeah, I looked up, like, jeez, that's a quick serve.  Yeah, and then I think, like I said, there was a second serve he hit, I think one of them he missed it was like 138 or something.  Jeez, am I looking at this wrong?  No, speed guns are pretty accurate.   
Yeah, and then it got to the stage I was looking up at my box, like, I don't really know what to do down here, because he's going huge on the first serve.  And then I class myself as a good returner, and usually I look to do a bit off the second serve and stand in maybe sometimes.   
There is not really much chance.  I'm playing against two first serves.  It's a new challenge that I have, you know, maybe not quite faced to that extent before.   
So we go away and learn from that I guess.   
 Q.  There was a point in the first set where he had a couple of doubles faults, he had missed a dropshot.  He lobbed you and then you responded pretty well.  What was it in that sort of first few games of the second set that was different?  
LIAM BROADY: Again, I mean, you know, first set I was just trying to hustle whatever points I could, to be honest.  I think that's all you can do.  You can't really construct your points when he's hitting that good.   
Second set, yeah, the good players, they are really good front runners, and he loosened up a lot and started to swing from the hip a bit.  Just gaining confidence more and more.  His forehand started to look as big as it usually does.  Towards the end his backhand looked pretty big, as well.  That was trouble.   
 Q.  You made some good progress obviously.  Is it disheartening to end like that?  Do you beat yourself up a bit or...  
LIAM BROADY: Yeah, I came off court and I was, like, it was definitely a tough one, because I went out there actually, you know, feeling like I could cause an upset today.   
I have not been getting the wins I wanted recently, but I have been playing pretty well and getting better all the time and been in a pretty good place mentally.   
It was disappointing obviously to come off court, especially to lose 12 of the last 13 games.  I think anyone is going to be pretty disappointed with that at the end of the day.  But I think it's good to keep a bit of perspective, as well, and remember who is on the other side of the court.   
 Q.  What's next for you now?  
LIAM BROADY: Doubles, maybe on Wednesday or Thursday with Scott Clayton, my partner.  And then after that I think I'm going to go over to North America and play the challenger swing before US Open quallies.   
 Q.  Is the target now pushing on trying to get towards the top 100?  
LIAM BROADY: Yeah, exactly.  That's one of my targets for the end of the year was top 100, and to win a challenger was one of those targets.  Fingers crossed I achieve both of those.   
 Q.  It will be nice to be back to Wimbledon next year not needing a wildcard.  
LIAM BROADY: Exactly.  I have taken a few wildcards in my time.  So yeah, I'm hoping to get to the place that Cam's in now.  He did a great job of it.  It took him less than a year to get into the top 100.  And especially got a few similarities in our game style, as well.  It's good to know that you can do it, as well.   
 Q.  When you see somebody doing that from the same country, does it make you think, why not?  I can do it.  
LIAM BROADY: Obviously, Evo has been a great help, as well.  He flew up there and he's always quick to try and advise other players and help them out with stuff.  Again, to see Norrie doing it, I think his game style is similar, both lefties, both baseliners, both return well.   
Yeah, definitely gives me heart to know that type of player can do really well.   
 Q.  Do you think it's a shame Dan's not here?  
LIAM BROADY: Yeah, I mean, Dan is a fantastic grass court player and he's -- well, I mean, he's a fantastic tennis player full stop and he's beautiful to watch on the court.  That was about to get weird (smiling).   
But, you know, the All England made their decisions for obvious reasons.  I think Dan understands that as well as anybody.  It's a shame he just didn't get through quallies, I guess.  Obviously too many matches in too many days, I guess.  But I'm sure he will be back next year off his own ranking, anyway.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT