WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2011
Liam Broady
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







L. SAVILLE/L. Broady
  2-6, 6-4, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Can you explain what happened during the second set when you were a break up. 
 LIAM BROADY: Yeah, I think for the duration of the match I don't think I served my best. I think obviously he's a good returner and he's a good player, so at part of the times in the match he's going to make it tough. That's why he's in the finals. He managed to break me and he started to serve better. It just slipped away.

 Q. What was it like out there?
 LIAM BROADY: That was probably one of the best things today; my tennis probably wasn't. No, no (smiling). 
 Yeah, no, it was a fantastic experience. I mean, they got behind me and really helped me out and really made me fight even harder than usual. 
 Yeah, it was good.

 Q. How do you feel in yourself now?
 LIAM BROADY: Mixed emotions. Obviously I'm proud I won the tournament last week and managed to make the finals this week. I think coming to the tournament, if you would have asked me before the first round and said, Would you take making finals, I'd definitely say yes. 
 But I think I could have taken it one step further.

 Q. What are your long-term goals? Do you dream of coming back here?
 LIAM BROADY: A hundred percent. Obviously every junior in the world would love to win Wimbledon seniors. I'd even love to win Wimbledon juniors next year as well and see where it goes.

 Q. A long time since Britain won anything boys-wise. Do you feel any of the pressure already?
 LIAM BROADY: No, not really. I think it's irrelevant to me, to be honest, because I'm my own player. I just play how I do and get on with it really.

 Q. What emotions were going through your head when you were a set and break up?
 LIAM BROADY: It was the same as any other match really. I guess I think, like I said, he just upped his game and he put a few winners past me. I played a few slack points and he played better. 
 In the third I think I probably had a few chances at 4-2 to break him. I played a few slack points again, so it's just the way it is.

 Q. What did you make of the amazing rally?
 LIAM BROADY: I actually thought I could have won it. 
 But, no, it was a good rally. But obviously we probably both had a few chances to finish the point at different times. Just managed to scramble it back. 
 But, yeah, it was a great rally.

 Q. If you could do anything different, rewind the tape, what would you do differently, if anything?
 LIAM BROADY: I'd probably try and focus on each individual point and not think about what the score was, focus on each first serve and second serve, try to make him play a few more balls.

 Q. Your profile has increased massively this week. I know you don't have the LTA funding. You couldn't afford to go to the Australian. Do you think you might now attract new sponsors?
 LIAM BROADY: Yeah, I think for sure. Obviously Wimbledon juniors is one of the biggest junior tournaments in the world. Hopefully, yeah, I'll be able to attract a few more sponsors.

 Q. Is it difficult to try to fund playing around the world?
 LIAM BROADY: Do you mean difficult finding sponsors? 

 Q. Finding the money. 
 LIAM BROADY: Yeah, I think obviously you have to have something special to your game to attract attention. Yeah, it is very tough.

 Q. So perhaps maybe this has attracted the right sort of attention. 
 LIAM BROADY: I'm hoping so, yeah.

 Q. Has tiredness been a factor with all the doubles as well? 
 LIAM BROADY: I think it's not been that bad, to be honest. I think last night I did the right things. Got up this morning and I felt fine. 
 I think, to be honest, after this I'll go out, eat a bit more food, get on court, focus on that, pretend like nothing happened.

 Q. Did you watch any more Harry Potter?
 LIAM BROADY: I didn't watch any Harry Potter last night. That's probably why I lost.

 Q. On the financial side, do you have to rely on parental backing, do you, to see you around the world?
 LIAM BROADY: Yeah. And Nike helped me out a little bit and gave me some funding, and so did Dunlop and so did Tennis First. So it's good.

 Q. Did you watch Andy's match?
 LIAM BROADY: I watched I think the first set. I thought he was going to take it. I watched the last few points of the fourth.

 Q. What did your parents say to you afterwards today?
 LIAM BROADY: I think they said, Well done, you made us proud. Hopefully be able to do better next time.

 Q. Any particular part of your game you feel you need to work on?
 LIAM BROADY: I'd probably say my serve. It's probably one of the biggest factors. But, uhm, yeah, definitely my serve the most. That's I think what let me down the most today, is probably my serve.

 Q. You seem a pretty levelheaded sort of guy. Is this the sort of thing that won't get you down?
 LIAM BROADY: Yeah, I think it's great motivation, you know, to come back maybe even at the US Open, train harder, get fitter, get stronger, and try and win it next time instead of making finals. Because it doesn't feel good. 

 Q. Have you got a girlfriend?
 LIAM BROADY: I haven't at the moment, no. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT