WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2011
Liam Broady
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 L. BROADY/J. Kubler
  6-4, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Were you at all tired today after yesterday's match?  
 LIAM BROADY: Yeah, I felt a little bit -- my legs felt a little bit heavy at times, but I was focused on the match and didn't really think about that.   
 I think I did the right things to try to recover quickly yesterday. I felt all right really.  
  
  Q. Is it something you have put any particular focus on, the physical side of the game?  
 LIAM BROADY: Hmm. Not so much. But that's the thing I've been changing since about December. I'm starting to focus on that a bit more.  
  
  Q. Did you do anything specifically, ice baths or anything like that?  
 LIAM BROADY: No, no. I just went back to -- I don't think I'll be doing the ice bath. I went back to the changing rooms and got massages and things. Just got some good pasta down me and got to bed early.  
  
  Q. What film did you watch?  
 LIAM BROADY: Uhm, I don't think I watched a film last night actually. I think I just sat on the computer for a while. (Laughing.)  
Q. In a year's time, do you have a plan where you might like to be at this time next year?  
 LIAM BROADY: Uhm, not really, no. Usually I make my goals at the end of the year for next year. I'm focused on this year's goals.  
  
  Q. Which were?  
 LIAM BROADY: Well, I was hoping -- there were a few different ones. I think in the men's game I was hoping for between 800 ATP and 500 ATP, and in the juniors I was hoping to maybe win a slam.  
  
  Q. So you're nearly there.   
 LIAM BROADY: Yeah, nearly there. Nearly there.   
  
  Q. There hasn't been a British winner of this title since 1962. Do you feel a weight of expectation on you?  
 LIAM BROADY: Uhm, no. I think I've done a lot better than most people would think to get here already. So tomorrow especially I think I'll just go out there and just play my tennis and see what comes out of it.  
  
  Q. Has the fact that Andy Murray has been going so well throughout the tournament, do you think that has taken some of the gaze off of you?  
 LIAM BROADY: Yeah, I think so. Obviously Andy's doing great. I'm hoping he's going to win today.   
 But it definitely takes a bit of the gaze off me, yeah.  
  
  Q. Have you had any contact with him at all?  
 LIAM BROADY: Uhm, he was asking to practice just for the left-handed sort of feel 'cause he's obviously playing Rafa, but I said no because obviously it was in the way of my match times.   
  
  Q. How much confidence did you take from last week?  
 LIAM BROADY: You mean Roehampton?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 LIAM BROADY: It helped massively obviously because I came from the Wimbledon qualifying and I got a good win there, and then lost the next round.   
 But it gave me some real belief, especially after I beat Vesely. I beat him for the first time. That's when I started to think I could actually do some damage at these tournaments.  
  
  Q. Where does your mental strength come from?   
 LIAM BROADY: Uhm, I'd probably like to be a bit mentally tougher, to be honest. No, I just love playing the game. Just enjoy it really.  
  
  Q. Is that something you've worked on at all, the mental side?  
 LIAM BROADY: Well, yeah, for a long time now it's been a big focus in my game because I think it's almost like a forehand or a backhand. It's just another attribute of the game.  
  
  Q. Have you always congratulated your opponent when they hit a good shot?  
 LIAM BROADY: It's a bit of a habit instead of being negative. I tend to do it when the guy hits an good ace or a winner. He deserves a bit of praise as well.  
  
  Q. What do you know about your opponent?  
 LIAM BROADY: I played him last in 14 unders, so it was a long time ago and things change. I don't know. I've seen him play a few times. Obviously he's a very good player.   
 Hopefully if I bring my game out, I'll be able to do some damage again.  
  
  Q. Has Andy given you any tips or had any time to give you any tips?  
 LIAM BROADY: No. I've not really seen him properly yet, no.  
  
  Q. Have you had any messages of congratulations at all, anyone notable in the game?  
 LIAM BROADY: Actually I saw Johnny McEnroe the other day. He's like, Yeah, congratulations. Apart from that, not anything.  
  
  Q. Did he say anything else to you?  
 LIAM BROADY: No, because he was walking past and I was walking past. We were both walking quite fast, so it was one of those.  
  
  Q. Talk about your family and the support they've given you.   
 LIAM BROADY: Yeah, I mean, obviously it was great, because my whole family, apart from my sister Naomi, was here today. I love the atmosphere on court. They just add to it, to be honest.  
  
  Q. It was interesting you didn't enter the French Open. Can you elaborate on how you managed to forget?  
 LIAM BROADY: It's a complicated one basically. We entered before you could actually enter, like two days before. So we tried to enter as early as we could so we didn't forget.   
 But then they said you couldn't enter in a later date. My dad went away to Uzbekistan when it was coming to near the end of the entry deadline, and I think it just kind of slipped his mind.  
  
  Q. Has it been a bit of a blessing in hindsight because you've had extra time on the grass?  
 LIAM BROADY: Yeah, I think -- obviously for sure I think I got two extra weeks on the grass and helped me got used to it a bit. I would still have loved to have played the French anyway.  
  
  Q. Is this your best surface?  
 LIAM BROADY: I'd say it is probably, yes.  
  
  Q. Followed by?  
 LIAM BROADY: Uhm, I love playing on grass, but I don't know really. I love playing on clay, sorry, but I'm not sure.  
  
  Q. Where was Naomi today?  
 LIAM BROADY: Today? Where is she at the moment? She's in Malaga I think or Marbella, having a few days off before she gets back to training.  
  
  Q. Do you must feel you owe your dad a lot given everything he's done for you? It would be great for you to win it to give that back to him.   
 LIAM BROADY: Well, obviously. I mean, I've been playing since I was four. Obviously I'm his son so he's given me everything. I'm where I am today because of him. It would be great to win it, yeah.  
  
  Q. How big a part of your game is discipline? I notice that both of you, throughout the two sets, there was not one challenge, yet quite a few very close calls.   
 LIAM BROADY: I think, uhm, from my point of view I think really the odd ones were bang on the line and most of the time we're still in the rally, so you don't really want to challenge it in case it is actually in.   
 I think the same for him. He's still in the rally. If the ball is close, you don't want to take that risk.  
  
  Q. But discipline is important to you?  
 LIAM BROADY: Yeah.  
  
  Q. There was one double-fault and you were giving yourself a hard time.   
 LIAM BROADY: Yeah, I think that's the one that was like 70 miles an hour. I was a bit frustrated with that one, to be honest with that one. Not a very good serve.   
  
  Q. Do you sense the British public are really getting behind you, and do you feel that they're desperate for someone else to come through like Murray has done?   
 LIAM BROADY: Well, obviously on court I've been getting so much support. It's been great. Around the grounds people have been saying, Well done. Even off the court, yeah, I've been getting a lot of, Well dones.   
 On Twitter I think -- I've been getting a lot of tweets saying, Well done, keep going, and all that.   
  
  Q. How many followers do you have?  
 LIAM BROADY: 2200.  
  
  Q. What was the court like, Court 3?  
 LIAM BROADY: It was a great court. I loved it, yeah. It's just, once again, a great atmosphere. Really enjoyable. Obviously the crowd's behind me more than my Australian opponent.   
 But, yeah, it was good.  
  
  Q. Was it good to have your dad there in the corner?  
 LIAM BROADY: It was fantastic, yeah. It was good.  
  
  Q. You said before you perhaps exceeded expectations to have got this far. Now that you have come this far, do you feel you're on that sort of roll that means you go into this really as the favorite?  
 LIAM BROADY: Well, I always go on court expecting to win, no matter who against. I think tomorrow I've got a very good chance if I play well.   
 Obviously, if he's too good on the day, then he's too good. But I think it will be another good match.  
  
  Q. Who are your tennis heroes?  
 LIAM BROADY: I'd have to say I do like Rafa quite a lot and Roger, but obviously they're the best two in the game. I used to enjoy watching a few older clips of Rios and things on YouTube and all that. I found his game quite fascinating.  
  
  Q. What will you do tonight?  
 LIAM BROADY: I think I'll probably go back to the house, maybe watch a movie again or something.   
  
  Q. Can you hear your family above the rest of the crowd?  
 LIAM BROADY: I just tend to block it out. I don't hear individual voices. It's almost just noise helping me and urging me on really.   
  
  Q. You were close enough to shake hands with your father.   
 LIAM BROADY: Yeah, I know. You see them -- like, at change of ends you look at them and they're clapping, saying, Come on, here we go. I don't hear separate voices. I don't think my hearing is that good.  
  
  Q. Two of the people that have tweeted you are Heather and Laura. Do you have a close relationship with them?  
 LIAM BROADY: Yeah, obviously I talk to them quite often, especially Laura, because up until recently I think she was in the same tennis academy in Mouratoglou.   
 Yeah, they're both great girls. Nice people. Keep in touch quite often.  
  
  Q. Does it make it more realistic for you knowing they won junior slam titles?  
 LIAM BROADY: No, to be honest I think it's irrelevant. I think everyone's experiences are different. Just get on with it.   
 Like yesterday Heather was by the court and for the finals Laura might come and watch. It's nice to have their support as well.  
  
  Q. What does your father do for a living?  
 LIAM BROADY: I think he's a landlord. I'm pretty sure (smiling).   
  
  Q. Your father is a landlord?  
 LIAM BROADY: Yes.  
  
  Q. And why is he in Spain, Uzbekistan?  
 LIAM BROADY: He's here now. But he flew back last night and then drove up. Because my sister plays tennis as well, Naomi. He's traveling with her quite a bit now.   
  
  Q. Do you think the experience of being in the doubles final last year can help you on Sunday?  
 LIAM BROADY: Yeah, I think a hundred percent it can do because obviously otherwise I haven't got a chance to play on Court 1. I'm hoping it's going to be a great crowd like last year, as well.   
  
  Q. Do you reckon your dad will do a free bar if you win tomorrow?  
 LIAM BROADY: I'm not sure about that one (laughter).   
  
  Q. Has anyone from the LTA contacted you at all about your win?  
 LIAM BROADY: No, not really. A few guys saying congratulations, but that's about it really.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT