AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 15, 2007
Grant Fuhr
Rick Rhoden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Rick, Chris seemed to seize that more than anything; would you agree with that? 
 RICK RHODEN:  Sees what? 

 Q.  Seize the championship. 
 RICK RHODEN:  Yeah, nobody gave it to him.  We played okay.  We didn't play great but we all shot under par, I believe.  How many points did he get today, 32 or 31?  That's a lot of points.  Should have got a few more yesterday, would have had a chance. 
 What did he shoot for the week, what did he score?  That's what I shot, 6-under.  He just had more birdies.  The format does prove that getting the birdies, that's the key. 

 Q.  Today he set the tournament scoring record for a single bound but he didn't have an eagle.  Tells you about how consistent he was. 
 GRANT FUHR:  What did he birdie, seven -- 

 Q.  Seven birdies, two bogeys. 
 GRANT FUHR:  Good golf any way you look at it.  Making putts out here, hard to make them -- hard for everybody in our group. 

 Q.  He was making some long ones, too, he probably made three or four from 30 feet. 
 GRANT FUHR:  Not sure I got three together 30 or 40. 

 Q.  You guys have played with him before.  He comes across as a pretty decent guy in here.  What's he like on the course? 
 GRANT FUHR:  He's a great guy to play with. 
 RICK RHODEN:  He's a real jerk.  (Laughter) No, he's a good guy. 
 GRANT FUHR:  Chris is a great guy to play with. 
 RICK RHODEN:  One thing about him, most everybody gets along, golf is the equalizer.  Doesn't matter what you did in any other sport.  Michael Jordan, he's not the Michael Jordan of basketball.  He's just Michael Jordan.  Golf is a big equalizer.  So guys that might have been great in other sports, golf has a way of humbling you. 
 GRANT FUHR:  Quickly. 
 RICK RHODEN:  When we got to 17, it was kind of obvious no one had a chance in our group.  Maybe if you birdied 17 and eagled 18, I don't know if he still would have had enough points.  Probably not. 

 Q.  But if you'd holed out -- how far out were you on 18? 
 RICK RHODEN:  If I holed it?  How many do you get for that? 

 Q.  Ten. 
 RICK RHODEN:  I think the odds are, I was playing for second.  I mean, look at it this way, I've never had a double eagle.  I really doubt I would have it exactly when I need it, over water, 190 yards.  (Laughing.) 
They had some very interesting pin placements this week.  There were two or three of them that were very interesting.  Somebody was a little sadistic that put them out there.  (Laughter) The one on 17 today, when they put it in there, they probably had a little chuckle when they left. 

 Q.  They were tougher than usual? 
 RICK RHODEN:  Oh, tough as I've ever seen hem them.  They are fine.  It's nothing wrong with that.  It's better for the good players when it's hard.  But they had a couple this week that were pretty interesting. 
 GRANT FUHR:  They were in some pretty good spots. 
 RICK RHODEN:  They put the pin one time down in the front bowl on 12 where they usually have it.  Like today you have a real good shot at birdie or hole-in-one, but the ball rolled right back down into that bowl.  They used to have it in there, usually first day one here.  It was tough. 

 Q.  Chandler has had a bunch of Top 10's, but now that he's won, is he like a much stronger threat at this tournament every year now? 
 RICK RHODEN:  He's always been a threat.  I mean, he hits the ball a mile.  He's probably the longest hitter we've got out here. 
 GRANT FUHR:  And he hits it straight. 
 RICK RHODEN:  His game is better now that he's not playing.  Everybody knows he's a pretty good player.  But he's capable of getting birdies and eagles. 
 He hit a good drive today on 18 but hit a 9-iron or wedge.  I hit a good drive and I hit 6-iron.  So he's at least two clubs further than me, at least. 

 Q.  A nice thing to have out here. 
 GRANT FUHR:  He probably hit nine in there. 

 Q.  Was there anything discussion, Rick, with you and other guys on the Champions Tour about your coming here to play this week? 
 RICK RHODEN:  No.  But they did get on me a couple of years ago, that I lost to Billy Joe, lost to a football player. 
 But they, you know, this is the only event that we have out here that's on TV.  So they just assume most of the guys can't play that good.  For them, you've got to get out there and play four or five times with guys and you see they are pretty good.  You have to earn their respect out there, so they are not going to get anybody's respect if they don't see them play. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT