SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2006
Rick Rhoden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Just your overall thoughts on the day?
RICK RHODEN:  It was hard playing today.  The last time I played this hard was at the final stage at Q School.  It was blowing 45 miles an hour, five out of six days.  It was really hard.  But this course, it isn't the kind of course that if you miss the fairway or miss, it's hard to get up and down and stuff.  And I was playing good.  I started on the back, I was 2 under after 8.  And then my driver, I couldn't hit a fairway.  I missed 18, got a bogey.  I missed 1, got a par.  Lucky I got a par.  I missed 2, got a bogey.  I missed 3 and got a double.  And it just snowballed.  It started going and finally something good happened and I made a few pars at the end, but it was rough.  You don't notice the trouble here until you start hitting your tee ball crooked, then all of a sudden that's all you see.
Q.  Tell me a little bit about getting to play on the weekend?
RICK RHODEN:  It's good.  You know, I played last year at the Senior U. S. Open, I made the cut and played the weekend and did okay.  So I'm disappointed in the way I played the front nine, which was my back nine today, I mean I just, I haven't played in enough of these Majors.  Every day I get two or three shots that I never had before and I really don't know how to go about handling them around the greens sometimes I give away a couple shots.  Today I gave away one.  And I got to realize that when you hit one in the rough and you have a marginal lie, get it back in the fairway.  You got to take double bogey out of play.  Get it in the fairway and take your chances.  And I tried to do too much on 3 today and I didn't have to.
Q.  Was there anything over the last two days that you'll take into the weekend that you'll work on?
RICK RHODEN:  Just all of it.  Just you got to drive the ball good.  And that's usually the best thing I do.  And today I did not drive it good.  I did not hit very many fairways.  And you got to hit them especially whether it's windy like this.  Because these aren't the kind of greens you can bounce balls into, there's something in front of them.  And if you're in the rough, there's water, bunkers, deep, you know, if you don't hit the fairway you have a hard time getting a par.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT