ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
February 21, 2020
Harmanpreet Kaur
Poonam Yadav
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








India - 132/4, Australia - 115
Q. Harmanpreet, how proud are you of your team after that performance? Australia were 60 for 2 chasing 130. Did you still believe you could win the game at that point?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Yes, definitely. We do have very good spinners that can always turn the game for us, and that's what we were discussing. Sometimes it didn't happen when other teams get a partnership, but once you get one wicket then you can always turn the game for you, and that's what exactly happened. Poonam did a great job for us, and I think credit goes to our bowlers. They trust themselves and win the game for us.
Q. Just a word on Poonam. You held her back until I think it was about the ninth. Was that always going to be a tactic to try and have her bowl quite deep into the innings?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Yes, definitely, because she is a very good T20 bowler. She's someone who always bowls for the team, and it's not easy to play because she's a little slower in the air, but in T20 format she loves to bowl with a nice lead. When you have to hit her, you need to show some patience, and you need to have very good skill, and I think that is a reason we kept her bowling, and we gave her when we needed a wicket, and she did a great job.
Q. Harmanpreet, you spoke before about how you were relying on your top four batters when you had a struggle at the start of your batting innings. Did you worry about the middle order having to rebuild, and how good a job do you think they did in terms of that rebuild?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Well, our plan was very simple. We wanted to use for six overs, and we got 40, 45 runs in the first six overs, and later on we just were looking for singles. I know our top three batters got out early because in T20 format sometimes you have to take risks because when you're looking for 140, 130, because Australian side, they have quite a long batting side, and you cannot always think, okay, 140, 150 as a defending total. But initially we were looking for a bigger total, but our plan was 140, 135 if we can score and then later on the bowlers can do the job for us.
Q. Did the pitch surprise you in having to readjust your score, your target?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Not really because I knew this pitch because I played quite a few games on this wicket, and I knew it's a little sticky wicket because sometimes in T20 the batter always looks for runs, and when you're not getting runs you can easily lose your wicket, and that's what exactly happened. Our bowler was got giving easy balls to their batter and we were able to get easy wickets when we needed.
Q. Harmanpreet, were you surprised by the Australian batting order? Ashleigh Gardner slid down to No. 5 and Ellyse Perry obviously came out quite late. It was a little different to what happened in the Tri-Series?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Well, in T20 format you cannot set your one battling lineup, you have to keep changing according to the situation, and that's what I think they did. We just wanted to stick to our plan. We are not worried what other teams are doing, we just want to do what we know as a team, and we just stick to our plans.
Q. Harmanpreet, a result like this, how much can that take pressure off for the next week or so given the position it puts you in the group and the games you have ahead? Does it make life a little bit easier do you think?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Well, in T20 format you cannot relax at any moment because T20 format is where any team can beat any time, and you have to keep winning and you have to keep motivating your team because in T20 format, one win, you cannot rely on one win because you have to keep winning and keep in the tournament because it's very important. Of course we are very happy because it was the first game and we wanted to win, and this game is going to set the tone for us, but we know our upcoming games are very important for us. We have to win those games, also, and we are looking forward to doing well in the future.
Q. After all the buildup for this tournament, this match especially the last few days here in Sydney, is this one of the most important and special victories you have had?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Well, every week is important to us because you do all the hard work to win the game for your team and every game is important. Definitely this game was important because it was the first game of the tournament, and we knew winning the first game, you always think you can get a lot of positivity, and definitely this win is also important for us.
Q. Harmanpreet, you did win the match, but what about the batting of the Indian side? Are you happy with the batting?
HARMANPREET KAUR: See, we did get a good start in the first six overs. I know Smriti and my wicket was very important for the team, and we both didn't play short at the right time, but it did happen in the T20, in the format. You see other players are also there to support you, and we are really happy that Deepti and Jemi did a great job for the team because we knew playing any game you need partnership, and I think the partnership between Deepti and Jemi played a very big role for us. See, sometimes it's always not possible when your whole batting order clicks; they did the job for us and we are happy about that.
Q. Poonam, I want to get confirmation of the injury that you've had, which finger, and the bandaging that you've got on there, is that the same finger or is that another issue?
POONAM YADAV: The same thing.
Q. And it was a fracture; is that correct?
POONAM YADAV: Yeah, yeah.
Q. Is it still painful?
POONAM YADAV: A little.
HARMANPREET KAUR: Because sometimes when somebody is hitting too hard and it's really hard to get. It's just healing, and hopefully she'll just -- because when she's playing then it's fine because when you're playing you're always looking to win for the team. You don't keep these things in mind, like what part is hurting and what is not, you just stay in the game, and I think she's doing a great job for the team.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT