ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 22, 2018
Harmanpreet Kaur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
England - 116/2, India - 112/all-out   
 Q.  Just with 112 did you think you had enough?  
HARMANPREET KAUR: Definitely it was not enough to tell you, but still I had enough faith that we could have bowled better I think we could've won the game, but it's part of the game sometimes.  You don't have that much to do if a bowler takes pressure.   
Of course it was not enough of a total.  But I think if we had 140, 150 then definitely we would win the game.   
 Q.  In the bowling, where do you think that the match went away?  
HARMANPREET KAUR: Well, the total was not enough.  I think the bowlers were doing well, but I think just because the total was not enough, I cannot say a bowler did not bowl well enough.  I think everyone was bowling well.  But I think just because of the total we were not able to make it.   
 Q.  When India was batting, it seemed like the wicket was taking quite a bit of turn and stopping.  But when England was batting it seemed to be like batting was easier.  Was that because of the wicket or the lengths?  
HARMANPREET KAUR: I think the first innings the wicket, there was a turn on the wicket and their bowlers were turning also.  And I think in the second innings I think the dual factor was there.  I think just because of the dual bowling a turn much.  But there's no excuse because we wanted to bat first.  That's why we choose to bat first.  I think we didn't set a decent total on the board.   
 Q.  After watching, did you watch the first match on this pitch?  
HARMANPREET KAUR: Yes.   
 Q.  After watching that match, did you get a sense that maybe the plan that India generally goes out with a flame attacking wickets may not work and then have to take their time?  
HARMANPREET KAUR: I'll say if you see throughout the tournament our approach was attack, so that is the reason.  Also we wanted to attack.  I think sometimes it worked in your way and sometimes it doesn't work.  So I think that was our plan, to attack.  And I think I know like their wicket was a bit different here because again at the beginning it was different.   
But it's part of the game sometimes.  If you are attacking or you get, like, if you are able to have some two, three good partnerships, so we were maybe able to set this total.  I think it's part of the game.  Sometimes if you attack you get runs.  Sometimes if you take the chances, you lose wickets also.   
 Q.  Can you explain the decision to go in without Mithali Raj?  
HARMANPREET KAUR: We were going with a winning combination.  We did really well against Australia.  And that is the reason we just wanted to go with the same combination.   
 Q.  Was it hard to replace Veda with Mithali in the tournament?  
HARMANPREET KAUR: If you see they are different player modalities.  She (Mithali) opens.  We need someone after Smriti and me who can bat for us.  Sometimes when you have a less over, sometimes you click, sometimes it doesn't click.  But if you see both are different players.  I cannot compare both.   
 Q.  How do you assess India's batting in this tournament?  You of course have done well and Smriti and Jemi as well.  But what kind of support have you got?  
HARMANPREET KAUR: Like, right now, there was like we are building a team and  Jemi did really well in this tournament.  Like when you're building the team, you need some more young players to come and perform.  I think we are a quite young team and they're doing well.  And sometimes, like Jemi, she's very mature.  She adapts to the international level very early and some other players, they may take some time and it's a learning process and it's like building the team, I think.  If we get some more young players who take the responsibility, that will be great for us.   
 Q.  What were the main takeaways for India from this tournament?  
HARMANPREET KAUR: I think the way we play, like, the aggressive cricket.  I think earlier we were very different defensive team and now we are attacking.  I think now we're helping.  I think these are things we would like to take away.   
 Q.  And, again, the batting collapsed today.  Obviously in the 2017 final as well.  You spoke yesterday about learning from that match.  Do you think the learning has happened?  
HARMANPREET KAUR: I cannot compare 2017 to today's day because if you see throughout the tournament we batted really well.  We were taking the responsibility and we were having good partnerships.  But they cannot go in the side, we have learned or not, but it's part of the game sometimes to collapse sometimes, you take partnership.   
I think it's just a matter of how you accept the situation at that time, I think.  It's part of the game.  Sometimes you collapse; sometimes you get runs.   
 Q.  What about the crowd here today?  
HARMANPREET KAUR: We got very good support, and I think women's cricket is going to the next level now.  And people are coming and watching, and I think it's a good sign.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT