ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 21, 2018
Harmanpreet Kaur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Six months ago maybe a lot of people would have said that India who have had no chances of coming to the semifinal.  How is the feeling now in the team?  
HARMANPREET KAUR: Well, that's true.  When we were coming here no one was sure about that we could qualify for the semi, I think.  The credit goes to all team members and support staff that we worked hard with the last couple of months, I think.  It's just because of their hard work we have reached here.   
 Q.  What has changed?  
HARMANPREET KAUR: I think the self belief because I can give credit to Ramesh (Powar, coach)because the time he joined our team our mindset and approach has totally changed now.  And I think now we have better plans and we can think bigger I think.  Total credit goes to him.   
 Q.  How is Mithali shaping up for tomorrow's game?  
HARMANPREET KAUR: She's better now.  She came yesterday for training also, but rest up tonight.  I can say the physio can tell better - how she's feeling.   
 Q.  Against England, how much is that final going to be on everyone's mind?  Playing England, how much is that final going to be on everybody's mind?  
HARMANPREET KAUR: We're taking another game like we played in the league games.  I think the team is well prepared.  Everyone is looking quite confident now.  And it's just a matter of one more game now.  I think we all are looking confident.  I think we just need to focus what we have done well in the last league games and those things we need to just continue now.   
 Q.  Has the team watched the match again, that last final?  Have you watched the video of that match again?  
HARMANPREET KAUR: Which match?   
 Q.  The finals.  The World Cup final.  
HARMANPREET KAUR: We played, I think --   
 Q.  Have you watched it again to sort of put it out of your mind and put it in the past?  
HARMANPREET KAUR: I think we have watched a lot of times because I think that particular game we did a lot of mistakes.  I think we just need to keep those things in the mind and learn from them.   
And I think as a team I think we need to live in the present.  At present we're doing really well, I think.  Other than thinking about the past we just need to think what we need to do in the next game as a team.   
 Q.  England are also going with a big spin attack.  How have your plans been in preparation for that?  
HARMANPREET KAUR: No doubt, Antigua, we had more on spin attack.  And every team is depending on the spin attacking, I think.  It just depends how you prepare and how you're approaching towards the wicket.  I think the short form of game.  You don't need to think about, like, certain things.  You just need to go and play your natural game, other than just thinking about how the wicket is behaving, how like the things are going.  I think just need to think freely and just execute your plans.   
 Q.  It's expected to be a big crowd tomorrow.  England said actually that the West Indies game, the crowd actually was a factor.  How prepared are you guys to face, to play in front of a big crowd?  
HARMANPREET KAUR: I think it's good now people are coming and watching women's cricket.  I think it's a positive sign.  And we always love to play when a lot of crowds come and watch us.  I think that's what we're expecting from the crowd, and I think it's a good thing.  And we just need to enjoy that, that people are coming and watching us.   
 Q.  This will be the first match played under the lights (for your team).  What's the preparation like for that?  
HARMANPREET KAUR: Here we got three practise sessions and we played one practise game.  And I think it's just a matter of how early you can settle for the conditions and think of -- we did do the practise session and the girls are looking quite confident now and hopefully another day, like, we just stick to what we are doing in the past and just give our best on this team.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT