ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 9, 2018
Harmanpreet Kaur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








India - 194/5, New Zealand - 160/9
Q. Obvious question.  What was going through your mind?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Well, I know it was a first game and I just -- I know it's a good batting track.  And if I settled down, I can get the runs.  And that's what I was thinking.  I just need to settle down.  Once I settled down, I could execute myself.
Q. Did you target certain bowlers, you identified this bowler I can hit in these areas?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Once you settle down you need to execute yourself.  And I took my time.  And later on when I was watching the ball well and then I just execute and I was looking for the open areas where I can hit and I can get the runs.
Q. What happened in between you had to get the physio out?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Yesterday, I was having a little bit of back problem.  And in the morning I was not feeling well.  And I think when I came to the ground, I was feeling a little low and getting some cramps.  And that's what -- and later on when I went for batting, when I was getting two runs and I was feeling a little bit crampy, and later on they gave me the medicine and now I'm feeling better.
Q. Stomach cramps?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Yeah.
Q. Like stomach cramps?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Yeah.
Q. Even when you hit the 171, you seemed to be in certain pain.  Is it that you seemed to find another level mentally when you have to overcome issues like this?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Well, unfortunately it happened.  But yes, I was nervous in the morning because it was the first game and it was a very crucial game for us.  And I think happy like in the end of the day we're able to make it and really happy like we won today.
Q. So as you said you took your time settling down.  How important was it to have someone like Jemimah Rodrigues at the other end getting the runs where you could settle?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Yeah, when she got her first boundary, she was looking very well the way she played that cover drive.  That really gave me confidence when someone is getting good runs and middling the ball really well.  Later, when I went initially, I took my time she was getting runs for us.  And once I settled down, then we are trying to attack from both sides.  And I think she played really well because when someone is hitting, you need someone who can rig the side and give strike with hitting well, and I think she played really well.  And she, I think -- I can say she plays a real mature inning with me.
Q. When did it strike that 100 can be on?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Well, I was really not looking on like how much runs I am getting.  I was just looking how much we need to win the game and we knew like they have really good batters.  So Sophie Devine and Bates, we knew if we scored just 150 we're not able to make it because they are also good hitters.  And with me and when Jemimah and was playing with us thinking how much run we can get on the board that was the plus run for us.
Q. You sort of changed up the batting order a little bit, what was the thinking behind opening with Dayalan?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Well, Dayalan was -- Dayalan did really well in Sri Lanka series and later on she got really good runs in the first friendly game.  And the way she was batting, we just wanted to like give more chance to the young players, if someone like Dayalan, if she gets runs for us, it's plus one for the team.  And I think we knew like if (indiscernible) and like in middle order we have more batting order strong.  And that's what we did today.
Q. Harmanpreet, can you describe how bad the stomach cramps were?  What happened out there?  What did you say when the physio is running, what did you say to anyone out there?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Well, from the morning I was getting a little bit cramps and when initially I was running two runs I got a cramp, and after that physio gave me the medicine and then it's a bit later, it settled down.  Then I thought instead of running too much, if I can get more, make a big shot and like because if you're running too much then I was getting more cramps.  And then I just told him if you can give strike to me I can go for big shot.
Q. So in a way it kind of helped you, you're saying?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Maybe.
Q. So can you tell us, you also I think you got three of the first nine balls.  What was the switch, I guess, that made you flick into overdrive?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Well, it was first game.  And to be honest, I was nervous, because I know no matter how much you played, when you're playing such a great level, you always are nervous about it.  And I'm also -- I also get nervous.  But yes when I was middling the ball, once I started middling the ball after that I started just getting my shots.
Q. How does this compare for you to that 171 against Australia last year?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Well, both were big innings for us.  We were qualifying for the finals.  And today was still staying in the league.  And I think both innings were important.  And happy whenever you get runs and the team wins.  It always give you motivation.  And it's really good for me to build my inning in the next upcoming games.
Q. Can your batting get better than what it was today?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Yes.  We need to focus on first six overs, because the first six is already really important because when you have only two fielders outside, how much can you get it, it's always a plus point for us.  And that is the only reason we went Dayalan, in the open, who can play freely.  Because if you have youngster who are not thinking too much, just want to enjoy your game, I think that is a reason we started with Dayalan today.
Q. What about your batting personally, can your batting get better than what we saw today?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Yes, why not?  Because every day's a learning day.  And today I learned a lot and definitely when I go for next time to bat I would like to learn from my batting.
Q. Tell us your mindset when you came out there.  The scoring was not what you would want maybe in a T20.  And you have this cramp.  I mean you got a treatment, but after you made -- did it change your mindset to go after the bowling?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Well, when you're playing for your country, doesn't matter how sick you are.  But you have to give your 100 percent because you hardly get chances to play for your country.  And I didn't want to miss out.
And I was getting cramps and I was just telling one thing to myself because I have to play well today, then only like we are able to get runs, because in past 4, 3 matches I was getting runs.  And that's what I was thinking because when you are peak of your batting performance, you just need to enjoy that time and just need to execute yourself.
Q. What does this victory mean for India in this tournament?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Well, every game is important for us.  And we prepared really hard for this World Cup.  And I think it means a lot for us because we knew New Zealand has a very good side.  If we win against them, it will be definitely a lot of confidence.
Q. 6s, you're second on the list all time to Deandra Dottin, nine 6s in the World Cup, maybe we'll see a record race between the two of you in this World Cup, 17, 9, 11 now?
HARMANPREET KAUR: I like to hit long shots.  And that's what I was trying today.  And I think once you settle, need to execute yourself.  Other than thinking how many 6s I'm hitting I was enjoying myself in the middle and happy because we win today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT