ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 2, 2018
Harmanpreet Kaur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How does it feel to be taking part in your first stand-alone Women's T20?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Well, it's really exciting for us because we have seen -- cricket has improved a lot in the last couple of years.  And we're really happy now this year, the ICC, like, we are playing without men.  I think it's really good for us.
Q. How comfortable are you after the 2017 tournament, how comfortable of repeating your performance over here in the T20 tournament?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Well, we were very satisfied that, like, we did really well in the last 50-over World Cup, and we're looking forward now for the World T20 also.  And the way we played the last couple of months, we are really happy as a team and we're looking forward to do well in this World T20 also.
Q. How are preparations going so far for the tournament?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Well, last couple of months we did a lot of preparation, especially in our bowling department.  Our coach worked hard a lot on our bowling unit.  And we're really happy the way our team is progressing now and we're looking forward to do well.
Q. What could you tell us is the one thing that is the strength of your team?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Well, right now we're working on our unit, and I think if we play as a unit we will definitely get a positive result.
Q. You played yesterday at the stadium before a very big crowd.  What did you make, first, of the crowd and the response to the game?  And then the game overall, getting home by three runs, how would you say it went yesterday?
HARMANPREET KAUR: It was really exciting because we didn't expect a friendly game.  A lot of people who came and watched us were really happy to see the crowd and they were really enjoying watching us.  And I think this is what we're expecting as a team, like, in this World T20 we're hoping for more crowd.  And really enjoyed the last game and happy that we started with a win.
Q. What are the new terms of play that are coming up, in the future, what to watch out for in this tournament?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Yes, now we have quite a young team, except two, three players, who have some World Cup experience, except that we have a very young unit.  And I think they perform really well in the last couple of months.
And they're able to understood what their role for the team is, and I think they're responding very well to us, and I hope like in this World T20 only, not the seniors play, if the young players will perform, it will be good for us.
Q. How do find the conditions here?
HARMANPREET KAUR: Well, last game, if I talk about, it was good to back down, but the effect is always important.  If you play -- if you watch the wind and play accordingly, I think it will definitely help you to set a good score on the board.  But at the same time, if you bowl according to the wind, like where the wind is blowing, and if you bowl in that areas, you're able to receive it, the better.
I think it will help for both sides whether we're batting or bowling.  If you plan in the right way, you are able to do good.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT