OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 24, 2019
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obviously 18 didn't go your way.  How are you feeling on the whole?  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Feeling is good.  Today I had very good putts, and I think we hit only nine greens today and didn't find not many fairways, but the only thing, we had good up-and-down, and we hit on a green, we made a putt from there.  After 17, we doubled the last.  I think last week we talked about like trying to hit good lay-up, but I think the wind needs to be higher.  I tried to hit easy.  Unfortunately I hit behind the ball and dunked it in the water, made double bogey on the last.   
Finally I play well -- I never play well when -- but come back this week, unbelievable.  The feeling is good.  I like to play the course, but sometimes you find more birdies.  That's a good start anyway.  6-under is a good start for me today.   
 Q.  Tell us about the conditions of the course.  It looks beautiful.  Some of the guys were saying because it was quite cold this morning, the ball wasn't travelling as far.  Others were having difficulty reading the putts.  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I believe it was in the morning, quite heavy in the morning because a lot of moisture in the morning.  I think after that, if the sun is coming back, it's going to be -- it's okay.  I played the back nine, I not complain at all.  The course condition is very good.  The greens are all very well, and I have no complaints at all.   
 Q.  How important is it for you this year to get off to a really good start?  I know last year you didn't hit the expectations that you've become accustomed to.  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, I think it's very important about this week, as well.  This year -- I didn't play well last year.  We didn't play well last year.  Putting is sucking, but this week I think it's more confident.  My putting is getting better.  As well we tried to change something in our putting.  We used the normal putting course here this week, and it helped me a lot.  I think good chance to play well another day.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT