OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 10, 2016
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What do you think of the golf course? 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, the golf course is good. It's a good design but it's new. It's good. I think the golf course is fine. The green is quite a challenge. The greens is good for play the kind of setup, anything, the weather, because the golf course is fantastic. Grass is good. Fairway, tee to fairway is good. Green is good. Everything is waiting for another few months, going to be 100 percent. I think it's good. Everyone has same condition. It's new for everyone. 

Q. It feels very linksy. 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: It's very like links but very not, some mix in the design. A few holes going to be very difficult. The par 4, like 12, very small, very tight, and in the second shot, you have to keep the ball in play. It's very challenging. The par3, some is very long, some is middle and some is short. 

Q. So a good mix of holes then? 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I recommend the back nine is going to be a challenge. It's quite difficult on the back nine.

Q. So how do you feel about being here now? You see the Olympic rings over there. It's different, isn't it. 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Exactly, really different. But you know, a few different, but it's 72 holes, no cut, that's good. It's good fun. I hope everyone has good fun. Good thing for our players. 

Q. It's important for Thailand and for Asia to get television exposure of golf. 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Olympics I think is quite new for golf. That's why you know everyone try to get the first time to be Olympics, show what they are doing, every country. For our country, like good support. I think the first thing, very proud of Thailand to be in the Olympics, and also new for Asia. It's good for Asian tour. Good for everything for Asia. I don't know the result, but for TV it's great. 

Q. Are you staying in the Olympic Village? 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I've been there but I stay outside with my family. I go every day. 

Q. Have you seen anyone famous? 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I think we walking around that area and so many people. When you're walking, they have like the park in the middle we walk through and a lot of people come in walking or talking. Everyone going to go back home, back to the village, walking down from the bus station, walking to and it's very good fun, really good to be there. But it's so busy.

Q. Did you go to the Opening Ceremony? 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: No, we don't have time because we staying in America. It looks good on TV. On the plane we see on the TV. It's good, like I saw it on the picture, and it's very nice.

Q. Are you enjoying the Olympic experience for Thailand? Does it make you feel very proud? 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: That's the thing, very proud for our country. First thing I think is I don't know whether I can get to the next time. I'm going to be Champions Tour for the future. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT