OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 6, 2010
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Thongchai, welcome back. Give us your assessment of today. Happy?   
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, very happy today. Quiet start on the front nine, missed about five greens and very lucky, 5 hole, got very good up-and-down and then four greens, three birdies on the front nine. We have ten putts on the front nine.  
 And back nine, I played very well on the back nine. You know, I missed some very good chances, like 15, 16, very good chance on 15 and 16, and 13 I hit bad the second shot, went in the left and very good shot to the green and made par.   
 And 18, the ball had so much spin and very good, lucky from that, made par from that.   
  
  Q. You didn't make any birdies on the back nine, though, did you. That must have been quite frustrating?   
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I think I played better than front nine. Front nine, I get a great putt on 8 and 9 and the par 5. The front nine, not easy, you know, the front nine is quite tougher than the back nine.   
 Back nine can be good chance on par 5s. You have three par 5s on the back nine. 13 is quite easy if you hit the fairway, the second shot is very easy. Today I hit very good, drive from the tee very good, putting on the back nine quite tough, because the green is a lot slopey, sometimes you hit the long side, it's very difficult to putt. I very enjoy it and good score for today. 3-under, good score for me. Very happy with that.  
  
  Q. But considering at one stage you were three shots in the lead, do you come off the course disappointed that you're not in the outright lead?   
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: No, you know, it depends, golf, you never know. I play myself -- if I make par, no bogey, that's fine. If I have a good chance, you can do it, it's okay. Tomorrow one more day, very close. Maybe a good chance for tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Being the Asian No. 1, I think three times you've been Asian No. 1?  
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yes.   
  
  Q. How much of an inspiration was it to you for when Yang won the US PGA last year? Did that give you inspiration that an Asian player, you could do the same?   
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, why not? You never know. Yank, he is a very good player. I would like to see young generation from the Asian Tour getting to like play in the Masters, all of the majors. I would like to see Asian players to win a major again, I hope maybe in the future.  
  
  Q. Maybe this year?  
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I'm trying my best. You know, if I get -- I try to play like all the majors. If I get in, I would like to play.   
  
  Q. You've been in the lead now over two days and Jeev was joint on the first day; do you think Asia has caught up with Europe and the rest of the world?  
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Why not? Golf you play anywhere, anyone can win the tournament. Sometimes you have a good week or you have a good week and you have a chance to win the tournament. But I dream if I win, very good for me, every week I try. If not, next time. Next week, week after, whatever. I try my best all the time.   
  
  Q. When you were growing up, who were the golfers you looked up to? Who were the heroes?   
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: When I start to play golf, I have two, Thai guy, Boonchu Ruangkit, he is the best golfer in Thailand, and one I saw was Ernie Els when I started, about the same age, but Ernie Els is a little bit older than me. When I started playing golf at 16, I saw both of them doing very well.   
  
  Q. It's exciting for us to have four players up there so tight; is that as exciting for you? Does the prospect of playing tomorrow excite you, or would you prefer to be two or three shots in front? Well, obviously you would.   
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: The golfers, Lee, he is playing so strong now, he hits it so far, and well, everybody has a good chance. Like we have a good chance for tomorrow. If I play well, like I hit the ball very well, putting well, everything perfect, everybody has a good chance. For me, I enjoy it and hope tomorrow I play well.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT