BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 24, 2009
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. So how satisfying is today's round given the conditions?  
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I played well today. I hit a lot of greens today, but had a 3-putt on the last.   
 I'm very happy with that. Today, I know the weather, it's quite difficult in the afternoon. We are lucky we start early today. Early the wind is not very strong I think, but the last seven holes, very, very strong wind and very difficult to play the course. No. 7 is very soft because it's a long par 4 and playing into the wind. Usually it's about a driver and 3-wood, 50 yards short, and that is very tough today.   
 I enjoy to play the course and very good shot for the next two round. I have to keep my plan to play the course and my feeling is better now.   
  
  Q. The way the weather has gone, is it all the more important that you shot such a good score on the first day?  
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: First day is very, very easy, no wind, the wind is very quiet, not very difficult.   
 Today, very difficult, and I'm enjoying, but I like to come here. The course is in very good condition, as well. The greens are playing very well.  
  
  Q. How difficult a course is it?  
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I think the weather, if the wind is like this (howling wind) it is very hard to play the course. The greens are a bit firm and difficult to control the ball, as well. I mean, the weather, it's very hard to play this course.   
  
  Q. They are good at preparing courses here in Korea, aren't they?  
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, it's a very good course. Yesterday was very low scoring and today it's a bit higher, and in the afternoon.  
  
  Q. Do you notice the difference here to maybe other Asian countries?  
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: You know, I won in 2001 in Korea, and then I think the last four or five years, I never come here. Actually I like to come to Korea. Every course is very good in Korea, and food is good for me, also.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT