DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 20, 2015
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What do you reckon to a round of 67 to move right up there today?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, no complaints for both rounds.  We played well.  We played great yesterday and today.  No complaints.  We hit 17 greens yesterday, 16 greens today, a couple holed putts.  The golf course is absolutely perfect.  Great condition.  Greens is very, very smooth.  That's why you know you can see the nice breakout today.  But I'm not complaining with my round, but yesterday and today, completely very confident and we had a good game.  We're confident about putting and that's why make we quite confident for last round.
Q. You must be proud, as well, to know that you've got such accuracy out there.  It's not every week that you're hitting the greens in regulation like that?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, I'm very confident, that's what I tell you.  You make it confidence, anyway, you don't get scared of anything.  You miss a couple of greens, you can make up-and-down.  For both rounds, I only miss two -- yesterday we miss one green and today we miss two greens.  Still, two bogeys for both rounds.
Anyway, we can't complain golf like this.  We're still very confident and very good for my performing.
Q. It's nice, as well, isn't it, to go week-to-week, different courses, different conditions and still keep the game very much on the same standard?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: This week is my seventh week in a row since playing The Presidents Cup.  So now tired but still try to keep my control, that's my thing, easy swing and hit tee to fairway and then fairway to green, that's what I plan every week.  But today, and especially this week, I start very well.  Hit 17 greens, 16 greens today.  I think putting is going to be some good, some not good, doesn't matter.  The greens is very good.  The golf course is very good.
Q. Kiradech is saying he's kept his energy because he's found a good restaurant down the road.  Does that work for you?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: For me, the food and the evenings, if you like it to do, the most important about food, you find good food, you make it enjoy to have dinner.  For me, if I find Thai food or Korean food, in China -- or Chinese food, would be great.  This week we have a good restaurant about ten minute around the area, around 10, 15 minutes from the hotel, it's very good.  Then makes it like home.  That's why we have to find a good restaurant.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT