BMW MASTERS
November 14, 2015
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you talk about your round today?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, I played well anyway, we hit a lot of greens.  The key this week, I think today we are putting well.  Hit a lot of greens on the front nine, but still a very good round.  I think my game plan this week is good.  Hit irons well, working on putting, and that's why what gives me very good confidence for today.  6-under is a very good score anyway.
Q. And the last hole?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Because the wind, driving, it's good driving, good driver just into the rough.  We had second shot, we had a 5-wood, and I think third shot is difficult.  Tough on the third shot because you have to chip past the slope because the slope is three or four yards from the pin.  That's very difficult.  Good chip anyway and putt, it missed, but it's okay.  One bogey, still good chance for tomorrow and look forward to tomorrow.
Q. As the leader, do you have some special prep for tomorrow?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: No, we do the same thing.  If you try to hit a lot of fairway, hit all the greens, try to get good putts.  That's why the key tomorrow going to be putting challenge tomorrow.  If you have good game plan anyway and working with your putting, you have good chance to win for tomorrow.
Today, hit about 15 greens.  That's why the key today, I played irons very well, and putting well, as well.  6-under is pretty good, very good round for me today I think.  I think my key for performing tomorrow, good chance to win tomorrow anyway.  I try to get my confidence -- the key plan to tomorrow, I try to hit a lot of fairways and hit a lot of greens.  That's the key.  I think the putting challenge for tomorrow.
Q. When do you think Chinese players will make next year The European Tour; do you have some advice?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I thought Wu actually won on The European Tour this year.  I think he won one tournament, something like that.  I think he should be playing next year.  But I can see that Liang Wen-Chong played well in Japan.  But I think it's a lot of guys I think starting to play very well.  We see the future in the Chinese players in Europe, it's going to be --  you can see more in the future.
Q. On the back of your victory at The European Open, are you simply feeling very confident and happy with your game at present?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, I think I won Porsche in Germany, we have pretty good confidence.  Putting working and then you know, driver a little bit sometimes.  But my iron play, I think that's the key, and putting, we work right now.  Tomorrow I'm going to play my own game and look forward to things tomorrow.
Q. Do you consider yourself a good frontrunner?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, but you know, I cannot -- it's golf, but you know, front nine, I play well and back nine, I struggling, because I know 18 is going to be tough today.  I think it's fairly -- one shot, two shot, whatever, we try to get it back tomorrow.  Tomorrow is a very big day, if I play well like this and keep performing like this, I have a good chance.  But golf, you never know what you're feeling tomorrow for the 72 holes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT