UBS HONG KONG OPEN
October 24, 2015
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What are your thoughts on moving into a nice position with a lovely round today?  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, I played great both rounds, yesterday and today.  Yesterday I hit better than today.  Today I think I holed more putts today.  That's the main key because the putting challenge, because the greens is so difficult to read and bumpy.  The whole thing is, good comeback for 6-under today.   
Yesterday and today, struggling with putting.  Yesterday we had three under, and today about 26 putts, that's the difference.  You hole more putts and you feel more confident.  Feel very confident today, played a very good round.   
 Q.  It was lovely in the back nine, birdie after birdie.  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, I had a good shot and a good putt.  I missed an eagle on 13 to about ten feet, missed from that.  Still a birdie, and birdie next hole.  And after that we make par until 18.  We make a birdie chance but yeah, the pin position on the last few holes are going to be tough.  You have to have the right pace to putt.   
But the pins is very, very difficult.  The greens is tricky, a lot of sand and bumpy.  Afternoon is going to be very tough to putt.  I recommend afternoon is going to be very, very difficult to putt.   
 Q.  So you think you're going to still be very close to competitive come the end of day?  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, one more day tomorrow.  I think they are going to shoot more under par today.  I think Justin Rose is going to be in form and a couple guys play well today.  For me, I think really enjoy.  That's a good thing for me.  Tomorrow, going to try my best anyway, one more round tomorrow.   
 Q.  We know you play well around the world, indeed, win around the world; in Germany, very recently.  But do you find it just a little bit more comfortable coming back to this part of the world?  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, after I won in Germany, make me very confident in my game, even putting.  I hit irons no complaints.  But the key is you have to know the green; that's why you make more confidence on the greens.  If you make good confidence on the greens, then you can play very good golf.  One week, we have to be everything perfect, going to be a chance to win.   
 Q.  Nice to play with the sun on your back and a bit of heat?  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, I'm okay.  A little bit warm.  I don't mind it's for me.  I'm used to a lot of weather like this.  For me, I enjoy playing in it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT