ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 4, 2015
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Last night had a good sleep, been very tired yesterday because we had to spend a long day yesterday.   We come this morning and we felt it was so fast.   My sickness is getting better.   
Otherwise today, gave me a chance, hit a lot of fairways and hit a lot of good shots and make a lot of good putts also.   A couple holes hitting good and a couple holes putting well.   Like 1 start, hit about 12 to 20 feet and make it from there for birdie and 4, again we make birdie.   We hit a lot of good shots from there, six in a row, that's what makes me more confidence.   Bogey on 8, missed the putt, probably three or four feet.   
Birdie chance on 9.   Again, we miss it and birdie chance on 10, miss it.   Birdie chance on 11, miss it.   12, it's good chance.   We had about four and five feet, make birdie on 12.   13 is okay, lipout, chip‑in from the left side.   Missed lipout.   
14, hit good drive, 5‑wood over the green and try to get birdie but we miss it.   
15, very good putt on 15.   Birdie on 15, and 16, short putt, miss it for par.   And then 17 and 18 is very tough on 17 and 18 today.   
That's why make me a chance and try to get my confidence back about putting.   A couple hole short putts, a couple hole long putts, mix this week.   The key chance for me this week, the putts, we make a lot of bogey on par 3 and make double‑bogey on par 3.   The par 4 and par 5 are pretty good for me.  
   
 Q.   You told us last week in Germany about your illness and how you were really not playing at your best by any means.   So with this good night's sleep are you feeling close to 100 percent?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Yeah, almost.   We have to take about another 20 percent.   That's why this week, we have very good sleep, except yesterday, we have not good enough time to sleep because we finish late and come back to the hotel, maybe half past 11 sleep and wake up again at half past five.   It's going to try to get better.   
Last night is fantastic sleep for me.   I getting tired, sleep about eight hours last night, and then putting, schedule, it's good time to start between 10 to 11.   Otherwise you are not very hot when you start.   
   
 Q.   Are you enjoying the heat and sunshine?   You're a bit more used to it than most players out here?  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Exactly, because Thailand the weather is almost like that in the summer.   In the summer the weather is more hot like this.   For me, I can use it, weather like this.   I like to play weather like this.   I know it's still too hot but it's any natural, in my home country, we play like this.   Enjoy to play here, that's more important and also enjoy the golf course.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT