BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 26, 2015
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I played great today.   Putting getting better.   Couple mistakes.   Very good up‑and‑down anyway.   The golf course is fantastic.   The greens is so good.   Anyway you can see the score.   It's fantastic.   I think this week going to be‑‑ it's going to be low score.   I wouldn't mind playing the golf course‑‑ I think my performance right now is getting better, putting. 
But I think three weeks now‑‑ we have to rest a little bit.   Very tired now.   I try to keep my body stable but very sick.   Try to do something about for make some power back, but still a little bit loose and no power, not like hundred per cent.   Feel only 50 per cent, hitting the ball, some control, some not. 
9‑under is very good for me, very good start for first two rounds.   I think it's a golf course, it's difficult to say, just play your own game, that's most important.

Q.   I was going to ask about energy levels because it's a long trip to come back from Seattle, nine‑hour difference on the time.   Does that mean you're running out of steam later on in the day?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I think for me, I adjust, and anything, the timing no problem.   The only thing, very sick.   Started in Sweden.   Been in hospital four or five days after Sweden, and on Sunday, we went back home and then straight to the hospital, about four and five days, and then came back and fly over to America. 
Still, it's difficult.   But I cannot sleep last week because the time is a lot different, about 14 hours from my home.   And we come here, nine hours.   I think is different. 
This week is good, I think I have sleep and no jet‑lag.   We try to recover.   Still a little bit better than last week.   I try to get improve my feeling back.   Still but something stuck in my nose and try to get back to my normal.   Anyway, it's good be to back for two rounds and at 9‑under par. 

Q.   I have to ask what the doctors have said if you were in hospital that long.   What's the diagnosis? 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   It's just flu, like not heat in my body.   Something in side, you have to try to get anything, injection, put something like an energy.   Still better, but in the hospital, I think difficult, because we not got not enough time.   We have to go.   Otherwise we try to improve when I get to America but still not completely.   It's very loose and then lose everything.   Cannot sleep and no power to play in that course.   You have to concentrate I think the course.   The course so difficult last week.   For me I hit the ball great but the only thing is putting is difficult. 
This week I try to get my chance in I way.   Three behind, going to be two more days.   I don't mind, play my own game and look forward to tomorrow and Sunday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT