UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 10, 2016
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How did you get on today?  Unfortunate to bogey the last.
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I played well all day, but a few putts, cannot putt well, 3-putt on the last hole.  The feeling of pressure on my putting, sometimes into the greens, I couldn't judge the distance and sometimes I read wrong.
Last one I definitely read wrong and we push a little bit.  Only two bogeys today, I'm fine.  We had a lot of chances today.  We can't make anything, like normally we're putting well. But just only this week, putts not confident.  I tried to adjust putting, but definitely not.
Q. And still close to the leaders for tomorrow.  What's the plan going in?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: You never know, you can shoot a low score tomorrow.  You can shoot 10-under, 9-under, whatever tomorrow, giving me a chance for tomorrow; another day.  I know I've got a problem with the putting, but tomorrow, anything can happen.
Q. The ball moves on the 18th fairway.  Tell us about it.
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: We have to move on the side in front, inside the water in the lake, because we can't move over because we have to keep the ball low, otherwise the ball is -- I have to remove and drop it and then the ball's still moving down to the fairway -- two-shot penalty.  It's okay, it doesn't move.  It's the rule.  Sometimes we get wrong and this one I think is not.
Q. Is the condition of the golf course changing every day?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: This year, the best condition we have but the pin positions were very tough on the back nine.  You can see 18, you can see the pin on the back nine, never see any pin like this on the back nine, even like 14, even like 16, even like 17, both of them, maybe different angle.  But 18, also, I think very, very difficult on 18.  Unfortunately putting not very good on 18.
Q. Looks like if you manage to keep up the good work tomorrow, you're on course for a qualification for the U.S. Masters.
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, you know, anyway, right now in good position for me, inside Top-10.  Going to be move up tomorrow, I know my feeling very good with iron play but tomorrow we try to get my feeling back about the putting.  That's why going to be very challenge for tomorrow.
Q. Are you going to spend some time on the putting green?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Hopefully a little bit, but the pressure on to keep my dream back and tomorrow I'm going to wake up, we're going to be putting well today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT