PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 8, 2014
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How much are you looking forward to playing here in Portugal this week?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I think it's‑‑ I didn't come last year.   I came this year.   I like the weather, it's good, and the golf course is good, too.   I love to come here to play and I enjoy to play here.   
This week, I think it's very good weather.   I hope it's very good weather.   Going to be a couple days going to be raining.   I enjoy it and I love to come here.  
   
 Q.   Warmer than in Scotland last week?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Oh, it's definitely different.   Last week, I know in Scotland, they can be rain and wind normally.   I don't mind, you know, I learn there's so many things what I can do.   I love to play golf.   That's why I don't care if it rains, I play.   
   
 Q.   How do you assess your season as a whole?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I think I prefer this year.   I think it's a very good year in my life.   This year, very good year, and I think performing, I mean, it's very consistent this year.   I think it's very good for me.   And then my age, I turn 45 next month, and getting old, try to get my best, anyway.   Try to improve, make my body stronger and also improve my golf game also.  
   
 Q.   Looking back at the history of this tournament, ninth is your best finish here.   What's it going to take to shoot low scores?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I think a couple holes, they change it, the par5 becomes a par 4 this year.   I know last year I heard about hole No. 3, they move to par 4, normally a par 5.   That's the thing for me, I like to play the course.   The course, it's very good.   
I know I haven't played the course yet.   Today is the first day this week to come to the force.   I practiced yesterday and I never come to the course yet and I look forward for today and what's going on today.   
It's very challenging, the course.   I prefer like 17 and 18, it's very tough finish.   I think the course, I don't mind the scores low or high.   I think it's consistent.   I prefer the course, it's a very good design and very challenging.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT