UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 9, 2016
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Looks like it was another solid round.  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: No complaints.  My game, struggled with the putting.  We couldn't hole any short putts.  Leaderboard, going to be really easy to get on the top but unfortunately couldn't putt well.  Like No. 5, No. 9, we missed all our short putts for birdie.   
I mean, yeah, I'm very confident with my iron play and definitely struggling with putting because greens so difficult.  Some of the grains, some are downhill, downgrain are going to be very tough to putt and very difficult to control the distance, as well.   
I mean, yeah, I know I've been here many years, especially this year, the golf course is fantastic, no complaints, everything.  Only thing the pin is very difficult on the back nine.  We can see the pin position on the back nine is going to be tough.  You have to be in the right position to putt.   
 Q.  You're right in the hunt and only a few shots behind the leaders now.  Looking to the weekend, do you think you'll change your strategy a little bit?  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: No, my game is same every day.  We do try to do a lot like tee shot.  Very important, you hit tee to fairway, you keep the ball in play on the fairway, going to be okay.  If you're missing the fairway, going to be difficult because the green is firm.  The rough is very fine, don't have any spin.   
The ball, it keep rolling, very difficult if you don't find any fairway.  The golf course, especially this golf course, even if more rough, going to be tough.  This year, going to be less rough but it's okay.  Fair enough, because the greens getting firm.  Going to be difficult if you're missing fairways.   
For me, I think it's a putting contest this week.   
 Q.  Liang Wen-Chong said you're his idol.  What do you say to that?  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: He's a friend of mine.  He's a former No. 1 in China.  I think he's a good player.  I've played with him many years.  I thank him for his comment.  I have a lot of friends from China and he's a good player.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT