EURASIA CUP PRESENTED BY DRB-HICOM
March 29, 2014
Thongchai Jaidee
Hideto Tanihara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I take it that's a very exciting finish for you. 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Yeah, I would like put hands together with our team, very good match today.   Every part of my team was unbelievable to come back, fantastic.   My first time here in the EurAsia Cup, I would like to say thanks to all my team and the staff and work with them and they do a good job, and we are excited. 
Everyone played really well.   I think the match is unbelievable, I think good finish.   To end on the last, and on the 18th hole, it's fantastic.   I never see the match like this.   It's very close and amazing. 

Q.   I know you were still positive after 5‑0 on the first day but this is a remarkable score. 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   The first thing I would like to say, because we had a good draw and good pairings, I think that's the key point.   I don't mind lose.   I told all my team, we have to be win or lose‑‑ try to win the trophy, that's the key point.   That's the main thing, lose or win, try to get win.   If not, not possible, that's the key point and also it's my team, I would like to putt their hand together, fantastic event.   Also very happy with all the team. 
HIDETO TANIHARA:   We knew that it was almost tied‑‑ it was exciting and we just had to play really strong down to the end.

Q.   How was the heart rate? 
HIDETO TANIHARA:   Very high.   Really high. 

Q.   Honestly, how does it compare to playing in a normal event, because you won't have this kind of situation all that often in your life. 
HIDETO TANIHARA:   There's not much match play over in Japan.   There's actually none.   We are here to play golf and we just had to stay really strong and it was a good experience. 

Q.   Do you like this team event?   You'll play it as often as you can from now on? 
HIDETO TANIHARA:   It's not my first event in a team before, so I knew everybody and it was easy to get along and it was really fun being here.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT