EURASIA CUP PRESENTED BY DRB-HICOM
March 27, 2014
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:   Thongchai, thanks for joining us this afternoon.   Obviously not the result you wanted from the first day.   Just give us your opening remarks and summary of the day. 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I would say actually Europe is very strong today.   We played with Miguel the first match, he made a lot of‑‑ I played well, about 8‑under par today, but he played about 11‑under. 
At the start I tried to make some point but finally, you know, we lose all the match.   We try again tomorrow and we change our game plan tomorrow, we change all the people, all the players different tomorrow except myself.   We will work really hard tomorrow and have good planning and also change the players and hope the result will be‑‑ Europe was very strong today and played so well, and so we lose our match.   Anyway, they are very strong. 

Q.   What have you said to your players in the team room?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Just said for tomorrow, I know today we lost and tomorrow we make some point tomorrow and maybe we can win our match.   I think I don't really‑‑ not easy tomorrow but that's why‑‑ all the players break up tomorrow and we put something together to get some points back. 
You never know, tomorrow Europe, you can see the result, they played so well today, they made a lot of birdies and a lot of eagles.   The course is good, if you keep the ball on the fairway, it's easy to attack the pin.   And also, the putts are so well today.   You see Miguel putting unbelievable today. 

Q.   A lot of your team members missed a lot of fairways and greens and that put a lot of pressure, is that something you will advise to them? 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   No, because the golf course‑‑ the weather change our players, it's so hot.   But Europe, they are very strong.   My players, they very good but just something, mistake in‑‑ they have very good birdies, and they have very good team work. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Yeah, why not, tomorrow, because today we lose all the match.   Tomorrow, we try to keep up and thinking about make some points, maybe we have some points back tomorrow before the single.   The thing is tomorrow we have change in format a little bit.   I think that we makeup something, we can be better. 

Q.   The message was to have fun‑‑ so is that the same message today, for tomorrow, as well? 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I know from our players, they‑‑ The European Team, they have more experience than our team.   I would like to let them to play and make them comfortable and then also enjoy the golf game.   You know, Europe, they play so well, you're going have to play‑‑ Miguel was amazing today, he make a lot of good putts, he make everything, good driver, don't miss anything.   Miguel is very solid.   The rest of them is very solid, very good team. 

Q.   How about your game today?   Did you have fun? 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Yeah, I had‑‑ started on the back nine‑‑ but four birdies on the front nine, and we had 8‑under or 9‑under, my team, and then Miguel had about 11‑ or 12‑under. 
But tomorrow, there are two more days to work with my team. 

Q.   What did you think of Nicholas? 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Oh, he played well today, except last two holes, he lost on 16.   He did well, 3‑up after seven, and then he lost on 8 and 9 because the guy putting, he made some. 
I think Nicholas, he played well, he played a lot of time here.   I think tomorrow, I think he's going to be better tomorrow.   But you know, today, Europe, they are very strong, putting very well, and they don't miss anything.   That's why we lose. 

Q.   Will the foursome format be helpful for the Asian team to get points back tomorrow?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Foursome, alternate‑shot, it's a tough, tough‑‑ I think it's not easier than the four‑ball.   You have like different game, not your own game, you have to play like alternates.   Sometimes hit very well, sometimes hit very bad.   You never know, something can happen tomorrow.   This one, very hard to play.   I think we are going to be steady and we are going to be both team working together for the putter.   Have to be concentrate and also solid game and you don't miss anything.   Anything you don't miss tomorrow, you have to be solid and putting well all together, it will be really‑‑ I cannot expect tomorrow‑‑ I know Europe, they have more players tomorrow, we would like to not put my players under pressure, enjoy the game and working with yourself and your partner and I think I leave that tomorrow.   That's the key I tell my team. 
Changing the plan a little bit.   I think we change about three group tomorrow, different plan, different players.   I think it will be nice tomorrow, yeah.   Our plan before already, but just changed last minute to put the draw today.   Something happened, not comfortable a little bit.   Otherwise, I plan one month already, I put who going to be first and second.   Tomorrow is going to be fun.   Nice work tomorrow. 
Look forward, anyway, every day.   Still, two more days for me, yeah, the first time my captain, yeah.   We working very hard with our Royal Trophy captain and all my team.   Europe, they have more players than us, they do a lot of time like this, and like The Ryder Cup, Miguel, they have more experience. 
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT