UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 8, 2016
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How did that 3-under feel?  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I played a solid day today.  I hit a lot of greens.  Don't miss much on the fairways.  Only two fairways missing, just fringe.  We had a solid, solid round today.  I never hit like this since my two months ago.  I had a solid round today.  Never miss a green.  I hit a lot of greens, 16 greens today.  Certainly two holes, missed just front edge and I think I never see in my golf swing like this, in two or three, four months.  That's why we catch up a little bit.  We had a new iron, anyway, this week.   
 Q.  Did you do anything to change?  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I have a new ball this week, first week.  That's why I'm confident with this ball, give me a little more trajectory and hit the ball higher and land softer.  I think the good thing about the ball is it gives me five yards longer than normal and I think more carry and soft feel, very confident.  We had a new iron together, makes me like more confident.  That's why makes me -- something happens with putting.   
Putting is very difficult to read.  I hit a lot of good shots, should be 3- or 4-under, like five-hole start, but unfortunately don't putt well.   
 Q.  You've been here many, many years in Hong Kong and you've had many good results.  Do you feel like every time you come here, you always play well and have confidence to putt in some good numbers?  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yes, sir, because we know the course very well, the first thing.  Other thing, we confident we shape the shots on this golf course.  You don't need to hit a lot of driver.  That's why you have to shape because the fairway is very tight and gives me very confident to play the golf course.   
On the green is very important, because the pins very tight today.  The pins are so tough on the back nine.  That's why you can see the score, not make very many low score the first round.  Normally you can see 7 and 8, but the golf course condition is fantastic.  No complaints at all.   
 Q.  The last few months, have you really been disappointed with your results and your game?  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: That's why, you know, we struggle in putting, and the long game a little bit.  We couldn't make any consistent back but today, completely this today is a lot different.  You can feel, you know, we hit a lot of greens.  You don't make any 3-putts -- even my par 5, I have two on, anyway.  I'm confident catch up a little bit the next three days.   
 Q.  This wouldn't be a bad event for you to finish the year strongly.  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I try to.  I know I have to play well this week to finish in the Top-50 in the World Ranking to get in the Masters.  I don't put pressure on.  I do my game and I try to get my confidence, like hit the ball to the fairway and then hit on the green, make the putt.  The putting, putting well can be low score.  If not well, then we try again my best.   
 Q.  How pleased are you to see the UBS Hong Kong Open grow into this big tournament that we have here today?  I'm sure you've seen the improvements every year, right?  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I've been here many years.  Started to play here since I think 1999.  Start every year, definitely.  We've been here more than ten years.  I think I know UBS is very important, a lot of events for golf.  They know how to see all the players, and you can see all the crowd, the support for the tournament.  You can see how they improved.  That's why a lot of the players come to support this tournament.   
 Q.  And how about the golf course?  Some players are saying that this is the best condition they have seen Fanling.  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yes, I agree, because this time it's more cool and the golf course had good maintenance.  I think before the golf course had bad weather, but this week is a good time for this tournament.  The weather is nice, cool and I think everyone is so happy to be here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT