ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
August 27, 2013
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Some very fine memories must come back to your mind being here in a place where you've played so nicely last year?  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Yeah, from last year, yeah, it's going to be tough for everyone.   I remember when I won last year, I really remember that time, come to more than one year, I think look back, it can be totally different now.   The course, it looks very good right now.   The green is good.   The condition is fantastic right now.   
I think the weather is better than last year.   The most important thing is my game is very confident right now, played quite well the last week, a couple dayspracticing.   I think looking back now, going to try to get my golf game improved like last year.  
I know the golf is not easy, you expect, you want to play well every week.   You try, and it's very important you have everything, confident.   For me, I don't mind, I play well, not well, but try is very important for me.   If in a position, keep trying my best.  
   
 Q.   At the moment, is it a question of confidence?   You've been playing very nice through the year, you were second at the Volvo World Match Play, how is the game right now?  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I think it's on and off.   We travel everywhere in the world, play in America, different weather, different conditions in America.   The pace, the greens, I couldn't pick it up so fast.   But I try, and I think my confidence is coming back in Europe, give me confidence and I know the courses, I play a lot in Europe.   I know the courses quite well in America, otherwise ‑‑ look, it's different, America, too.   The conditions a little bit different.   Setup is a bit different.   I think quite hard in America I feel.   I come back to Europe, like a home right now.   
Anyway, my golf game, hard to get a little bit improved for putting.   I think the putting has got to be better than the last time, some work with my equipment, like the driver going to be improved for this week and a good chance, and if not ‑‑ anyway.   
   
 Q.   You just mentioned playing golf around the world and that brings up The Presidents Cup which is the last week for you to qualify and you're a very potential candidate to play on the International Team?  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Yeah, I think it's going to be announced this week after The Wales Open, next Wednesday.   
For me, I think it gives me a good chance, one more week, if I play well, get into Top‑10.   But if not, I don't know what's going on.   I'm trying; my thing is play well this week, and if not, no problem, another tournament to get Top‑50 in the World Ranking, anyway.   That's my key goal for the year, Top‑50 in the World Ranking, before I get time off another year, that's a key goal for me.   If not Presidents Cup, if not, no problem.   I think for the next two years, try next two years.   This time it's very close.   Try this week, one more week.   Going to be a good chance to play a Top‑5, maybe can get in for The Presidents Cup.   
   
 Q.   What does it feel like coming back, defending champion of this Wales Open?  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I'm trying to get this one back again.   The course looks nice and the weather hopefully better than last year.   Different time right now, I think perfect time this time.   I think it's going to be fun this week.   
My feeling is very well, I played quite good last week, but come this week, try different again.   I think it's going to be a good challenge anyway.   I think I love the course.   The course I think right now is fantastic.   I played a couple holes in the course, about five or six, and the greens is much better than last year I think.   
It looks great, and my golf game right now, getting better.   Golf, you never know.   Try my best anyway.  
   
 Q.   What is it about this course that you think suits your game?  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   The thing is the course is fine.   I think the course is quite hard.   I think a couple holes, very strong, 12, 13, 14, and then 16, 17, and 18 is challenging.   I love the golf more challenging.   I think everyone, don't miss anything.   You have to hit perfect shot, everything.   Had a good tee shot, good iron, good putt and it's going to be improved for that week.   
The most important this course, you don't miss anything.   So you miss‑‑ I mean, green, irons, everything, going to be a problem.   Greens going to be very tricky.   You don't miss anything much, just hit and play, I think is perfect.   Perfect tee shot, perfect iron, make some good putts, I think some good chance.   
   
 Q.   You talk about coming here with confidence.   How much extra do you think it gives you coming back here, having won here last year, is that like an extra boost, five or ten percent in the game?  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I remember last year, I think the condition is tough, we have cold and wind.   This time, it looks perfect.   Everyone going to be‑‑ everyone open for everyone, good chance to win the tournament.   I try my best anyway.   I look forward to what's going on in the future.   
My performing right now is confident, putting is getting better, I am getting better.   A couple times, I think it's equipment for me, with new equipment for the clubhead, driver is going to make me a little bit different feel I think to try to improve for this week I think.   
Anyway, I like to come back to play in Wales Open anyway.   I think it's a very good tournament, and then quite a few players play this tournament again.   I hope this weather is good for the tournament this week.   
   
 Q.   Last week for you to try to qualify for The Presidents Cup team; how much pressure are you putting on yourself and how much are you having that in mind when you're here this week?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I don't mind to get in or not.   I try to get my thing in the position.   Now we have one more week this week.   I think there's no one in my home country, never played The Presidents Cup before, and this time good chance, and if it's not possible, I get in my schedule back anyway‑‑ this time, it's very close.   One more week this week, and I got a pressure or not ‑‑ I think it's not hard; I think if you play well, you are going to be in the Top‑10, and it's going to be okay.   If you are worse than that, I think not ‑‑ if not possible, I think good try.   Don't give me any pressure on my golf game.   
I think I played well the last couple of weeks we have.   But if I get in there, The Presidents Cup is good for my country and we look forward for this week and what's going on this week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT