UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 7, 2016
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just your thoughts, playing in the Hong Kong Open this week, how do you feel?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I feel great.  Even last week, we spent a lot of time with my own tournament last week, very fun last week.  A lot of feedback is very good.  We had a really good condition on the golf course.  We had a lot of challenge.  The conditions is quite tough last week.
This week, my feeling, getting tired last week, but become this week, hopefully we catch up a little bit.  We like the course.  I played the Pro-Am this morning.  The course is like very good.  The green is good, roll very fast.  I mean, you know, I've been here many years.  The course, nothing change, everything, you have to find the fairway and put the ball in play.
Q. Last week you didn't play any golf.  Must be nice to come back here and challenge for the trophy, isn't it?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Of course, we tried to get my best this week.  Even I have to catch up Top-50 in the World Ranking to be in the Masters next year.  That's a target to be top five, Top-10.  We've got to be ready to be off.  I don't mind playing well.  I think the people in front me, I try to get the win is great for me.
Q. How is your game feeling?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Still a little bit struggling with putting.  Getting better and we feel better now because we have so many rounds of golf.  We have 12 weeks, only five days off, and then last week we have my own tournament.  This week, maybe going to make me more like confident.  I like to play this course anyway.
Q. Coming here, you've enjoyed some good results.  Give you some good confidence for the week?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, we have a good thing about tee to fairway.  You have to keep the ball in play.  That's why you can't miss any fairways.  If you miss it, going to be tough to play.  But this golf course, anyone open.  Not even who are long hitters, but this golf course, you have to keep the ball in play.  You can have like wedge play and then putting challenge.
Q. This is probably your last event for the year.  How has the year been for you so far?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I'm really happy.  My year, if the World Ranking, it drop down, I don't mind.  Really difficult to keep my World Ranking and stay on.  But I won every year.  I've enjoyed that this year, another very, very good year.  We have win one big event, and otherwise, not many Top-10s, but still make me a chance like enjoy the tournaments.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT