ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 19, 2013
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I'm very happy with my game today.   I hit driver and no complaints.   Just a couple irons I missed, I get up‑and‑down from somewhere, like the bunker, like the short game.   I hit a lot of greens today anyway but most important today, putting is very good.
I change to my short putter today, new putter, and I think confidence is very nice.   I think that's most important thing is sometimes you have that bad feeling, and like putting‑‑ because this green is very fast, short putts can be much easy to control and that's the most important. 
Yesterday, I had two holes, 3‑putt, and today nothing.   I make a lot of good putts today, like 5 and 6 feet, and it's very confident, otherwise we have 6‑under today. 
Anyway, putting is very important.   Sometimes you hit a lot of greens, you putt nothing, the score is simple.   Just today I make a lot of putts.   I hit a lot of greens.   I hit a lot of fairways.   That makes me a lot of confidence today. 

Q.   Well, it can be a brave decision to change the putter, particularly during a tournament, so do you feel very comfortable with the new stick?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Sometimes, I think the feeling, if you make the feeling very well, like I practise on the putting green, you feeling very well‑‑ I think the thing today, I speak to my caddie today, I try my best today, very well today, and otherwise, very happy with my score, 6‑under today. 

Q.   Is it easy out there?   Because it has not been for two days, but today there's a lot of low scores?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Because, you know, the condition is so good, like not very windy today, otherwise the wind is same direction like yesterday. 
Then I think it's fantastic, you know, good for play golf otherwise, if the wind blows like Wednesday, it's going to be tough.   It depends, the wind condition, this course, the setup is quite tough already, depend on wind direction.   Wind is also hard on this course. 

Q.   You're well placed on the leaderboard?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I think I play my own game for tomorrow.   I think my position‑‑ I try my best tomorrow, have a good sleep tonight and then come, work again tomorrow, that's my plan. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT