VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 11, 2013
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your thoughts on round two? 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Very good, played solid again today.   I hit a lot of greens today and hit a lot of greens, just a couple holes missed the putts.   Still okay to have two holes long putts, even on 8.   You had opportunity to putt from off the green and make a few putts eagle and birdie. 
Only one bad hole on 9, bogey at 9.   Otherwise, today lucky we got no wind.   Gave myself a lot of chances to play well.   Played 4‑under par today.   In two days really enjoy my golf here and look forward to the next two rounds.

Q.   How strange this game can be, unfortunately a lovely day and you can't score as well as the first day?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Golf, you know, I enjoy myself here, I enjoy the golf course, enjoy my life and that's most important.   I hit the ball quite well and nothing happened today, just a couple really very tough putts.   Difficult to read the lines and that's most important.   Just only one thing, wind direction and couple heavy rains otherwise I think that's going to be quite easy.   4‑under par good for next two rounds. 
Putting well and I hit the ball very well, also, and Scott also played very well.   I saw both of them made 8‑under par today.   I enjoy tomorrow, another day, try to do my best tomorrow. 

Q.   And you also had an amateur tournament today and you won a car.   How was your round with your amateur?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   You know, when I started I didn't know that we were playing with amateurs today in a team, I didn't know the rules. Louis said on 8that we have a chance to win the car so then I was thinking aboutit. I just play okayand everyone enjoyed it.

Q.   Is it a nice surprise?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Yeah, to win the caris a very nice surprise.

Q.   Did you enjoy playing with the amateur? 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Yeah, my team played really well.   We enjoyed and played well.   Played solid, we need a couple holes for birdie, but a couple holes he make long putts and he holed a couple, yeah.   I enjoy the amateur and he's very good amateur. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT