ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
June 3, 2012
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SARAH GWYNN:   Congratulations, just sum up what you're feeling right now.  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Yeah, thank you very much.   Special week for this week because with the conditions, it's so tough today.   You know, I really enjoyed it, and also keep trying my best.   
You know, I played so well for almost two years after I played well in 2008.   And then after that, my back injury, I come back for this year and going to be special week this week, exactly, because the weather like this.   For my country, I never have weather like this.   It's a special week for me.   I think you need some luck for win and this one, I think I prefer luck; luck is gift, main thing to win for me for today.   I really enjoy that, yeah.   
SARAH GWYNN:   When you had the double bogey on the 9th, did you think your chance was gone or did you still have hope that you would win?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I think we have No. 9, second shot, we tried to get lay up because my grip is slipping, hit very bad, ball straight to the bunker.   It's not my way.   Bad shot, had 8‑iron from the bunker because I tried to take it high and hit behind the ball, pulled left into the OB.   That's okay.   I think it's not bad.   Try to hit another ball.   Hit very good, made very good 2‑putt from that.   Good double‑bogey on that hole.   
Lose three shots for nine holes, try to get ‑‑ I think 10 is tough hole out there because we have no club.   We have maximum long iron, 4‑iron.   We hit a 5‑wood about 200 yards into the wind and hit very good 5‑wood about four feet close to the pin.   Yeah, otherwise, back to 11 and 12, birdie and birdie.   
Yeah, it's tough on 12.   Hit a very good shot on 12, a 4‑iron and make a good birdie.   
   
 Q.   How close was that 4‑iron shot on the 12th?   How long a putt?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I think it would be about 18 feet, something like that.   
   
 Q.   And the putt on the 11th?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   11 is about I think ten feet, something like that.   
   
 Q.   And can you explain what part of your game is so good for the whole of the week?   What won this tournament for you?  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I think the main thing, I'm trying to get my form, my in‑form back.   I'm so bad; I hit the ball so bad a couple months ago, three months ago, I'm never getting better.   Now the main thing, the putting is very challenging, but this week also.   I got new irons especially this week, new irons this week.   
   
 Q.   New set of irons?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   New set of irons.   And then we try to use the long putter about four months, and worked for me this week.   I think the main key is everything you have to be mistake, not much.   Couple holes mistake is fine, but you miss a couple, you make easy double‑bogeys.   Like 12, you make a mistake, you get very easy to get double‑bogey and 14, 14 is a hard hole, otherwise‑‑ the back nine is very hard to play.   Back nine, you come to 16, 17, yeah, very tough to play on the back nine.  
   
 Q.   And can I ask you the length of your putt on the 15th, please?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   15, I think is about 18 feet, something like that.   
   
 Q.   Is this the best day of your career?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I think in these conditions, I think the best thing in my form, I think in Europe, with these conditions I never had these conditions in my life.   I mean, I have very good weather conditions, like windy and no rain.   This one, wind, rain and cold all tomorrow together, I think it's special week for me.   Special day for me also today.  
   
 Q.   This is good weather in Wales.   (Laughter).   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I heard the forecast when I practise on Monday.   They said the forecast on Wednesday going to be very bad.   Thursday is good the weather until Sunday.   The weather it change so fast.   I look at forecast every day, getting bad until today.   And today was ‑‑ every day okay.   Anyway, we win, very happy with my game.   
   
 Q.   Were you aware that Ross was penalised a shot when you were out there and that you were on the clock, as well?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   For me, I think I never had on the clock in my life.   I think one time in Korea because I had a problem withmy ‑‑ I know if they want to do it, I know if I play with somebody else.   
I try to get it‑‑ normally my natural is I never play slow normally.   Especially today, because the score is very close, I try to play like steady and thinking every shot, shot by shot.   Otherwise, mental, very important for this week, yeah.   Otherwise, you know, the course is very tough.   You know, the pin positions‑‑ today I think okay the pin positions a couple holes okay.   I think the mental game is very important also.   You need to be lucky also.   
   
 Q.   Were you a bit nervous coming down the last?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   A couple holes, depends if I'm nervous‑‑ how to maintain, I drink a lot of water.   You see if I get nervous, I drink a lot of water.     I think anyway in golf, everyone gets nervous for sure.   They don't tell you; they just keep quiet.   You can see my face that I get nervous, no.   I train a lot in the army; they give me a lot of pressure.   Now come to play golf, quite easy for me.   
   
 Q.   Going back to the slow play, did you think your group was being show, seeing John Paramor out there, were you worried that you could have picked up a penalty stroke?  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I don't think, so the penalty shot for that person, not everyone.   They know who is going to be slow.   They know who is going to be put, yeah, the timing.   
You know, difficult to tell.   They know how to play and they know, like these conditions, I think especially today, it's very difficult day.   Otherwise takes a long, long time, a couple holes, thinking about how to lay up, how to play.   I think it's very tough to tell.   
   
 Q.   Did you think it was a harsh call?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Yeah, very hard.   Very hard to make the time, also, because you know, the group in front is far away for us.   I'm behind schedule, and the rules, we have to be pushed a little bit.   You try to think like 12, 13, 14, I think they are tougher holes already.   Otherwise for me okay.  
   
 Q.   When you got the time, it certainly helped you because he was only one behind you at the time; it helped you that you knew at that stage‑‑  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Today I never know put on the clock.   The thing is I tried to make my game faster all the time.   I think it takes timingabout ‑‑ when I hit the shot, about at least 20 seconds, yeah, every shot, I hit, 20 seconds for sure, yeah.   I think for me it's okay.   You know, definitely they know how to put on the clock for somebody else.   They check, but for me it's fine.   
SARAH GWYNN:   Congratulations.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT