ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
June 2, 2012
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How does that feel for you?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Very good, very happy.   I have very good first hole, first start, very good.   Played very solid.   Only way I do my campaign, every hole, I think about what we can use, maybe driver or not a 3‑wood or 5‑wood or something like that.   
The thing is, the main thing on this course, you have to hit a lot of greens and some holes you have a good putt and it's okay.   I think I'm very good game plan for this yesterday and today.   Have a lot of good putts and very good irons, also.   Otherwise it give me a lot of good chance today, yeah.   
   
 Q.   How important is it for you to win over here, mainland Europe?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Yes, exactly.   That's a good question.   I try, I won a lot of times in Asia and I played a lot of times good in Asia.   In Europe, very important about me because the weather, it's going to be very difficult for me.   Now I've learned a lot of things, how to maintain, how to play with like these conditions.   
I think this time it's a very good chance.   You never know how it's going to be tomorrow.   I try to get my best and look forward tomorrow and then it's the game plan again for tomorrow, the main thing.  
   
 Q.   You're hit something big drives; it must be something you're eating.   Have you found yourself a nice little Thai restaurant in Wales?  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Yeah, on Thursday in Newport they have a quite good restaurant.   I've been there one time.   Last night, very tired, and eat in the hotel.   You know, the last one, I never know‑‑ I think the ball lands so much, I think 390 yards.   We had second shot, 7‑iron‑‑  
   
 Q.   410 yards.   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   390 yards.   
   
 Q.   We had it at 410.   It sounds better.   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   You play well tomorrow.   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Thank you very much.   
   
 Q.   Birdie at the end, nice way to finish a good round today.   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Very solid day today.   I had a good game plan.   I tried to make a lot of greens and hit a lot of pins.   I had some trouble at 13, I hit a good driver, and 14, I hit into the water with a good driver.   That's only one bad hole.   
I hit good and sometimes get luck, only one bad one.   And also, I had very good start, starting on the first hole, make birdie on the first hole and second hole, okay, and third hole going to be tough hole for me, par 3, going to be in the wind.   I hit a 7‑iron, bad 7‑iron, into the bunker and make a bogey on that hole.   
This course, you have to hit a lot of greens.   That's the main thing.   Anyway, if you have a good feeling for putting, depends what the ball position, where is it.   I have a lot of good irons, I have a lot of good shots.   But otherwise, quite good birdies today.   I have a lot of birdies today.   I have three bogeys and seven birdies today.   
You know, this course, depend the weather, if conditions like this, back nine going to be okay.   Front nine, like par 3, every hole going to be tough.   Anyway, I played like yesterday, better than yesterday, because today more birdies and look forward for tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   The players went massively over par in difficult conditions; do you think keeping yourself well in the hunt the first day has been the key to where you are now?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Yes, because now, I hit very good on the front nine.   I have 3‑under on the front nine.   I come to the back nine, I bogey 14 and 16 and 17 and come to even par.   Pretty good score for even par for first round.   Otherwise, afternoon going to be very windy in the afternoon, tough on the back nine.   
Today the wind change direction, and it's different.   Back nine going to be okay for today.   Depend on wind direction.   Now we play three different wind direction, you have to remain like a stone man mentally on the course.   You have to just play solid.   No need to play long, just play the fairway.   That's the main thing.   
   
 Q.   And it's currently a one‑shot lead.   So obviously a couple of people still out on the course.   Can you sniff your first victory in Europe?  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Yes, in here, being a leader for the first time in my life in Europe.   Tomorrow, what's going on tomorrow, I don't know.   Keep my game plan all the way.   I keep my game plan like this, good chance.   If I keep trying tomorrow anyway, I don't lose, anyway.   Play my own game and then play my own game and think about shot by shot and myself.   The best thing is to hit fairways, greens and putt, very important.   That's my key tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Your best?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Yeah, best driver today.   On right side, I don't know why my ball don't go in.   I think 320 yards is long for me.   I hit it so hard on that last hole, it had to be past the bunker.   Because it land so much, ground so hard and ball keep rolling.   Had 88 yards to the pin.   I tried to hit right on bunker, right side is fine.   I try to hit cut and went in the bunker and it's fine.  
   
 Q.   So you come to the top of the hill, were you sort of, is that my ball?  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I never seen my ball.   I said my shot on the right side, you see my ball‑‑ I thought, over there, okay.   That's the thing, it's forever, I think it's longer ever in my life, especially in Europe.   It's good for me.   
   
 Q.   How does a little man do it?   Is that something you're Army‑trained in?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   No, we have like equipment to get me the distance longer.   I hit it longer than last year because driver and ball.   They give me the distance and solid, also.   
   
 Q.   You said you went into Newport on Tuesday for a meal.   Was it a Thai restaurant?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Yeah, Thailand‑‑ I have to ask my caddie.   I forget the name.   I think Thailand Thara.   I forget.   
   
 Q.   Would it mean more to you to win on a course that's staged The Ryder Cup, as well?   Would that be something special winning on a course that only two years ago hosted The Ryder Cup?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I think it's tougher last year than before, the greens hard and firm, going to be tough, and you can see the score going to be easy to get up and down, up and down, lower and high, low and high, something like that.   Because today we got lucky, a lot of tees are forward.   Like 14 and a couple holes like at 9, a lot of holes have forward tees.   
I hit very good on 14.   It's going to be tough hole.   Depends, if forward tee it's good.   I like that design on 14.   It's okay.   I hit too good today, I went into the water.   
   
 Q.   Getting used to the weather?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   The weather like this, it's going to be nice.   Sometimes you get the wet and rain and cold come together, very difficult for me.   
   
 Q.   And you're fine here?  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I'm okay.   I try to use it as my‑‑ I learn a lot of things to do in Europe, about eight years now, I learn how to use it, rain gear, sweater, everything, yeah.   
   
 Q.   I've never asked you, the injury that ended your football career and you had something put through your foot, how did it happen?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   My ankle almost broke.  
   
 Q.   Something went into it?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I played soccer and the small wood, like barbecue, they put it inside my feet, stuck inside and I have operation to take it out.   
   
 Q.   You went to kick?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Because I don't use any like normal soccer, normal shoe.   Hit like this, hit underneath inside.   
   
 Q.   So you never played again?  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   No more.   I can play but not too good now.   Really careful my leg.   Still hurt in my ankle, left side.   
   
 Q.   Did you want to be a professional?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I tried but when I was about 16 to 18, it's too hard.   I broke my feet like this, feeling not very good.   
   
 Q.   You actually broke some bones?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   No, just pain.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT