ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
June 1, 2012
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I played solid today.   I hit a lot of greens and I hit a lot of 3-woods, not much drivers.   Couple holes, really dangerous, I placed myself, thinking about with my caddie how to play 5-iron, greens.   Hit a lot of greens, that's the main thing. 
We had a lot of good putts.   Like the last four, about 40 feet, more than 40 feet at the last one at No. 10.   It's very long.   But again, two putts for me is good.   Solid today. 
Yesterday a couple holes -- very good start and then a couple in trouble because it's tough yesterday and today, the weather is so good.   Not very much windy and I played very, very well, good game plan, that's the main thing.

Q.   You started nicely on the opening day, and then the winds built up, didn't they. 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Yes. 

Q.   And there's not the wind today. 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Today is completely different, like 16, 17, going to be different club.   Yesterday, No. 16, I hit a good driver and 3-wood short.   Today we had good drive on 16 again and then had about 6-iron, totally different, and 17, had a 7-iron, and yesterday a 5, so totally different. 
Also, you know, you have to know the weather, weather very important about wind direction, like yesterday in the afternoon.

Q.   You're in a wonderful position now. 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Yeah, make the cut, very happy.   If you play well, make some good putts, going to be a good chance.   I don't think about look at leaderboards, a couple hole, what the cut is.   If you look at the leaderboards a couple times, you know what you can maintain in your golf game. 
Some guys don't look at that leaderboard, I think there's no point.   For me, it's okay, if I miss the cut, fine for me, try next event.   I think today is very solid for me.   I'm very happy with that.   3-under is a very good score today. 

Q.   If you look at that board now, first time on The European Tour for a little while to see your name that high?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Yeah, long time ago, about a year and a half.   Very happy with that, look forward the next few days.   Anyway, very happy with that.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT