WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 4, 2011
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tell us how you played today?  
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I played very good today, same as yesterday. Had a couple short putts, and par putt on 15, made only one bogey today. We had four birdies and we miss on 17. Played solid today. Just a couple drivers did not work today, but it's okay, still 3-under. On the back nine, only hit one fairway back nine but it's okay. Very good for two rounds.   
 My thing with putting is confidence now.  
  
  Q. The birdie at the last, satisfying, as well, to move that score on?  
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I hit a very good driver and then hit a 4-iron. Anyway, I miss left, it's fine. The pin on the left, I had a good chance, I miss left, I don't want to attack on the right side, going to be dangerous.   
 I think it's a very good game plan. We miss, it's not far, just only in the rough, it's not far.   
 Today quite easy, you hit it in the fairway, it's quite easy to get close to the pin. The pins, a couple of holes are quite tough. I think 15 is going to be a challenging hole. You make bogey on 15. Difficult to hold the ball on the green.   
 I chip it very good, but putting, read the long lines, not enough to make a good line, otherwise the ball moves so much. That's okay.   
  
  Q. Am I right in thinking you like this heat and humidity we have today, as well, a bit more like home?  
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: What do you mean?   
  
  Q. How hot it is?  
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I'm okay. I'm enjoying, and today is my -- I tell you what, my confidence, I'm feeling very good confidence right now. Putting is work, and tomorrow I hope I can do better. I'm working hard with driver after a week of practise, a couple of hours and then have a rest. I think tomorrow and Sunday, going to be challenging. Look forward to keeping my game plan like this. Going to be very happy with that.   
  
  Q. How is the neck?  
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Getting better. I do the physio this morning. And I think it's getting better, because I think it's, the problem is that I think I sleep in very bad position. Getting better. I think tomorrow is going to be okay. If I do okay tomorrow, it can help me a lot. Yesterday I couldn't turn. Yesterday, a little bit better, but it's still okay, very -- 3-under today is very happy.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT