WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 3, 2011
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Very solid today. Bad start, couple of holes, first three holes, warm up. My neck in a bit of pain last night. Sleep is not very good.   
 I try to control my game, hit more fairway and greens. Very important, these greens quite difficult. Very lucky, pins are getting softer and you can attack the pin. The pin is firm. Like Tuesday, it's going to be very tough. The pin is quite tough today.   
 After that we come back on a couple of holes, good putt on the par 5 and very tough hole on 15. We make birdie on a tough hole. All of the tough holes I make birdie. It's good. We come back, back nine, played solid. I hit a lot of greens. Missed a couple of short putts, like a birdie shot, missing lines.   
 Last one, very good putt for par, very good line. I think getting better because putting very confident. Miss it not far, but a little bit, it's okay, good confidence.   
  
  Q. Is your neck feeling better as the round went on?   
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: No, have to see the physio again today, because no practise. Can't turn as much. Just try to get my short swing and just follow through and that's it. And then I can't turn much. Very good, but very good for control. I hit a lot of fairways from the back nine. I just miss for three holes, otherwise we come back a lot of good drives, a lot of good irons and putting is very confident.  
  
  Q. I take it this is a continuation, because we have been speaking a lot in the events on The European Tour recently. Your form has been coming?  
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I told you, last week, last three, I come back very good, getting better, all the time, trying to get better. Now this one, very big event this week. I try to get my game back. We need to be up in -- trying to get World Ranking moving up for The European Tour and the Asian Tour. I hope my play the next few days I can try to get better. I don't know, tomorrow, I'll try to get better. I think if my back is ready, it will be a good performance for now.  
  
  Q. Does it feel good to be back in this part of the world?  
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, I try. This one I try to get as concentrate my game right now.   
  
  Q. How are the floods back home, has it affected --  
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I came back in Thailand after the CIMB, only one day. Not one day -- I landed Sunday night and I didn't see anything. And we waited up -- I waited up early morning and in Bangkok we had a lot of functions to do. I have to do something for the Tour, and had about three hours of that. We drive up for three hours, and I don't see anything. I think it can be -- I think it's going to be right now -- in Bangkok, not sure where it is in Bangkok. They have outside of Bangkok going to be really bad.  
 I called my wife and she said it's going to be okay, my house is okay, some friends is okay, everyone is okay. You never know, the weather here is going to be very bad now, in Asia, everywhere in the world, the weather is going to be so much changing.   
 I hope the next few days the water is going to be clear a little bit. I think I saw on the news a couple of days ago that -- for Bangkok, it's going to be better.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT