TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 4, 2016
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Pleased with the way that you've played?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, absolutely.  We played well.  Anyway, we putting well and hitting the ball very good, better than yesterday, one shot better than yesterday.  I don't think I missed much today.  I hit a lot of perfect shots, that's why 5-under par, very happy today.
Q. Is that sweet to finish with a birdie?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, been thinking about the last hole, can't hit left and hit a good driver on the right side, had a little bit difficult lie, uphill lie and I think you take the cut -- normally hit a smooth 8-iron, it's perfect, and about four feet.  Good putt on that, also.  Anything this golf course, you missing fairway, it's okay, you can hit, but only thing you have to know where you can hit and you cannot miss, because the green is a lot of slope.
But anyway, the par 5, you can't miss on the par 5.  The thing is the par 4, you have a good tee shot, you have a good chance.  The par 4 is not very long, you have a good start and the front nine, you're going to be like 1 through 4, it's very easy.
But you come back a little bit on the back nine, going to be hard to play, like 10, very difficult.  You have to hit a good tee shot but anything, only one bogey today, and I think happy with my round today.
Q. Is this the best you've felt for a little while?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, this year, I think very solid round, compared with the French Open.  I played good in the French Open, very good, very consistent every day, but this week, going to look like now, really consistent for me.  Like really confident.  Putting well.  And the driver is still okay but you miss it's okay a little bit, you can hole from the rough to the green, but you can make the putt.  That's why I think the green is very good speed.  That's why we like the greens like this.
Q. I know it's only halfway stage for you, but when you look at the leaderboard and you see that Thorbjørn has pulled a little clear, what are your thoughts into the weekend?
THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I think two more rounds anyway, you can catch up.  If you play really well, why not, I try to give my best anyway.  Golf, two more rounds, going to try to get better and better.  Two more rounds, anything can happen.  I try my best anyway.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT