DUBAI WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DP WORLD
November 25, 2010
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  First Round 68 (-6)  
  
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Played very well today, 4-under, seven birdies and four bogeys. I'm putting very good for today. I feel very confident after last week. Feeling is coming back. Irons are getting better.   
 But the course, you have to know how to go. If you go into the bunker, it's tough to play because the bunker is so deep, and we never it get in the bunker today, it's lucky.   
 And you need some luck today. We had very solid today. We hit a lot of greens and a lot of good putts. That's why we got 4-under.  
  
  Q. You did say last week that the game was coming together, wasn't entirely at its best but I guess this is another step in the right direction.   
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, we are very, very important, because my confidence in putting is getting better. Iron is still better. I hit very good shots today, a lot of good shots we have, and one hole, two hole, long putts. Very good concentration today and had very good game plan, also. Also we work with my coach this week, my coach and caddie, and coach all together. Very good confidence for this week.   
  
  Q. Tell me about those long putts. What were the particularly good ones?  
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: On No. 3, we had a downhill putt. That's a good putt, also long putt, about 20, 23 feet, something like that.   
 And on No. 14, the same thing, 20, 20-something feet. That gives me a lot of confidence. And when you have a long putts -- like the last hole, I had a very good line, but short a little bit. Very good score.   
  
  Q. You were playing along side Noh, and he's leading the tournament.   
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, he played very solid and he had good putts, also. He has very solid play today. He missed on No. 1, but otherwise, he comes back. I think he made a good par on the first hole, and otherwise, he played really solid. Great green game and good putts, also.  
  
  Q. You used the word confidence yourself and he seems to have confidence and abundance, just steps up with the big players and no problem.   
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, very new generation. He hits the ball long, very long, and he's very solid about his game. He's putting so good today. That's why he makes no bogey and then he played very solid. He played very, very good today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT