UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 18, 2010
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  First Round 64 -6  
   
  Q. Tell us about your day.   
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, I played very well, started very good. We had four in a row, I missed a couple on the front nine. I started on the back nine and played very well. The back nine, becomes the front nine, very good. It's just make one 3-putt, and one bad hole on 15. Hit a bunker, plugged in the bunker and the chip, knocked it out. Good bogey from that hole, 15.   
  
  Q. The way you started with four birdies in a row, you must have been thinking, wow, this could be a really good day for you.   
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, I know the front nine, quite tough on the last couple holes. Like 6, 7, 8, 9, it's quite tough. And yeah, the front nine is quite tough.   
  
  Q. It seems like the putting is working?  
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, it's working, except one hole is bad. It's tough when you put uphill into the grain, it's tough to control the distance. I missed that one, putt so short, and miss again the lie is so grainy, sometimes difficult to read.  
  
  Q. Did you do anything different before you started this morning?   
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I think I prefer -- if I hit the ball on the fairway, I think my iron is getting better. Everything, iron is putting, coming back, because difficult to putt. Downhill, downgrain -- so uphill into the grain -- it's a good score, 4-under is a very good score. I'm very happy.   
  
  Q. I don't suppose you think 7-under was a really good round.   
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, very easy, hit on the fairway, I think you can clean up and then I think the score is perfect for this week. If they do all four days -- I think you have a chance to get anything, like the fairways, the grass is not growing a lot, grainy. Last year better than this year.  
  
  Q. Does it mean that for yourself, you have to shoot at least 4- or 5-under every day to really have a chance?  
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I think a good chance, I think if you shoot every day 4-under, that would be a good chance. 16-under, right.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT