BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 23, 2010
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CALVIN KOH: Thanks for coming in after a long day on the golf course. Give us assessment of your day today. 
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I played very well today, both rounds I played good, yesterday and today. I have a very good game plan today and also my putting is working this week and iron is very good for this week, because, you know, this wind is tough to play for on this course. Today is windy, all day it's getting very strong and gusting in the afternoon. 
 I'm trying to get, I mean, a good game plan like last year, I remember last year how to play with the course, hit the ball in the fairway and hit the ball on the green, and if you have a good putt, you can may a low score. 
 And today I have good irons and iron is working today and putting is working today. That's what give me a good score today. 
 CALVIN KOH: You got into a little bit of trouble on the 6th hole with a double-bogey. Can you share with us what went wrong? 
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: That hole is quite tough today. Hit a good drive and had 185 yards to the pin. The wind, you know, we have to hit into the wind, because we have no club, we have to use a 5-wood from that shot. 
 I hit it so bad because the line is so bad also, because my ball sitting between rough and fairway, we could not mark the ball. Tried to hit the ball low and I hit a bad shot from there, and then went back to the jungle and rescue. After that we have no shot and we try to get an unplayable from that but we have no point, and then we have to go back for same shot and I hit a second shot, we have only one, I think between two or three, I need to play out from that. 
 I hit very good out from that, also, and I have a very good double-bogey from that, very, very happy from that to make double-bogey. 
 CALVIN KOH: Can you share with us how you feel playing on Sunday now? 
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I'm okay playing the tournament. From this position, I still play, anyway, we have Sunday; tomorrow, day off, give me some rest and today very tired. We have 35 holes today. And I hope tomorrow we come back for practise a little bit. I think maybe hit on the driving range and putting and feel good and ready for Sunday. 
 This tournament, the weather you cannot expect. The weather can happen here. Okay, 54 holes, I will try to get better, I don't know if there is going to be wind. I will try to give it my best. 

 Q. Talk about hitting two birdies straight after?
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, I hit very good after that. I hit the ball very well. 7 hole, very good hole, we hit very good from second shot, and No. 8 hole, also we hit almost the same, about four feet and make a good putt. And last hole is a tough hole, par 5, not easy to play on the last hole, long par 5. We hit driver, 3-wood and sand wedge, not easy to play. If you don't hit in the bunker not a good chance, and you try to get on the green. Good putt on the last hole, very good score, five hole, and one double-bogey, seven birdies, bogey-free, very good score and I'm very happy with my score today. 

 Q. As defending champion, do you think you should be treated as defending champion, but we think this week it seems like not like that. 
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, we have three rounds for this tournament, not four rounds, and everybody at 6-under, 7-under, a lot at 6-under, everybody has a good chance this week. Depends tomorrow, they start another two rounds tomorrow, because tomorrow the guy is not playing yet, the leader on the third round is going to depend on the weather tomorrow and hopefully weather is getting better. 
 If weather gets very nice, you can get low score for tomorrow. You don't know what is going to be a good score tomorrow. I look forward on Sunday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT