WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 19, 2010
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LAURA HILL: We'd like to welcome Thongchai Jaidee to the interview room, your first appearance, and it seems to be going well. Talk about today's match.
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I played a very good game plan today. He didn't play well. I had a good start on two holes. I made a birdie on No. 1 and 2. Made a lot bogey, also, today. 
 He got only one birdie today on I think 13. He didn't play well. He had a lot of trouble, because match play not easy to tell who going to be to win. 
 I keep trying to hit the ball in the fairway, make it on the green and then making putt. The green is very tricky. If you have the good game plan going to be -- sometime you win, sometime you lose. 
 LAURA HILL: Does this exceed your expectations for your first start at this event? 
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I have -- on No. 5, he had a lot of trouble. Especially on the back, he pushed to the right side. I had a very good par from that hole. It's okay. Enjoy it. I like to play in here. Very good crowd. Very good spectator here, very good. 

 Q. Of some of the players that are still left, Sergio and Poulter and Casey, they might be more popular names out here than you are. What would you say to people who really don't know a lot about you going into the quarter finals tomorrow?
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: You know, I enjoy to play, you know, anybody. I like to play golf. I like to play the big tournament. This week I think great week for me. I have some -- I have, you know, three rounds, I play very well, that why give me the good for tomorrow. I think ready for tomorrow. I don't know -- keep trying for tomorrow. 

 Q. What's more nerve-wracking, playing match play or I read you used to parachute out of airplanes, too?
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Very different. Golf very easy to play, you know. When I join the Army, very hard work. I have lots of work by the Army. We have to run, we have to do everything, give me -- I come to play golf, quite easy.

 Q. This isn't stressful, compared to that?
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Golf is very nice, you know. Golf very easy, you know. But I know it not easy to win a tournament. I like to play my life, I love to play golf. I enjoy. And I never get angry when play bad, play good, I still very happy. 

 Q. Nick Faldo was saying in the broadcast that he was speaking to you on the range and that you have no game plan this week apart from going out, hit the fairways, hit the greens, hitting your putts?
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah. 

 Q. Have you ever been that peaceful in your game before and where does this come from? You obviously have no problems?
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: Yeah, you know, I learn with about -- I know the swing very important, you know. I training very hard with my coach. You can play under par, anyway, you don't look at my swing, any swing is not very important. Because now, you know, if you know a swing you can play under par, and don't think about the swing. You keep the game plan, make the tee shot, in the fairway, on the green, and then making putt. That's my plan. I never get any -- my thing is never think bad, you know? Thinking very good all the time.

 Q. You played very well in Dubai as well, you seem to just have an extended run of good form. Is that basically down to the work you've done on your putting?
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: My putting is -- my putting is so good now, getting better than last year, you know. Right now is try to get better than last year. 
 In Dubai, I play very well, also. I think that give me a lot of good chance, you know. I keep my feeling back, now, I don't scared anyway. Keep my game plan and then look forward for next day, anyway. Thank you. 

 Q. The biggest news in golf today was the first public appearance by Tiger Woods. He is part Thai. I'm curious the perception of your homeland and the last three months in regards to Tiger Woods?
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: You say again? I don't hear, sorry. 

 Q. How is Thailand perceiving what's been going on in this saga of Tiger Woods?
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: In Thailand, Tiger is very good player, No. 1 in the world. They worry about Tiger. They would like to see Tiger come back to play in golf now. Very exciting now. They try to look is Tiger playing golf, you know. They -- I have a lot of friend of mine he told me when Tiger would come to play golf, I have no idea, because I know the TV was today, this morning, I think soon he going to become, I think. The Thai people, they worry about Tiger. He can -- but difficult to tell, you know. They're not in Thailand in America, because Thai people, they love Tiger. All the kid, they would like to see Tiger come to play, enjoy the tournament because they look forward to see Tiger in the future.

 Q. Follow-up, did you watch his announcement this morning?
 THONGCHAI JAIDEE: I've been on the outside, I saw my friend, he told me about Tiger interview, I don't know what he said. I think he going to be come soon, I think. 
 LAURA HILL: Best of luck this weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT