NBA FINALS: LAKERS v CELTICS
June 4, 2008
James Posey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JAMES POSEY: I'm just trying to get on the floor and take advantage of the opportunities when I get out there.

 Q. How do you feel being in The Finals again? 
 JAMES POSEY: I feel focused, good concentration. You know you can't leave everything in the tank, and that's every game, you've got to leave everything out there on the floor, and you've just got to look at the big picture of what you're trying to accomplish and what you're willing to do to accomplish that. 

 Q. Talk about how much you're going to enjoy the experience of being in The Finals. 
 JAMES POSEY: I will enjoy it, but at the same time, it's business. You've got to take advantage of this opportunity because it's not given. At the end of the day it's about winning. You just think about that every time you step out there and leave everything out there and let the chips fall where they may. 

 Q. What's the mindset of the team been? 
 JAMES POSEY: As a team guys are very excited the past couple days, but at the same time they're focused and locked in. It's a big opportunity for us to win it, and, you know, it's going to take a lot of dedication and commitment, even more so than just in the regular season. You know, if you want to do it, just got to go out and get it. 

 Q. Would you rather have the 2-2-1-1-1 format? 
 JAMES POSEY: It really doesn't even matter. You just have to win games, either home or away, and that's the bottom line. 

 Q. When you think back to the way you first started, all the losing you had, and now you're going for your second ring, how has your career has changed in terms of going from lots of losing to lots of winning?
 JAMES POSEY: I've always considered myself a winner, and I've just been blessed and given an opportunity to, I guess, make it to the playoffs first when I was in Memphis and also getting traded to Miami and winning some games in the playoffs there and winning a championship. 
 I guess I think that having the opportunity to come back here was great and another opportunity to get another ring, as well.

 Q. How cool would that be, to win a ring with two different teams?
 JAMES POSEY: I mean, that's why you play, to win it all, to be a champion, and that's something that no one can take away from you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT