NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v CELTICS
May 21, 2008
James Posey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. As games go along and series go along, things get tougher. I'm sure you expect a much tougher game in Game 2 than in Game 1, not that you were expecting anything easy in Game 1.   
 JAMES POSEY: It's always tough. Anything can happen on any given night. Playing Detroit, you know, they've been there already. They're capable of coming back strong and we have to go out there and make sure we control what goes on out there.  
  
  Q. Talk about the adjustments you have to make in Game 2. Are they major adjustments?  
 JAMES POSEY: It's adjustments on the fly for the most part. They're going to make some adjustments, and we made some adjustments today, and during the course of the game you've also got to make adjustments. We just have to execute them when it happens.  
  
  Q. Are you surprised to see Detroit stay with their one-on-one schemes and play Pierce and Garnett mano-a-mano?   
 JAMES POSEY: They have their philosophies, and with each game it could change. I'm pretty sure they'll watch film, as well, and they'll try to do things differently tomorrow. We just have to be ready and expect it.  
  
  Q. Did you guys think about the fatigue at all, if it might set in, 15 games already?  
 JAMES POSEY: No. It's like a fresh start for us. Guys are extremely excited. You see them out here playing one-on-one, having a lot of energy. Guys are taking care of their bodies for the most part, and that's what we have to do because of the games and things like that. I don't think that's a factor at all.  
  
  Q. Would you rather rest or would you rather be like you guys and play 15 games in 30 days?   
 JAMES POSEY: Yeah, right now things are going pretty smooth for us, so we'll take the games (laughing).  
  
  Q. How much do you guys feed off the energy of the crowd when you're playing at home?  
 JAMES POSEY: Oh, big time. There's nothing like being at home. They're backing up, they're encouraging us. It's loud in there, and they're just behind us. For the opposing team, it's rough on them, as well. I enjoy being at home.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT