VALERO TEXAS OPEN
October 10, 2008
Tim Herron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOE CHEMYCZ: We welcome Tim Herron in with a 3-under par 67 today. Maybe just talk about the conditions out there this afternoon. 
 It doesn't seem like any of the many of the guys from your wave are popping up too far on the leaderboard.
 TIM HERRON: The greens have gotten -- they've lost a lot of the grain in the greens. They're getting really brown and dusty, so you have to be a little tentative, you can't be quite as aggressive. 
 I mean I think the green speed probably changed close to a foot, almost two feet from yesterday morning. That's quite a big change, you know. It baked out.
 JOE CHEMYCZ: Is this an accurate stat 4 of 14 fairways for you today?
 TIM HERRON: Four out of what?
JOE CHEMYCZ: Is that misleading?
 TIM HERRON: I don't know.
 JOE CHEMYCZ: Do you feel you missed that many fairways?
 TIM HERRON: I felt like I missed every fairway (laughter). I got to hit a couple irons off the tee so I hit a few. Yeah, I didn't hit many fairways. That's what I have to work on, hitting some fairways. 
 JOE CHEMYCZ: Did you miss them by a little bit?
 TIM HERRON: By a little bit? I got lucky on hole No. 5, I pulled it down the left-hand side and hit up just above the cart path and kicked back down on the cart path. It was looking like it might be one of those bushes over there on the left.
 Got lucky there. Hit it in the bushes on 10. So I hit a few wayward but, you know, I guess I know how to play the golf course a little bit so --

JOE CHEMYCZ: 13 greens, you obviously got it where you needed to go.
 TIM HERRON: I guess so. If I'm going to contend, though, I need to hit more fairways. Let's put that it way.

 Q. That was a nice swing in the tree after one shot.
 TIM HERRON: Swing at the tree?
 JOE CHEMYCZ: That was Jason Gore.
 TIM HERRON: Thanks. I appreciate it (laughter). Both wearing white today.

 Q. The greens have been a point of discussion over the last couple days. Is it different than you recall from all your visits here?
 TIM HERRON: The green isn't affecting it as much. The ball isn't breaking as much. I made everything under probably six feet which is good because the ball came -- it sits down a little bit so it kind of hops up but feel good with my stroke and made quite a few putts, so that's what you need to do out here.

 Q. Obviously winning here, you know it's going to take going low. You got stuff to work on like you said. Do you feel like you're in relatively good shape going into the weekend?
 TIM HERRON: Yeah, I think so. I think if you're within two or four of the -- going into the weekend, yeah, you're in good shape unless you're following Tiger.

 Q. I don't think he entered this week. 
 Do you especially feel that way saying you were a little erratic off the tee, "Despite all that here I am"?
 TIM HERRON: Exactly. Like I said, the weekend I got to work on getting the ball a little more in the fairway, but if I do that, I feel like I'm putting pretty well and my irons are getting a little better. 
 So, I played real patient the last two days and I actually holed, you know, some 20, 30-footers. So it's kind of what you need to do if you're hitting out of the rough.
 JOE CHEMYCZ: Inside of ten feet, 31 of 31 for the first two days.
 TIM HERRON: There you go. What?
 JOE CHEMYCZ: You've not missed one inside of ten feet.
 TIM HERRON: There you go. That's good. I'd rather do that than hit fairways. Give me a bunch of crap over here. Trying to go through the birdies or not, really?
 JOE CHEMYCZ: We haven't been doing that.
 TIM HERRON: Alright. 
 JOE CHEMYCZ: Anything else?
 TIM HERRON: Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT