VALERO TEXAS OPEN
October 9, 2008
Tim Herron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHRIS REIMER: Tim, thanks for coming in. 5-under 65, no bogies. Got to be happy with the round today.  
 TIM HERRON: Yeah. I chipped and putted well so I hit a lot of good putts. Greens were a little bumpy so I'm really happy with the round.   
 Made a lot of long ones. Didn't -- probably wasn't the ball striking 65 but I got around today, so --  
CHRIS REIMER: Former champion here. Got a good field. You like playing here?  
 TIM HERRON: Yeah. You know, I've had some success and other times I haven't but, you know, it's one of those golf courses, you're either on or off.   
 It's one of those where you either can see the green and some years you can't see the green, you know, so I just hope the next three days I can see my lines and hit them on.  
 CHRIS REIMER: Take some questions.  
  
  Q. Is there a comfort level when you playing the course? Obviously there's optimism. You play the course, you want to.  
 TIM HERRON: Not this course. You forget how hilly this course is. Yeah. You know, you just have to take it easy here and, you know, take your time and be real focused.   
 You can make one bad -- one bad swing and you can make a big number because they have a lot of brush and stuff around. So it depends if the wind kicks up, this becomes a very, very tricky golf course.  
  
  Q. Today's conditions, though, fairly calm?  
 TIM HERRON: Fairly calm. You know, I'm not thinking I got like a big lead. I probably won't have a lead by the end of the day, you know. I think someone shoots 6 to 8-under probably out there today. There's no wind.  
  
  Q. What's going on with the greens, little bumpier than normal?  
 TIM HERRON: They're a little bumpier than normal. They've been perfect for the last eight years and I guess they -- they aerated them about a month ago and they haven't quite come back.  
  
  Q. Thatchy at fall?  
 TIM HERRON: Little thatchy.  
  
  Q. You said one of your best ball striking rounds. Anything in particular, something you need to work on or just one of those things?   
 TIM HERRON: I think I might have figured something out but we'll see. I'll go to the range. I think -- you know, I was missing left the last few days.   
 I practiced over the weekend. I missed the cut last week. Hit it a tad left of my target I thought and I came out and, you know, hit a little right. Not big blocks but just hit it a little right, maybe just getting a little easy on it.  
 So, you know, I'm just going to work on hitting some shots on the driving range. Hopefully that will work it out.  
  
  Q. Talk about driving the ball a little bit but, you know, seems like you have success on this course, kind of like other courses, you got to putt well and you said you did.   
 Is that kind of the key to shooting under par?  
 TIM HERRON: Yeah, it's putting here. So, like I said, if it does blow, you got to strike your ball because there's a lot of elevation changes and you got to hit a lot of different shots. That's what makes the golf course fun.  
  
  Q. It's interesting how you said forget how hilly it is. Is it the annual thing, "God, I forgot"?  
 TIM HERRON: Yeah, exactly. God, it will help me get in shape, you know (laughter). You're going up 10, what am I thinking (laughter).  
  
  Q. Tim, where is the difficulty on this course with so many wedges? What do you have to avoid?  
 TIM HERRON: What do I have to avoid with wedges?  
  
  Q. Just in general, what makes -- when somebody gets a bad score on the hole where does the difficulty lie because it seems like you're hitting wedges to a lot of holes?  
 TIM HERRON: It's off the tee. I mean like I said, if you hit one pretty far -- if you hit one off line you could make a 6, 7, 8 because you're not going to go find your ball. You got to re-tee it and hit that same shot again. I think that's where the difficulty lies.  
 And if it starts blowing, it's hard to hit some of the fairways because a lot of them tilt left to right with maybe a little left to right wind and it's kind of a hook shot. You got to really work your ball around here. With no wind you don't have to work it as much.  
  
  Q. Is this the kind of course, will there be a difference in October LaCantera course and a May LaCantera course?  
 TIM HERRON: It will probably blow harder in May, won't it? It's Texas. It I can blow at anytime, right? No. I don't think they'll be any difference.  
  
  Q. Grass will be the same?  
 TIM HERRON: Exactly. I'm excited about the new TPC. You know, I think San Antonio is going to get a better field and Valero has been a great sponsor and that they deserve a good field and the town does, too.  
  
  Q. Have you seen it?  
 TIM HERRON: I've not seen it. I've heard a lot of good things about it.  
  
  Q. Some of the names, Justin, several others being 1-under or at par right now, I mean is that kind of -- what does that say to you, you look at the field?  
 TIM HERRON: Not really. I can only do what I can do, you know. You know, you have to shoot pretty low. I don't know what the weather is going to be like but, you know, this Tour, you got to shoot as low as you can.   
 You got to get it pretty far under par and I know Justin probably shot 8, 9-under on this golf course. So, you know, can't really worry what he's doing. I only have control of what I'm doing.  
 CHRIS REIMER: Going through your clubs on your birdies?  
 TIM HERRON: Yeah. No. 5, I actually hit it in the right bunker. The pin was up and I hit my bunker shot to probably about ten feet and it was with a wedge.  
 Then No. 7, hit a 3-iron off the tee. L-wedge to 15 feet, made that. 8, I hit another sand wedge. Did I say sand wedge? I hit 3 iron, sand wedge to about 18 feet and made that.  
 11, I hit rescue, L-wedge to about 15 feet and made that. And then 13, I made about a 35 footer and hit wedge in there and that's it.   
 I made some pars. I made some good up and downs early and kind of salvaged the round and just was patient and made five birdies.  
  
  Q. Any save that stands out, anything exceptional?  
 TIM HERRON: Probably 17, I kind of came out of a shot there, looked like it might even go in the gulch to the right and I got a pretty good bounce and stayed right there, had to scoop it up over a bunker and got that up and down to kind of keep the momentum for tomorrow.  
 CHRIS REIMER: Anything else? Thank Tim.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT