DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2008
Tim Herron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   TIM HERRON: It was a big day, windy. The greens are getting crusty. I made some putts today, which I haven't done in years, I guess. Yeah, it was big. I haven't had a Top 10 in two years, so I'm hoping now I'll sneak in the Top 10. I think I will. 

 Q. Were you aware of your position going into the final round, that you needed a good --
 TIM HERRON: Yeah, I mean, I kind of did. You've got to still keep playing. Everyone was saying I think my projection was 12th, but how do you finish 12th? You never know. And then you've got to see what other people are doing. So actually you've got to play as hard as you can.

 Q. You can kind of confuse yourself with numbers. 
 TIM HERRON: Yeah.

 Q. You were 90th or something coming into the week, 99th. Was it goal No. 1 just to try to find a way to get to St. Louis?
 TIM HERRON: Yeah, people were saying if you go cut, cut, you're maybe going to get to St. Louis; then they were saying, no, you've got to finish 12th this week. 
 I knew I was playing well. I played well last week. I didn't get a lot --

 Q. I understand what you're saying. 
 TIM HERRON: They were saying if you finish 5th, cut, cut is better, so I figured cut, cut. 

 Q. You would have probably had to finish 12th to have enough points to keep going. Were you looking at the leaderboard out there on the back nine or were you just playing or what?
 TIM HERRON: There wasn't much leaderboard, actually. No, I was just playing. I left a couple putts out there, but the greens are getting slick. I wasn't going to run any by and have three- or four-footers. 

 Q. You must be proud of yourself. Your back was up against the wall here. You're 99th coming in, you're projected to be 55th now. That has to give you a vote of confidence. 
 TIM HERRON: Well, I just didn't want a month off, you know. I don't think I've ever taken a month off in the middle of the season. It's going to be nice to have three weeks off, and hopefully I'm going to finish right around 6th.

 Q. Looking forward to next week, what are your thoughts there? 
 TIM HERRON: Well, I have to go in there probably tomorrow afternoon. I'm flying home right now. I've got to pace myself. I'm only going to get one practice round. I've never been there, so I've got to get some work done when I get there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT