AT&T NATIONAL
July 5, 2008
Tim Herron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about your round.  
 TIM HERRON: No bogeys, five birdies, keeps me in the mix. I feel like I have a little bit more control of the game, even though you never really do. I feel like I kind of know what I'm doing a little bit. It's been a struggle for a year.  
  
  Q. What have you been struggling with?   
 TIM HERRON: Oh, man. Well, it started with putting, ball hitting, but I'm getting my timing and feel like my swing is just getting a little more fluid and I'm letting it go.  
  
  Q. We're not used to seeing the good scores on the golf course like we've been; is it playing that easy out there?   
 TIM HERRON: I mean, you know, I've hit a lot of fairways, so it's a little easier than where I usually play from. But no, this is a hard test and you know, you might see some low scores tomorrow but you might see leaders backup or whatever. I don't know exactly what's leading, but I think I'm probably in the mix for shooting something low tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Is this a different course when it's wet?   
 TIM HERRON: When it's softer. It can also be difficult when it's soft because it can be hard to control the ball on the greens. It seems like it's the right firmness where balls won't be backed up quite so much.  
  
  Q. What were you doing right today?   
 TIM HERRON: I was hitting a lot of fairways and you know, I got on a good streak where I was putting pretty well. I was hitting a lot of greens.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about that stretch between 9 and 13 where you made four birdies and then especially No. 11?   
 TIM HERRON: I think 11 owed me. I had a double there yesterday.   
 I actually kind of got a good break. I pulled my second shot and kind of hit the back and it rolled behind the pin and made a nice putt.   
 Feels like my putting is getting better. I just haven't holed as many putts as what it looked like the first two days.   
  
  Q. As of right now if you look at the leaderboard, it looks like it could still be anybody's tournament going into Sunday. Would you just talk about that?   
 TIM HERRON: Well, I like that and I think it will be good for the fans. I think it will be a fun duel tomorrow, it's anybody's ballgame. I think there's probably 20, 25 guys with a chance of winning; if not more.   
  
  Q. How confident do you feel going into tomorrow?   
 TIM HERRON: Well, I feel like I've got some control of my ball. I'm starting to hit a lot more fairways. If I hit some fairways tomorrow, I think I have a pretty good chance.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT