AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 8, 2008
Tim Herron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NELSON SILVERIO:  Tim, thanks for joining us here today for a few minutes, following up your 68 yesterday with a 69 today.  Currently in the lead.  Some thoughts on your round and maybe compare conditions to yesterday.   
 TIM HERRON:  Yesterday I probably hit it a little better.  I started out better yesterday.   
 Today I hit it fine.  I got actually a couple good breaks off some drives.  Other than that, I drove it good.  I probably had two or three bad drives.   
 Anyways, just the last few years I've struggled putting, and I played -- I think I've hit a lot of greens this week and made one bogey, and the bogey I made was a three-putt.   
 You know, going into the weekend it's packed.  Anyone that makes the cut has a chance to win the tournament.  Hopefully it's not 78 guys, hopefully all the guys make the cut, but that might be a little big or something, I don't know.   
  
  Q.  Your comment about the cut, what are your feelings with the MDL situation?   
 TIM HERRON:  I don't know, it came on the green sheet.  We get this green piece of paper that they sent us in November, and somehow I'm up in that cold tundra, I didn't quite get that one.  So I didn't play Hawai'i.  I learned it through the Golf Channel, and that's kind of how I figured out that we had that.  It would have been nice if the members could have voted on it, but that's my opinion.  I don't know if they really care about my opinion.   
  
  Q.  They're revisiting it, I guess, on Tuesday at Riviera.  Would you be in favor of them looking at it again?   
 TIM HERRON:  Well, I don't know, is it fair to the guys that missed the cut in Hawai'i?  You know what I mean?  So they might have to do it next year.  But I guess the TOUR can do that.  If they make a mistake they can just put a Band-Aid on it and figure it out from there.   
  
  Q.  A Mulligan?   
 TIM HERRON:  A Mulligan, exactly, a Band-Aid Mulligan.   
  
  Q.  You mentioned the greens, also, your putting actually.  What is the difference this year as opposed to other years?  Is it better, worse or about the same?   
 TIM HERRON:  Pebble Beach is the best I've ever seen it besides the Open.  During this tournament it's the best.  What's strange is they have three bad greens at Pebble.  Other than that, the greens are great.  You know, what's funny is you'd think the greens that would be bad would be the ones next to the ocean, and it's actually 1, 2 and 15, the three farthest away from the ocean.  I don't know what it is, but other than that they're great for seaside golf.   
  
  Q.  Would you talk about your nickname a little bit, and also the fact that there's a trend in golf headed by Tiger to be chiseled, and he gets more chiseled every year.   
 TIM HERRON:  What are you trying to say?   
  
  Q.  I was hoping you would help me out.   
 TIM HERRON:  My nickname is Lumpy.  I got it back -- the original Lumpy in Leave It to Beaver.  That's probably why they named me after that guy, Clarence Rutherford.  That was his name actually.   
 Anyways, yeah, I got the nickname back in high school at a golf shop where I was working.  The pro asked if I liked the name, and I said no, so it kind of stuck (laughter).   
  
  Q.  What does he think now?   
 TIM HERRON:  He says now he didn't name me, but I disagree with him.   
  
  Q.  Last time we talked you knew you left a couple shots on the course with your putter and you were going to go spend some time putting.  I don't know if you've already answered this, but did you get to work then on that, and did it help you today?   
 TIM HERRON:  Well, in golf it's a process, you know, it's a never-ending battle to try to get the feel of feeling confident over your putting stroke.  You know, is it mechanics, is it timing, things like that.   
 I think the more you do it, the more you rehearse it.  First of all, are you working on the right things.  If you're rehearsing the wrong things, then it could backfire and hurt you.  But if you're working on the right things, I think it can all help.   
 What I'll work on a lot is speed, so that's probably the most important.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
TIM HERRON:  New putter, yeah.  Seven years I've putted with Scotty Cameron.  I changed to a different Scotty Cameron.  It looks like an old Zebra.  They call it the X putter or something.  But it looks like a Zebra.  Seven years, but a change was finally due.   
  
  Q.  Have you had the long handle before?   
 TIM HERRON:  I've tried to do the belly.  It hasn't really worked.  That will be the next resort.  The long putter, my dad putts with one, and I just still can't figure out how to putt with that.  I would say belly.  I'm not going to go long putter.  I'll do belly putter before long putter, but I still don't understand how to use that.  Well, I mean, I understand where to put it and everything, but I don't know -- actually, I don't know.   
  
  Q.  How long will that putter be do you think?   
 TIM HERRON:  (Laughing) what, an inch longer than my other putter?  What are you trying to say?   
  
  Q.  If you were to win, would that kind of stroke a blow for the fact that you don't have to be like Tiger and work out six hours a day?   
 TIM HERRON:  Well, I'm just lucky that Tiger is not here.  He'd probably be 16-under, right?  At least we have a chance this week (laughter).   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT