CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
November 11, 2012
Tim Herron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Congratulations.   Secured your card for next year, 124.   That's gotta be a great feeling.  
TIM HERRON:   Yeah.   Didn't finish well, but 17 was playing hard.   I needed to suck it up and hit it down the left and try to hit a cut and I came over and hooked it in the water.   And then left the putt on the last hole.   
I thought if I got in at 12 under, it was in.   So it is what it is.  
   
 Q.   You played well this weekend, though, and despite the tee shot at 17 today was a really good day, Tim.  
TIM HERRON:   Yeah, I mean of course.   I mean it's when I've fought to do, and made some putts.   I'm putting better, so I'm hoping it gets in and I have a good year next year.  
   
 Q.   I think you're going to get in.  
TIM HERRON:   Yeah.   I mean there's a lot of money to be made out here, so I'm just looking at it as another opportunity, another year to make a few million dollars and maybe a win.  
   
 Q.   Sounds to me like you thought 12 was the number.   Were you disappointed?  
TIM HERRON:   Yeah.   I walked on my bag and kicked it.   I don't know if I dented it.   Usually when I walk on something, it breaks.  
   
 Q.   When did you get the news that 11 is good enough and that you were in?  
TIM HERRON:   Billy Andrade told me.   He goes, don't worry about it.   You're in.   Don't break any more stuff.   (Laughs).  
But I didn't believe him, and I don't know if it's ‑‑ I mean there's some stuff that could still happen.   He doesn't think so, but ‑‑  
   
 Q.   How did things change from 17, going into 17 you were looking good and going into 18 and now you have to birdie to try to get your card?  
TIM HERRON:   The only thing I had was experience, 18 years out here.   I had to collect my thoughts, hit a good drive on 18, which I did, and try to give myself a good birdie putt.   I gave myself a downhill, into the wind.   And I hit a really good putt.   I was just trying to die it in there.   And I know from below the hole it snaps, and the ball could have really gone in the hole.  
   
 Q.   Talking about experience, is that the key for dealing with emotions when it comes to situations like this?  
TIM HERRON:   No.   You can be young, too.   If you're young and naive, it's probably easier.   The game gets harder as you get older, I think.   It should be the other way around, but I think that's the way it is.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT