FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
May 26, 2006
Tim Herron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOE CHEMYCZ:  We welcome Tim Herron, 5 under, par 65 today.  Seven birdies on the day, 14 of 18 greens, 26 putts.  Obviously, pretty good day for you.
TIM HERRON:  Yeah.  You know, of course, I played well last week, try to tell myself, you know, you're going to Memphis, you're going the next week try to get back, focus.  You're playing well.  Let's do what we can do, you know, now while I'm playing decent.  So, instead of enjoying the victory, you know, go to work.  So that's kind of what my focus was this week.

Yesterday, I was just a little tired.  I hit a lot of errant shots, but still trying pretty hard with the putter.  Putting well and hoping for a good weekend.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  You took it back in focus, you say, after everything.
TIM HERRON:  I was able to do that my first three wins and made a point to myself, if I win again, I'm not going to take it for granted, I'm going to keep trying to play well because I just know how this game is.  When it's bad, it's bad.  When it's good, it's good.  You might as well keep it as good as long as you can.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Questions?
Q.  Tim, having played here, how strange is it to see the cut line the way it is?
TIM HERRON:  It's very strange.  You come here because you think it's a birdie fest, and it gets a lot of rain and softer, and it's playing great.

It's one of the    we don't play these type of golf courses much anymore.  It's playing like at Colonial a little bit, hard and fast and the ball is running and, you know, bermuda greens.  They actually softened the course up a little bit with the chipping irons and stuff.

So you actually try to hit some back, run the ball, really you miss the green, it gets away from it.  It makes it real difficult.
Q.  You mentioned the conditions a little bit like Colonial.  How much has that helped you try to string together two good weeks?
TIM HERRON:  Well, confidence is going to help, but, yeah, you know, it's just important    yeah, I mean, the greens are totally different.  So the hard and fast    like I hit a 3 iron off 18 today, which I haven't done in years, you know, here.

So usually we just don't get the wind.  The wind kind of makes it likes Colonial and how the ball runs out.  Sometimes you hit them way over 300 yards downwind.  Other times drives are going 260.
Q.  You were playing great last week in winning.  Were you coming here regardless    I know you had some other things, or would you have considered after winning last week maybe saying no, I kind of rest a little bit?
TIM HERRON:  No.  Saint Jude's is a big part of my family's life.  Since I've been with Target for 11 years, they have a Target House down there, and I've been kind of involved in that and my wife, so we have like a little party when we come in for this tournament, the FedEx St. Jude Classic, and we try to get some players to play with the kids.

Once you get down there, you know, it's    you know, it's sad, but on the other hand, to see the smile on the kids's faces is awesome.

I wish I could have come and rested, but I went home, got my wife, and we came down and had the party on Tuesday.

So, I was planning on coming anyway.
Q.  It doesn't does sound like you had much time to rest.  Did you have any time off to relax on Monday?
TIM HERRON:  No.  They threw a party for me last week on Monday.  No resting there, either.  It was up in Minnesota, actually.  So    not a lot of rest.  The most rest I got was last night and, you know, I'll try to get some tonight.
Q.  Tim, again, how much fun has this two week run been for you just playing at this level?
TIM HERRON:  Well, last week, you know, it was real fun.  It was like a relief getting over a hump, you know, seven year drought of no winning and been up there quite a bit.

So, you know, I know I've been playing well, and I don't see why I can't keep it going this week.  On the other hand, it is a difficult golf course.  You have to stay focused here.  You can't take this place for granted.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Take us through birdies and bogies starting at 1.
TIM HERRON:  1, I hit driver, 6 iron.  15 feet past the hole and made it downhill.

No. 2 hit driver, sand wedge to about four feet and made that for birdie.

3, I hit driver on the front edge with two putted that for birdie.

Then No. 7 I hit driver, 9 iron to about three feet and made that for birdie.

Then No. 9 I hit it down the right side, thinking, you know, it's going to be in this little swale, and it was actually kind of up behind the trees a little bit.  Hit a pretty good punch, thinking it was going to be right of the green and kept running and had a real tough chip over a bunker and made bogey there.  Actually made a good 5 footer.

Then get to 10, hit it about 20 feet, made that for birdie.

12, I hit it out of bounds off the tee.  Got up and hit the next one a good drive and hit a wedge in there probably 35 feet, made that for bogey.  Far left, far right.

I didn't hit a terrible drive.  Well, I did hit a terrible drive.  But, I mean, blowing 20 miles an hour right at you, you don't want it to leak in into that water.  And I didn't let it leak.  I pull hooked it.

16, I hit driver, 3 iron in the right bunker and got that up and down.  We had about a 5 footer for birdie.  17, hit driver, 8 iron to about 40 feet behind the hole and made a 40 footer for birdie and then parred 18.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  All good.  Alright.  Tim, thanks.
TIM HERRON:  See you tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT