CIALIS WESTERN OPEN
July 1, 2005
Tim Herron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Tim, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the Cialis Western Open.  Another good day out there.  Why don't you start with, you played in the afternoon yesterday, played in the morning this morning.  Why don't you just compare the days.  It seems like yesterday was pretty tough in the afternoon.
TIM HERRON:  Yeah, yesterday I think the wind was blowing actually harder this morning, starting to lay down a little more right now.  It was blowing a good 20 on my front nine, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14.

13 I think was a driver, 3 iron and the pin was up, tees were all the way back, and I hit two really good shots there, ended up making bogey.

You know, it was a little cooler today, so the ball probably wasn't jumping quite as far as it was yesterday, but I played somewhat similar, wind direction was a little different, but all in all, it was pretty much the same wind direction, might have quartered a little bit differently out of the north.
Q.  It was kind of an odd round and then it took a long time to make a par.  Didn't you get five birdies?
TIM HERRON:  Yeah, I birdied the first two, bogeyed the next hole, and then birdied 14, 15 and 16.  Then I made some pars on 17 and 18.  I actually hit a good putt on 17.  16 I made about a 40 footer, which was nice.  That kind of gets the ball rolling.
Q.  So many golfers talk about being in a rhythm.  Can you be in a rhythm when you're birdie, bogey, kind of bouncing back and forth there, or do you just keep it steady mentally?
TIM HERRON:  Well, you know, I felt like I made some bad mistakes or just didn't capitalize on some of the up and downs.  Today I did coming in on the front nine, which was my back nine.  I got the ball up and down pretty well, hit some good trouble shots, so I felt like I kept it going, which will be more positive and beneficial going into the weekend.

Yesterday it felt like I wasted a couple shots.  I had two three putts, and if you're leading the tournament, you're usually not three putting.
Q.  Your routine tonight?  Do you go to the practice range and work on things?
TIM HERRON:  I'm probably not going to do anything.  I was in Rhode Island Monday and Tuesday for the CVS, I'm probably just going to take it easy.
Q.  Are you nervous going into tomorrow?
TIM HERRON:  Am I nervous?  No, I'm not too nervous I don't think.  There's two more rounds, so it's not like I have this big huge lead or anything.  If the wind is lying down, someone might get to 10.  There's a couple guys that shot 7 yesterday morning, so they could play pretty well.  The greens were a little more beat up yesterday afternoon, so they're smoother this morning, so you might not see super low rounds, but Todd Fischer shot 7 under yesterday afternoon, so it can be done.
Q.  You're the leader at 1:00 o'clock.  Do you feel like you're going to be the leader at 7:00 o'clock?
TIM HERRON:  You know, I'm not really too worried about it because it's a marathon, not a sprint.  I'm trying to just get in contention, feel like I'm playing well.  I mean, there's 36 holes, it's a hard golf course.  The wheels can start spinning off or you can start making some birdies and really go off.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Can we go through your round?  You made birdie on 10, starting on 10.
TIM HERRON:  10, I decided to hit driver off the tee, pin was up, figured the second shot was into the wind, hit an L wedge from 78 yards to about five feet.

11, pulled my drive into the bunker and hit a 4 iron to lay up, hit a 9 iron to about 15 feet, made that.

Bogey on 12, I misclubbed and hit a pretty good chip up there about seven feet, missed it.

Then 13, hit driver, 3 iron into the left bunker, pin high, and chili dipped my bunker shot.  I got it out by that much (indicating a foot), so now I'm in the thick grass.  I chipped it up to about six feet and made that.  That's what kind of got my round going.  That was my wake up call.

Then I birdied the next hole, hit it in there about five feet.

15, I hit it in the left bunker, laid up with a 9 iron, hit a 9 iron in there about five, four feet.

Then I made a 40 footer on 16.

No. 5, hit driver, 7 iron to about 12 feet, made that.

Then 7, hit driver, 9 iron to about three feet, made that.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Tim.
TIM HERRON:  Hope to see you on the weekend.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT