THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 3, 2005
Tim Herron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Tim Herron, 6 under par.
Q.  How do you feel about where you are?
TIM HERRON:  It's not raining, so it feels pretty good out, don't you think?
Q.  You expected different, huh?
TIM HERRON:  You know, the scores aren't super low.  The course is starting to play, I think, the way Mr. Nicklaus wants it to play.  It's starting to run out on some of the corners.  18 is a much tighter driving hole because you can't really hit it down the left.  It still has an opportunity to go in the water.

You know, if we don't get any rain, it's going to be a really fun and different Memorial, I think.  The great part about the golf course is you can make a lot of birdies and you can make some others, too.  So it's just hanging in there.
Q.  Seems like the par 5s are reachable, but just like yesterday, not a ton of eagles out there.  What do you attribute that to?
TIM HERRON:  There's a lot of forced carries, and it's hard to stick a couple of those shots in there.  It's easier if the greens are a little softer, if we get some rain.  But the course is playing I think the way he wants it to.
Q.  Your shot on 15, you carried it back there, kind of got you going, back to back birds.  Is that the way you like to finish going into the weekend?
TIM HERRON:  Yeah, I guess so.  I mean, I know I can make some birds.  I'm going to work hard this afternoon on my putting just to try to feel comfortable.  I'm not too comfortable right now.  Tee to green it's been my most solid ball striking rounds all year, and I've had some pretty good tournaments early on.  I feel like I'm striking the ball really well, and I'd like to take some more advantage of it on the weekend.
Q.  Did you find something at FedEx because it seemed like there were some missed cuts and then the Top 25 at FedEx.
TIM HERRON:  Well, I've been working with my coach.  It's a tough game.  I don't know, you just kind of go through it and try to play through it.  You know, still work on some confidence.  I need to work on my confidence for my putting.  That's what's been holding me up the last two or three years, and I know if I can get just the real feel, I know I can make every putt I look at.  I just need to get that feel again.
Q.  You've always been one of the most, to me, likable, easy going.  Is Jonathan Kaye in your league, or is he just such a free spirit that    do you know him well at all?
TIM HERRON:  Yeah, I know him real well.  I think he's a little bit misunderstood.  I think once you get to know him he's a good man.
Q.  What do you mean "misunderstood"?
TIM HERRON:  Well, I don't know.  Everyone thinks he's like a wild child.  If you really know him, he's not like that.  He's not going out every night and doing crazy stuff.  He's to his own.  He likes to farm jalepenos, and I think he's fun.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Thanks, Tim.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT