JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 4, 2012
Tim Herron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What a nice round of golf.   What a strong finish.   You one‑putted the last four holes. 
TIM HERRON:   Did I really?   Wow, thanks.

Q.   Starting with the eagle at 15. 
TIM HERRON:   Yeah, it was one of those rounds that didn't feel like I absolutely flushed it, but made a couple putts.   I hung in there early, missed a couple putts early, and hung in there and things kind of started rolling.
I didn't hit it terrible, but I didn't feel like I was quite really on my game.   Maybe that's just taking six weeks off.   Hopefully I can get some confidence and hit some of the shots when I really need to hit some shots.

Q.   Tell me about the long eagle putt that you had at 15?
TIM HERRON:   Well, we didn't know if we should wave 'em up or go.   We had a lost ball there, so I was just trying to lag it down there, hit it on perfect lie and perfect speed.   Most important was the line and the speed, and happened to get it.
The ball actually kind of came back to the left a little bit where I thought I was going to miss it right and I saw it come back left.   I kind of knew about five feet that I had a chance the ball gets to the hole.

Q.   Beautiful.   That chip you had at 17 was really good. 
TIM HERRON:   Yeah, I mean, I was thinking maybe chipping out sideways or going for it.   I know these greens get really firm.   They're a little soft right now.   I know the weekend totally changes and they speed up another couple feet.
I knew if I was going to go for it, today was probably the day to do it.

Q.   You're a veteran of the Fall Series.   How do you approach these last four tournaments? 
TIM HERRON:   Well, I've played not very well this year.   I've made a lot cuts just haven't had a lot of Top 10s.   I got to kind of put the throttle down but also use something that I have.   I have little bit of experience.   It is a patient game.
It's all depending on when and where the situation calls and I should be aggressive. 

Q.   Well it's off to a nice start. 
TIM HERRON:   Thanks.   I appreciate that. 

Q.   Just talk about the back nine because everybody is going so low right now.   Why?   Is it playing that easy?
TIM HERRON:   Well, the back nine is a little more risk/reward.   Some of the pins are a little more accessible.   But the back nine can also bite you, too.
Just one of those nine holes where it's fun for fans to see some birdies. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT