FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 28, 2003
Tim Herron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







TODD BUDNICK:  We thank Tim Herron for joining us after 6-under 65.  You've made all six cuts at the tournament, four top-20 finishes.  You must like this course. 
TIM HERRON:  Yeah, I do.  I like the golf course and I like the event even though the heat, but it's been a little cooler the last few days.
TODD BUDNICK:  No bogeys today, none for your last 38 holes.  I'd say that's probably one of the keys to your success so far this week.
TIM HERRON:  I've played consistent and I've judged the ball pretty well out of the rough, and I had putted really well the first two days.  You know, I putted decent today, left a couple out there, but all in all, I played more solid today than I did the first two days and the score actually shows it. 

Q.  (Inaudible). 
TIM HERRON:  Well, here it's kind of a shootout so it's kind of moving day every day here.  I know I'm going to have to play really solid today and make quite a few putts to have a chance to win the tournament.

Q.  When you know that, even when you're at the top of the leaderboard, is there a pressure on keeping on going, keep making birdies?
TIM HERRON:  Yeah, there is, but there's also a patience to it.  You have to realize that there's going to be some holes out there where you're going to make a few putts, so you're just going to have to stay consistent.  You never know what's going to happen.

Q.  A couple years ago you were in a position -- I don't know whether you were second or something heading into Sunday right here.  What happened that Sunday?  What is the mindset going into tomorrow compared to other times, and do you look at it like, this is a chance for me to win or this is a chance for me to just score as well as I can?
TIM HERRON:  I think in '99, I was either a shot behind or tied for the lead going into the last day, and there was a rainout.  We ended up playing on Monday.  Ted Tryba played awesome.  He eagled two of the par-5s on the front and I couldn't catch him.  3-under, I played maybe a little too conservative.  You know, it depends how I'm feeling.  I feel like I'm really swinging well, I am swinging within myself, and that's the important part, just to gain some confidence going into the next few weeks and play hard tomorrow, get some rest and have a good day tomorrow.

Q.  Are you surprised the guys who were ahead of you didn't create a little more separation?
TIM HERRON:  Well, even though -- you have to drive the ball in the fairway.  Even though the rough isn't real thick, you have to -- you can play conservative and make some pars, but they have some tough, little pin placements where you can make some big numbers out there, and even if you do make some big numbers, you've got to remember that you can make some birdies.  I know I'm kind of talking in a circle, but you can get kind of conservative when you have the lead.
Where I'm at, there will be places where I'll play conservative and there will be places where I'm going at the pins.

Q.  Do you still have a good, local cheering section here?
TIM HERRON:  Yeah, not too bad.  My buddy still comes out.

Q.  Bjorn?
TIM HERRON:  Yeah.  He has some kids so he doesn't come out until the weekend, but he was out today and yesterday.
TODD BUDNICK:  If we can just go through the card, Tim, the birdies on 2 and 3.
TIM HERRON:  Yeah, I hit a Rescue club and a sand wedge at 2 about ten feet, made that for birdie.
Hit a good drive on 3, had 5-iron, hit it just left of the pin, got it up-and-down, made about a 5-footer.
5, I hit driver, 5-iron to the front edge of the green and two-putted from there from about 35, 40 feet.
No. 8, I had 160 and hit an 8-iron to about ten feet just right of the hole -- nine feet actually because it was just right on the fringe.  That pin was three off the side.  I made that for birdie. 
10, I hit 3-wood, 7-iron to about five feet and made that for birdie. 
16, I hit driver, 4-iron to the right side of the green and two-putted from about 50 feet, made that for birdie.  Then I had some -- quite a few 20-footers out there that I didn't make, but you don't really expect it.  When you're playing well, you're thinking maybe one will drop, but nothing really dropped.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Tim. 
TIM HERRON:  All right, thanks.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT