CANON GREATER HARTFORD OPEN
June 20, 2002
Tim Herron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOHN BUSH:  We'd like to thank Tim Herron for coming into the interview room.
TIM HERRON:  Thanks.

JOHN BUSH:  Some general comments on how it went out there.
TIM HERRON:  Well, I mean, it felt like I was playing pretty well coming into it.  I still finished like, 16 over last week.  That doesn't really show but I knew -- the ball is starting to go kind of where I was looking.  I was rolling it pretty good and I played well.  I just tried to stay patient out there and that's what I did.  I bogied my 2nd hole of the day.  You can't tell, it's blind, but I had a feeling it was probably right bunker, right bunker, and nailed it over the green and didn't get it up and down.  So, I started out with a bogey and came back with a birdie.  I and missed a couple putts and made one on 7 for birdie.
JOHN BUSH:  Can you take us through those birdies?
TIM HERRON:  No. 3, I hit driver, sand wedge, to about 12 feet, made that for birdie a little right-to-lefter. 
The next hole I hit it in there probably about five feet and missed it. 
Par 5, I went for it in 2 and hit about a 15-feet bunker shot past the hole, missed that.
And then I made about a 7-footer on the 7th hole. 
And then on 10 I hit driver, 8-iron to about 15 feet and made that little right-to-left up the hill.
And then 12 I made about a 10-footer for a birdie there.  And what other hole did I birdie?  17, I made about a 15-footer right of the hole, hit 1-iron, 8-iron.
And then 18 I hit it to about 2 inches so that was an easy putt to make.

Q.  What did you hit on that hole?
TIM HERRON:  I hit driver, wedge.

Q.  How far?
TIM HERRON:  121. 
JOHN BUSH:  Number 7 you said you hit it in there 7 feet.  What did you hit in?
TIM HERRON: 8-iron, driver 8-iron.
JOHN BUSH:  Any questions?
Q.  What do you mean by, "starting to go where I was aiming?"  Hasn't it been a good year as far as keeping it in play?
TIM HERRON:  Yeah.  I've been -- I don't know.  I'm generally pretty good iron player.  I'm a long driver.  I just have to get the ball in play.  I've been, you know, double-crossing a little bit, hitting down the left side and just kind of, you know, just kind of stays left instead of cutting, and I played my cut nice today. 

Q.  Tim, were the conditions out there conducive to like real going low if you had everything going right?
TIM HERRON:  Yeah.  I don't see myself being the leader in the clubhouse by the end of the day.  I think someone will shoot 6, 7 under, but who knows?  There's some good pin placements out there, and you got to still play well to shoot that but, you know, I was stuck in between yardages a couple times on the par 5s, going for it and stuff like that where I was going to have a hard up-and-down.  It's kind of hard to get the ball up and down if you miss it in some places out there.

Q.  That's a nice way to finish, birdies on 17 and 18.  You don't often see that.
TIM HERRON:  Yeah, I know.  I wish I could do that every day coming in but, you know, I hung in there.  I always felt like I could have been a little lower, and then I birdied -- I hit a great putt on 17 and probably had about a foot of break in the middle.

Q.  How does your mind change?  I mean, last week you were trying to just keep it in play and somehow not kill yourself out there.  I mean, you come in here and you think here you're going to have to shoot 3 and 4 under every day to win the tournament?  How do you approach it differently than last week?
TIM HERRON:  No.  I mean, you just go out and play golf.  You know, everyone asks how you approach it, but you try to shoot as low as you can.  You have a little more opportunities out there because you don't have the 490 par 4s, you know.  So there's some good hole out here where you have to hit your irons, good par 3s, but also, you know, you just go out there and try to make birdies.  You know you can.  The greens are a little slower than last week too.

Q.  At what point did you know you could have something -- a good round together today?
TIM HERRON:  Well, just if I kept my tee shots in play, I knew I could have a decent round today, so I just stayed focused.  The fairways look bigger than last week, so I knew I was close.  I was hitting the edges of the fairways, and now I hit them in.  It gives you a little more confidence. 

Q.  Tim, are 17, 18 playing downwind?
TIM HERRON:  No.  There's not much wind out there right now.  It's probably playing right-to-left, a little down.

Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIM HERRON:  Blowing maybe 2 miles per hour.

Q.  That's it?
TIM HERRON:  Yeah.
JOHN BUSH:  Anything else?  Okay, Tim.  Thanks for stopping by.
TIM HERRON:  Thanks. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT