BAY HILL INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY COOPER TIRES
March 14, 2000
Tim Herron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIM HERRON: My game is starting to come around a little bit. I'm going to probably
after this go out and hit a few. I've been grinding pretty hard. I've been searching a
little bit for somewhat -- if it wasn't my long game, it's my putting, you know, one of
those things. You know, that's how golf is. But the putting is starting to come around. I
putted well on the weekend last week, and I'm looking for a good tournament. I think I'm
right there. 

Q. Tim, are there any added pressures coming into a tournament that you've won
previously, a mind set, as opposed to another tournament that you might enter? 

TIM HERRON: I don't think so. I think, you know, it might be, maybe your first win or
something to defend well or do something, I don't know what you'd be thinking, but you
know the golf course suits you because you've won there. Just go in and play golf. I think
-- I don't think there's a lot of pressure because I don't think a lot of people defend;
so, you don't really have really high expectations, which is good. You just kind of go out
and free-wheel it and hopefully shoot some low numbers the first few days, and then you
can really feel like you can actually defend.

Q. Aside from the fact that you've won here, why do you like this course?

TIM HERRON: I think it's a great golf course. I think you have to shape it both ways. I
think the holes really setup nice. You can kind of see them and visualize your shot. And I
like the greens. For some reason, growing up in Minnesota, I feel like I put Bermuda
greens or overseeded Bermuda very well. I think these are the type of greens where you get
the putter going, you can make a lot of putts. 

Q. When you won Honda back in '96, I think that got you into Augusta. Do you remember
winning and thinking, "Man, I'm going to the Masters," and do you kind of wish
even though it doesn't apply to you now that they would go back to that? 

TIM HERRON: Yeah, I think so. You know, who was it -- like a Jim Carter, he's been out,
what, 17 years, that's pretty close. He's probably played -- I don't know if he's played
Augusta or not through certain categories, but, you know a guy like that, dream come true,
he finally won, finally broke through, and, you know he doesn't get to say, "Well,
I'm also going to Augusta." That was kind of part of it. It seems now that you don't
get as much for winning as consistent play. Even though the money is still good at the
top, you know, second place is good, too. I mean, if you go -- finish off, go second,
second, in two weeks you're making more than the guy that actually won in one week. So
it's very top-heavy and it seems like, you know, there's only one tournament now, the
Mercedes now, where if you win, you're in, where I think my rookie year, there was almost
three or four tournaments like that, NEC, Augusta, La Costa, the Mercedes, and the
PLAYERS, yeah, exactly. 

Q. So do you think it hurts the Masters field not to have the champion? 

TIM HERRON: I think they did that for -- no, I don't think it hurts the field at all.
It might take a little of the -- on the players' side, the mystique out of Augusta a
little bit, on how you get in. Now it's a world ranking, and actually they did it to try
to expand the field, I think. That's what I've heard. I think there's more players
actually playing this year than ever before. I don't know. You guys would know that. 

Q. But it's still not the same amount of players like a U.S. Open or PGA, there's still
40, 50 guys less?

TIM HERRON: They do still want to keep it -- they probably do want the best field. They
probably felt like all these winners were getting in in smaller tournaments. Like in '97 I
won the Texas Open and they are thinking, "Texas Open champ" or whatever,
because I think there's another tournament, the Ryder Cup was during that or something. I
think they wanted world-ranked players in there more, to make the field stronger. 

Q. They didn't want you? 

TIM HERRON: I don't know. When did the world rankings start, '98? 

Q. This year. They have had the rankings since the mid 80s. For Augusta it just started
this year?

TIM HERRON: Oh, okay. They had the Sony rankings and then they had the world rankings?
I didn't know that. 

Q. They when you first won, how long did it take you to think that thought," I'm
going to Augusta?"

TIM HERRON: Not very long. I think a half an hour or something, until somebody brought
it up in the media room: "You're going to Augusta," because I was kind of
focused on getting dry from that tournament, (laughter), getting dry; and trying to find
my first beer. 

Q. Have you talked to any of the guys who have won this year who are not otherwise
eligible? 

TIM HERRON: No, I haven't. I assume Jim Carter is not. I haven't talked to him. I just
kind of said, you know, there's a bummer that -- that you won two years too late or one
year too late, but a win's a win, you know. He's still ecstatic. At least he's working
towards getting in the Masters next year if he has a good year. He can still drop his
world ranking.

Q. You said you were working on different parts of your game. How bad did things get or
did they get bad or --

TIM HERRON: Yeah, it got a little off. I was getting a little side-tracked. In the
off-season, I try not to work too hard, but when I went out, I go, you know, there's one
thing I would like to do with my game is probably perfect my draw a little better, if I
could hit a draw, and I just overexaggerated what I was doing, and I came out this fall
and started in way right. So I'm kind of working back towards hitting a fade, hitting it a
little straighter. And West Coast, those bumpy greens are tough and you can lose your
confidence. It's just nice to get back on greens that you're fairly confident on. So it's
a long, long year. I've put a lot of pressure on myself to really get started, and now I'm
just going to kind of go the opposite way, just take it when it comes. I know I'm going to
play 20-some events and I know I'll have a few good weeks in there. 

Q. Are you a streaky player? 

TIM HERRON: Streaky? Yeah, I'm probably somewhat streaky. I felt I was fairly
consistent last year and I kind of wanted to go that route this year. You know, it's a
little less stressful, I guess. But, you know, I had a win and couple of seconds and a
bunch of Top-10s last year, so I figure if you're playing well you have better
opportunities to win. So instead of streaky, but, you know --

Q. That's where you're trying to work? 

TIM HERRON: Yeah, I'm trying to work, make the game easier. And I think I learned on
the West Coast that you'll never make it easy. It's always going to be a pain in the butt.
It's always going to be hard.

Q. Do you think golf is getting maybe a little too top-heavy, too much dependence on
the Top 20, 25 players in the world? 

TIM HERRON: This guy throws out some tough questions. No, I don't think so. I think,
you know, the way the world works now is, you know, everyone strives to be No. 1. Everyone
wants to watch the No. 1 player, and I think that's great. I think the best players in the
world should make the most money. I think that's right. You know, in golf, it gives the
guys an opportunity to go out and beat the top players, and they will make the money as
well as the top players are.

Q. What was the bigger win last year for you, your win here or your sister's win? 

TIM HERRON: I don't know. You know, they are both ranked up there. My sister's -- is
one of the best feelings in golf I've ever had, caddying, actually. It was great to see
someone else actually get enjoyment like I have, winning a golf tournament, and it was
kind of fun to be with her in that and watch her succeed and win a National Championship
as an amateur. It was pretty awesome. 

Q. What was the crucial caddie advice you gave her that week that won her the title? 

TIM HERRON: Crucial caddie advice that week, I don't know, I just kept on talking to
her, make sure she stayed loose. The last round she was pretty tough and I told her the
night before, I've caddied 36, 36, 36 and we're playing 18, and she's like, "Well, at
least I made it to the final 2." I'm like, "Well, I'm not caddying if you're not
going to win. Let's go out and try to win this thing. I'm not going to go 36, 36, 36 for
second. Come on." She played awesome and both of them were nervous at the -- in the
finals, and it just kind of happened where she kind of walked into it. I mean, Ellen had a
good chance, really good chance of beating Alyssa, and she missed quite a few short putts,
and I just kind of told her to hang in there and she did and boom. I just tried to stay
out of the way. 

Q. Were you reading putts? Were you pretty active in club selection? 

TIM HERRON: Yeah, I was as active as I could be. She kept it down the middle pretty
good. 

Q. Did you enjoy making that commercial?

TIM HERRON: Yeah, the commercial was great. People I hear, enjoy it, every week. It was
fun. I hope to see his career -- he's such a great guy, old "sign boy" and I
hope it helps his career go up. It's been fun, get some recognition and get some attention
for Footjoy.

Q. What kind of a sandwich was that you were eating? 

TIM HERRON: That was a hot dog, man, 7:30 in the morning. Don't think I like it. I
needed a little spit bucket.

Q. But you're off hot dogs? 

TIM HERRON: Yeah, I try to be. I fluctuate a little. 

Q. What's helped you lose the 20 pounds? 

TIM HERRON: I got a trainer named Boris and I tell him every day that I'm going to -- I
tell him every day right before I go, "This is my last day, I'm going to quit after
this," but I keep going on in. 

Q. As much as you've dropped the 20 pounds and everything, you talked during the year
getting in somewhat of shape what. Did Darren Clarke's victory prove against the fitness
media? 

TIM HERRON: Exactly. It's for golf, but it's also for your -- you know, for yourself,
for your well-being, I guess, in a way. You know, if you feel like you've accomplished
something outside of golf, it makes you feel better. That will help bring it to the golf
course, you know what I mean. That will help when you're on the golf course. It's good to
kind of work on things outside of golf. You know, sometime you just get too wrapped up
into this, oh, I'm going to be around for 10, 15, 20 years playing this game; so, kind of
want to do something to extend your -- extend your career. 

Q. How long did it take you to lose 20? 

TIM HERRON: I don't know, a couple months, I guess. I did it pretty much working out. I
stuck to a fairly good diet. It's tough on the road, but a fairly good diet, you know, no
sushi, no bread and all that stuff. Maybe one Diet Coke a day the rest water. You know,
now I've kind of gone to M&Ms and stuff like that, but I'm still working out. 

Q. You played with Governor in Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania today.

TIM HERRON: Yes. 

Q. Any political insight into the vice presidency? 

TIM HERRON: He didn't talk about it, but the other guys talked about it quite a bit. I
don't know. I just wondered if he could beat up my governor, Jesse. I guess he's not mine,
in Arizona, but we talked about Jesse Ventura a little bit. Says he's a good guy, so we
had fun out there. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT