FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 14, 1999
Tim Herron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIM HERRON: Well, the golf course played a little different today. It played a lot
longer where I thought I kind of had it matched the same -- with Ted, he hits it a long
ways, too. It was just kind of different. With a day wait, I just didn't feel quite as
comfortable as I did the first three days with the putter and things like that. I had a
pretty good chance on the two par 5s on the front and didn't capitalize on that. So it was
hard to get my momentum going. Iron shots were a little shaky. Driver was a little shaky.
But I was happy to get in at 3-under today. I birdied No. 6. I hit driver, 5-iron probably
in there about 18 feet and made that. No. 12, I hit 1-iron in a little right. Actually
barely caught the fairway there at 97 yards to the hole and hit it in there probably about
three feet and made that. Then 16, hit driver, missed club my second shot. Came up 15
yards short of the front edge; and hit a pretty aggressive chip, trying to kind of make
it, because Tryba was in there about 10 feet. And I hit it about 11 feet by, and made that
coming back. And then I hit two good putts -- I hit two good putts on the last two holes
that I thought had a good chance of going in, and they just didn't fall.

Q. What did you think when Ted had the eagle?

TIM HERRON: Well, I knew I had to get maybe a little more aggressive. I knew I could
not guide it, even though I guided it off the 18th hole. But I knew I had to hit some golf
shots. I knew 18 was a hard hole and, with a two-shot lead, he drove it perfect in the
fairway. I knew maybe I had a chance; and then after seeing his putt, I knew if I made my
putt I had a good chance, because he had a 15-footer for par. But all in all, he played
outstanding, and he played good, and he should have won the golf tournament.

Q. How difficult after 12, because you had to get a little confidence after birdieing
that hole.

TIM HERRON: Yeah, and then hit a good shot on the par 3. Hit a bad drive off of 13. Hit
a good shot on the par 3 and hit a horrible putt. I didn't really let it happen like I did
the first three days. I was starting to force it. I knew I had to make some birdies. I
looked at the board and knew that Tryba was in the lead. I thought someone was 18- or
19-under. I knew I had to start getting aggressive. I knew I was right there. I hit a bad
iron shot on the next hole. I just didn't drive it on the fairway enough on the back side
today to have any opportunity.

Q. I guess you knew the course would be longer yesterday when you played today. Did you
think it would be as difficult as it was? There were not a lot of real low scores.

TIM HERRON: I think a lot of guys were a little frustrated, probably. It's hard to keep
your focus. We have a time frame, Thursday through Sunday; and then, you know, when you're
taken out of rhythm a little bit, everyone is kind of scattering for flights and things.
It's hard to stay focused actually on the golf, because Monday is our day to travel. I
think everyone was just a little scattered, and it probably played a little -- played
longer. Where a good example is, I was hitting sand wedges into 6, and I hit a 5-iron
today. But the course played fine. It didn't play -- the course was in great shape.

Q. You were out of rhythm because of the differences of the day. How do you feel about
next week?

TIM HERRON: I think I need to work on a few things. Like I said, I didn't hit it quite
as good as I hit it the first three days. Hopefully, I can get over there, you know, and
work on a few things. I'll have some confidence next week.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT