FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 12, 1999
Tim Herron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIM HERRON:  Well, I played pretty good today.  Started out birdieing the 1st hole.  I had a chance on 2, and drove it in the fairway on 3.  And I thought I was really going to get going, and ended up making bogey on that hole.  I didn't know how the day was going to go.  I just knew if I was patient, I've been putting good all week, a few putts might drop, and it happened where they dropped, and I was just kind of patient.  And I looked on the board coming up 18, I saw that I was in the thick of things.  I didn't look at the board much throughout the whole day.  I was trying to find the shade.  1, I hit driver, 9-iron to about 10 feet and made that, left-to-righter.  Bogeyed No. 3.  Had 6-iron into the green; left it a little right.  I felt like I kind of had to force that shot, and just kind of blocked it a little bit in the water, and hit a horrible sand wedge shot to like 30 feet, and 2-putted for bogey.  Made a great up-and-down on No. 4.  That kind of kick-started me a little bit.  That was the pin placement I think on the whole golf course was that front pin placement, because you really have no bail out there.  I kind of bailed out to the right and hit a chip, probably could not get it that close.  Got that up-and-down, then birdied the par 5.  Hit it just in front of the green.  Got up-and-down, and played about a 12-footer for birdie there.  Missed about a 10-footer on the next hole.  7, missed about a 20-footer.  8, missed about a 20-footer.  9, missed about a 20-footer.   11, I hit 8-iron from 170, straight downwind to about 20 feet, 18 feet; made that one.  12, hit it in there about 10 feet; made that one.  I hit it in there close on the next hole and missed it.  Hit a great putt on the par 3.  Hit a little cut 4-iron there, and it lipped out; hit a great putt.  Birdied 15.  Hit it in there probably about 8 feet.  Made a left-to-righter.  Driver 3-iron over the green on the par 5, and got it up-and-down.  Probably made a 5-footer there.  17, I had about -- hit it 40 feet right of the hole, 2-putted.  18, missed about a 15-footer, 12-footer.


Q.  It looked like yesterday it could be a run-away-and-hide type of thing.  Now, we've got a free-for-all going.  Does that affect your strategy going into your round tomorrow that you're going to be competing against a lot of guys instead of one or two?

TIM HERRON:  Yeah, a little bit.  You bring what you have.  And I'm driving it pretty well and putting pretty well, and kind of relying on that.  And hopefully hit some irons in there a little closer and have some more opportunities.  Haven't missed many greens; so, that's been -- the strategy is pretty good.  I didn't miss many today at all.  That's kind of what I'll try to do.  Hopefully, play the par 5s smart and make a couple birdies, and get off to a good start on the front.  You know, turn the front under par.  But if it doesn't happen that way, it still feels like you can birdie almost every hole on the back.


Q.  You said you didn't look at the scoreboard much.  Will you do that tomorrow?  Do you have a philosophy on that?

TIM HERRON:  Well, you can't control anyone else.  No, I'll like, you know, sometimes you're  waiting there, so you might as well look and see what's going on, where you stand.  You know, if you end up shooting 8-under, and you have four holes to play, you might go with maybe a little different strategy if you see you have a three- or four-shot lead or something like that.  But until you get there  --


Q.  Were you surprised to see --

TIM HERRON:  Well, the wind picked up a little bit.  If you got a little errant on a few holes, you could make some numbers.  Yeah, I guess, yeah, David Frost, when he's playing well, he's on full cylinder.  I was a little bit surprised.  He usually plays very aggressive golf, and, you know, it will be fun tomorrow; see what's going to happen.


Q.  Are you especially anxious to practice the sand game this afternoon?  I think I saw you raking the practice trap with your caddie for a while.

TIM HERRON:  I don't know.  I walked from here from 18.


Q.  Before the round.

TIM HERRON:  Oh, yeah, before the round, I hit some bunker shots to get the feel of it.  There haven't been many bunkers, and I have a new L-wedge; so I'm just trying to get the feel of that.  That's all I've been doing.  My philosophy into this week was I'm just actually playing, was going to be kind of the setup for -- setup for the Open, and not actually try and wear yourself out too much hitting balls and things like that.  So I just kind of do it before I play.


Q.  How does an old ice fisherman deal with this climate down here, and would you rather have the ice fishing conditions or these conditions?

TIM HERRON:  Actually, I'm going up to the northern territory right after the U.S. Open.  So I'm looking forward to that 50-, 60-degree weather.  But I figure I can shed a few lbs if you come down here; and I like supporting St. Jude, because I think it's a good cause.  And that's why I come to Memphis.  I have some friends, and I like the ribs.  What else better  is there?


Q.  You sampled the ribs yet this year?

TIM HERRON:  I went to Rendezvous last night.  I always have to make a stop there.


Q.  Full rack?

TIM HERRON:  Of course.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT