GREATER GREENSBORO CHRYSLER CLASSIC
April 22, 1999
Tim Herron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIM HERRON:  Well, general comment, I feel like I could have scored a lot better today.  I was kind of surprised to see the greens that wet, I guess. I was kind of preparing for some firmer, harder greens.  3-under would have been a helluva score if I knew the greens were going to stay that firm.  But I felt like after playing the practice round, and with the balls bouncing over the greens, I thought, you know, it could be single digits probably to win this golf tournament.  But I guess now they are putting water on them.  I don't know if they are every day.  Hopefully they will give us the same opportunity as they did this afternoon.  Hopefully they will put water on them tonight.  But all in all I played fairly well.  I shot even on the front.  3-under on the back.


Q.  How often have you played Greensboro?

TIM HERRON:  I think this is my third year.


Q.  A lot of guys have been saying they have never seen the course playing like this.  Is this different than any of your past experiences here?

TIM HERRON:  Like what?  As in difficulty?


Q.  Difficulty, drive, fairways.  They are rolling, the greens?

TIM HERRON:  I think you really have to hit some different kind of shots to feel the fairways.  I think 15, you have to really get a nice cut in there to even hold the fairway.  That's a tough one.  But, it's hard to -- it's hard to say.  It's playing tough.  I don't think the -- you have an opportunity to -- with the firm fairways, at least if you hit it in the fairway, the ball will bounce, which means it will bounce into the rough and you'll have a shorter iron out of it.  It's not playing quite as long.  It seemed to me when I hut it in the rough, I had a lot more wedges than 6- and 7-irons where you can't even advance it out here.  But I think it would have played really difficult if they kept the greens, you know, just syringe them.  But they watered them where the ball was spinning quite a bit.


Q.  Some of the players yesterday said they might lose them if they didn't put some water on them.

TIM HERRON:  Yeah.  Yeah, I felt like they watered them quite a bit where it was almost not even worth playing a practice round, I don't think because the ball was reacting totally different than it was in the practice round.


Q.  Would you be disappointed, like you said give the same opportunity? 

TIM HERRON:  I hope so.  Hopefully they will put some water on them tonight.  Yeah, I mean, Fred has a good point, I think.  Most important is to keep the golf course probably the most consistent, you know, without -- of course there's always mother nature and things like that.


Q.  Do you expect if they do it again tonight that they stop on the weekend and let it just keep --

TIM HERRON:  I think that's what they will do.  I guess in the rules they can stop, but they wouldn't have to do it tonight.  It's just nice because the greens will be soft too in the morning and I think that's when they will start firming up.  I think the playing conditions are supposed to be night tomorrow too.  Playing conditions I think will vary more compared to, you know, afternoon-morning, to morning-afternoon.


Q.  Winning Bay Hill, did it finally sink in, what did meaning to you?  When did it finally sink in?

TIM HERRON:  I'm taking two weeks off and it will sink in, I think.  It means a lot.  That's a big tournament to win.  That's Arnold Palmer's tournament.  It's an honor to win that.  You know, he's a great man.  He's done a lot for the game.  It's a very important win for me.


Q.  What has that meant for you, playing, confidence-wise?

TIM HERRON:  Right now I have confidence. I'm kind of free-willing it.  Letting it kind of go. I'm looking for that real low one.  Hopefully I'll get it this way.  It felt like today I could do it -- I start out three-putting the first hole.  Hitting it in there about three feet for -- three or four feet for eagle on No. 2 and missed that.  So I kind of started off on a bad way.  And then I hung in there and I'm shot shooting 3-under.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT