BAY HILL INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY COOPER TIRES
March 21, 1999
Tim Herron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TIM HERRON:  Thank you. 
 
TIM HERRON:  Well, about today, made a lot of putts, some lengthy ones.  I think I made, starting out on the very first hole, I think I made about a 40-footer for birdie.  And Davis had it in there about five feet, and he missed, and I missed quite a few putts.  I knew if I just kind of hung in there, you know, give myself a chance, anything can happen when the wind is blowing.  So just made a lot of putts coming down the stretch, and that is what it is all about.  That is fun. 
 

Q.  What makes you such a good wind player?
 
TIM HERRON:  Well, I think when you are hitting the ball solid, you can play in the wind.  When you are not hitting it very well, it reflects bad shots worse.  But I didn't drive it particularly as good as I did the first three days, but I got the ball around.  6, made a 15-footer for bogey there and just kept on grinding.  I knew anything could happen.  I just knew I had to make quite a few pars today. 
 

Q.  Talk about the second playoff hole.  The second shot, what your yardage was.
 
TIM HERRON:  Well, I hit a huge drive there.  I killed that drive.  And you can kind of see it up at the peak, but then you couldn't see, you know, if it was turning over, cutting, or what.  So I didn't know exactly what line.  I knew it was a decent line on it because it was getting a little dark.  Then I had 188 to the hole, and I hit 5-iron.  My caddie and I said, just hit it right at that bunker and, you know, get it up there where -- we were trying to kind of hit it, you know, right at the bunker and let the ball turn over. 
 

Q.  How far were you from the hole?
 
TIM HERRON:  I was probably about 15 feet. 
 

Q.  What iron did you say you hit into there?
 
TIM HERRON:  5-iron. 
 

Q.  I noticed several times you turned to your caddie and asked, you know, like on 17, you turned around to your caddie and asked your caddie, is it sliding?
 
TIM HERRON:  He's probably got as bad as eyes as I do.  I think it is kind of a nervous habit.  I have always kind of done that if I can't see it land.  So.... 
 

Q.  Is your eyesight less than eagle eyes?
 
TIM HERRON:  Eagle eyes -- I don't know.  What is eagle  eyes? 
 

Q.  Well, I mean, are you less than 20/20?
 
TIM HERRON:  Oh.  Well, I can see close.  I can't see real far. 
 

Q.  What are your feelings about getting into the Masters?
 
TIM HERRON:  I didn't even think about it until I was driving in the car.  I told my girlfriend, yeah, some things are going to change.  I was going to go up to Minnesota and see her. And we are going to go to The Masters now instead.  So that is not a bad deal. 
 

Q.  You have missed the cut there I think two times you have played it, but you seem to have a game that is well-suited for there.  Do you have any feelings about getting it right there?
 
TIM HERRON:  I think with this driver I have right now, I am pretty much a fader.  But I think I can draw that driver and, you know, if I just stay on top of my game, just practice an hour or two a day, you know, go back to Arizona and practice, I think it will be a good golf course for me. 
 

Q.  What does it mean for you to win against these type of guys that you beat on this type of course, these type of conditions?
 
TIM HERRON:  Well, it means a lot, you know, playing the last two days with Davis Love, world-class player, Tom Lehman, world-class player, probably in the last five years probably played the majors as good as anyone.  It is a great feeling.  It is hard to reflect right now because I am kind of still on the high.  But it was just awesome the putts were rolling in and things were happening.  I stayed very patient; I was comfortable with myself, I guess.  So I was kind of in a zone where I felt pretty comfortable out there. 
 

Q.  Do you think that moves you up kind of into the class with these guys that you can play with them for three days like this?
 
TIM HERRON:  Yeah, I think so.  I think I am not far behind.  I'm just going to keep on working on my game.  And like I said before, I have been trying to get to become a little more of a consistent golfer, which I think I have a little bit this year, instead of one that is kind of hot and cold.  I have always made a lot of cuts out here, but I haven't always finished in the top 20 in some events.  And there is a lot of money right there right now.  So I knew I was in position.  I knew just to be aggressive this week. 
 

Q.  Were there any self-doubts at all after 4 and 6?
 
TIM HERRON:  Yeah, a little bit.  I knew just to make some pars.  I made a good par save on 7, and I knew not to get overly aggressive on 8.  And I just kind of hung in there, hung in there.  Davis wasn't making many putts, and I couldn't see what Tom was doing.  Davis, if he made some putts, could have almost  run away with it.  I don't know what Tom did.  He probably could have too. 
 
But I made a lot of par saves and just hung in there. 
 

Q.  To escape the fourth with a bogey, was that huge?
 
TIM HERRON:  Yeah, that was huge.  That was a big momentum for myself.  I am like:   I only dropped one shot here. Just keep on plugging it out.  And then to hit a good drive on 6, and then I end up making bogey.  But other than that, I played well. 
 

Q.  With a victory this early in the year, does it start getting you thinking about Ryder Cup?
 
TIM HERRON:  I haven't thought of it right now, but I got to see where I stand, I guess in the Ryder Cup.  All I know is I like playing in Florida.  Hopefully get the Grand Slam. 
 

Q.  We talk about some of the young players in their 20s, beyond Ernie and David and Tiger, also mentioned guys like Stricker and Appleby and Furyk and guys like that.  You now have as many wins as they do.  Have you ever thought that you have the game to be mentioned with these young guns?
 
TIM HERRON:  Like who?  Like Stricker? 
 

Q.  Furyk, just that whole --
 
TIM HERRON:  Yeah, I just noticed.  I look at the money list quite a bit, and just see how guys are doing.  Because I know most of the guys, and it is kind of nice to see how they are doing.  I notice that those guys are consistent and getting the money quite a bit, which means top-tens and things like that.  That was kind of my goal this year to get a little more consistent.  If I had an opportunity, more opportunities you have to win you can win. 
 

Q.  What keeps you from being consistent in the past; what has been the hurdle?
 
TIM HERRON:  You know, just kind of up-and-down with the putter and the driving, but I am working on it and temperament, I guess.  I am trying to stay a little more low key. 
 

Q.  When you were coming up in Minnesota was Tom already a star, was he kind of a guy you looked up to or an idol?
 
TIM HERRON:  Yeah. 
 

Q.  Thoughts about him --
 
TIM HERRON:  That was the first time we have ever played, I think competitive golf together, we have played practice round together before together, but first time in a tournament, that was only two holes, but, yeah, he is a great golfer and a great family man and, you know, good for the PGA TOUR. 
 

Q.  Your putt on 18 in regulation, talk about that, what happened there?
 
TIM HERRON:  My first one? 
 

Q.  Yes.
 
TIM HERRON:  Well, I hit a great shot in there and I just kind of wanted to coax that putt down there. It didn't look like it was going to break because Davis Love's didn't break too much.  I kind of hit it on the right line and it just seemed like there is more grass over there and it was a lot slower than I thought. Then the second time around I am like:  Well, this putt looks fast, but I think it is slower and I just kind of misread it and went to the right. 
 
TIM HERRON:  I had probably 7, 8-footer - notice how I never say exactly what it is - I have no idea what it is.  7-, 8-footer the first time around.  Then I had about an 18-footer. 
 

Q.  How are you going to celebrate tonight?
 
TIM HERRON:  I think I am just going to go eat with my parents and my girlfriend and relax and -- just try to relax.  I used to do that party thing, you know, I got to be keyed up for the TPC.  By the way, I am in the TPC, aren't I? 
 
TIM HERRON:  All right.  (laughs) That is what I said to my caddie, he said, don't even check, don't even check.  We are in it. 
 

Q.  What did you hit in on 18 both those times?
 
TIM HERRON:  I hit 6-iron both times.  Both -- one from the right side of the fairway which is a little more into the wind, I had to kind of hit it up into the wind.  From the left side I was a little further back, but it was riding the wind a little more. 
 

Q.  Joke the other day about, somebody asking you about working out.  But sounds like what you just said, you approach the game a little more seriously than you did a couple years ago?
 
TIM HERRON:  Yeah, I mean, it is a game.  You don't want to get too serious on it or it will drive you crazy, but, yeah, I mean, I think you just kind of have to hang in there, hang in there.  I think I have just matured a little bit as a golfer. That is a little bit.  But I have matured a little bit as a golfer. 
 

Q.  Tell us about the putt birdie putt on 16 in regulation?
 
TIM HERRON:  Wind gust got up and, you know, the last two times I backed away, were on 1 and then I made a long bomb on 10. So I am like, all right, I am backing away, no big deal.  I make a putt every time.  I hit a really good putt and the ball just lipped out on the low edge.  I thought I made it right in the right side and it caught a lot of the hole. 
 

Q.  Didn't you back away because of the crowd reaction over at 17?
 
TIM HERRON:  No.  I backed away because of the wind. 
 

Q.  I would guess you get questions about Lumpy and the nickname and eating habits, all that stuff every time you come into the interview room.  Does that ever wear on you; get tired of talking about that?
 
TIM HERRON:  Does it wear on you?  I am just joking. They call him Lumpy too - (laughter) - I hate to bring it up.  No, because it is a harmless nickname.  If they called me  something bad, it may wear on me.  But Lumpy is like the kid next door, I guess, it is not too bad. 
 

Q.  They bring other players in and ask how they are playing; seems like they bring you in, there is not a day goes by seems like where you don't take a question about excercizing, eating, do you get tired of that?
 
TIM HERRON:  Well, if I really got tired of it I will probably start -- I'd stop eating and start exercising, right. 
 

Q.  Just in terms of people out there, people kind of kid about it, but the fact that you won three tournaments, do you think people focus too much on the Lumpy and that stuff and not on the fact that you are a good golfer?
 
TIM HERRON:  No, that is fine with me.  You are only as good as you think you are, I guess.  What other people think -- you know, some guys can try to drag you down and some people or some people can build you up to much.  It is kind of what you think, I guess. 
 

Q.  Do you think Tim, your relaxed attitude will serve you well over the longhaul?
 
TIM HERRON:  I think so.  I think if I stay focused and relaxed, you know, I felt at the beginning of the year I was a little nervous and jittery and kind of moving around a little bit, I don't know what I was doing, just kind of there but I was kind of nervous, I wanted it too much.  I just felt like my game kind of came together this week and I kind of got to where I just felt real patient and easy going.  I guess that is kind of the state I want to be in. 
 

Q.  Confidence change from say, 16, 17, 18 all the way through the playoffs?
 
TIM HERRON:  No, I was just trying to stay in the zone. It was weird because the -- just trying to stay focused and I knew if I hit a good shot on 16 Tom might have some problems over there. But I can't play his game.  I just will to step up and hit that shot.  I hit it out of a divot actually on 16. 
 

Q.  The 5-iron into the green there?
 
TIM HERRON:  Yes. 
 

Q.  188 you say?
 
TIM HERRON:  Yes, out of a divot.  Was I a big help?  Was I good?  Thanks.  10 I made -- I hit in the fairway and hit a wedge and hit it up on the second tier and made about a 35-footer, 40-footer down the hill and I kind of twisted my ankle on that one.  I was doing a little dance, I don't know if that was the one that was on TV or if that one is going to be edited.  It is live?  I thought they had like two seconds deal with it or some things. 
 

Q.  When was first time Augusta popped in your head, at what point?
 
TIM HERRON:  Whenever things like that pop into my head I know to go back and don't think about that stuff.  Just keep on going forward.  But I thought about it a little bit last night and  then I thought about it a little bit walking down 18 in regulation, but then I got to what I was doing and I don't like to get ahead of myself.  I think that is the worst thing you can do in golf is getting ahead of yourself. 
 

Q.  How about after you had won, when did it pop back in?
 
TIM HERRON:  When I was driving from here to from the presentation to here. 
 

Q.  Did somebody say something or you just thought of it?
 
TIM HERRON:  Well, I was talking to my girlfriend.  I said, well, I think things are going to change because I was going to go up and see her, but now she is going to come to Augusta. Hopefully if she gets off work. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT