BAY HILL INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY COOPER TIRES
March 20, 1999
Tim Herron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TIM HERRON:  Today, it was a good day.  At the beginning, I felt pretty good.  But kind of towards the end, I was feeling good.  I thought I was going to make those last two putts.  Didn't happen.  But I kind of got to where I was feeling pretty comfortable out there.  I think all day I felt pretty comfortable.  Hopefully I can do that tomorrow. 
 

Q.  Have you ever led the round before three rounds?
 
TIM HERRON:  Yeah, one wire-to-wire in 1996. 
 

Q.  What tournament was it?
 
TIM HERRON:  Honda.  I won Texas. 
 

Q.  Does this feel like the Honda?  Do you feel any memories like --
 
TIM HERRON:  No, a little different.  I have been in this situation.  I have been in the media room now before, and you get more comfortable.  The Honda was my 7th event on Tour, and it was a whole new experience.  I didn't even know you had to talk to the press or anything like that back then.  Now I do. 
 

Q.  Davis was talking about how long you are hitting it.  How long have you been playing that driver?  What have you picked up?
 
TIM HERRON:  I have been playing that driver now for about a month.  I matched up a good shaft with it and, yeah, I am hitting it good.  I can control the flight of it.  I can kind of go at it easy, go at it hard, things like that.  So, like when I want to get a little bit more on the par 5s or something, go at it a little harder.  I don't think I intentionally do it.  I think I just do a little bit. 
 

Q.  Picked up 10, 15 yards?
 
TIM HERRON:  Yeah, I noticed the ball flight is pretty straight too.  That was kind of my goal with finding a new driver was to hit it a little straighter. 
 

Q.  What kind is it?
 
TIM HERRON:  A Ping ISI titanium.  It's a Ping. 
 

Q.  How do you feel about the conditions this week, the firm greens, do you usually play that type of -- (inaudible)?
 
TIM HERRON:  I am a high-ball hitter with my irons.  I hit a pretty high shot at 17 and stopped it pretty close to the pin there, so, I think it is better.  It is just hard to get the ball close if you are struggling a little bit, but I am hitting my irons good and I am hitting the ball in the fairway most of the time. 
 

Q.  You did say you went wire-to-wire before; correct?
 
TIM HERRON:  Yes. 
 

Q.  Just kind of tell us what goes through your mind tomorrow morning as you get ready to go out and attack the golf course, do  you do things any differently?
 
TIM HERRON:  No, you try to do the same thing as what you always do.  I don't know, you don't play 'til two so you might have to find something to do in the morning.  I will see what time I roll out of bed to do that, right? 
 

Q.  Go to church?
 
TIM HERRON:  Yeah, go to church. 
 

Q.  I would have to assume that you would prefer obviously to play the last day from the lead --
 
TIM HERRON:  I couldn't hear that. 
 

Q.  Wouldn't you prefer to be in first place going into the last day, I will have to assume?
 
TIM HERRON:  Oh, yeah.  My theory is the more shots you have the better off, I guess, you are because that is what kind of makes you win, right, more shots you are in front --  No, I am just saying some guys do like to come from behind they feel more comfortable to where they have nothing to lose or something like that.  I guess I feel comfortable, you know, kind of having the lead or whatever. 
 

Q.  You weren't nervous at all playing with Davis Love today?
 
TIM HERRON:  No, I know Davis fairly well and he has got -- he has got kind of a mild demeanor to him and he is fun to play with.  We have common friends and we talk about them quite a bit walking down the fairway and stuff. 
 

Q.  Do you watch the leader boards at all?
 
TIM HERRON:  I watched it a little bit because it was a little slow out there, so, I guess you kind of look at it.  I mean, I knew there was another day tomorrow.  I don't know, there is nothing really you can do until like the last hole, if you feel like you have a two- or three-shot lead or something, you can play it a little different, but all and all you kind of go out with a game plan and kind of play it that way. 
 

Q.  All three of you seemed to pick it up on the back 9.
 
TIM HERRON:  I think I just stayed patient; a couple of putts dropped in and that is kind of what made it.  Hit some good iron shots.  Hit a good iron shot on 16.  I just felt like I had a chance at those last two putts, kind of feeling like I was in that zone where I was going to make them.  I was feeling a little more comfortable over the putter and stuff like that.  Just didn't happen to go in, but get some opportunities tomorrow. 
 

Q.  You and Lehman up at the top of the board.  Is that a bigger deal in Minnesota where you are from or Scottsdale where both of you live now?
 
TIM HERRON:  Minnesota.  I think -- I know I am always probably going to be in Minnesota.  I love going back there in the summer because of the heat and things like that, so, I do a little travelling out of Minnesota.  I got a lot of ties, Target and a lot of outings and things like that up there.  So if I didn't have those, you know, it would be harder to get back, but I love going back there.  Summers are nice.  We can talk about the winters, but  I don't know if -- 
 

Q.  How big are the mosquitoes in the summer, about an inch?
 
TIM HERRON:  Yeah, they are, I don't know.  They vary. 
 An inch, yeah, they are probably about an inch.  Depends how far north you go. 
 

Q.  How long was the birdie putts on 17 and 18?
 
TIM HERRON:  Probably 15, 18-footer on 18 and about 10-footer on 17, 12-footer on 17. 
 
TIM HERRON:  14 is the par 3.  And Davis just hit it over and I was on the back and he putted down and I just kind of hit a putt up there and fed it in the hole.  It was about 30 feet and ended up getting there and went in the hole.  14, I hit a good 8-iron.  I thought I stiffed it.  15, hit 8-iron and thought I stiffed it.  Got up there and it was about twelve feet short of the hole and thought I left it short and it rolled right in the middle.  Then 16 I hit a 3-iron to the back edge and hit a good lag putt.  Thought I made that coming down the hill.  And 2-putted, made about a two and a half, 3-footer straight up the hill for birdie. 
 

Q.  3 and 4?
 
TIM HERRON:  3, I usually hit driver, but it was a little downwind and I elected to hit 1-iron.  Hit 1-iron, 8-iron to about 15 feet, made that.  Then 4, I hit a good drive, 3-wood just over the green and almost chipped it in, rolled right over the edge and made about a foot putt.  I hit had a good chance on No. 1 too and missed that.  So I had a few chances.  It was kind of in my range, I mean, I never knocked one super close besides the 2-putt on 16 or the other par 5, 4, so I had a couple of tap-ins, but not as many as I had the first two days. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT