BAY HILL INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY COOPER TIRES
March 19, 1999
Tim Herron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TIM HERRON:  Thank you. 
 
TIM HERRON:  Well, I probably played a little more -- well, I played pretty consistent yesterday.  I just didn't make the 20-, 15-footers as I did yesterday.  But I played solid and, you know, if I can keep the putting going and the ball-striking, because there is a couple of tough tee shots and I hit some good drives.  I only let one or two drives get away from me a little bit.  And I missed them in the right spot.  Happened to do all right. 
 

Q.  What is it about those stretch of holes on the front that you have enjoyed so much this week so far?
 
TIM HERRON:  Well, I have played -- I made par on 3 today, but I had a chance at birdie there.  I don't know, I have hit driver there in the past.  Hitting 1-iron, 3-wood, things like that; and I think it is just a better angle to the pin.  If you can get it out in the fairway, you have a pretty good birdie chance. 
 

Q.  How much different was the course?
 
TIM HERRON:  Not much different.  The greens were maybe a little softer this morning, but they started firming up right about now, right about my last three or four holes. 
 

Q.  You were saying on 18, after you finished, that you were in a groove right now.  Could you describe that?  What did it feel like?
 
TIM HERRON:  Well, I think you just kind of -- kind of in a mental groove where you can kind of focus on what is ahead of you one shot at a time instead of looking at the leaderboard and seeing, you know, what you have to do.  You are there in the present, you know if you put a good swing you have a birdie opportunity or something like that, right there at that hole that you are on. 
 

Q.  How often does that happen that you get in a groove like you are in now?
 
TIM HERRON:  I think when you are playing good, when the ball is going where you want it to go, you have more feelings of the top of your swing or something like that.  Everyone is probably a little different, little different with the putter too, kind of got to -- just a feeling where you are comfortable, I guess.  It is more of a comfortable feeling. 
 

Q.  Are you having fun right now, or is the burden of being on the top of the leaderboard, having to focus on each shot, does that take a toll on you?
 
TIM HERRON:  No, I mean, this is kind of why you play  golf.  This is what it is all about.  This is the most fun, it is being in contention and things like that.  There is two more days left, I understand that.  But, you know, that is what you practice for.  It is a nice living if you play well, but you know, it is fun to get the juices flowing and to compete.  That is why I think more than half the guys are out here playing the game. 
 

Q.  Have you led the first two rounds of a tournament before?
 
TIM HERRON:  Yeah, I won wire-to-wire in '96.  That was my first.  I think I was leading this one after three rounds -- two or three rounds, I don't know. 
 

Q.  Played the last group here --
 
TIM HERRON:  I didn't.  Came from behind. 
 

Q.  Played the last group here two years ago?
 
TIM HERRON:  Yeah.  And Texas, after my third round, I had a one-shot lead so..... 
 

Q.  What sparked the adjustment to be more aggressive off the tees around here?
 
TIM HERRON:  Well, I used to play a really strong 3-wood which I really liked and I went to a little weaker 3-wood which, yeah, I am just still trying to get comfortable with and I feel like I can hit my driver straighter than my 3-wood.  That is kind of a groove thing, I guess, you know -- 
 

Q.  If you like that stronger 3-wood, why isn't it in your bag?
 
TIM HERRON:  Well, I liked it off the tee.  I didn't say I can hit it off the ground.  I couldn't hit it above my ankle there for a while.  I took it out in Vegas because I had problems hitting it off the ground.  So now this is a good club for hitting it off the ground.  It is maybe ten yards too short for some of these par 5s up the hill, but if we get some wind, it will be a perfect 3-wood. 
 

Q.  How much did it help in that first victory where you had a couple of good players chasing you on Sunday?  I think O'Meara was in there McCumber was still playing well and bad conditions on Sunday.  Is that -- when you got into contention, is that always experience you are able to draw on?
 
TIM HERRON:  What is that? 
 

Q.  Final round was rainy, cold, good players chasing you. Have you been able to draw on that?
 
TIM HERRON:  Yeah, a little bit.  Like I said yesterday, I think it is important to try to play the golf course that you are playing.  You can't really play much of the people out there. A guy might be making hole-in-ones and eagles, there is nothing you can do about it.  You can just go out and play your own game. You know, if you are feeling comfortable you can go out and play your own game. 
 

Q.  Tom was in here a short while ago and he said he knows your whole family pretty well.  How well do you know him?
 
TIM HERRON:  Actually his brother is my manager and my  sister works for Jim Lehman who is Tom's brother and I know the family real well.  I know his dad.  He was out playing golf when I was kind of growing up so I know Tom.  We both live in Scottsdale and he is a good man and hopefully I will get to play with him tomorrow. 
 
TIM HERRON:  11, I hit driver off the tee, hit wedge in there about six feet.  Made that for birdie.  And then 4, I drove it in the middle of the fairway.  Hit it just to the front edge, chipped it to about two inches, had a good chance of going in.  Then I hit it about two feet on 5 for birdie with a wedge. 
 
TIM HERRON:  Yeah, there was a few.  I had a chance on 8 and 9 and they just didn't fall coming in. 
 

Q.  The numbers don't show it, I guess, but in a lot of ways is this a more solid round than yesterday?
 
TIM HERRON:  Yeah, it was pretty solid.  The only mishap that I had, I missed about a 4-footer on 16 for birdie.  I hit a great aggressive 3-wood right at the pin, just went over in the back bunker, had an easy bunker shot.  I left it about four feet short.  Was the only kind of bad putt I hit, but, you know, yeah, it was more consistent.  I don't know the stats or anything.  I felt like I drove it about the same today as I did yesterday. 
 

Q.  You remember your first -- what is your first memory of meeting Tom, do you remember when that was and what circumstances?
 
TIM HERRON:  Well, I remember watching him play at a state amateur at Town and Country, but he probably doesn't want to remember that because he actually had the lead.  Chris Perry ended up winning.  He made a big number on a par 5 or something, but I think that was the first time I saw Tom and then the first time I met him was I think at Stephens Point (ph).  That was the first time -- or I met his parents, I don't know. 
 

Q.  How did it develop that you hooked up with his brother as your agent?
 
TIM HERRON:  Well, he hired my sister, so what can you do?  He has got it in his family, I have to keep it in my family, I guess.  No, they do a good job, Minnesota people, and those are the type of people that I grew up with and I am glad I am with him. 
 

Q.  How did the Target thing work?  Did they approach you or did they --
 
TIM HERRON:  Actually I went to school with one of the CEO's daughters.  It actually is my younger sisters, one of her best friends, that is kind of how that emerged.  I have known the family for years so, he kind of got my sister and I in the door and talked to a few people.  
 

Q.  Do you shop there?
 
TIM HERRON:  Oh, yeah, you can pick up anything, right. I just need one of those discount cards. 
 

Q.  A lot of guys have Cadillac, Lexus on their shirts. Yours is Target.  Do you like that identification?
 
TIM HERRON:  I think it is a great store. 
 

Q.  Do you like, maybe, portray a different image for a golf fan because you are associated with --
 
TIM HERRON:  Yeah, maybe.  Could be the physique; is that what you are saying? 
 

Q.  Not necessarily.
 
TIM HERRON:  I am getting defensive. 
 

Q.  Any younger sisters that are going to get you some other deals?
 
TIM HERRON:  No, I don't think so. 
 

Q.  Just have the two sisters?
 
TIM HERRON:  Yeah, I have two sisters.  One lives in Chicago and other one is with that management group. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT