THE HERITAGE
April 24, 2011
Tim Herron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Good tournament. I know there's probably a little bit of disappointment, but also a lot of positives come out of this week. How do you feel?
 TIM HERRON: Well, I have no idea how I feel. I feel like, I don't know, like -- I don't know what I feel. I haven't been there in so long. I felt like -- it's hard to say that I could have won the tournament, but I got to 9-under -- I got 9-under on Friday. Got 9-under yesterday. And then finally kind of kept it going, bogeyed the last hole, but I felt like I had a little too much club on 18. And I came out of it, just kind of my go-to shot way right out of bounds, where you never thought you'd hit it out of bounds. I kept grinding, I hung in there. I wish I would have got the ball up and down, but it's tough to chip around here.

 Q. It's tough to chip and obviously you had to think about making it, did you know what the situation was?
 TIM HERRON: Yeah, I did. I looked at the board, I saw some guys at 12, and I thought I might as well -- I left the putt short on 17, I didn't really get into the line. I left it short. That one had a little bit of grass. We were putting about 15 holes without grass. And so the greens were pretty fast and crusty.
 17 actually, I don't know if they put water on it or something, I left it about a foot short from the hole. The chip, a little downhill, you know -- it looked decent. Did it look good on TV? Oh, I guess you are radio (laughter).

 Q. It was a great tournament for you. 
 TIM HERRON: Hopefully I'll get some confidence out of this, and keep my momentum the next few weeks. I'm going to be out -- try not to think ahead. 

 Q. Good to see you. 
 TIM HERRON: I think it was my first top 10 in three years, or about two and a half years, actually. My third year I haven't had one. You know, I wish I could say it was kind of fun. It was kind of like, I don't know, maybe if I look back in an hour or something -- I guess you can't go coulda, woulda, shoulda. 

 Q. You could have won the tournament?
 TIM HERRON: Yeah, I could have won the tournament. I hit a great putt, I just hit it too solid through the line. 

 Q. Having been there, what are the nerves and the emotions that you feel?
 TIM HERRON: Once you get out playing and you're hitting the shots and you kind of judge how far the ball is going, you get a little more confidence, you know. I hit a good shot on 17. That shot really doesn't fit my eye very well. I hit a good shot there. And 15 I actually hit a good putt and I think it bounced a little bit. So, you know, but I made a couple of bombs.

 Q. What are your thoughts for the week in total?
 TIM HERRON: I've been struggling putting, and I struggled ball-striking a little bit. And then instead of just kind of working my way into it, I stress over it and probably work on too many swing changes. But I'm trying to work on something, but it's probably not going to happen. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT