U.S. OLYMPIC SWIM TRIALS
July 3, 2016
Abbey Weitzeil
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Congrats.  What did you think of that?  
ABBEY WEITZEIL: I'm really happy with it.  It was another drop, I came into this meet at a 24.7, so to go 24.2 was awesome.  I know I'm getting closer to the higher world rankings and a better shot at Rio.  Super happy with those times for right now.  I know I definitely wanting to faster in Rio.  Who doesn't?  I'm super happy with the job and I couldn't have asked for anything more.   
 Q.  Abby, what would you say about this week, obviously it couldn't having much better with two victories.  
ABBEY WEITZEIL: I'm super stoked.  I came to this meet in 2012 as a 16-year-old just making the cuts, just to participate, and to go from then to now in four years winning events that I was thinking about during that time, it's just amazing.   
 Q.  Does it seem like a dream?  
ABBEY WEITZEIL: Kind of. It hasn't set in exactly what I've done.  I think about it and it's just amazing.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
ABBEY WEITZEIL: They broke!  One of the earrings broke.  They were brand new, too.  I was really sad, but I always race in earrings.  I never take my earrings out, even at practice.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
ABBEY WEITZEIL: I've done double tapers before and they've proven okay for me, because I went to Short Course Worlds in 2014, and I tapered for that, and then I came home and I didn't go to Junior Nationals -- I did, but I didn't participate, I only swam relay to help my team out, and that's when I broke the American Record off the double taper, so I'm not scared of them, especially since I'm a sprinter, and I've proven to do better on longer tapers anyway, so I'm comfortable with it.  I know I'm in good hands with the coaches there, so I'm not worried about it.   
 Q.  What do you expect for the next month, the next three weeks, since you've never been a member of the Olympic Team, with the team and training so forth?  
ABBEY WEITZEIL: It's been crazy.  I've had experience at Worlds, different coaches coaching you, but I mean, this is the Olympics.  It's a whole different experience.  I'm just going to take it all in.  I'm not afraid to ask the veterans for help, or as questions or something.  Everybody is there to help you.  I'm just excited.   
 Q.  Did you expect to come here and win twice?  
ABBEY WEITZEIL: I was going for that, yeah, I knew I could do it.  I was coming here to win and make the team so it's not a surprise, but it's a -- it's still, you know, even if you're expecting it and you know you can do it, when you touch that wall with the "1" next to it, it's a huge sensation of oh my gosh, this happened.   
 Q.  Where did your confidence come from?  
ABBEY WEITZEIL: My training.  I know I've been working really, really hard I know I have the speed for the 50, I've been working on endurance for the 100, and I knew I just had to put in the work for it.   
 Q.  What was the hardest part about this week?  You obviously got a lot of 1s.  Where was the challenge?  
ABBEY WEITZEIL: I think the hardest part was just how long the meet was the duration of the meet.  It's an eight-day meet and most of the days I wasn't swimming, so just coming here and just pretty much sitting and waiting for a 50-second race and a 25-second race or whatever.  It's definitely a long process so that's the hardest part, staying off your feet, sitting in your hotel room for hours just trying to rest, you're not doing anything.   
 Q.  For someone who has watched you a lot, you did here what you did in your high school meets.  
ABBEY WEITZEIL: It's a big change.   
 Q.  But you seemed to transition it so well.  
ABBEY WEITZEIL: The biggest part.  Honestly swimming is a mental game it really it.  If you put in the work for it you can get the results out if you can mentally prepare for a race.  It's -- honestly if you don't get in your own head and if you're just there, trust your body, trust that you know how to do it, trust you've trained for it, you'll do it.  A lot of people just psych themselves out and get super nervous and you've just got to learn how to control the nerves.   
It's okay to be nervous before your race, everyone is nervous before their race, I'm going to tell you that right now.  I was nervious, but I wasn't as nervous as I've been before, but you still get the butterflies, and your blood gets pumping but you can use that and channel that in a certain way, and some people haven't learned how to do that yet, and I think I've gotten a good hold of it.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
ABBEY WEITZEIL: You can overthink it, honestly, you can think sit there and think and dwell on your race.  I honestly -- before my 100, I had the whole day off because there were no prelims.  I went and saw "Finding Glory" because I wanted to keep my mind busy.  I didn't want to think about my race.  I wanted to have the day and then zone in when I need to, because if you overthink your race, you get in trouble.  So I went to a movie.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
ABBEY WEITZEIL: I saw it twice.  I love that movie, it's great.   
 Q.  You saw it before you came to Omaha?  
ABBEY WEITZEIL: Yes, I saw it before I came to Omaha and then I saw it in the theater here, because I went with my whole family, my cousins and stuff.  The theaters are comfortable.  They have reclining seats!  I just laid there!   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
ABBEY WEITZEIL: Friday, there were no prelims.  I came and watched someone swim, but other than that I went and saw a movie and slept and ate.  Kept my mind busy.   
 Q.  You said you are excited to do relays, what do you think about that?  
ABBEY WEITZEIL: I love relays!  They're so fun!  I have always loved relays, and it's going to be -- you know, it's always an intense time.  It's crazy, you do get nervous, especially the relays are all so close, and you're about do dive in and everyone is right there, and you're like, well, here I go, diving in, but the ready rooms are so much more fun with relay teams.  It's awesome.   
 Q.  Have you had any moments with Anthony Ervin?  
ABBEY WEITZEIL: Yeah, yeah.  We're both from Canyons.  He's come up a lot.  We're friends.  He's come and trained with us a couple times, and I've known him from being on travel meets with him and stuff.  For sure I saw him after his 50 and he saw me after my prelims and finals, and we're like, good job!  We gave each other hugs.  It was fun.  He's a great guy.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
ABBEY WEITZEIL: Oh, yeah.   
 Q.  What's going on over there?  
ABBEY WEITZEIL: I don't know.  Secret!  Just kidding!   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT