NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 23, 2013
Tiago Splitter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tim Duncan, first all‑NBA team, etcetera.   Second season with him, what's it been like to play with a guy who you know is going to be in the Hall of Fame?  
TIAGO SPLITTER:   He's great, man.   This guy, he's a worker, great talent.   He shows everybody all these years all the basketball he has.   It's an honor to play with him and be on the court with him every night.   I'm very proud, and I hope him the best.   
   
 Q.   You seem to have found your spots in Game 2.   Was it just about being active?   
TIAGO SPLITTER:   Just do what I'm doing all the season.   Second game I felt better.   I felt like I was running better and could do my place, my running to the basketball.   Tony was really, really finding everybody in the spots.   He found the shooters, he found the rollers, so I was able to have this position and score more the basketball.   That's about offense.   But defense I think is the most important.   When we shut down Randolph and Gasol, we really got to keep doing that, not letting them to play comfortable in the game.   
   
 Q.   What have you guys been able to do against Zach that you think has worked so far?   
TIAGO SPLITTER:   Well, he's a very talented guy, very active close to the basket.   He always tries to find a position, and that's what we've got to do.   We've got to be there before him, don't let him grab that position, and if not we're screwed.   He's very tall and has a great touch close to the basket.   We've got to be prepared and play physical and mentally with him.  
   
 Q.   Is keeping him off the offensive boards pretty much half the battle with that?   
TIAGO SPLITTER:   It's a great part of the defense is being aggressive in the box‑outs, but it's not easy.   He's always trying to sneak there and find the space.   You know, from the weak side he always dunks very well.   He's an aggressive guy that you've got to fight him 48 minutes.  
   
 Q.   What did you take from the experience of last year?   
TIAGO SPLITTER:   Learn.   I think everybody learned from that series.   We knew that‑‑ we know already that it's not done.   I mean, it's 2‑0 but nothing's done.   We have to fight a lot to close this series, so I think we learn from last year that we never got to be on our heels because it's the Playoffs and everybody is going to play like it's the last day in their life.   Memphis is going to be really hard.   The crowd, the players are going to be fired up.   Still a lot of series left.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT