QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 11, 2014
Alisa Kleybanova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. KLEYBANOVA/D. Cibulkova
  5‑5 [ret.]

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Congratulations.   Obviously it's not the way anyone wants to win a match, but you must be pleased to get your first singles victory of the year. 
ALISA KLEYBANOVA:   Well, yeah, it's a bit weird to win my first match of the year like that, but I'm still happy about it because I worked hard.   I have trained a lot, and, you know, at some point I would, you know, end up winning a match. 
It's a pity that we didn't play a full match today with Dominika, because I was really looking forward to that.   Always had great battles before, and I was really hoping to have a great match today.
You know, she's on top of her game now.   It was a very interesting challenge for me.   But, you know, I finished like that.   I'm really sorry for that, and hopefully she will feel better.
Meantime, I will try to prepare my best for my next match and hopefully win the second round, too.

Q.   Can you tell us a little about how you feel physically at the moment?   Do you feel your body is at its best, the best it's ever been?   Is it over the treatment and stuff that you received about a year ago?
ALISA KLEYBANOVA:   Yeah.   Health‑wise, everything is over.   You know, I have been training a lot.   I didn't play tournaments already last year.   I made my full comeback.   I'm looking forward to play all season, you know, here, and I have full schedule of tournaments planned.
I'm feeling really, you know, confident and good about it.   Then, you know, talking about my shape right now, it's really hard to say, because I played only two matches this year and a half match today.
You know, in almost two months is not that much.   So I would say that I still need to get into the rhythm of tournaments, to get more competition in, you know, because training‑wise I did a lot in the last couple of months, because of course I didn't play all year last year.   So during the offseason I really worked hard because I didn't have to take a rest, you know, as all the other players did after the tough year of tournaments.
So I really took advantage of, you know, extra time I had to prepare for this year.   And now I think it's all about just playing matches, competing.   You know, of course I'm not expecting anything right now from myself.   It's tough to predict what's gonna happen, but I know that I have put a lot of hard work into my trainings, and one day it's just gonna pay off for sure.   I just have to keep doing the same thing.
I really enjoy.   That's the most important thing.   I enjoy playing and being out there on the court.   I'm really looking forward to compete, you know, and keep playing tournaments.

Q.   Game‑wise, can you tell us where you are, how far you are from, you know, the top‑20 player that you were before you stopped?
ALISA KLEYBANOVA:   You know, as I said, it's tough to say.   I need to play matches.   I need to play against different players.   It's hard to say, but, you know, just playing two, three matches, it's not enough.
I need to, you know, to compete.   You need to get more matches in to see which level you're at and to play against obviously different players, different levels, to see, because it's all ‑‑ you know, you compare to the others.   You can't just go in the court and say, Okay, I'm in my best shape ever.   But then maybe you go out there and it doesn't work.
Today, for example, I felt really good, really positive about this match, but I was struggling a little bit in the middle, was making a little bit too many errors, you know, was trying to put my game together.
I still felt really good about myself.   You know, I know it's not always that things work for you every day, but if you feel good sometimes things get off, and the most important is just, you know, to be calm, to be concentrated on what you're doing and, you know, be positive and just keep doing your things till everything go your way. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT