PAC-12 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 8, 2019
Lindsay Gottlieb
Kristine Anigwe
Recee Caldwell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Stanford - 72, Cal - 54
COACH GOTTLIEB: Really tough one for us.  Thought we had a great opportunity there.  I'm extremely proud of the way our kids fought, and I told them in the locker room, what I'm proud of is that 4 for 15, 2 for 15, 2 for 10 from three of our starters will never happen again.  It just won't happen again.  To have a one-possession game speaks to how they bought into our messages about being better against Stanford, how they hung tough when it was hard.
I think we're going to get a shot against a team of this caliber in the NCAA tournament at some point, maybe in the first round, second round, whatever it is.  And I think we're going to be ready because of the way that we approached this.
Credit Stanford, they did enough to win the game.  They frustrated us on the offensive end, and we figured it out too late, I think.  And we had a couple break downs on defense that they capitalized.
Kianna had just some dagger threes that were huge, so credit to them.  I'm proud of our players.  I'm really proud of the fact that they won games we needed to win when our backs were against the wall.  So we'll be playing in the NCAA tournament, and have another shot to do something really special, which I think this team is capable of.
Q. It seemed you guys kept on battling back to get within one within two, but couldn't get that lead to maybe put some more pressure on them.  Then I think you were down three, and Coffee hit a three, which was only her sixth of the year.  Was that a big thing?  You couldn't get over the hump to put a little more pressure on them?
COACH GOTTLIEB: Exactly.  We were down.  We had the early lead, and we were down 3 at the half.  They came out, we didn't start the second half great.  And we could have folded when we were down 7.  Called a timeout, and battled back, and it was at three for a while.
I genuinely felt if we could get over that hump, we'd tie it and win the game.  It puts some pressure on them.  I thought there were a couple big turnarounds.  There was the one where there was a questionable non-call and got the three-point play and that extended it to five, and we were down two, and came right back and hit a three, and it was at two again, and then when we had several possessions where it was down three, I thought we were going to hit a three, you know.  We had it cooking here with these two, and two-man actions and I thought we were going to get over the hump, and we didn't.
And credit to them, when you have the chances and you don't take advantage, a great team is going to eventually do what they need to do.
Q. You're ninth from the floor.  How much of that was Stanford and the game plan you knew what they were going to come with, and how much was things you thought just didn't fall tonight?
KRISTINE ANIGWE: Stanford always comes with a really good game plan.  And I was ready for the intensity of the defense, and personally like I've been playing really well against Stanford this season, so I knew they were going to try something different.
I think our guards, well, our guards shot really well tonight.  Recee was 7 for 15, like you can't really guard that.  I think if we would have capitalized when Anna was on the bench, it would have been a different outcome, but we didn't.
I think that's what it came down to.  For me to be 4 of 15, and for us to still be in the game, shows the talent of our team.  Like Coach said, this doesn't happen again, you know?  Our starters don't go below 30% from the field goal.
Q. Receé, curious on your part.  Kristine's getting looks, some of the same looks she got yesterday, and it seemed like she was doing everything possible, and the ball just wasn't falling at times.  It seemed there was a lid on the basket, and you're running the offense, you're facilitating.  Is there a time where you think I have to make a different pass, go a different option, or do you just keep pounding away thinking the ball is going to fall?  Because it looked like there was a lid on the basket.  There were some even though she was getting good Rooks?
RECEÉ CALDWELL: I never lose my trust in KA.  She's proven time and time again that she's gone 30 pieces on triple-teams, you know?  So we'll continue to pound away at her.  And she never really has these nights, you know.  Sometimes -- I mean, shooters always have these nights.  I've had a lot of them this season.
But like I said, we were -- like Kristine and G said, we were still in the game.  A couple go down at certain times and we win that game.  Just got to go back and game plan and get ready for the tournament.
COACH GOTTLIEB: I also thought, maybe I was watching it different, we took 30 threes.  We took 30 threes.  I thought in the first half Tara said someone other than Kristine's going to beat us.  I mean, I would do that when she's had 25 and 20.  And I thought Christine kicked it out extremely well in the first half.  And Asha Thomas is the career three-point leader at our school.  We have a ton of trust in her.  She's one of the most steady kids, and she went 1 for 10 from three.  It happens.  I believe because of who that kid is, she's going to make 10 for 10 in the NCAA Tournament.  I really do.  She's hit 7 in the NCAA Tournament game, right?
And then I thought our offense looked better in the second half when we were in and out, and in and out.  Are they going to make it easy on Kristine?  No.  But look, Tay took 15 shots and Teisy took 15 shots and Kianna took ten shots.  I thought we figured out how to get a little inside out going in the second half, and we just didn't make shots.  And Stanford doesn't make it easy on you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT