U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2018
Vasek Pospisil
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. NADAL/V. Pospisil   
6-3, 6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What's the bottom line on how you feel?  What was it like playing against him?  
VASEK POSPISIL: Bottom line?  Well, I just felt like physically I was having some problems.  It was very humid.  I felt like it was a sauna.  I felt like the air was so hot.  I don't know, I was obviously sweating a lot.  Kind of ran out of steam.   
But he was playing so well.  He started unbelievably well.  I didn't do anything wrong in the beginning.  He was really, I mean, on top of it right from the first point.  It made it tough for me.   
But then I was playing really well.  Yeah, I just kind of physically and mentally got a little tired at one point in the match.  He just is relentless.  He pounced on that.  I lost any momentum I had there in the second set.  Then it was just one-way traffic.  It was just very tough.   
 Q.  How does he compare?  You played all four of the top guys.  What is it like playing him?  
VASEK POSPISIL: I played Rafa once before.  It was nothing like this.  I mean, he wasn't playing at as high a level that he's used to playing.  Felt like a very different player today than when I played him last time.   
I felt like I played much better, too, than when I played him last time.  Yeah, he was, I don't know, just playing at a really high level.  You have to play pretty impressive tennis to beat him.  Playing like this, I mean, not much I could have done.  I felt like I was playing pretty well, but he was just the better player today, for sure.   
 Q.  Playing on Ashe?  
VASEK POSPISIL: I enjoyed it actually.  I felt like it almost plays a little bit like an indoor court in some ways because it's quite covered.  The only trouble for me was the humidity.  I mean, I just in general can struggle in humidity.  It didn't help my case today.  I felt like I was hitting the ball really well.  I think that was just an extra challenge which isn't ideal because challenges are great enough when you're playing someone like Rafael.   
Yeah, it was tough.   
 Q.  You had a bit of a (touching throat)?  
VASEK POSPISIL: I was just bloated.  I threw up a couple times.  It's just because I was trying to put food.  I was drinking too much.  I'm sweating more than I'm able to replace.  It just makes it a challenge sometimes to fuel up on the court.  Sometimes I don't have any room in my stomach.   
 Q.  The partnership with Verdasco, how did that come about?  
VASEK POSPISIL: Pretty random.  Just texted me.  I was like, yeah, I don't have a partner.  That's it.   
 Q.  Talk about the humidity today.  You played on an outside court, first match.  Compare the conditions.  
VASEK POSPISIL: Yeah, it was just warmer today.  I don't know.  The air seemed very hot.  I just felt like, I don't know, body heat was higher.  I was sweating more than the first day.  It was just a little bit tougher that way, I guess.  Both days I was playing in the evening with no sun, so that was pretty similar.  Today was a little bit warmer.  The air was warmer a little bit.  I don't know if it was more humid, but it felt like it.   
 Q.  Why is it so special playing against Rafa?  
VASEK POSPISIL: I mean, he makes you go for it and play to the highest of your level.  He just makes you really push your level and play better than you're used to playing.  If you want to have a chance to win, you almost have to play like that.   
Yeah, physically he's at a very high level.  Physical and mental parts are so, so strongly connected.  Obviously then he's mentally very tough, too, because he's physically very strong.  I mean, if you're doing a good job on your fitness, not getting as tired, mentally it becomes easier to concentrate.   
I know that from when I'm playing in different conditions that are more difficult and less difficult for me, mentally I can be completely two different players.  If I'm not exhausted or tired, pretty stable.  Because he's so strong physically, also very strong mentally, yeah, which makes him very tough to play.   
The quality of his strokes is really impressive.  He hits the ball about a lot of power and spin.  He covers the court extremely well.  You have to go for it and play riskier than other players.   
 Q.  Today was Daniel's last Grand Slam match.  The players will plan or intend any party for Daniel this year?  
VASEK POSPISIL: Party?  Well, he had an event in Toronto.   
 Q.  Besides that?  
VASEK POSPISIL: We'll have a party, for sure, at some point.  I don't know.  For sure.  He's still playing Davis Cup, so we'll do something.  There might be something unofficial.  There will be something official I'm sure at the Davis Cup on the court.  That I don't know.  Tennis Canada, responsibility of Tennis Canada, for sure, to do something nice for Daniel.   
The players, yes, we'll definitely have a nice going away for him at the end of the tie.  Haven't spoken to him about that, but there's still time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT