ROGERS CUP
August 6, 2018
Vasek Pospisil
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








B. CORIC/V. Pospisil
6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. I guess if you could start with just an assessment of your performance tonight and what challenge specifically Borna presented you with.
VASEK POSPISIL: Well, I thought Borna played really well.  I thought he served extremely well, the best I've -- I don't know.  I mean, I practiced with him a couple times and played him once, and I thought he served extremely well today.
And, yeah, I don't think it was -- I don't think that I was too far, there was too big of a difference.  Just maybe I was not as relaxed as I would have liked to have been, and I think that's maybe the only thing.  Was playing with good energy at times and just maybe put a little bit too much pressure on myself before the tournament.
Q. Is that because you're playing here at home in Canada?  Is it something that sort of weighs on your mind more than just a regular stop on the tour?
VASEK POSPISIL: Yeah, sometimes.  I mean, obviously, I love playing at home.  I was really looking forward to the match.
But just today was -- you know, I still think I played a decent match.  It was just -- I think the only thing kind of missing was just being a little bit more relaxed.  I think I was rushing a little bit.  I was rushing my serve a little bit.
And, yeah, of course I want to do well.  I mean, I haven't had a great last couple years, and I'm kind of maybe just a little bit anxious to, you know, do well at some of these big events now.
Q. You mentioned that, you know, maybe you got a little nervous performing in front of that home crowd, but it also seemed like you used it to your advantage in that first set.  You showed a lot of energy.  How important was that for your energy in the game?
VASEK POSPISIL: Yeah, well, I was trying kind of get going, loosen up a little bit.
And, yeah, there was definitely some good moments in that first set where, you know, where I kept taking some momentum.  I think that 3-All game was crucial because the balls were really dead at that point, and I wasn't getting any free points.
And I think if I was able to hold at 3-All and the new balls, I think that could have kind of let loose a couple of points the next game, and I don't know.  I think that could have changed the complexion of the first set.
Because, I mean, when the balls get old with the humidity, they're completely different when they're old.  And I think that didn't help that game at 3-All, and that, ultimately, was the end of the first set in some ways.
Yeah, honestly, a credit to him too.  I think he played really well.
Q. And it also seemed like you had your drop shot going on pretty well in today's match.  How important is that to your game?
VASEK POSPISIL: Well, it's not really a big part of my game, but sometimes -- he's a great defender and he stays pretty far back and it's tough to hit through him, especially tonight.  Like I said, after the rain, the balls were kind of -- didn't really have anything on them.
So I felt like it wasn't so easy to hit through them to the baseline, and so I just kind of -- a couple of moments just saw how far back he was after the drop shot.  Like I said, it's not a big part of my game, but it's a shot I'm able to hit.  So if I feel like some moments in the match that it's the right thing to do tactically, Ill do it.
Q. Up next you have doubles still with Daniel Nestor.  How much does it mean for him to choose you to play with him in one of his final tournaments as a pro?
VASEK POSPISIL: It means a lot, actually.  I've been really excited about it.  You know, Daniel has been a great role model for me even when I started Davis Cup.
And, I mean, when I was 17, 18, coming up, it was, like, a huge goal of mine, and I'm not even kidding, like, to play like a match with Daniel.
And, obviously, when you're young, you're not thinking -- you know, you don't know when he's going to retire.  I mean, funny, back then even I thought he was going to retire.
But, yeah, I mean, I just -- obviously, our relationship and friendship, you know, it's evolved since then, but I remember being so excited to finally play with him for the first time in Ecuador.
And, yeah, I mean, he's meant a lot to me, actually, like, really has.  So I was very, very happy that, you know, I'm the one playing with him here in his last Rogers Cup.
Q. Do you feel like having guys like yourself and Milos around have kind of kept him around the game longer?  You guys had a great run to the semifinals against Serbia.  Do you think that maybe helped give him a second wind in his career?
VASEK POSPISIL: Possibly.  I think maybe for -- probably it plays a smaller role than we think.  You know, I think he's just very -- you know, he's a great competitor.  He's a champion.
I don't think he -- he's been playing for this long because he wants to win matches, win tournaments.  And he's won so many over his career that, you know, I can see why it might -- you know, maybe he played for so long, you know, because he's just -- he's won everything.  So I think it might take a while to kind of think like, Oh, maybe it's time to retire.
But, yeah, I don't think personally -- I mean, it's a question for him, but I don't think Milos or myself or anyone had too much of an impact on him staying.  I think maybe just the Davis Cup was a little bit of a kind of cherry on the pie or whatever the expression is.
But just kind of, yeah, a little bit bonus for him maybe, but I don't think ultimately that that decision was anything to do with myself or Milos.
Q. How would you assess Daniel's ability last night to handle the bombs that you were dropping on him at his retirement roast and how much preparation did you put into that repertoire of zingers that you threw his way?
VASEK POSPISIL: Well, Daniel was the most impressive of anyone last night for sure.  He's very witty with his comebacks.  I think Milos got roasted the most last night with Daniel's comebacks.
No, he's -- yeah, he's a really funny guy, and, yeah, he's, obviously, quick on his feet.  Not literally, but yeah.  (Laughing.)
I mean, I put a little bit of preparation into it, not too much, because I was told that, you know, just to come up with three or four kind of things.
So, yeah, it was pretty natural to talk about Daniel on stage, but I had a couple I prepared for a few hours before the dinner, before the roast.
Q. More or less nervous than going into an ATP match in that setting last night?
VASEK POSPISIL: I was pretty nervous, actually.  I was nervous.  I mean, I don't -- I'm not used to talking in front of a lot of people.  So, yeah, but it was fun.  I mean, it was a cool experience, and I was really happy that I was able to do it.
I wish I was able to stay for the whole thing and for Daniel's speech, but I had to go.  I came back to practice here late last night after the roast to get used to the night conditions.
But, yeah, I was really happy to be at least a part of that in some way.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT