ROGERS CUP
July 30, 2016
Daniel Nestor
Vasek Pospisil
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MURRAY-SOARES/Nestor-Pospisil
6-4, 6-7, 10-7
An interview with:
DANIEL NESTOR
-and- VASEK POSPISIL
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Obviously chemistry is huge in doubles.  This week was all about building that for you guys to an extent.  How do you feel about where things are at going into the Olympics now?
DANIEL NESTOR: We feel fine.  I mean, we played some good matches.  You know, we didn't play our best but we played well.
I don't think we had any doubts about anything, which is good.  I think it's just a matter of executing.
Today these guys were just a little bit more solid.  They made a few more balls at the key moments.  You know, I started the match pretty slow.  Then, you know, we got back into it.  You know, they put a lot of first serves in in the third-set tiebreaker and played solid doubles.
Q. You guys have probably heard by now the Bryan brothers withdrew from the doubles in the Olympics.  Do you think that opens up the draw there?
VASEK POSPISIL: It's one team that's, you know, for sure -- well, I guess they are not any team; they are the Bryans.  But it's not like they have been dominating the way they have in the previous years.  I feel like it's a little bit more open now.  They are one of the contending teams that's pulled out so that's good for other teams, but it's not like a shocking, like an incredible opportunity now.
I think there are a lot of teams that are playing well right now that are gold-medal contenders.  They are one of them.  Obviously it's better for us and for the others, but...
Yeah, it will be weird not having them there, I guess, because they are the Bryans and they seem to be the team to watch at every big event.
Q. I'm just wondering in terms of the chemistry between both of you, how do you help each other stay positive when the other player might be going through a rough patch or maybe missing a couple of shots here and there?
DANIEL NESTOR: Well, that's part of doubles.  It goes without saying.  You just show support and keep the energy up and, you know, just focus on the next point.  I don't think it's any secret.
It's just, you know, keeping the same mentality of being positive, good energy.  You know, we have confidence in each other that we're going to turn it around eventually.  When you play at the highest levels, that's what's gonna happen.  So I don't think you ever have that worry.  At least I don't with Vasek.
VASEK POSPISIL: Not for me.  I mean, my problem is more getting down on myself than my partner.  If I miss balls, I don't get -- like today, for example, I was not playing as well as I -- I mean, that was not a very good performance from my side.  And especially, I don't know, just as the match was going on, I felt like my level was dropping, which wasn't good.  I feel a little bit responsible for especially that third set.  That was pretty poor returning from my side.  I usually return better than that.
So that's disappointing.  I just feel like that I kind of gave them a couple of points that I shouldn't have and that I kind of -- that makes the difference, especially when it's a super-breaker.  I think if I was just making the balls that I'm supposed to make and then, yeah, it's a different story.
Q. What's your plan now for you two?  Will you stay here and train for a bit?  Do you know when you're both heading to Rio?
VASEK POSPISIL: Yeah, we're going on Monday.  Yeah.
Q. You both have been to the Olympics before.  I'm wondering what you might like to do or take in differently this time, what you might like to experience that's different this time around at the Games.
DANIEL NESTOR: I haven't even thought about that.  I mean, I've seen quite a few events over the years.  Probably when I get down there kind of figure that stuff out.
I don't know where Canada is strong in other sports necessarily, so I'll get more of a feel for that when we get down there and try and support some athletes and, you know, go see some other events.
Q. You have been to so many Olympics now.  Do they kind of still have a special feeling or does it feel like just another tournament?
DANIEL NESTOR: It doesn't definitely feel like just another tournament.  It's maybe not as exciting for the athlete that's going for the first or second time.  It's exciting for me because I think we have a chance to win a medal, so for that reason I will be very focused and we'll do everything possible to play our best in the tournament, and, you know, just focus on that.
Q. You guys obviously played together in London together and you have memories from that, but I'm just wondering if you remember when Daniel won in 2000 if you had watched it as a kid?
VASEK POSPISIL: Actually, I'd be lying if I said I remembered.  I don't like to BS, so I don't have any memories.  I was too young maybe, or, I don't know, I was 10, but I just don't -- I mean, I obviously know he won the medal, but I don't have a memory of watching that match.
Sorry, Danny.
DANIEL NESTOR: That's all right.
Q. Safe to say you do remember?
DANIEL NESTOR: I do remember, yeah.
Q. Do you care to expand on that?  It obviously is a really big moment in your career.
DANIEL NESTOR: Yeah, maybe I can take something from what happened the previous tournament at the US Open that time.  I felt like we left a lot out there, Lareau and I.
We really, you know, came together when it mattered most for the Olympics.  And maybe today, maybe we feel like we left a little bit out there, and maybe, you know, we'll bring our best when it's most important there.
There is always something you can learn from every match, and today, for me, I need to start a little better.  I was not making enough returns at the beginning of the match on second shots.  Then as the match went on, I started playing a little bit better.
But as I said, they played solid.  That's what they do.  They are a very solid team.  Nothing really spectacular, but they have had a very good season, and they're one of the best teams.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT