ROGERS CUP
July 28, 2016
Daniel Nestor
Vasek Pospisil
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








NESTOR-POSPISIL/Kyrgios-Sock
7-6, 0-1 [Ret.]
An interview with:
DANIEL NESTOR -and-
VASEK POSPISIL
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. I guess the obvious question:  What was it like?  I saw it seemed a little weird in the beginning, warming up against Jack.  What was it like warming up against him and playing against him and trying to figure him out?
VASEK POSPISIL: Yeah, it was a little bit strange, for sure, because it's the first time we have ever played each other on a doubles court.  Any time we step on a doubles court, we're always on the same team.  So it was definitely a little bit weird.
Yeah, but it was tough because I thought it was a really high-level match.  I know his strengths and weaknesses and he knows mine.  It was kind of like -- yeah, it was a little bit like a chess match, I guess.
But, no, it was definitely strange playing against him.  I'm not used to that because we have been friends for a few years now.  It was strange.
Q. It seemed that both of them were joking around a lot, smiling a lot.  You guys were taking it a lot more seriously.  Would you agree with that assessment?
DANIEL NESTOR: Sure.  That's their personality.  They like to play with the crowd and have fun out there, singles or doubles.  A lot of times it works for them.  Sometimes it doesn't work for them, but, you know, I thought we did a good job of focusing.  Regardless of the fact that they were having a good time, they still wanted to win that first set, at least.
You know, I thought it was, like Vasek said, high-quality tennis.  We were fortunate maybe on a couple of shots but we got through.  Now we're in the next round.  We're not complaining.  (Smiling.)  We'll see what happens.
Q. Two of your three matches now at the Rogers Cup this year have ended with your opponent retiring.  Is your intimidation factor just through the roof right now?
VASEK POSPISIL: It must be (smiling).  It must be.  All it can give me is confidence.
Q. On a serious note, how good does it feel to be reunited, you two?  You didn't finish the match normally, but are you starting to get excited now being together back on the court?
VASEK POSPISIL: Honestly, like, I was really enjoying it out there.  Our opponents is another thing, but playing with Daniel, like, it was really nice because I haven't played with him for a while, and I feel like, you know, with the Olympics in mind and stuff, we're trying to get ready for that.
But I felt like he played fantastic the whole match today.  It was really nice to play alongside somebody like Daniel who honestly I get along so well with and he's so experienced.  Honestly, it might sound kind of strange, but it was actually very enjoyable and I'm really happy about it, yeah.
DANIEL NESTOR: For me, I don't get to play with guys, you know, that are top singles, top doubles players.  Not taking away anything from my partners full time, but it's a different level playing with Vasek.  So any time that opportunity arises, I feel fortunate.  I will try and make the most of these next few weeks, and hopefully we can play more in the future.
Q. Actually building off that, you guys have played together a lot but not all that regularly.  How do you find when you're playing with other people and coming together?  Is it easy?  Is it hard?
DANIEL NESTOR: It's tough with certain partners, but as I said, he's one of the best.  When you play with someone who understands doubles, a great athlete and a great ball striker and moves great, that makes it a lot easier.
So, I mean, I think there is partners over the years you gel with right away and he's one of them.  There is guys you have to work a little more at it.  As I said, it felt good.
Q. You found out you're going to the Olympics a couple weeks ago with Vasek.  How do you feel?  You're going into your sixth Olympic games?  Does it feel surreal knowing it's your sixth one?
DANIEL NESTOR: Yeah, it's exciting, as I said, to play with Vasek and another opportunity to win a medal.  Those things excite me.  You know, being 20 years older than everyone else at the game doesn't excite me and that kind of stuff is a little bit embarrassing at the same time.  (Laughter.)
I'm going to make the most of it and we're going to have fun.  We're going to hang out, and, you know, make the most of it.  We will see what happens.
VASEK POSPISIL: He said that in the locker room and, I mean, it's an incredible accomplishment to play six Olympic games.
DANIEL NESTOR: A little bit embarrassing?
VASEK POSPISIL: No.  5% embarrassing, 95% incredible accomplishment.  Just make sure that's out there.
Q. What do you think of that double-saber move that they did?  Have you seen that before?  Is it something that you have ever tried, either of you?
DANIEL NESTOR: What's that, the charge?
Q. They did it twice and lost both points.  Have you ever seen it, thought about it?
VASEK POSPISIL: Well, it was Roger's shot he started doing at the Open.  I have seen it from Roger, and I guess they usually do it like 40-Love down or something.  Yeah, I don't know.  I mean...
Q. Have you seen it in doubles though before?
VASEK POSPISIL: No, I haven't.  It's definitely not a good tactic in doubles.  Not in singles either.  Maybe if you're Federer.  But in doubles especially, because the guy is right at the net there and he can cut off the angles, and it's just a very difficult half volley if you're serve and volleying.  And someone gets a return at the feet and you have a guy at the net covering it, that's not a place you want to be in.
I think it's more like a show, something fun happens, and, great, you tried it.  But definitely not a good tactic.
DANIEL NESTOR: I'd rather Sock do that than hit a forehand at my head any day of the week.
Q. We have been asking everyone this week about Denis Shapovalov.  As a veteran of the Canadian contingent, your thoughts on Denis's performance this week?
DANIEL NESTOR: He's amazing for his age and just his level in general.  Throw away his age, he's playing at a very high level.
I tell people this story, that we practiced together right before Christmas this year and indoors on fast courts and we were playing singles.  I mean, I was playing really well, and it was like even -- this is six months ago and the kid is 16 and I'm like, What is going on right now?  I think I can still play pretty well sometimes and certain conditions, and this kid was, like, so impressive.
I'm not really that surprised, and I think he's got a really good future and good head on his shoulders.  I mean, I don't see any weaknesses really.  I think it's -- you know, he's going to be up there with Vasek and Milos.  I don't know when, but he will be up there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT