ROGERS CUP
July 27, 2016
Vasek Pospisil
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MONFILS/V. Pospisil
7-6, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. I haven't seen you that frustrated on court for a while.  The way that the end of the tiebreak ended, just explain that a little bit and what happened in the second.
VASEK POSPISIL: Ah, yeah.  Didn't do a good job after that first set to calm down.  I felt frustration, just kind of bottled up six months of frustration, kind of erupted in that second set.  That was tough, yeah.
Yeah, I wasn't -- I was playing pretty well, and then, you know, gave way to the end of that first set -- or, I mean, had opportunities to win that.  Then, yeah, second set was tough.  I mean, it just kind of felt it was getting away from me very quickly.
Q. At that point were you annoyed?  The rain didn't have any factor?  Just trying to get your head back together?  It was a weird moment with the rain?
VASEK POSPISIL: Yeah, it was a little bit of a weird moment.  Obviously looking back I think it would have been better if it wouldn't have rained.  Couldn't have been worse the way it ended up.
Yeah, I will try to take some positives out of it this week and played a pretty good set yesterday and first set today.
Q. Following up on that, the first set was excellent.  I mean, what are the lessons you can learn from -- hanging in with a real good player.  Making the kind of shots you could hope to make for most of the year, I would assume?
VASEK POSPISIL: Yeah, I mean, I played better.  I played my level, my normal, not like tennis I would say the first set, which I haven't really done this year.  It was just a good quality first set.
And then I guess, I don't know, just kind of finally playing well and then not getting that set when I should have.  Just kind of -- I just didn't -- it was just tough for me, and I wish I had done differently obviously going into that second set.
But he didn't help me there.  But he played a good game to break, and then it kind of just started getting away from me.
Q. This loss is obviously very fresh right now, but does it help to look ahead to doubles with Daniel here and then you can sort of look ahead to Rio and have that to look forward to?
VASEK POSPISIL: Yeah.  It's very tough right now, because I -- yeah.  I will try to gather some positive, you know, emotions for the doubles coming up and try to be motivated for that.
Obviously playing with Daniel is going to be great.  At the moment it's hard for me to see that (smiling), to be excited about going back on the court soon.  But I'm sure -- this is still very fresh.  A couple hours, or maybe tomorrow morning I'll feel a little bit better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT