ROGERS CUP
July 26, 2016
Vasek Pospisil
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
V. POSPISIL/J. Chardy   
7-6, 0-0 [Ret.]   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Obviously a little strange finish to the match for you.  Just talk about how important confidence is on the tennis tour and how much confidence you take from tonight's performance.  
VASEK POSPISIL: Yeah, confidence is very important.  Obviously I'm trying to get some right now and feel good on the court.   
I felt like today was kind of a strange match.  Pretty tough, like a little bit windy and fast conditions.  Not easy to control the ball with the racquet.  We were holding serve pretty easily apart from that beginning there where I didn't play a great game, the break back.  It was just about the serve today, I think.   
You know, a win is a win.  Obviously played a good first set at the end of the first set there, and obviously unfortunate for me I had to stop but I will try to take confidence out of that first set.   
 Q.  I guess you will be facing Monfils next.  He's possibly going to be a little winded after a long week in Washington.  What do you expect out of him?  
VASEK POSPISIL: Yeah, he's going to be very confident after getting the title last week.  I'm expecting a very tough match.  He likes to play long points.  It will be physical playing during the day, although it will be late, so that's all right.  But I will try to use the crowd support on my side.   
He obviously has a lot of matches under his belt, which is good, but I have the crowd support this week, so I will try to use that and try to take as much confidence as I can from tonight's match, and, yeah, go out there with nothing to lose.  But at the same time I know I can win that match.   
 Q.  I'm sure you have seen some of the other scores, but you're the fifth Canadian into the second round.  You have done a number of Rogers Cups so you know how important this tournament is for Canada.  What's it like to see this many Canadians into the second round?  
VASEK POSPISIL: Yeah, it's great.  Some of these guys have been around for a while.  But a new face last night is Denis.  I didn't see the match.  I don't think it was televised.  Was it televised?  It was?  It wasn't on my TV.  I was trying to find it.  I couldn't find it.  I wanted to see it.   
What channel was it on?  On Sportsnet ONE?  The Blue Jays was on.  That's what I saw.  What other one?  It wasn't on at the hotel.  I was trying to watch it.   
I was disappointed.  I was streaming.  But, yeah, so I didn't see the match.  I can't really comment on -- but I'm assuming -- I have never seen Denis play, but it's fantastic for him obviously.  Seems like we have a lot of young guys coming up right now, so that's exciting.  It's good to have a lot of new faces, that's for sure.   
I'm 26 already.  I feel like I have been a new face but maybe not so much anymore.  Yeah, it's cool to see and I will try to catch the next one that Denis play and some of the other Canadians play.   
 Q.  Do you think that you only going for a set and a little bit today that that will be an advantage for you tomorrow against Monfils?  
VASEK POSPISIL: Yeah, well, definitely better -- I would have liked to have won it in straight sets, obviously.  But, yeah, definitely better than playing a long three-set match, especially because Monfils is one of the fitter guys on the tour.   
It's good to be fresh going into that match.  I will be fresh.  That's definitely good.  Yeah, definitely an advantage or a plus for me.   
 Q.  Was the best part of your game today how well you served?  
VASEK POSPISIL: Yeah, for sure.  Well, that was pretty much the only thing going on today.  He was serving well.  I was serving well.  There was not really much else going on.   
The courts are playing pretty fast.  He has a great serve, so it wasn't easy to get deep in his service games.  And I was serving well too.  So it felt like apart from that beginning we were just going into the tiebreak and then I played a good breaker, and that was pretty much it.  Just a couple of points in the breaker turned it around.  Then, yeah, that was pretty much it.   
 Q.  What's the hardest part of playing Monfils?  Just the fact that he can get so many balls?  He's such a fantastic athlete?  
VASEK POSPISIL: Yeah.  That's pretty much -- he's a great player.  He doesn't have many weaknesses, and he's a great athlete.  For sure it's tough to win a match against him.  He will get tons of balls back.  He has a lot of qualities.  I will have to play a great match for that win.   
 Q.  How much experience do you have with head-to-head or else just practicing with him in tournaments and stuff?  
VASEK POSPISIL: Head-to-head?  I played him for sure in Shanghai one time.  I lost two close sets.  Oh, Davis Cup, that's right.  That was a while ago, I think, right?  2012?  2012 we played France.  I should know that.   
It's not like I played that many Davis Cup ties.  That's true.  That was a dead rubber, right?  Yeah, a dead rubber.   
 Q.  Like the Harlem Globetrotters?  Did you feel he was putting on a real show that day?  
VASEK POSPISIL: Yeah, for me, for some reason that didn't really stand out like it was important -- it was a dead rubber and I think we already lost the tie.  So we were kind of -- obviously trying to win, but for me it was more the match in Shanghai that we played.  I think that was the only one we played that actually mattered.   
So I think it was just that one match.  But I don't know if we played more times.  I don't think so.   
 Q.  Have you practiced with him much?  
VASEK POSPISIL: Once -- not too much, actually, yeah.  Not too much.  I know what to expect.  Yeah, he's been around for a while.  I guess so have I.  I don't know.   
I have played him a few times.  I know what to expect.  I will be going into that match ready.   
 Q.  You mentioned that your advantage tomorrow is going to be the home crowd.  How big of advantage is that for the fans supporting you?  
VASEK POSPISIL: Yeah, it's always a big advantage.  I love playing in front of the home crowd.  I feel like it gives me great energy.  And, yeah, I can -- I just feed off, especially now I'm not in the greatest, you know, period.  I don't have that much confidence.   
But after today I think I will be feeling better.  Just tournaments like this where the crowd can definitely pull you through and help you out.   
I think Gaël likes to play in front of big crowds, too.  But, yeah, I guess I will have the crowd on my side, for sure.  I'm looking forward to that.   
 Q.  Daniel and you are playing Sock and Kyrgios in doubles now.  Is that going to be a particularly interesting match?  
VASEK POSPISIL: Well, I don't know.  We will have to see.  We will see what kind of match it is.  Definitely could be -- a dangerous team.  Nick is a great player, and, you know, so is Jack, obviously.   
But, yeah, they are a dangerous team, for sure.  Yeah, it has the potential of being a very, very interesting match, for sure.  As do many match -- any match can be like that.   
But, yeah, I'm looking forward to that, as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT