COUPE ROGERS
August 11, 2015
Vasek Pospisil
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. POSPISIL/Y. Lu
  6‑4, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR: Questions in English. 

Q. The break in the second set, a little bit of help from Lu on that one?
VASEK POSPISIL: Yeah, a little bit. I think I broke the game I was down 40‑Love, right? 

Q. Yes. 
VASEK POSPISIL: I played a couple good points to kind of get back to deuce and put some pressure on him. For sure I think, you know, maybe he had a little bit of a lapse of concentration there at 40‑Love, even if I did play some good points. After that I felt like I did a good job to put pressure on him the rest of that game. The volley he missed there, it's kind of also a result of me staying in the game, staying in every point. 
But in general I think, you know, the conditions weren't too easy. I felt like in general it was a good match, but definitely felt like I could have played better and done some things better out there, so I'm just happy that I survived that one and got the win in front of the crowd. I can relax a little bit for the next one. I'm sure I can play better in matches to come. 

Q. Tough one with Isner coming in. Big server. 
VASEK POSPISIL: Yeah, definitely a tough one. You know, we've played four times on tour, then once in Hopman Cup. I played him enough times to pretty much know what to expect. He can say the same thing, I guess. So definitely I'd say that's a pretty open one. 
I think either of us obviously can come out on top in that one. I'll try to use the home‑court advantage as much as I can, you know, serve well. That's the key, of course. 
I played him last week. Didn't serve great that match. I think that's definitely something that I'll look to do better tomorrow when I play him. 

Q. How did the body hold up?
VASEK POSPISIL: Held up all right. I had a couple things here and there. In general, I was just, you know, most satisfied about the way my shoulder was feeling. I had some issues with that actually in Washington and the couple days leading into today. I was pretty nervous about that. I wasn't able to serve all that much, serve well at all the last couple days. 
Today kind of just felt a lot better. I think that was key. That's obviously very positive for tomorrow because I know that's going to be important. 

Q. How intrigued are you by the possibility of potentially facing off against Milos again down the road? That's got to be in the back of your mind. 
VASEK POSPISIL: Yeah, I mean, I don't even know what part of the draw he's in, to be honest. I don't know where I'd meet him (smiling). 
I'm definitely looking to do well this week. I think I try to take it one match at a time, but at the same time I try to visualize myself going deep in the tournament. I know I can do it and I know I can play better than I did today. I'm very happy with getting the win. 
I came up big in the moments when I needed to, especially my serve. Played some great points when I needed to. I think I can do better as a whole, in general. 
So, yeah, I mean, I'm just going to try to play a little bit more relaxed the next couple matches. Then I think from then anything can happen really. 
You know, a deep run is definitely something that I want to, you know, achieve this week. That's kind of the goal. That's been the goal coming into this event. Any tournament I go into, I want to do well, but especially here on home soil. 

Q. Can you talk about the experience of getting back out there on the court, memories of two years ago, what that experience was like for you. 
VASEK POSPISIL: It was really nice. It's always so special to play in front of your home crowd, especially a boisterous one here. They're very passionate about the sport, about the Canadian players. I feel like I feed off the energy. So, you know, I'm just really thrilled that I got through this one. 
After winning the match, I had a couple flashbacks to 2013. It's not easy not to think about 2013 a little bit because it was such a special week for me. 
But that's good. I can just take positive things from that. Like I said, the main thing is I'm just very, very happy that I got through today and will try to play even better in my next matches. 

Q. Since we last saw you here two years ago, how have you gone about grinding away to be a better player, to be more mentally tough, tactically strong out there? Where has your focus been?
VASEK POSPISIL: Yeah, I think especially the last couple months, you know, even a couple weeks before Wimbledon, the focus has been just to be tough mentally, going out there, playing every point the same way, really bringing it to the guys. I feel like I've made a lot of progress there lately. 
I think my game in general, I mean, I'm improving every week, every month. It's not always easy to play your best tennis every week, that's for sure. I think when I play up to my highest abilities, then that's at a higher level than it definitely was six months ago, a year ago. I feel like I'm able to play at a higher level just because I feel like I'm improving. 
So it's just a matter of kind of finding the right, you know, balance and confidence, rhythm, everything. When all that clicks in, I feel like I'm really dangerous. 
Like I said, today I did a lot of things really well, especially coming up big in the important points when I needed to. There was some heated moments there. But I feel like in general I can definitely do a lot of things better. 

Q. On a day like today where the weather is uncertain, how are you towards the waiting game? Is it something that's easy for you or something that makes you a bit more nervous?
VASEK POSPISIL: I don't know. I mean, I didn't think I was going to play today with the way the weather was looking. I actually hit off‑site somewhere, on Nuns' Island. Very nice club there, indoors. Just not really expecting to play. 
Everyone was telling me it was supposed to rain all day. It turned out to clear up. It was unexpected when play started. Then I kind of just, you know, focused in and went through all my routines as if there was no rain or anything like that. 
It was more about the first half of the day I really wasn't sure if I would even play. Then once it cleared up, nothing really changed in terms of my preparation or nerves. It was just kind of a standard day at the office, I guess. 

Q. Regarding Isner next match, considering he's played quite a lot of tennis in the last couple of weeks, is it in the back of your mind, your strategy regarding your preparation?
VASEK POSPISIL: Not in terms of strategy. Definitely I'm sure he is starting to feel a little bit tired. I mean, he has to be. He's gotten to the finals of the last two events, played a lot of tennis, played some three‑setters. Definitely he can't be completely fresh. 
But, you know, I'm sure he's also confident. He's won a lot of matches. Similar situation when I played him here two years ago. I think he was coming off of two finals in a row. 
I think, yeah, my preparation doesn't really change. Especially with his game style, you just have to wait for your opportunities and try to take them with the way he serves. I'm just going to go about it the same way as if he is completely fresh, especially with his game style. I mean, it doesn't really change much. Maybe just gives him a little bit more confidence knowing that he might be feeling a little heavy‑legged. 
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French. 

Q. You're satisfied with the victory?
VASEK POSPISIL: Yes. I'm very satisfied. It was the first match I believe that I played well at certain moments, and sometimes not as good. But it was normal for a first match. There was a little more pressure. So in the important moments I was able to play well and I'm very happy that I won this first match. 

Q. How does it feel to be back in Montréal after so much success you had here?
VASEK POSPISIL: There were a lot of emotions here. Even after the match, I was thinking about this. I have many memories here coming back to me from 2013. It was fantastic to play on this court again today. 
I'm extremely pleased that I was able to win this match in the first round. It was incredible. The crowd was fantastic, as usual. 

Q. What is it about Montréal that you have so much success here? 
VASEK POSPISIL: Yes, it's true. I believe it's the crowd, everybody there. It gives me a lot of energy and I can draw upon that energy when I need it in the game. I like to play on big courts when the crowd is behind me. It's true for Vancouver, but here it's even more special, for sure with all the memories I have and the energy I feel from the crowd. 

Q. On your serve it seemed difficult to win the first point. What happened? 
VASEK POSPISIL: The first point on my serve games? Well, it depended. He was returning well. On the first point, there's less pressure. He's a tough player. He returns very well. He doesn't serve too big, but I didn't return well. There are many things I could have done better today. 
But the best thing I did is that I was able to play well when I needed it, but otherwise there were many ups and downs in the match. But I was happy that I pulled through. That was the most important thing. 

Q. Are you thinking already about John Isner? 
VASEK POSPISIL: I'm trying to relax now and not thinking about it too much. But I played John here already. I played him also four or five times, I think. I know it's going to be a difficult match. 
At the same time I believe it is open. It's going to be tough, but I believe I have opportunities in the match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT