WIMBLEDON
July 6, 2015
Vasek Pospisil
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. POSPISIL/V. Troicki
  4‑6, 6‑7, 6‑4, 6‑3, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You must be absolutely exhausted.   
VASEK POSPISIL:   Yeah.   I mean, it was a long day, for sure.   Pretty tired right now, but I have a day off tomorrow, so that's good.  
   
 Q.   Andy says there is a possibility the fatigue may play a part on Wednesday.   Will you be fresh?   Will you be ready?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   I think so, yeah.   I mean, obviously I played a lot of tennis, but, you know, one day recovery is a lot.   So, you know, I can sleep well tonight.   Just have a full day of rest tomorrow.   Do a lot of, you know, recovery and stuff.   Then come out strong on Wednesday and take it to him.  
   
 Q.   Will you just be letting the body relax?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   I will hit tomorrow.   Lightly.   
   
 Q.   Can you kind of sum up the singles match?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   Yeah.   I mean‑‑   
   
 Q.   You have forgotten about it?   
VASEK POSPISIL:   That was five sets ago (smiling).   
I mean, it was tough.   I had maybe, you know, didn't have the start I wanted to have, and then I had chances ‑‑well, you know, I got unlucky a little bit in the breaker there.   You know, I made a couple of good adjustments on my return games.   
And even being down two sets, it didn't faze me.   I feel I'm pretty tough that way.   Even if I'm down, I'm always finding ways to come back and trying to.   So I did a good job.   I was serving well and I made the right adjustments tactically on the return.  
Played well the rest of the way.  
   
 Q.   Did it help you having been through a five‑setter on the Wimbledon show court two days ago?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   Yeah.   I mean, for sure, you know, it was extra confidence, for sure, that I had done it just two days before.   
But, you know, I wasn't really thinking about it too much.   Maybe subconsciously that made a difference.   But, you know, I'm just, you know, working on other things and trying to, you know, stay in it and be there mentally, which I have done a great job of that this week.  
   
 Q.   Can you walk me through your morning.   When did you get up?   What did you do before you got here?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   Well, I woke up...   
   
 Q.   That was a long time ago.   
VASEK POSPISIL:   I'm actually trying to think.   I woke up at 8:00, and then, you know, did some things for 30 minutes, just like some things that I have been working on.   
And then I had breakfast, came here around, I don't know, 9:15.   Warmed up 40 minutes for the warmup.   And then I got my body ready and had a light hit at 10:00, and then just got my gear ready.   Then went on at 11:30.  
   
 Q.   May I ask what the half hour "things" are?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   No, it's a secret (smiling).   
No, we just, like I said, I said previously the last couple of weeks, I have been working, you know, to be more clutch mentally and, you know, in big moments.   Actually, you know, I feel like I'm stepping up my game and I'm, you know, more ambitious than ever right now.  
I feel like that the result this week has showed that so far.  
   
 Q.   What are you reading in your book?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   Secret.  
   
 Q.   Secret, as well?   Are you writing it in the morning, is that the secret part?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   I'm looking at the same‑‑no, actually, yeah, I have been looking at the same page for the matches, but the book is getting filled up a little bit.   
   
 Q.   Is it a motivational page?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   No, honestly just reminders and pointers, things I should be looking at during the match, so that will change a little bit match to match.  
But pretty, you know, nothing crazy.  
   
 Q.   Talk about Andy Murray.   
VASEK POSPISIL:   Yeah, it's going to be obviously a tough one.   You know, he's had a great results here over the years.   Obviously, you know, he's the big, one of the big four, as they say.  
But I think I'm serving well, I'm playing well, and I will have a good day of rest tomorrow.   I know I will have my hands full and I have to go out there and play to the best of my abilities.   And that's what I plan on doing.  
   
 Q.   You played against a British crowd already with James Ward.   How beneficial is that that you have already been in that atmosphere?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   Yeah.   I mean, it doesn't really faze me too much playing in front of crowds that are against me.   I like playing in front of big crowds, in general.   Doesn't matter if they are against me or cheering for me.   
Obviously I'd prefer they are on my side, but, you know, I tend to play well in those kind of situations. So I'm not worried about that, really.  
   
 Q.   You said you have been working on trying to be more clutch.   You mentioned it again now.   What is it you're doing to do that?   Is it a matter of focusing or not thinking about the moment or thinking about the moment?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   Well, I'm just working on my mental side of the game right now.   And I think, yeah, so that's pretty much it.   That's pretty much all.  
   
 Q.   Do you think you would have won that match a year or two ago just in terms of hanging in there when things got bad and being clear headed enough to make the adjustments you had to make?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   No.   I mean, obviously I'm more experienced now, too.   I turned 25 a couple weeks ago, I think that made the big difference there (smiling).   
No, but, yeah, like I said, I'm more experienced.   I'm more and more comfortable now playing best‑of‑five matches.   I kind of know how to manage it better, I think.   That was something that I was struggling with in previous years. I think I have really just kind of figured that out, how to kind of go about long matches like this.   
But like I said, you know, it's just being behind.   I know it's a long match even if you're down two sets, and the last set is always the toughest one to win.   I knew that, and I knew that it would be tough for him to win that last one as long as I stayed in it and showed my presence and showed that I was there. So that's what I tried to do.   
And then along with some of the adjustments I made tactically after that, you know, that made the difference.  
   
 Q.   Can you expand just a little bit on what you mean by the tactical, what adjustments did you make?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   There are a couple, but to simplify, just that, you know, I was rushing a little bit too much.   He likes defense.   He likes coming up with, you know, good shots on the run and whatever.   
I think I was just making a little bit too many mistakes, trying to be too aggressive and I started mixing the pace better and I changed my positioning on the return.   I think that got to him a bit.  
   
 Q.   What did you do in the roughly two hours' break between singles and doubles?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   I biked, stretched, and had my recovery shakes.   Then just ice bath, just recovered a little bit.   Got a light flush.   Just all recovery stuff.  
   
 Q.   In the doubles match, you and Jack got really, really angry.   
VASEK POSPISIL:   Yeah, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Tell us all about that.   
VASEK POSPISIL:   Yeah, it fired us up.   But, yeah, the ball hit the racquet of Peers, and he didn't‑‑not that he didn't say anything, but he said he wasn't sure if he hit it.  
   
 Q.   Said he didn't feel it?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   He said he didn't feel it, but it was clearly not the case, you know.   So that got us really fired up.   
   
 Q.   Did that help?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   Well, it helped.   Because it's the doubles, we almost came back and won maybe because of that.  
You know, I think the energy was pretty low and it's also tough to come back after a singles match, and that kind of changed it for us.   
And then we started playing better, and, you know, playing more like what we are used to playing, and that gave us, you know, a chance there at the end a little to come back and win it almost.  
   
 Q.   Are you better when you're angry?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   No, better when I'm, you know, I guess fully driven and intense.   
   
 Q.   Do you almost regret that in a way?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   No.   No, because we wanted to win, but it just wasn't there.   The synergy wasn't there, and, you know, we were just flat‑footed, and then that kind of just woke us up.  
   
 Q.   No, but in terms of you spending an extra hour and a half, extra hour and a half today on top of a long day?   
VASEK POSPISIL:   Obviously it would be better if we lost in three than 8‑6 in the fifth, but you don't know that, right.   You're just trying to win the match.  
So there are no regrets.   
   
 Q.   Centre Court last year in the doubles, do you think that will prepare you for playing Andy?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   Yeah, for sure.   I had one Centre Court experience, and it was a great one.   I'm looking forward to going out there again, and, you know, give it my best for sure.   
Realize that it's going to be a tough, you know, feat to accomplish, to beat Andy here Wimbledon, his home court.   I will try and take the positive memories of last year and my good form, you know, this past week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT