ROGERS CUP MEN
August 5, 2014
Vasek Pospisil
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. GASQUET/V. Pospisil
  7‑5, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How much did that right leg injury hamper you during that match?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   I mean, yeah, it's never good to have something bothering you, but, I mean, in general I think I was just a little bit tired mentally maybe.   Just been on the road a lot of weeks.  
Yeah, you need to be 100% at this level when you're playing against Richard.   Yeah, I wasn't feeling 100% today.  
   
 Q.   Obviously major enough to come out of the doubles.   Are you concerned about the severity of the injury in the long term?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   Yeah, I have been doing, yeah, kind of ‑‑ not long term, no.   I mean, sorry, to answer your question.   
No, I'm not worried about it long term, but yeah, I'm just going to go get an MRI just because I have been struggling with it on and off for a couple of weeks, and it just kind of came back, seized up on me 5‑All in the first.   I was struggling to lunge on the forehand side after that and to get low on some balls.   So that's obviously not ideal.  
   
 Q.   You had the same sort of on‑court stretching stuff in Atlanta.   All last week, was it sort of there, not there?   Do you know how to sort of get rid of it?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   No, I mean...   
   
 Q.   It's been there the whole time?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   Well, yeah, it happened in Atlanta.   I was just kind of playing through it, you know, playing through some pain.   Then it was a little bit on and off.   Felt it in the first match in Washington and didn't feel it the rest of the tournament, but I still felt it off the court, surprisingly.   
On the court I was fine, but off the court I would feel it, and doing exercises, just kind of very strange feeling in my leg.   But it was better in Washington until 5‑All in the first today.  
   
 Q.   You were having some great results, obviously Washington, after struggling beginning of the year with the back.   How frustrating is it to be over the back and now struggling with this?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   No, it's not ‑‑I mean, it's disappointing because‑‑ you know, the fact that the match today for sure a little bit, but I can't even compare it to the back or anything.   
It's just a minor, you know, thing.   I just want to be ready for Cincinnati now.   And because I don't know exactly, you know, what the protocol is, how many days I should take off, whatever, it was too risky for me to play doubles, especially because I'm feeling pain, but, you know, it's not a long‑term thing.  
   
 Q.   Does this make you reconsider doubling up on Cincinnati and the US Open going forward, singles and doubles?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   No.   No, I mean, if I don't have any physical issues, then I will be fine to play singles and doubles there.   If I have some other problem or, you know, a little tweak or something bothering me, then I will think about it and I will have to reassess, but if I'm healthy, then I will play both.  
   
 Q.   Is it the hamstring or the groin?   
VASEK POSPISIL:   Yeah, adductor, apparently, hamstrings, kind of a mix.   It's kind of ‑‑yeah, whatever, I guess.   
   
 Q.   So when you play that well against a guy like Gasquet who is borderline top 10 and you're not quite at your best, it must be, in a sense, reassuring to know that you can play at a pretty high level even though you have something that's holding you back a bit?  
 VASEK POSPISIL:   Did you say I've been playing that well?   
 Q.   Yeah.   I mean, to play that well when you have got something wrong with you against a guy that's as good as that...  
 VASEK POSPISIL:   Oh, yeah, for sure...   
 Q.   You're 7‑5, 7‑5.   
VASEK POSPISIL:   Yeah, I think it was not a great performance.   I think I can play a lot better, but, I mean, I played okay.   
I played, you know, like I said, kind of mentally didn't feel like I was, you know, super energized or had a lot of energy to concentrate and to kind of go with it.  
But, yeah, I played okay, I guess, given the circumstances.  
   
 Q.   He said it was very tough for him.   He was talking about how big your forehand and your serve was, even when you're not at your best.   You're fantastic, Vasek.   
VASEK POSPISIL:   (Laughter.)   No, no, I'm just saying.   I mean, I guess especially the second set I started playing a little bit better coming from behind, but yeah, I was okay.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   In a way do you kind of feel a victory of your own success, playing so many matches in Washington and then the quick turnaround to come here?   
VASEK POSPISIL:   Yeah, not so much the one in Washington.   I think it's just a buildup of a lot of weeks in a row.  
   
 Q.   Going deep in tournaments?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   Yeah.   Well, just playing every week, traveling every week.   I played, out of the whole European swing, clay, grass, without coming home, and then Wimbledon I went two weeks, and then I was home for two days, went to Bogota, went to Atlanta, singles, doubles.   
So I pretty much had two days at home.   And those two days my bags didn't arrive, so I was like stressed out on the phone talking to Air Canada for like two hours nonstop.   I mean, it wasn't like ‑‑I didn't really have much of a break to like go with family and take four days off or do something.   
I think that's kind of the, you know, the buildup that led to this a little bit of the fatigue.   
   
 Q.   Must be almost a sense of relief to have a couple of days now?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   Yeah, maybe.   I don't know.   I would have liked to have won, but there's good things to everything, I guess.   Probably go to Wonderland now or something (smiling).  
   
 Q.   Did you finagle any compensation for the bags that didn't arrive?   Did you get like a free ticket to somewhere?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   No, that was crazy.   I actually spent ‑‑I think I calculated, I think I spent like six or seven hours on the phone in two days talking about ‑‑oh, my gosh.   I don't even want to get into that.   That was crazy.  
   
 Q.   No compensation?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   No, I didn't ask for any.   I don't think they offer it unless you kind of push for it.   I didn't have the energy to do that.  
   
 Q.   This story might get out now.   
VASEK POSPISIL:   No, sorry.   
   
 Q.   No, it might come across with something.   
VASEK POSPISIL:   Yeah, maybe.   
   
 Q.   When do you feel the fatigue really hitting you?   Leaving Washington?   When you got here?   When do you think it really sort of slammed you?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   Probably before the final over there a little bit.   You know, after playing ‑‑I played with Giraldo two sets until midnight and we didn't finish.   Had to come back at 1:00.   Played third set.   
Then played three sets with Richard that night.   Then slept five hours, not even.   I don't know, like, why I couldn't sleep.   I didn't sleep at all.   
Then the next day I was, you know, not feeling great and haven't fully, I guess‑‑ you know, then now is kind of just a bit of mental fatigue maybe.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT