ROGERS CUP MEN
August 4, 2014
Vasek Pospisil
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Vasek is up to No. 27 in the Emirates ATP rankings this week, just two spots off his career high of 25, which was back in January.   
Let's open it up for questions.   
   
 Q.   It seems like not that long ago that you and Milos were up against Rafa and Djokovic in the doubles here four years ago.   Is it still a bit surreal to you all what you have achieved over the last four years?   Has it sunk in?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   Yeah, I'm not sure.   I mean, it doesn't seem too long ago and a lot has happened since then.   Yeah, it's been a pretty amazing last couple of years especially, and a lot of things have happened.   I'm not sure if it's fully sunk in yet, but yeah, I'm trying to enjoy it.  
   
 Q.   How satisfying has your recent success been, given the struggles that you were experiencing earlier this year?   What was it like to go through that period where you had those eight losses in a row?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   Yeah, well, it feels great.   Obviously the last couple of months have been really good and I have been playing well.   You know, the beginning of the year I was dealing with a back issue, so that's kind of where that streak of losses was coming from a little bit.  
But I got healthy for the first time this year the week before Wimbledon, and then I built a pretty good momentum.   I felt every week I have been improving, and I feel like I've got a good groove now.  
   
 Q.   In playing Milos not just once but seeing his kind of career path and maybe being a few steps behind him but on that same kind of path, how much do you compare yourself to him?   And what do you see as a way to try to get up the same kind of path up the rankings that he's been able to do?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   Well, nobody goes on the same path.   It's very different.   I mean, for me, just seeing him, growing up with him and beating him when we were younger just motivated me a little bit and feeling I could do it, too.   
But as I said, nobody goes on the same path especially with somebody as unique of a game that he has, you know, the best serve in the game right now.  
So that will be, you know, generally a pretty different path.   And I have a lot of areas of my game that I need to work on and fully develop to, you know, reach the top 10.  
   
 Q.   What are those areas you think you want to focus on in the next few weeks, months?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   Yeah, well, it's an ongoing process over the course of the last 18 months and probably will be the same for, you know, years to come, but just becoming a complete player all around and being aggressive and, you know, that's the key.   
I think that's where I made my biggest jump was when I started, you know, being less passive on the court and especially in big moments, and you have to kind of play aggressive and go for it, as all these guys do.  
   
 Q.   How does it feel to be back home and play Rogers Cup here?   What does this tournament mean for you?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   Yeah, it's great (smiling).   No, it's great.   I love coming back here, and I love playing in Canada.   It's really special, and I tend to play my best tennis in front of my home crowd and feed off the energy.  
Just was very excited to come here and, you know, was thinking about it the last couple of weeks and maybe that's why I played well last week.   But, yeah, excited to play tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Do you do anything differently when preparing for a match with such a short turnaround?   Does it help that you're playing someone familiar who you just played and beat in Gasquet?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   Yeah, it was a little bit difficult right now, quick turnaround obviously.   I'm a little bit tired but I won't be tomorrow, just today.   I didn't get much sleep last night or the night before.  
So right now I'm not feeling great, but I know tomorrow I'll be fit.   I think it goes to my advantage obviously having won the last one, and having a good run there and feeling confident on the court is always good.  
We'll see.   It's going to be a very tough ask to do it again, but I'll do my best.  
   
 Q.   Could you speak to the importance of playing in the very first all‑Canadian final on the ATP Tour?   What sort of pride or feelings do you have being a part of that momentous occasion?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   Yeah, it was really cool.   I would have liked to have been on the winning end of that, obviously, but yeah, it's another special moment for me because it was my first final.   I was looking at it that way as one of my, you know, high career accomplishments, I guess you could say, my first final.  
Then the fact that I was playing another Canadian, Milos, made it more special for sure, I think especially for tennis fans in Canada.  
But, yeah, I think it's more icing on the cake, I guess, for all the good results that we have been having these past few years in Canada.  
   
 Q.   Are you torn when Jack Sock plays Milos Raonic?   Who do you cheer for?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   (Laughter.)   Yeah, they seem to be playing each other nonstop.   I think they have played like four or five times.   
Yeah, I'm good friends with both of them, so it's fun.   It's just fun to watch, obviously, and I have been getting along great with Jack.   That goes without saying.   We have been really close buddies the last couple of weeks.   
But, yeah, I mean, I hope he wins his first round and it would be fun to watch that match if they play on Wednesday, I think, or Thursday?   Wednesday.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT