WIMBLEDON
July 5, 2014
Vasek Pospisil
Jack Sock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 POSPISIL‑SOCK/Bryan‑Bryan
  7/6, 6/7, 6/4, 3/6, 7/5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Our men's doubles champions.   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Jack, rough few weeks for the USA.   What is it like to help carry the torch in that respect besides the great accomplishment here?  
JACK SOCK:   Yeah, I mean, obviously congrats to Vasek, as well, but it was a pretty obviously surreal week and a half for us in the doubles.   It was nice.   Either way some Americans were going to win ‑ sorry.   But honestly I don't have words for it.   
Obviously so thankful.   Once again, a surreal moment for me.   To be my second Grand Slam title and to do it here at Wimbledon is unbelievable.   
   
 Q.   Mixed still means more than this one, right?   
JACK SOCK:   Maybe not.   They're equal.   They're equal.   
   
 Q.   What was the best part of today?   
VASEK POSPISIL:   The best part of today was not having to hit anything on match point, just watch that ball go in the court.   Seeing Jack run around that forehand and crush it down the line.   
That was probably the best part of the match.   
JACK SOCK:   I would have to agree.   
No, we had a lot of fun.   People could see that.   I think that's part of why we did well.   We really enjoyed being out there, enjoyed the moment.   
 I think both of our first times on Centre Court there.   I mean, as kids we grew up watching this tournament.   This is what we kind of dreamed of doing.   Yeah, to be able to go out there and play the best doubles team of all time and to get a win was pretty incredible.   
 Q.   Jack, how did the conversations go between the two of you leading into this?   Vasek was saying yesterday he wasn't quite sure he was going to play.   How did that go from your standpoint?   Were you confident the two of you would be partners?  
JACK SOCK:   Yeah, my lifetime doubles partner here and I were‑‑ yeah (smiling).   
I mean, for me it was different because obviously I love playing doubles.   At the slams you have to have a certain ranking to get in.   Where my singles ranking was is I needed to play with somebody in the top 50 I think or whatever.   
Vasek and I are friends, and so I messaged him and asked him if he wanted to play.   Thankfully he said yeah.   
Leading up, days before, we weren't too sure.   His singles didn't go too well unfortunately early, and so I didn't know if he would stay and play.   Obviously with his back and everything, I didn't know.   
 Yeah, we're both pretty happy we stayed and played.   
 Q.   In some ways is it easier when it's your first tournament together?   The Bryans said you two have never lost together so you don't know what that feels like.   They said it was a honeymoon.   
VASEK POSPISIL:   We do get along very well (smiling).   
Yeah, to be honest, our games just click perfectly together.   I think throughout the tournament we kind of, you know, when one guy was down a little bit the other guy raised the level at the perfect time.   
We were complementing each other extremely well throughout the tournament.   That's why we got to the final.   
Again, same story.   We're a dangerous team.   I mean, I don't know what to say right now.   We're Wimbledon champions (laughter).   
   
 Q.   What is your earliest Wimbledon memory?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   Probably watching Roger and Sampras playing.   Yeah, probably watching that match.   That's probably the memory that comes up.   
Obviously, you know, when you're a kid, this is a tournament you want to play at and win in your wildest dreams.   Now it's actually reality.   We're dreaming right now.   When we wake up tomorrow, it will sink in.   
   
 Q.   Talk about playing Bob and Mike, the standard in doubles, legends in their own time.   
JACK SOCK:   Yeah, we were talking about it after.   Our road here was pretty crazy, playing Bopanna‑Qureshi, Peya‑Soares, Paes‑Stepanek, and then the Bryans.   I think before if we had known that was our path, I don't know how certain we'd be that we'd be sitting here right now.   
We gelled really well together, clicked well at the right times, and were able to come out on top at the end of the two weeks.   
Yeah, I mean, for me, I've played Bob and Mike a few times now.   We were never able to beat them.   To be able to do it on Centre Court at Wimbledon, it was a surreal moment out there.   I mean, they're friends of mine, but it was fun.  
   
 Q.   What was your game plan?   
JACK SOCK:   The game plan?   
VASEK POSPISIL:   Close your eyes; hope you play the best tennis of your life.   
   
 Q.   Immediately after your first round in singles, did you think you would play doubles?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   Oh, yeah, that's for sure.   That's not where the doubt was.   The doubt was at the time we were talking about playing.   I was still having back troubles, so I wasn't sure if I'd be healthy to play.   
I told Jack, I said, We can enter, but right now my back is not good and I don't know how it's going to feel Wimbledon.   He took the chance, took the risk, and said okay.   
At that point, once my back was pain‑free for the last two weeks, I was pretty sure I was going to play.   There was no doubt after that.   It was more when we were talking about playing.   
   
 Q.   Do you realize you're only 97 titles away from them?   
VASEK POSPISIL:   Lot of work to do.   We got time, though.   
   
 Q.   A question regarding the roof.   They were saying once it was closed it sort of gave you an edge.   Were you salivating at all knowing it could only help?   
JACK SOCK:   Yeah, I mean, I think it goes both ways.   Obviously they've played a lot of matches, a lot of doubles matches, either under a roof or whatever.   I think all of us can adapt well.   
It's our first time, like I said, out there.   Playing under the roof, it's definitely more humid out there, a little more warm.   
I don't know, I've never played on there without the roof so I don't know how much different it is.   Hopefully next time I play there there is a roof again.   
   
 Q.   They were saying the power of your stroke was more obvious; gave it a little extra juice.   
JACK SOCK:   Yeah, just swinging with my eyes closed and hoping it goes in.   That was my plan.  
   
 Q.   One downside is that you might have a shorter off‑season.   You'll probably qualify for London for the World Tour Finals.   
VASEK POSPISIL:   That's really disappointing (laughter).   I wish you hadn't reminded me of that.   
   
 Q.   Have you planned on entering a few more events before that?   
VASEK POSPISIL:   I don't think so.   
JACK SOCK:   No, we're going to play again.   
VASEK POSPISIL:   I'm not going to play anymore (laughter).   
   
 Q.   Do you think this can translate to singles?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   For sure.   
JACK SOCK:   100%.   Any match you win, especially in Grand Slams, playing in the second week can only help your confidence in all aspects of tennis.   
   
 Q.   After all the frustrations of the last six months, does this sort of feel good?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   No, it doesn't feel good.   It feels terrible (laughter).   
No, yeah, it goes without saying.   I think this is the highlight of my career, for sure.   I mean, that goes without saying, as well.   It just feels, yeah, so much better.   
These last two weeks have been amazing, to be honest, because the whole year was a struggle.   Just not feeling good on the court.   Then last week was my first pain‑free week of the year.   That was really nice.   
Then now to cap it off with a title at Wimbledon is not bad.   
   
 Q.   Jack, forget about Melanie.   She's a nice girl and everything, but is this the highlight of your career so far?   
JACK SOCK:   Yeah, I mean, I think both.   I think any Grand Slam title is obviously incredible.   For that one with Melanie at such a young age, we did it three years ago, obviously was another surreal moment.   
Like we both said, Wimbledon, the tournament that any tennis player, any young tennis player, dreams of playing and dreams of winning one day, yeah, it might get it by just a notch.   That's about it.   
   
 Q.   How long have you been friends?   When is the first time you met?   
VASEK POSPISIL:   I don't know if we've known each other too long.   
JACK SOCK:   Two weeks ago (laughter).   
VASEK POSPISIL:   We knew each other from the rankings, the names and stuff.   
JACK SOCK:   I actually never talked him before the tournament (laughter).   
No, a few years.   
VASEK POSPISIL:   Only two or three years, to be honest.   We didn't know each other too, too well before this tournament.   I mean a little bit.   
JACK SOCK:   Now we're pretty good friends.   
VASEK POSPISIL:   Now we're pretty good friends.   
   
 Q.   How will you celebrate?   
JACK SOCK:   I'm going to bed in like 20 minutes.   That's my plan.   
   
 Q.   So this country here enticed Rusedski to come over and become a Brit.   What do we have to do to get you to come south of the border?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   Is that a question for me (smiling)?   I wasn't sure.   
Yeah, it's going to be tough.   I feel, you know, that's going to be tough.   I'm a Canadian right now.   I'm a Canadian, eh?   
No, that's not possible.   Sorry, guys.   
   
 Q.   Vasek, Daniel was saying a year or two ago that he would have loved to play with you, but because of your success with singles he wanted to have a full‑time partner.   With this kind of success, how much more doubles do you foresee yourself playing moving forward?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   Should I tell you privately (smiling)?   
No, actually this year I set a goal to really focus on doubles as well because I thought it would help my singles game.   Kind of finishing the points at the net, I think that's something that I can do more in singles.   
Actually at the beginning of the year I put a little bit more focus on doubles even though I hadn't played very many tournaments because of my back and all that.   
For sure the big events, I mean, it is tough to play both singles and doubles.   But at the slams and Masters and stuff, now I think we'll give it a go.   
   
 Q.   Would you need a wild card to get into the Rogers Cup with your ranking?   
VASEK POSPISIL:   Good question.   What's our ranking now?   
JACK SOCK:   We have a few points now.   
   
 Q.   Will you play together in Toronto?   
VASEK POSPISIL:   That depends.   I mean, we're still going to be doing what's best for our singles.   We're not doubles specialists now.   I think, depending on whether Jack plays Toronto, I mean, we'll play where it fits our schedule.   Our schedule is still going to be focused on singles.   
Wherever we can play, wherever it makes sense for us to play, we'll play.   
JACK SOCK:   That's a great answer.   
VASEK POSPISIL:   Thank you (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Vasek, Daniel Nestor, is he a ghost?   Did he give you any advice?  
VASEK POSPISIL:   He's been giving me advice every match, yeah.   No, we're great friends.   He was really happy.   Came and congratulated me.   
JACK SOCK:   Me, too.   
VASEK POSPISIL:   He congratulated him, too.   
But, yeah, that pretty much sums it up.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT