AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2014
Vasek Pospisil
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







BOLT‑WHITTINGTON/Knowle‑Pospisil
  2‑1 (ret.)

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How afraid were you to play Wawrinka?
VASEK POSPISIL:   Yeah, no, I mean, it seems I don't want to play him.   Retired against him twice now.   Really unfortunate injury for me.   It's disappointing.   I'm really disappointed to be pulling out.   It's my first third round in a Grand Slam. 
I was excited to do my best and take the opportunity, but unfortunately not able to do so at this time. 

Q.   What's the prognosis for the back?   For example, for Davis Cup, going forward, what the effects may be?
VASEK POSPISIL:   It's nothing too serious right now, but there's, you know, significant risk if I were to play on it that I could do some serious damage.   I don't want to jeopardize the rest of my season in any way. 
I was advised to pull out and not to step on the court, that I'd just be putting my season in danger.   So it was just the smart move really to pull out, and, yeah, be safe with my body and try and get ready hopefully in time for Davis Cup. 
But I guess we'll see how I progress in the healing process.

Q.   That's a significantly different prognosis than you were hearing last night on the court from the physio.   Am I right?
VASEK POSPISIL:   Yeah.   I guess the MRI is quite specific and shows a lot of detail.   Had a spine surgeon, specialist, look at it back home. 
So, yeah, it was not good news to hear.   But at the same time, fortunate that I didn't do any severe damage or anything that I would regret. 

Q.   What would you say the percentage is for Davis Cup?   It's coming up quickly. 
VASEK POSPISIL:   It's coming up quickly, yeah.   It's two weeks away.   It's really hard for me right now to put any numbers on it.   I think the chances are good.   I mean, to be honest, I'll have to see.   I'm going to fly to Vancouver first thing tomorrow and start rehab. 
Like I said, there's nothing that's really wrong with it right now.   It's just more preventive, something that could be, and I'm supposed to keep off it for a little while. 
But there's definitely, you know, a good potential that I'll be ready for Davis Cup. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT