ROGERS CUP MEN
August 7, 2012
Vasek Pospisil
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. MONACO/V. Pospisil
  7‑5, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Pretty close in the first set and pretty close in the second set. 
VASEK POSPISIL:   Yeah.   No, I mean, tough match.   He's top 10 in the world, so I knew it wasn't going to be easy.   I knew I was going to have to be at the top physically and mentally and be very sharp.
Unfortunately, I didn't feel very good on the court today both mentally and physically.   Last night was very draining, and I didn't really have very much time to recover.   I didn't feel good physically on the court. 
I tried my best, but to beat a player that's top 10 in the world ‑ whether he's a clay court specialist or grass court ‑ you're going to have to be at the top of your game.
I didn't feel that way today.

Q.   You had those break chances for 3‑1 in the second.   I think you had double break point.   The second one you bent over like you were feeling it a bit.   Was that a tough part of the match for you?
VASEK POSPISIL:   Yeah, I mean, to be honest, I was extremely sore when I woke up today.   I tried to recover last night as much as I could.   I must have done something worse, because usually I'm able to get into the match even if I'm sore after a couple games.   My body loosens up and I'm fine.
Today wasn't the case.   I don't know if I pulled some muscles or something, but my left side was feeling pretty bad.   But I kept trying to go through it, but it wasn't feeling now better.   If anything, it was actually feeling a little bit worse as the match was going on. 

Q.   What was the hardest thing that he did to you?   What was the hardest part of playing him in terms of his game? 
VASEK POSPISIL:   Well, I mean, he returned well in the beginning.   He maybe caught me a little bit off guard how quick he was playing and threw me off a little bit.   After that I didn't feel like he could really hurt me that much. 
So, I mean, I felt like if I could have moved the way I moved last night or even been able to hit my forehands like I did last night, I feel like it could have been a completely different match.

Q.   Just a side track question a little bit.   You're one of the younger players on tour.   Toronto now has the Hawk‑Eye technology and is expanding it.   As one of the younger players, you probably have only known an era where it has existed.   How does to play on you?   On the matches where you have it accessible to you, how does it make you feel?   Does it help make you feel calm during the match knowing it's not in the hands of, say, somebody's eyes? 
VASEK POSPISIL:   Yeah, for sure I love it, because it's one of those things that takes away the factor of me getting mad or bad line calls or something.   I like to have that peace of mind, so if I disagree with a call I can challenge it.   Then I can look past it, and the next point I just move on. 
So obviously it's great.   I like it.   Yeah, for sure I think it helps all the players, to be honest.

Q.   Way enjoy an era of tennis where it existed on all courts at all times?
VASEK POSPISIL:   Oh, yeah, for sure.   I mean, like I said, it's a great technology to have.   You know, that's why I love playing bigger courts, too, you know.   I mean, there has been several calls that were turned over on big points.   You see it time and time again.
So it's just a nice way to have justice served, I guess. 

Q.   Did you have a day of off before playing Federer last year?   Just wondering how you felt in your second‑round match this year compared to last year. 
VASEK POSPISIL:   No, I didn't have a day off.   It was a little bit similar because I played‑‑ but the difference last year was I played on Monday, or I don't know if it was Tuesday, but I played during the day and then I had a lot more time to recover. 
I felt physically much better even when I played Federer.   Actually, Federer himself said it was a tough turnaround for me because I played later in the day and first on center at 11:00. 
But I felt physically much better than I did today for sure.   I think just finishing late and that adrenaline and emotional toll.   You know, especially a match like last night and going to bed at 2:00 and then sleeping for six and a half hours, it's not ideal.
I'm not trying to look for excuses, but unfortunately I think‑‑ I don't think I played my best tennis maybe because I didn't feel great physically. 

Q.   You talk about not being at 100% today, yet when you leak at the final scoreline, one break each set.   That's a pretty close match.   Does it make you feel better to know even not necessarily at 100% you can do that against a guy like that?
VASEK POSPISIL:   Yeah, for sure.   It's been a very positive tournament for me.   I had a great win last night against a player who is very solid and hard to beat on all surfaces.
Yeah, today I played against a top 10 player.   Even though his preferred surface is clay, he's still top 10 and a very good player.   It's showed me a lot about my game and where I'm at.   It's very positive for me, especially knowing that I can play better and do things better. 
So, yeah, I'm excited. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT