ROGERS CUP MEN
August 10, 2011
Vasek Pospisil
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. FEDERER/V. Pospisil
  7-5, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions in English. 

 Q. What was your plan going in? How did you execute that? 
 VASEK POSPISIL: My plan was just to concentrate on my own game, kind of hit my targets, try to play the ball rather than the occasion and the player. Obviously it's a lot easier said than done when you step on the court and you have Federer in front of you. 
 But I thought I did pretty well to do that, except for a few games that I kind of lost my concentration, you know, made a few mistakes. But I thought overall I did pretty well to kind of keep in my bubble and concentrate on myself. 

 Q. A couple times in the first set, you were down Love-30 on your serve. You were able to bounce back. Were you surprised by that? 
 VASEK POSPISIL: Well, yeah. I mean, obviously you don't want to be down Love-30. But I know I can get some free points on my serve so I just really tried to concentrate on the next couple, get a couple first serves in. 
 So, yeah, like I said, I wasn't trying to think of who I was playing. I was just going into that point being down Love-30 as if I was playing anybody else down Love-30, try to get some free points on my serve. I was able to do that, get out of those games.

 Q. What surprised you or struck you the most about his game?
 VASEK POSPISIL: I mean, I knew he plays fast. But it's another level of fast, to be honest. I've never felt a ball that goes through the court as fast as his does, especially his forehand. Yeah, I mean, I've hit with him in the past. I remember thinking that, too, when I hit with him. 
 But, yeah, he hits very fast. 

 Q. After the match in here Federer said great things about you, thinks you have an uprising career. What does that mean to you to hear that?
 VASEK POSPISIL: I mean, yeah, it's obviously great to hear that, especially coming from the greatest player of all time, one who I've admired for the last I guess eight years. 
 So, yeah, it's just good motivation for me to keep working on my game, keep working hard with my coach, you know, try to get to the next level.

 Q. What did you say to each other at the end of the match? Any words he gave you there?
 VASEK POSPISIL: Yeah. He just said, Good match, good luck in the future. I wished him good luck for the tournament, as well. 

 Q. We talked about your composure, how you were able to regain it. You may have lost it a couple of times. On the outside it looked like you were calm most of the time. What were you really feeling?
 VASEK POSPISIL: Yeah, I mean, at first I was a little bit nervous, for sure. After the first couple games, I actually did calm down and I felt pretty calm out there, to be honest. I did well to stay in my bubble. Obviously, I gained a bit of confidence after my win yesterday, too. So I was happy that I was able to kind of, you know, play a good match and stay calm out there. 

 Q. Yesterday you showed a real good touch at the net. Tougher to get to the net against Roger?
 VASEK POSPISIL: For sure, yeah, tougher to get to the net. Like I said, he plays really fast. He plays deep. It's not easy to get on the offense against him too often. I mean, that was one of the goals, I guess, today was to try to come in. 
 But, yeah, like you said, a little bit harder to do that today. 

 Q. Two crucial points where you tried the dropshot. 
 VASEK POSPISIL: I tried the dropshot? 

 Q. Yes. Hit the net. 
 VASEK POSPISIL: Yeah, I don't really remember which crucial points you're talking about there. 

 Q. One was a game point. Just wondering whether you want those back? 
 VASEK POSPISIL: No (laughter). I mean, I just did what felt right at the time. I mean, I thought overall my decision making was pretty good. I'm not sure about that. I don't actually remember what point you're talking about, so... 

 Q. What do you need to improve to get to the next level?
 VASEK POSPISIL: Uhm, a few things. I think I can serve better. I've served better in the past. My serve is still a bit up and down. My percentage, especially this week, hasn't been great from what I'm used to. 
 Overall just I think the more you compete at this level, the more comfortable you get. You kind of improve. You play with these guys, your game naturally improves. So to play at this level as much as possible would be good for my game, I think. 

 Q. Do you change anything when you're playing a top-20 player or top-10 player? Do you change your serve? 
 VASEK POSPISIL: Well, maybe. I mean, you know, this was my first main draw ATP, so maybe that's part of the reason why my first-serve percentage went down. Maybe I was trying to go for too much. 
 But, yeah, like I said, the more you play with these guys, the more comfortable you get. I think that will get better for me.

 Q. Where do you go next after this?
 VASEK POSPISIL: The US Open quallies. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions in French. 

 Q. How was it on the court? Exactly as you dreamt it?
 VASEK POSPISIL: Yes. It was like a dream when I entered the court. But after that I tried to concentrate on my game and forget about playing Federer. I think I did well, although he played extremely well. He's a very good player. 

 Q. He said you were very calm on the court. He said he was impressed by you. How does it feel to hear that?
 VASEK POSPISIL: That's incredible, hearing that from him. He's been my favorite for eight years. I've been watching his games on TV every week. So it feels good to hear that. 

 Q. Was the turning point of that match when you were up 40-Love on your serve and you lost that point? Was it the key? You seemed frustrated. 
 VASEK POSPISIL: Indeed, it was a very important point. I should have won that game. This is the kind of mistake you can't make against the best players of the world. 

 Q. How was this experience for you? 
 VASEK POSPISIL: It was an extremely good experience for me. I hope I will have other similar experiences. I know now there are some things I must improve in my game and I'm going to work on it very hard with my coach. I hope I'm going to be able to play more tournaments like this one. 

 Q. How did you manage the stress on court?
 VASEK POSPISIL: I'm happy with the way I did. I played good tennis. It's only a couple of points here and there that I missed, so basically I'm happy. 

 Q. How did it feel on center court with all the crowd cheering for you? 
 VASEK POSPISIL: It was incredible. There were so many people today and I will never forget this. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT