U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2014
Taylor Pendrith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Taylor, what was better about today than yesterday?  TAYLOR PENDRITH: Hit a lot more fairways today.  I only hit one yesterday actually, and hit 17 greens and gave myself a lot of good looks.  Yesterday I was playing from the rough and trying to get it on the green and 2-putt, and today I had a lot of nice birdie looks.   Q.  When you're putting the ball in the fairway, does that calm you down?  What do you like when you're getting it off the tee and in the short stuff?  TAYLOR PENDRITH: It's definitely an advantage out here, and the greens, playing from the rough, it's very difficult to get to front pins and get to any pin really.  So it's a huge advantage being in the fairway and when I'm hitting my driver good, I usually play good. Today I hit, I'm not sure how many fairways, but way more than one.  So, yeah, that's a big advantage.   Q.  Is there an adjustment you made on the practice range?  TAYLOR PENDRITH: Yeah, me and my coach kind of worked on just swinging left because I kind of have the tendency to drop it to the inside and when I swing left, I hit a little baby feed, so, yeah, I was thinking about that the whole time.   Q.  You've done a lot of great things this summer, the 65 at the Canadian Open.  Do those kind of things give you confidence going into this?  TAYLOR PENDRITH: Yeah, absolutely.  The Canadian Open was a great week; to shoot 65 in the first round, and actually left a couple out there, it just gives me confidence to know that I can play with pretty much anybody if I play my game. And last week at the Canadian Amateur, had a good week, as well, lost in a playoff.  I've got a lot of confidence going into this week and it was nice to get two good rounds out here.   Q.  When you put two rounds in like this, does that meet the expectations you have coming into the week?  TAYLOR PENDRITH: Yeah, I mean, coming here, I haven't made Match Play in the U.S. Am before; this is my third.  So obviously, that was the goal to get to match play, and I guess it starts now. Anything can happen in match play.  Pretty pleased the way I've played this week so far.  Could have been a lot lower but I'm happy.   Q.  Have you had a lot of experience in match play?  TAYLOR PENDRITH: No, not too much.  One year we made the NCAA finals and played Alabama in match play, and played some other things back home in Canada.  But not too much.  But it will be exciting.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT