RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2014
Taylor Pendrith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  TAYLOR PENDRIDTH:   Yeah, hit a lot of greens and I made some putts.   I felt pretty much every hole on the back nine I had to make every putt, and I made five of them.   It was a lot better than yesterday.

Q.   What was the biggest difference?
TAYLOR PENDRIDTH:   Hit more greens.   Hit a lot of greens.   Other than the last hole on 18, it was kind of disappointing, but for most the part I played solid all day.

Q.   How was your experience this week?
TAYLOR PENDRITH:   It was awesome.   Just to be out here, it's sweet and to play good and make the cuts feels good and to have another decent round today, it's awesome.

Q.   Is this a big step for your career, do you think?
TAYLOR PENDRIDTH:   Absolutely.   Just getting out here experiencing what the PGA guys experience every week, it's pretty awesome.

Q.   Is your family here and everybody else?
TAYLOR PENDRIDTH:   My family is here.

Q.   Like everybody?
TAYLOR PENDRIDTH:   My mom and dad are here.   My girlfriend's here and just them.

Q.   Can you take us through 18?
TAYLOR PENDRIDTH:   Bad swing.   Hit it left in the hazard and then didn't have a good lie.   230 to the pin.   I was just going to layup and make a 5 and hit a poor wedge shot.   It is what it is.

Q.   Seems like this whole week a break here and there and you could have had some really nice scores?
TAYLOR PENDRIDTH:   Yeah, for sure, a couple of swings I would take back, but other than that I'm playing pretty solid.   Keep doing what I'm doing hopefully have a good one tomorrow.

Q.   Yesterday there was a penalty on 6.   What was that for?
TAYLOR PENDRIDTH:   I hit a ball, lost it.   So I had to go three off the tee.

Q.   16, hit driver, looked like a relatively ballsy play into the wind.   What was your thought process?
TAYLOR PENDRIDTH:   Well, I was going to hit 3‑wood but I didn't want to be too far back.   If I missed the 3‑wood a little bit then I got 200 in. 
I was just feeling comfortable with it and I was aiming my driver good all day, pretty straight.   So just stepped up and rip it.

Q.   Are there places that you have to really dial back, is that going to be part of the process of figuring out like I mean you're playing pretty brazen golf out there, you're hitting the ball places.   Watched on 16 you hit 40 yards back, got short.   Is that going to be something you'll have to figure out, just kind of where to use the power you've got and how to use it best?
TAYLOR PENDRIDTH:   I mean, different courses suit my game more than others.   And this course is pretty good because I can hit driver on most holes. 
The back nine's a little tough.   But on other courses, if it's tighter, whatever, I don't have a problem hitting a 2‑iron and toning it back. 
Here, I feel comfortable with it.   And might as well.   Might as well hit driver if I have that advantage and have shorter clubs then might as well keep doing it.

Q.   What does tomorrow hold for you, put the throttle down andsee what can happen? 
TAYLOR PENDRIDTH:   Yeah, go out and play my game, see if I can make as many birdies as I did today, if not more, see what happens.

Q.   (Question off microphone). 
TAYLOR PENDRIDTH:   My goal for the week was just to come out here, have some good rounds, just like any other tournament. 
If I play good first two days, then I'll make the cut.   If I play poorly, I'll miss the cut.   And kind of had a good day and a bad day.   So made the cut on the number which was awesome, and then just it's awesome to be out here, play two more rounds on the weekends.   Feeling pretty good.

Q.   Talk to any of the guys before (inaudible)?
TAYLOR PENDRIDTH:   Yeah, a little bit.   I mean, the amateur team, they're all super excited just to be here.   They had a couple of difficult rounds I guess, couple difficult holes, but they're super excited to be here as am I.   It's a good experience to share with all of them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT