NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 23, 2009
Roberto Luongo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Today, the League is going to enforce if players miss an All-Star Game because of an injury, that they will be forced to miss their first game back after the break with their club team. What do you think of that?   
 ROBERTO LUONGO: I didn't know that. I mean I don't have an answer. If the player's injured, I don't see why that would be the case. But it's been discussed among themselves, and if that's the way they decide to go, I mean, I guess that's fine.   
  
  Q. Kind of maybe a draconian move on the League's part for the sake of trying to have players at the All-Star Game that are voted in or selected?   
 ROBERTO LUONGO: You know what, I think just to be selected to an All-Star Game is an honor. And you know, for myself, I'd always be part of it. Obviously last year I didn't get a chance to go. I had some personal issues, and I thought they were more important than the All-Star Game, but in other circumstances, it's a great honor to be part of a game like that. And it's fun. So I don't see why guys wouldn't come.   
  
  Q. In terms of the Skills Competition, you'll be here this weekend but not participating. Would you like to? Are you kind of happy?   
 ROBERTO LUONGO: I would have liked to have participated. You know, I enjoy the whole aspect of the All-Star Game, the skills and the game. You know, unfortunately, I think we've got to think about being cautious a little bit, too. Even though I'm 100%, we don't want anything to happen and get back to on the injured reserve or anything like that.   
 So it was a mutual decision between the team and myself.   
  
  Q. Is it almost an unfair battle, though, just because the boards can hotdog as much as they want. The goaltenders, what can they do in the Skills Competition?   
 ROBERTO LUONGO: Yeah, exactly. I mean, the other thing is it's always the last event, so we're just sitting on the ice for an hour, kind of not doing anything. So you're just standing there cold, and you've got to start and stop against the best players in the League.   
 So that's why the decision was made. At the same time, I will be on the ice and trying to enjoy it, and probably make fun of guys and stuff like that.   
  
  Q. Back on the CBA front, the Commissioner saying if you're not playing, you're opting out of the All-Star Game you're avoiding it and there could be suspensions. So your view is on that? Should it be negotiated?   
 ROBERTO LUONGO: Like I said, they were just springing it on me now. I didn't even know that that just came out. I really haven't had a chance to think about it. Did you say it was voted in?   
  
  Q. Well, for example, if Sidney Crosby, if he played in the final game for the All-Star Game, and he played, technically he shouldn't be playing in the first League back because he's injured. The League could suspend Sidney Crosby because he's opting out of playing.   
 ROBERTO LUONGO: You know, it's a tough call to make, I guess. You know, the League is, I'm sure, has thought about it a lot with the NHLPA. And if that's the decision they made, that's fine by me. I don't really have an answer either way for or against it, honestly.  
  
  Q. When you were growing up watching the All-Star Game, what did you think while you were watching? What was your impression?   
 ROBERTO LUONGO: It's just nice to see all the best players in the League come together and playing a game. Even though, you know, it's not an NHL real-life game, it's more lighthearted. But to see some of the skills on display and stuff like that is always exciting.   
  
  Q. Did you imagine yourself doing it? Could you picture yourself in it?   
 ROBERTO LUONGO: Yeah, I was always excited about the possibility of doing it, obviously. I've had a chance to do it. It's fun to be part of it. You try to take it in as much as you can and enjoy it.   
  
  Q. You've played in many All-Star Games, but are you looking forward to playing in your hometown?   
 ROBERTO LUONGO: Of course. I didn't know that I was going to be able to make it until probably a week ago. And, you know, I'd been out for so long I didn't know that I was going to get invited also. So there were a lot of things pending in the balance. But I'm just happy the way things turned out, and I'll be part of a great weekend, especially that it's in my hometown in front of my friends and family.   
  
  Q. Just so I'm clear, you're not competing in the Skills Competition?   
 ROBERTO LUONGO: No, I won't be doing that.   
  
  Q. How much does a goalie have to put into a weekend like this, because I know you don't like to go out and see pucks go by you.   
 ROBERTO LUONGO: Yeah, I think it's just a matter of you're not playing for stats or anything. You're just playing to enjoy it. It's kind of like a shimmy hockey game or playing on the pond. You just go out there and play. It doesn't matter how many goals you get scored on or anything like that. It's just having fun with the guys and trying to put on a show for the fans.   
  
  Q. What is your best memory of the Montreal Canadiens?   
 ROBERTO LUONGO: I think it's the '93 run of the Stanley Cup. Obviously the Cup, but all the overtime wins and those dramatic saves that Patty Roy made.  
  
  Q. Where were you? What do you remember at that time?   
 ROBERTO LUONGO: I was here in Montreal, obviously, and just watching it on TV. And just living the excitement through the television.   
  
  Q. Talk about the ticket requests, friends, family all that good stuff.   
 ROBERTO LUONGO: Yeah, a lot of them. A lot of them, between 30 and 15 people probably will be here. You know, but it's a once-in-a-lifetime thing. You want to be sure that as many people as you know can come watch.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT