NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
June 7, 2011
Roberto Luongo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Roberto.   
  
  Q. How do you bounce back?  
 ROBERTO LUONGO: The score doesn't really matter. We're in the playoffs. It's all about winning a game, right? As a team, we got to look at it we lost a game. We just got to get back to doing the things we do. No matter what the score of the game is, we have to keep playing our game, not deviate from our game plan.   
 Whether we're trailing by one goal or up by one goal, we have to play our game.   
  
  Q. You had back-to-back losses in the Chicago series. It seemed it affected you more.   
 ROBERTO LUONGO: Like I said before the series started, I waited my whole life to be here. I'm not going to put my head down. It's time to get back to work.   
 Obviously last night was disappointing for all of us. We have a great opportunity. We're in the Cup final. Even though there are going to be some tough times, you have to be in the moment and focus.   
  
  Q. They say they're rallying around Horton. Henrik says you're playing for Rome now.   
 ROBERTO LUONGO: We all feel bad for Rome. We don't feel he deserved what he got. We do it for ourselves, and obviously a teammate like Rome that won't be able to help us out for the rest of the series.   
 At the end of the day we want to win for all the guys in the locker room whether they're playing or not.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ROBERTO LUONGO: Alain asked me when there was about eight minutes left. I said I wanted to stay in. If I would have known they would have scored three more times, I might have thought about it (laughter).   
 Even though we were losing 5-1, it was a pretty intense game and I still wanted to be in there.   
  
  Q. What do you think happened at the end?   
 ROBERTO LUONGO: Obviously, they kept putting the pressure on. The game was pretty much out of reach for us. I don't know. I mean, they obviously were not satisfied with 5-1 and kept pressing. We started maybe taking our attention away from our game plan, started worrying about physical aspects of the game, which we shouldn't be doing at this point.   
   
    
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT