NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
May 31, 2011
Roberto Luongo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Roberto Luongo.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ROBERTO LUONGO: Yeah, it's two polar opposites. There wasn't a lot of pressure there as far as expectations, stuff like that. You could walk around the city, nobody really knew who you were. The good thing about here, it's fun to play in the city when you're winning. Everybody knows who you are and very supportive, especially at this stage of the season when your team has a chance to win the Stanley Cup. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ROBERTO LUONGO: Well, I mean, it's a hockey market. Obviously when things are not going well, sometimes you want to make sure that you try to stay away as much of that stuff as possible. You don't want to be focusing too much on all the negative stuff around you. You got to learn to deal with those things. 
 Obviously there's good and bad in every place you play. At the end of the day, it's so much more fun to win in a city like this. 

 Q. Talk about some of the preparation that's been going on the last eight days. 
 ROBERTO LUONGO: Obviously, we had a couple days off after the series was over against San Jose to relax a little bit, heal up the body. We had a couple of good days of practice afterwards just to work on a few things. After, we had another day off Sunday. The last couple days we really ramped up the intensity to make sure we wanted to be at the level that is expected of us once the puck drops tomorrow night. 

 Q. (Question regarding Tim Thomas.)
 ROBERTO LUONGO: Yeah, obviously we have different styles. Tim has had an unbelievable season, probably the best in the league. He's given his team a chance to win every night. 
 It's a good challenge for me, a good battle. There's different battles. I focus more on their opposition players and what I have to do to be ready against them, but at the same time you want to look at the guy on the other side and try to go save for save. 

 Q. (Question regarding 12-year contract.) 
 ROBERTO LUONGO: Yeah, I mean, not only for me, but when you sign the core group to long-term deals, that's first and foremost. What's important to me is this is an organization, not only Mike, but the ownership group, they want to win. They're willing to do whatever it takes. They signed the twins, make sure they stay here for a long time. That really showed me this organization is willing to do whatever it takes to win a Stanley Cup. That was important for me. 
 Obviously, I was very happy and flattered when they approached me with that term. 

 Q. Since the beginning of the Chicago series, have you felt better and better as the series have gone on?
 ROBERTO LUONGO: You know what, I felt good even in the Chicago series. Obviously I had a couple games where things didn't go that well. I think as a group we didn't play our best hockey those two games, myself included in that. 
 First three games I felt great. I think the first game we got a shutout, third game in Chicago I made a lot of key saves. Game 7, we obviously all saw what happened. 
 I've been feeling really good the whole playoffs except those two games. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ROBERTO LUONGO: Everybody is comfortable with different styles. Obviously he's a battler. He'll never give up on a play. He'll do whatever it takes to make a save, use any part of his body. You got to have a lot of respect for a guy like that. Sometimes you have no choice. 
 Even myself, included. There's certain things where there's broken plays or the puck takes a weird bounce where you have no choice but to throw whatever piece of body you can in front of it. 
 I think I used to do a lot more of that earlier on in my career. As we move along and I get more experience, I think I've gotten to the point where I try not to be in those situations, but when they do, you have no choice. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ROBERTO LUONGO: He's been a key piece of the puzzle the whole season. He's been crucial on our power-play, the success we've had there. He's got a great shot, obviously. He can also be nifty with the puck and find guys that are open to make plays. He's generated a lot of offense for our team.
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Ryan Kesler. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT