MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 19, 2014
Donnie Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I know this is your first week back on the bag.   What's that like?
DONNIE GREEN:   Well, we went through Q‑School and Jaye and I played great, but she wanted a tour caddie.   She picked Meaghan Francella who was great for here and she learned what a tour caddie is.
She decided to come back to her dad and try to get back to where she was and take what she's learned from me and put it all together. 
I knew it was going to come.   I thought she would shoot 10‑under today.   I did.   I told her.

Q.   Before or during the round? 
DONNIE GREEN:   Before.   Because I felt her.   I said, Oh, you're back.   You know, I knew. 

Q.   When did you know it?   Yesterday?
DONNIE GREEN:   I knew it yesterday, yeah.   I saw it coming back.   It's good to be back on the bag for us.   And the knowledge she's learned as our relationship has gotten 100 times better.   It's not easy, father/daughter.

Q.   She said can't help it, but when she hits a bad shot she looks over at you and you just make her laugh?
DONNIE GREEN:   Doesn't matter.   We're alive.   Just hit it anywhere you want.

Q.   You've had some back trouble.   Has that been keeping you of the bag?
DONNIE GREEN:   Not the back trouble, it's just this left hip.   That's all. 

Q.   Will you keep at it in the next couple weeks?
DONNIE GREEN:   As long as she wants me, I'll crawl in I have to.

Q.   You ever seen her cooking quite like that?
DONNIE GREEN:   Well, in Q‑School she was 10‑under the first round.   I thought for sure after first round, 72 or 73, she went 66.   She can do it.

Q.   So you felt the breakthrough was coming?
DONNIE GREEN:   I knew it.   She came in and had so many thoughts on her mind she was crying.   She decided I just want to be free and then she made it. 
Your rookie year does that to you.   You try and change everything and see everybody around.
She's coming up and starting to get there. 

Q.   What's the biggest thing of starting to get there.   Week after week just keep playing until you get there? 
DONNIE GREEN:   I always say ‑‑ have you ever heard of Weebles wobble but they don't fall down?   You're too young.   We had these things that were weighted at the bottom, and you hit 'em and they would pop straight back up. 
She's a Weeble.   She's been knocked down, but she gets straight back up. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT