WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 1ST ROUND POOL B
March 8, 2017
Alexander Ayala
Bladimir Banos
Roel Santos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Cuba 6, China 0   
 Q.  Let me ask a question for Mr. Baños, the starting pitcher.  That was a tough loss last night.  Right after the tough loss, you are the starting pitcher.  What was in your mind when you were on the mound?  
BLADIMIR BAÑOS: When I start the game, I knew this is an important game, not only for me, but also the whole Cuban team, so I concentrated very high, and I trust all my players behind me.  Today's game we played very well.  That's how I feel.  I could throw a lot of strikes and I could help the team as much as I can to get the victory.  That's what was in my mind.   
 Q.  You just gave up one base hit.  How do you evaluate yourself?  
BLADIMIR BAÑOS: Yes, I pitched the fifth inning, yes.  The quality was as good as I was expecting.  I tried to throw the pitch over home plate, and I'm trying to get them to swing and miss, and it did happen.  It did work well.   
 Q.  Mr. Santos, yesterday, you had one base hit, but the very next day, you had three base hits.  How do you feel about it?  
ROEL SANTOS: Good afternoon, everybody.  Yes, I am very focus on today's game.  For Team Cuba, I am very pleased what we did, and also personally, I am very confident with what I did.  I've got the leadoff spot and the leadoff guy is a very important role to get a victory in the baseball game, so I'm very pleased with what I did.   
 Q.  You've got great talent, especially for speed.  How do you feel about your speed?  
ROEL SANTOS: Yes, my strong point is speed.  Yes, I can say that.  So every time I play a game, I'm always trying to hustle, always, and trying to be on base and trying to get on the next base.  That's what the leadoff guy is supposed to be, and that's what I am always concentrated on.   
 Q.  You have a game against Australia on day after tomorrow.  What are you expecting by yourself as the leadoff hitters, because it's a very important game.  
ROEL SANTOS: Yes, the same job role, same spirit.  Just prepare for the game.  Always concentrate 100 percent.  As I am always doing, I'm trying to get the victory and I'm trying to play on 100 percent, and also, not only me, but also my whole team worked well, and I believe that we can go to the second round.   
 Q.  Last night you had an off-day and you didn't get a base hit.  But this afternoon, you had three base hits.  How do you feel about it?  
ALEXANDER AYALA: Yes, last night's game was an important game.  But Team Japan's pitchers threw tough pitches, so I didn't have a chance to get on base.  Last night, I didn't have luck.   
But my mentality is always the same.  So because I've got three base hits today, I've got some luck today.  That's how I feel.   
 Q.  You just played a night game until midnight, and the very next day you had a day game.  I imagine that it's tough to maintain your body condition.  How do you maintain that short period of time as a hitter?  
ALEXANDER AYALA: Yes, we didn't have enough time for sleep.  But when we left Cuba, physically, but also mentally, we prepared and we are ready for tough situations.  We are ready for that.  No matter what the situation, if it's tough, we have to get through this.  And if we can get through this, we believe we can go to the second round.   
The next game against Team Australia is going to be very tough, but we will keep self-confidence, so that could lead us to the second round.   
 Q.  Congratulations on your perfect pitching.  We Japanese press were expecting that you would start the game against Team Japan, but you didn't.  Since you didn't pitch yesterday, Japanese players were blessed.  If you have another opportunity to pitch against Team Japan, are you looking forward to face Team Japan?  
BLADIMIR BAÑOS: Yes, if I have a chance, not only me, but all the pitchers want to play and pitch against Team Japan.   
Team Japan, generally speaking, Team Japan is the most successful country for the past three tournaments.  So if God gave me the opportunity to pitch against Japan, yes, I'd love to pitch against them.  Of course, we have a lot of respect for Team Japan.  I'd like to win, but at the same time, I would like to pitch against Japan.  It's going to be a very historical honor for me.  Like I said, Team Japan had a great success for the WBC tournament for the past three tournaments.   
 Q.  You are just one home run away from hitting for the cycle.  Was it on your mind in your last at-bat?  You were just a home run from hitting for the cycle.  
ROEL SANTOS: No, it wasn't on my mind.  I was focused on the game, so I didn't recognize hitting for the cycle.  I just heard your voice and I just realized that I was one home run away from hitting for the cycle.   
But this is not something I deserved.  All I want is to lead the team to victory.  So I don't feel that much about hitting for the cycle.   
 Q.  You have great speed and we are quite surprised that Despaigne got a stolen base.  How do you feel about it?  
ROEL SANTOS: Yes, Despaigne has great speed, but also I have great speed, too.  So Despaigne, although -- Despaigne is not the only guy who can steal bases.  Team Cuba, we are all in very good condition.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT