ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 30, 2011
James Byrne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JAMES BYRNE: Hit a nice 7-iron on 13.
 14, I hit a good drive and from there, it was only 200 yards to the front of the green and actually fancied making another eagle and managed to hole a 40-foot putt for eagle so nice.

 Q. Without wishing to sound flippant, you must have been thinking at that stage, this professional life, quite a dawdle. 
 JAMES BYRNE: Fortunate to have two eagles in a row. But I felt like I had been playing well enough to be in contention at that point. And at the same time I knew there was tough holes coming in and just a couple of mental lapses today. 

 Q. I understand it will be difficult to offer any kind of reflection at this stage but can you give us an idea of what the experience has been like playing in your first sort of big Tour event?
 JAMES BYRNE: It's been fantastic. I felt good support going around. I felt like I've handled myself pretty well so far. Been too nervous playing, and the first tee a little bit shaky but it's okay. I've really enjoyed it.

 Q. I imagine the Walker Cup and playing in front of the crowds, obviously into the not too far from here as well, that would have given you a great foundation in many respects to deal with playing in front of people here. 
 JAMES BYRNE: I think the last month or so, I've played in some really big events with a lot of crowds and media and having to do that stuff, and handling myself well. That set me up really well, playing in front of the big crowds and the Johnnie Walker, as well, it's really helped.

 Q. Now looking forward to a weekend at the Old Course, what are your thoughts heading into there tomorrow?
 JAMES BYRNE: I'm looking forward to it. I need to try to get back to where I was, 10-under, try and do that over the course of the next couple of days. 
 I know the course fairly well. As amateurs we played it so many times and links golf so many times, so I feel like if I can play well and stay focussed and concentrate, I'll do okay.

 Q. In terms of the rest of the season, what are the ambitions? Are you like Tom, looking to earn enough not to have to go to Tour School, or what? 
 JAMES BYRNE: Yeah, I think so. I'm not going to get that many events before -- to get my card. So it's not going to be ease at all. My expectations before this week definitely wasn't to be in the top three, my first European Tour event as a pro. 
 So for me it's to play well and get a lot of experience before Tour School and if anything remarkable happens, that's fine. 

 Q. Have those expectations altered a little bit given how well you've played over the first two days? 
 JAMES BYRNE: Maybe a little bit, yeah. Obviously I realise that if I play well, I can compete and at one stage, might have been tied for the lead at one point. So yeah I suppose my expectations might be changing a little bit over the last couple of months with the Johnnie Walker and then the first couple of rounds being good here.
 But like I said I'm still just trying to play well, soak up the appearances and learn a little bit and set myself up well for Q-School. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT