U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2014
Taylor Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Two great rounds on two tough golf courses, and at the U.S. Amateur no less.  What does that mean?  TAYLOR MOORE: I mean, I've been playing well coming in, so I just wanted to stay patient out there and give myself some opportunities, and I did that.  I missed a couple greens.  I wasn't as sharp as I was yesterday but held it together and stayed patient and finished good today.   Q.  Did you have in your mind at all when you started today after sharing the lead yesterday that you would like to be at the top of the leaderboard again today?  TAYLOR MOORE: Yeah, I just tried to treat stroke play as a tournament within a tournament and still compete and stay aggressive today, which I did, but I wasn't as sharp. I just kind of used as a practice round for match play, in a way, getting another look at the course, but still hitting shots and trying to make putts and figuring out the greens.  I think I did a good job of that.   Q.  Did you learn some stuff, even when you were not as sharp as you wanted to be?  TAYLOR MOORE: Yeah, yeah, just which way the wind goes, because I feel like the wind works differently on this course that be the other one.  Holes run a different way, and the wind picked up kind of on my back nine.  It was good to see that and get used to that for the rest of the week.   Q.  You said you had been playing well.  What were some of your successes over the course of the summer?  TAYLOR MOORE: Played good in the Western Am and Trans Miss, finished seventh.  I took a little time off and rested, but I've had good practices back home and felt like I was pretty prepared coming in.   Q.  Should your score stand up and you are the medalist for the U.S. Amateur, what would that mean to you?  TAYLOR MOORE: It would be a pretty cool accomplishment.  I just think it would be a step in the right direction.  I've played well like I said the past year, past two years, and not that I'm due or anything, because this game doesn't owe you anything, but it's coming and I'm starting to play well, so it will be good.   Q.  And this is how many amateurs for you now?  TAYLOR MOORE: This is my third amateur.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT