U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2014
Taylor Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Tell me about shooting a 66?  TAYLOR MOORE: I just wanted to go out and hit a lot of greens out there and give myself some birdie looks and stay consistent, hit the middle of the greens.  Not attack too many pins, but hit some good shots out there and got into a good rhythm on the greens.   Q.  You got off to a fairly good start, birdied the first hole?  TAYLOR MOORE: Yeah, I birdied one par-5, couldn't go for it because it was too long, so I hit a good approach in there, 15 feet, pin high, made a good putt there and kind of got the run going.   Q.  You birdied 4 out of 6 holes in the middle part of the round.  What were you doing well?  TAYLOR MOORE: Yeah, 7 through 12 or 13, I just hit greens and gave myself looks.  I had really good speed on my putts all day and started seeing the lines really well.  I was just trying to ride it out because I was feeling really good on the greens.   Q.  Was there something special in that sequence that got it going or was there a par save somewhere?  TAYLOR MOORE: No, I mean, on the par-3, 8 I made one from just off the green that kind of got some momentum going.  I felt good.  Pulled a tee shot on 9, made a bogey there.  Didn't let it get to me.  Birdied 10, 12, and 13.  9 is just a tough hole if you missed it.  I short sided myself and hit a really good chip but couldn't get up and down.  That putt on 8 kind of got me going and feeling pretty good.   Q.  When you post a 66 in the first round and you're obviously trying to qualify here, what does that do for your mindset going into tomorrow?  TAYLOR MOORE: Yeah, just puts me in a good position going into tomorrow to make the top six before we get into Match Play and get a high seed.  I wanted a higher seed this year.  Shooting 66 puts me in a good spot, and I've got to go stay aggressive tomorrow, keep hitting greens and not let off the gas.   Q.  Is being a Medalist important to you?  TAYLOR MOORE: Yeah, it's important.  Anytime you win stroke play it's kind of like a mini tournament inside of a tournament.  It gets you going for Match Play.  I mean, it's not the most important, but I mean that's what's going to happen tomorrow and that's fine.  But if not, just get into Match Play and take care of business.   Q.  Obviously, you've practiced on the Highlands, what challenges does that course present as compared to what you played today?  TAYLOR MOORE: Yeah, I think it's a little more demanding off the tee box.  I feel like the greens on Riverside are a little more undulating, but there is a reason the play the PGA Championship on Highlands, so I'm sure I'll see tomorrow.  But I think it's a little more demanding off the tee box and certain par-4s on the doglegs, you have to be on certain sides of the fairways and stuff like that.   Q.  What goal or what did you expect of yourself when you started play today?  TAYLOR MOORE: I just wanted to stay within myself and give myself a bunch of birdie looks and opportunities.  I figured if I did that, whether I made them or not, I was going to play a decent round and be sort of consistent.  One bogey is okay.  You're going to make a couple of them out here this week.  I just wanted to stay within myself and play and stay calm on through.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT