THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2007
Seve Ballesteros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   STEWART McDOUGALL:  Ladies and gentlemen, I'll introduce Seve Ballesteros, one of the great names in World Golf.  Three times Open winner and for the past 30 years has been at the top there of the best known professionals.  I think it's appropriate that since he played in 1975, the first time, so it's appropriate that he wanted to be here today to make a brief statement. 
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  Good afternoon everybody and thank you  to everyone for being here.  Obviously it could have been very easy for me to send a press release and to stay home, but because I have my respect for you people, so I thought it was better to come here and speak to you all face-to-face because I think it's more fair. 
 First I'd like to say thank you to Peter Dawson for allowing me to use the media centre facilities for The Open Championship, the best tournament in the world, in my opinion. 
 The reason -- I say that, because I want to say something which is very important for me.  For a few months there was something confused inside of me.  There was a fight, internal fight.  My head say I think you should retire.  I keep saying that over and over, but my heart was keeping telling me that you would be better to continue playing and compete.  So it was difficult for quite a while.  But finally I decided this year to go and try in the Champions Tour. 
 So I went there, the weather was nice (laughter), but I only played one tournament and I came back.  So that really made me think very deeply and to really question, either you continue or you stop playing.  And I made probably the most difficult decision of my career as a player, and I decided to retire. 
 I have to say that golf give me so much over the years that it's really hard to give back, even 25 percent of how much I get.  It really gave me not only the pleasure of competing and enjoying the competition and feel the glory of winning, it give me the chance of traveling around the world, meeting people through dinners, cocktails and playing in pro-ams, and it give me the great feeling of the people who really show me the understanding and the appreciation of what I have done in the game of golf. 
 Obviously I feel very, very lucky, personally, and I'm very, very grateful for these things that really happened over those 30 years. 
 I want to make one remark, that whatever I say or I did something that hurt somebody else feeling or whatever, I apologize. 
 The people from the United Kingdom, they really were fantastic every time.  They were great.  There was kind of a good feeling between them and I. There was a good connection.  There was a good chemistry.  They really support me all the way and this is one thing that I will never forget.  I say that many times and I wanted to say it one more time.  Most of the tournaments that I won it were thanks to them, because they really support me very much and I feel it and I'm very grateful for that.  So thank you very much. 
 Obviously to you people, the media, you really put my name over and over in the headlines and articles all over the world.  Thanks to you, you made me look big and that was very nice and my sincere appreciation to you all, also. 
 To the players that I had the privilege and honor to play with, whoever was in the match play and medal play or side by side in the Ryder Cup, that was fantastic.  That was great and I have great memories for that.  I really appreciate that. 
 I want to mention also the sponsors over those 30 years, the European Tour, you people, again, the journalists, and the referees, my sincere appreciation, also.  You were nice to me. 
 I want to remark -- make one important remark that there were some rumors around the last week or so that not even close to reality, as you can see that.  I feel great, great.  But sometimes those things happens.  It's all behind.  And I want to thank the people who really worry about me, they send me letters, they send me phone calls and e-mails, faxes and everything.  And that really made me feel good, because I know -- I knew before, also, but I found out again one more time that they care about me.  I appreciate that and thank you very much everyone.  That was very nice.  Once more, I'm great.  I'm feeling great.  Thank you again. 
 My professional life from now on, it will be different.  I will probably concentrate and focus on my companies, Trajectory, the company that designs golf courses.  This is one thing that I enjoy very much.  And then with Heather & Company, the company that organizes the Royal Trophy and Seve Trophy and other events to help the European Tour.  Also I have a new company that is going to be on in 2008, it's called Motivational Training.  So try to use my experience with a bunch of people that set up a team to help people to find out the best way to achieve whatever goals they have.  I think it's something that is going to be very interesting and I'm looking forward to do that. 
 Obviously my priorities will be my children, my family and my friends and my companies.  Definitely this is not a real goodbye, this is I'll see you later, because I will continue to be involved with the game that gave me so much over the years.  This is very much what I wanted to say to you all and once more, from my heart, thank you to you all for what you have done over the years and thank you to the British people for their support.  Thank you very much.  Now, if you have any questions, the bar is open (laughter). 

 Q.  Will you continue to play golf on a friendly basis with your kids or people you know? 
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  Sure.  And I teach golf.  One is a scratch golfer and Miguel is a 3 handicap.  Three weeks ago I convinced my girl to play.  So, yeah, that's my intention.  Who knows, maybe one day I'll caddie with one of them or both and become the manager or the assistant or whatever, one day when they come to the media centre.  It's possible. 

 Q.  How much did the TV reports hurt and how much did they affect you making your announcement today? 
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  Well, because it was not truth, it is already all behind and that decision was made right after my return from America.  Whatever happens in the rumors has nothing to do with that decision.  That decision was decided right after the trip that I made from America.  I choose Carnoustie because Carnoustie was my first Open.  I thought that maybe it was the best place to do it.  The decision was nothing to do -- the only reason was because I just felt that it was the time for me to stop and to compete at a good level demands a lot of effort and a lot of things and I felt that I was not ready for that.  But in a lot of ways it's a little bit sad to say goodbye, but on the other hand there's one thing you knew was always going to happen sooner or later.  I thought this was the time. 

 Q.  What will be your future plans for The Masters tournament?  What will you do that week? 
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  Well, I have a lot of things in my head at the moment to do.  I don't know, maybe I go there and I'll do some commentating or maybe I'll go there to have the dinner, I enjoyed the Champions dinner, and walk the course.  I have no specific plans right now. 

 Q.  You're only 50 years of age.  Is it something physical that is causing you to call it a day?  Is it the back problem or is it deeper than that? 
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  No, it's just I don't have the desire.  I'm not willing to give away things that I don't -- that I did before.  You have to remember that I give away all my years of my teenage, you know.  I worked really hard from morning to night and I put all my energy and my effort into the game, focused a hundred percent and I thought that was enough.  For now I have a number of good years ahead and I'd rather spend the time with my three children and the rest of the family and my friends and spend time with the companies, as I say before. 

 Q.  It's good to hear you're in good health now.  But we understand you were submitted to the hospital with a heart problem, can you tell us a little bit about that, the background to that and what happened? 
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  Well, I think as a human being we all go to the hospital.  It happens from time to time.  And I just didn't feel -- I felt some kind of tension in my chest, and I just went to the hospital and they say that perhaps you have arrhythmia, and you better spend some time being in the hospital.  I was there for several hours and then they released me and I went home and that's it. 

 Q.  Do you have any idea how the jump was made from that incident in the hospital to the reports on Spanish television about your health? 
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  I don't know and I don't even want to know (laughter). 

 Q.  You gave us such great memories from really good days on the golf course.  But you've obviously reflected on this to come to this decision.  Is there one specific moment, one specific memory that you treasure more than any other when you look back on those great days? 
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  I remember Royal Birkdale.  Carnoustie was my first British Open, but I was injured.  Three days before I cut my right foot, right feet.  And I was limping and I missed the cut.  So I don't really have that kind of a good memory because of that.  So I didn't really compete in a good condition.  But obviously I remember very well Royal Birkdale in '76 when I was with my brother, Manuel, and I caddied for him in the prequalifier.  And then when I shot 69 the first day, they said, "Manuel, Manuel, congratulations, 69."  He said, "No, it's not me, it's my brother." 
 "Who is your brother?" 
 "This guy sitting over there."  He said, "Oh, shit, this is your brother?  I thought that was your caddie." 
 "Yeah, he's my brother, but he's a really good player."  So that was a good memory.  And obviously when I won the Royal in St. Annes my three brothers there.  That was a very emotional moment, when I crossed the green and they hug me.  That was fantastic. 
 And '84, that was great, on the 18th green, when I holed up.  That was great. 
 Again when I played with Nick Price and Nick Faldo, it was fantastic.  I think that was a great round there.  And I have great memories.  I have great memories from The Open.  I hit so many good shots and so many good things that happened that it's hard to describe how good I feel.  It was great. 

 Q.  When you look at the strength of the European Tour and you look at how Europe dominates the Ryder Cups, how much of a part of that do you feel responsible for and do you think that will be one of your legacies? 
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  Well, I think the Americans -- when I was on the Champions Tour for one week, they come over and speak to me about, say, what is your opinion about the Ryder Cup situation?  Why in the paper do you look so much better, and why do they keep beating us?  I say, that's a good question.  I don't have the right answer for you.  But it's been fantastic how well the Europeans are doing in the Ryder Cup and how much they have improved. 
 On the other hand, I think I just would like to see the Americans win the Ryder Cup again because it looks like there's only one side, there's no competition.  (Laughter).  We need to -- more competition, more close.  On Sundays it's no fair anymore.  But that's one of the legacies, things that I am leaving behind me, I think. 
 When I first started going to the Ryder Cup that was 1979 at the Greenbrier, and that time I didn't really know very much what the Ryder Cup was meaning.  I really didn't even care very much because of the previous shots.  But when I play in 1983 at Palm Beach, that was the first time that we, the Europeans, have a chance to beat the Americans, then I realized how important was that.  And from there on I really appreciate being on the team and it was fantastic and the competition was growing over and over.  I have tremendous memories.  From the first time when I played with Antonio Garrido, and then with Paul Way, great memories with Jose Maria Olazabal.  It was great.  And there were points, times, some kind of confrontation between players, but that was -- at one side I thought that was good.  That's probably the toughness of the competition and that was great.  I enjoyed all that.  And I think through the Ryder Cup I think the European Tour became bigger and golf in general all over Europe and I am sure it helped the growth in the United States and all over the world.  So it was great. 
 STEWART McDOUGALL:  I think we'll finish the interview at this point.  Before Seve departs, can I just say on behalf of all the assembled company, not only the assembled company, but on behalf of golf fans worldwide, can we thank you for 30 very exciting years.  One of golf's superstars.  (Applause). 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT