THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2007
Seve Ballesteros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SEVE BALLESTEROS:  It was raining quite a lot. 

 Q.  You're right.  It's been raining all morning.  We have puddles on the fairway.  Now do you think that will affect your fellow countryman, Sergio Garcia? 
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  The biggest problem in the links courses is the wind, and there's no wind at all.  So because it has been raining quite a lot, that will make the greens much more slow, much more soft, the fairways more soft.  So the golf course will be playing a little bit longer, but all in all it will be much easier. 

 Q.  You know what it takes to win a major championship, The Open Championship which you won on three occasions.  What has Sergio got to do to win today? 
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  Well, I think I've been watching the first three rounds and he seems to me like he's swinging the club very well.  He's very tranquil.  He is not making many mistakes.  He's playing very, very steady and he's keeping his emotions and his nerves very much in control. 
 With three shots advantage and his next rival is not very close, if he really plays a good, solid round and he's not making any silly mistakes, I think the Championship is very much in his hands. 

 Q.  That would mean, of course, another Spanish success.  How much would that mean to your country, Seve? 
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  Well, it would mean a lot because that would put golf very much on the top of the rest of the other sports and that would bring the friendship of the whole Spanish people into the game of golf, and it will really -- would really make golf much, much bigger. 

 Q.  We're really missing having you here, Seve.  Of course you announced your retirement earlier this week.  Are you missing being here? 
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  Good question.  I would like to be there, obviously, playing, but playing good.  When you're playing good golf it's a very enjoyable game.  But when things are not going your way and you don't feel physically good, sometimes the game makes you feel miserable.  And thinking about that, I'd rather be here watching. 

 Q.  What are you going to do with yourself, Seve, now that you're not going to play the game anymore? 
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  Well, just enjoy life a little bit more.  I've been concentrating on the game for so many years that I didn't have an opportunity to do and see things that I always wanted to do.  And obviously keep an eye on my three children; two of them, they play very well.  Baldomero is handicap zero and Miguel is three, and the little girl, and concentrate on the golf course design business and organize some tournaments in cooperation with the European PGA and other things I have in mind.  I have plenty of things to do already. 

 Q.  Of course you've got the Seve Trophy coming up? 
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  Of course the Seve Trophy, keeping an eye on the players, see how they're playing and seeing which ones I should pick before the tournament is starting in September at the Heritage Golf and Country Club in Ireland. 

 Q.  It's lovely to talk to you.  I presume you'll be watching the rest of the days play and cheering for Sergio and perhaps Jiménez, as well? 
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  Yes, I will. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT