BIG TEN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 9, 2013
Jordan Hooper
Lindsey Moore
Connie Yori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We're joined by Nebraska Coach Connie Yori and Jordan Hooper and Lindsay Moore.   Coach, an opening statement.
COACH YORI:   I thought Purdue played really well.   Really, they kind of had a lot of the facets of their game going.   They got the ball inside on us, and they drove it.   They got their transition game going.   They hit enough perimeter shots.   And the game was decided by what I call the two elephants, and the elephants in the game were rebounding and turnovers.   And we didn't really take care of either of those areas and, really, that was costly for us.
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for the student‑athletes.

Q.   Lindsey, I think you guys had a couple of chances to get it in the single digits in the second half.   What prevented you guys from making a run and were they doing anything specifically? 
LINDSEY MOORE:   I think we just missed some easy buckets inside.   We had good looks at it to break into the single digits, but we just weren't able to connect on it.

Q.   Lindsey, was there anything in particular they did against your defense that helped them in the first half, at the end of the first half, and then throughout the second half? 
LINDSEY MOORE:   I just thought their post play today was really, really excellent.   They knew what they wanted to do, and they were able to really do it.   They have a good post presence inside with their postups that they have.   So I think they just did a really good job of executing that, and playing into their strengths.

Q.   KK had six steals in this game.   How much does her pressure bother you guys in the back court?
JORDAN HOOPER:   Well, I mean, it bothers us quite a bit.   We can't get the ball advanced up the court, can't really do what we want to do in that facet.
But usually we can set drags between stuff like that and it releases pressure. 
LINDSEY MOORE:   She did a good job defensively today.   She's a risk/reward player, and so she just was able to come up with steals and it was rewarded for her.

Q.   Jordan, their playing inside was really strong.   What did they do specifically?   Is it positioning type of thing or are they just‑‑ just have skilled big men?
JORDAN HOOPER:   I mean, they get pretty deep position on us.   We're not as big as physical as they are, and they can pretty much back us down and didn't really have an answer for that tonight.
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   Questions for Coach. 

Q.   What changes did you make after the first half when they shot like 54percent?   Seems like they shot a lot worse in the second half.   Did you change anything or did you just emphasize some stuff?
COACH YORI:   Well, we ran some more zone.   We ran more zone in the second half early.   And but then we still played a lot of man as well as the half wore on. 
But we just got‑‑ we allowed too many easy post touches in the first half.   And I thought that was a big key for them shooting the percentage they did.

Q.   Coach, the offensive rebounding numbers were pretty similar, but I feel like the rebounds that they got were more impactful, just in bigger situations.   Did you feel that way, that they always got the one that matters?
COACH YORI:   This is the elephants I'm talking about.   The two elephants.   Even though the turnovers weren't significantly different, the rebounds, offensive rebounds weren't significantly different, but they cashed in on both of those areas.   They were able to, when they turned us over, it led to baskets.   When they got offensive rebounds, they were able to shoot a high percentage there.

Q.   How did you feel like they adjusted when it was a close game?   You guys got out 21‑20, how did you feel like they adjusted, or did you guys just not play well in that stretch at the end of the first half? 
COACH YORI:   Well, I thought they‑‑ again, I'm kind of going back to they got the ball inside on us too much.   They crashed the glass.   And we didn't do a good enough job of boxing out.   And they got some easy baskets there.   And we got taken out of our offense a little bit.   We weren't as efficient as we needed to be. 
So I just thought Purdue played well.   I think that's a big part of it. 
THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   Thank you, Coach. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT