AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2020
PATRICK MAHOMES
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Patrick Mahomes, Most Valuable Player of Super Bowl LIV. He recently signed a new contract with the Chiefs. Keeps him in Kansas City for years to come. This is his inaugural American Century Championship at Edgewood Tahoe. Listed at 500-to-1 odds at Caesar's.
Q. What does this contract do for your psyche? Does it allow you more to relax and be the Chiefs' quarterback?
PATRICK MAHOMES: Yeah, for sure. Anytime you do something like this, where you know where your future is and you know you have security and you know you're going to be somewhere you can build something for a long time, it definitely eases your mind a little bit.
I was blessed to be in a great organization, and I'll be in that organization throughout probably my entire career. So I'm excited for that.
Q. And then there's obviously been some speculation about how your contract might affect the Chiefs' ability to sign more talent or extend other contracts. Is that true? And what is your reaction to that?
PATRICK MAHOMES: I think the best thing about my contract and the length and the different things we put in is it allows a lot of flexibility, allows a lot of flexibility to go out and get players and keep players.
And I think you saw with the 20 of 22 starters coming back this next year and having guys locked up for a long time already, that we'll be able to have a great team around me for a long time; and I'm very excited about it.
Q. You mentioned in a story this week that there are a lot of activities that are forbidden for you now. Obviously golf isn't one of them. How much do you love golf, and is it even more important now that you can't do so many other things?
PATRICK MAHOMES: I pretty much do the same thing every day as far as either I'm working out or I'm on the golf course. So I like golf a lot. I get in, get my workouts in, usually, and go out there and play a round or a couple of holes or whatever it is. And so definitely I'm not allowed to do a lot of different things. I think that's how it works when you sign a contract and do different these things and you try to be a leader in the franchise. I'll just go about my business, do what I usually do and do what got me here.
Q. Many athletes have foundations, charitable arms and such. Obviously with this big contract you can do a lot of things. Do you have your own foundation? If so, how is that going to affect you?
PATRICK MAHOMES: I have a foundation called 15 and the Mahomies, and we really broke the ground in Kansas City, the Kansas City community, and Tyler back home where I'm from. Obviously having this contract now it will help me to be able to maximize that and hopefully move it to more of a nationwide, worldwide thing, where I can help out as many people as possible.
Q. And then obviously a lot more attention this week, but how has your life changed since the announcement of the new contract?
PATRICK MAHOMES: I mean, not much. My dad texted me, I think, yesterday and asked me how I was feeling. I feel exactly the same as I did before the contract. I mean, having the security and being financially secure and knowing my family and my future generations are going to be secure is awesome. But to me, it's always been about playing the game and playing it with love for the sport, and I'm going to keep doing that every single year.
Q. Is this your first time here, and what do you think about the course and Lake Tahoe?
PATRICK MAHOMES: It's the first time at this tournament. I came to Lake Tahoe last year, bachelor party with one of my buddies, one of my good friends. First time I've got to play the course. Amazing course. I'm looking forward to playing this weekend, being back in the future tournaments to come.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT