KEMPER OPEN
June 5, 1998
Brian Kamm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BRIAN KAMM: Okay.  Well, I think when you have three eagles in a row, that's something pretty special.  And one yesterday.  So I've had four eagles this week.  That kind of puts the score right down there.  You want me to talk about the eagles?

BRIAN KAMM: Okay.  I got the number 6 today, and it was playing kind of short.  I had a really good drive, 5-iron in there about 8, 9 feet.


Q.  Driver?

BRIAN KAMM: I used a driver off the tee, yeah. Driver, and I drove right to the left side perfect.  And I had a straight angle in it.  And I had a good shot in there and made it.  I was a little upset because I just missed a 3-footer on the hole before for birdie.  So it was kind of nice to get it in.


Q.  What did you hit to the green, I'm sorry?

BRIAN KAMM: 5-iron.

BRIAN KAMM: 8 or 9 feet, uh-huh.


Q.  You cut it in there, or went over the tree?

BRIAN KAMM: I went over the tree, went right over the branch and hit straight -- maybe a little bit of a drop and hit kind of off a mound to the right and kicked right toward the hole.


Q.  That's the way you played it?

BRIAN KAMM: Yeah, I was playing a percentage shot.  I was taking the water out of play.  And then I get around to -- I'll tell you, the hole before almost set it up.  I get the 12, I hadn't really hit any bad golf shots at all, you know, and I hooked it in the water on number 12.  Then I had to drop it.  I hooked it so quick that I couldn't even go with the green once I dropped it off. I had to chip it out in front of the guys' drives.  So I'm line three, 170 yards from the hole, maybe 165 or something, and I had an 8-iron three feet and made it for bogey.  That was a big momentum, kind of keep it there.  Then I get on 13 and I drive it.  I drove it too far. I drove it right on the downslope, went over the hill.  I was standing on my head hitting the shot.  I had 200 yards in front of the green and I said, you know, the only way I can hit this shot is if I took out a 6-iron.  I had a hard hook off the hill  short and I landed 20 yards short of the green and rolled it up on the green.  I hit it absolutely perfect.  Rolled right on the very front of the green.  And I had a 30-footer straight uphill, and I made it.  My caddie tried to get me to drive it in the next hole.  'Cause I knocked it out -- I knocked it on the green. So I said I'm hitting my wedges too good, lay it up, and I didn't make birdie.  Then I got to 17, and we're talking over the shot.  I don't know what the yardage was, over 200 yards.  The wind wasn't really helping that much.  So I was thinking 5, pretty much a 5, maybe an outside shot on a hard 6.  He was thinking well, you know, you might need 4 to get it there.  I said there ain't no way I'm hitting 4, 5's got to be perfect.  I hit the shot, and it was right up in the air.  It was high and it was right on line.  The first thing I said was get down, because I was thinking I can maybe get those six.  And then before it landed, I said -- I told my caddie, I said that's perfect.  I just hit about four feet short of the hole and rolled it right in.  And then, heck, I'll tell you what, I had a beautiful shot on 18, about 12 feet.  And I don't know how that putt didn't go in.  My last hole, I was really surprised.  Lipped down on me.


Q.  At 17, the pins are far back today, are your eyes good enough to see it go in?

BRIAN KAMM: I could see it.  I could see it disappear.  It's way back.  But I could see it way in.  I was kind of watching it and you could see it disappear.


Q.  So you didn't have to wait for the cut -- you knew, you had three eagles in one day?

BRIAN KAMM: I knew, yeah.  When I saw it, I raised my hands right away.  I knew it had gone in.  It's kind of funny. You know, yesterday on 14, he wanted me to drive on 14 again yesterday.  I laid it up and I hit a perfect L-wedge, like 85 yards, hit three feet short of the hole, went past the hole and spun back in for 2.  So I mean, when you start holing, holing shots, you know, you know something's going right.


Q.  What was your first thought when you actually saw the hole-in-one go in?  Did you have a thought?

BRIAN KAMM: Yeah, I said this is unbelievable.  I looked at Brian Henninger and we just started laughing.  Joe Ozaki -- I played with Joe at the Bob Hope and he had a hole-in-one.  He's a really nice guy, a good golfer.


Q.  As you guys were walking 18, did you compare notes, whether you ever heard anybody getting three eagles in one day?  Is that a record?

BRIAN KAMM: We didn't talk about it at all.  I was  just pretty much trying to focus on 18.  It was a pretty tough hole today.


Q.  What did you say -- I'm sorry, what did you say you hit yesterday at 14?

BRIAN KAMM: I hit like an 80 -- I think it was 86 yards.  I had an L-wedge.  It was really a nice number for me, and I hit.  It was looking good all the way and it went in.


Q.  How are you feeling right now?  Can you believe what you just did?  You're taking it pretty well.

BRIAN KAMM: Well, I played so poorly this year, and it's been very frustrating.  I kind of had -- I've kind of been working on my game.  I actually got my best friend caddying for me this year, just this week he came up.  He played college golf with me at Florida State.  I just let my caddie go last week, you know, just for a little -- I said I have to change something up, we're kind of stale.  And he's really -- he knows my swing and he's worked with me before, and we're just -- I worked so hard on Tuesday.  I mean, I was exhausted when I got done hitting balls, walking the course, playing and hitting more balls.  And I did the same thing on Wednesday to get my swing back kind of firm.  It had gotten kind of loose and long.  I really firmed it up, and I'm turning much better.  It's not a surprise that I played better, because I actually -- my confidence was very low when I started this week.  And it's growing right now.  You know, because it's no fluke on hitting good shots.  There was no -- you know, when they go in, it's very fortunate when you make shots, there's no doubt about that.  But I'm hitting a lot of shots at the hole.


Q.  What's your caddie's name?

BRIAN KAMM: His name is Keith Kulzer.


Q.  Could you spell his last name, please.

BRIAN KAMM: K-U-L-Z-E-R.


Q.  You say he went to school with you?  Was he on the golf team with you?

BRIAN KAMM: He's played a NIKE TOUR for three years. Now he has his own business.  He lives right in Tampa, right where I live, couple miles.


Q.  If it has only been done about 10 times in 30 years, that's a rare -- it's like a no-hitter in baseball.  Do you feel like a no-hit pitcher, or what does that feel like?

BRIAN KAMM: You know, I don't.  Because you feel like there's so much more -- I think there's more luck involved in making shots from the fairway than there is for striking out somebody with a good pitch.  Do I feel like it's  something spectacular?  Not really.  But do I feel like it was good? Yeah, it was very good, because I hit it at the hole a lot today.


Q.  Some of us are very resentful, when we have had one our two in our lives! 

BRIAN KAMM: It's been fortunate.  It's --


Q.  Have you ever played another round of golf like this?

BRIAN KAMM: Actually, I've had a double eagle and eagle in the same round before.


Q.  Where was that?

BRIAN KAMM: It was -- it's an amateur tournament called Monroe Invitation in Rochester, New York, where I grew up.  I did it in the -- I've had a pair of eagles before.


Q.  What course was it?

BRIAN KAMM: It's called Monroe, Monroe Golf Club.


Q.  Did you say how many hole-in-ones you've had in your life?

BRIAN KAMM: This was either 7 or 8, I'm not sure.  I can't remember.  I had -- I think -- I don't know.


Q.  Do you guys --

BRIAN KAMM: I had one last year.  I lost my tour card last year and I played a NIKE TOUR and I had one.  I had one in the tournament last year, so that might have been seven, so this might have been eight.  I think, yeah.


Q.  Do you guys count them all, including practice rounds and --

BRIAN KAMM: Oh, sure, absolutely.  In fact, I think the only -- I've only had three that have been competitive. Everything else has been other times.


Q.  Again, going off of what Tom has just asked you, you almost sound like you treat your eighth hole-in-one as pretty casual.  Are you pretty excited about it?  I think we're all lucky enough to get one in our lives.

BRIAN KAMM: I guess I am kind of taking it casually. I was pretty happy and pretty excited about it.  When you're playing golf on the tour, you're not looking at the ultimate goal as the hole-in-one; you're looking at the ultimate goal as winning the golf tournament.  I think that's kind of how I'm looking at it.  Yes, that was nice to do.  But right away, you got to get back to focus.  Let's hit a good drive, let's birdie the last hole.


Q.  When was the last time you won a golf tournament?

BRIAN KAMM: Won a golf tournament, I think in 1992. '92, 1992.  '92 I won a Ben Hogan Event Panama City.  I won that in '92.  Last year on the NIKE TOUR I finished second three or four times.


Q.  In your years on tour when you've gotten close to (inaudible) breakthrough round and finished high or --

BRIAN KAMM: I've kind of had -- I've had -- Canadian Open has been a big tournament for me every year.  '93, 4 and 5 when I finished about 100th on the money list three years in a row, maybe a little better than that.  I've had three top eights or so at the Canadian Open.  That's probably the biggest money tournament of the year.  And I think through those years I never had anything better than the 5th or 6th place finish.  But I've had a lot -- a lot in the 5th and 10th place range.  I think I had three, four lows a year, and that's kind of how you make your money going.  I've never really had a real high finish.  It's kind of good, solid play that's kept my cards.


Q.  Are you a streaky player like this?  Do you have times where all of a sudden you do something like this and then not play so well after that?

BRIAN KAMM: I don't think so.  I think when I'm playing good, you know, I play good the whole week or for a few weeks.  I don't think it's a one-round type of thing.  I played very good yesterday.  I mean, I shot 2 under and just -- I didn't putt very good yesterday.


Q.  But this is sudden, right?

BRIAN KAMM: This is kind of a sudden thing.  I actually -- you know, I wasn't in for three weeks.  I didn't play the Byron Nelson, I didn't play the Colonial, and I wasn't getting in the Memorial.  I actually played a Nike last week. I actually worked with my teacher last week, David Leadbetter, and we worked on putting more than anything else.  We didn't work on my golf game, other than he said let's get away from the mechanics and get into making good turns and using your body better instead of thinking of position with your club and stuff like that.


Q.  You've been in spots like this before in the middle of tournaments, obviously, where you have to decide what your playing strategy is.  In other words, do I maybe take the odd chance here and there and try to win, or get a top 2 or 3 finish, or do I try to finish this way?  What is your thinking?

BRIAN KAMM: Well, I think every shot is individual.  I don't look at tomorrow's round and what I'm going to do.  I don't know what I'm going to do.  I'm going to try to play the percentage shot every time I get there.  But do I back away and play chicken?  I don't think so.  I go up -- I wanted a par 5 yesterday with a 3-wood into that 6th green and made birdie because of it.  It was a tough golf shot.  As far as driving on 14, I don't think that's -- I don't think that's being chicken; I think that's just being smart.


Q.  So is it -- do you think you're hitting the ball better this week or putting better?

BRIAN KAMM: I'm hitting the ball better.  I haven't putted very well.  I haven't putted poorly, but I haven't putted well to be where I'm at.  I hit a lot of fairways off the tee.  I missed two fairways yesterday, and I'm not sure what I did today.  I know I hit the bad drive on 12, and I think I missed the first hole.  But going through my round, I don't think I missed any other fairways other than two fairly  -- I think I missed four fairways in two days, that's it.  One was a real bad one.  That cost me a stroke.  I was pretty lucky to bogey.


Q.  Do you know whether or not you -- ( inaudible)? 

BRIAN KAMM: I finished 10th or 11th here in '92.  The year that I was playing, I had dual status on the Hogan Tour and on this tour.  And I had played -- I played this tournament that year, and I think I finished 10th or 11th.  So I've actually had a good tournament here before.  The golf course is a real shot-maker golf course.  You're not going to whiff around this golf course and play any good.  There's enough trouble and water, and every green has little separate undulations.  You have to get it on the right side of the humps and stuff.


Q.  Do you like that, the fact that the guy who built it is very proud of that, that it's a shot-maker type of golf course?

BRIAN KAMM: Yeah, I like that.  I mean, this tournament got a bad rap because I think maybe we played here too early.  When I was a rookie in '90, it was already a pretty good golf course.  I liked it.  The first time I played here I went a round and shot 44 in the back nine and found every creek and every water pond you could find.  You got to -- if you're going to win this golf tournament, you have got to hit the golf ball the whole way around.  There's no lucking around this course.


Q.  Kite says the same thing.  I mean that's one of the first things that sort of made him fall in love with it and said this is a real good ball-striker, good thinker's course.

BRIAN KAMM: We looked at shots, got 200 yards here, 190 here, we're hitting in the areas, not the whole green, going this isn't an easy golf shot, got to get a good shot here.


Q.  I take it it's been a little while since you've been able to stroke off the leader or tied for the lead of a tournament?

BRIAN KAMM: Here, yeah.  A couple -- like I said, the week of the Masters I played in Shreveport and lost by a shot there.


Q.  That's not quite the same as this, though?

BRIAN KAMM: No, it's not the same as this.  But it is -- but it is the same.  It's not -- as far as -- but it's still the same situation.  You might look at it as saying okay, out there there's no superstars, per se.  But everybody can still play out there.


Q.  The money is a little greater here, right?

BRIAN KAMM: You can only get so nervous.  You can only get so into your shots.  I don't think that -- when you're trying to win a golf tournament or trying to get through golf, trying to win there, trying to win there, you're going through the same thought process.  I don't think that the money is a big deal.  It's trying to win, it's difficult and very emotional.  Trying to win.  No matter where it's at.


Q.  How did you do in the Nike event last week? 

BRIAN KAMM: I finished in the middle of the pack.  I think I finished 40th or something like that.  I didn't really  -- I didn't play that well.  But I saw improvement from the weeks previous.

BRIAN KAMM: Birdied number 2, a good solid driver 3-wood.  Hit an L-wedge in there about 12 feet, made it. Pretty basic birdie.

BRIAN KAMM: 15.  15's got me two days in a row.  I've driven it perfect there two days in a row, I've hit 3-iron and 4-iron in my hand and just -- today -- today I three-putted.  I hit it on the front of the green and knocked it by 6 feet and missed it.  Yeah, I hit an awful shot.  I didn't commit to my shot, had a way right.  I've driven it perfect off that hole and made bogey both times.  It's a little disappointing.


Q.  Do you have a nickname on tour or are we free to call you "Eagle Kamm?"

BRIAN KAMM: I've had 20 nicknames through my whole life.  I don't even want to start with them.


Q.  We can't let you go now.  You have to give us a couple of them.

BRIAN KAMM: Through college and through home, there's been --


Q.  What does your caddie call you?  What does Keith call you?

BRIAN KAMM: Probably Bode.  That's short for-- my last name is Kamm, and people used to call me the Cambodian.  The bodian went down to Bode.  So it's pretty simple.


Q.  There's got to be a couple others that you hate.

BRIAN KAMM: Nah, that's all right.


Q.  Who do we ask to find out?

BRIAN KAMM: Okay.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT