DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP MEDIA DAY
August 3, 2015
Jacques Brand
Andreina Nieves
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  MIKE ANTOLINI: Good morning. Welcome to the 2015 Deutsche Bank Championship media day. My name is Mike Antolini, and I am the Vice President of Championships for the Tiger Woods Foundation. Thank you, all, for joining us today. We are just 28 days away from the 13th Deutsche Bank Championship over Labor Day Weekend. Very excited for the week. 
We're very fortunate to have a committed title sponsor in Deutsche Bank and also the support of our founding partners, Wall Street Journal, PBS Radio, and Gulf Oil. I'd like to acknowledge Tiger Woods Foundation President and CEO Rick Singer who is in the room, in addition to our Tiger Woods Foundation board member and Deutsche Bank deputy CEO of North America Bill Woodley. I'd also thank and acknowledge the 1,500 Blue Crew volunteers led by Danielle Sicard and Jack Rawitz, who are both with us today. I'd like to thank and acknowledge the town of Norton and its town manager Michael Yunitz and the town of Mansfield and its town manager Bill Ross for their continued support here in the local community.
We have a terrific host site at TPC Boston. We thank them for their hospitality for hosting us today, and they're led by their general manager Dan Wazlewski and superintendent Tom Brodeur and their fantastic team, and each year we're very grateful for their support and hospitality in hosting us over Labor Day Weekend. 
The Tiger Woods Foundation has served as the primary charitable beneficiary of the Deutsche Bank Championship since 2003, and this is the third year that we are running the event as its host organization. We're very proud of the expanding role that we've played in this region. The DBC, as you know, is the second leg of the FedEx Playoffs and will welcome the top 100 players in the FedEx rankings to TPC Boston this Labor Day Weekend. 
There's been a tremendous amount of excitement across the PGA TOUR this year, and again, the field will be nothing short of spectacular. We're anticipating a collection of the best players in the world, including Jordan Spieth, Rickie Fowler, Bubba Watson, Jason Day, Justin Rose, Phil Mickelson, defending FedExCup champ Billy Horschel, New England's own Keegan Bradley, and these are just a few. I could really stand up here for a while and rattle off the world's best who are going to be joining us over Labor Day Weekend. 
We expect great crowds again this year. The overwhelming amount of support that we receive from the Boston and New England communities has been very much appreciative, and we task ourselves really with continually trying to elevate the experience. 
This year we are excited for some fan enhancements. The Champions Club on the 17th fairway will feature a second level. We'll have a DraftKings Lounge in there for fans to enjoy. We are introducing new reserved box seats greenside at 17 and also in the Gosling's Dark 'N Stormy Terrace on 18, which we're very excited about. 
The signature par‑3 16th hole will have a new tee debuting for the DBC this year. You'll actually see it today. It will play approximately 190 yards, so it's going to extend the hole a bit, and our signature skybox will sit right behind that new tee overlooking all the action on the par‑3 signature 16th. 
Tickets are selling fast, especially in these upgraded areas, so we encourage all to visit DBChampionship.com to secure your tickets. 
The Deutsche Bank Championship will again pay tribute to our armed forces by offering active duty and retired military service members with complimentary admission into our Military Patriots' Outpost on the 17th tee. This is all made possible due to the great support that we have from Deutsche Bank and new military supporting partner, TempurPedic.
The DBC is a powerful vehicle that improves our community, and we're very proud of the more than nearly $700 million in estimated economic impact brought to the region since 2003. The DBC supports several causes that are important to both Deutsche Bank and the Tiger Woods Foundation, and we're proud of the impact that this championship continues to make, and we wouldn't be where we are today without the support of Deutsche Bank and its leadership. 
Here with us to talk about Deutsche Bank's role as a title sponsor and their focused support of both veterans and education, please welcome Deutsche Bank CEO of North America, Jacques Brand. 
JACQUES BRAND: Good morning, everybody. Thank you, Michael, for your kind words. It's great to be back here at TPC. I know that all of you look forward to playing the course this afternoon, and I'm sure that you'll have a great time. 
As Mike mentioned, this is our 13th year sponsoring this tournament. Mike was very gracious to talk about or thanking Deutsche Bank. I want to take a moment to thank Mike and his entire crew, including all of our volunteers for all they do to make this championship a world‑class event, so thank you very, very much, Mike. 
Mike started to name, I think, the top 100 players who are going to be here. I'm sure it's going to be a fantastic tournament. We look forward to it, and this championship not only has a positive impact on the course, but it equally has a positive impact off the course, and each year the championship gives back to the local community. 
As you recall in 2013 we raised money for the victims of the tragic Boston Marathon bombing, and the 2013 champion at that time, Henrik Stenson, generously and very spontaneously gave a portion of his winnings on the 18th hole. 
Last year our cause and our focus was veterans, which continues to be‑‑ they continue to come back to this country in record numbers, and last year we supported the veterans in the Boston area by sponsoring what is now the largest veterans' career fair at local nearby Gillette Stadium. It was so successful last year, we're going to do it again on September 2nd. It's a really inspiring event that connects veterans with employers and shows those employers the unique skills that those veterans have. I was there last year. I'll be there again this year. 
I'd like to thank Rob, Art, who's here from RecruitMilitary, and is our partner on that. 
This year we're highlighting and we're supporting access to education, and we're highlighting those education programs that support very highly qualified, low‑income students to get into college, and the organization that we're supporting is Strive For College, which helps students get into college. 
Now, many of these students are the first in their families to go to college, and I know how transformative this experience can be from a personal perspective, because I was the first in my family to go to college, and I know that it has facilitated my three sons and hopefully has improved their lives and the next generations of Brands, including one son who is here today.
Strive is very important in what it does because each year there are 400,000 qualified low‑income students who can get into college but never make it there, and for many of them, it's because there are not enough counselors who are there to guide them through the process of admissions, the process of finding the right college and financial aid, and in most public schools in the United States, there is only one counselor for every 500 students, and that number actually doubles when you look at low‑income areas where there is one counselor for every thousand students. 
Strive For College helps to match students with the college that's right for them and helps them to get financial aid. They do it with mentors. It's a very, very simple idea, and it changes lives of many generations to come. 
Within our own firm, not only are we providing financial support for our employees, we're also providing financial support for employees who are actually donating of their time in order to be mentors, and we hope to encourage everybody who comes to the championship to volunteer to be mentors, including all of you hopefully, and we'll have information at the championship in order to sign up as mentors. 
The founder of Strive For College is here today. I'm looking for Michael Carter. There he is. And so all of you will hopefully get an opportunity to meet Michael and learn more about the program. 
As Mike mentioned earlier, I'd also like to acknowledge Rick Singer, who is the CEO and president of the Tiger Woods Foundation. The Foundation has done so much for the cause of education. You'll be hearing from one of the Earl Woods Scholars in a moment, which I know I'm looking forward to it, and you'll hear her story. 
So on and off the course, the championship celebrates everybody who's working hard to fulfill their potential. I hope all of you have a wonderful day today. I look forward to seeing you over the course of the day and certainly look forward to being with all of you in September when the tournament kicks off. Thank you. 
MIKE ANTOLINI: Thank you, Jacques, and again, we wouldn't be able to make the impact that we are making through this event without Deutsche Bank and also our local presenting partner, EMC, as well. The Tiger Woods Foundation provides college access to underserved youth through programs that include internships, workshops, and dedicated mentors. This year we are excited to announce an expanded role in the region by introducing six new Boston Earl Woods Scholars. They joined a growing group of more than 130 scholars around the country here in Boston, in Washington D.C., in New York and California. 
Today we invited one of our Boston scholars, Nina Nieves, to share with us how the Tiger Woods Foundation has impacted her life. She is an incredible example of why the support of the Deutsche Bank Championship is so critical. She makes us proud, and we're honored to have her here today. Please welcome Nina Nieves. 
ANDREINA NIEVES: Good afternoon. My name is Andreina Nieves Crispin, and I'm an Earl Woods Scholar. This upcoming fall I'll be a junior at Syracuse University. I'm majoring in public health and sociology. It is an honor to be here today, sharing my story and sharing how my life has changed in the frame of three years. Through ups and downs, the Tiger Woods Foundation has changed my life. It has been my support system, and most importantly it has been my family. 
I was born and raised in the Dominican Republic and moved to Boston when I was 13 years old with my sister and my mom. I was placed in a middle school where everybody but me spoke English. Without knowing the language, I was faced with two choices. I could have chosen to learn as time progressed or dedicated every single second of my time to learning. I chose the latter. I began studying during lunch period with my English professor, Ms.Leggert. Within six months of spending my lunchtime with her, I improved so much, I no longer felt insecure of my accent or my English. 
I attended the John D. O'Bryant School of Math & Science in Roxbury. High school to me was a great time. I loved my friends, my teachers. I was captain of the cheerleading team and several clubs, and my grades were good. My family life was complicated, but that was the norm for me. It became more complicated with the passing of my grandmother to Alzheimer's disease. When it came time to apply to colleges, this loss made me feel lonelier than I've ever been. The people I could ask about college were my older sister Geraldine and my guidance counselor. But as a first‑generation college student herself, my sister only had so much advice to give me, and my guidance counselor had another 120 kids to advise. 
Among the pile of scholarship applications my counselor gave me was the Earl Woods Scholarship. When I took a look, I thought there was no way a girl like me could get it, but I applied anyways. By that time I had already received all my acceptance letters, but the only school I was seriously considering was Syracuse University. 
The only problem was that my family could barely afford it. When I got the phone call that I had received the scholarship, I knew the Foundation would change my life in more ways than by simply giving me the opportunity to attend my dream school. 
As soon as I became an Earl Woods Scholar, I gained a family. I gained mentors and a support system. My fellow scholars are like siblings to me. When we see each other, it's like we've known each other our whole life. The staff at the Foundation treats this program and its scholars as if we are their extended family. From Denise calling me to check in and telling me she misses me and hopes I'm doing well, to Michelle and Christina doing random checkups, they've become so close to me that they call me Nina, just like my family does. 
Because of the scholarship, I also gained a mentor in Tony. Within the short amount of time I've known him, he has become someone I can count on, someone who loves brunch as much as I do, and although he is busy, I know he has my back. To be honest, without the scholarship program, I would probably be at some other school. My life wouldn't be the same. I would have never met the wonderful people I have encountered. I wouldn't be part of clubs or any community service initiatives that I'm part of at Syracuse University. I wouldn't have been able to join my sorority or had internships at places like Berklee College of Music and my current internship with the Boston Red Sox. I will never be able to pay back the Foundation, but when they asked me to give the speech, I said yes without hesitation. 
They have continued to mold me into the young professional I am today because of the support, the workshops and the mock interviews they've had with me. I truly feel prepared to take on the world once I graduate from Syracuse University. Thank you to the Tiger Woods Foundation and to the amazing staff that continues to support me on a daily basis. They have taught me to keep fighting for my dream and to never give up because there is always someone backstage who believes in you, even if you don't know it. Thank you. 
MIKE ANTOLINI: Thanks, Nina. Nina represents the type of students we're hoping to reach through the foundation, and we're proud of you, Nina, and your fellow Boston Scholars. 
Our next guest has a deep connection with the Deutsche Bank Championship. He's won the event in 2006, and he's served as the founder of the Tiger Woods Foundation. Please welcome, live via satellite, Tiger Woods. 
TIGER WOODS: I'm here. 
MIKE ANTOLINI: Thanks for joining us today. 
TIGER WOODS: Thanks, Mike. It's great to be here. I just want to start off by saying that the Deutsche Bank event has been near and dear to our hearts. It dates back 13 years now, starts back with my father and Seth Waugh getting involved and creating this idea of this event in the Boston area, and lo and behold, here we are 13 years later with 131 Earl Woods Scholars and a person like Nina and five others now this year have been added, too, so a grand total of 10 in the Boston area that now are going to college. Without the support of Deutsche Bank and EMC, this event would not have been elevated to the level it's at, now being part of the Playoffs with the top 100 players in the FedExCup race involved. It's been incredible to see. The support we've gotten from Norton and the entire Boston region, you know, as we all know, Boston is a huge sporting nut town, and to have all the fans come out and support this event over the years has been incredible. To have won it once, been in contention a bunch of times, unfortunately only got it done once, but the crowds have been fantastic, and their support and their understanding over the years of what we're trying to do with the Tiger Woods Foundation and how we're trying to inspire and help kids gain access to college. What they don't understand, I think that people don't realize is that we have now 131 Earl Woods Scholars in the program, but each and every one of them have a mentor. So when they go off to college, not only are we providing them with the financial aid but more importantly we are providing them with a mentor, and they're never alone, and to have access to a person 24/7 is so vital. 
I remember going to college at Stanford, and I had a person in the business department, he has now passed, but I had an opportunity to talk to him each and every day if I wanted to. He was always there, and even though I was away from home, he became basically like my surrogate father, and so I was always felt that I was never alone in college. A lot of these kids are now first‑generation students who are going to college, and for them to have a mentor who's been there, done that, and has been successful in life, to have an opportunity to be able to tap into that knowledge is vital. 
But we wouldn't have these opportunities for these students like Nina and the rest of the Earl Woods Scholars to go to college without the support of Deutsche Bank and all of the volunteers that come out, the Blue Crew and all the fans that come out and support our event. It's been fantastic. Last year alone we raised $2.2 million, and all of it has gone to the Earl Woods Scholars, local charities and grants, and so the impact of this event has been far reaching I think than people might think, and it would be fantastic if I could get off my butt and get in the top 100 and play in the event. 
MIKE ANTOLINI: Thanks, Tiger. We'll now begin the Q&A. There's a lot of members of the media in the room and we'd ask the questions only come from media. 

Q. We're getting towards the end of the season and you're pretty far down the list on the FedExCup point list. I know you want to play in this event. Can you talk about what your schedule is going to be the next couple of weeks and what you think you need to do to get in the Top 125, to get in the Barclays and eventually the top 100 to get in Deutsche Bank?
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, just win. It's not real complicated. I'm not playing Reno this week or Bridgestone, which is kind of interesting because I've won Bridgestone, what, eight times and I'm not eligible. I didn't qualify. You get into those big events by winning golf tournaments. Fortunately enough I've won the PGA a few times and I'm going to be able to play in that event. 
By playing well in the PGA, that determines whether or not I'll play Wyndham, and obviously the rest of the FedExCup Playoffs. 

Q. And this past weekend, Tiger, the first two rounds that you had, you found something; what did you find in the first two rounds that was maybe missing the previous couple weeks when you struggled? 
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, you know what, it's just a process. I'm starting to put this all together, and it's taking some time. I'm starting to get the feel for what Chris and I are implementing. I'm starting to get the understanding of how to hit those shots in tournament situations. Hey, we can all be Ranger Rick and hit golf good shots on the range, but to carry it to the golf course and a golf tournament is another story, and I'm finally able to start doing that now. I know I struggled on Saturday, but I think the one thing that's been missing in my game is I've been able to have stretches where I've hit it really well, but the stretches where I haven't hit it well, I haven't been able to score. And I slapped it all over the place on Saturday for the first seven holes. I hit it in places that you needed some kind of GPS beacon to find my golf ball. But I was somehow able to shoot even par through those seven holes and scramble and score, and it's something that's been missing in my game. But now I got to the 8th hole, hit it in the middle of the fairway and had an opportunity to make birdie there and turn it around and get to 9‑under par, that would have put me five back of the lead and get things rolling. Even though I didn't pull it off, but the fact that I was able to pull it off the first seven holes gives me a ton of confidence, hence I went out there on Sunday and I was 5‑under through 10, missed a little shorty at 11, made a mistake at 12 but got it back and birdied 16. Ended up shooting 3‑under par. There were a lot of positives last week, and just need to keep building and keep progressing. 
We look at it, Chris and I, and the guys I've been working with, we look at it more as not just a week to week thing. We're trying to build something for the future. I know that people are looking at it for the season, for a major championship. I'm looking at it more as in years. So coming off a back surgery last year to get in this position where I'm finally starting to put my game together, it feels really good. 

Q. Tiger, when you're going through a stretch where maybe you're not playing the kind of golf you're hoping to play and things are being said and written about the state of your game, how do you kind of go about ignoring that, or if you don't ignore it, do you use it to maybe kind of fuel trying to play better? 
TIGER WOODS: I don't read anything on the internet that relates to me, so that part is easy. It's doing the‑‑ obviously the post‑round interviews after every round and the media asking me questions about hitting the shot over here, hitting that shot over there. Hey, guys, that's what happens. You make changes in the game, and we all go through stretches like this. Unfortunately mine is probably more viewed nowadays than it used to be. Don't forget when I first made these changes back in '97 through '98 and didn't click in until '99, we didn't have cameras designated from when you arrived at the golf course and every shot I hit throughout the entire round. We didn't have a Tiger Tracker where everything is Tweeted up there about every shot I hit and where it's placed. Trust me, I hit some shots and I went through some rounds where it was really bad, but nothing was reported. 
So this is a different day and age, and things are scrutinized a little bit differently than when I went through some certain parts of my career, but that is the day and age we live in. 

Q. Do you love golf as much as you always did, or have there been some times where you've fallen out of love with the game because of the struggles that you've had?
TIGER WOODS: No, I love, I love playing the game of golf. I love practicing, and more importantly, I love competing. It doesn't feel very good when I can't compete at the highest level because of some of the physical injuries that I've had over the years and the surgeries that I've had to endure and the rehab process I've had to do throughout my‑‑ now my 20 years out on TOUR. That part has not been fun. But getting out there and practicing and trying to improve and eventually getting out there and playing against the best players in the world, there's no better feeling as an athlete to compete against the best, and to me that's‑‑ it's fun. I'm telling you, it is a rush to go on that first tee and knowing that I've got 155 other guys I need to beat, and over the course of my career, I've been able to beat some of them, but I just love preparing and getting out there and testing my skill. 

Q. If not as a player, would you plan to make an appearance up here tournament week? 
TIGER WOODS: Absolutely. I'll be there. I have my normal duties as tournament host, and my foundation runs the event, so it'll be very similar to some of the years that I've been injured for the Quicken Loans, that I've been injured for the World Challenge, the Hero World Challenge, or I've been injured for the Deutsche Bank last year. I was still there and supporting the event and doing anything I possibly can to make the event better from a different side, not from the player's side and competing, but from a different aspect. 

Q. Following up on Mike's question, it seems like over the last year everybody has been offering you unsolicited advice. Can you share a story or two of some unsolicited advice that may have been kind of amusing to you from your perspective?
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I've had a lot. I think that just like a body part, everyone has an opinion (laughing), so I've had a lot of people just say, basically, hey, quit and retire, you suck; to all you need to do is swing slower; to all you have to do is just make more putts. I've had people at restaurants say, hey, all you need to do is just eat a little bit better and you'll feel better, and that'll make you play better. I'm like, okay, great, I'm having fish and broccoli; how much better does it get than this? 
I've had a lot of interesting advice over the years, and it's not just through this period of my career but also some other lean periods of my career that I've had. But I understand the process. I've gone through it, and I'm working my way through it. 

Q. Tiger, you've talked about how your game is a process, got to go through the pattern, you feel your game is trending in the right direction. Do you feel yourself being close to winning and just telling the media and the public, I told you so? 
TIGER WOODS: I feel I'm very close. It's just a matter of getting those bad stretches and turning them around. Like I was alluding to on Saturday, to slap it all over the place like that and then score is something that I've been missing. If you look at my career, I've never been a person who's hit a bunch of fairways. I've kind of missed it all over the place, but I've been able to score, and scoring comes down to creativity, also comes down to missing the golf ball in the correct spots to give myself the correct angles, to be able to make certain chips, bury those putts. These are little things that go into scoring and it's something that I was missing at the beginning of the year because I was changing my pattern, so hence my short game was off, and I wasn't able to miss the ball in the correct spots, give myself the right angles. Let's say if I miss the fairway, yes, no big deal, if I miss it on the correct side in which I have a gap to play through. That's something that I've always been able to do. 
Through the periods of my career where I've struggled and I haven't been able to win golf tournaments, I've gone through those stretches where I've turned it around and I've been able to miss the ball in the right spots. This is not a game about being perfect, it's about giving yourself the best opportunity and playing the percentages. So just hanging in there, putting the ball in the correct spots, making those key crucial up‑and‑downs, it can turn a round completely around, and instead of end up shooting something that is ugly like 73, 74, 75, you turn it into a 70 or a 69, and you run the rest of the three days and you win the golf tournament. 
I think what you saw with Troy this week when he won is that he didn't go low basically three of the four days. He was just hanging in there, hanging in there, hanging in there, got on a hot stretch. I'm sure if you ask him, the first couple days, he probably missed some shots, made a couple key up‑and‑downs, struggled a little bit, got hot, shot 10‑under on Saturday and put himself in there with a chance to win and played well on Sunday. He didn't play like that the first two days. He missed a few shots here and there but he hung around, hung around, and got hot still. 

Q. I'm wondering, have you decided yet whether you're going to play in Greensboro, and if not what factors might go into that decision? 
TIGER WOODS: What I was saying earlier is a lot of it is dependent on what I do with the PGA and whether or not I have a chance to make the Playoffs. I need to obviously play well at the PGA to get myself to move up in points and then give myself an opportunity to get into the Playoffs. Right now I'm so far off that I need to have a really high finish, and nothing higher than winning my fifth PGA would be nice. 

Q. You had mentioned that somebody had suggested you quit. Have you ever thought of quitting?
TIGER WOODS: Have I ever thought of quitting? No, not quitting the game of golf. There will come a point in time where I will retire. I'm not going to be out here forever. I'm not going to be one of those guys that plays at 70 years old and is one of those guys taking up a spot. If I still feel that I'm competitive and I can play at a high level and can win golf tournaments, yeah, I'll stay out here. But there comes a point in time in every athlete's career where you know that your best isn't good enough anymore, and I'm definitely not at that point yet. I'm not 40, and there are plenty of guys who have had enormous success in their 40s. Look what Vijay did not too long ago throughout his 40s. Starting in 2003 I believe he won nine times that year. He's won more times in his 40s than anybody else. What Sam Snead did throughout his 40s, that's something that I feel like I'm in good enough shape, I've kept myself athletic enough where I can compete at this level. I still have the club head speed and the ball speed to hit the ball out there and take care of the par‑5s, and that's something that is important going forward against these new young kids who hit the ball so far. 
When I first came out here, John Daly was the only person who average over 300 yards. I hit it 296, I believe, somewhere like in '97, '98, when I was really long. A big carry back then in those days was if you could carry the ball 280, you were huge. Now the number is 320. You see guys like Dustin and Bubba and Gary all can carry the ball 320 on call. I'm not quite at that level, but I know I can carry the ball over 300, so I can take care of some of the longer holes and once I got on a little bit of a roll that I can play similar golf to what I used to on just about any golf course. 

Q. You mentioned earlier talking about Ranger Rick and bringing your game from the range to the course. How do you combat the difficulties you've had going from the range and those starts that you've had getting behind the 8‑ball basically in a lot of tournaments? 
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, that's just‑‑ as I said, that's part of the process. That's part of getting it to where it feels comfortable from the word go. The warmup I had on Friday was not very good at all. I hit it all over the range, and I felt awful going out there on the golf course, and that was probably my best ball‑striking day. That is something that I'm very‑‑ that's kind of how I used to play and what I used to go through. There are periods where, yeah, you warm up great and go out there and hit it great. There are times where you warm up poorly and you still play well, and that's part of the scoring thing that I was alluding to earlier, missing the ball in the correct spots and getting those key up‑and‑downs here and there and turning rounds around, and that's something that has been missing in my game, and it's now finally starting to come back. 
If you look at my swing back even a few years ago to where I'm at now, it's at a polar 180, so that takes a little bit of time, and throughout that process I had a back surgery in there. So that hasn't been a lot of fun. So it takes time to go through all that and to get my body into a position where not only can I practice but also engrain the pattern, and then once you engrain the pattern, now take it out on the golf course and see how it is and make adjustments from there. 

Q. Talking about just the concept of overexertion, you've been famous for working so hard and taking so many golf swings and yet you have the back pain and the back surgeries. Has there ever been a point where you've considered dialing it down because I'm sure you battled trying to get that repetition with the fact that your body needs rest?
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, you know what, as I have aged certainly I don't hit as many golf balls as I used to. I certainly don't go out there and hit 500 drivers like I have in the past in a day. Now it's, yeah, I'll hit more short shots and I'll engrain my pattern that way, and what's more important is that now that I'm healthy enough to play soccer all day with my kids. That's been a lot of fun, so I don't have to run the miles like I used to. I don't have to run 30 miles a week like I did early in my career. I'll let the kids do that and I'll just help them with drills, and I'll play and teach them how to do certain things. So I'm going to become more of a delegator than a guy that's actually going out there and running all those miles like I used to.
MIKE ANTOLINI: Thank you, Tiger. Appreciate you joining us. We'll look forward to seeing you soon. That concludes today's program. We look forward‑‑ for those of you who are playing golf, the range is open. I know there's delicious food here at TPC Boston, and we look forward to seeing all of you out here in just 28 short days for the 2015 Deutsche Bank Championship. Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT