BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 19, 2016
John Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Connecticut - 0, Boston College - 30
Q. John what did it mean to you to play your final home?
JOHN JOHNSON: It was unbelievable.  Time flew by.  It was great to go out on a win, and wearing No. 31, it meant so much to me.  You know, Justin Simmons wore it last year, and I respect the kid so much and I love his game so, anything I can do to be like him, honestly, it felt good to wear it.
Q. John, you were one of the first recruits under transition from Spaziani to Addazio and you've been here from the Bowl games to last year.  How does it feel having won this last home game of the year, making plays all over the field and having the crowd really get into this game?
JOHN JOHNSON: Oh, it means a lot.  When Coach Addazio first got here, got off to a great start and as you say, last year was a little different.
So I think just leaving a legacy behind and getting back to a Bowl game, it would mean a lot to the program, to elevate the program to where it needs to be.
Q. Talk about the pressure -- were they just interrelated?
JOHN JOHNSON: Oh, absolutely.  The quarterback was young; we knew that coming into the game.  So we had to get good pressure on him, alter his reads, slow him down a little bit and like you said, the pressure caused him to release it early and we just took advantage of it.
Q. The receiver, Thomas, he's one of the top physical receivers of the game you and pretty much shut him down.  He's been a very dynamic wide receiver.
JOHN JOHNSON: We just had to stay true to our technique to be honest.  He's a great receiver, don't get me wrong, but when you apply your technique you practice every day in practice, it can slow a guy like that down.  He was probably like, I wouldn't say the only threat but he was the biggest threat and we took him out of the game.  We knew it would be easy from there.
Q. Around the second quarter, you guys were figuring out his timing routes, you were jumping on routes.  What were you doing where all of a sudden you were in his head figuring out what he was going to do before he did it?
JOHN JOHNSON: I think we can credit that to preparation during the week.  Like I say, he was a young quarterback and they didn't want to give him too much to work with.  He only had a certain amount of concepts to work with.
So once we recognize formations and splits, we can jump on the routes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT