BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 1, 2016
Patrick Towles
John Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Boston College - 35, Buffalo - 3
Q. Patrick, how much more fun is it to throw the ball, getting out there even on a day like this?
PATRICK TOWLES: It's great.  Winning is fun.  I don't care if we run for 300 or throw for 300.  As long as we've got more points end of the game, we'll be fine, but I do like to throw the ball.  But I think today we got some looks, some good play action stuff and got the ball to Jeff in space, so it was really good.
Q. Patrick, when we talked before about the importance of this game, getting to 3-2, now that you're at 3-2 and approaching conference play, sort of where you feel like everything stands and how much improvement have you been able to make going in?
PATRICK TOWLES: Yeah, I think we've come a long way.  I think it was important for us to come out and play great today.  We had two awesome days of practice, two probably of the best practice days we've had since I've been here.  Two great days of practice, and I think it really showed today.  Our defense obviously dominated like they usually do, and we can't take that for granted, but they played awesome.  Just a really, really good team effort.  All three phases played good today.
Q. Patrick, you mentioned your fearlessness with making passes.  On that one touchdown throw to Michael Walker you just snuck it over the linebacker.  Take us through that play and talk about your fearlessness when you're throwing the ball.
PATRICK TOWLES: Yeah, we talk all the time, that's supposed to go high, high in the back of the end zone.  As soon as I threw it, I didn't know if it was going to get over the top of his fingers.  I'm obviously extremely thankful that it did, but Mikey ran a good route and it was a great call by coach Loeffler.
Q. John, just talk about all the negative plays the defense was able to get, looked like about eight?
JOHN JOHNSON: We just had to play fast and play physical.  Like Patrick said, we had a great week of practice, and we saw most of the plays that they ran at practice, so we were on top of them.
Q. How interested will you be in watching Clemson tonight?
JOHN JOHNSON: It'll be very interesting, especially because of their opponent.  We get to watch both of them, and great talent on great talent.  It should be fun to watch, and I think we'll all be cued into it.
PATRICK TOWLES: Yeah, I think it's safe to say our whole team will be watching it.  I know they roll in here on Friday, but like he said, we play both those teams.  I've played that red team four times, so excited to watch hopefully a pretty good football game tonight.
Q. Patrick, just talk about that good play Garrison made coming back to the ball, and does that remind you how tough this game is?
PATRICK TOWLES: Oh, I mean, it's huge.  It's obviously not what we want, but made a really, really good play, and we talked all week that I wasn't going to try to overthrow him with those big guys and let him go up and make a play.  Now I kind of wish I overthrew him a little bit.
It's football.  That kind of stuff happens.  But you move on, you talk to him and make sure he's doing well, but he made a great play that I'm not confident anybody else on our team can make.  Hearts are with him, and we'll be good moving forward.
Q. Is this game with Clemson one you've actually been circling looking up to because it can help not only your team but your draft status?
JOHN JOHNSON: Oh, I just think this game will fall in the hands of the DB's.  I honestly think that.  I think we're going to be in a storm with them, we're going to be in a deep fight with them, and I think -- I'm not worried too much about my draft status.  Of course I want to play a good game every game, but I think the game is going to come down to the DB's, so we've got to have another great week of practice and stay on top of them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT