RCA TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 16, 1996
Bohdan Ulihrach
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Corretja broke you very early in the match and then after that it seemed like you were on top of it the rest of the way.  Is that how you saw it?

BOHDAN ULIHRACH:  He broke me second game of the first set and -- but I was a little bit lucky, important thing was that we play more always on his serve, so I hope that it was -- it was question of time when I broke him back.


Q. What do you attribute your success this week to consider your lack of recent play on hard court?

BOHDAN ULIHRACH:  Yeah, I am successful here because I didn't believe that I could play on hard court and I didn't trust, so a lot of people say you have to try, you have to play because the biggest points and biggest money are in states so you have to play some tournaments in states on hard court.  I  also like this tournament because I heard it is one of the most beautiful tournaments in the world.


Q. You really previously weren't interested in hard court play at all?

BOHDAN ULIHRACH:  I didn't like it before too much because, you know, second day always after the game you are more tired than on the clay.  It is different because you cannot slip on hard court.


Q. Is your mine changing over the past few days?

BOHDAN ULIHRACH:  Yeah, changing already, changing.


Q. What was it like playing on stadium court?

BOHDAN ULIHRACH:  It is nice stadium, but I think there was not so many people, it is nice.


Q. You haven't dropped a set-all week.  Can you remember a week that has gone as smooth for you or when the last time that would be?

BOHDAN ULIHRACH:  Last time I think it was in Bologna when I didn't lose set at semifinals, but it was also because I always played against players which are a lower ranking than me except Corretja, but I think he was a little bit tired because he played all matches in three sets set so --


Q. What about playing Sampras in the next round?

BOHDAN ULIHRACH:  I think he will win, so I play against him already once in Dusseldorf this year, but it was on clay and it was this first tournament, first clay tournament  since Davis Cup in Moscow, I think, I remember it was two weeks after his coach died, so I won, but it will be a big difference here because he is at home.  People will be behind him, but I try to do my best.


Q. Can you draw anything even given those circumstances, though, it's got to give you a little extra boost knowing that you did beat him regardless of surface?

BOHDAN ULIHRACH:  I try to, I don't know, it will be tough.


Q. You started out the year, it was kind of tough.  It seems like you have been improving as the year has gone on. Can you talk about your progression, more recently during this year as opposed to early in the year?

BOHDAN ULIHRACH:  Not so good start this year because I didn't believe that I could play on hard courts and on indoor, but I have already won indoor.  I beat Boris Becker in Milan, but, you know, I have to play in these events indoors and outdoor hard courts in the states because they are the biggest points.


Q. If and when you play Pete Sampras again, what has to work for you in the match for you to have a shot against him, serve well or return his serve?  What worries you the most about playing him?

BOHDAN ULIHRACH:  He has, for sure, the best serve in the game, serve and volley, so -- and he is No. 1, so I can  only surprise.


Q. Is that a part of your game that you have confidence in, though?

BOHDAN ULIHRACH:  A little bit.


Q. What part of your game do you have the most confidence in?

BOHDAN ULIHRACH:  I think I improve a lot during the season, I improve serve, but best part of my game is playing from baseline.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT