TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: STANFORD v OKLAHOMA STATE
December 29, 2011
Jason Tarver
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell me about Justin Blackmon and how he compares to some of the great receivers that you faced this year, Keenan Allen, Robert Woods? 
JASON TARVER:   One, he can run fast for many plays in a row.   He can really go and he plays with power and speed.   An advantage for us is we played similar receivers, the young man from Cal, explosive with good hands, probably not quite as strong as Justin.   The guys from SC are great route runners, quick in and out of breaks.   Justin is a combination of all of them.
And then the timing with the quarterback, they work together so well.

Q.   I have heard some teams like Oklahoma, when Justin Blackmon would run for a pass, he was totally blanketed by some of these that have devoted so much coverage to him they left holes elsewhere.   Is that something you have to be wary of? 
JASON TARVER:   The biggest thing you have to do, they know who they are, which is a powerful thing in college football.   They know who they are, meaning in their offense, if you line up and let them run, they'll run.   If you line up and put one‑on‑one on them, they will throw it to you.   You have to mix and execute your calls. 
So sometimes there will be two on him, sometimes one on him.   And Derek and I will talk about it.   You have to change it.   If you give them the same look all the time, him and Brandon and Coach Gundy, they will figure it out.   They are very good at that.   You will see them make adjustments during the game.

Q.   How hard is your job sometimes to recruit knowing the academic standard that you have at that school?
JASON TARVER:   Well, what's great about our student‑athletes, and a bunch of them are in the room and hopefully you have an opportunity to talk to them‑‑ wait until you meet these kids.   They are unbelievable.   Some of them have businesses while they are at Stanford.   They are some of the most intelligent people and great people to work with in the world.   And they are going to be our world leaders as they go out of here.   A lot of our defensive guys are engineers and you name it.
So to answer the question, how hard is it, well, a lot of times there is the greats, and that is one of our markers.   But what you end up with is a whole bunch of great young men that you are very excited to work for in the future. 
So is the pool as big?   Maybe not.   But what's great is when you go out and find them and they want to come in, you have so much fun being around those guys.
That's one of the reasons why I picked Stanford as a place to coach, it is because of the great student‑athletes.

Q.   How hard was it to recruit a guy like Andrew Luck?
JASON TARVER:   Andrew was almost‑‑ I wasn't at Stanford at the time, but Andrew was almost if not valedictorian of his high school.   A lot of student‑athletes that are up there, if we have valedictorians, and hopefully a few more coming in this year, you look for them and you obviously want football first, but the whole student‑athlete is what we are looking for.   We have defensive valedictorians as well.

Q.   You lost one of your assistant coaches this year with Chester McGlockton's passing.   How much did he mean to the program?   Will there be a tribute on the players'‑‑ at this game to him? 
JASON TARVER:   I will answer twofold.   First, Chester was an integral part of our staff on defense.   Our coaching staff, we do everything together.   You will hear Coach Mason and I finish sentences for each other.   You have been around us, you know.   We do everything together. 
Chester is an integral part of that.   Obviously with his expertise of the front playing D line, making‑‑ Chester did a good job and was continuing to learn and becoming a really good coach of making the complexity simple, and Chester was incredibly intelligent himself. 
We will miss him, and the guys are very excited to put on display in this game some of the things that Chester taught them. 

Q.   What about a tribute to him?   Will there be anything like that? 
JASON TARVER:   The helmet emblem is the first thing.   There is a CMG.

Q.   On the helmet? 
JASON TARVER:   Yeah.   And I don't know what else will go on with the uniforms.   I'm sure the players will have some things.

Q.   Some people think that Stanford is going to fall off the football map next year after Andrew leaves and a lot of other guys leave.   What's your response to that?   It sounds to me like you have an amazing defense next year, especially if Chase comes back. 
JASON TARVER:   Yeah.   You got to pick up the baton and run with it.   What these guys have done, what this class, fifth‑year seniors, four‑year guys, Masifilo, Delano Howell, and then you can go into the defensive guys of Luck, DeCastro, etcetera, down the list to our young corps is establish a work ethic is what is expected, the physical nature of this football team. 
That's what the guys that are still here are going to continue.   So that's why I'm excited about it.   The defense, we need to put our identity on display in this game, and we will continue that. 
We have a lot of returning guys that have been trained to do that.   That's also what you ask.   That's what we are pressing our young student‑athletes to do right now as well, is not falling off.   What these guys started, you are not allowed to let it fall off.   You can't let them down. 

Q.   It sounds like your defense could be even better next year. 
JASON TARVER:   We will get Skov back.   He is doing great.

Q.   Wayne Lyons, guys like that?
JASON TARVER:   We are excited about Wayne.   Loves football.   Working hard right now.   Very excited about those guys.   A lot of young safeties we are excited about. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT