ROLAND GARROS
May 30, 2014
Taylor Townsend
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. SUAREZ NAVARRO/T. Townsend
      6‑2, 6‑2

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   How would you reflect on your week in Paris?
    TAYLOR TOWNSEND:   I think it was an amazing week.   I couldn't have asked for anything better.   Well, a win would have been better. 
    But I really learned a lot this week.   I'm so happy and so fortunate that I had this opportunity, and I earned this opportunity.
    I'm just looking to go to the next tournament, learn from my mistakes here.   And I'm excited to get on the grass.

Q.   Could you talk about just over the past months, over the past year or so, how your game has improved.   You seem to have really stepped up. 
    TAYLOR TOWNSEND:   Well, I have just been working a lot on my mental game.   I haven't changed much in my game at all. 
    I have just really learned how to play the game.   I have become more of a student of the game, and my coaches have really helped me understand about the game of tennis.
    Having Zina in my corner really has helped me a lot, because she has played and done all of this.   So it's a lot easier for me to kind of listen and grasp it, because she's done this.
    I mean, I'm just learning how to be a student of the game and learning how to play and embracing my strengths and trying to strengthen my weaknesses.

Q.   If you could say the one thing mentally that you had learned, what would that be?
    TAYLOR TOWNSEND:   Just to trust myself and believe in myself.   I have a lot of weapons, and I have a lot of gifts and talents that not many people have, that I have to believe in.
    Just trust it, because, I mean, that's going to separate me from a lot of different people. 

Q.   First Grand Slam main draw of your life.   Sum it up for us.   Most fun you've ever had?   Give us something about it. 
    TAYLOR TOWNSEND:   Yeah, it's the most fun I've had (smiling). 
    I have had a really good time just embracing the moments and, you know, the pressure and everything.   It's awesome.   I really had a great time and experiencing this.   And, I mean, I couldn't asked for a better first Grand Slam and a better opportunity to show the world what I can do.
    So, I mean, I have had a great time and I'm really looking forward to the next couple of tournaments.

Q.   Was embracing those moments, as you mentioned, was the objective you said before coming here?   Or was there some other objective like reaching third round, for example?
    TAYLOR TOWNSEND:   Yeah, that was basically it.   I mean, I just wanted to come over here and ‑‑well, first of all, I earned the right or the opportunity to be here.   So I was really feeling good about my game and feeling good about what I was doing. 
    Yeah, I mean, I just wanted to continue to improve and going from the matches that I won to get here and just continue to improve on those and just trust what I had been doing, trust the work that I had been putting in, and just do it.
    I mean, I knew that I could do it.   It's just, you know, having the opportunity and just trusting it and taking advantage of it when it came.

Q.   You played a very good clay‑court player today and she played very well for the first four or five games.   What were you thinking?   I mean, because you're so new to it all.   She's kind of blitzing you.   Were you panicking or feeling pressure?   What were you telling yourself?
    TAYLOR TOWNSEND:   Well, I mean, I was nervous, yeah.   Just everything has been so new for me over the past couple of days.
    But I still was trying to really slow down and continue to work on the same things that I have been doing in practice and in the past couple of matches.
    I mean, I was just trying to focus in on that.   But there were a lot of other things that were going through my head.   I was just trying to keep calm. 
    She was playing very, very well in the first.   She came out really playing well, playing strong. So that kind of put me on the ropes, as well. 
    I was just trying to bounce back from that, making sure I fought every point and had a fighter's mentality.   I knew it was going to be a battle.
    I just was trying to fight and, you know, get out of it.

Q.   Even some of the French fans were chanting your name.   Did you hear that?   What do you think about that?   What's it like being on a bigger stage like that?
    TAYLOR TOWNSEND:   Well, it's nice now that people are cheering my name, because they were cheering the other girl's name (laughter).
    It was nice to have that support, especially here.   The people are so supportive, and I really have had a great time playing in front of them. 
    I did realize that I do like big stages, I like big courts, I like playing in front of a lot of people, so that's good.
    But I really enjoyed it.   I'm really glad the people embraced me and were cheering for me today.

Q.   You mentioned a few times this week about how you learned to believe in yourself and your talents and whatever.   Had you gone through a period where you were doubting that a little bit or wondering whether you turned pro too soon?   You seem very into that point. 
    TAYLOR TOWNSEND:   Well, I wouldn't say I was doubting I was turning pro too early.   I mean, I think I did it at the perfect time.
    But like anything, going from one level to the next is not an easy task at all.   There are a lot of things I had to learn.   There are a lot of things I had to learn about myself.   There were a lot of things I had to learn about the game that I didn't know and that I wouldn't have known, just because I hadn't been playing pro tournaments and I hadn't been on the tour and I hadn't played against people like this and on this level.
    So it was new.   But there was a point in time ‑‑I mean, I just really had to kind of learn about my game and how to work it and how to use it and play on this level, because it's totally different than juniors.   So I think that that was ‑‑not so much doubting myself, but just believing in what I could do and that I can compete on this level.

Q.   Second set was 2‑1, you had a break point to go to 3‑1 and you hit a forehand, hooked it a little bit wide.   How big was that point or do you think maybe the whole match was too much today in terms of how she was playing?
    TAYLOR TOWNSEND:   That was definitely a big point.   That game was huge.   I think that that was the turning point.   And if I would have won that game I think that would have given me a lot more momentum in the second, because I would have been serving at 3‑1, also had break point at 1‑0. 
    So I think that that game was huge, and I knew that the game was huge.   Unfortunately, I missed my return, but the good thing is that I realized how big those points were.   I know that next time if I get the opportunity, I know what I have to do to make the adjustment so that I can capitalize on it.

Q.   Tennis is a game with a lot of pressure early in people's career, mid career, late career.   You've obviously had an incredible breakout here.   The question is sort of, is she for real?   What is your feeling?   Are you sort of, do you, in your gut, do you feel that you're ready to make a real run here and that you'll get far?   Talk about that and your future, please. 
    TAYLOR TOWNSEND:   That's funny.   Yeah, I'm sorry (smiling). 
    I do.   I mean, honestly, I wouldn't be here if I didn't feel in my gut, in my heart, that I could do this.   I wouldn't have turned pro if I didn't feel that way.
    I mean, this is a far trip.   It's very expensive.   It's far away from home.   My phone doesn't work (laughter).
    There are a lot of things that, you know, I miss about home that I could be doing.   But I would rather be here grinding and playing and going through these ups and downs on the court.
    So, no, I believe 100% in myself that I can do great things.   But it's a matter of time.   I have to trust the process, trust the work that I'm doing and understand that it is a long process, and, you know, it doesn't happen overnight. 
    But I see that, being here, I believe in myself and that I can compete on this level and I can do it and I want to do it, you know.   I mean, I want to see how far I can go.
    So I'm excited, and I do think that I can do it.   Just keeping looking out (smiling). 

Q.   You may well be in the running for a wildcard at Wimbledon, I imagine, after this.   How big a deal would that be for you if you were to receive one?   And if not, what are your hopes for qualifying and everything?
    TAYLOR TOWNSEND:   If I got a wildcard into Wimbledon, I would pass out right now (laughter). Honestly, that would make my day.   Wow. 
    Wimbledon is like my favorite tournament, I swear, I love the grass.   I just love the tournament, the atmosphere.   That would mean the world to me if I got a wildcard just because I just love the tournament so much.   I love grass.   I have done well in the juniors there. 
    So I just love the atmosphere.   That would ‑‑oh, my God, I'll probably cry.   I'm not a crier, either.   So that means a lot. 

Q.   I'm pretty sure you noticed it, but there is some kind of increasing media attention around you.   I bet it's kind of new for you, as well.   How do you cope with all that?
    TAYLOR TOWNSEND:   Well, I like it.   I'm like a bubbly person, I like to talk to people.
    This kind of stuff is easy for me, it's like having a normal conversation with any of you guys.   It's fun. 
    You know, the one thing I would have to say that's tough is finding a way to manage it all.   That's new, and that's what I have my coaches here and my agent here for, to help me facilitate that for right now. 
    I'm having a good time and I really am enjoying it and getting myself out there and people seeing my dances and all that stuff (laughter).

Q.   A lot of times we see juniors who do really well and are successful, and then it doesn't translate when they come here.   Your class, you were the No. 1 junior, and then Genie Bouchard was right behind you and she won Wimbledon the year that you won a couple there.   Did you see it, and why do you think you and Genie have been able to come through?   Any thoughts on that?
    TAYLOR TOWNSEND:   Well, Genie, I can say, just from being around her, she's very mentally tough.   She has a fight and a belief in herself, and she knows that she can do whatever she puts her mind to do.   The same with me. 
    I mean, she had a great year in the juniors, and after she won Wimbledon I really literally saw her pro career take off.   She really started believing in herself.
    For me, it was just a little bit different.   Our games are different, so it's easier for her to develop a little bit faster.   I mean, I have different things, I have a lot of different elements I have to work in my game. 
    But for the most part, I mean, I think that it's nice to see her out here and play with her in the doubles on the pro circuit.   You know, we're like, We have to keep our run going from Junior Wimbledon in 2012.   We have a lot of fun together. 
    But I think that it really just comes down to the belief in yourself and the fact that you know that you can do it.   You did it in the juniors and you were top there.   That's where you start.   So it's just a building block.

Q.   Your style is so refreshing and risky.   Do you think you'll be able to keep that up or will you become just another power tennis player if you want to succeed?
    TAYLOR TOWNSEND:   No, I won't (pointing to him).   (Laughter.)
    No, I won't do that.   That's a part of my game, but my game and how it's designed and how I have been playing, I have been at the net, the net is normal for me.   I have started ‑‑when I started playing tennis, I was doing volleys. 
    And it just so natural for me, and I know that that makes my game special.   So I'm definitely not going to take that away, because there are a lot of people who can hit the ball very hard all day long.
    If you want to make it to the top, there has to be something that separates you from all the people who can do the same thing.   That's what makes me different.   I'm embracing that, and I love it.   I just have to keep working on it and honing in on that. 

Q.   Can you tell us something about your background?   What tennis means for you in your life?   How difficult maybe was it to get to this level where you are now and how good it is to be here now?
    TAYLOR TOWNSEND:   Yeah.   Tennis means the world to me.   I mean, it's helped me through a lot of situations, tough times, good times, bad times in my life.   But tennis has always kind of been my backboard.   That has really just been there.   I can just go play and spend hours on the court and do whatever.
    But, I mean, getting here, it's been a long road.   It's been a tough road.   But I have learned a lot about myself, and, I mean, as a person.   That's kind of translated on the court and learned about myself both as a person and a player.
    I really embrace that.   It means the world to me to be here, just the fact that I said that it feels different, that I earned the right to be here.   I earned the wildcard through my hard work and through my sweat and, you know, ups and downs in the matches.   And I was faced two match points down in the semifinals I had to win that match in order to get the wildcard. 
    Just tons of things going through my head there.   It's a different level.   But I had to do it.
    It means the world for me to be here, and to have this opportunity and capitalize on it, and I'm looking forward to it continuing in the future, and hopefully I can keep this going. 

Q.   You mentioned the expenses.   Just how expensive is it coming up from through the junior ranks?   What's it like when you actually begin to make money to help pay off that?
    TAYLOR TOWNSEND:   Well, it's tough.   I knew the pro circuit would be more expensive just because, you know, you have to travel.   I mean, tennis is an expensive sport.   You have to travel, you have to get racquets, you have equipment, you have a lot of things that you have to upkeep. 
    Well, also, you have to get to the tournaments, you have to get food.   There are just a lot of expenses that you have.
    That's been since we have been playing National Open, I know it's a different level, but it's still expensive for anybody.
    When I first started making money, I was like, Whoa, that's mine?   I was excited.   My mom was like, No, no, no, (laughter).
    But it was interesting, but, I mean, I'm really glad that I'm able to kind of learn about all of this stuff.   And also, with just being young and making my own money, it's like something you have to grasp, but at the same time, it's through my hard work.   So it's like, Taylor, you earned this. 
    Embrace it but at the same time be smart with it and understand that a lot of it is going back into your tennis, so you can continue to travel and do the things that you need to do to make it to where you want to go so I can make more money. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT