ROLAND GARROS
May 24, 2016
Taylor Townsend
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
T. TOWNSEND/A. Hesse   
6-2, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Must be feeling good.  Got the wildcard; made good on it.  
TAYLOR TOWNSEND: Yeah.   
 Q.  Tell us a little bit about it.  
TAYLOR TOWNSEND: Yeah, feels good.  It's been tough just with the weather.  I've never been here and it's been so rainy and wet and cool.  Usually we have some good days of weather, so with my match getting canceled yesterday it was kind of an adjustment playing so late today.   
Yeah, feels good just to be able to continue playing well and enjoying the clay.   
 Q.  You've got a lot of wins in the last, I don't know what it is, two months or so.  
TAYLOR TOWNSEND: (Laughter.)   
 Q.  It's a really good streak.  Must feel a lot more confident than you were a year ago at this time.  
TAYLOR TOWNSEND: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  Make a comparison for us.  
TAYLOR TOWNSEND: Yeah, definitely.  Like you said, the biggest thing is just matches.  You can practice all day, all night, but ultimately it just comes down being able to transfer what you practice onto the court and into the matches that you play.   
So I have a lot of confidence in myself and what I'm doing.  Being out on the court for so many matches I've established good routines and habits and found things that work for me, so it feels good.   
 Q.  I didn't see the match, but the scoreline said you were pretty on.  How did you feel out there?  Was the scoreline indicative of how were playing?  
TAYLOR TOWNSEND: Yeah.  I mean, she came out playing well.  She was really fired up.  Obviously she is a French player so she had a lot of support from the crowd.  I just tried to stay within myself.  I was a little nervous going out there, of course, but I just tried to really put a lot of balls in the court and just focus on what I was trying to do.   
After the first three, four games I got a break of serve, and that kind of helped me relax a little bit.  Then I was able to go for my shots a little bit more.  It was a good match.  We had some good points and stuff like that, but I think overall I was pretty, like you said, on today.   
 Q.  Maybe doesn't apply to you because you're fairly new to the tour, but when you walk around here does it feel like there are a lot of Americans?  There are 18 women in the draw here, and that's 15 or 20% of the whole tournament.  Do you have that feeling or does it feel like other slams you've been at?  
TAYLOR TOWNSEND: Yeah, I mean, definitely.  Just to know that there are all of these American girls and guys playing, it feels good.  We all are pretty familiar with each other, so when you're in a draw and you see who is playing and there are so many Americans, it is a good feeling.   
So, yeah, I definitely feel that way.  Also, I'm really happy to be a part of that whole group of really great players coming through the tour.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT