ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 25, 2013
Charlie Beljan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Solid open and start for you today.   I know 17's going to play tough for everybody, but to bounce back and take advantage of 18, it's a nice little 67 finish.   
CHARLIE BELJAN:   Yeah, it's a beautiful thing.   Normally the Thursday rounds are tough for me.   I always put myself behind the eight ball.   The last time I didn't do that was at Riviera when I had a nice first round.   So something to build on instead of worrying about making the cut.   I'm going out tomorrow and worrying about winning a golf tournament.   
Unfortunately, I hit a lady.   The first person I've ever hit since I've been out here, so I gave her a glove and signed the ball.   Made a good four.   Who knows where the ball would have been.   But, yeah, birdied 18, played a great round of golf, and looking forward to three more days.  
   
 Q.   Big hitter like yourself is this one of those days you're licking your chops because you know the course is going to play long for everybody?   
CHARLIE BELJAN:   Absolutely.   When it was raining yesterday, I just said keep on raining, no question.   Any time we can pick up the ball on the fairway or around the green, the scores are definitely going to be better.   You can tee up a lie, and it's easier.   
But it definitely it played much longer than the Monday Pro‑Am I played in.   I hope it rains again tonight and every other day the rest of the way.  
   
 Q.   I don't know if we can guarantee that.   But I can guarantee your game has been really sharp this year.   You mentioned Riviera.   Second time around seeing these golf courses.   What is your comfort level?   
CHARLIE BELJAN:   That was the nice thing about coming back here is I've seen this course.   I didn't get to see any of those courses in Florida last year.   I'm going to do the next seven weeks, and out of the seven weeks, I've seen at least three of them.   So that's nice.   
These guys that show up and have played it ten or 15 times, what an advantage.   For me to come out and not be a rookie and see a couple of them, yeah, I'm not trying to learn every single step of the way.   I'm just trying to go play golf now.  
   
 Q.   An opening round of 67.   Charlie, how important was it to get off to a good start, something you haven't been doing a whole bunch this year?   
CHARLIE BELJAN:   No, really since I got out on tour, Thursdays are a tough day for me.   I put myself behind the eight ball, and to now be ahead of the eight ball with three more days left, no pressure.   Just go out and play some golf, which is what I'm good at, instead of worrying about that dumb cut line.   
But it was a great day.   The conditions this morning are a little breezy, little misty.   I don't know what it was.   But to start 3‑under through 4.   Then there are a couple of nice stretches in here.   Like I said, the course is playing wet, playing long.   So pars aren't a bad thing out here.   But great round of golf, and I'm excited for three more.  
   
 Q.   What changed for you today that allowed you to get off to such a good start?   
CHARLIE BELJAN:   The game has been solid.   It's just more thinking my way around the golf course and not putting myself in bad positions off the tee.   Then, of course, making a few more putts, and that's what made a couple of nice par saves, made a couple good birdie putts and kept the momentum going.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT