NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 16, 2013
Charlie Beljan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Could you summarize your day?
CHARLIE BELJAN:   When I got the text last night, I my heart started pounding.   Two years ago I was playing the Gateway Tour and lucky enough last year to get on the PGA TOUR and to get a victory and to tee it up with Mr.Els and Mr.Mickelson and to have a day like I did is something that I'll never forget, had them both sign my advisor and I'll put it in a nice frame at home so I'll always have something to remember. 
It's a circus out there, that's for sure.   I don't know how he does it week‑in and week‑out.   I wish I could have had a few more putts drop but I've got a great chance tomorrow and look forward to it. 
I could have birdied every hole on the back nine realistically without stretching it for making more than a 15‑ or 20‑footer.   These greens are tough, especially poa annua in the afternoon, that's how it goes.   If you told me I was going to shoot 3‑under par or if I was going to shoot even par, I would have been thrilled to death.   I'm ecstatic, I'm happy, life's good. 

Q.   So when you asked Ernie and Phil to sign your advisor, I'm not sure they are asked that very often by their playing partners?
CHARLIE BELJAN:   They probably aren't, but hey, I'll ask, what's the worst they are going to tell me, is no?   But no, it was very kind for them both to do that, and appreciated it and yeah, they didn't have any issue. 

Q.   Is it more difficult to putt in the afternoons?
CHARLIE BELJAN:   No question.   They have gotten a little firmer.   The balls are not quite holding and they are getting a little crusty.   But this golf course, Riviera here, is spectacular.   I've learned to love it more and more each day that I've played it, and it's a special place.   There's a lot of history.   When I go to the bathroom in the different spots out there, they have got the pictures from 1933 and that, and I'm like, oh, my gosh.   No, this is a wonderful place.   I've already booked my spot for my bus for next year.   I can't wait to come back.   I'm fortunate to be here and fortunate to have an opportunity like I did today, and to go ahead and beat those boys is something, it's just one day of golf.   It was one great day. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT