AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 15, 2015
Charlie Beljan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You birdied the last three holes.   Talk about that.   
CHARLIE BELJAN:   It was a dream come true finish.   We stood back there.   We have been playing well all week.   
We started the week three over through three holes and we just put our head down and started making some birdies.   
And then we birdied the last three to get it to 15.   We said let's get two more and to birdie the last three was something special.   Especially here at Pebble Beach.  
   
 Q.   What a beautiful 6‑iron you hit into the 17th hole, 187 was our number.   
CHARLIE BELJAN:   I think we had 192.   Thursday we hit an 8‑iron to about a half an inch.   We couldn't believe it didn't go in.   
Then today we topped it off with hitting it to about six inches or a foot.   To do that on that hole with all that history and do that at Pebble Beach is really special.  
   
 Q.   You're projected to jump into the top 40 in FedExCup points?  
CHARLIE BELJAN:   Yeah, that's nice, seeing as we were 181 coming into the week.   But it was great.   
We made a couple swing changes three weeks ago.   We went to the claw putting grip, and things have really started to come around.   
Building some confidence and we're looking forward to Riviera.   That's been my course the last couple years and we're looking forward to heading down there now.   
   
 Q.   66 at Pebble, another great finish for you.   How good is it to get back in the mix in a final round?  
CHARLIE BELJAN:   Well it's been awhile.   And to do it here at Pebble Beach, we struggled here the last four years.   But we have been playing great.   
We were 3‑over through three holes on Thursday starting out and we put our head down and just started plugging away.   Made a couple swing changes, two, three weeks ago.   We switched to the claw putting grip.   
Got a little bit of confidence after playing with Paul Casey.   I played with him last week at Torrey Pines and he said you got to believe in yourself.   I came here with a new attitude and it seemed to really pay off.   
Now I'm headed down to Riviera, which has been real good to me.   So I got a lot of confidence going down there.   
But to birdie the last three here at Pebble Beach, as special as this place is, is really special in my career.   
   
 Q.   How rewarding is it to make some switches, a few changes, and not quite sure where your game is, to be able to come out and do it?  
CHARLIE BELJAN:   Yeah, yeah, it's just, you have to trust yourself and have to trust what you've been doing.   We have been doing it on the driving range.   Haven't quite brought it to the close.   But we know we have been close.   We know we have been playing well and for it to come together like this, at a place like this, and to finish the way I did was really special.   
   
 Q.   Spectacular finish down its stretch here.   
CHARLIE BELJAN:   Yeah, birdied 16, 17 and 18 on Pebble on Sunday is a pretty special thing to do.   With all the history and all the great shots that have been here.   
We have been struggling the last four or five months and it's been coming around and to put ourself in this position is something special.  
   
 Q.   How familiar were you with Pebble Beach coming into this tournament and did you expect to be able to contend?  
CHARLIE BELJAN:   I played here the last four years.   The weather hasn't been as beautiful.   They have given me every Sunday off.   
So coming here on Sunday ‑‑ and I knew I could contend.   I knew I was playing well.   I just needed to get some putts to drop and needed to keep believing.   And the way we finished really proves that the way we were thinking is the right way.  
   
 Q.   Given the weather and the forecast, people predicted a record score might happen and Brandt Snedeker is on his way to accomplishing that.   Did Sunday play the way you expected, this course?  
CHARLIE BELJAN:   Well it's played the same way that it's played every other day this week, which has been perfect scoring conditions.   
You knew teeing it up and hitting your first shot on No. 1 that if you didn't go out and make four or five birdies you were going to get lapped.   So it kind of puts a little bit of pressure on you, but that's what we do.   
   
 Q.   Your performance today, what does that‑‑ how does that set you up for your confidence in weeks to come?  
CHARLIE BELJAN:   Boy, I'm going down to Riviera next week which has been nothing but wonderful to me.   
My confidence is through the roof right now.   So I'm going to keep believing, keep working hard, doing the same things we're doing and continue to hopefully have great progress.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT