HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 22, 2015
Charlie Beljan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Did the day begin with you warming up thinking you had this score in you, maybe get to 5‑under?  
CHARLIE BELJAN:   Yeah, absolutely.   I didn't think I was going to be 5‑under through nine, both John and I started out the day making a few putts and unfortunately kind of fizzled out on the back.   But I haven't played golf in two and a half months, so first round of the 2015 season, I'll sign for 5‑under and be a happy camper.  
   
 Q.   Any reason for it being a little bit hot and cold starting out so well and then cooling off?  
CHARLIE BELJAN:   We made quite a few putts to start down the front nine and then the back nine we didn't hit it that well to give ourselves too many opportunities, but we're looking forward to two more days.   
This tournament has been good to me my first years out here and tomorrow with the Nicklaus and Palmer lots of birdie and eagle possibilities, so we'll see what we can do.  
   
 Q.   Does Mr.Daly keep you a little bit loose out there?  
CHARLIE BELJAN:   Yeah, it's the first time ‑‑ we both travel in a rig and a bus, so we spent time together, but we never played golf together.   We both play fast and we just cruise along and it's how golf should be played.   We had a nice time.  
   
 Q.   It makes a difference though, doesn't it?  
CHARLIE BELJAN:   Huge difference.  
   
 Q.   Playing with the amateurs, you had a great time?  
CHARLIE BELJAN:   We had a great time.   We had two great amateurs from Baltimore and Chicago and they couldn't have been better and cruised along with us.   
But having John there and normally I don't have this many people on a Thursday or Friday out following me, so that kind of gets you pumped up and makes you want to make a few more putts and score a little bit better, so we're looking forward to two more days with John.  
   
 Q.   Any regrets that you left a few out there on the back nine?  
CHARLIE BELJAN:   We could always, it could always be better, it could always be worse.   It's 5‑under, I'm happy.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT