FRYS.COM OPEN
October 9, 2014
Charlie Beljan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CHARLIE BELJAN:   A nice way to end my 20s.   I turn 30 tomorrow.   Coming here today I figured one last good round in the 20s would be something nice to build off and then I start the season with a bogey, and we just kept on cruising after that.   To go 5‑under in the last six or 5‑under in the last four or whatever it was was nice, and I look forward to the next three days.

Q.   How does this golf course set up for you, one of the longest hitters on TOUR, obviously didn't have any problem out there?
CHARLIE BELJAN:   No, we're hitting a lot of irons.   You've just got to hit the ball in the fairway out here.   The rough is tough, and you've got to be on the right side of the holes to make some putts.   It's a beautiful place being up here for the first time.   I think all the players are going to be happy; great conditions, great weather, and it's good.

Q.   As you head into this season, obviously you're a winner on the PGA TOUR, what are you looking forward to?   What have you been working on these last few weeks?
CHARLIE BELJAN:   Boy, we've been working on our wedges, and today we had four kick‑ins, so just a little bit of work on the wedges.   Nothing more than 20, 25 minutes a day on the wedges for me makes all the difference because those are my scoring clubs being a long hitter, so that's what gives me my advantage. 
I'd like to win again, obviously.   One win is great, but two kind of validates, and we'll see where we can go from there. 

Q.   Nice place to spend your birthday.   Are you a wine guy?
CHARLIE BELJAN:   No, I'll tell you what, if there was a rum distillery, we'd be in better shape, but I'll leave the wine to the other boys. 

Q.   Which birdies stand out today of those kick‑ins you mentioned?
CHARLIE BELJAN:   Yeah, 17 was nice to kick it in.   We were 1‑over going into 14, and we hit it in there to about six inches.   That was nice to kick it in.   Then we had two other kick‑ins on the front.   No.8 up the hill which is a tough green to get it close, and we hit it to about four or five inches there.   It's always nice to kick them in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT