NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 14, 2014
Charlie Beljan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Nice start, five birdies, two bogeys, pretty good round today, steady on the front nine and a little rocky road home, nice birdie at 17?  
CHARLIE BELJAN:   Yeah, we'll take maybe a 20‑footer there on 17.   It was a solid day start to finish, had two bad drives resulted in the two bogeys but missed a lot of putts, four or five putts inside of five feet.   Luckily we have 36 holes more to go and I'm in a great position and hopefully they will fall this weekend.  
   
 Q.   You birdied 10, that's always good.   
CHARLIE BELJAN:   Yeah, I birdied 10.   Every time I get out of 10 with a par or birdie, I'm a happy camper.   Just keep hitting our 4‑iron down the left‑hand side and wedge on the green.  
   
 Q.   Tell us about 12.   
CHARLIE BELJAN:   12 is a difficult hole for me.   I like to start is it left and cut it, and if I were to hit it straight‑‑ it was one of the holes I bogey today it's going out‑of‑bounds.   Hit a big block, hit the tree, I think I had 300 yards, made bogey.   I think 12 is the most difficult hole out here.   You have to hit a great tee shot.   
   
 Q.   Thoughts on the weekend?   
CHARLIE BELJAN:   Yeah, I haven't made too many weekends in my career but when I have, I've made the most of them.   So I'm looking forward to going out there, free‑wheeling it and making some birdies and see where I fall on Sunday.   
   
 Q.   Is that how you feel, if you can yourself to the weekend?   
CHARLIE BELJAN:   Yeah, in my career, I haven't moved backwards once on the weekend.   I've only been moving up the leaderboard.   It's getting to Saturday and Sunday that's been the struggled.   I feel great about my team and my caddie and I'm looking forward to 36 holes.  
   
 Q.   What do you attribute that to, your weekend play?  
CHARLIE BELJAN:   I'm just fearless I think.   I think Thursday and Friday, still being a new guy out here, I kind of think about the cut a lot instead of thinking about the top of the leaderboard.   
Once I make the cut, I just see how far up that leaderboard I can move, so if I can move that mind‑set to Thursday and Friday, which I did this week, I think it's going to be very beneficial for my career in the long run.   
   
 Q.   How good did it feel to make birdie?  
CHARLIE BELJAN:   Birdie feels great.   We only had 85 yards.   We were trying to play it five yards short, give ourselves just 20 feet and just happened to hit it a little bit hard to a foot and tapped it in for birdie.   For me No. 10 is kind of like people when they wake up and think about 17 in Sawgrass.   
   
 Q.   What about last year's finish, returning here, was it a good thing?   
CHARLIE BELJAN:   It was great.   I couldn't have been more excited to come.   You know, I didn't get a chance to go back to Disney, so this was the next biggest thing for me to come back and from the time I set foot on the ground, I've just had a great feeling and it showed in the score and the golf I've been playing.   
   
 Q.   What do you think clicked last year when you were here?   
CHARLIE BELJAN:   I think this course suits me.   I think I can hit a lot of fades out there, I can hit a lot of drivers, so I can take advantage of my distance out here, which a lot of courses don't allow me to.   I have to hit more 3‑woods off the tee.   There's a fair amount of room off the tee out here, and the beauty and the history, I'm just looking forward to that hillside on Saturday and Sunday.   
   
 Q.   What's the difference between the way you're playing now and how when you're struggling?   
CHARLIE BELJAN:   I think my putting first and foremost.   I've got a buddy on the bag who used to be a player, and he's reading greens.   Now I know why I miss so many putts on my own.   He's the reason we've made so many putts, he's given me a lot of opportunities and I think I just have a bit better mind‑set.   Just trying to enjoy the walk, instead of thinking about it as a job or a career or a struggle.   I'm at Riviera, I'm walking the fairways, playing the PGA TOUR, it's not too bad.   
   
 Q.   Does he have experience as a caddie?  
CHARLIE BELJAN:   Yeah, he's been back in Scottsdale as a club called Silverleaf (ph).   This season he caddied a Web.com event, and yesterday was his first go at it, and I'd say it's going pretty well.   
   
 Q.   What's his name?   
CHARLIE BELJAN:   Ricky Ramona (ph).  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT