MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 11, 2005
Elaine Elliott
Lana Sitterud
Kim Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COACH ELLIOTT:  Obviously, it is a good win for us, you know, a rivalry game.  They are usually wild affairs.  And you know, I am happy.  I am pleased with our effort, pleased with the game.  You know, just in general, it was probably pretty big for us to get that game.


Q.  Kim, what do you guys need to do better to beat these guys?  They have beaten you twice.  What do you need to do better?

KIM SMITH:  I don't think we have had a game against them this year where our whole team has put in a good team performance.  And that is all we are looking for:  to play hard and rebound hard against them.

Q.  Do you think playing hard and rebounding hard is going to be the difference?

KIM SMITH: 
Well, we haven't done it yet, so I guess we'll find out.

Q.  What about the three points in the first half?

LANA SITTERUD:  Yes, it did.

Q.  You were hitting a lot of them, Kim. 

KIM SMITH:  I was feeling it in the first half.  They were sitting screens for me.  Everybody was feeling it in the first half.  Of course that's a great way to open up the came.  And then in the second half, you know, we got it inside, too.  We didn't take too many, I don't think, which we tend to do when we feel a little hot, so it was good.

Q.  Do you feel like the edge you have on BYU is similar to the edge New Mexico has on you in any way right now?

KIM SMITH:  I wouldn't say anybody has an edge on anybody before the game starts, unless it is mental.  Our team is strong mentally.  New Mexico doesn't have an edge on us.  I don't see any reason why they would have one.  What happened in the past is in the past.  It is not something you carry with you in the next game. 


Q.  Elaine, I'll ask you the same question I asked them.  What do you guys need to do better as a team to beat these guys this time?

COACH ELLIOTT:  Fairly similar to Kim in terms of, you know, we don't have a lot of room for error.  We don't have great depth, and so we need the kids that we have all to pitch in.  We can't get it done with a few contributions.  If we can't feel like when the game is over we sort of -- you know, if we said, boy, our post had a good game, or, you know, Lana had a good game, you know, then we were not going to get the W and that is why we didn't get the W the first two.  We can't beat them without all operating cylinders.

Q.  Does that mean that you need the freshman and forwards to play better?

COACH ELLIOTT:  That is correct.

Q.  Just talk about the three-point shooting.  They actually had more field goals than you did.  You had nine more three-point shots.  They were early on the clock.  Is that your game plan, to shoot when you are open on those?

COACH ELLIOTT:  If you are open you usually have a better chance.  We are not concerned about taking early or late shots.  We are hoping to take shots we can make.  If we are shooting three points at any point in time, I hope they are good looks and we are happy about that. 


Q.  They kind of shut down Kim the second half and Shona the whole game.  Just talk about the contributions of some of your players like Heidi and Perry and some of those people that come through with some big shots?

COACH ELLIOTT:  That is one of the things that has been consistent in our three games against BYU.  We had good overall performances in those games.  Tonight was the same.  We got contributions off the bench.  Camie and Shauna Brouillard came off the bench and made a very good impact on the game.  That is why we have been successful in those terms.  Those -- we had good team performance, I think, in our match-ups against the Y.

Q.  What are you going to say to get your team motivated to beat New Mexico?

COACH ELLIOTT:  We want a good performance.  That is what we go towards.  That is what we talk about.  Those are the things that win games, not the kind of things you like to write about.  We just don't go there.  We just try to prepare.

Q.  Congratulations.  Do you think this year there is no doubt you are an NCAA team?

COACH ELLIOTT:  That is what I think, Mike.  I just told somebody, I think I am out of coaching if it doesn't work this year.  I don't know what else you can do. 


Q.  Do you feel like New Mexico and Utah deserve to get in?

COACH ELLIOTT:  I absolutely do.  New Mexico, that is the best depth in our league.  And that means they are the best team.  Our kids have performed and come away with a co-championship and are in the championship.  They had just as a successful a season.  I see us as deserving as well. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT