AUSTIN 1ST 2ND ROUND NCAA WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
December 1, 2017
Mark Barnard
Kory Cheshire
Mary-Kate Marshall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








NC State - 3, Oregon St - 2
25-18, 19-25, 25-21, 21-25, 15-13
THE MODERATOR: We're going to start with an opening statement from head coach Mark Barnard.
COACH BARNARD: First of all, congratulations to North Carolina State.  They deserved to win that.  There's no doubt.  They played the way we wanted to play.  They didn't allow us to play that way.
So I felt that we tried.  We tried as hard as we possibly could.  Unfortunately we just didn't match up to them physically.  And, like I said, they played an aggressive style of volleyball.  We weren't able to do as well as we've done in the past, not to say we would have necessarily won, but we certainly could have put ourselves maybe in a little bit better contention, but that didn't happen.
I'm proud of what the team's accomplished this year.  They've had a fantastic 12 months.  So just saying in the locker room, 12 months ago we were sitting at home watching this tournament.
So there's a big difference.  And it's always hard to lose, but we were beaten by a better team, and that's life and we'll learn from that.  And next year we'll aim for just a little step higher.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athletes.
Q. (A question about reaching this point in the season.)
MARY-KATE MARSHALL: I'm super proud of our team.  We came in with goals to get 18 wins and we surpassed that.  We made it to the tournament.  So I think just the expectations from here on out are making it to the tournament, making it to the second round, keeping it going every year.
KORY CHESHIRE: Same thing as MK said -- what we accomplished this season is unbelievable, and we surpassed our goal by a long shot in the season.  And obviously the result isn't what we wanted, but to get here, and like Mark said last year we were sitting at home watching and to be here is an incredible experience.  So for that we're grateful.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT