TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: CONNECTICUT v OKLAHOMA
December 29, 2010
Ryan Broyles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Do you guys know much about them? Talk a little bit about that, because that's the big card they are playing. 
 RYAN BROYLES: We respect every opponent we play. You can't do anything but respect the next team you are going to play. UConn, they have a chip on their shoulder. No one is expecting them to win this game. They will come out fighting, and we have to beat them.

 Q. You are an honest guy. 
 RYAN BROYLES: Yeah.

 Q. How much did you know about them before this? 
 RYAN BROYLES: Not much -- I knew about their basketball team (laughter).

 Q. Now that you have seen them, are you kind of like they belong? 
 RYAN BROYLES: Definitely. They ended the season well. Won the last five games, I believe. They are playing strong right now and looking forward to the challenge.

 Q. They just stepped in and put up some numbers. It has become a quarterback factor for you guys. Can you talk a little bit about that?
 RYAN BROYLES: Adrian's running game has changed. I have an honor to play with him. He gets guys involved when he needs to. The offensive coordinator's definitely putting plays in line for us.

 Q. Do you feel like you can be stopped when you get on the field?
 RYAN BROYLES: I feel like I play with a chip on my shoulder. I have always been that way. Always hear I'm not big enough to play, not big enough to win. I try to make any adjustment I can to be the best I can.

 Q. Do you feel there is something to be proved for you?
 RYAN BROYLES: It is time to win a BCS game. It is time for us. We are looking forward to the battle. 
 Tip our hat to the coaches, everyone that has got us to this position.

 Q. It seems like you guys come here and you are always vastly rated to kick the crap out of the team you play but something weird always seems to happen. Does it get in your mind sometimes?
 RYAN BROYLES: No. Being one of those teams that's picked to win, we are definitely preparing to win this game.

 Q. Talk about your team, though. Where did it really click in for you guys this year? I know you have had a solid year. Where do you feel like something became special?
 RYAN BROYLES: We had our stride about the middle of the season. We worked hard, and it is definitely paying off. Looking forward to what we have next. And definitely set up well for next year. 

 Q. How exciting has this whole season been for you? 
 RYAN BROYLES: Real exciting. Coming off a season like we did last year. We didn't expect it to turn out the way it did last year. We are back this year with a lot of the same players. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT