MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 12, 2004
Jennifer Rosales
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  All right.  Thanks, Jennifer, for joining us.  Good follow up round to the first round.  We had a little bit of different week this week with 36 holes tomorrow.  You must be very happy about the position you're in now.
JENNIFER ROSALES:  I'm pretty happy.  My round didn't went that smooth today.  I missed a few fairways and the first few holes I just couldn't    I was always in between clubs, had a hard time hitting it.  I hung in there today, and I liked the way I finished.
Q.  First time in the rough, Jennifer, was that any kind of a reminder saying, "Let's not do this again"?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  Oh, yeah, on the 12th hole, my third hole, I missed it left.  I thought I hit it good.  It played really long this morning and stayed on the rough on the left side.  There is no out.  I hit it right in front of the green and made bogey.
Q.  On 18 it didn't seem like you liked how it ended up.
JENNIFER ROSALES:  It turned out pretty good.  I wanted to hit it over the water and get a 100 yard shot to the green.  My third shot spun back.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
JENNIFER ROSALES:  It was in the cart path.
Q.  Did you ever (inaudible)?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  I hurt my wrist before doing that.  I don't want to do it again.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  That's true, but cement, over grass.
Q.  When you have those first three holes aren't going like you want them to, are you getting mad, worried, or stay calm?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  I stayed calm.  I told myself there is so many holes, keep hitting fairways and greens, just kind of hang in there.  It turned out pretty good today.
Q.  Playing 36 holes tomorrow, do you have any past success or experience with that?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  Yeah, the last time I played 36 holes was the US Open qualifier three years ago.  It was tiring, but I'm going to take a power nap this afternoon, pace myself, and rest the whole day, and get ready for tomorrow's round.
Q.  Jennifer, when you come to 16, are you thinking, "This is a hole that I need to try to birdie," is that kind of the mind set going into that hole just because it is the one that gives you the best chance for that?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  That hole sets up my drive.  I hit the ball left and right, and it turns out perfect.  I hit it the same way as I hit it the other way, and hit it good, and hit my 5 wood about 15 feet to the hole.  That was my second birdie on that side.
Q.  Is it almost a hole where if you get par, it's bad sometimes?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  Not really, because it's just a matter of going for it and trusting where you're lined up.  If you aim a little left, you go through the fairway.  You've got to trust and try to fade it.  I thought my tee shot a couple days ago was way right.  It turned out perfect.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  In that point, it doesn't matter.  Like yesterday, when we took a day off, and I was pretty happy I got to watch a movie.  I know the consequences of playing 36 holes tomorrow.  That's the way it is.  You've got to do it.
Q.  Does that make tomorrow morning's round fairly pivotal in terms of fighting bad momentum or carrying on with good momentum?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  It's going to be tough.  Especially tomorrow the pressure is there.  After that, you've got to play another 18.  Endurancewise, I just have to keep going tomorrow, and try to hit fairways and not in the rough because it takes so much power over you.
Q.  When does the pressure start?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  Yeah, well, like in Atlanta when I won the tournament, it didn't hit me until after the round, like waiting, that's the putt that killed me.  Tomorrow is going to be different.  You've got to play 36 and be strong all the way.  Hopefully I'll do that tomorrow.
Q.  What was it like playing with Juli?  You guys were going neck and neck for the lead.  It still seemed like you guys were having fun out there.
JENNIFER ROSALES:  I love playing with Juli.  She's an awesome player.  I told her today, "We're going to end up playing tomorrow again," and she goes, "Hopefully."
Q.  What movie yesterday?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  I watched Harry Potter.  Don't put that there.
Q.  You won your first tournament earlier this year.  Is it kind of nice, you have a 36 hole lead at a major, have that out of the way and not have that over you?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  You know what?  Today was     when I teed off today I told myself that it doesn't matter how you do today, you played good yesterday.  If it's for you, it's for you.  That's how I see it.  First few holes was a little bit shaky for me.  I took three deep breaths and kept going, trusting my swing all the way, even though it's kind of off today.  Thank God my putting on the other side went well.
Q.  Let's go ahead and do your scorecard, starting with 10.

(Scorecard read.)
Q.  As you're going through your round when you make birdie on 14, considering the start you had, how much of a settler downer    that was that's not real English?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  I felt good on that birdie, and then I bogeyed the next hole.
Q.  What would you say was the key shot to     turning point for you to get to 70 for the day?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  When I made that putt on the first hole it was a long putt, and I just told myself trust the line, and suddenly I felt good about my stroking and made another putt on the third hole.  I wasn't hitting it close.  You know when I get it over with, my round, I shake it off and go on to the next one.
Q.  Okay.   Thank you, Jennifer.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT