MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 11, 2004
Jennifer Rosales
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Thanks for joining us.  We just want to get a few comments from you about what you think about the cancellation today and moving the second round to tomorrow and playing 36 on Sunday.

What do you think about all that.
JENNIFER ROSALES:  What do I think about all that?  Well, you know, I can't do anything about it.  It's nature, you know, but I'm looking forward for tomorrow.  It's going to be tough for Sunday.  We'll have to play 36 holes.
Q.  What are you going to do today?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  I'm going     actually I just did my laundry.  I'm going to have lunch and watch a movie.
Q.  We'll take a few questions.

Jennifer, this is Doug with the News Journal here in Delaware.  How important is it for you to have 72 holes for a major tournament like this?  Is that a proprietary for the players.
JENNIFER ROSALES:  Yes.  If you don't play good on one of the days, you still have     like we got washed out today, at least we have three more days to make up for it.  It's going to be tough.  You've got to play 36 holes on Sunday, but everybody has to do it.
Q.  Jennifer, this is Kevin Adams from Golf Week.  Is taking a day off like this after having such a good round yesterday, does it stop your momentum?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  I think it's better, instead of just going out there and pulling us out again and come back and forth.  I like it better like this.  I'll get ready my mindset for tomorrow and on the weekend.
Q.  Anything else?  Does she have a rain bandana?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  A rain bandana?  See, that, I don't.  I never thought of it, but it's hard playing in rain with just a bandana because it goes to your face.  I got used to it this year, so it doesn't bother me.
Q.  Jen, do you think that playing 36 holes on Sunday, does that favor players who are in better shape, or does that not matter very much about your fitness?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  Of course, it will get to you.  Actually, the last time I played 36 holes was the US Open qualifier three years ago.  It's tough.  You only have about     they give you 15 minutes to rest.  We'll see.  At least we get to put in 72 holes, which is good in a major tournament.
Q.  Jennifer, this is Joe Guliano from the Philadelphia Enquirer.  Tomorrow the course will be pretty wet and soggy.  How will that affect your game, if at all?
JENNIFER ROSALES: I don't mind the course playing long.  I hit the ball a little bit higher, so it will be     it doesn't affect me as much as the others.  It's part of the game.  I'm kind of used to playing with wet conditions this year.
Q.  Jen, at this point, the plan is to not have the final holes covered by television on Sunday because the coverage will go off at 6:00.  If it's not on TV, is that a big deal for the tour?  Is that a major disappointment, or does that not matter that much?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  It's kind of sad because they don't know what's going on, who's going to win it.  Like what I said, it's just nature, we can't do anything about it.  But, I mean, I don't know what to say, it's a loss, but I think they've got coverage until 6:00.  But, you know, we've got to play.  We've got to keep going.
Q.  Anything else.  All right.  Jennifer, thanks.  Have a good day off.  We'll see you here tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT