MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 7, 2004
Jennifer Rosales
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thanks for coming in.  Thanks for waiting for us to finish up with Christine that there.  One back, one last week playing great this week.  So give us your thoughts and we'll  take some questions.
JENNIFER ROSALES: My thoughts?  Nothing, no thoughts.  No, I just -- I wasn't expecting anything this week and actually I am playing pretty good so far.  And I am just looking forward to the weekend and see what happens.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Questions.
Q.  Why weren't you expecting anything this week?  Were you still coming down from last week?
JENNIFER ROSALES: Yeah, I am just so exhausted from last week, I didn't get any feeling this week, but so far so good.
Q.  It makes for a big let-down winning, just makes for a big let-down in the following days?
JENNIFER ROSALES: Not really.  A lot of confidence going on, but just couldn't get any sleep from last, you know, last week, just excitement and just so happy.
Q.  Do you worry about how much gas you have left in the tank for the weekend?
JENNIFER ROSALES: Yeah, I kind of worried about that.  But I am just going to try to pace myself.  I am done for the day, just try to rest and, you know, enjoy my night.
Q.  Do you feel different now that you have been like when you got here, did you feel different?  Did you feel like, I don't know, your resume had to  -- was your resume a boost?  Was it a boost to have won and is there an heir about you that's maybe a little bit different this week?
JENNIFER ROSALES: You know what, just feels good to get that first win and I hope that you know, every week  -- well, right now I feel really good, I feel really confident, and I will just take that every week and put myself in a good position again and get that second win.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Talk about golf in the Philippines growing up, how easy is it to play golf over there?
JENNIFER ROSALES: Golf back home is getting really popular; especially now that I won, a lot of young girls trying to follow my footsteps, which is, I am pretty happy.  We're trying to build a J-Ro Cup when I get back home, so it's going to be fun.  Looking forward to that.
Q.  On the clothing issue   --
JENNIFER ROSALES: Issue.  (Laughs) it's an issue?
Q.  The styles are changing and people seem to be jazzing it up quite a bit.  Not to say that the more conservative clothes are boring, or old looking but I mean, do you all feel that you are sort of distinguishing yourselves individually also giving the fans kind of a way to pick out different players and maybe see golf as not quite as --
JENNIFER ROSALES: Yeah, you know what, I came out here and I just want to be different from anyone else.  It's just my thing, it just reflects on my personality.  And that's it.  I am not trying to get noticed.  It is just -- I love dressing up different.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Do you have a hand in designing anything at all?
JENNIFER ROSALES: Well, two months from now I get to pick what I want to wear, try to because Bally golf can just go to extremes.  And I keep telling them, come on, I need some, you know, something going on, some flashy, but they are getting there, trying to change their line for me, for the younger generation.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Let's go over the score card.
JENNIFER ROSALES: Sure.

Bogeyed No. 1, 3-putted it.
Q.  Do you know from how far?
JENNIFER ROSALES: About 30-foot putt.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Birdie on 3.
JENNIFER ROSALES: I was on in two, 2-putt.
PAUL ROVNAK:  What did you use to get on?
JENNIFER ROSALES: 5-wood.
PAUL ROVNAK:  How long was that?
JENNIFER ROSALES: 20-foot.

Birdie on 4, 3 foot putt.  I hit a wedge.

Birdie 5, chipped in from about, it was just off-line, 25-footer.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Birdie on 6.
JENNIFER ROSALES: Eight feet.  I had a 9-iron.

Birdie 7, missed it pin-high on the left.  I had about 40, 30, chipped.  Ended eight feet for birdie.

10, about two feet.  I hit 8-iron.

Bogey on 17.  I missed it left.  Pin-high though but just missed it left and just couldn't make that par putt about five feet.  6-iron off the tee.
Q.  When you get a string of birdies going like that including a chip-in, are you thinking wow, this could be an amazing day or do you not think that way because then you start  --
JENNIFER ROSALES: Yeah, sometimes it's too early of a round to think about, you know, because the back side is a little bit tougher than the front side.  And just here you just miss one drive you could end up making easy bogey or double.  So I just kept it in play and just couldn't make any putts, the last few holes.
Q.  How aggressively do you play this course?  Do you find yourself going for a lot of shots or are you just thinking fairways and greens most of the time?
JENNIFER ROSALES: I attacked everything.  But sometimes when the pin is -- sometimes you play with the percentage, you know, if there's no room on the left I aim a little bit right, so if I miss it right, I have greens to work with.
Q.  Sunday is Mother's Day.  Talk a little bit about the impact your mom has had on your career and your life to this point?
JENNIFER ROSALES: Oh, my mom just had  -- my mom is diagnosed with cancer, breast cancer, and she just had her surgery Monday.  And it went well.  She's still in the first stage which is really, you know, happy for that.  Now she's recovering and she is going to start her chemo probably when she gets better.
Q.  When you first wanted to play golf, was she supportive in general, never do that or how did your relationship unfold when you were just beginning to play golf?
JENNIFER ROSALES: My mom?
Q.  Yes.
JENNIFER ROSALES: My mom was very supportive.  She watched me at all my tournaments as a junior golfer and college and amateur she was there behind me all the time.
Q.  You say your mom just had surgery just this past Monday.  Has that contributed  -- can you talk about just the high of winning last weekend but then your mom's situation, how difficult has that been for you to handle?
JENNIFER ROSALES: It was hard.  I just want to make my mom proud of me and I played good last week and to just help her during her surgery she felt a little bit better and happy before she had her operation.
Q.  You sort of dedicated last week's victory to her?
JENNIFER ROSALES: Yes, I did.
Q.  Where is she?
JENNIFER ROSALES: She's in LA right now.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT