MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 5, 2004
Jennifer Rosales
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL ROVNAK:  Thanks for coming in.  Picked up your first win last week in Atlanta.  That had to be pretty exciting.  Have you had a chance to calm down a little bit, still riding on those emotions?
JENNIFER ROSALES: Still in cloud 9 right now.  But I am so exhausted.
Q.  Can you anything special to celebrate?
JENNIFER ROSALES: Not yet.  Not yet.  I don't have a time yet, probably three weeks from now in New York.  Looking forward to that.
PAUL ROVNAK:  We'll go ahead and open it up for some questions.
Q.  The reaction back home?
JENNIFER ROSALES: Crazy.  I mean our president wanted me to go home.  She's campaigning right now to run again, I don't know if I am going to go home or not.  I wanted to play.  So I think I am going to stay here first.
Q.  What do you think of this venue, return trip here, and your prospect to make it two in a row?
JENNIFER ROSALES: I am not even thinking of that.  I don't know.  I will see.  I am going to make a run for it.  I love this course.  I played good here last year.  We'll see what happens.
Q.  Why do you think this course suits your game well?
JENNIFER ROSALES: I don't know.  I just like playing in a tough course, and last year it played my shots, I played a little fade, so this course will really work good for me.
Q.  Does it play any differently this year?
JENNIFER ROSALES: Yeah, feels like a bit longer this morning.  I don't know if I am just tired or  -- (laughs) I don't know.
Q.  Do you consider yourself a fairly patient person and player and was it starting to weighing on you that you hadn't won or were you like, ahh, it will come?
JENNIFER ROSALES: Actually last week I stopped caring actually.  I keep (laughs) -- I keep pressuring myself because last year I was always close, you know, tried -- I told myself you know what, just try to change something, you know, something else, probably it's going to work out.  It did work out week, I didn't even think of winning.  It was a good routine for me.  I am going to try to do that again this week.
Q.  Did it help that you were a little off the pace going into the Sunday and you weren't sitting up there right on the lead; you were able to shot 65 --
JENNIFER ROSALES: I shot 70, 70, 69 on the first three days and I think I was in a good spot to make a charge in the last round which I did pretty well.
Q.  Against a pretty good leaderboard too?
JENNIFER ROSALES: Yeah, it was a pretty good field there.  Just lucky.
Q.  Are you not going to care this week?
JENNIFER ROSALES: No, yeah, I am going to stop caring.  (Laughter).
Q.  Do you think now that you have won, that two and three will come perhaps in more rapid succession?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  We'll see.  I am just pretty happy.  I had won already and that was my goal, you know, to get it as soon as possible and just give confidence to myself.
Q.  How did winning last week change your routine or your pre-tournament routine for this week?
JENNIFER ROSALES: You know what, I haven't done any practicing yet, actually, to tell you the truth.  This morning, that's the first time I held a club.  I tried to practice yesterday, but I just had no energy.  My mind wasn't into it.  Just I was such in a different world.  I couldn't figure it out what it is.  It is the win or just  -- couldn't get any sleep.
Q.  What do you think has made this tournament so popular this second year?  Everybody likes to come here.  It seems 100 or so of the top on the money list are here.  What do you think the reason for that is?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  Reason is the purse went a little bit higher.  (Laughs).  It's a great track.  Everybody loves the course and people here are great.  I mean, they really welcome us.  They are really nice, fans are good too.  Everybody is nice in this town.
Q.  You talk about not having any energy and not practicing this week.  What other things did you do in the first part of the week?
JENNIFER ROSALES: Interviews.  Like a lot.
PAUL ROVNAK:We got a lot more for you.
JENNIFER ROSALES: I was just mentally drained out.  I get phone calls from back home, the time difference, they don't know, they call me like midnight, two in the morning, 3 in the morning I get interviews live, it was crazy, you know, and I can't say no.  They are going to trash me big-time if I do that.  I just did it.  My coach told me to do it and my mom, just for them to be happy so I did it.
Q.  Is there a different mental approach for a longer course, do you have to be more patient?  Do you have to be  --
JENNIFER ROSALES: I like playing, you know, long courses.  I think that's one of my strongest game is my drive and my long irons, so that's why I like the scores and the roughs are pretty good.  (Laughs).
Q.  At least once the tournament starts this week will you turn the ringer off on the cell phone?
JENNIFER ROSALES: I did that last night for the first time, yes.  I put it on silent and I slept pretty good.  Five hours.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Anymore questions?  Thank you.
JENNIFER ROSALES: Thank you, guys.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT