CHICK-FIL-A CHARITY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 2004
Jennifer Rosales
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Tell us your thoughts right now.
JENNIFER ROSALES:   My thoughts right now, I can't explain it.  It's not sinking in yet.  I'm just so happy and I'm just really happy, that's all.
Q.  How tough was it, obviously you finished 45 minutes before everybody else came in, how tough was it, you weren't even watching, you were lurking around in the trees, how tough was it watching everybody come in?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   It was tough watching them.  You know, I just tried to stay awake     I tried so much not to watch, just to keep my head somewhere else.  I called my mom to talk to her, and that's what I did.
Q.  Was that your mother you called after you won it and where is he?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   She's in L.A. right now.
Q.  What was that conversation like?  Were you able to tell her that you had won your first tournament?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   My mom was crying, actually, because she wanted to be out here, you know, for my first win, but it was all right, though.  She was pretty happy.
Q.  What's her name?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   Lourdes.
Q.  You seemed to have come from nowhere, all of these good names on the board, you zipped past them and you had to wait; what was the key to your game today, no bogeys, what was working for you today?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   Well, first of all, I would like to thank the players that I played with today.  They helped me get through this.  It was just, I just took, you know, one shot at a time.  I've been to this position and I just tried to hang in there and just finish the round strong.
Q.  Did your nerves slowly mount as you realized you were taking aim at the title?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   I was a little bit, the last few holes, I was doing fine till the 17th, and then it was starting, I could feel it now, I was taking deep breaths and that helped me a lot.
Q.  Did you think you would have needed a birdie on the last hole to win the tournament; to be able to get a par and still win there, you wouldn't have expected that probably?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   Yeah, that was pretty a amazing, but the last few holes played really tough, especially 16, 17 played a little bit longer.  So I told myself, just play par the rest of the three holes, I'll be fine, but I really wanted to birdie the 18th, just to make sure.
Q.  What happened on the second shot on 18?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   I hit a home run there.  (Laughter.) I don't know, I was so pumped up.  I had like 215 to the hole, and I don't know why, I just took my 3 wood and just busted it and killed it, I really killed it.  I'm so glad nobody got hurt.  (Laughter.)

But I thought, you know, just too much adrenaline going on there.  It turned out pretty good, actually.  Thank God for the grandstand over there on the left side.
Q.  What kind of lie did you have on the third shot?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   It was terrible.  When I dropped it, it was plugged and it was thick and I'm just so lucky I got out of it.
Q.  Were you watching the score board?  Did you know what Kim had done?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   I tried not to because I learned my lesson before, watching it, but I just can't help it.  Every time I go this way, I see my name on it.  It was pretty hard.
Q.  I think it was Becky Morgan and one other player had a chance to tie you, and you would have had to go to a sudden death playoff just like what happened with Se  Ri  Pak last year, were you prepared for that emotionally, or what would you have been     would what you have felt like if you had to go through; do you think you would be ready to have done it?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   Last year I went to a playoff, too, with really great players; that would help me a little bit.  I wanted to go down to the range already just to loosen up, but turned out my way, so, I was pretty happy.
Q.  I'm sure you've had certain dreams and fantasies about what your first victory out here would be like, how close did reality match what those were, and how close     how close have you been in the past?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   Last year, I've been really close.  I've been up there every week, trying to get that first one.

See, this week, I really didn't expect it the all.  I wasn't really thinking about it.  I should do that more often; no?  (Laughter.)

It's a great feeling.  I'm probably just going to go home and take a long shower and just try to, you know, I don't know, think about it and what I did today.
Q.  Does it make it more special by the fact that it was probably the best leaderboard of the year, all of the biggest names challenging you up there?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   Oh, yeah, it's a great win when all of the top players are playing in an event.  It's a really great win.
Q.  Did you really think you had a chance today considering you were four shots back and the number of, obviously, big names that were between and you the top spot?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   When I teed it up today, I told myself, it's anybody's game, anybody is close, anybody could win it.  I just told myself, try to make birdies and really see what happens.  That's what I did.  On the first hole when I made my putt, I kind of felt a little bit, you know, I'm going to go, I have nothing to lose, so try to make a run out of it.
Q.  Did you feel that early on that you were in the middle of it; that you had a chance to win?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   I did when I went to the back side.  I was hitting the ball good, putting well.  I was just going, give me signs that this is for me, and it did when I made birdie on 11.
Q.  Finishing early, did that make it easy to play, not being in the last couple of groups?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   No, doesn't matter to me.  If I'm the last group, I'll be happy but it's better to win coming from behind.
Q.  Coming down the stretch, at that point did you know you were in the lead and were you paying attention at that point?  Did you look at the board and see, all of a sudden, you were on top?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   Actually when I made a birdie on 14, I knew that I was on top already because I kind of glanced and I saw 14 under.  You know, my heart beat fast each hole after that hole.  But I kept my composure, and I'm taking deep breaths.
Q.  Do you have a boyfriend?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   (Laughter.) No comment on that one.  (Laughter.)
Q.  What is your hobbies besides playing golf?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   Hobby?  I love to shop.  (Laughter.) Right now, I'm going to go shopping till I drop.  (Laughter.)
Q.  Can you name the shopping place, your favorite shopping place?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   Oh, there's one in L.A., it's called the South Coast Plaza.  They have all of the big names, brand names there.  So I'm going to go over there after, three weeks from now, I'm going to go shopping, take my mom shopping.
Q.  What makes a good golfer?  And does being Filipino American, how does it help?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   Oh, it takes a lot of hard work, a lot of discipline, a lot of determination.  When I started, I had to give up some of my social life, actually, to get where I am right now and I'm pretty happy with that.
Q.  In the future, if you have a girl, if she's interested in playing golf, would you recommend her, playing golf like a career?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   Oh, yeah, back home, I'm trying to encourage a lot of young ones.  Right now, we are doing a lot better.  There are a lot of young golfers coming out of the Philippines and some of them have to do with me.  If I can do it, they can, that's for sure.

The first hole, I had about     I hit a 7 iron into about 12 feet.

The birdie on 3, I had an 8 iron and I had about 20 feet.

6, I hit it on front on the par  5 and I had about three feet.  I chipped from front of the green.

7, I hit a 54 wedge and I had about a foot left.

11, I hit a 6 iron off the tee and I had about ten feet.

13, I hit a 54 again, par 5, and eight feet.

14, I hit a 54 again, about, I'd say, four feet, three feet.
Q.  Were you more nervous when you were finishing up the last couple of holes or the time that you had to wait     when you were waiting to find out whether it was going to be a playoff or not?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   Having to wait, that was more nerve wracking.
Q.  What was going through your mind?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   A lot.  You know, I don't want to go through a playoff again because my first playoff I lost, so that wasn't a good experience.

But I was just     you know, I was talking to my caddie the whole time, trying to take my mind off it.  I was so nervous, I couldn't even     I couldn't even     I don't know, I couldn't even sign my name.  I was that nervous.  My hands were like shaking.  I'm drinking water and even though I'm drinking water, I was dehydrated.  I never felt like that before in my life     probably on my wedding day.
Q.  You had a lot of putts that just barely missed yesterday, were you playing kind of the same as you did yesterday, but maybe just some of those putts were falling yesterday?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   The key was the first hole.  When I putted and just hit the hole, I just felt okay, this is it, my putts are going to drop, so that's what I said.  So I thought, just gave it chance, think of the pace and it will go in.
Q.  Do you live in California?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   Well, my home is still in the Philippines, but I live in L.A. with my sister.
Q.  What do you think the impact will be in the Philippines?  I don't know how golf is appreciated there.
JENNIFER ROSALES:   Oh, golf is getting big back home.  Actually, they stayed up all night just to watch, you know, how I did, and they are all like waiting for me back home and they are really proud of me.

Actually, it was in L.A.  i was talking to my sister and my mom.  My brother, he plays on the Asian Tour and he finished pretty good last week, too.  He finished, I think it was Top 5, so it ended up we had a good week together.  So pretty happy with that.
Q.  Do you talk to him on the phone a lot?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   Yeah, I'm going to call him after we are done here.
Q.  What time was it back there?
JENNIFER ROSALES:   It was 5:00, 5:00  AM their time.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT