U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 3, 2004
Jennifer Rosales
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CRAIG SMITH:  Jennifer Rosales leading the championship at minus 7.
Q.  What's the best approach to making a three stroke lead stand up?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  Well, a little cushion there, 
but in an Open you never know what's going to happen.  There's a few good players behind me.  But I'm just going to try to play my game tomorrow.
Q.  Pretty impressive collection of people that are going to be doing the chasing, isn't it?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  I know.  Well, I told myself, if it's for me, it's going to happen for me, no matter what I do.  And hopefully I'll just play my game, try not to think about that this is like the biggest event in golf, just try to keep my composure, until the last hole.
Q.  In your words, how well are you playing right now?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  Right now I'm pretty happy, I'm pretty happy with the way I'm playing.  I like where I am right now.  Hopefully it's going to continue tomorrow.
Q.  Where is your composure right now?  It seems with each green your emotional level is being ratcheted up a little bit with each putt?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  It's just so nice to get to that last two holes and just to have a little cushion there.  I'm just looking forward to the challenge tomorrow and we'll see what happens.
Q.  What were you thinking on 13 when you missed the short eagle putt?  You still made birdie, but you obviously had a really good eagle opportunity.
JENNIFER ROSALES:  I told myself it's an eagle putt, if I miss it's a birdie.  So I get one stroke before I go to the 16th hole.  I kind of    I was having that putt all day.  I was just in the wrong side of the green.  I had    I missed a few birdie putts, left to right, that just broke so much.  And then I gave it too much on that hole and it didn't break.  So, yeah, everything that I missed was left to right today.  It seems like when I give it too much, it didn't break and then when I give less, it just breaks so much, so I just couldn't get the right read.
Q.  Just maybe comment on 16, 17, 18 as finishing holes and the potential for some excitement for all of us tomorrow.
JENNIFER ROSALES:  Oh, yeah.  16, 17, 18, at least right now 16 is playing really dry.  The fairways.  You got a lot of roll today.  But the last few days it was really soft.  So you had like a wood in your hand.  And today I only had like a 5 iron to go to the hole.  It makes it a huge difference if you have a wood and an iron.
Q.  17, 18?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  17 is a tough par 3.  I just, you just want to hit it in the center, you don't even have to look at the pin, you just have to hit it in the center and take it from there.

And 18 is a really tough hole too.  It's about your drive, putting it in a nice spot to go for the hole.  Which I did pretty good today and I was pretty happy with it.
Q.  How much is that win earlier in the year going to help you down the stretch tomorrow?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  It will help a little bit.  I know how to handle my pressure now going to the last day.  And especially with a few good players behind me, I'm just going to try to maintain my composure and we'll see.
Q.  Are you a scoreboard watcher?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  I am sometimes.  Just can't help it.  I just want to see where you are.  Tomorrow I'm not going to try to, but I can't promise myself that.  You just can't help your head going this way, you know, looking at it.
Q.  What do you tell yourself when you see all the leap frogging going on, you see Annika make the eagle and she's one stroke behind you, what are you doing to calm yourself or what thoughts are going through your head?
JENNIFER ROSALES:  Well Annika is Annika.  You know she's going to make birdies out there.  She's a grinder, she's going to get those birdies.  So I just told myself, "Play your game, Jen, make birdies too."  And that's what I did on the last few holes.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT