U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 2, 2004
Jennifer Rosales
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RHONDA GLENN:  Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, Jennifer Rosales shot a 67 today, she stands at 5-under par, through the championship.

You had a great day out there, wonderful round.  That's your lowest round in the Women's Open, is it not?
 JENNIFER ROSALES:  Yes, I think it is, yes.
RHONDA GLENN:  And we just looked at all the tape on her fingers, and she said she has blisters, but she hasn't been practicing that much?
 JENNIFER ROSALES:  Props.
RHONDA GLENN:  And she's only five-five and weighs 115 pounds, if you want to know.

Her tee shot on the 8th hole was 249 yards.  You're hitting it pretty long.
 JENNIFER ROSALES:  Yeah, we don't get any rolls, so it's all carry.
RHONDA GLENN:  You won early this year, a couple of weeks ago.
 JENNIFER ROSALES:  Three months ago -- two months ago, I think.
RHONDA GLENN:  Does that give you more confidence coming into this championship, once you won one, you feel like you can do it in the Majors.
 JENNIFER ROSALES:  Yeah, it gave me confidence that I can win out here with some of the top players.  So I'm pretty happy with that, gave me some confidence.
Q.  Jennifer, for a lot of people who watched you play college golf, you came out and there was a little flat period in your career, why do you think you suddenly reached a higher level this year, what's the difference in this year, and how would you describe that in your career?
 JENNIFER ROSALES:  Well, my rookie year I had a tough time.  I didn't know what to expect, and I've been pressuring myself to play good.  And I told myself, just let it happen, don't force it, it's going to come.  So I stayed patient and it came for me.
Q.  How did you get these blisters, just from hitting too many balls how do they affect you and how long have you had them?
 JENNIFER ROSALES:  Since I've been playing golf, I guess.  It's just -- I don't know why, it just -- I think I grip too tight.  So it gives me blisters.  To prevent blisters, I tape it up, so it won't get hurt.
Q.  How long have you had them?
 JENNIFER ROSALES:  Since -- I don't know, a long time.  Let's say eight years, probably.
Q.  When you're on a roll like you were today, is playing the extra holes today, is that almost a benefit, because more of them happen when you're playing at that level?
 JENNIFER ROSALES:  Well, not really, the last few holes was pretty tough to start with and I just hang in there and just kind of excited to go to another 18 and make some birdies on the back side.
Q.  You were in a similar position after two rounds at the LPGA championships, what do you have to do differently this time?
 JENNIFER ROSALES:  Well, that's a good question.  I don't know, I see it, if it's for me, it's going to happen for me, no matter what I do.  At McDonald's, nothing happened.  I was patient out there, just couldn't make anything.  So hopefully this weekend will be different.
RHONDA GLENN:  More patient, you mean?
 JENNIFER ROSALES:  Yes, more patient, that's the word here in a Major.
Q.  I noticed except for one year you've done very well in this tournament, in the top-10's, 15, is it just because it suits your game or you just peaked for this week or how does that come about?
 JENNIFER ROSALES:  I love playing on a tough course.  I love playing in an Open, I know it's going to be a tough course.  I love a challenge.  I play for a challenge.  I love being out here and making all those different shots.
Q.  Coming into today you're obviously within striking distance of the top of the leaderboard.  Was your goal to put up a good number or were you looking to play solid and make the cut?
 JENNIFER ROSALES:  I didn't think I was going to go this low today.  My game plan was to hit fairways, because yesterday I missed a lot of fairways, I couldn't get to the hole.  Today I hit a lot and just attacked the hole.  It turned out to be a pretty good round today and my putting was unbelievable today, so I'm pretty happy today.
RHONDA GLENN:  Yesterday she hit 7 of 14 possible fairways and today she hit 12.
Q.  You seem calm and relaxed all the time, is that something you've always had on the golf course?
 JENNIFER ROSALES:  Well, trying to.  I was just having fun out there with my caddy and we were just taking our time, because sometimes I'm rushing it, that's when I make mistakes.  So this morning my routine changed a little bit, I was trying not to rush a shot, when I'm sure, then to hit it.  I took my time a little bit today.
Q.  You mentioned outside that the greens were soft.  Do you expect them to firm up over the weekend?
 JENNIFER ROSALES:  Well, I think so, because I think it's going to be pretty hot the weekend.  I'm not sure of the weather-wise, but it's going to get harder each day.
Q.  You said that winning this year shows you can win out here but I'm wondering what else you learned about yourself in the process of being at a point where you can win a tournament.  Did you find any answers to your game or your mindset or your temperament that you think will help you win this weekend?
 JENNIFER ROSALES:  Experience-wise.  I mean last year when I lost in the playoff, I had a winning putt about 8 feet and I missed it.  I was just too excited.  But when I won this year it gave me that experience and I took it slow.  I took my time and made that putt on 18.  And so that gave me confidence and experience.  Now I know how to handle that pressure.
RHONDA GLENN:  When you missed the putt that you're referring to, what tournament was that in?
 JENNIFER ROSALES:  That was in Giant Eagle -- Youngstown, Ohio.
RHONDA GLENN:  Great round.  Good luck tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT