WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: ROUND ONE
March 5, 2006
Yung-Chi Chen
Hua Wei Lin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Mr. Chen, you had a great game today, how would you describe your experience here in the WBC and perhaps your hopes looking into the 2006 season? 
 YUNG-CHI CHEN:  For me, the game today was very meaningful.  That is because I could play against Korea, Japan, teams with great pitching staffs. 
 As for the 2006 season, I want to leave a good record like I did in the latter half of last year. 
 Q.  Looking back at the games, can you give an overall comment for this event, and how did your pitchers do? 
 HUA-WEI LIN:  Well, looking back to the games we played, we didn't get a good result that we wanted.  We wanted to get the point earlier than the opposing team. 
 My comment on my pitchers would be, some of our pitchers, were not used to this international event and they didn't do as well as they usually would.  They are still young.  They are inexperienced, so I guess they were not good enough to bring out the best that they have got.  I hope in the future they can do as good as they always do, even in the international games in the future. 
 Q.  As for the batting, do you have some theme that you would like to challenge in the future? 
 HUA-WEI LIN:  Well, in terms of batting, we had problems.  We have to work hard on this.  We're lacking power.  We should be for powerful.  When we oppose against good pitchers with good breaking balls, our batters could not hit as well as they wished to. 
 The level of Chinese Taipei baseball should be higher than it is right now, and these would be our next challenges, in terms of batting.  We will try hard, and I'm sure each batter has learned the next thing they have to challenge and they will try hard on them. 
 Q.  When you played against Korea, if you didn't have the pitching regulations, maybe could you have played the game in a different manner.  Second, question, what do you think about the 65-ball regulation for the Asian round? 
 HUA-WEI LIN:  If we didn't have this regulation of 65 balls, I'm sure we would have played some different games.  Maybe we would have had more of a chance to win.  Well, I can imagine that. 
 But the 65-ball regulation rule would obviously influence our pitchers, but that goes for all of the pitchers for all of the teams.  So in a way, how I should use any pitchers is a big question, and I'm sure all of the other managers have the same question to answer for themselves. 
 The World Baseball Classic has just begun, and maybe we will learn there will be some room to improve the whole tournament as we look back to the tournament later. 
 Q.  Your one WBC win came against China, talk about what that means to Chinese Taipei baseball. 
 HUA-WEI LIN:  This is the first WBC ever.  It was so meaningful that we were able to participate to begin with, and we were able to win against China, and this is an historical win for us.  This game was our only victory throughout the three games. 
 I'm glad it was an historical win to end the tournament for us. 
 YUNG-CHI CHEN:  We could win against China; for us, this will be a good memory.  Since this is the first WBC ever, it's been a great memorial event for us all. 
 Q.  According to my figures, you had a Grand Slam home run, three doubles, one to left field, one to center field, one to right field, five runs batted in, is this the best offensive production you've had in your career in a game? 
 YUNG-CHI CHEN:  Well, today, I didn't think too much before I went into the batter's box.  And that was the feeling that I had before the game, and it turned out to be good. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT