WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: ROUND ONE
March 4, 2006
Hua Wei Lin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  The pitcher, Mr. Matsuzaka, what was your preparation towards him and how well did you do after the preparation?   
 HUA-WEI LIN:  As for the pitcher, Mr. Matsuzaka, he pitched -- we got information to be prepared for his pitching, but as a result, we failed to hit his balls.   
  Q.  You guys were eliminated from the possibility of advancing to the next round, talk about how that affects you going into the game against China tomorrow, obviously one of the two teams to come out of the weekend without a win, talk about the motivation to make sure that Chinese Taipei is not that team.   
 HUA-WEI LIN:  Well, we got the result now.  What we felt we did today, I'll make sure it will not affect the game tomorrow.  We will have strong motivation as we play another game tomorrow.  We have the spirits of athletic people, sportsmen, and I feel happy for Japan and Korea as they are now the representatives.   
 Some players, good some players, did not participate in our team for the Asian round.  Yes, there were some influences, I admit.  How big of an influence if you ask me is how hard to make it clear.  But in actuality, yes, there was an influence.   
  Q.  How was their performance today, Chinese Taipei?   
 HUA-WEI LIN:  Our team, I think they did their best today but it was not as good as I thought it would be because the opposing team was much better than what we imagined.  The Chinese Taipei team learned that we have to make a lot more effort to win against today's opponent.   
  Q.  A situation that would have been more conducive to Chinese Taipei pulling off the upset tonight would have been a low-scoring game, and the three-run home run in the first inning sort of seemed to indicate that things were not really heading in this way.  Talk about what you thought and just how is that quick three-run strike in the first inning, you guys had not even hit yet and you were already down.  Talk about how that affected your team, please.   
 HUA-WEI LIN:  Well, we lost three points in the first inning.  I'm sure there has been some influence on us in the game tonight.   
 Well, I changed several pitchers, but they could not pitch well enough so that they can't hit.  The three-run homer indicated to us that this is going to be a tough match.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT