HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2007
Mi Hyun Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How did you hurt your back? 
 MI HYUN KIM:  I woke up in the morning, sore in my back, I don't know what happened.  After the morning, my shots were a little bit funny.  So I didn't play good in the morning match play. 
 Then after that, after lunchtime, you know, I take some kind of pill and that's helping a little bit. 

 Q.  Is it hurting now? 
 MI HYUN KIM:  Yeah, a little bit.  Because after the match, you know, three or four hours. 

 Q.  Is it tight? 
 MI HYUN KIM:  Sore, I don't know. 

 Q.  Which part of your game did it hurt the most or what was most difficult? 
 MI HYUN KIM:  The swing.  I couldn't hit it very clean in the morning.  In the afternoon match play, I was like 5-under.  So Kimmie is tough.  My shots were good and short game was good. 

 Q.  So you played well this afternoon? 
 MI HYUN KIM:  Yeah. 

 Q.  Isn't it hard after you've played 18 in the morning and you lose that match and you have no chance of lifting the trophy at the end to get yourself ready to go back out and play another match? 
 MI HYUN KIM:  No, not really.  I'm very happy to play for my place right now, third.  I'm happy to get that and actually a lot of good players played here this week, and to finish in the Top 3 is good. 
 So I'm happy to play the last match. 

 Q.  Is it hard to go out in the afternoon and play as well as you did and pretty much lead the whole way? 
 MI HYUN KIM:  Maybe, maybe not. 

 Q.  How about the fact that you had your own little cheering section, even though it was a consolation match, you had plenty of people following you around.  Does that help? 
 MI HYUN KIM:  Yeah, because a lot of people came here and were cheering me, and I thought we would follow son huh Lee, because she has the chance for a win.  But many people, many more can people were following me and cheering me and that helped a lot. 

 Q.  Did you ever think of not playing because of your back? 
 MI HYUN KIM:  No.  I never give up.  LPGA. 

 Q.  The prize money, is that also a motivating thing? 
 MI HYUN KIM:  No, not really.  Just I don't want to give up, you know.  I don't want to give up.  I'm kind of a little -- this is kind of an Invitational tournament, so I don't want to upset the sponsor or the Korean people here watching us play.  So, I want to play. 

 Q.  Are you planning to have any treatment done to your back? 
 MI HYUN KIM:  No. 

 Q.  Will you have somebody look at your back? 
 MI HYUN KIM:  My mom. 

 Q.  Will you be able to play this week in France? 
 MI HYUN KIM:  Yes, definitely. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT