LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 27, 2007
Mi Hyun Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PAM WARNER:  Mi-Hyun, thanks for joining us.  You had a good round out there.  A few bogeys toward the end, but 17-under and finished second.  Talk about the tournament this week.   
 MI-HYUN KIM:  I had good feeling this week before when I -- at tournament, you know, I feel like I can get win this week.   
 But my putter is not working today still, so I missed a lot of birdie chance.  And then after birdie chance No. 14, then I have 3-putt and after that, a lot of bogeys.   
 And you know what, second is still good, but I feel a little sad, upset about that.   
 PAM WARNER:  Can we go over your scorecard?   
 MI-HYUN KIM:  Okay.  No. 2, 6-iron.  I didn't make the green and chip shot in front of the green, two feet.   
 5, 6-iron fifteen feet, 2-putt.   
 PAM WARNER:  Birdie on 10.   
 MI-HYUN KIM:  Gap wedge, 5 feet.   
 PAM WARNER:  Birdie on 12.   
 MI-HYUN KIM:  Sand wedge, 7 feet.   
 PAM WARNER:  Bogey on 14.   
 MI-HYUN KIM:  Pitching wedge 12 feet, 3-putt.   
 PAM WARNER:  12 feet you said?   
 MI-HYUN KIM:  Yeah, I missed the green.  On No. 16 I missed the green on the right side and then chipping like 5 feet.   
 PAM WARNER:  Questions.   
  
  Q.  Three weeks ago you came into the final round almost in the same position you were in this week.  You were in second place behind a bunch of people and ended up winning that.  Did you have the kind of feeling that it was almost set up the same way for you this week?   
 MI-HYUN KIM:  You know, three weeks ago, my putter is so -- my putter was very well, so I have -- at that time I had confidence when I play putting, or shots.   
 I feel more confidence then, much confidence.  But today even when I birdie at the Par 5, I have eagle chance at the No. 5, but I missed the putt.   
 And you know I have too many birdie chance today but didn't make any putts, so I'm kind of a little upset about my putter.   
  
  Q.  After the 3-putt on 14, did that kind of carry over to the rest of the round?  Did that kind of put a cloud over your head?   
 MI-HYUN KIM:  Yeah.  Because No. 13, you know pretty tough hole.  The pin position is right side, back pin.  But my second shot was very well.  Every second shot was very well today.   
 But that was only 6 feet uphill putt, but I missed -- after I missed that, you know, I'm kind of a little upset.   
 And then No. 14, today it was my putting every time it was short, so even downhill putts.  After 14, you know, that kind of a little downhill putt, I feel like I have to hit it.   
 I have to hit it and then ball rolling over, over, and over, and next few putts, and next putt was short again.   
  
  Q.  You talked about yesterday that you noticed your knee was feeling it.  It was warm pretty much most of the day.  Did your knee hold up pretty well throughout the day?  Was that an issue?   
 MI-HYUN KIM:  I took the pill when I play, so it was a little help for me.  But I don't know, it was lucky today in the weather was lucky.   
 My knee is a little bit better today.   
  
  Q.  Just talk about Young went out and got her first career win today and you all went out and showered her.  That same thing happened to you I think a few weeks ago.  Talk about the camaraderie there is here amongst the Korean players.   
 MI-HYUN KIM:  Young Kim, she's number one practice hard player, even Korean.  She was here maybe almost six years but she never win even she practice hard.   
 So I'm very -- I'm upset with my putter, but I'm happy that she win this tournament.   
  
  Q.  Are a lot of the Korean players fairly close and kind of hang out together kind of root each other on?   
 MI-HYUN KIM:  Yeah, uh-huh.  You know, she's like kind of a little much younger than me, you know, 26, four years younger than me, so actually I'm not hang out with her.  But still, like kind of we have a friendship with her.   
 Everybody, you know, we go to the movie theater or eat together and we go Korean restaurants.  So when Korean people won tournament, we just try to do things.   
  
  Q.  I'm not sure if you're aware, but yourself and Paula were the only players coming into this week who had won this season and were in the Top 10.  Does that speak to the depth of the LPGA tournament, that you two were both in second and she kind of comes out and wins this tournament?   
 MI-HYUN KIM:  You know what, we never guessed who was going win, you know.  We don't know who's going win.  Even Paula play good; I play good.   
 Young never has win, but we never know.  Every week we never know.  Everybody play so well in LPGA player, so everybody have a chance to win.   
 We -- you know, when we ceremony on 18th green Paula told me, you know, she only two times she hit the fairway today.   
 So each day the condition is different and shot is different.  You know, yesterday every time we he cab hit the fairway and next day we missed it like ten times the fairway, so we never know who's going win.   
  
  Q.  Going into next week, are you going to work on your putter?   
 MI-HYUN KIM:  Yeah, I have to.  I have to.  Even my mind is, you know, not strong today.  After missing a lot of putt my mind is like -- when I on the green, you know, I'm not strong with my putt.   
  
  Q.  Do you think it was more mental than mechanical?   
 MI-HYUN KIM:  Kind of, because, you know, I missed a lot of slice putts, you know.  So maybe mental is a problem.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT