LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 23, 2007
Mi Hyun Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PAM WARNER:  Thanks for joining us today.  You won your eighth career title a few weeks ago at the SemGroup Championship in Tulsa.   
 After your win you decided to donate half of the winnings, $100,000, to the United Way of Greensboro Disaster Fund.  Can you just start by talking about your win and the donation you made?   
 MI HYUN KIM:  It was a long time ago.  The course was so long for me because I'm not a long hitter.  So that win is a surprise for me.   
 So because I'm not a long hitter I thought only a long hitter can win that tournament, but not after that.   
 That was very big gift to me, you know, somebody, God give to me, that win.  I have to help, you know, other people who had the tornado in Kansas.  I have to help them there.  I have to give back when that happened, so that's why I donate.   
  
  Q.  Have you had a chance to play the course yet this week, and if so how is the course playing out there this week?   
 MI HYUN KIM:  I practice nine hole yesterday and course was so dry.  So, you know, most the tournaments we had rain a lot.  The course was so soaked before, but I think the course was dry and greens was a little fast and firmer.   
 And the course is short and tight, so I like this kind of course.  I think after nine hole I play pretty good, and if I have good commission I have a chance to win.   
 PAM WARNER:  Questions.   
  
  Q.  Are you feeling comfortable on the course like this?  Does it suit your game more   
 MI HYUN KIM:  The first couple par 5 I cannot reach the tee shot on the green.  Most course I never can reach out on the green at par 5.   
 But long hitter can reach the green and they have a chance to eagle and make birdie, but I can't do that.   
 Same way at this course.  Feel more comfortable.   
  
  Q.  They have lengthened a few holes out here.  Have you noticed a difference?   
 MI HYUN KIM:  Some hole.  You know, I really like the back 9.  Par 5, 12, make longer where I can reach the green, and I think just only couple player can reach the green.   
 But before when they short and I can't reach the green I can reach tee shot on the green par 5.  A lot of people can't reach the greens, so it's more good for me.   
  
  Q.  Why did you withdraw last week?   
 MI HYUN KIM:  (From translation) Knee problem, left knee.  I've been having a problem with the left knee for a while, and when the weather is kind of cold and bad it gets a little worse.   
  
  Q.  You have had a lot of success out here on Tour.  Do you believe you are one of the favorites out here this week?   
 MI HYUN KIM:  (From translation) I believe that golf tournament is unpredictable as far as winning and then losing goes.   
 And then I been playing on the tour, LPGA Tour, for nine years, and the way that golf works is even though you're the best player in the world and you go to the tournament and somebody else might win, and, you know, even though they been playing so well and other tournament they might go there and they're cut.   
 So if you can predict the golf, you know, it doesn't work.   
  
  Q.  You were among the first Korean wave of players to play on the LPGA Tour.  Now there are so many Korean players out here, what do you attribute that to? I've heard that it is hard for Koreans to get tee times with the amount of courses and it sounds like it is male dominated there?   
 MI HYUN KIM:  (From a translation) I think that it's always hard to start for the first time.  Once you start doing so, and it's always easy for the second person to follow that step.   
 When I first came in here, there were few Koreans, and obviously it was very hard for me to adjust.  But for the girls, because we start coming in here and become a lot of successful golfers, they saw it and they said, Hey, I can do that too.  So they start coming in and thinking that they can come here.   
 And if you are going out to the putting greens there's now 40-plus Korean girls on the greens.  So they feel more comfortable playing amongst themselves also compared to having one Koreans and 140 other nonKoreans on the putting green.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT