MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 10, 2007
Mi Hyun Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN:  7-under 64 today, you're one out of the lead held by Sarah Lee at 8-under.  Can you tell us about how you played today, please?   
 MI-HYUN KIM:  I had a lot of good shot on the course, because I won last week, I feel very comfortable with my swing and short game.  I had confidence a lot.   
 So especially I like this course.  I played good every year, almost every year, so whenever a course is long I feel like I can't, but I play good today.   
  
  Q.  Are you surprised at all that someone shot 63?   
 MI-HYUN KIM:  Yeah, because even my score is very high I thought.  But in the morning on the practice putting green, I saw the scoreboard, someone through three holes or four holes, they were already 3-under, 4-under.  So I thought maybe today, people make a pretty high score.   
  
  Q.  Is there momentum carrying over from last weekend into the week for you, the last tournament?   
 MI-HYUN KIM:  Actually, you know, last week is a very surprise for me that winning score is 3-under, it was a surprise.  And actually, I thought, you know, any longer player would get a win last week but I'm lot a longer player.  With the wind it was hard on Sunday and Saturday, so that's why, you know, some people played bad.   
 So I had a lot of luck last week, but after the win I have more confidence.   
  
  Q.  When you see low scores, like 3-under after three holes or four holes, does that change your approach at all?  Does it make you more aggressive?   
 MI-HYUN KIM:  You know, I'm not -- after three holes, I'm just 1-under, right?   
  
  Q.  No, when you see on the scoreboard.   
 MI-HYUN KIM:  I don't know, just my goal is 4-under today in the morning.  I just said, okay, I want to try to shoot 4-under today.  But after nine holes, already 3-under and after ten holes, 4-under, okay, I make one more.  And then after, one more; and I'm like, okay, try one more.  So just keep doing, you know, trying to do my best.   
  
  Q.  You've finished in the Top-10 each of the four years here.  What about this course do you like so much?   
 MI-HYUN KIM:  Actually I like the greens.  They are true, when I read the putt, because physically I cannot do read and stroke putt.  That's why my short game is more easier here.  I like the fairway grass here.  I don't know what kind of grass is here.  And then when I set up the club, I don't know why, but I have more confidence.   
  
  Q.  Was the course playing as easy today as any time that you remember?   
 MI-HYUN KIM:  Easier than before, yeah.   
  
  Q.  Why is that?   
 MI-HYUN KIM:  Used to be greens firm, very hard, but I don't know, today very softer than before.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Thanks a lot.  Good luck this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT