GINN OPEN
April 10, 2007
Mi Hyun Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE:  You won this tournament last year and it was your first win in four years, what does that mean, the win last year, and coming back to this course?   
 MI HYUN KIM:  When I won this tournament, I thought I would never win again in the LPGA.  After Thursday, I was so nervous and I really wanted to win this tournament, so I was praying long time (ph) and when I go to bed, so maybe God helping me a lot.   
  
  Q.  Why did you think you would never win on the LPGA?   
 MI HYUN KIM:  Because the courses are getting longer and wider, so it feels like better for long hitters.  Every course is getting too good for long hitter.  But I can't hit far, so maybe it plays too hard for me.  I feel like getting loser (not finishing high) and I feel like I can't get a win anymore.   
  
  Q.  (About increasing length.)   
 MI HYUN KIM:  You know what, I try to work out a lot and then changing the swing a little bit.  So that's a little bit helping me for distance.  But still, I can't hit far.   
  
  Q.  What has changed and how do you think it's possible that you can win?  What are the other strong parts of your game?   
 MI HYUN KIM:  My swing is still bigger than other players and my swing used to be -- my swing is like, everybody say, looks like John Daly.  Backswing is very, you know, big.  My swing teacher wants me to be little more compact swing, little shorter backswing and more hidden at impact, so that's a little bit helping with distance.   
  
  Q.  Is there any extra pressure this week?   
 MI HYUN KIM:  (Giggling) No, many people called me, "Oh, you're in the picture on Sand Lake, and I saw your picture on the Reunion."  Okay, I saw that, too.  (Laughing)  I don't know, I'm not swinging well, you know, and then I feel -- I like this course.  I really want so win again, but I don't know, let me try.  But definitely I have pressure.   
  
  Q.  Have you practiced here?   
 MI HYUN KIM:  I've been here since yesterday, first time after last year.   
  
  Q.  How is the course this week?   
 MI HYUN KIM:  A little bit different than last year, a little softer, I don't know why.  A little softer, and last year I think my memory, the greens were a little firmer and the fairways were firmer, too.  I have more distance but when I practiced yesterday, I hit a little shorter.  So that means I think the fairways are a little softer, too.   
  
  Q.  Talk about what this win did for you last year confidence-wise?  It was such a grind last year and the final round was very compact; It wasn't a great scoring in the final round last year, and yet you hung on.  Just what does that do for you emotionally and your confidence level?   
 MI HYUN KIM:  I have more confidence.  So there are a lot of good players coming this year, too, a lot of good rookies and a lot of younger players playing good this year beginning of the season.   
 I don't know, I'm happy that I won last year and I'm happy with the title, but I tried to this year get a win but I don't want to, you know, put pressure on myself.   
  
  Q.  Being here, just looking down the road, what is your feeling about the tournament?   
 MI HYUN KIM:  Because my picture is on the road and I have a lot of friends call me, "I'm watching your game this week and cheering for you."  I don't know, I'm happy with that.   
  
  Q.  Tournaments like this where virtually everybody is here, does that almost -- and a course like this, is it almost kind of a major feel?   
 MI HYUN KIM:  I think so, because the purse is a lot high, and then almost -- I think almost all of the good players are playing here, too, top players.  So it feels like a little bit of a major tournament.   
  
  Q.  We've got Morgan coming in here later, which is why I'm asking you this, when you were 18, would it have been in your wildest dreams to win a major at any point in your life, and if you had that kind of success that young, how do you think you would have handled it?   
 MI HYUN KIM:  When I was 18 years old, nobody played here -- there were no Korean players in the LPGA.  So I never thought about LPGA majors.  But when I was 18, I was an amateur and I won an invite at the Korean LPGA tournament, so I won there.  I don't know.  I never think about that in U.S. LPGA.   
  
  Q.  At any level that you're playing at when you're that young and you're 18 and winning, whether it's anywhere in the world.   
 MI HYUN KIM:  When I and Se Ri were amateurs back in Korea, there were a lot of good Korean young players who played also on the LPGA.  When Se Ri won professional event as an amateur, obviously there were a lot of expectations, so I thought that, okay, too, I need to go out there and win and I went out to do that and I got invited to Korean LPGA and I won the event.  And then it was just back and forth, back and forth, and obviously it's great to have a win as an amateur or when you're 18, but I just thought, you know, either you have to win or you have to go home.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT