GINN CLUBS & RESORTS OPEN
April 29, 2006
Mi Hyun Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Thanks for coming and speaking with us again.  It seemed like    the 18th hole, you birdied it and Ai took a double bogey.  Now instead of being tied for the lead you have a three shot lead going into tomorrow.  Talk about your day and we'll take some questions.
MI HYUN KIM:  When I tied with Ai, I feel a little bit upset because I can't make the birdie at the 17th hole because the hole is an easier hole.  But I have a little skippy second shot.  My second shot, I pulled it, and then in the bunker.

And then my third shot, not going to go out of the bunker.  But a little bit lucky at the fourth shot maybe.  My bunker shot is like 40 yards from the pin, but like almost one foot, two feet from the pin.  So that was a little bit lucky.

Then at the 18th hole, I think    my thinking is I have to make birdie at this hole because that hole is a little long, but it's really downwind at that time, just only 120 yards from the pin second shot.  So I just a little more concentrate at the second shot, so I just think, "I have to make birdie, I have to make birdie," just kept reminding.

When I made the birdie, maybe I have a little bit of pressure in holing the putt, maybe that's why she made a double.
Q.  How difficult was today to concentrate and keep your game together in this wind?  Was it a difficult day?
MI HYUN KIM:  I think the whole three days were difficult because every time the wind switched, you know.  Sometimes the wind look like left to right and sometimes it looks like right to left, and sometimes when I think into the wind and I take one more club, I take one more club, and when I set up the wind switches and it's a little bit more downwind sometimes.

At the 16th hole, par 3, the pin is almost touching the ground looks like before I hit.  When I set up at address, when I set up, pin is not going to move.  So I changed the aim.  But when I hit the wind took my ball really left of the green.

So a little bit difficult because the course is long and the wind is every time switching.
Q.  At 11 under par you must be doing something right, though, even with the difficulty.  What's working for you this week?
MI HYUN KIM:  I just change a little bit the swing, a little more compact swing.  But I don't know, I think everybody sees my swing is bigger than other people's.  Right now I have more confidence with my swing and my short game, and especially I like this course.
Q.  When is the last time you feel like you played this well for three days in a row?  Has it been years out here?  It's been a while since you've won.  When was the last tournament that you thought you had played this well for three days, three consecutive days?
MI HYUN KIM:  Just this week.
Q.  Were you surprised at what happened with Miyazako on the last hole when you guys went in there dead tied and you came out a few minutes later with a three shot swing?
MI HYUN KIM:  You know, after I made a birdie, then I don't care about the other people.  Just, ooh, I can make birdie, I can make birdie.  I'm so happy I made a birdie.

But when I turned around and looked at Ai Miyazako, her second shot is really long, maybe she hit too hard.  These greens, even putting, the green took the ball a lot, so you have to be careful on the short putts.  Maybe she have more pressure.
Q.  Did you develop your long swing, big swing, in an effort to be able to get enough distance to be able to compete on the Tour?  And do you do anything else like with equipment like maybe an extra long driver to try to get more distance?
MI HYUN KIM:  I did.  Last year I did 47 inch driver, but when I see the swing, my head is almost touching the ground.  That looks so funny even to me.  But that driver    a longer driver is a little more helping for distance, but not accuracy.  So I changed back to normal driver.
Q.  What do you use, 44, 45?
MI HYUN KIM:  45.  Still long, 45, something like that.  And then my    to me I have to try to get a little swing better for distance, longer.  I just tried to change.
Q.  It's probably been a while, I guess, since you played in the final group on the final day.  Will you be nervous tomorrow, or are all those wins you had a few years ago enough to where you don't worry about that stuff anymore?
MI HYUN KIM:  You know what, I'm nervous every day before I tee off, but after I tee off, I forget about that.  I just think about playing and trying to do my best, especially this week.  Today in the morning my brother's baby was born, today in the morning.
Q.  You're an aunt?
MI HYUN KIM:  Yes, Aunt Kimmy.  I'm so happy with that.  I'm so happy over that because I think our family was waiting for that baby almost three years, so today in the morning, a little bit unfocused on my game because I'm so happy I'm Auntie Kimmy.
Q.  Will you enjoy going to bed with a three stroke lead?  Is it more pressure or less pressure with the lead?
MI HYUN KIM:  Less pressure.  You know, three shot lead is much, much better than tie score or something like that.  I have a little bit of luck, and my caddie every day he went to church, he prayed about my win, you know, so maybe God will be answering.
Q.  How many times did he go to church?
MI HYUN KIM:  Like three times this week already, and he said he will go tonight, too.
Q.  Have you ever played with Ai Miyazako?
MI HYUN KIM:  The first time playing with her, yeah, first time.
Q.  How do you think about her?
MI HYUN KIM:  She is more accuracy player than other players.  She's farther than me, and then she plays like me, not much bogey and not much    like she doesn't    she hits far, but she's more good accuracy.  She plays good.
Q.  Do you have confidence to beat her tomorrow?  What do you think your chances are tomorrow playing with Ai in the final group?
MI HYUN KIM:  You know what, a three shot lead, it's more easy to me, I think, to    today is pretty difficult playing with this wind on this course, you know, but I have only one bogey.  So I just want to keep playing like that, playing like today.  I'm just planning to do my best.
THE MODERATOR:  Take us over your scorecard.  You birdied No. 4.
MI HYUN KIM:  No. 4, 125 yard 8 iron, tap in.

No. 7, short par 4, 70 yards, sand wedge, six feet.

No. 10, the par 5, from 30 yards I couldn't make it on the green.  At the fringe and like 30 feet.
THE MODERATOR:  Was it front right?
MI HYUN KIM:  No, just short and maybe 30 feet.
THE MODERATOR:  And you made that from the fringe?
MI HYUN KIM:  Yes, putted it.
THE MODERATOR:  Bogey.
MI HYUN KIM:  20 yards left, chip with a sand wedge to 30 feet, two putt.
THE MODERATOR:  Birdie on 18?  You said it was 120 yards.
MI HYUN KIM:  125 yards, 9 iron to like three feet.
Q.  Can you just tell us your brother's name and whether the baby is a boy or a girl?
MI HYUN KIM:  Boy, and my brother's name is Min Seok Kim.
Q.  Is he older or younger?
MI HYUN KIM:  Older.  It's his first baby, yeah.
Q.  Why have you been waiting three years?
MI HYUN KIM:  I like a baby.  When I'm young, like a teenager, I'm always a babysitter, always babysitter other babies, neighbor baby or my cousin's baby.  I like the babies.

After he married, I always tell them, oh, when you guys thinking about the baby, what are you thinking about the baby.  They tried three years ago, but they didn't.
Q.  So you were putting pressure on your brother to have a baby?
MI HYUN KIM:  Yes.
Q.  What did you use on the shot out of the bunker?
MI HYUN KIM:  Like an A wedge, middle wedge.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT