GINN CLUBS & RESORTS OPEN
April 28, 2006
Mi Hyun Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thanks for coming in and speaking with us, right now for the tournament you're at 8 under par and you have a one shot lead.  Can you tell us what worked for you the best today, and then we'll take some questions.
MI HYUN KIM:  You know what, I changed the swing a little bit last week and then this week it was, you know, I feel uncomfortable, still uncomfortable with my swing, but, you know, it was working on the course.  Before, you know, when I start, I told my mom, you know, my swing is not working and my putting is not uncomfortable, but it was working on course.  My tee shot, the swing was working, so it was a surprise to me, my score.
Q.  You've played so well here your first couple of years on Tour and now it's been a couple of years since you won, have you been disappointed by that?  Has there been any single thing that's kept you from winning here the last couple of years?
MI HYUN KIM:  You know, when I came here the first time, the course is kind of short and tight.  Right now, you know, they change it a little more, the course is like longer and wide, I don't know why.

You know what I'm not here long, so like a little bit of pressure when I practice at home, when I see the course and I was trying, trying, trying every time and then changing swing because I want more distance.

Right now my new coach has told me, my swing is too big; I need more short backswing and then, yeah, I need more short backswing, it was working for acceleration to my impact.  I still trying.
Q.  Who is your coach?
MI HYUN KIM:  Brian Mogg.
Q.  Who is taller, you or Ai Miyazato?
MI HYUN KIM:  I don't know.  I don't know.  Anyway, I'm 5'1.  But I don't know.
Q.  How much of an influence did Se Ri have on you, if any, and did her success early so many years ago now inspire you at all?
MI HYUN KIM:  She is one year faster than me I think.  I don't know, before when she came here, the LPGA we think LPGA is too high here like Annika, you know, I never beat Annika or Betsy King, they are still our heroes.  But when Se Ri came here and she beat everybody and she won the U.S. Open and she won a lot of major tournaments, then I think, you know, oh, maybe I can do that.  So that's why I came here.
Q.  So she almost made it easier to think that you could have success here.
MI HYUN KIM:  Yeah, yeah.
Q.  You mentioned that the courses now are longer and wider; that would seem to also apply to this week, as well, it's 6,550 yards and the fairways are pretty I'd, and you're sort of more the accuracy person, but you're on top of the leaderboard.
MI HYUN KIM:  You know what, this course is long for me, but, you know, fairways are very dry right now.  So a little more roll, that was helping me, too.  Still, I have a lot of fairway wood shots.  But my swing is working, it's okay.
Q.  What's in your bag right now?
MI HYUN KIM:  Driver, 4 wood, 3 wood, 5 wood, 7 wood, 9, rescue driver.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
MI HYUN KIM:  5 iron.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Can you take us over your score card?
MI HYUN KIM:  Start on 10.  Wedge, six feet.

11, 125 yards into the wind, 8 iron.  8 iron like 25 feet.

12, 7 iron like seven feet.

Bogey, tee shot in the right rough and laid up, like 30 feet, two putts.

15, 120 yard 8 iron, ten feet.

16, 5 wood, two feet?

Driver into 1, 50 yards, 6 iron, two feet.

5, 7 wood, 9 wood, five feet.

Bogey on 7.  56 yards sand wedge short, chip shot eight feet, 2 putt.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT