SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 3, 2005
Mi Hyun Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL ROVNAK:  Thanks for coming in and speaking with us.  It was a pretty interesting day. I don't think you had a par until your 12th hole.  If you could just talk about how cold it was out there, and if you had to do anything differently.
MI HYUN KIM:  You know, I was, I had flu, cold.  I have a cold so I'm still, headache, cold, hungry.  So I can't even eat at the course.  Too much work, get the towels, got to clean the clubs, too much water.
PAUL ROVNAK:  You withdrew from the Pro Am on Wednesday?
MI HYUN KIM:  Yeah.
PAUL ROVNAK:  How are you feeling now?
MI HYUN KIM:  Before I teed off, I was feeling much better but after we finish, I'm more, you know, sick.
Q.  How difficult was it to play out there, and was the weather the reason your score card was so up and down, birdie, bogey?
MI HYUN KIM:  You know, I'm not hit long.  I'm not a hit far player.  Like No. 10 and No. 1 and No. 6, the hole is almost a par 5 for me, so I have like six par 5s this course.

The wind is so hard sometimes; it's gusting.  It played too difficult for me and I think other players, too.
Q.  Have you ever had a round where you only had three or four pars?
PAUL ROVNAK:  Four.  Two in a row at the end.
Q.  What's it like to be out there?  Birdie, you get it going; and bogey, you make another mistake, what's that like mentally?
MI HYUN KIM:  I had a lot of par chances, chance to make par, but that time I made long putt and make birdie, so I wasn't playing so good.  You know, my putter, short game isn't good and just a couple of holes is too long for me.
Q.  With the conditions out there, did you have to use more club?  What was the distance you're adding to your shots, do you think?
MI HYUN KIM:  I'm using modern 3 wood at the par 4.
Q.  Just in general, would you have to add half a club length to your shots just because of the conditions, the weather?
MI HYUN KIM:  Sometimes downwind.  Sometimes downwind, I just pick the normal club because it's so wet.  But into the wind, I add maybe a couple two, three clubs.
Q.  Not sure if it's true now, but Annika was in the lead.  How difficult is it to catch her on a normal basis when she has the lead on the first day and you have to try to go after her?
MI HYUN KIM:  You know, she's like 40, 50 yards farther than me she hits, so I don't think of Annika.  A lot of players play so good on the LPGA, so I don't know.  We have a chance to win, but Annika, you know, she hits far and she hits solid and she has good mind.  So she has it more easy to get win than us.
Q.  When you say "we have a chance to win," that's you and the rest of the field?
MI HYUN KIM:  Some tournaments, maybe Nabisco, I was playing with her, but I feel like playing with the men.  She's so far and so, you know, accuracy is just so good and she's so far, it feels like playing with a PGA player.
Q.  What do you tell yourself out there when the weather is getting worse and you have four holes to go?  How do you sort of keep in it and keep concentrating on shot to shot when it's so bad out there?
MI HYUN KIM:  I think before start of play, my goal is even par.  So like when I'm 4 under, 3 under, don't matter if I make another bogey.  I just play, you know, more easy and keep trying to do my best.
Q.  When was the last time you were this wet, and when was the last time you were this cold?
MI HYUN KIM:  I think Kingsmill.  Kingsmill this year.  Too many times.  (Laughter).
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT