CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 25, 2011
Mi Hyun Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Okay, we'd like to welcome Mi Hyun Kim to the interview room. Congratulations on your round today. Can you tell me what was working well for and you and take me through the round? 
 MI HYUN KIM: Actually, I had baby in 2009 winter, and after that I didn't play much so I lost a lot of power, and then I'm losing little feel of the golf. 
 But I'm just trying to work out hard since last winter. I had a little problem with my swing, but I changed it. I had a lesson last week and it's working a little bit.
 THE MODERATOR: So the swing style is good today? 
 MI HYUN KIM: Yeah, I hit almost every fairway and tee shot. 
 THE MODERATOR: When you look at the round otherwise, was your putting on today, what else was working really well for you? 
 MI HYUN KIM: Actually I hit good tee shot and actually, I hit not many mistakes, and putting was good, and short game was good. Mentally more confidence with my swing and short game is back. 
 THE MODERATOR: I know there were a lot of predictions for rain today and the weather stayed nice. Did that help with the scoring conditions? 
 MI HYUN KIM: Actually, I thought rain was coming after 2 o'clock or 3:00 o'clock. So I was just trying to have my rain pants on the 18th hole. So it was so hot, you know, but it is better than rain coming. 
 But the wind was a little bit more than normal too. It is a little bit hard, but better than rain coming. 
 THE MODERATOR: A few low scores out there today. How is this course playing, and can you shoot some low numbers out here? 
 MI HYUN KIM: Yeah, actually I just worry in the practice round, I just worry about the ball on the fairways is very muddy, so I just worried about that. But when people start after we'll see. We have prepare, so it helped me (Inaudible) a lot because I'm not a long hitter, but I'm trying to keep to the fairway a lot, and try to get a better lie.

 Q. Were there any turning points for you or something that got you going through your round today? 
 MI HYUN KIM: I don't know. I changed the putter last week, and I'm trying to do a lot with this new putter and it is working good. Then I had a swing coach, he teaches me and Karrie Webb and (Inaudible) and a few other LPGA players. He gives a little tip for my swing, so I'm just trying to change a little bit of the swing, and it is working good. It hits a little farther than before and a little straighter than before.

 Q. Is there one hole that really stuck out for you today? Did you make a really good birdie on one hole? 
 MI HYUN KIM: Actually, the long par three. I don't know what number it is. It's on the front nine. 

 Q. I'd have to look it up. 
 MI HYUN KIM: It was like 195 or something and into the wind. I hit a really good 5-wood, but I made -- the wind was gusting and I tried to -- I just hit the middle of the green, but I made like a 30-foot putt, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT