SYBASE CLASSIC
May 19, 2005
Mi Hyun Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  We have Mi Hyun Kim here in the interview room, 2 under par, 69 today.  Let's go to your score card first.  Birdie at the 12th.
MI HYUN KIM: 187 yards, like two hybrid iron, like twelve feet.
MODERATOR:  Then you got on a roll birdieing four in a row starting at 16.
MI HYUN KIM: 6 iron, one foot.  17, 120 yards, 9 iron, one foot.

18, like 45 yards sand wedge, ten feet.
MODERATOR:  At No. 1.
MI HYUN KIM: 70 yards, mid edge, like twelve feet.
MODERATOR:  Bogey at No. 4.
MI HYUN KIM: 193 yards, 2 iron inside the bunker, I chipped out and then like six feet.
MODERATOR:  Double bogey on 8.
MI HYUN KIM: My driver was on the left side of the rough; hit the green; then it kicked right in the bunker.  I hit bunker shot six foot.
MODERATOR:  2 under par right now is one of the better rounds out of the morning.  Talk a little bit about how you feel about your round.  I know you are disappointed with the double bogey.
MI HYUN KIM: First nine holes I was like feeling very comfortable with my swing and my short game I missed like four feet putt, five feet putt, like a couple of missed the putts like 13, 14.  13th hole, 14th hole, I just missed like five feet, maybe.  So but I am still comfortable with my swing, so I just     I feel very confident after the back nine make birdie at the No. 1, but I     my group is very smooth, some official came to there and they just check the time and they want to push a little bit faster, so my     and then official came to us and went to the timing, so I just keep move faster, faster; then I lose my rhythm.  I just pulled No. 4 shot, No. 4 tee shot I just pulled it and then I lose my rhythm, I lose my swing and then after that make bogey and double bogey.  I am still happy.
MODERATOR:  Questions.
Q.  Did they specifically say who was a slow player or
MI HYUN KIM: No, not really like that.
Q.  The group was slow?
MI HYUN KIM: Yeah, a little bit forced to    par 5 someone tried 2 shot on the green and someone hit lay up and you know, I just No.8     wait.  18th hole, we just wait two shot on the green because front of us they still on the green so we wait a long time and then even No. 1, second shot we have a long time     we wait a long time.  But after two holes they just keep fast.  A little bit changes the rhythm.
Q.  Was it windy out there, did it make picking which club to hit, did you have to think about it a little more?
MI HYUN KIM: No, wind is not really big, but sometimes left to right and then they switch to right to left.  A little bit of confusion, but okay.
Q.  How is the course in terms of firmness and speed of the greens?
MI HYUN KIM: Greens a little bit speedy, a little faster than looks like it.  Greens shape is so good.  I think best of the year of this Tour.  Green looks good, fairway looks good, but a little bit faster than looks like.
MODERATOR: Thank you.  Good luck.
MI HYUN KIM: Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT