KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 24, 2005
Mi Hyun Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL LAMP:  Talk a little about your thoughts right now holding the lead after 18 holes right now.
MI HYUN KIM:  I was changing the driver before maybe Tuesday, trying to hit driver.  Yesterday I didn't play not very well because the driver is a little strong, and today is my ninth day in a row and I was a little tired.  And my driver, every time it goes right and my iron shot goes left.  So I feel like uncomfortable with my club before when I start.

After the second hole, I hit a couple driver and then a few more, I feel more comfortable.  And also, I change the putter three times this week, so that was uncomfortable, too.  I made the putt on No. 3, so I feel more confident with it.  I'm trying to hit my best shot and do my best.
Q.  Did the wind get worse as the day went on?  Were the conditions tougher as your round got deeper?
MI HYUN KIM:  Not before -- before ninth hole, but after nine, the wind, it's very hard after the ninth hole and then a little chilly after, like 15, yeah.

No. 18, I was in the water last year maybe.  It was so hard into the wind last year.  I remember that shot, so I just hit it, pull.  18th hole I was like a little scared of the water, so I just hit a little pull.
Q.  Do you feel like you could have scored lower today?
MI HYUN KIM:  Yeah.
Q.  There were a couple of holes that you could have made birdie on, but you didn't?
MI HYUN KIM:  No, I'm very happy with my score because, you know, I was very -- I played bad yesterday.  I feel sorry to my people I played with because I was maybe 4-over par yesterday.
Q.  Why did you change drivers; longer, more accuracy?
MI HYUN KIM:  The shot is a little stronger before because I was working out a lot this winter.  So I would feel a little stronger and my driver is a little -- when I tried too hard, because all the drivers, they go left every time.  So I went to little strong shot and want to keep more low.
Q.  And you changed putters three times this week?
MI HYUN KIM:  Yeah, this week.
Q.  Is that because you've been putting badly or because the greens needed something?
MI HYUN KIM:  It was bad in a couple of tournaments before this week.  I feel not comfortable so I would change it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT