WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 7, 2003
Mi Hyun Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Thanks for joining us, defending champ.  The course looks like it might play a little different this year.  Can you give us your thoughts on coming back to a place where you have won?
MI HYUN KIM: I'm happy I came back here as the defending champion.  I feel a little different this time, because last year we had dry weather and dry course, but this year is a  -- the course is very wet, so I have to play a different game.  The course is very long to me, but I'm very happy to play. 

Q.  How do you have to play differently this year to compensate for the course conditions? 
MI HYUN KIM: Last year, the fairways were different, so sometimes I try to a 5-wood, but this year, I can't even drive, hit it so hard, you know.

Q.  How far are you hitting it this year?
MI HYUN KIM: Maybe 250, 240.  My tee shots yesterday I hit driver, and it made a back spin on the fairway.

Q.  Can you still stop the ball on the green hitting longer clubs in now?
MI HYUN KIM: Yeah, I think so.

Q.  Are you confident coming in this year or will you have to play well to have a chance?
MI HYUN KIM: Yeah, the greens are slower here than before.  I think they're a little too soaked, you know.

Q.  How has your game changed from last year to this year?
MI HYUN KIM: Last year I made a mental note, and I used a lot of short irons last year, but this year, I used a 7-wood, 9-wood, 5-iron, something like that.  You know what, I like a dry course, and I like faster greens, but I think this course should be longer players are better, I think.

Q.  You seem not to be having as good as a year as you have had in the past?  Has anything changed?
MI HYUN KIM: No, nothing changes.  Like for before years I had a great year, but this year, I think we haven't finished yet this season, so I'm just trying to do my best and think about my game and trying to do a good shot and good putt.  I have a problem with my short game this year.

Q.  Short game chipping or putting?
MI HYUN KIM: Putting.

Q.  Last year you had a translator with you and now you are here by yourself.  Are you trying to learns English more?
MI HYUN KIM: No, I just try now.  I know that my English is bad.

Q.  No, it's good.
MI HYUN KIM: I have been trying and trying.  I need to translator today, but I couldn't find one.  I made a little note in the morning with my sister.  She speaks good English, so I asked her and made a little note.

Q.  You're doing very, very well.
MI HYUN KIM: Thank you.

Q.  So, is this the first time in a setting like this that you worked without a translator?
MI HYUN KIM: I think so.

Q.  Good job.  When you came in here, were you a little scared about this?
MI HYUN KIM: Yeah, I asked if they had a TV in here.  I'm scared on the TV interview.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT