WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 4, 2002
Mi Hyun Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR:  Can we go over the score card. 
MI HYUN KIM:  I don't remember.  No.  1, 130 yards, 7-iron. 
MODERATOR:  Okay. 
MI HYUN KIM:  Just a little long of the green.  So I just hit chipping sand wedge. 
12, I made a bogey. 
No.  5, 7-iron, 130 yards, 7-iron. 
MODERATOR:  Okay. 
MI HYUN KIM:  Six feet. 
MODERATOR:  Six feet, okay. 
MI HYUN KIM:  7, I shoot a 6-iron, 140 yards.  I just hit little skinny, little skinny, in the water (laughter), 60 yards.  Six feet, I made the bogey. 
MODERATOR:  Six feet? 
MI HYUN KIM:  Yes. 
No.  9, 3-wood, second shot. 
MODERATOR:  3-wood. 
MI HYUN KIM:  In the bunker.  I hit the bunker shot maybe six feet. 
MODERATOR:  10.
MI HYUN KIM:  8-iron, 120 yards, 10 feet. 
MODERATOR:  10 feet? 
MI HYUN KIM:  Yes. 
MODERATOR:  17, double bogey. 
MI HYUN KIM:  I used a 5-iron, 148 yards.  I just try to hit little smooth because wind is gusting.  I hit short in the water.
MODERATOR:  Short, okay.  Did you have to go back to the tee?
MI HYUN KIM:  Yes. 
MODERATOR:  Mi Hyun, congratulations.  Your second win in two weeks in Ohio.  Can you talk about your round today. 
MI HYUN KIM:  I just keep (inaudible) today.  I did hit good.  Putting is good.  But I missed a couple putts.  You know, I think I did play good today. 
MODERATOR:  You did play good? 
MI HYUN KIM:  Yeah. 
MODERATOR:  Are you ready to go to the British now? 
MI HYUN KIM:  Yes. 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Mi Hyun. 
Q.  Could you talk about your feeling on winning this championship, what it means to you to win another championship, two in three weeks. 
MI HYUN KIM:  What is mean? 
MODERATOR:  Yes. 
MI HYUN KIM:  When I been here, Columbus, Ohio, playing, I just feel a little bit confidence.  I play confidence because when I was here, I play  -- every time, I play good.  You know, I hit good.  I like this area, greens quick and fast.  I just a little bit feel confidence. 

Q.  On 17 when you hit your shot, were you trying for the pin or were you trying to hit to the center of the green?
MI HYUN KIM:  First time I just try center green.  When I set up, I change the mind.  You know, I think that it's the right club.  I change the mind, little bit change the stance.  Wind is gusting that time.  I didn't think that ball is short.

Q.  Did you think that the ruling you received was the correct ruling? 
MI HYUN KIM:  I don't know.  He say he never see that.  He never see the bounce.  But cameraman say ball doesn't hit the grass. 
You know, player, me, my caddie, gallery, everybody say hit the grass and come back the water.  Only cameraman say short of the green.

Q.  How nervous were you on the second shot back on the tee then? 
MI HYUN KIM:  You know, I just try the same club that time because I think that club is the right club.  But, you know, I just a little bit nervous because, first of all, I never think that ball is short.  But, you know, I try to hit hard. 
Second shot, same, hit a little skinny, you know.  I thought that ball is short. 
MODERATOR:  Short? 
MI HYUN KIM:  Yeah.  I say, "Go." 

Q.  What about 18?  You overshot the pin on 18.  Were you nervous?  Were you trying to hit the center of the green?  What were you trying to do?
MI HYUN KIM:  I just try to hit the pin, at the pin.  You know, bounce is to right.  I think at that time bounce is a little left, left of the green, because, you know, (inaudible) ball kick to left, Hee-Won ball kick the left.  I thought my ball was kick the left, too.   Just a little bit nervous that time because greens is so fast, grass is too hard. 

Q.  What was the best part of your game today? 
MI HYUN KIM:  I don't know, driver (laughter). 
MODERATOR:  Did you use driver on every hole? 
MI HYUN KIM:  Yeah. 

Q.  What club did you use on your second shot into 18? 
MI HYUN KIM:  18, 7-iron.

Q.  Before your win you had a tournament lead where Karrie Webb passed you.  Leading in that tournament and not winning, what has that taught you? 
MI HYUN KIM:  Golf is difficult game.  Nobody know who get the win, you know.  That time I lead Saturday, but I'm still nervous.  I just worry about Karrie get the win, I lose the game.  You know, Achilles a little bit that week. 
MODERATOR:  Achilles tendon? 
MI HYUN KIM:  Yes.  Just hurt a little left side.  Worry about the swing.  Sunday have a lot of wind, so I just worry about the wind.  I cannot confidence that time. 

Q.  Are you better now at blocking out those kinds of things, worrying about other players, worrying about little aches and pains, and just playing golf? 
MI HYUN KIM:  No, I just still worry about the players. 
MODERATOR:  You worry about other players? 
MI HYUN KIM:  Yeah (laughter). 

Q.  For so many holes there it seemed like nothing was happening, and you had a three-shot lead.  It seemed like it was going to be a pretty easy day for you.  Did you ever get that feeling yourself, that it was a pretty easy round, or does this course not allow you to do that?
MI HYUN KIM:  You know, I just lead by three shots, but I lose the game at the Rochester.  Hee-Won is a good player, Danielle is a good player.  They hit good at the Saturday, yesterday.  I think they have a chance to win.  I have chance to lose, too.  Just a little bit nervous.  But, you know, I'm every time think, you know, I can do that, I can do this, like that. 

Q.  Are you going to work on anything before you play the British?  Are you going to play another tournament?  What are you going to work on before the British?
MI HYUN KIM:  This is the second time I play British Open, but I was second place last year.  So weather is very bad that time.  So I just hope weather is good, please (laughter). 

Q.  Correct me if I'm wrong, two years ago were you in the playoff here, at New Albany?
MI HYUN KIM:  Yes.

Q.  With you being in that playoff that year, Hee-Won being in the playoff last week, did you not want to see this go to another playoff or not? 
MI HYUN KIM:  You know, just I hope  -- I just think I hope not go to the playoff.  I don't like playoff.  So nervous, so hard.

Q.  Asian players have had some very good success of late.  Could you maybe talk or explain a little bit about the mindset of Asian players, other things that attribute to your success? 
MI HYUN KIM:  They practice a lot (laughter).  You know, every Korean player, they parents follow with the player, travel with the player.  They want to, you know, try practice hard and work out hard.  I don't know American player, but we just try to very hard practice. 

Q.  Do you do anything special to celebrate a win, buy yourself anything?  Can you talk about your chip at 18, how difficult it was.  As it was releasing to the hole, did you think, "That's great, exactly where I want it"? 
MI HYUN KIM:  You know, I know that this is a very, you know, downhill lie, green is hard.  I know that.  I play with Wendy Ward first day.  She was there.  I saw the ball bounce and her chip shot.  I just remind her chip shot, you know.  I know where it's landing, how much it run.

Q.  Do you buy anything special to celebrate?
MI HYUN KIM:  No.  I just think about, "I can do that, I can do this," confidence. 

Q.  Can you talk about how you like Tartan Fields, this golf course?
MI HYUN KIM:  This golf course, I play every day afternoon, late time.  So greens are so, you know, firm.  I win, but this course is very hard, very difficult. 

Q.  What is your opinion of how good Hee-Won is?  Do you think it's not going to be long before she's up there with you sand Se Ri?
MI HYUN KIM:  You know, she is good player.  I think she was JLPGA, she have win in Korea.  We have national team with Hee-Won, me and Hee-Won.  I know Hee-Won, she's good player.  I think this is her third time second place.  I think she can get win.  I think she can get win.  She close. 

Q.  Do you have your own caddie?  How are our caddies?  Are they helpful to you out there on the course, the caddies?
MI HYUN KIM:  Yeah.  He know the right club, right club.  Sometimes he knows.  I want to play 7-iron, but he say, "No, no, no, 8-iron is right."  He is right.  I just a little bit nervous.  I want to try long club, but he make me more confidence. 

Q.  You have now won twice, almost three times, on the tour.  Very few players are multiple winners.  Do you consider yourself an elite player out here?  Do you feel like now you are one of the elite players? 
MI HYUN KIM:  I don't know.  You know, I just try to (inaudible) my game.  I have to practice more. 

Q.  You also escaped trouble early in the round.  On the 7th hole you hit it into a pond, got a bogey.  Do you think the reason you won wasn't so much because of birdies but the way you responded after you had a bad shot, bogey or double bogey?
MI HYUN KIM:  You know, No.  7, my shot is very difficult because is a little bit downhill lie, and grass is so hard, ground is so hard.  That time is the same like 17 hole, a little bit nervous because the water is there. 
You know, that time I have to hit the center of the green, but I just aim at the pin.  There is my mistake. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT