U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 31, 2001
Mi Hyun Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MI HYUN KIM: There wasn't much difficult today, except the course -- it's a long course.  The course was quite long today.  And I didn't think there was much difficulty.  My putting still was quite good today.  And also I practiced a lot on the fairways on the practice round, and that helped today's game. 
 
MI HYUN KIM: Today on the front 9 I had a couple of chances of making birdies, however putting -- putts just slid by the hole.  On the 10th, I told myself I've got to get a birdie.  So on the 10th with a  middle wedge, about 60 yards from the hole I hit it about three feet to the hole, made a birdie.  And 11th -- with a 11-wood I hit it about three feet to the hole and made a birdie.  And 12, with 6-iron I hit it six feet to the hole, made a birdie. 
 
MI HYUN KIM: 160 yards. 
 
Q.  How much do you think being in the heat of the battle last year at the Women's Open will help you this year?
 
MI HYUN KIM: Last year at the U.S. Open I learned how to attack the course and also how to manage the course.  For this year, instead of trying to make birdie, I try to avoid the difficult holes.  And the easy holes, I attacked the hole to get birdies.  So this kind of course -- especially last year helped. And I will be improved on course management as the round goes by, so I expect to do better. 
 
Q.  Mi Hyun, did you like being in the first group of the day?  And what time did you have to get up?
 
MI HYUN KIM: Well, I didn't want to be late for tee time, so about 2:30 I happened to wake up.  And then I couldn't go back to sleep and tried to go back to sleep, but couldn't.  So it was difficult morning.  
 
MI HYUN KIM: No, it was one. 
 
MI HYUN KIM: Thank you. 
 
MI HYUN KIM: It is the first time to play with A.J. Eathorne, and A.J. had a really good short game rhythm and putting stroke.  So I don't usually watch how other players putting stroke.  But I watched and tried to learn how putting -- how she putted today, so that helped my putting too.  And my putting was quite good since last week.  And also last week to prepare for the Open I changed my putter.  I use -- never compromise, but I used the same model.  But it's a lighter putter because of a fast green, so that helped my game, too. 
 
 
Q.  You've been in the hunt quite a bit this year especially, and you play well on tight, narrow courses.  Does that mean that your game is well suited for the U.S. Open type of courses?  And how do you like this course so far?
 
MI HYUN KIM: I like -- I prefer narrow course because I'm not a long hitter.  So when I can drive, like since it's narrow -- since my driver is accurate, I can drive, but -- I prefer a course that others cannot drive, but I can drive on tee. 
 
MI HYUN KIM: My tee shot is very accurate.  I like the narrow course, rather than the long. 
 
 
Q.  Are your clubs -- how much different are your clubs from standard length to adjust for your height?
 
MI HYUN KIM: I use the same length of driver, same length of iron.  Since I'm short, it looks longer to me.  However, I use the same standard driver and iron. 
 
 
Q.  Could you give us some idea about how significant it would be for you to win the American Open, significant for you personally and for your  country?
 
MI HYUN KIM: Not just me, I think every player in this field and the Tour.  The Tour players' object is winning the U.S. Women's Open.  And when I first came to the USA I promised that -- I promised and I dreamed of winning the U.S. Women's Open.  But my mother, she said, she will never let me get married until I win U.S. Women's Open, so I must win it (laughter.) 
 
MI HYUN KIM: No, not yet. 
 
 
Q.  What's your mother's name?
 
MI HYUN KIM: Wang, last name, W-a-n-g. First name, S-u-n-h-a-n-g. 
 
Q.  From 13th to 18th hole, these holes are very difficult.  And how did you play today and how did you overcome the difficulties.  And on the 3rd and 4th round how do you prepare for those holes?
 
MI HYUN KIM: For a Tour player, a long course or short course, it doesn't matter, it doesn't effect the ability much.  You've got to try to make birdie every chance you're given.  But on 15th, when I made a bogey, I had enough chance to make par, however I tried  to make birdie, then I made a mistake.  So in this kind of long course I don't worry much about length, I don't really care about the difficulties of the course, I try every -- every hole and I give my all effort to attack the course. 
 
MI HYUN KIM: I had a really good tee shot. However, there was downwind and also side wind, so when I hit it -- I didn't want to hit it over the green, so I went to the downwind.  And at the time when downwind was blowing I hit it, but the club was a little bit open and pushed to right. 
 
MI HYUN KIM: Maybe 12 feet. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT