NEW ALBANY GOLF CLASSIC
October 1, 2000
Mi Hyun Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MI HYUN KIM: No.  2, par 3, 5-iron.  No.  6, par 5, bogey.  Out of bounds and third shot  -- fourth shot on the green and 2-putt.  No.  9 par 4, I shoot the left side under the tree.  Hit a 9-wood  (Inaudible.) No. 12, -- (inaudible) four, 5-iron, one foot, birdie. 17, 18 par 4's, five feet birdie.  (Inaudible.) 
 
Q.  When did you think you had a chance to win this tournament? 
 
MI HYUN KIM:   Even after I signed off and I was waiting outside, and then until I saw Shani put her tee shot in the water , I knew I had a chance.  After Shani made double-bogey, I knew I had a chance. 
 
Q.  After playing all day, your strategy was to just shoot as low as you could? 
 
MI HYUN KIM:   Even though I was not leading the tournament, I was in the Top-5 the last four weeks.  So I tried to be in the top; 5 so I was trying to get a 5-under. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
MI HYUN KIM:   Comfortable after -- I know the course better since I've been here and last year.  And since I know the course, I can attack the course very well.  And also I practice a lot in  -- (inaudible) -- I'm good in putting, but my putting improved a lot here.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
MI HYUN KIM:   Last couple of weeks (inaudible). 
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
MI HYUN KIM:   Last this year, my physical condition has been improved.  I have got stronger.  The last year more injuries and this year  -- (inaudible) second half of the year.  And then since I know the course, I put everything with my full strength where after last year, since I didn't know the course, I had to be careful if I used my full strength.  But especially my physical condition has improved a lot and it has helped. 
 
Q.  Could you go over your clubs on the playoff hole, and also, did you think that you had to hole out from the fringe because you thought Lorie would make her putt for birdie? 
 
MI HYUN KIM:   Tee shot she hits driver, new Callaway driver.  Second shot, I used an 8-iron but it went longer  -- it went further than (inaudible)  -- I didn't think about making the birdie, but in some way (inaudible) probably playoff, but I didn't try to just mostly make birdie, I just hit it to get it close (inaudible.) About 13 feet.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
MI HYUN KIM:   Last year I fell down.  About three years ago I hurt my knee.  I slipped and I had a knee problem.  Last year, I played many tournaments, more and more tournaments than prior; so it bothered knee.  But I play and I got stronger, and especially this year, I did physical exercise a lot.  (Inaudible.)  
 
Q.  The beginning of the year, you had a disappointing start, but now with your win two weeks ago, today you're in the playoffs, do you think that your game is finally back to where it was last year? 
 
MI HYUN KIM:   Beginning of this year, I had a left shoulder injury, but last year, I was playing very well with tournaments scheduled here  -- so instead of taking a break, I put myself to play and then the first, second, third round  -- (inaudible), last day I collapsed.  And then the time I  -- I learned a lesson that I had to take a break.  So I took about three weeks' break and then back here and I will play (Inaudible.) 
 
Q.  What are your thoughts about this tournament in general, the way it was run, and the way it went for you? 
 
MI HYUN KIM:   This course is very well maintained and especially the fairways, greens, fairway grass is like carpet, very, very maintained.  Course is like U.S. Women's Open.  I like the course very much.  And I would like to express my appreciation to the maintainers, greenskeepers, who maintain the course very well.  I'd like to come back next year again to play the tournament.  
 
Q.  I heard you sing kareoke, could you sink a song for us? 
 
MI HYUN KIM:  (Laughs.) 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT