NEW ALBANY GOLF CLASSIC
September 28, 2000
Mi Hyun Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MI HYUN KIM:  6-iron two feet.  Birdie.  No.  2, bogey.  After a tee shot into bunker, and the bunker shot was about 25 feet, 2-putt.  No. 5, par 4, hit a 7-iron seven feet to the hole.  Birdie.  No. 7, 9-wood five feet.  Birdie. No.  9, 7-iron, two feet, birdie.  No. 10, driver shot right into the rough.  Second shot, got into the bunker.  Four feet, bogey (inaudible).  11, 5-iron five feet birdie.  12, 3-iron 10 feet above the hole and then 3-putt, bogey.  14, tee shot  -- (inaudible) 7-iron and then it goes about 13 feet on the fringe to the cup and made a birdie with chip shot.  16, five feet  -- inaudible about 60 yards -- five feet to the hole, made a birdie.   18, 4-iron right side of the green and then about six feet to the hole.  Chip shot went past  -- past the hole about six feet and 2-putt for bogey.  So eight birdies and four bogeys.  
 
Q.  Were you disappointed with that last putt, to keep the lead?
 
MI HYUN KIM:   It was disappointing, but I should have make the putt to stay in the lead.  But I still have three days left over.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about coming off of last week when 1-under was in a playoff, and then to have a round where you make eight birdies? 
 
MI HYUN KIM:   Last week I was feeling very good  -- last week, graeen was very fast, but this week, greens are a little bit slow.  However, the condition of greens, they are good.  Putting  -- I miss  (inaudible) -- I have good feeling.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about your schedule for the rest of the year?  And I was particularly interested in the Tournament of Champions at Alabama.  You had to miss that last year, because I believe you had a commitment back home in Korea.  Are you going to play there this year and can you talk about why you missed last year? 
 
MI HYUN KIM:   This year, my schedule is  -- I have one week off because of Solheim Cup and then I (inaudible) go to Korea for three weeks.  I committed with other tournaments that I would be playing.  It is my obligation to play in Korea, to help LPGA there.  Last year why I missed was same thing like this year, beginning of the year, I didn't know that I was going to win because I was rookie.  I didn't know what was going to happen.  But the beginning of the year, I made a commitment to play Korea's tournaments; that I would be playing their tournaments.  But this year, since I won twice, I didn't make any commitment  -- but I have to still play in Korea because of fans and the Korean media and Korean golf.  I'm playing a few tournaments straight in Korea.  Then I come back and play Arch and go back to Korea in December to play Korea/Japan Cup.  It is like Solheim Cup.  I played last year and I represent Korea.  
 
Q.  What's the reaction back home when you won last week, and maybe last year, your first win as a rookie? 
 
MI HYUN KIM:   When I won for the first time, the feeling was really strange because I didn't know what to do, I didn't know what to expect.  But I was very happy to win a tournament last year, but this year, I was anxious to win a tournament because I wasn't  -- on the edge of winning a tournament a couple times, but I didn't make it to win.  So I was very anxious to win a tournament.  And when I won it finally, I was relieved and felt very good and then I have more confidence that I can win more tournaments later in the year.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT