GINN TRIBUTE HOSTED BY ANNIKA
May 29, 2008
Mi Hyun Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks tore coming in, you're tied for the lead at 5-under, if you would, just talk about how you played today. 
 MI HYUN KIM: I don't know, when I practiced on Tuesday, I was very confident with my swing and the course was so dry, and I'm not a long hitter, but of course it was so dry, my driver didn't have much carry but rolled a lot. 
 But with the rain last night, it rained a lot. When I saw the rain falling, I was just worried about the course, because of course it was long, and so when I played the front nine, I started on the back nine, so when I played the back nine, the course is so long, and especially No. 18, I can't reach the green in two shots, even with a 3-wood. 
 But my short game is working good and my putting is working good. That's why I shoot good today. 

 Q. Did the rain soften up the greens and law you to hit the ball close?
 MI HYUN KIM: Oh, yeah, the green wasn't so firm, you know, in the practice round and then last year -- especially last year with the rain, you couldn't hold the greens and I had a lot of -- at the second shot but the greens were easy to hold it and makes it easy to get to the pins. 

 Q. You won the 2006 Ginn Open, have you thought about not necessarily a sweep, but at least the Ginn perfecta? 
 MI HYUN KIM: I like this tournament because I like the big prize, maybe. 
 You know, Orlando and here, they have the course in good shape. The greens are perfect and the fairways are so good, and they are working so hard. I think especially last night, especially it rained a lot but still the fairways are so perfect and the green is perfect. I like the course. 

 Q. Would you like it to stay wet or would you like it to dry off a little bit? 
 MI HYUN KIM: I want dry because the course is a little long for me I feel. I want a little bit of dry fairways and then wet greens. (Giggling).

 Q. With the course being so long, do you have to adjust your game or do you try to not adjust and try to maybe over hit the ball? 
 MI HYUN KIM: You know what, some holes it's easy to get birdies but some holes, I have to have a very smart game. Like No. 18, I hit the drive so good and I had like 195 to the front of the green, and so even I hit 3-wood, I can reach the green, so I was aiming at the right side of the green and chipped in and made the par. So sometimes I need to bury -- and have to be smart and sometimes I have to go for it. 

 Q. How many woods are you carrying? 
 MI HYUN KIM: Driver, 3, 5, 7, and then 4/5 is a hybrid. 

 Q. If you couldn't reach the green with your 3-wood, how far do you carry a 3-wood normally?
 MI HYUN KIM: Normally, you know, normally 190 carry, and then I have a lot of roll. But my 3-wood is like 12.5 degrees, so I hit it pretty low, a lower shot. Normally 190 carry and today is like 185. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks for coming in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT