SEMGROUP CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JOHN Q. HAMMONS
May 1, 2008
Mi Hyun Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Mi Hyun, thanks for coming in and joining us today. You're the defending champion and you shot 1-under par in these windy conditions today. Talk about your round a little bit.
 MI HYUN KIM: Well, this morning I change the putter. I got the new putter this morning, so I just practice a little bit. Then I just using this putter and I did three putts, you know, second hole and third hole, and just a little bit losing confidence with the putter. 
 Then after when I birdie 10th hole, like No. 1, I got confidence back to my swinging and putting and short game. I'm happy about my score.
 MIKE SCANLAN: What made you decide to switch putters? 
 MI HYUN KIM: I don't know. I don't know why. But, you know, I need to get something new, so that's why I -- I order the putter earlier this week, but I just got it this morning. 

 Q. How much did winning last year affect your mental approach knowing you've won on this course before? 
 MI HYUN KIM: You know what, this course is tough. You know, especially windy today. I guess this week had not like a high score this week, too, like last year. 
 So last year won only like 3-under will win tournament, so I don't think higher score than last year. Kind of almost the same as last year. 
 I just need to a little bit smart game. You know, some hole we need to just par is okay. Just trying to do smart.

 Q. Do you enjoy playing in the group like you've today and tomorrow with Paula, and then Lorena going for history this week?
 MI HYUN KIM: Yeah. They both hitting good, and then they good player so I like them. I like to play with them, yeah. 
 Sometimes, you know, I play with like slow players. I don't like that. But they play -- you know, I like their play and I like them. You know, that's why I play better today. 

 Q. When it's windy like it is today and the course is playing so hard, is it all about being patient and taking your time and not letting things bother you?
 MI HYUN KIM: Yeah. When I at the third hole I was like 2-over, but I don't worry about the score. You know, like it was 2-over is like top 20. 
 So I just like trying to be patient and then trying to be a little bit smart game. I don't try every hole like birdie. I don't try to, you know, do birdie every hole. 
 But, you know, some hole need to do if pin is left side I have to aim way right side of the hole. I did like that so many times.

 Q. Did the wind really impact your club selection a whole a lot?
 MI HYUN KIM: I tried low shot today. So many times try to three quarter shot and trying to do like lighter punch shot, even driver. 
 So I don't know. Lorena hit so high, you know. She swing is so high, so that's why the wind take her ball way left and way right, and then she had a couple mistakes with the wind. 
 But I tried to low ball.

 Q. Is the wind such though that you ever had to go maybe three clubs greater than you ordinarily would? 
 MI HYUN KIM: I don't know. Three clubs, what do you mean? 

 Q. Like if you were going to hit an 8-iron you hit a 5-iron?
 MI HYUN KIM: I don't think so, because I try to punch it. Sometimes I try to punch out, so I don't think like that, three clubs. I don't think so. Maybe two, one. 

 Q. The wind tomorrow is supposed to be quite a bit less. 
 MI HYUN KIM: Hopefully. I wish. I wish no rain. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right. Kimmie, thanks for coming in. 
 MI HYUN KIM: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT