AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 16, 1999
Bret Saberahagen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Jimy just said that you might relish this one more now than when you were younger
based on the fact that because you might not even be pitching now, is that so?

BRET SABERHAGEN: I think I appreciate pitching a lot more and playing professional
baseball a lot more than I did when I was younger. It was always a gift that I had, to
play baseball. Once I was hurting it was taken away. I really realized that God gave me
this special gift to play baseball and I appreciate the game a lot more now because I know
what it takes to play at the Major League level and how tough it is. I guess you can say I
am more of a fan now of baseball than I was.

Q. Now that you have had a few days to reflect, can you put a finger what happened in
the two starts against Cleveland?

BRET SABERHAGEN: I pitched very poorly to say the least. We went over a few tapes,
rushing, just really not staying focused out there. My arm felt good for the first time in
a while and I think that I was caught up with the way that the shoulder was feeling and
not really concentrating on pitching. I was more of a thrower. So tried to make a few
adjustments, now it is a matter of -- we saw some film and now it is a matter of executing
what we have seen.

Q. As a baseball fan are you going to sit back today and sort of savor today's matchup?

BRET SABERHAGEN: Put it this way: If I didn't have a ticket to this game today I would
definitely sneak in to see this game. Yeah. This is a dream matchup today. A guy that did
so much for Boston and pitched so many great games here. Now he has got the pinstripes on
and he is an enemy. This game would still be a dream matchup if it was at Yankee Stadium,
but I think there is a lot more meaning and a lot more feeling being in Fenway. So, yeah,
I am going to sit back and enjoy this game today very much.

Q. Whatever happens today tomorrow's game will be a pivotal game for the Red Sox. Talk
about how your experience affects your approach?

BRET SABERHAGEN: Well, I think I need to just go out there and calm down and
concentrate on pitching rather than throwing like I said. What I did during the season is
one thing, but what you do in the playoffs is another. I think I got a little carried away
the last couple of games. I am going to try to sit back and have better tempo out there,
better timing and better mechanics and just try to do what I have done and not do too
much.

Q. Is there a weariness in your mind; I think obviously if you lose today you are the
one trying to stave off elimination and if you win you have the opportunity to even things
up. No matter what happens, there is going to be a whole lot riding?

BRET SABERHAGEN: They are all important at this particular time. We lost two close ball
games in New York, and I think coming home we feel very confident. We were in the same
boat against Cleveland and this team just goes out and plays hard regardless of the
circumstances or what is going on. It is fun to be a part of. I am just going to go out
there tomorrow and try to do what I am capable of doing. Again not try and do too much.

Q. Can you talk about your ability to keep coming back from these injuries, what goes
into it and secondly, when you went on the DL in August did you fear the season might be
over?

BRET SABERHAGEN: Yeah, I really thought that there was a chance that I won't get back
to this point to be pitching the last month and in postseason. It was something where if
we weren't in contention I probably would have kind of shut it down at that particular
time and let the arm rest and try to strengthen it and see what happened. We kept going at
it and it slowly got better and I was able to build up the arm strength that I needed and
to get the innings that I needed. It's got a lot more strength than what it had. I feel
very fortunate, but as far as coming back time after time I am tired of rehabing. I'd like
to just have a daily maintenance program. Really seemed like I went through spring
training four different times this year with the injuries that have occurred to me over
the year. It is something that I don't enjoy doing, but it is something that I have become
accustomed to and I know my shoulder and I know what I have to do to get it stronger. I
keep saying hopefully this is the last time that I go through a rehab process, but I think
I am mentally tough enough now to get through some of those points and times.

Q. What kind of problems do the Yankees present to you and do you have to pitch them
differently being in a smaller ballpark?

BRET SABERHAGEN: I think people that try to change their style of pitching, whatever it
may be, to go with a certain ballpark that is when they end up getting hurt. You have got
to establish inside. You have got to be able to work both sides of the plate and change
speeds. It sounds easy, but it seems like the people that are worried about pitching in
certain ballparks such as Coors Field, Fenway Park, Wrigley Field, they don't pitch very
well. I feel very comfortable pitching here. It is our home ballpark, I have thrown a lot
of games here. I try not to differ because of the dimensions of the ballpark.

Q. What was the exact injury to your shoulder and has surgery been ruled out, you won't
need it in the offseason?

BRET SABERHAGEN: Well, when I went on the disabled list the last time I went and saw
the doctor and did an MRI and it showed some fraying in my rotator cuff, the shoulder was
weak at that particular time. When the shoulder is weak it doesn't stay right on its axis
that it is supposed to. It moves around and causes more inflammation. When you strengthen
the shoulder it tends to stay in that one spot that it is supposed to when you are
pitching. Right now I feel very good and we will just kind of have to play it out. But
right now it seems like it's gotten a lot stronger and it is feeling better. It is still
kind of up in the air, but if you would have asked me that a month ago, I would have said
yeah, most definitely I did. I thought I was going to have to have surgery but right now I
am not -- still kind of up in the air.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT