AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 6, 1999
Bret Saberahagen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. The weather report for tomorrow night is about 40 degrees. Is that going to affect
you and is it a concern? 
A. I don't think it's going to have a real big effect on my shoulder. I'm able to keep
it warm in between innings. I think it's going to help me if anything because I love
pitching inside and hitters do not like to hit the ball inside when it's cold. When it's
warmer they feel a lot more comfortable at the plate. I think I can be a little more
effective inside with the weather cold. 

Q. Can you talk about your progression thus far when you were in Akron rehabbing
wearing the funny colored shirts up to this point? 

A. Well, it's been a long season for me in respect to the injuries I've had, not being
out there every day, so it's taken some toll on my shoulder as well because it seems like
I've gone through spring training four times this year and not really building up the arm
strength that I needed to get by taking the time off for different injuries, so in that
aspect, it's been tough to get the arm strong, I think as strong as it's going to get
throughout the rest of the year. It's almost about 100 percent chance that I will have
some surgery done at the end of the season on the shoulder to clean up some stuff in there
just so I don't have any ill effect coming in next year. 

Q. Bret, how would the Reggie Jefferson scenario affect the team throughout the series?

A. Well, unfortunately, we don't have Reggie swinging a bat if we need him. I think
that's the bottom line. He's done a great job pinch-hitting all year for us and it's out
of my control who is on the play-off roster and who is not, but I think the team as a
whole, we'd love to have Reggie here supporting us, but, you know, that's something he's
decided that he really wants to get away and clear his head for a little bit. 

Q. Would you talk about how being in the post-season at this stage of your career
compares to your days with the Royals?

A. I appreciate it a lot more. My first year in the big leagues, we lost to Detroit
three nothing, they ended up winning the World Series. My next year we make it to
post-season and we win a World Series. So my first two years in the big leagues, I'm in
post-season and it just seemed like that was the easy part of it and not getting back to
post-season until 1995 with the Colorado Rockies and with my shoulder completely blown up
at that particular time, I'm not able to do anything out there, I hurt the team more than
helped the team. Then last year again for the first time really being, feeling halfway
decent being able to help the team in post-season. So it's something that I don't expect
to get to each year and now that I am, I'm not getting any younger, I realize that I don't
have a whole lot of opportunities left to win another championship and try to take
advantage of them while they're at hand and to win another World Series. It would be a
great feeling. 

Q. Would you talk about how much you'll draw on your previous play-off experience going
into this one? 

A. Well, I think our team as a whole, you know, last year -- we had a lot of guys back
from last year. I think everybody is going to be a little bit more relaxed. I'm in the
clubhouse this afternoon and everybody is sitting around watching some TV, you know,
relaxing. It doesn't seem like anybody is up tight. Everybody is looking forward to this
and everybody knows the task at hand. We've played Cleveland very well this year and last
year and we gave them a good run in the playoffs last year. We played each game very well
against them. We just came up a little short. We hope to change things this year. I think
myself, you know, everybody has gained a little experience since last year, so you just
realize that the long haul is over with. That marathon we had to go to get to this point.
Now it's a sprint to try to get to the finish line and each game is very critical. You
lose one game and you're kind of digging yourself a hole but fortunately I've been in
situations with Kansas City where we were down three to one against Toronto and came back
to win the American League Championship and then we were down three to one against the
Cardinals and came back and ended up winning that. So you know the old saying, the fat
lady might be warming up but she's not singing until the last out of the game is made. 

Q. Bret, is there more of a sense of urgency for you to get another World Series ring
this year since nobody knows how many games or how many seasons they have left?

A. Like I said, you try to take each time that you go to post-season and try to win
that championship because you really don't know what's going to happen to you from year to
year, whether you're going to still be with a ball club that's contending, whether you're
going to make it to post-season, a lot of things can happen. It doesn't take one or two
guys to get you to post-season. I've seen it, you know. It doesn't matter how great two or
three guys are, their years, it really takes an entire ball club to get you to post-season
and that's what we had this year. You go up and down the line. When Tom Gordon goes out
after a month of the season, guys filling in saving games. There were the Kansas City
Royals this year who have blown 20 something saves. That's a lot of saves, that's a lot of
wins and fortunately we had the guys to pick up the slack in the bullpen. Brian Daubach
stepped in, a guy nobody expected to do as well as he did. So we have a good nucleus of
guys and I think everybody filled in when needed, so, you know, I feel very fortunate to
be in this spot right now and hope to take advantage of it. 

Q. To use your own words after your last start, you said your shoulder felt cranky, do
you feel any worse now? 

A. Well, we've been doing everything that I know to get my shoulder right. Is it 100
percent? No. I've seen a couple people to loosen up the shoulder, to work on the shoulder
outside our team, taking some antiinflammatories to keep the swelling out. We're going to
do some stuff before tomorrow's game to loosen it up, so we're doing just about everything
that we can. I'll know tomorrow when I go to loosen up how it feels, but I have a gut
feeling that it's going to feel pretty good especially with the adrenaline with the
importance of the game. Once you start getting the blood flow going and the excitement
going on, you seem to be able to overcome some aches and pains at times. 

Q. There are a lot of people who expect Pedro to win tonight because of the kind of
season he's had. If he does not win, however, what kind of pressure and expectation is
there on you tomorrow? 

A. Well, there's a lot more put on me. Tomorrow is a definite win situation for us that
we have to go out and win if Pedro doesn't win tonight; so we go out and win tonight, it
takes some pressure off me. That's a given; but I enjoy the big games. Regardless of the
situation, I take a lot of pride in coming through. I'm not the pitcher that I used to be,
but I'm still pretty good at times and hopefully I'll have my stuff regardless whether we
win or lose tonight to go out and win tomorrow. 

Q. With everything you've been through with your shoulder the past few years, do you
ever think about how lucky you are to be back in a Division Series again? 
A. Well, first and foremost, I thank God that I'm able to pitch the way I have after
surgery and pitching with the modern technology now. Ten years ago the technology probably
wasn't there to reattach my shoulder, so to speak, and be able to come back and pitch, so
I just feel very fortunate and I appreciate the game a lot more now because I realize how
special it is to be able to pitch at this level and be successful. Before it was always
something that I've done and it kind of came natural to me, the stuff that I had. I worked
hard to keep the arm strong and to be at the top of my game, but I really didn't know what
I had until I lost it. 

Q. As far as you're concerned, what's the most difficult part of this Indians' lineup?

A. Well, I think if you keep the first three guys off base, that's a big part of it.
You know, when you get Lofton, Vizquel or Roberto on base, they can cause a lot of havoc
for you and when you get them up on base and then you've got their big home run hitters,
instead of maybe a solo home run, you're looking at a two or three-run homer. So that's
their ignition right there, getting those guys on base, that's the key to their success.
Manny is not going to have 160 something RBIs if these guys aren't getting on base.
There's a reason why he's got all these RBIs, so I think our primary goal is to keep those
top three guys in check and if the big guys do some damage, it may be a solo home run
rather than a two or three one.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT