PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2015
Hiroshi Iwata
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOHN DEVER: Good afternoon, welcome back to the 97th PGA Championship, which suddenly had a little bit of a historical flair this morning.  Hiroshi matched a Major Championship record with a 63.  He becomes the 25th individual to post a 63 in a Major Championship.  This is the 27th time it's ever happened.  Hiroshi, I'd like to ask you, this is your first Major Championship in America, what were your expectations when you flew here and started to get involved here this week?
I should mention Hiroshi's interpreter is named May, and we thank her for her efforts today.
HIROSHI IWATA: When I came to here, I was thinking that to just make my golf better and better, and on Sunday probably I can be in the top-10.
JOHN DEVER: You're No. 2 on the Japan Golf Tour Money List right now.  You had a win earlier this year.  Have you been playing well coming into the tournament?  How are you feeling?
HIROSHI IWATA: Japan and America, the course setting is really different, but the course here has a lot of distance on the par-4s, that in Japan I don't shoot like a long iron a lot, but here I have to use a long iron a lot.
JOHN DEVER: Let's have some questions, please.
Q. You shot a 62 at Thailand in the second round, can you compare this round to the 62 that you shot in Thailand?
HIROSHI IWATA: Just one shot different (Laughter).  Nothing else.
Q. Congratulations.  Can you tell us what you're thinking right now, what emotions you're experiencing right now?
HIROSHI IWATA: I have seen these kind of media centers on TV, but I'm honored to be here to be interviewed.  But when I came in, I thought that it was going to be more people, more media, but, so, it was kind of a lot like that.
Q. Why did you play so much better today than yesterday?
HIROSHI IWATA: The course conditions are very different from yesterday and today.
Yesterday the wind was so strong and the green was really hard that I can't stop the balls with the wedges.  I could only make a birdie chance at one time yesterday.
JOHN DEVER: Curious if you have any relationship or you've ever met a Isao Aoki, who is one of the 25 individuals who's posted a 63 in a Major Championship.  Do you have a relationship with him?
HIROSHI IWATA: He's a legend in Japan, so I know him a lot.
Q. If I could just follow-up on the earlier question, what emotions did you experience on shooting your round today?  How did you feel within, after you had finished playing?
HIROSHI IWATA: On the back nine, after No. 13, I was thinking that I'm going to shoot 27.
JOHN DEVER: Thank you, Hiroshi.  Congratulations on setting the course record for the Straits course here at Whistling Straits.  Best of the former mark of 64, which was held by W C Liang, and that was set during the 2010 PGA Championship right here in the third round.  Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT