WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 9, 2014
Hiroshi Iwata
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  HIROSHI IWATA:   Well, it's still a little hard for me to swallow this.   It's a tough way to finish a tournament.   But I'll look back after I calm down.   
   
 Q.   How proud are you of the way that you fought and got back into the competition, particularly with that run of birdies?   
HIROSHI IWATA:   Yeah, I think I developed on that point.   Like I said yesterday, I was short‑tempered and I used to lose it.   I had a tendency to do that but I came back, and I was happy that I was able to do that.   
   
 Q.   Does that mean you've learnt a lot about yourself, playing in such a big championship and competing right to the end?   
HIROSHI IWATA:   Yeah, definitely this will‑‑ I could gain confidence from this, yes.   
   
 Q.   I know there's a lot of disappointment at the moment, but can you look at the positives, because in terms of World Rankings, you've really lifted, and you'll have so many other doors opening to tournaments from now on.   
HIROSHI IWATA:   You're exactly right.   I think this will open up a lot of doors for me.   Yeah, I'll try to learn from this appearance and try to build from here again.   
   
 Q.   Did you think you would be in this position that you are at, say, at the 18th hole today?   
HIROSHI IWATA:   I think last year's winning score was like 24‑under or something.   When I played this course, I didn't feel like it's going to go that low this year.   
   
 Q.   But did you think when you came here that you would be contesting for the title?   
HIROSHI IWATA:   I kind of had a good feeling that if I played my game, I might have a chance to be in contention, yes.   
   
 Q.   What was going through your mind as you were holing that putt for a chance to get into the playoff?   
HIROSHI IWATA:   I was very confident.   I saw the line, I was very confident over my ball.   Just unfortunate it didn't get in.   
   
 Q.   Do you look at this tournament with regret having come so close and not having won it or will you take the positives from it?   
HIROSHI IWATA:   Currently I'm upset at myself.   I couldn't make the playoff.   I think I had a really good chance to win it.   But as time goes by, I think it will take time to sink in but I think I can learn a lot from this.   But it may take some time.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT