NBA DRAFT
June 26, 2014
Shabazz Napier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SHABAZZ NAPIER:   The first thing I want to say is thank God.   This is definitely a true blessing, and it's just special because my family's here.   You know, my mother, my brother, my niece, and my sister.   It just makes everything so special for me. 
I'm a family‑oriented guy, and life would be definitely meaningless without my family.   That's the first thing I want to get off my chest. 
The second thing, I'm just happy.   I'm happy I got drafted. 

Q.   You're coming from a championship culture at UConn.   You're going to a championship culture at Miami.   What similarities do you see between the two teams? 
SHABAZZ NAPIER:   The first thing that jumps off is the winning attitude.   That's one of the biggest things.   When you compete at that high level, you want to win every single game.   That winning attitude comes in the first day you arrive at that camp.   On the first day you arrive to that organization, you want to work, and you want to prove that you can get back there.   Not prove to anybody, but to yourself, to your teammates that you can get back there. 

Q.   Shabazz, a lot of reports that LeBron wanted you to be the guy the Heat picked.   What's your relationship with LeBron?   And are you bringing him back to South Beach with you? 
SHABAZZ NAPIER:   I don't know if I'm bringing him back.   I would love it.   Me and LeBron's relationship, he's a great guy.   I've been to his camps.   Me and him chatted a few times at his camps.   He's just a special thing. 
My agent just told me that he Tweeted something out about me just now.   It's just something special to know that one of the best players in the world thinks about you and appreciates your talent.   That's something that I'm so humble for. 

Q.   Shabazz, it's been a long time coming, man.   It feels like yesterday you were playing at Charlestown High School.   Talk about what it's like to be able to go into an organization, a championship organization, that has a need right away at the point guard position and to be able to learn from the best player in the NBA. 
SHABAZZ NAPIER:   It's just, to sum it up, it's just a blessing, man.   I would be lying to you guys if I said I thought I would be here when I was high school.   It's just truly a blessing. 
It's just‑‑ it's one of those experiences you really can't describe.   Like I said, I'm so happy I was able to do it with my family, and that's one of the biggest things.

Q.   Right.   Was there ever a moment like, whether you were in college, where you realized like, I can really make this thing happen? 
SHABAZZ NAPIER:   You know, everyone asks me that, and I'm not sure.   Maybe when I was a sophomore.   You know, even when I was a freshman, of course, NBA was something I watched, but sometimes your aspirations are left at that. 
I had to work hard.   I had to tell myself that this is not going to be easy to get to where I am now.   I'm pretty sure that everything came in my sophomore year. 

Q.   Mario Chalmers is a free agent, and Norris Cole didn't have such a great postseason.   So it's possible that you could slide in as the starting point guard for the Miami Heat.   How do you feel about that? 
SHABAZZ NAPIER:   There's always opportunity to do something great, and no matter if I was going to slide in as a starter or come off the bench, I'm still going to work hard.   I'm going to compete.   That's who I am. 
My attitude will never change if a head coach was telling me I was going to start right away.   It's going to be the same way.   I'm going to work as if I'm not on the team.   That's what brought me in, and that's what's going to make me as good as I want to be.

Q.   Were you in contact with the Heat prior to the draft? 
SHABAZZ NAPIER:   No.   I was in contact with my family.   That's about it.

Q.   Shabazz, I'm not sure‑‑ we just found out today that 50 percent of your bloodline is Puerto Rican. 
SHABAZZ NAPIER:   Yeah.

Q.   The whole island of Puerto Rico has your back right now and are huge fans of the Miami Heat.   What are your thoughts now knowing that you have the whole island on your back right now? 
SHABAZZ NAPIER:   So I was raised by my mom, and my mom's full Puerto Rican.   I kind of think I'm 75 percent. 
I actually went out there my sophomore year and actually trained with the Puerto Rican team.   It's definitely something special.   It's super special definitely because my grandmother and my grandfather, they love it down there.   If I get a chance down there to go play for them, best bet I'm going to bring them with me. 
It's just a special moment, and knowing that there's a lot of Hispanics down in the Miami Heat, that's going to bring a lot more people, it's super special, man. 
My mind right now is twirling.   I'm going to be honest with you.   I'm just super happy right now. 

Q.   Shabazz, can you talk about coming from where you are, an area that's not really known for developing players, not as known as it should be perhaps, to get to this point. 
SHABAZZ NAPIER:   Yeah, I didn't do it on my own, I can tell you that much.   I got about a handful of guys that pushed me to get to where I am now.   I'm just so happy that they were able to do that. 
I mean, it was tough.   Just like any other neighborhood, there's always people that's going to compete with you.   It was tough.   But they allowed me to understand and see what I can be. 
From when I was young, 8 years old, little kid running on the court during halftime shooting basketballs, to me right now in front of you guys who continue to push me.   Like I said, it's a special feeling.

Q.   Born in Roxbury? 
SHABAZZ NAPIER:   Yeah, Roxbury. 

Q.   You had said you felt you were the best point guard in the draft, and after all you proved at UConn, but it ended up being a handful of guys went ahead of you anyway.   Does that put the chip back on your shoulder going into this? 
SHABAZZ NAPIER:   No, the chip never leaves my shoulder.   It will never leave my shoulder.   That's what makes me who I am.   And I was saying that not to belittle any other point guards.   There's a reason why they're here.   But I was just saying that because that's who I am. 
I wouldn't be Shabazz Napier if I wouldn't have said that.   I believe it, and I'm going to prove it.   What I always learned was that whatever you put in is what you're going to get out.   If I don't put in the work, it's not going to show. 
So there's always a chip on my shoulder to prove to myself that I'm the best, and to do that, I've got to work hard. 

Q.   We know LeBron has said some very good things about you.   He likes your game.   Are you now ready to be a recruiter, per se, for Miami to help him stay? 
SHABAZZ NAPIER:   I would hope so.   I would hope so.   He's one of the best players in the world.   So if me going there helps him come back, it just betters our chances of being a complete team. 
But at the end of the day, my job is to get to improve and work on my game so when it comes to the stage where it's my first game, I'm ready to compete, and I'm prepared. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT