PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2010
Wen-Chong Liang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   KELLY ELBIN: Wenchong Liang of China in, ladies and gentlemen, with the new competitive course record here at Whistling Straits, firing an 8-under par 64 in the third round of the 92nd PGA Championship at Whistling Straits. 
 He is currently at 9-under par through three rounds, three shots out of the lead. Congratulations, he's joined today by David Lee, his interpreter, just open up with thoughts on how you were able to set the new course record today and how you feel about it. 
 WENCHONG LIANG: Well, after I made the cut yesterday so I feel much more relaxed today also and was able to play on the back nine from the 10th hole and it started well. So that started building the confidence. And also today the driving, also putting and all very well and so it makes the whole round very good. 
 KELLY ELBIN: For the record Wenchong needed only 23 putts today. If you would, let's go through the birdies, the eight birdies that he made today with distances on the shot or the irons he hit in and the distances of the putt. Starting on No. 11. 
 WENCHONG LIANG: Well I don't have my yardage book with me right now so it might not be very accurate. 
 KELLY ELBIN: Let's open it up to questions first. We'll get to distances later. 

 Q. Away from the course, what sort after adjustments have you had to make? In other words, transportation, finding food, all those things. 
 WENCHONG LIANG: The biggest adjustment is really the jet lag. The time difference. 
 I arrived Sunday night, it took me about two days to get over that. But I have previous major experience so I know how to adjust now so I did like nine holes of practice round on Monday, nine holes on Tuesday, Wednesday just basically practicing and relaxing, so instead of just put too much pressure on myself, now I found a rhythm to adjust and relax. 
 KELLY ELBIN: For the record this is Wenchong's second PGA Championship. He missed the cut in 2007 at Southern Hills.

 Q. You made a very difficult course look easy today. How hard did you have to fight out there?
 WENCHONG LIANG: I really want to take this opportunity to thank my coach who has been working with me for the past three years, to change my swing, so now I'm more relaxed and very comfortable with my swing. And the other thing is I know to remain calm, not let the major pressure get to him. So I'm able to perform very, very well today. 

 Q. Since golf is so young in your country, when you were acquiring the game, first of all, how old were you when you first took up the game and how difficult was it for you to find good instruction as you learned the game?
 WENCHONG LIANG: I started when I was 15. My hometown, that's where the first golf course in China is. It was designed by Arnold Palmer and it opened in 1984. And that really when they had that golf club they started this golf team. And I am considered the second generation of that golf team. Really the first coach coming to the town to teach in China is Peter Dang, who is from Hong Kong, so his coach is really those first generation golfers, and at the beginning there weren't a lot of information available, but as I started playing in a different TOUR and saw the different level of play then I know that, I found out that there is more out there and I can learn and then eventually I found Kel Llewllyn, his coach for today. 
 As the game gross in China of course we also welcome good coaches to come to China and teach us. So the golfer can learn. 

 Q. Can you talk about how you have changed your swing, it used to be rather flat, can you talk about your specific change that is you made?
 WENCHONG LIANG: Well I wished that coach Kel Llewllyn is here, but basically it's a total rebuild from stance to grip to take away to down swing, everything. I wish he was here to explain it. 

 Q. Your caddie said you shot a 60 in an Asian Tour win in 2008. Is that your best round ever or was this your best round ever considering all things?
 WENCHONG LIANG: Well both round are very, very special to me, but this is special, besides the score, is because this is a major. And also it makes people realize that there is actually professional golfers in China and so this is a very special round. 

 Q. Can you kind of comment on how many Pete Dye courses he has played prior to coming here and what was his thoughts about Whistling Straits when he first saw it. 
 WENCHONG LIANG: Well, I haven't played a whole lot of Pete Dye courses but I did play in New Orleans in the tournament where I finished well. I finished 12th. 
 But this course, in my mind, is a good championship venue, not only for players, also for the spectators. As a player inside the ropes you feel very comfortable because you don't feel pressed by the big crowd. And the crowds also have a great advantage point. So but also this course was different wind direction and it can make it tougher. 

 Q. What was your first knowledge of Tiger Woods and have you ever played with him?
 WENCHONG LIANG: First time I heard about Tiger was in '97 when he won the Masters. But 2001 I actually was very in close contact with Tiger, because Tiger went to Mission Hills for an exhibition and at that time I was the caddie for Zhang Lian Wei way the Chinese golfer, but he hasn't played with Tiger in the same group yet. 
 KELLY ELBIN: Wenchong Liang thank you very much in with 64th new course record at Whistling Straits.
 WENCHONG LIANG: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT