MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2008
Wen-Chong Liang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How was your first day?  
 WEN-CHONG LIANG: I definitely enjoy the feel of the golf course at Augusta and the whole ambience and also the challenge of the golf course that it provides. But after the first day, I'm kind of how should I say it? I think I can do better.   
  
  Q. What didn't work for you today?  
 WEN-CHONG LIANG: There were a lot of things that went well today. I don't feel like the putts have been stroked solidly. But there was a lot of good that I can take from the round. I can see the line fine, but the stroke wasn't solid.   
  
  Q. How was the feeling standing over the first shot?  
 WEN-CHONG LIANG: On the first hole it's not really different than any other tournament. It's just like any other tournament. There's such a big crowd and that was on my mind a little concern of not hitting people. Especially after seeing what Rory did after hitting the people on the head on the ninth green. So that was something that shocked me a little.   
  
  Q. When what did you learn from today's round?  
 WEN-CHONG LIANG: Golf requires a solid foundation and especially a course like this and a Major tournament like this it will test your skills, how good your skills are, how good a foundation you have. So it still needs improvement.   
  
  Q. Is China, do you think a lot of people are watching you this week?  
 WEN-CHONG LIANG: I'm pretty sure there's a lot of people watching, because the golf is growing very fast in China and plus the media is more widely covering golf now in China. And with some different channels, the cable and the Internet people can watch the Masters.   
  
  Q. Do you hope that you're inspiring kids in China to, that they can do this, what you're doing?  
 WEN-CHONG LIANG: I hope I can be a role model and I'm also sure that the young people will do better, because now they have better resources, more golf courses and more resources behind them. I started when I was 15 years old, that's when I started learning the game. So now the kids can pick up the game younger and with more resources and I'm sure that they can do better.   
  
  Q. Are you happy today or sad with your round, disappointed? How do you feel?  
 WEN-CHONG LIANG: It's an okay score for now but I think I can do better and tomorrow I will try harder and do better.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT