NHL STANLEY CUP FINAL: BLUES VS BRUINS
June 7, 2019
Joakim Nordstrom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Are you guys getting enough second-shot opportunities and he's just stopping them or do you need to get more?
JOAKIM NORDSTROM: I think there's certainly been some rebounds there.  We haven't been able to get there enough.  But I think that's an area where we can expose him.  Seems like the pucks are bouncing off of him.  You want to obviously shoot more and also get to those rebounds.
Q. Same situation in the Toronto series.  What do you remember about that experience, how you handled it?  Can you apply it this time?
JOAKIM NORDSTROM: Yeah, I mean, we've been through this before.  I don't think our approach is going to change.  We're in an exciting spot.  We don't want to just think too far ahead.  We got to go to St. Louis, and we have to win that game.  That's the bottom line of it.
I thought the game last night we played really well.  Weren't getting the bounces that we wanted.  But I think if we build on that game, elevate a little bit more, we're going to give ourselves a really good chance.
Q. After last night, your thoughts about the non-call at the end?  Your feeling about going forward psychologically after something like that?
JOAKIM NORDSTROM: You have to move on, put that game behind you.  That's history.  There's nothing you can do about it now.  I think the more time that you waste on it, it's going to punish yourself.  You have to put it behind you and move on to the next one.
Q. The play on Noel, Bruce basically said he's the type of guy that leaves everything out on the ice.  Given that, how do you feel for a guy like Noel for that situation?
JOAKIM NORDSTROM: Are you talking about?
Q. The non-call.
JOAKIM NORDSTROM: I mean, I don't know.  I thought it was a penalty.  Game is fast.  Mistakes happen.  The refs didn't call it, didn't see it I guess.  Just got to put that behind us.  There was still a lot of time left in the game.
I don't think anyone was dwelling about it.  I thought we did a good job moving on, were able to score one pretty quickly after.  We obviously didn't get the tying goal, but we were certainly there.
Q. Being one forward down, how do you think it affected you guys?
JOAKIM NORDSTROM: Yeah, I mean, we've been together for a while now.  Obviously chemistry is huge.  We've been mixing, matching lines throughout the year.  I think everyone is comfortable playing with each other.
Ultimately we all have the same game plan and the same system, so it shouldn't be an issue.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT