NHL STANLEY CUP FINAL: BLUES VS BRUINS
May 30, 2019
Joakim Nordstrom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  How is your body feeling today after blocking so many shots?  What are you seeing when you're trying to line up to block those?  
JOAKIM NORDSTROM: First of all, I feel pretty good.  Maybe you get a bruise or so, but nothing more than that.  Just trying to do whatever it takes to keep the puck out of the net.  Was lucky enough to be there in the right spot twice.   
 Q.  How comfortable do you feel on the offensive boards?  
JOAKIM NORDSTROM: We've been getting some bounces lately.  Trying not to change too much the way we play.  I think the way we've been playing has been working for us.  That's why we're getting chances.  It's been nice to see them going in lately.   
 Q.  Coach Cassidy was saying he expects a lot from your line to do a lot of things really well.  Talk about how you have been able to generate that together.  
JOAKIM NORDSTROM: I think just being relentless on the forecheck, winning battles, getting to those second and third opportunities.  It's been working well for us.   
 Q.  Were you expecting this to turn into such a physical series?  
JOAKIM NORDSTROM: Yeah, absolutely.  I mean, it's the Cup Finals.  Guys are going to do whatever it takes to get an edge and to win hockey games.   
It's expected, for sure.   
 Q.  You've been on quite the streak for quite a while till yesterday.  Can it be in any way healthy to deal with a loss, sort of recalibrate, get back into it for Game 3?  
JOAKIM NORDSTROM: Yeah, I mean, of course you want to win every game.  I think if you think you're going to sweep every team or the games that are left, I think you're maybe in a fantasy world.   
We're playing a really good hockey team.  We didn't win last night.  We might not win, we might lose another game.  We just got to focus on the next game here.   
You never want to be too high, you never want to be too low.  If you win one game, doesn't mean you win a series.  If you lose a game, doesn't mean you lose a series.   
Just got to get back and focus on the next game.   
 Q.  On the penalty kill, is that something you learn how to anticipate?  Is that what makes a successful penalty kill?  
JOAKIM NORDSTROM: You do a lot of media.  I think every team does that.  You kind of see the tendencies of the other team, what they want to try to do.  I think we've done a pretty good job of being in the right spots.   
 Q.  What do you notice about the Blues' power play?  
JOAKIM NORDSTROM: They got three really good shooters, big bodies in front.  If we can take away maybe the prime scoring chances, help out on rebounds, we'll get a pretty good chance.   
 Q.  You feed off the energy of the Garden crowd.  They'll be feeding off their energy.  Any adjustments you have to make?  How difficult is it going into St. Louis, them having the biggest win of their franchise ever?  
JOAKIM NORDSTROM: Yeah, I think throughout the Playoffs, it's been loud in every arena that we've been in.  It's been louder at home than on the road.  I don't think that's something we put too much energy on.  It's a lot of fun when the crowd is into it.  Just exciting.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT