TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: TCU v BOISE STATE
January 1, 2010
Nate Potter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What is the key to moving the ball? 
 NATE POTTER: A lot of it has to do with the O line and execution and going back to the fundamentals and trying to play as hard as we can. 
 We have some good solid positions. If the O line plays to the best of their ability, we can try to move the ball and do some things.

 Q. Couldn't run it on them last year. How have you changed this year? 
 NATE POTTER: Well, you know, the line itself is more cohesive this year. We have more games together and I think that helps. The experience helps. A lot of us have gotten stronger in the weightroom and have gained a lot of size. That has definitely helped.

 Q. They have Jerry Hughes, one of the top defensive players in the country, probably some double teams coming. Do you have to prepare especially for him? 
 NATE POTTER: You don't focus your whole game plan on him, but you definitely have to be ready for him because he is such a great player. So you try to, you know -- you don't want to get freaked out and focus everything on him, but you have to be aware of his skills and do the best you can to play against him.

 Q. Hughes said that Kellen gets rid of the ball in two seconds. The average quarterback gets rid of the ball in four seconds. So that's a good thing for Boise State as far as moving the ball, no? 
 NATE POTTER: That's a great thing. That's one of the reasons -- that's one of the reasons we haven't given up so many sacks. Kellen knows where he is going with the ball. That's one of his strengths. He has a quick release and it is really helpful for the O line.

 Q. You played Texas Christian University before Christmas last year, got more time to prepare for them this year. A good thing? 
 NATE POTTER: Yeah, always a good thing when you have more time to prepare for a team. You can game-plan better. You have more time to practice. Your body feels a lit bit better, you can rest it. 
 Overall, for any team it is a good thing.

 Q. How do you feel yourself coming into this game? 
 NATE POTTER: I feel good. I feel good. I have been lucky enough to have a pretty solid year injury-wise and I feel pretty good.

 Q. The offensive line hasn't talked to the press all year, now just the second day in a row you are talking to them. How do you feel about that? 
 NATE POTTER: I don't mind doing it at all. I like you guys. It was a little weird at first because I'm a little rusty, but, yeah, it's fine.
 It is kind of nice during the season to not have to worry about it. But it's been a good experience.

 Q. Is that the reason you don't talk, because it is just a nuisance thing? 
 NATE POTTER: It is not a nuisance per se. A lot of our guys have never been in front of the media. 
 We got a funny group, so we just, you know, keep it in the background basically. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT