JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 27, 2009
Steven O'Hara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   GORDON SIMPSON: Steven, clearly a bit of good Scottish air does you some good, as well. With that lovely start today, a nice round of 68, and I heard you saying on TV there, you've got your wife to thank for that I think, haven't you.   
 STEVEN O'HARA: Yes, I slept in the spare room last night. The wee one is only three weeks old, so, yeah, he needs to be fed and winded every three to four hours, so it's quite tiring trying too feed him and all that. So I had a decent sleep last night for the first time in a while.   
 GORDON SIMPSON: You got the uninterrupted night's sleep and she didn't.  
 STEVEN O'HARA: I went to sleep at half-past eight and woke up at five this morning.   
 GORDON SIMPSON: And clearly your mind was sharp and on the game then.   
 STEVEN O'HARA: I just felt really focused this morning. I've had a few good finishes around here before, and I had a really good game plan how to play the course and feeling good.   
 GORDON SIMPSON: This is what the doctor ordered at this stage of the season.  
 STEVEN O'HARA: That's right. I pressured myself, just not having any decent results really. I think the last few tournaments now, I need to start holing some putts and getting myself up there.   
  
  Q. What's your wife's name?  
 STEVEN O'HARA: Jill.   
  
  Q. And the wee one's name?  
 STEVEN O'HARA: Logan.  
  
  Q. And where's home?  
 STEVEN O'HARA: Motherwell.   
  
  Q. (Good results here in the past)?  
 STEVEN O'HARA: I remember the first two rounds I gave an awful lot away on the greens. I don't know, I think I had a really good weekend. But it's not often I get off to a really good start in a tournament, and I usually seem to have a good weekend when I finish well. A good round tomorrow and then just try and get as low as I can.   
  
  Q. (What is it about the course that suits you)?  
 STEVEN O'HARA: I just know what to hit off tees and stuff. I think every hole sort of suits my eye. There's no tee shot out there that I don't like. You know, for some reason, I read the greens well.   
 So I think I've birdied every hole at some point, as well. So kind of good memories, rather than some courses you don't like a certain hole, and you blow shots away by just doing that, bad thinking.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 STEVEN O'HARA: I took my chances. I still missed four putts from inside five feet I think. I felt like I could have birdied every hole on the back nine, but at least I got a few. Seems like I'm putting well, looking at my stats at the end of the round, I made 35 putts. I feel like I'm rolling the ball well, but just holing nothing. At least I holed a few today, and a good 5-foot on the last there, that was nice.   
  
  Q. What do you think when people say that besides Colin Montgomerie, other Scotts are not doing as well as they should?   
 STEVEN O'HARA: You just have to stick to your own game. Obviously when wee Marc won here, it gave us all a bit of a boost. But you can't really -- it's a lot harder than people think to have a good result week-in, week-out. I think Monty was just amazing. Different league.   
 But you've just got to concentrate on your own game. I think we get a tough time on in general but there's a lot of talents. I think it's just gaining confidence with the Scotts.   
  
  Q. Do you feel that --  
 STEVEN O'HARA: I don't think you can call ourselves -- (inaudible). To get to The European Tour is an achievement in itself. If you look at the Top-10s between the Scottish guys, it's quite impressive I think.   
  
  Q. (Do you work with anyone on your putting)?  
 STEVEN O'HARA: Paul Hurrion. No, just try to get a bit more orthodox and just get more orthodox. Messing around, we are wonderful putters, and just try to get back to the amateur days and get a nice-looking putter and just stick with that and head out and make par basically.  
 I've tried everything. Belly putters, long putters, short putters, everything.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 STEVEN O'HARA: I think so. When you hit a lot of greens, you're going to hit a lot of putts anyway and when you don't hole your fair share, your confidence goes down a little bit. I'm not going to putt my best when I'm not hitting the ball too good, because you're having to get up-and-down.   
 I don't know, I think I enjoy practising my long game a lot more than my short game. Maybe I spend more time on the range than the putting green.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 STEVEN O'HARA: Well, I've been real lucky with the draw, so I think I was 14 out, so if the greens are ever going to be good, they are going to be good in the morning. Especially the front nine were really good.  
 But I think as the day goes on, and there's a bit of rain forecast as well, it may get soft and you'll see some footprints, and it may just make it a bit tougher.   
  
  Q. Do you feel pressure when you're not getting the results you're looking for?   
 STEVEN O'HARA: Rather than worry, I tend to get frustrated. I lost my card before, three years ago, on The Challenge Tour, and it's not a big deal. You can get it back. It's not the end of the world. So I think I learned a lot from that, that you don't get too stressed out.   
 Like last year I enjoyed The Challenge Tour; thought I was going to hate it but it was actually good fun. It makes you appreciate being out here more. It's just frustrating. I should have my card done and dusted easily. Just got to remain patient.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 STEVEN O'HARA: Well, everyone can probably play better. To have the perfect round of golf is pretty special to do that. You don't get that very often. It could have been a few shots worse, as well.   
  
  Q. Your brother, Paul, the Scottish Amateur Champion -- do you think he'll be joining you?   
 STEVEN O'HARA: I think he really deserves to be on that Walker Cup Team, as well. I can't believe he wasn't. I almost think it's disgraceful. His play this year and performances, and for a guy like wee Paul to be playing so well and so in form at the right time to actually go over there and play, I was just so gutted for him. I'm sure he'll pull his self together and he'll get through Tour School, no problem.   
  
  Q. The Race to Dubai --  
 STEVEN O'HARA: Well, hopefully next week, so if I can play well this week, and then I think I was sixth reserve on Monday for next week, so I think I should probably get in. And then if I can just -- you only need one or two good finishes, so if I can play well this week and next week, it should be okay.   
 I think next week is quite big money, as well. I think just one shot at a time and add it up. If I don't keep my card this year, it will be Challenge Tour or Tour School. And obviously try not to think of that, just go out and play. But I thought, well, if it doesn't go according to plan, it's not the end of the world.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 STEVEN O'HARA: I've not heard anything. I just don't know where they are coming from at all. I think there's seven English on the team. There's one that even in The European Team Championships. They are all probably really good players and deserve to have been there, but I think for Paul not to be on the team, I don't know where they are coming from.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 STEVEN O'HARA: He could compete out here no problem. Tee-to-green he's excellent. His short game's really good. He's got the wins up there, as well. He's got good instinct. I think he will be sorely missed on the Walker Cup Team.   
  
  Q. How old is your son?  
 STEVEN O'HARA: He's three weeks and one day.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 STEVEN O'HARA: You never know.   
 GORDON SIMPSON: Steven, well played today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT