BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 13, 2006
Steven O'Hara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You must be happy with that start?
STEVEN O'HARA:  Yes, but I did bogey the last. If I had made par there I would have been ecstatic.

Q. You sort of carried on from last week?
STEVEN O'HARA:  Yes. I hit the ball great last week and then carried on the same way today. I was four under after nine today and hitting it great and then didn't hit it as close on the back nine. But apart from the last hole I didn't really it a bad tee shot all day.
Q. What are your hopes for the week now?
STEVEN O'HARA:  Just to keep it going. I am hitting really well and not really thinking about too many technical things. I am just standing up and picking a target. I feel really free just now, and made six birdies today and it's always good when you are doing that.
Q. What has brought he game on in the last few weeks?
STEVEN O'HARA:  I am just trying to enjoy it a bit more to be honest. I have been playing well all year but putting too much pressure on myself and getting a bit down on myself. If I wasn't getting off to a good start I was getting into a bad mood and I never used to be like that. But speaking to my coach has reminded me of what to think about when I am playing well and that has made the difference.
Q. Scots tend to be naturally like that: they get down on themselves. Is that something that you are trying to move away from?
STEVEN O'HARA:  It is. I never used to be like that at all, but, for some reason, I have been really negative this year. If I don't get off to a good start I have been thinking 'here we go again' instead of trying to put it out of my mind.
Q. What do you do to get the smile back on your face?
STEVEN O'HARA:  Nothing in particular. It's really easy to do it here because all you a veto do is look around and see the scenery. Or you could be in an office staring at a computer screen. It's just trying to appreciate what you have got, rather than worrying about losing it and what you have not got.
Q. Is there extra satisfaction having a 68 like that on a course like this in front of your home galleries?
STEVEN O'HARA:  Yes. It's a tough course and my family are all here watching me. It's always good to play well in front of them.
Q. Colin was talking yesterday about how he feels a bit out there on his own in terms of the Scots competing at the very top level. As one of the guys coming through how do you feel about that?
STEVEN O'HARA:  He's probably right. I dare say there is enough talent and there should be more Scots in The Open. It's a matter of time. I think Stevie Gallacher and Alistair Forsyth could win any week - it's just a matter of holing some putts and getting the breaks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT