PNC FATHER/SON CHALLENGE
December 14, 2013
Sam Elkington
Steve Elkington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Steve and Sam, 30, 32, 62, 10‑under right now, just one off the lead.   You got off to a great start with four straight birdies.   Tell us how it was today. 
STEVE ELKINGTON:   Well, I could let Sam tell you, but we ‑‑ the best thing that's happened to us was that we played last year and Sam got a taste of it.
We probably played the most golf of a father/son team here.   We play almost every day at home.   We're very comfy.   If he hits it in the water or I hit it in the trees, it doesn't she shock us that much.
SAM ELKINGTON:   Yeah, we're used to playing with each other.   It's not a big deal to play with your dad.   It's really awesome actually.   We had a lot of fun out there today.   I did.   Elk hit some great iron shots, and I was good enough to roll them in.
STEVE ELKINGTON:   Luckily for us today our strategy was that Sam is a long hitter.   If he hits one in the fairway, I try to go for the fancy shot, maybe try get it down one side or the other.
Then I hit the irons in there close and let him sink the putt.   Make a good read and then let him putt.   That's the way it worked out for us today.   Good combination.
SAM ELKINGTON:   Yeah.
THE MODERATOR:   You made the four birdies to start and the eagle at 14.   Was that the highlights of the day? 
STEVE ELKINGTON:   Oh, yeah, I think so.   The biggest goal for all the fathers in the father/son event is to try to keep as much pressure off the son or daughter as possible.
That's kind of the overriding goal.   You would never want to throw them in the soup so to speak.   We were able to avoid that today, so the day became quite enjoyable because I didn't leave Sam out there on his own.
I can handle it.   Mark O'Meara and I, we've been through this before.   That was our goal.   That's the way it played out for us today.
THE MODERATOR:   Details on the eagle at 14.   Who hit the second?   How long was it?   Who made the putt? 
SAM ELKINGTON:   Well, I snap hooked my tee shot and Elk hit a great drive.   We got down there, and Where ever you go, don't go in the water. 
STEVE ELKINGTON:   No, I said, Whatever you do, don't go left. 
SAM ELKINGTON:   Hit it in the bunker.   Don't go left.   Snap hooked it in the water. 
Now the pressure is really on him to hit a good shot.   He just hit the best 3‑wood shot I've ever seen and I knocked the putt in.
STEVE ELKINGTON:   I said, Now, look, don't make me have to make this three by myself.   He said, Don't worry dad, I'm going to tap this one in for you.
THE MODERATOR:   How long was your putt? 
STEVE ELKINGTON:   Probably 30 feet.
SAM ELKINGTON:   Yeah. 

Q.   Sounds like the plan is you're the reader of the putts and he's the putter of the putts. 
STEVE ELKINGTON:   That's the plan.   I have a fair amount of experience playing all my golf in Texas and playing a lot of golf in Florida and knowing how to read the grain on the greens.
These greens are kind of tricky, to be honest.   They're not that undulating, but not that easy to read. 
So that's our strategy. 

Q.   You mentioned at the top the best thing about where you are today is perhaps because you played last year.   Was it a matter of playing and learning and being under the gun in competition?
STEVE ELKINGTON:   Well, I think more so for Sam.   He's only 15 and he's grown sis inches since last year and probably hits his driver 40 yards further than he did last year. 
Looking back last year, we actually did really well with you being 15.   I think we came about 10th or 11th.   We shot a good round on Sunday. 
So it's been fun to watch Sam's golf improve.   You know, getting into a big event like this gives him a chance to see all the other sons and put a lot of pressure on him with the cameras and so on.
It gives kids a lot of confidence and things they can go home and work on.   They can really be specific.   It focuses their attention to what he would have to do to get better for next year. 
I'm sure he already wants to get something better.
SAM ELKINGTON:   For sure I want to hit it closer to the hole.   (Laughter.)
STEVE ELKINGTON:   We were joking today that the young guys, O'Meara's son, Sean, they try to hit the ball over the wind and Mark and I hit the ball under the wind.

Q.   Sam, you've played this.   It's competition no matter what it is at what level.   Is it now in your head that this may be something you would want to do?
SAM ELKINGTON:   Yeah, absolutely.   Whenever you come out here and play a great round like we did you get a lot of confidence with what you're doing. 
Absolutely.   Makes me feel like I want to aspire to play college golf and see where it goes from there.
STEVE ELKINGTON:   He's worked hard on his game in a year.   Anyone that was here before will see the improvements.   His swing is great and he's made a lot of adjust.   He's improved a lot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT