NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 7, 1999
Katrin Dorre Heinig
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KATRIN DORRE-HEINIG: Thank you very much.

Q. Did you lose sight of the first two won the meant joined in? Could you see Fiacconi
or Fernandez after that?

KATRIN DORRE-HEINIG: I must say at first I thought I see the front runners later, so by
30, 35 kilometers. It was pretty -- I saw also Fiacconi from Italy, by 24 miles and I
cross over her. At first I am very happy about third place. After the raise I must also
say it was not right at first part of the race, not to run with Fiacconi and with
Fernandez in the front. I thought this is too fast by this condition, by the hard wind and
so I run in the group. And the first 30 kilometers I thought also every time I was stop
and go, stop and go, it was the speed was very slow also for me. I say you cannot run in
the front, so you -- so you need too much pace for the other girls and so the last 10
kilometers I run very, very fast. So I cross over the girl from Italy and so I could make
the third place. I think -- I hope the next time without so strong wind I know I can run
very faster. My feeling now is so good the first part in the marathon was too slow.

Q. When you can you tell Fiacconi, were you going fast? And she -- was she slow or was
it both?

KATRIN DORRE-HEINIG: I don't know the feeling about Fiacconi. I run my speed and I
cross over and I look never back and I test -- I can,, my speed, make very high, also to
the finish line. I look never back and I don't know what make Fiacconi - I don't also know
after the finish line where she is, one minute back me or 30 seconds behind me, I don't
know. This was not so interested for me -- I looked in front and my aim was third place.

Q. Do you think any time during the race that you would win; could win?

KATRIN DORRE-HEINIG: Before the race, yes (laughs). The distance between the first lady
and me was too big later.

KATRIN DORRE-HEINIG: Yes, this is right.

Q. Will you come back?

KATRIN DORRE-HEINIG: I hope for better condition. The temperature was very nice for me.
It was wonderful. It was cold, so I love it. As the wind, I thought the front wind was
every time, only the first two miles the wind from back, and then from front, so it was
crazy.

Q. You wouldn't have liked it like yesterday, though, when it was real warm?

KATRIN DORRE-HEINIG: Yesterday was too warm for me.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT