FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 12, 2015
Chris Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   See how the scores start developing across the second round.   Chris Smith with me here now.   Two really decent rounds for you, pair of 67s.   You must be pleased?
CHRIS SMITH:   I played well.   I hit the ball better yesterday, actually, but I putted really well both days.   And the golf course is starting to get a little fast and firm, and the wind is blowing a little bit more today.   Yeah, I'm real happy.

Q.   Slightly different conditions.   The wind is a little bit more of a factor, slightly with the temperature.
CHRIS SMITH:   It's getting firm, too.   I think it will probably play a little more difficult this afternoon than it did this morning.   The golf course is playing great.   The greens are perfect and I putted well.

Q.   In terms of your game, Top-10 in Puerto Rico this year.   What is clicking for you this week, these two 67s?
CHRIS SMITH:   Probably more than anything, just getting to play.   I haven't played a lot.   I played at the Byron Nelson a couple weeks ago and played twice in the last three weeks, which is nice.   Just getting repetitions and continuing to play, I'm starting to figure it out a little bit more.

Q.   A lot of guys -- what difference does it make to you, rather than just having practice, having competitive playing?
CHRIS SMITH:   You can play with your friends at home and practice all you want, but it's not the same as coming out here and having to hit shots and shots mattering.   It's difficult.   I hadn't played since Tampa and then the Byron Nelson.   I went to Dallas and didn't play bad but didn't play great.   Much more in rhythm this week.

Q.   Now, 6-under heading into the weekend, what are your thoughts looking to tomorrow? 
CHRIS SMITH:   Not much, you know.

Q.   Try not to think about it.
CHRIS SMITH:   It's fine.   I'm playing well and I'm looking forward to the weekend, and my game is getting better.   It's been a little bit of a turning point the last five, six years.   I'm starting to finally see a little bit of good play.   And so I'm going to enjoy the weekend and whatever happens happens and just try to keep doing the same thing.

Q.   How easy is it for you to do that, to enjoy being in the moment and not get too caught up in processes?
CHRIS SMITH:   I think 46 years old it's a lot easier.   You know, I think when I first started, it was more difficult, but, you know, I'm sure that there will be situations come up where I'll hit bad shots or make a bad decision and just do your best and move forward.

Q.   Nice playing today, great pair of 67s.   Wish you luck for the weekend.
CHRIS SMITH:   Thank you.

Q.   Rounds of 67 and 67, you're in minus six, Chris, how do you feel?
CHRIS SMITH:   Good.   It was fun.   I didn't hit it quite as good today.   I didn't drive it as well today as I did yesterday.   I did everything I needed to.   I missed it where I needed to and I putted well and, you know, it's fun.   I had a fun two days.

Q.   There's a weird sort of similarity.   Two rounds of 67.   Two days when you've had 27 putts.   Your comments on the greens.
CHRIS SMITH:   I like them.   You can look up my stats, that's not normal.   We played six holes today, and I looked at my caddy and I was putting well.   I looked at my caddy, 20 years later out here I think there's two courses that I can really see lines on the greens, and it's Puerto Rico and here.   For whatever reason, every time I come here, I can see the lines and I can do the same thing with Puerto Rico.   I enjoy playing here and I feel really comfortable on the greens and I rolled it really well.

Q.   You reference enjoying the course.   Speak a little bit about the conditions, because breeze up, very different to yesterday.
CHRIS SMITH:   It is.   It's one of the reasons I typically enjoy coming here, because it plays difficult.   It plays fast and the wind starts blowing, and you have to control your irons into the greens.   It gets fun.   It's challenging, it's difficult, and you know that if you go around and shoot under par, you've had a good day.   I've always kind of enjoyed those kind of golf courses and that's what's happening here.   It's going to be hard this afternoon because it's getting firm, the ball is starting to bounce and the greens are fast and the wind is blowing.

Q.   You're looking especially cool for as humid as what it is outside.
CHRIS SMITH:   I'm old, so I'm -- that's why.   I just feel good.   I've enjoyed the two rounds, and I was thankful that I got in the tournament.   And I played two weeks ago in Dallas.   And I hadn't played since Tampa in Dallas, so I was kind of rusty.   And playing two times this close, I feel like I have a little bit of rhythm and I know kind of what's going on with my golf game.   It's been fun.

Q.   Good stuff.   Get some rest, man.
CHRIS SMITH:   Thanks.

Q.   With the man who has been all about consistency so far in Memphis, pair of 67s.   What's been working for you?
CHRIS SMITH:   I putted well.   Typically throughout my golfing career, if I putt well, I'll play okay.   I didn't hit it as well today; I hit it good yesterday.   I hit my irons good, and my short game was pretty good and I putted good.   It's been fun, low stress.

Q.   You haven't been able to make a lot of starts on the PGA TOUR this year.   This seems to be a spot that you're comfortable with.   How helpful is that coming into this week at a course that you know really well?
CHRIS SMITH:   It's great.   I've always played here and I am comfortable here and I like the golf course.   I was able to play it at Dallas a couple weeks ago, which was nice.   I was really rusty there I kind of worked through that.   And to get to another start fairly soon is good.   And I kind of understand what I'm doing right now, and I'm happy to be here and I'm happy to be playing well and my game is pretty good and so it's fun.   I enjoy being here.

Q.   Pretty good spot halfway through.   Thanks for the time.   Back to you.
CHRIS SMITH:   Thank you.

Q.   Chris, 6 birdies, 3 bogies.   You look up and here you are sitting tied for the lead.   I know there's a lot of golfers still out there.   Good day.
CHRIS SMITH:   It was a good day, good two days.   Hit the ball a little better yesterday probably than I did today.   I putted good both days and hit my irons good today.   I didn't drive it as well.   I hit my irons good.   I've always felt comfortable here and I like being here, and I played here a lot and I kind of understand the golf course a little bit.   And I was able to play at Dallas a couple weeks ago, which was nice, and I don't get a lot of starts.   I was able to play twice in a short time period, and I think that's helped a lot.
I'm having fun.   I'm enjoying it.   I think this weekend will be fun, too.

Q.   For a guy who doesn't get a lot of opportunities, to make the most of an opportunity like this where you played well, that's got to bode well for what your expectations are for the weekend. 
CHRIS SMITH:   Sure.   Yeah.   It's good.   I try not to -- I think I probably spent -- the last couple years spent too much time feeling like I got to make the most of every chance I get.   And I think I had finally kind of gotten to the point that I just realized you come out and do the best you can and figure out where that is on Sunday and then when you get another chance to play again.   I'm not going to -- I'm not -- it's not life or death what I do this weekend.   I feel like I'm playing pretty good, and I enjoy being here and I'll have fun with it whatever happens.

Q.   You say you enjoy being here.   Success here hasn't come the last --
CHRIS SMITH:   It hasn't.   In all honesty, it's probably because I haven't had a lot of success the last three, four years.   You know, my whole thing has kind of been a journey.   The last six years, I've gone through a lot personally, which I think kind of affected my golf game.   And I think that I'm starting to level out a little bit.   And so I think that probably has more to do with it than anything.   I don't think that -- I still, even though I haven't played that well the last couple times I played here, I still show up and I have good memories and I know that this is a place where -- where I historically have felt comfortable and played pretty well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT