PUERTO RICO OPEN
March 7, 2015
Chris Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Take us through a little bit of that today.   Nice playing. 
CHRIS SMITH:   Yeah, I hit really the only hiccup I had was a hit a really good tee shot on the first hole and the wind didn't touch it and it got underneath the lip of the bunker and I got about halfway to the green and made bogey.   But other than that, I played good.   I'm starting to get comfortable playing golf against, which is nice, and it's fun.   It was fun.   All three days have been fun.   I'm just trying to keep taking steps.   I feel like I'm taking steps.   That's how I can sleep at night and all that stuff because I think it's good.

Q.   How do you build a rhythm when you don't get a lot of opportunities to play?
CHRIS SMITH:   That's a really good question, and if I had the answer, I'd probably play better.   I don't really know because I haven't been able to, and especially it would be nice, I can't get any Web events anymore because I'm like 120th alternate every week on the Web, so it's either play out here or not play, and I've tried to play a lot of Monday qualifiers because at least that gives me something, and I played the Monday qualifier last week okay and I played okay, but that's really all that I've been able to do. 
I don't know, I got here, and it seems like I play good here when I come here, and I'm comfortable here and I can read the greens pretty good.   I don't know, I like it, and I feel like I can kind of get a rhythm here. 

Q.   There's a handful of guys, seems like Michael Bradley comes here‑‑
CHRIS SMITH:   Michael Bradley, I was telling my caddie, which my caddie is 27 years old, he doesn't know who anybody is, I was like, yeah, he's won here a couple times.   He shows up here and plays good.

Q.   He's got good feelings. 
CHRIS SMITH:   It's nice, and it's one of the only weeks of the year that I know I'm going to get in, so I can kind of mentally prepare for playing for it, and when I get here, it's not like getting in Tuesday night and then trying to hustle to the tournament and then playing and I'm kind of in the mindset that I'm know I'm not playing.   I geared within last week towards that.   It is what it is, and play better and it'll take care of itself. 

Q.   What's good in your game?   What are you seeing that you're liking this week?
CHRIS SMITH:   Well, to be honest, my short game has gotten better the last couple years, and when I didn't play and then I came back, my short game wasn't very good, and I think when that's not good, then you're not confident, and I think my short game is getting better and I'm getting more confident, and like I said, I feel like I'm doing what I'm supposed to be doing again, and I've gone through five years where I felt like I didn't know what that guy is doing. 
I think I've always hit the ball pretty good, and I still think I hit it just as far as I did before, and I still feel like my swing is good and I worked hard at that.   I think it's really just been a mindset for me to get comfortable playing again and get some starts, and now I just need to keep playing because I know my skill set still is okay. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT