MAYAKOBA GOLF CLASSIC AT RIVIERA MAYA-CANCUN
February 19, 2010
Chris Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Chris, just talk a little bit about how much it meant to you to be back out on the tour this week.   
 CHRIS SMITH: (Indiscernible: too much wind.) I would say you're crazy. There's no way I'm gonna play like that good. But I got done, and I'm kind of disappointed, because I felt like I really had a chance to play better.   
 But did I good. I'm proud of the way I played. It was great to be playing again, and I look forward to the opportunity to do it again soon, hopefully.  
  
  Q. You mentioned earlier that 2-Under par at one point you felt like you were leading the tournament. How did it feel to have those competitive juices flowing?  
 CHRIS SMITH: Oh, it was great. Literally I made the turn at 2-under and I've got nine holes left. I knew I was right on the cut somewhere.   
 But in my mind, the way things were going, I'm thinking, I've got to be close to the lead, right? I just played better than I anticipated. And so when I do -- you know, I was 3-over early yesterday, and then I came all the way back and got it to 2-under. I just felt like I was doing some good stuff, and it was fun.  
 I think my dad enjoyed it. It was just a really good experience and a good start. We look forward to doing it again.  
  
  Q. And you had Jason Gore with you for a couple days playing, and then you had Jerry Kelly waiting on you at the end. Just talk about the support. You got some from your friends this week.   
 CHRIS SMITH: Oh, the support's been unbelievable from the PGA Tour, from the membership, from my family and friends. You know, I mean this in the most positive way, is that I hope the next tournament I can go to and just be one of the guys again.   
 It was great, because you see everybody and you can look 'em in the eye and say thank you and, you know, put an arma round 'em and tell them that I really appreciated their membership, and I'm glad to be a part of it.  
  
  Q. Hoping to get into Puerto Rico I think, and then your plans for the rest of the year.   
 CHRIS SMITH: You know, I wanted to see how this week went. You know, I feel good about the way the week went. I tried to get in Honda, and they didn't have a spot available.  
 I know that I'll run into that quite a bit probably since I didn't play half the year last year. Actually I was off to a decent start last year, and then I end up not playing. So my status is not quite as good as I want it.   
 I'm gonna try to get in some tournaments, and hopefully be able to get a few starts. And, you know, who knows, turn this year into a positive thing.   
  
  Q. All right. Great. Thanks, Chris.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT