FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
May 26, 2006
Chris Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOE CHEMYCZ:  Alright.  Chris Smith in, Chris 1 over par 71 today.  He had  5.  Talk about the difference between yesterday and today and obviously difficult conditions out there again today.
CHRIS SMITH:  Yeah.  Honestly, I didn't feel like I played that much differently other than yesterday.

Yesterday I made a couple of really long putts and that helped out, and I think the greens this afternoon were just a little bit harder than they were yesterday morning and made it very difficult to get the ball close enough to make putts.

But as far as the way I felt and the way I hit the ball and the way I played, I think it was pretty similar, just seven shots higher.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Yes, sir.
Q.  The good thing, maybe the conditions are such that no one is really making a run, trying to run away at this point, still kind of bunched up.
CHRIS SMITH:  That's a good thing.  I was hoping I'd make a run and get away, but since I didn't, I guess it's a good thing.

The golf course is playing so difficult that I just don't see it happening.  The round I played yesterday was very good.  I came back out today and still felt like I played pretty good, but quite a lot of people stayed close.

I think that's what's going to happen this weekend.  I don't see the golf course playing easier.  I don't know what the weather forecast is.  As hard and fast as the course is getting, it's going to play tough this weekend.

Probably trying to do the best you can and see what happens.
Q.  Does it surprise you the high cut?
CHRIS SMITH:  I saw that with a couple holes to go and I knew I was ten shots under the cut line, so I was in good shape.  But, yeah, for this golf course, for the cut to be 4 over, that is something.

I'm used to coming here and feeling like you have to make a whole bunch of birdies and the greens are soft and throw darts at every pin.  And it doesn't surprise me having played the last two days because I shot 1 over today.  I really felt like I played pretty good.

So, 4 over is a high cut.  The weather conditions, the way this course is playing after the changes they made, it doesn't surprise me that the cut went that high.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Anything else?
Q.  I was going to get you to go through some of your numbers.
CHRIS SMITH:  Started on 10, and I bogied on 12, but I hit two good shots on 12.  I hit the ball down the left side of the fairway right where I wanted to, and my second shot right in the middle of the green and 3 putted.

You're trying to be careful not to hit it over the green, and I hit my iron shot right where I wanted to.  Ran my putt past.

The next hole, driver, wedge and hit it probably close enough to make birdie.  15, I just left my drive out to the right little bit into the right rough and hit a really good shot.  It just got over the water, and I thought I had about a 10 footer for birdie and a long way over the back of the green into the back bunker and hit that out probably 7, 8 feet past the hole and missed that one.

On 16 I hit a good drive on 16, down the left side.  Hit a 5 iron on the front and two putted that.

No. 5, the best shot I hit on two days in No. 5.  Hit a great drive down the left side of the fairway.  Had 6 iron in.  Best shot I hit in two days.  Right in the middle of the green.  It hit high and soft and all that.

I still haven't figured out how to hold that green.  My shot, I probably need to start to learn it.  It's all the way to the back left.  My chip shot about six feet short and missed the putt.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Okay.  Alright.  Chris, thanks.  Play well this weekend.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT