U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2013
Jay Don Blake
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Jay Don Blake.   First round score of 3 under par, 67.  
   
 Q.   Do you think you left something out there, or were you satisfied?   
JAY DON BLAKE:   Golfers are never satisfied.   You know, but I, to start out this morning and shoot 3 under par today, I would have accepted that.   
So I hit it pretty good.   The only bogey I made was I three‑putted.   So hit some good shots.   Then at the very end, I didn't really execute some great shots.   Kind of got some funny spots and had to scramble on about three holes right in a row.   So coming down the stretch, I finished with some good scrambling pars.   So I felt good about it.  
   
 Q.   You've been down this road before, obviously, in a tournament on day one.   How happy are you with three rounds to go?   
JAY DON BLAKE:   I'm happy always putting a negative number out there.   I know we've got three days left, a lot of golf left, a lot of things can happen.   You just got to pace yourself and try to stay in the moment.   
Sometimes I kind of get a little ahead of myself and get out of the moment and thinking too far in advance.   I just trying to really stay patient and stay within myself and try not to think too far ahead.  
   
 Q.   How did playing at Merion help you prepare for the Senior Open?   
JAY DON BLAKE:   You know, it helped a lot.   You know, the rough, what they had out there is pretty ridiculously brutal, but out here is not too far off.   So you've got some good rough out here.   Visually, you're looking down the fairway, and you see the tightness of some of the fairways.   
So it helped a lot, and I realized, like I was saying with patience, I lost my patience out there.   I was trying to be aggressive instead of just executing one shot at a time and trying to play my game.   I got a little antsy and started doing things and making some silly mistakes, and so I learned quite a bit.  
   
 Q.   On the back nine, could you feel yourself tiring at all because of all the hills?   
JAY DON BLAKE:   Are you saying I'm not fit?   Just because you look like you do doesn't mean‑‑ I mean, round's a shape.   So I'm in shape.   
You know, these hills wear you out.   Fatigue, obviously, can come into play.   Not really, I didn't feel tired really.   I felt fine.   I tried to keep drinking some water, had a little Gatorade out there and had a couple bananas.   So trying to keep stuff in my system to kind of keep some energy.  
I didn't really hit that bad a shot to kind of feel like I was really falling apart.   It just didn't work out.   I felt fine.  
   
 Q.   You played with Roger Chapman at the Legends this year.   Do you think it rubbed off?  
JAY DON BLAKE:   You know, Roger's a great guy to play with.   Both our games are a lot alike.   We hit it about the same distance, hit kind of the same shots.   And he's a great guy, a lot of fun to be with, and we enjoyed playing down there.  
   
 Q.   Thank you.   
JAY DON BLAKE:   Thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT