THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 27, 2012
Jay Don Blake
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JAY DON BLAKE:   Well, yesterday was probably one of the best, prettiest days that I've seen over here.   It was a very enjoyable day.   Good day for scoring.   We were in the afternoon, so it wasn't too bad.   The temperature was fine.   We are out here in short sleeves and just enjoying the day and I played well yesterday.   So shooting 4‑under par, so it was a good round yesterday.   
   
 Q.   And yet it's not been pretty today?  
JAY DON BLAKE:   No, today has been a struggle.   Every shot is a grind.   We don't really have many shots that are ever downwind or straight downwind.   It's always across, in, left‑to‑right.   So you've got to really allow for the wind.   The ball is bouncing up.   The golf course has got some teeth out there, and it's chewing everybody up.   
   
 Q.   Presumably, you take a satisfaction with the way that you've battled against these elements?  
JAY DON BLAKE:   Well, you know, I played real solid.   Hit a lot of good shots.   Had an unfortunate double over there on No. 14.   Thought I hit a pretty good shot and just kind of trickled a little bit right.   Caught one of the slopes and rolled into one of the bunkers and dropped straight down and I couldn't get out.   Made double on that hole.   
Then thought I was going to make a birdie on 15.   Hit it close.   Missed it.   16, I missed one.   17, I made birdie.   And then 18 I finished with bogey.   So wasn't real happy with the way I finished.   But the way the conditions are, I probably would have taken the score.  
We can be disappointed‑‑ golfers are never satisfied, so what can we say?   We get inside, have a little bit of food and get happy with some food in our belly and I'll be satisfied.  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on Turnberry in general and coming over here for the Senior Open?  
JAY DON BLAKE:   I enjoy coming over here.   We have got conditions like this that's a different challenge than what we have.   We can roll them up on to the greens and bound them up on to the greens over there, they don't allow us to.   It's always pretty soft, so everyone is flying to the green and having the balls check.   It's a big challenge.   I enjoy the challenge, so I enjoy coming over.  
   
 Q.   And you like the creativity that's involved, the different shots that you're making?   
JAY DON BLAKE:   I do.   You've got to really be creative.   I mean, especially when we don't hit a lot of shots in the States like this over here, it's really not normal for us to hit a 5‑iron from 140 yards just kind of low and just kind of scoot it up on the green where you have to to keep it out of the wind.   We are not used to that.   
It's fun and sometimes we pull them off, the shots, and sometimes we don't.   So it's a good challenge.   
   
 Q.   And any tales of Scottish hospitality to relate?   
JAY DON BLAKE:   I have been pretty boring this week.   We are just staying right here at the Turnberry Lodge, and we just have been golfing, going to the hotel and no excitement for us.   Just watching darts.   We've been watching the championship darts on TV.   That's my excitement.   
   
 Q.   And you've enjoyed the Match Play?  
JAY DON BLAKE:   It's fun.   It's exciting.   It's amazing they can get everybody riled up for a dart game.   It's pretty entertaining.   I like the entrance that those guys have.   It's like the WWF that we have over there in the States, the wrestling stuff.   They get all excited.   They have got nicknames and got funny hair cuts.   It's entertaining.   But there's nothing else really on.   I'm not really used to not having a lot of choice on TV but it's a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   Would you fancy that in golf here on Sunday on the first tee?  
JAY DON BLAKE:   I don't think they would allow them into the property over here but it would be pretty entertaining having nicknames for everybody and dressed up in weird outfits.  
   
 Q.   What's your nickname going to be?  
JAY DON BLAKE:   Take me a while to figure that one out.   I have no idea right off the top of my head.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT