NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: RED WINGS v FLYERS
June 6, 1997
Joey Kocur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Did you have time to think about it?
 
JOEY KOCUR:  I thought about it a little bit, but I never actually had the chance to go over all the little pieces that have fallen into place this year.  I am sure in the next week or so, I am sure I will sit down and think about it. 
 

Q.  You have been in this situation before.  Does it make it even more special the way things have happened this year?
 
JOEY KOCUR:  I think the way things are going it is just special to play with this team again in front of these fans in this city.  This is where I started.  This has been my true love in sports was this town, so, I mean, you could never beat winning no matter where you are.  It is tremendous, but this has been a little bit more special. 
 

Q.  You know what is at hand tomorrow night.  Do you think you might have trouble relaxing tonight?
 
JOEY KOCUR:  I am sure guys are going to say they are not thinking about it, but it is human nature.  There is no way around it.  Probably most of the guys are going to have trouble sleeping tonight.  I mean, I had trouble sleeping last night. It is human nature.  It is going to be tough.  Off the ice is going to be tough.  But, when we get back on the ice, that is when we control our own destiny and we can relax and do what we do best. 
 

Q.  The March 26th game against Colorado, do you think it had a big affect on this team at all?
 
JOEY KOCUR:  I think the team grew as a family together that night.  That is for sure.  Like I said the night before the day is the most difficult.  When you step on the ice, it is hard to believe, but it is the easiest part because that is what we grew up doing.  That is you're job.  That is what we know how to do. We didn't grow up knowing how to speak to the media, knowing how to react to what we read and what people say.  We grew up playing hockey and that is going to be the easiest part. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT