NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 19, 2005
Larry Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  The defense on the play that they inbounded with nine seconds left, was Sheed supposed to trap on that play?  What happened on the play? 

COACH LARRY BROWN:  I guess there was miscommunication, but ultimately it's on me.  You know, we talked about what we wanted to do, and he made a shot, made a great shot.  After it was over, we still had a chance.  We're down one, we had 5.5 seconds.  But up two with nine seconds to go, you talk about the things all year that you want to accomplish, and unfortunately we had a little miscommunication.  You know, if everybody gets it, then you know you don't get in that situation.  If everybody doesn't, it ultimately falls on me, so obviously we didn't get it.

Q.  Coach, how big of a challenge is it now to go into San Antonio and winning those two games? 

COACH LARRY BROWN:  I have to get over this one.  This was tough.  We had a great opportunity.  One, it was a heck of a game, and you've got to give them credit.  Robert made some huge shots when they needed it.  They defended great and did a lot of good things.  It's the kind of game you hate to see anybody lose, so we've got to just bounce back.  We haven't won down there in a long time.  We've got to figure out a way to realize that we've got to make it a one-game series. 

Q.  Robert Horry so many times in his career has come up big in the playoffs, can you talk about his energy and the spark that he provide for the Spurs team?

COACH LARRY BROWN:  Well, he made five out of six threes and made a big drive late.  He did everything.  He defended well.  That's why I think he has five rings.  He's a big-time player.  In moments like that, that's the difference.  I have a lot of respect for that team and him, and what he's been able to do throughout his career.  You don't play on championship-caliber teams unless you have what he has.  He's done it with Houston, he's done it with L.A. and now he's done it with San Antonio, and he usually does it at the most important time. 

Q.  At what point during the tight game when you watched Robert Horry hit one three and then the other do you start stressing to your players, don't leave him alone? 

COACH LARRY BROWN:  We did that two months ago.  You know, you're up two with nine seconds to go, all you're thinking of is, no three-point shots.  Worst thing that can happen to you is a lay-up, you've still got two time-outs.  We've talked about it all the time.  A couple of them he made with a hand up, but two we just left him.  I have no explanation, but in big games, guys are trying their best.  He still had to make the shots.  Regardless, he still had to make them.  Again, somebody asked me something a while back about the fact that we didn't have any close games, what will happen if you get in it and if your team has been prepared for situations like that, and my response is, you do that from day one.  You know, every practice you go over situations like that.  It's not something that can all of a sudden because it's a 30-point game, go to a close game.  You go over those things every single day.  You talk about it.  We always talk about late clock, switching late clock, and never trapping because you know the shot ultimately is going to come up.  But again, sometimes things like that happen.  But he still had to make the shot, and you've got to give him credit for that.  My background, down two, I'm damned if I let my guy take a three.  I'm telling them nine seconds, we'll take it to the rim, get fouled, get a chance to offensive rebound.  That's how dumb I am. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT