NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 14, 2005
Larry Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What changed tonight from the first two games? 

COACH LARRY BROWN:  Well, I think we figured out how hard we have to play.  You know, their energy has been incredible, and I don't think we realized we were in the Finals against a great team that's unbelievably well-coached.  I really believe Ben started us off, he gets a dunk and a three-point play and a steal and he had five blocks in the first quarter.  I think that really gave us a lift.  And then, you know, just before the end of the third quarter we got an unbelievable run, McDyess and Lindsey, and from then on, we just played at an unbelievably high level.  You know, it's one game.  Now that game is over.  I think our guys have unbelievable respect for them and realize it's going to take our very best to make this a competitive series. 

Q.  Talk about the job your guys did on Ginobli, holding him to just six or seven field goal attempts. 

COACH LARRY BROWN:  Well, I don't know if it was holding Ginobli.  I think as a whole, you know, we defended great.  We got 23 points off turnovers, we did a great job on the boards.  You know, I think for the most part, our defense was set a lot better.  You know, I think if you noticed in the two ballgames there, they controlled everything.  We didn't get to the line very much.  We didn't shoot a good enough percentage to keep them out of a running game and, you know, they really spread us out tonight.  You know, we got back defensively.  We were set a lot better.  Then by us having some shots blocking, you know, maybe dribble penetration is not as evident as it was in the other games.

Q.  It seemed that there was a stretch there tonight where Chauncey Billups really got his offense going.  How important is it to get Chauncey Billups going and to get your team back in this thing? 

COACH LARRY BROWN:  Well, you know, I think anybody that's watched us all year, we do best when we have pretty good balance and I think obviously, he's a huge part of that.  He plays off of other people, I think, and we were able to get Rip off a little bit, which is pretty tough because Bruce is such an incredible defender.  McDyess came in and scored a little bit, which opened things up, I think for Chauncey.  Rasheed early, I thought we forgot about him the way we started.  But we have balance he has a tendency to get high percentage shots and he's as good a stand-still shooter as there is. 

Q.  You talked about Rip earlier, he maintained his confidence even with Bowen's defense on him, because he was getting good shots.  Any difference tonight, simply knocking down shots or did you do something to get him in a rhythm? 

COACH LARRY BROWN:  Well, I told him that I think the worst thing you can do against Bruce is pump fake and pump fake, I think you have to come off the screen and shoot it or deliver it, because he never gives up.  He gets into you with his body.  He fights through every screen, and I think Rip is a rhythm kind of shooter.  And I think the most important thing we wanted him to understand is to get his shots in that kind of situation.  Then, you know, he got a few off the break, which gave him a little confidence.  Early on I thought he was trying a little too hard.  But when Chauncey is scoring or other people are scoring, I think it opens it up for him.  You know, Pop even put Bruce on Chauncey a little bit.  But we can't exist without getting good shots, and most of our good shots come off the screen situations or making the extra pass.  We're not a dribble-drive or post-up team, so to speak like them, and that's where Rip is at his best. 

Q.  Is this another case of your offensive execution, got 47 percent tonight, helping your defense? 

COACH LARRY BROWN:  Yeah, I think, you know, since I've been here and I've said this over and over again, we defend better when we have good shot selection, with a chance to get an offense -- usually if you get good shot selection, you have a chance to get an offensive rebound, you have a chance to get fouled, but certainly a chance to get back and set our defense.  The only chance we have against San Antonio is not allowing them to get numbers on us, so I think that our offensive execution by far was the best tonight.  Or maybe it's the best it's been in the playoffs because of the quality of opponent. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT