NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 12, 2005
Larry Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Did Rasheed get fined for dissing the media yesterday? 

COACH LARRY BROWN:  I don't know.  I'm sure he would, but he told me he had, you know, nothing to say because we hadn't done anything.  So he thought he could say it today or he could have said it two days ago.  But I'm sure -- I'm sure he will.  I suggested that maybe we give it to his foundation.  I'm sure the league would like that. 

Q.  To his foundation?

COACH LARRY BROWN:  Yeah, he has numerous ones, and I think as much as he gives to those kids in the community, that would be a great thing.  That's what I suggested all the times I'm getting fined.  (Laughter).

Q.  You don't think they would suspend him since he's a repeat offender; they try to get the message through. 

COACH LARRY BROWN:  Well, if he would use an unnamed source when talking, but since it was just him.  He was mad because of the pregame, the preliminary stuff before the game that we didn't have everybody introduced together, you know, like all 12 guys and our injured reserve guys.  He didn't like that. 

Q.  In the previous series, you switched Tayshaun off and put Rip Hamilton on Dwyane Wade, is one switch enough to determine if you need to make that switch in the series?

COACH LARRY BROWN:  I looked at the film, Rip guarded him, Lindsey guarded him, and Tayshaun, we had a lot of guys, plus there were a lot of switches, you know, involved in the game.  You know, again, whoever Manu is guarding, you know, in transition or a missed shot, we're going to match up the same way.  Then there are times when Bruce was out of the game that he guarded Rip.  We've got to change up on the way we defend, I think.  We switched so much and again, I keep saying this, usually when we switch, it's to try to take something away; it didn't seem like that was the case a lot. 

Q.  You've had a lot of success in the playoffs with the Pistons in the first games of series, and going back a couple of years you've had success late in The Finals, now getting down 0-1, how do you approach it with your team and how do you feel your team approaches this? 

COACH LARRY BROWN:  We just know we have to play better.  You know, that game was a really difficult game for us under any circumstances, you know, after the Miami series and, you know, what winning Game 6 and Game 7 meant to us and how much energy and effort we put forth in that.  And then all of a sudden, to turn right around and play, you know, the best team away from home, that was a huge task.  Even if we had been well-rested and had time to prepare.  So we watched the films, we saw the things that they did great that we need to do better, and we're going to move on.  I'm going to say the same thing.  I write it on the board, "Play hard.  Play together.  Play smart.  Try to defend and have fun."  That will be the last things we'll look at and talk about. 

Q.  You mentioned the pregame hoopla, do you find that it detracts from the basketball or are you offended that there has to be all this glitz and glamour and entertainment before the game, and was it a distraction before the game, the 20 minutes that they had to wait?

COACH LARRY BROWN:  Well, whatever we went through, they went through, so I don't think it had any effect on the game at all.  I just think it takes away from our sport.  You know, I'm offended when they single out five guys, as opposed to 15 guys.  And I think this is about basketball.  You know, Pop told me, he had about four guys almost trip over cords, we had a couple guys almost stumble off the platform and somebody got mad at me because I was in the way of a cable (laughter). I got disappointed.  But I was asked about going out with Pop, somebody said, "Do you think that affects the way you guys compete against each other by going to dinner?"  I said, "Since we're going to have that kind of a thing before a game, we're going to have a banquet."  I suggested we have that.  (Laughter). Now I'll have money to give to Rasheed.  (Laughter).

Q.  Can you just talk about what you think you need to do to get your reserves going, and do you think you might even shorten the rotation a little bit after the way they struggled? 

COACH LARRY BROWN:  Well, if you look at it, I don't think the reserves on our team all series have gotten a lot of minutes.  That's just the way we've had to go.  I think we went deeper into our bench the last game.  You know, Tayshaun got in foul trouble.  But the guys that have played have really helped us get this far.  So you've just got to see the way the game is going and who is needed and foul trouble, injuries, whatever.  I've always maintained this:  Usually subs don't play nearly as well on the road as they do at home.  Maybe I'm wrong there, but I think that that's usually the case.  But, you know, our reserves didn't lose us the game.  They outrebounded us, outhustled us, outexecuted us, outcoached us in every area, and we were only two points down with 10 minutes to go in the game. 

Q.  Not to take credit away from other teams, but in general when you guys lose, is it almost always about what you're not able to do offensively versus any sort of defensive breakdowns? 

COACH LARRY BROWN:  Well, I think sometimes when you lose, you don't look at what they did to take things away.  Yesterday I believe Bruce played 35 minutes and I thought his impact on the game was enormous, and he was 0-for-6, no points.  I just thought they did an amazing job.  And then Manu in the fourth quarter was incredible.  I thought he played well the whole game.  Duncan was phenomenal.  They got great contributions from Robert coming off the bench and the way Nazr played.  There are a lot of reasons why they won the game.  I think the fact that we didn't get a lot of people involved, we didn't get a lot of easy baskets, in a lot of cases was because of what they did so well.  Everybody talked about them being the best defensive team in the league prior to this series, and I think they showed why they are a great team. 

Q.  You were just saying that the reserves don't play as well on the road as they do at home, is there ever a situation where you'll leave a starter in in the first half when he gets two fouls?

COACH LARRY BROWN:  Oh, yeah, if I think we're out of the game, if we got way down and I thought there was a chance we could lose it in the first half, I'd consider it.  You know, they asked me that prior to our Game 6 in Miami, if I would change up.  I've basically done this forever.  But I think if it gets critical and you think you're losing control, that's something I would really consider.  You know, we were up 37-35 at halftime, and sometimes I don't like to have players play strapped with fouls, especially when they have a key matchup in the second half.  A lot of times, you hope by the way the game is officiated you can get a better feel.  Sometimes if there's a lot of physical play and they are letting things go, then maybe you'll be more inclined to play a guy, or if the matchup presented itself where you didn't think, you know, the guy had to really defend an offensive player, maybe that's an opportunity.  But for the most part, I've done that my whole career.  That was, being Rik Smits on the road used to get two fouls in warmups.  (Laughter) So I think I probably started it, thinking that way with him. 

Q.  Elden gave you some nice minutes in the Miami series.  Is there any spot for him in this series at all do you think? 

COACH LARRY BROWN:  Yeah. 

Q.  What would that be? 

COACH LARRY BROWN:  You know, I think it would be tough with Robert and Tim, you know, the way they got get up and down the floor so well, the amount of screening, pick-and-roll situations they put you in with Manu and Tony.  But I think there's going to be a chance where he'll play.  He got us here and did an amazing job in the limited minutes he had in the Miami series.  And again, seeing how the game goes.  Last game, there weren't a lot of fouls called, only a couple of guys really got in foul trouble, Lindsey and Tayshaun if I remember.  But that's the nice thing about having Elden. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT