NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v HEAT
June 2, 2005
Larry Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Could you talk about, you joined USA Basketball and helping them out as well as a lot of other former players and coaches doing that, too. 
 
COACH LARRY BROWN:  I got a call from Jerry Colangelo about trying to get people that were involved back in it.  You know, it's been a wonderful thing for me to be a part of that, since I played in it and an old coach.  So I'd love to be involved in it any way I can.  I might have a lot of time on my hands.  I think all of the past Olympic coaches are doing it.  So I'm looking forward to being part of that.  
 
Q.  Could you comment on George Mikan and what memories you have on him and what his impact was in the game? 
 
COACH LARRY BROWN:  Oh, wow, I grew up being a big fan of the NBA.  A lot of the Knicks used to live in my hometown.  I remember Jim Pollard and Vern Mikkelsen and Slater Martin, it was amazing watching them play.  They used to beat up on the Knicks all the time, he used to kill me.  He was the first guy I think that they changed a lot of rules for.  Then I remember, you know, I was in the ABA; he was the Commissioner of the ABA.  He gave me a card at the NBA All-Star Game, forgot my name.  He was special.  Then it was neat, you know, going up to Minneapolis and seeing him at games.  I couldn't believe, he really aged quickly.  You know, when you're a boy you just remember what a special player he was.  I even think I saw the Globetrotters playing them, I'm not sure.  He was great for our sport.  
 
Q.  The thing with USA Basketball, that's a committee, a consulting committee, is that basically what your role will be with that?
 
COACH LARRY BROWN:  I don't know yet.  He just said they were going to have a meeting in Chicago, and I hope I'm not going to be there.  You know, told me that he just wanted to involve a lot of people that been part of the Olympic movement, and I don't know what the roles are.  I just told him I would help in any way I could.  I've got a lot of things to make up for after this summer, so I'd like to help.  
 
Q.  Kind of off-the-track question, what did you think about Larry Hughes' season with Washington and his contribution as a player. 
 
COACH LARRY BROWN:  About Larry?  Wow, he's going to make a lot of money.  I loved having him in Philly.  That was one of the tough, tough things that we had to do to move him, but he wanted to start and he was a young kid.  He ended up going to Golden State.  I think we got Tyrone Hill that helped us get to the Finals and did a lot of good things for us.  Larry had a phenomenal year.  That whole franchise, there's a lot of good, young franchises now, especially in the East with Chicago and you look here and you look at Washington.  There's some real up-and-coming teams, and I would hope that they could keep them.  You know, that seems to me like a great situation for them.  
 
Q.  You've always said you're not good at reading your team before going into games.  With the magnitude of this game, did you make any effort to get a gauge of where they are at? 
 
COACH LARRY BROWN:  You know, the TNT people came in to talk to me about it, you know Doug is there, Doug Collins, and they asked me that question.  I asked Doug, "What do you think?  Could you ever get a feel?"  He said, "Oh, I would hate to go in and look in the locker room, because you never know what they might be doing."  And now with the stuff they eat before the games -- I'm like him, I have no feel.  I know they care a lot.  I think it's been a great series.  This team has never disappointed me in terms of, you know, I think really caring about doing things the right way.  So I just hope it's a great game.  
 
Q.  Not in relation to your future, but would you care to comment on Mike Brown getting the job officially since you know him pretty well after all of these years as an assistant? 
 
COACH LARRY BROWN:  I don't know him well.  I know him through Pop and what Pop thought about him.  I'm thrilled that, you know, assistant coaches that have paid their dues get opportunities to coach in our league.  I look around our league now, you look at Stan (Van Gundy) and Lawrence Frank and D'Antoni, guys that have paid their dues and have been rewarded, especially kids of color.  That's why the league is so special.  I'm hopeful it will be a great situation for him.  Pop thought the world of him and I know Rick Carlisle and Donnie Walsh did, as well.  So this is hopefully a good situation.  
 
Q.  Along the same lines, Dan Gilbert went on record saying that you and The Cavs have had discussion and he's looking forward when your season ends to hopefully working something out --
 
COACH LARRY BROWN:  Well I know he didn't say that entirely, I haven't met Dan Gilbert nor have I talked to him.  About two weeks ago they asked for permission to talk to me.  Joe (Dumars) gave them that and I spoke to him and I told him what I've told you guys.  I don't think everybody has understood that.  I said I want to coach.  That's my goal.  When the season's over, I told them that I was going to go to be checked and if I could coach, I was going to continue to do that.  I haven't bought a house in Philly.  I haven't made any commitment other than to tell Joe I wanted to come back.  Our beat writers have written that, and that's my goal.  If I can't coach, I don't know what I'll be allowed to do, so I don't want to even speculate on that.  That's my first thing.  They have already talked to me about it and I told them the same thing and there's no need to go any further.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT