NBA FINALS: PISTONS v LAKERS
June 12, 2004
Larry Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  You've coached a lot of teams in the NBA, how does this team rank in being mentally tough compared to the other good teams you've coached? 
 COACH LARRY BROWN:  That's hard for me to  -- I would hate to compare teams.  But I do believe that this is truly a team in every sense of the word.  There's great respect for the game and their teammates, and I think what you're probably talking about is when we've had difficult times or difficult losses, I think there's a sense  -- their feelings for each other really plays an important part in the way we are able to bounce back, so from that standpoint, this is a pretty special group. 
 I know when I was with Philly and Indiana, the last two stops, I remember in the summertime, so many people would come up to me and tell me how much they respected how hard our guys played.  And since this is my first year here, I would sense I'm going to get the same kind of comments when this is all over. 
 Q.  Throughout the playoffs, you guys have had some difficulties dealing with prosperity, being up in a series and perhaps relaxing a little bit and not maintaining that level of play, how do you guard against that going into tomorrow? 
 COACH LARRY BROWN:  Well, obviously, I've failed in some of those cases, but, you know, I try to point out with each game that we should just try to understand, we've got to play each possession the right way and not get caught up in, you know, the game or the importance of the game or what happened in the previous game.  And I've tried to do that throughout the playoffs. 
 You know, it is a concern, I think, of every coach, especially after you have a big win against a great team to all of a sudden forget that they are a great team and maybe lose sight of why we won the game.  That concerns every coach, but, you know, I'm just going to focus on the next possession and how we can be the best at that possession and then move forward. 
 Q.  Yesterday somebody asked you about your team lacking superstars or whatever, but one guy in particular, Richard Hamilton, can you just address how his body work in the whole playoffs, how he has sort of risen to that elite level? 
 COACH LARRY BROWN:  Well, I think I said we do have superstars, but, you know, people judge superstars in different ways.  I always think they are the guys that make your teammates better.  Rip has just really, really improved.  I think it started playing with Michael because Rip talks to me all the time about the things that he learned from Michael.  Obviously, coming here and playing under Rick Carlisle, there were different things that were emphasized here that I think helped him.  Rick was a really defensive-minded coach, and somebody that was more inclined to have multiple guys involved in the offense, depending on who had the mismatch or who created the double team, so he learned there. 
 Then, you know, with me, I've tried to ask him to be a complete player in terms of sharing the ball.  But I think the progress he's made in every area, he's always been a scorer.  But now I think he's become more of a complete player.  He's gotten better defensively.  He's become a much better passer.  He keeps telling me what a great rebounder he is.  (Laughter) But I think in that regard, he's moved himself up, and, you know, when they were talking about the Olympic team, even before the first group was picked, his name was one of the names that was mentioned.  So I think that shows you the respect they have for him. 
 Q.  Coach Phil Jackson, just as he does in every series, pointed out that they were not getting a fair whistle.  Do you think that has any effect whatsoever on the next game? 
 COACH LARRY BROWN:  I know he only has one finger left to get a ring on.  (Laughter) You know, we have the best officials in the League in the playoffs.  All I know is they took 27 three-pointers in the last game, more than a third of their shots.  And you guys got on me for not fouling the 3-point shooter.  (Laughter) So, I just hope some day I can be just like that guy.  (Laughter). 
 Q.  If this turns out to be your NBA championship, how closely will this team and the job you've done represent what you're about as a coach? 
 COACH LARRY BROWN:  Well, I mean, we're a long way from achieving that goal, and I understand that.  I've said this numerous times, I mean, I know how important it is to win an NBA championship, and I know how special it is because I'm looking, there's only one guy in our league who ever wins it, and he's not happy with that. 
 But it takes a special group of players and a special coaching staff and organization to win one, and I'd love to be a part of that, because I think our team does play the right way.  I think you guys have all talked about that.  We defend, we share the ball, we play hard and that's what I was taught. 
 But, I'd be silly not to recognize what they do.  I think they play the right way.  You know, they utilize two great players.  They have won tough games, they have won away from home in crucial games, and to win a trophy, nobody understands more than I do how difficult it is. 
 But again, I look, as a coach, I want our guys to play up to their potential every single night and try to play the right way, and I think the only way you as a coach can get that done is if you have good guys that are willing to do it, and we do.  And I hope their reward would be an opportunity to win a championship.  That would make me feel about as good as I could be. 
 Q.  What went through your mind last summer when you saw Gary Payton and Karl Malone sign with the Lakers and give up millions of dollars to win a title? 
 COACH LARRY BROWN:  I thought it was great for our league.  I thought it was great for the young kids in the League that get so wrapped up in things that really don't matter, and to show what it means to win a championship.  You know, unfortunately, a lot of people's careers are judged based on winning a championship, but, you know, to know what Malone has accomplished in his career and what Gary has done in his career, to say that's the one thing missing, I want to go to a team that has a real chance, I thought that was what our young people needed to hear. 
 You know, it's a tough situation for me now because I really respect what those guys have done throughout their careers.  I know Karl and Gary, but, you know, we're trying to accomplish something.  We've got some guys, maybe their careers haven't been as special in terms of the effect they have had on their team, but Elden Campbell is something that has been as great a teammate and pro as anyone I've ever been around.  Lindsey is the only one on our team that's ever experienced that. So it would be pretty neat. 
 And I think if we ever did win one, guys like Ben Wallace, guys that are just hard-working, unselfish guys, maybe would send a similar message that Gary and Karl have. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT