THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2015
Greg Owen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. 69 today; your Open experience?GREG OWEN: It was fun.  I mean, it's been a tough week, obviously, with a lot of different weather conditions.  But I've played pretty well.  I mean, I scrambled really well this weekend.  Today was -- it was better than yesterday, but it's just playing in the right -- around St. Andrews it's hard to get your focus on the target you want to hit.  You really have to concentrate because there's so many things now and there's no real definition to where you want to hit the ball, and I think I struggled a little bit with that.  But I was missing in mostly the right places.  As I said earlier, I holed out well, so made some good pars, and then obviously finished with a birdie on the last again, which rounds off the day, really.Q. (Inaudible.)GREG OWEN: It was good.  I fully enjoyed it.  You know, it's The Open.  I love playing off this kind of turf, the hard turf.  You can definitely tell if you're hitting the ball well or not.  But I am ready to get home.Q. What do you feel you achieved this week?GREG OWEN: Just proved to myself that I've still got game to play out there.  Age isn't really a factor for me, as long as I can stay warm and keep my back pretty smooth, then -- I'm actually really happy the way I putted in the wind, and under the pressure playing The Open, I wanted to play well.  So that helps.  That gives me confidence there.  I've just got to -- we don't usually straighten the driver out a little bit, it's normally the other way around.Q. How much do you feel the support around the course?GREG OWEN: I did, it was great.  I mean, there's Forest fans everywhere in the world.  The history is huge.  And the fact that people know I'm a Forest fan, as well, is great, because I do love the team.  I've got the logo on my golf ball every week, apart from this week when they didn't ship them over, which is very disheartening this week.  But you know, I wish I could get to see them more, but I follow them and wish them all well, and hopefully we'll be playing Premiership football soon.Q. (Inaudible)?GREG OWEN: Yeah, I've been out there for 11 years now and was -- I feel I've done pretty well.  I've made a great living, don't get me wrong, but it's nice to know that people still recognise me because I'm not a household name.  I'm not stupid, I know I'm not a world beater or anything like that, but I feel like I've had a good career, and for me to follow me and wish me well, I'm really appreciative of that.Q. When is it going to be time (inaudible)?GREG OWEN: When I've finished this I will.  I've got a few plans, what I want to do when I finish.  I want to compete in a triathlon, as well, so I've got a long way to go for that.  But I love cycling right now, get to do a lot of cycling during the winter and off-season.  I'm as fit as I've ever been.  I've just got to -- just finish golf, get comfortable that the time is right, that it's time to finish, which isn't yet, and then do a few things with the family and the wife that I've missed out on these 20 years of play.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT