THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2015
Greg Owen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  GREG OWEN: I just don't think it's working properly, but it is what it is.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  GREG OWEN: You never know.  It was a tough day today.  Nothing went right at all.  I started on the first tee, as soon as I got on the first tee, the rain and the wind starts, so the waterproofs came on, played the 1st really nice, left it in the jaws for birdie, but from then on, it was just a struggle.  It was hard to get the right distances, and I hit two divots again.  Just had no momentum going through the round.  It was really hard.  I finished with a birdie on the last.  It was not a great day, but it's under par.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  GREG OWEN: I know, one was on a par-5.  I hit the fairway, which is the hardest bit on that hole, and then you're standing in a divot and I tried to punch a 3-wood out, and it just wouldn't go anywhere.  It looked like I topped it and I hit it right in the middle of the club.  It was just one of those things, things you deal with.  The course gets played a whole lot, and you just need a bit of luck, and today was just not that luck.  I hit a tee shot, tried to take a big drive on 10 and the only place you can't hit it is the bunker and I hit it straight at it.  It's like, come on, you've 100 yards and the only place you hit it is in the bunker?  It's been a tough day, but I feel like we've run around and we've been put on the clock, and it's been hard.  Just never got off to a good start, and then that momentum just kept going.  It was just tough.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  GREG OWEN: Well, yeah, you never know.  From what I saw on the weather forecast, it's going to be decent in the morning and rough in the afternoon.  If that holds up, stick a little 64 in there, you never know, you could do a lot of good things.  But there's a lot of guys ahead of me, and they'll be thinking the same things, as well.  I'm enjoying myself.  Today was hard.  As I said, they were rushing us around and I was playing as quick as I could, but never seemed to pick up on the group in front.  You know, it's one of those frustrating rules that they've got that ain't going to change, but we just keep abiding by them, I guess.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT