FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 14, 2015
Greg Owen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What do you take on a positive note from this week?
GREG OWEN:   I just didn't hit enough fairways today.   I played pretty good until 9.   I hit an awful shot on 9.   I don't know where that came from.   Just -- I didn't hit one that far left in my life.   I hit a decent punch-out, catch the tree, and then I don't get a shot to the flag.   I make a good 5 in the end, really.   I hit it in the water on --
Q.12.
GREG OWEN:   Yes, 12.   Made a 5 there.   Good bunker shot on 14.   I just left myself in awful position.   This bunker shot here was just, you know, I couldn't -- I hit a decent putt.   You know, it's been a good week.   I didn't play well enough to win a tournament.   That's all it is.   I played decently throughout the week.   To win you got to be special.   Fabian an proved that.

Q.   There were some real glimpses in the strength of the game.   The second at 7.
GREG OWEN:   Pretty good this one.   I had 192 yards.   If I could get a flyer, 8-iron up over the tree.   I hit it hard.   Hit it as hard as I thought I did.   Got a bounce off there.   You know, it's nice to putt well.   I haven't missed one inside 6 feet this week.   Might even be longer than that.   I putted for me extraordinary.   I didn't hole any long ones today, but very happy.

Q.   You said you got this one at 15.   At this point, did you think there might still be a chance after this?
GREG OWEN:   I thought I needed something to happen on the next par 5.   That was a great putt.   It looked in all the way.   It tried to dive out.   On 16, the par 5, I hit what I thought a really good 2nd shot.   Caught the bunker.   Misread the putt.   One of those things.   Played 17 and 18, played them really well.

Q.   Two rounds of level par 70, two rounds under par.   What do you do now in terms taking the next step and trying to reconsolidate?
GREG OWEN:   Obviously my swing didn't stand up all week.   Couple days it got away from me.   Still a little bit to work on that.   Mentally I felt great.   I mean, I haven't been in this position for a long time.   I thought I handled it pretty well.   It's a tough course and to not be in this situation for awhile.   It was a good experience and hopefully next few weeks and improve.

Q.   Getting back into that position, fine group coming down the stretch, that's a position we all want to be in.   You want more of that I'm sure.
GREG OWEN:   Yeah, that's why we play.   We say it now, but when you're actually in it, you're feeling it.   It means a lot.   We want to improve ourselves to ourselves and never mind anybody else.   You know, it gets the juices going, gets you really fired, and you realize what you miss when you're not in it and makes you want to work harder and get back there.

Q.   Sorry it didn't work out for you.   Best in the future.
GREG OWEN:   Thank you.

Q.   Greg, you didn't have your very best stuff, but I think in the end, second place, 9-under par, you must be content.
GREG OWEN:   At the start of the week I would have been -- I wouldn't have believed you.   I've shown no form of doing that for a lot of time, and to hold it together pretty much down the stretch, it was tough.   I've not been here for awhile.   I just didn't play well enough to beat Fabian.   He hit a lot of fairways and greens.   When do you that around here, it's hard to get close to the flags to make plenty of birdies.   You know, not the A game today, hit a couple shots which -- I don't know where they came from.   Lots to learn and I'm pretty happy.

Q.   As a golf instructor, I must ask, now I noticed a different look in the practice swing and different look in putting style.   Clearly there's been an uptick in the form.
GREG OWEN:   The putter -- I putted awesome this week.   I don't think I missed anything inside 8 feet, which for me I don't think that's ever happened, you know.   Just old feelings with the swing from back in Europe.   Talking to my old coach a few weeks ago, telling him I got to get back to those feelings when I was hitting fairways and greens.   For the majority of this week, I've done that.   Obviously I've got some more work to do.   I got some things to do.   Just shocks you a little bit when they come from nowhere.   You start questioning what you're doing.   To finish 17, 18 as well as I did -- I had a chance on 16.   I got a little unlucky on my 2nd shot.   Thought might spit left and miss the bunkers.   Give me an easy chance of making birdie.   Bunker shot was little duffy.   I parred 17 and 18 when I knew what was at stake.   I was probably struggling to catch him.   It could have been expensive.

Q.   Great playing.   Enjoy the week and look forward to seeing you soon.
GREG OWEN:   Thank you.   I appreciate it.

Q.   Greg, little bit higher scores Saturday and Sunday.   What made it tougher?
GREG OWEN:   The wind picked up in the afternoon.   Obviously there were some lower scores before.   When you're a little further back, you got to make birdies.   Little easier to be aggressive when you're up at the top of the leaderboard and people chasing you, you start getting a little bit wary.   Fabian played great.   He deserved to win today.   He played a lot better than I did.   Congratulations to him, and I got a little bit of work to do to improve a little bit when it comes down to the stretch.

Q.   Both of you guys kind of underdogs coming into this tournament.   Your last day you got a shot to win this thing, same with Fabian.   What is that mindset like for you?   What did you go into it today to try to do?
GREG OWEN:   I've been working hard, trying to enjoy the game again, and got to a lot where it was hard work and wasn't really enjoying it, you know.   156 guys trying to get in first position.   I've not done it for a long time.   It's been hard work.   So coming in today it was a little nerve-racking starting this morning, but once I got to the golf course, you start going through your routines and start calming down and getting into your job and just getting on with it.

Q.   Would you call this week a success for you?
GREG OWEN:   Definitely.   Look at my record this year and last year and the year before and two years before that.   Yeah, definitely big success.   Disappointed today.   I felt good.   I felt like I was swinging it well.   I played great the first eight holes and then just hit a couple of rookie shots which just set me back a little bit.
I got things to work on.   I'm going on vacation with the family next week, which is going to be fun.   Relax knowing I've still got it.   I can still play the game and still compete.

Q.   On Fabian, what were you seeing that he was successful with today?
GREG OWEN:   I think he hit every fairway.   You got to hit the fairways out here.   The flags are tucked.   You get a couple bounces off trees into the fairway.   You need that, you know.   He just played really solid.   His distance control was good and he was under control and couple of shots I couldn't match him.   I need to get back into position more often and get used to that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT