BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 5, 2017
Greg Owen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I know you're disappointed with that last hole, but still, a very good day for you.
GREG OWEN: I thought my tee ball on the last was in the middle of the fairway.  It clipped the right edge of a tree and went up the hill.  It is what it is.  I've played well, so I'll just keep playing, and hopefully that stuff won't happen again.
Q. What's the key to put that out of your mind to get ready for tomorrow?
GREG OWEN: It's one hole, isn't it.  It could have been an 8, 9, 10 or whatever it could have been.  It's three points.  It's no big deal.
Q. Going in early in the morning, what's your mindset taking the lead into the final round?
GREG OWEN: Early morning?  When are we going out early in the morning?  It'll be late tomorrow, I guess.
Q. Split tees tomorrow.
GREG OWEN: Really?
Q. Yeah, 7:30 to 9:30.
GREG OWEN: Okay, perfect.  Makes my day because my family are here and I can spend the afternoon with them.  That's what I'm thinking about.  I'm going to Colorado next week.
Q. Talk us through the importance of your family being here.
GREG OWEN: I've been out here nearly 23 years now, not in America but touring 23 years.  Every summer I miss my kids' summer school vacation, so to have them here with me is just great.  I'm coming towards the end of a career which has been long and tiring and grinding, and I'm just -- I'm not saying I don't care, it's just not the be all and end all anymore.  I'm pictures my shots -- I've done it all year, the putts have not dropped.  This week they're going in.  I'm reading the greens really well.  That's the only difference.  It's a case of I'm going to move on and let these youngsters take over because these hills are killing me right now.
Q. Having said that, if you win tomorrow, though --
GREG OWEN: Yeah, I'll keep going.  Whenever I can play, I'll keep going, but I'm not going to worry about it.  That's what I'm trying to say.  I'm not worried about FedExCup points or anything like that.  It's a case of I know what I can do.  I've been trying to do it all year.  My body is not what it was, so I'm just going to try and keep the same mindset tomorrow and execute my shots, see what happens.
Q. What does it mean to be playing this well in front of your family?
GREG OWEN: Well, I think I'm playing well because they're here.  I'm more relaxed.  All I want to do is go and play with them now.  I want to spend some time with them because my oldest will be going to college pretty soon.  15 years, and I've not seen her grow up.  It's been tough.  I don't get many years off.  Every year is a grind.  You have to come play these tournaments in the summer, and you miss a lot of family time, so I've got to try and make as much of it when I can.
Q. What would it mean to win tomorrow?
GREG OWEN: You know, I mean, PGA TOUR, it may be an opposite field event, but it's still a PGA TOUR event.  I've won in Europe.  I'd love to have this on my resume just to say I can do it.  I know I can do it, it's just doing it.  It's a case of don't want breaks like that on the last day.  I honestly hit that ball thinking it's perfect, and you end up dropping three points, but still in a good place.
Q. You birdie eight out of ten holes to get yourself in position.  Talk about your game today.
GREG OWEN: It was good.  Just felt good every time I stood over the ball.  I knew what I was going to do, and I executed it well.  It's very tricky to get them close on the greens.  Some of them bounce forward, some bounce back a little bit.  I got a few good bounces.
Q. Talk about your mindset coming.
GREG OWEN: I'm not thinking about it.  Honestly, I mean, it sounds crazy.  I just want to come and do my job.  I mean, this points situation, you never know.  A guy could come -- it's not like you've got a five-shot lead or having a point lead.  It's not like that.  I'm going to go out there.  I'm going to play.  I'm going to commit to my shots, and if the putts drop in, I believe I'll have a good chance.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT