AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 7, 2013
Greg Owen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just talk about your round today and what was going well for you.   
GREG OWEN:   Hit 17 greens.   Made a couple of putts.   Just hit it really solid basically.     Put it in play.   The greens were tough.   Missed two short ones the last two holes.   That hurt a little bit.   But good round, good start.   
Obviously the weather didn't play as much a part as what they said it was going to, but just played well.   Hit 17 greens, which is pretty good.   Some of the par3s played a little tough.   
   
 Q.   Was it a little tougher this morning?   Seemed like it got easier out here in the afternoon?  
GREG OWEN:   It all depends which nine you played I think.   If you played, let me think about it‑‑ a little bit of breeze.   Played a little longer, and the breeze picked up a little bit and we played holes like 10, 10 played long.   I've never seen it play that long before.   
So 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 played long, and then after that, the course played a little easier.   But you know, I think if you played this morning on the back nine, you had the best conditions and you played mostly downwind.  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on the season so far?   
GREG OWEN:   Just not scoring well.   I feel like I'm playing well but just hitting the occasional bad shot that's causing me a lot of trouble.   I never start the year really well.   Maybe this is my week that I get started, so looks like things are turning around again.   Love playing here and great amateur partners.   Just hole a few putts makes the difference.   Keeps your momentum going.   
   
 Q.   Historically, what's been the best course for you out here out of the three?   
GREG OWEN:   I used to like Poppy.   Nobody liked Poppy but I didn't mind it.   I think Pebble probably the best.   I always love playing Pebble.   You get days like today and you play Pebble, I don't think there's a better place on the planet.   I played well there.   
   
 Q.   Happy with your start?   
GREG OWEN:   Yeah, I don't see these greens getting any easier to putt on.   They are pretty bumpy today.   And they are only going to get worse.   So I'm glad this one is our first round.   Just keep going.   Got to play them all, anyways.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT