THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
October 18, 2012
Greg Owen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DOUG MILNE:   Greg Owen, thanks for joining us after a bogey‑free 6‑under 64 today Round 1 in the McGladrey Classic.   Just some comments on the round and we'll take a few questions.  
GREG OWEN:   Just played really well, hit the driver well, which I think is crucial around here.   Played a little longer this morning with the heavy air, but all in all just good playing conditions.   Greens are in great shape, and made some putts.  
DOUG MILNE:   Well, that usually will get the job done.   With that we'll take a few questions.  
   
 Q.   What happened at 11?  
GREG OWEN:   Yeah, I just missed the green on that fringe there.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
GREG OWEN:   Just a lob wedge.   I started nicely.   Hit a very good shot in there, but just made that.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
GREG OWEN:   From the fifth hole on, yeah, or my fifth hole.   First four I struggled a little bit.   I wasn't as clean as I wanted it, but after that I played really well, yeah.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
GREG OWEN:   Better than the last four.   I struggled for the last four, maybe five years.   I've just played really solid.   You know, I've putted better.   I've holed out better.   And there's still more to come from me.   Whether I can find ‑‑ I'm working hard.   I've worked really hard this week, and obviously it's starting to pay off.   So you know, just more like I expect.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
GREG OWEN:   Well, after last year on the Nationwide Tour, I was very disheartened with the game, wasn't enjoying it.   Being away from the kids and not really doing much, couldn't see the point; rather be at home seeing the kids grow up because I'm not going to make any money.   
Played really well at Q‑School, got through there and just thought I've got another chance, so hopefully I'm going to take it and stick with it.  
   
 Q.   Did you notice anything on the greens as far as the speed of them with the rain they got last night or anything like that?  
GREG OWEN:   They're still quick in places.   They put the flags in some slopes there that are sometimes questionable, but you gotta hit it on the right side of the flag.   A lot of times you have to shortside yourself to do that.   I think that's where they're going with it.  
Obviously I think the rain helped, you know, soften them up a little bit.   I don't know.   If the wind blows and the sun comes out this afternoon, those greens could get really, really quick.  
DOUG MILNE:   And just kind of a followup, what's your overall general impression of the course and how it played?   
GREG OWEN:   Well, it's great.   You gotta hit golf shots.   You got doglegs either way.   You gotta hit fairways.   As I said, you have to place the iron shots in a position where you can have a putt for birdie.   
I hit a couple of really good shots, but you're above the hole and it's just hard to be committed to hitting the putt, because you know if you get it in the wrong spot, I'm not used to that.   
A lot of the harder thing to really grasp with the pace is the practice greens are very difficult to judge pace on because that's how slow ‑‑ if you got a bit of fiery, you can see how it's running, but it's either really slow or really fast on the practice green.   So you don't really get a whole general consensus of how fast the greens are.   
DOUG MILNE:   Anybody else?   All right.   Greg, we appreciate your time.   Good playing today.  
   
 Q.   Good playing out there today.   Bogey‑free, 6‑under‑par 64, what was going right for you?  
GREG OWEN:   I made a couple of good up‑and‑downs early on, hit a lot of fairways, which I think is crucial out here, and then just hit it close.   Longest putt was probably ten feet, something like that, so you know, I had a couple of real good ones I left in the front door as well.   I just didn't quite hit it hard enough, but just played very solid, been working really hard, and starting to playoff.  
   
 Q.   Pretty perfect scoring conditions out there today, huh?  
GREG OWEN:   It was a little heavy this morning, so the ball wasn't going very fast, so it took a while to adjust to that.   But it's been beautiful.   It's a beautiful part of the world, and came out and I played nice.  
   
 Q.   And you got done early.   What do you do this afternoon?  
GREG OWEN:   Keep working.   It's the end of the year, but I still got two events to go, and I want to really finish this year off solid.   Just keep going, keep doing what I've been doing.   That's the main thing, and just trying to keep hitting fairways out here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT