ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 24, 2010
Greg Owen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. In with a 2 under 70 finally. Probably one of the longest rounds you've had to play. Mad a par on the last hole, just some thoughts on your round?   
 GREG OWEN: Yeah, I just played really solid front nine but couldn't make any putts. But really hit it all that close, which is nice and consistent. Then birdied 11 and scrambled for three or four holes and then played well coming in with a shootout on the last for birdie.   
 All in all pretty good. It was windy yesterday afternoon. So just nice to get finished.  
  
  Q. When the delay happened at 1:00 and you sat around for four hours, went home to your hotel. Came back this morning, were you out on the range warming up ready to play your one hole today? Then they obviously called it a game because of a threatening situation, finally got out there. What's it like when that sort of stuff happens?   
 GREG OWEN: It's just frustrating all this. Then coming out at 5:00 this morning to play one hole of golf. Now we have all day we don't know what's going to happen. So we're just hanging around. Probably head back to the hotel now, don't know there's much point in hanging about. The weather's supposed to get worse on the radar, but looks like it's staying off us right now.  
  
  Q. So now that you've finished at 8:30 in the morning, likely tee time would be 4:30 this afternoon at best if we get no rain. If we get more, it is probably unlikely that you'll play today. So just go back and enjoy yourself, I guess?  
 GREG OWEN: Exactly, just try and relax and look forward to tomorrow. Obviously tomorrow will be pretty humid and hot with all the moisture in the ground. So just try and relax and get some energy. So that would be my best scenario just have today off now and play tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Are you going to try to enjoy anything around New Orleans, some of the food or sights on Bourbon Street, maybe the muddy Jazz Fest?   
 GREG OWEN: No, it's going to be pretty muddy out there. Just chill out and relax. We can't really say we're not playing until tomorrow, so we have to hang about and see what's going on and be ready to play when we can.  
  
  Q. You played good last week early in the tournament. Looks like you've come into some form.   
 GREG OWEN: Yeah, justify playing my game a little bit. Just putting better, so that obviously helps. You know, just need to get my year kick started. So just working hard and trying to get some good tournaments under my belt.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT