VERIZON HERITAGE
April 16, 2010
Greg Owen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   GREG OWEN: I've been feeling great this week. It's nice to start playing well, and I love coming here. The putter is behaving itself so far this week. The wind picked up and made it tough this afternoon, but all in all I played some nice golf. 

 Q. Were you at all surprised that someone didn't get it to 9 or 10 throughout the course of the afternoon?
 GREG OWEN: No.

 Q. Really?
 GREG OWEN: Yeah. Different wind, we've not played it all week. Some of the flags on little slopes are a little difficult to get to with the direction of the wind. I think it played pretty tough out there. It's not just the constant wind, it's the swirling, as well, and it's hard to get close to some of these flags.

 Q. You're obviously playing well. You must have found something this week?
 GREG OWEN: Yeah, I've just been more solid over the ball and committing to shots, that's the main thing. It's seeing the shot and hitting it.

 Q. Does the fact that this golf course dictates the shots to you help? It sort of takes a lot of the guesswork out? Here it is, can you do it, is basically the question this golf course asks?
 GREG OWEN: Exactly. You don't have to visualize the shots very hard because the course will do it for you. It's easy to know, I've got to hit a draw or hit a fade here, and the picture is right in front of you. When you're struggling with your game, your head is not that clear to make a decision, you end up not making any shots. So probably a good time for me to play here and try to find some of my game. 

 Q. Keep it going this weekend. 
 GREG OWEN: Appreciate it that, thank you. 

 Q. Sharing the lead for 36 holes, how confident are you with your game now?
 GREG OWEN: For this year so far, not that great thus far. I've kept it in play and hit some really good shots on some tough holes today with the wind. I'm looking forward to the weekend.

 Q. Why is it? Because of the venue, is it the fact it fits you?
 GREG OWEN: It's a good course for me, it's fairways and greens. It's shaped well. It shows you where to go. You've got to strike the ball well and put it in position and make a couple of putts.

 Q. (Indiscernible.) What do you need to do? So many guys are within striking distance, 40, 50 guys?
 GREG OWEN: Yeah, it's pretty bunched up there, but as I said earlier, this wind, it makes it that way. It's hard to get to some of these flags. You've got to put it in the right position. And sometimes you're up and down on the slopes for the greens. The weather dictates this. Obviously we're going to have sun this weekend, it depends on what the wind does. It picked up this afternoon and played a couple of shots harder.

 Q. This is the most bunched up Friday as far as cuts made all year on Tour. There are guys potentially that may (indiscernible.)
 GREG OWEN: Yeah, I mean it is strange, but it's that kind of golf course. You feel like you should be getting at it, but you've got to be careful, there's danger everywhere. You hit one just a little out right and you've got the trees to contend with and you've got tight greens, as well. I wish they'd make the greens smaller on all the venues, never mind the grooves, now, make the greens smaller and you'll get your more accurate players (indiscernible.)

 Q. It's been a while since you were in the last or next-to-last group on Saturday?
 GREG OWEN: It's been a while since I played on a Saturday. I'm just trying to play well.

 Q. Mentally what is it going to feel like? Virtually everyone that made the cut is going to have a chance to win this golf tournament on the weekend?
 GREG OWEN: Well, it will come down to Sunday afternoon. And tomorrow just think about playing nicely and get in position to Sunday and then going from there. 
 The weather will dictate, the wind will dictate what the scores will be tomorrow, and then we'll go from there and take it from there.

 Q. What's been your strength these two days to get you to 7-under for the week?
 GREG OWEN: My distance, control, more than anything. I've been striking my irons well and putting myself in positions where I don't make too many mistakes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT