CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK CLASSIC
November 12, 2009
Greg Owen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Greg, you adjusted. Your best ball wasn't really all that much better because you kept birdieing the same holes. 
 GREG OWEN: Yeah, we did. It was a case of when one was hitting close, the other was hitting close. Apart from a couple of putts that Justin holed more than me, we both played really well. 

 Q. What's working right for you? You started working with Sean Foley, I know. Is that helping?
 GREG OWEN: You know, we just discussed the shot it looked like he's got, and everything's come together with the swing. I hit a lot of close shots today and I feel comfortable, and I'm hitting shots further. Just changing stance and stuff like that. 
 He's very easy to work with and very easy to take what he says and just let it go, so that's what I'm doing. I hit a couple of loose shots around the turn, 8 and 9 off the tees, but other than that, I hit a lot of good shots, a lot of good irons, just didn't fall in the hole. 

 Q. And still hit a 66. 
 GREG OWEN: Longest hole was eight feet. 

 Q. Oh, goodness. 
 GREG OWEN: Yeah. I had a lot of chances, and you know, it is what it is. 

 Q. Any radical changes you made in your swing?
 GREG OWEN: No, not really. It's just posture. I've always struggled with posture, had back surgery a few years ago. I've got a lot of imbalances, and just working on posture and obviously changing release balls from there, but I'm still hitting the ball really solid. And the long chain got out, a little less spin and the ball got off. 

 Q. Did you wake up this morning knowing you were going to have to bring a sweater or did you grab one out of the house? Actually you were lucky being out there, you're a home guy. At least you didn't have to pack one. 
 GREG OWEN: If I'd come out without being prepared, somebody would need to shoot me, but actually Sean gave me an idea of how cold it was. We needed a parka first thing, and I've been comfortable today. I've got a long sleeve shirt and sweater on. 
 It's unusual, very unusual. A couple of weeks ago it was 95 degrees. It's a nice change and hopefully it'll warm up a little bit. 

 Q. Good luck at Magnolia. 
 GREG OWEN: Thanks. Appreciate it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT