FRYS.COM OPEN
October 23, 2009
Greg Owen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Greg Owen into the interview room after a 6-under par 64. Greg, that was quite a day. Five birdies in the first six holes, and then the eagle on 16, as well. Just comment on some great play.
 GREG OWEN: Yeah, hit it stiff on the first hole with a wedge. Um, trying to think of the holes. (Laughing) then holed a nice putt from like 15, 18 feet. Another one 15 feet, and then got a reachable par-5, which somehow made six on. 
 Got in the fairway bunker -- sorry, in the greenside bunker and caught it a little clean and just went over the back. Hit a little pitch which I thought was perfect, and it ran 15 feet. Very disappointed, but bounced back well.
 Then on 9, just hit it pin high and just pulled it a little bit. Hit a putt again I thought was gonna be good, and actually went off the green. That flag is a little questionable, I believe. A few guys doing that. 
 Then obviously, you know, 15 was the icing on the cake. Just went straight in the hole, which was a good feeling.
 JOHN BUSH: Sounds like solid ball striking for you all round. 
 GREG OWEN: Well, yeah, I didn't miss a green yesterday, and I hit plenty today. I've actually played really, really well. There are a few opportunities -- I'm not gonna talk about them really, but there are a few opportunities I missed, as well. You know, 17 I had six feet and missed. 
 There were a few putts out there, but I holed a few at well, which was great.
 JOHN BUSH: All right. Questions. 

 Q. What would it mean for your career to hang on and win this now? 
 GREG OWEN: First of all, good week would mean I've got a job for next year. That's the first thing. Winning the tournament will obviously -- you know, I've been around a long time. I won a tournament in the U.K., the British Masters. Winning on the PGA Tour would mean a lot. I had my chance at Bay Hill, which, you know, I think everyone knows what happened there.
 It would be great, you know, to come over here and bring my family over here and be successful here would be everything. 

 Q. Is it hard to commit being from Australia, Okay, I want to try this?
 GREG OWEN: Even easier, because I'm from England.

 Q. Oh, sorry. 
 GREG OWEN: Is it hard? The best players in the world come over here and play the best golf courses for the most amount of money. Quite easy to make that decision. 
 It was hard to actually adapt to coming over here more my wife and my family more than it was for me. Obviously I'm playing golf all the time. We've got no family or real long-term friends over here, so that was an issue. 
 But, you know, we're very happy now over here. One of our kids, our oldest are at school, and she's very happy here. We want to make a living on it, and we're quite happy. We've got our green card out here now, so we're very happy.

 Q. Where are you at on the list, 125? 
 GREG OWEN: 116. I've got a little bit of leeway. Yeah. I'm just trying to play well at the weekend. It'll take care of itself. 

 Q. Is that how your mindset has been...
 GREG OWEN: It's been my mindset set for the last -- it's crazy, you know. I finished 77 on the FedExCup and I'm fighting for my card. It goes to show FedExCup pays for consistency. Getting your card just means having a few good weeks. 
 So I'd like to finish this one off. I just want a chance at giving myself more chances next year. That's the main goal. I got jobs to do this weekend. 

 Q. How does the course set up for your game?
 GREG OWEN: I'm driving the ball well and hitting plenty of greens. That's obviously a great start. Greens are very grainy. Coming from England, it's hard to adapt. I do live in Orlando, and there are grainy greens there. It's just the amount of grain and when I it's gonna take it. The putt I had on 9 was downgrain, and I thought I hit a really good putt. I putted it 20 feet off the green, 20 feet past the hole and just off the green. 
 So adapting to that is a little different. But game is in great shape. Just gotta keep doing what I'm doing and not get result-orientated and play and try to relax. 
 JOHN BUSH: Greg, great work through two rounds. Keep it going this weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT