84 LUMBER CLASSIC
September 16, 2006
Greg Owen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LAURY LIVSEY:  We'd like to welcome Greg Owen into the interview room.  Some opening comments about your day today?  You're one of three guys at 11 under.
GREG OWEN:  Yeah, playing really well, making lots of chances, I'll take a few more tomorrow.  I still have to figure that out tomorrow.  These greens are really tricky to read, just try and stay patient, just finish the round off nice.
LAURY LIVSEY:  Talk about how things changed a little bit this morning when you were playing off the one tee in twosomes and then changed with the fog.
GREG OWEN:  It was only 40 minutes or so for me.  It's really slow out there and it's not much fun playing that front nine in three hours.  It's a shame, but hopefully it'll speed up a little bit tomorrow.  But the course is great, and it's playing well at the moment.
Q.  Is it slow just because there were too many players on the course at once?
GREG OWEN:  You tell me.  I have no idea why it's so slow.  We played yesterday and we teed off the first two holes, it was taking 50 minutes to play two holes, 10 and 11.  And today    I just don't know.  There's plenty of holes out there.  I don't know why it should start off as slow as it does.  Obviously something has gone wrong somewhere.  I don't know why it's so blocked up.
Q.  Did you have to wait on almost every hole?
GREG OWEN:  We were waiting 20 minutes on the first three holes.  We got over the hill at the 1st and they hadn't even teed off.  So 20 minutes there.  We then get on the next par 3, wait 20 minutes there.  We then played 4th hole, not too bad, then waited again at the 5th.  It just keeps going back and forth.

Obviously the reachable par 5s are holding everything up.  I don't know whether it's the lift, clean and place or casual water or what, or whether these greens are just a little trickier and tough to read.  But it's certainly slow out there.
Q.  After your near miss at Bay Hill, how excited are you to be back in the hunt with a chance to make it go better this time?
GREG OWEN:  Well, it was a long time ago.  I've had problems this year with health and fitness.  I just want to get out and play well tomorrow and see what happens, try and not make any mistakes like I did last time and just go out and play a solid round of golf like I did today.
Q.  Is Bay Hill kind of gone?
GREG OWEN:  Yeah, it was gone about six months ago.  I still think about it.  I'd say I still think of a lot of good shots, as well.  It's one of those things that's always going to be with me, but I'll just try not to repeat it.
Q.  Do you think you have to go really low tomorrow?
GREG OWEN:  No, I'm just happy I'm going out tomorrow without any pain.  It's nice to play and not worry about if I'm going to finish the round.  These last three weeks have been like bliss for me.  I'm just happy to be in this position and go out and try and play well again.
Q.  With several guys in the hunt that have not won, how do you think that will affect what goes on tomorrow?
GREG OWEN:  It won't make any difference.  I think there's a lot of good players out here, and they have the ability to play well, so they're probably going to play well again tomorrow.  If they hold themselves together then everyone has got a chance to win, so we'll see who can make the putts at the right time.
LAURY LIVSEY:  Greg, thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT