BAY HILL INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 19, 2006
Greg Owen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOE CHEMYCZ:  We welcome Greg Owen to the interview area. Greg, I know it's a difficult way to finish a good week for you, but if you would, just talk a little about your day today and then towards the end of the day.
GREG OWEN:  Well, I couldn't play better than that.  I played really well.

I did real great until 17.  I hit a good shot on 17, and, I don't know, just lack of concentration and throw away a tournament.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Talk about the tee shot first at 17.
GREG OWEN:  I hit a great shot.  I hit it right on line, just I need another inch and it's next to the hole; little breaks.  I should still be making 3, but I hit a great shot, and, you know, you can accept missing the first putt, but just to throw away a shot like that after the hard work you've done all week is just stupid.  That's what I've done.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Was it a question of just getting up there to quick for that second one?
GREG OWEN:  I have no idea.  I can't even remember.
Q.  How do you deal with that this how?
GREG OWEN:  I don't know.  I'll find out tonight, but it's not going to be easy.  You know, you don't get many chances to win on the PGA TOUR and on a great golf course like this.  I had it in my pocket.  It was there and I threw it away.  So we'll find out.  Play again next week and see what happens there.
Q.  Were you a little bit shocked the way things turned on 13 and then does that make the shot on 17 even more
GREG OWEN:  I've been calm all week.  I've been calm today.  I was very relaxed.  I just kept picking a shot and trying to hit it, and I did it nearly all day and then    you know, I don't know.  There was nothing fazed me.  I just got on with it.  I can't say a got nervous on that putt.  I just moved on it, I got quick on it, I just lost concentration.  You know, I can't say anything else, it was just one of those silly mistakes that I'll be remembered for, you know.
Q.  You came back with a really good putt on 18?
GREG OWEN:  I can't believe that missed.  One of them things where it just kicks you in the teeth.  I hit the best putt of the day there, and you see it going in and the next thing you turnaround and you come out and it's like, how is it done.  It's just one of them things where you say, well, it wasn't meant to be.
Q.  Can you talk about how difficult it was, if it was, to hit the tee shot on 18, and get yourself over the second shot?
GREG OWEN:  I thought my tee ball was in the rough, so I got away with that one a little bit.  I think I quickened up a little bit.
Q.  Hard to settle yourself?
GREG OWEN:  I was okay.  I was pretty focused.  Just the heart was just racing a bit quick, tempo sort of got up a little bit.  I just got handsy on the tee ball and second shot, I wasn't comfortable with the yardage, thought it might float a little into the wind and just get a little extra and turn it as well.  But I had a good putt for a playoff and missed it.
Q.  What was the club and yardage on 17 and 18?
GREG OWEN:  17, I can't remember.  I hit 3 iron.  18, 180 to the flag I think and I hit 6 iron.
Q.  The bunker shot
GREG OWEN:  I didn't hit the greatest bunker shot.  I hit it okay, it was a very tough bunker shot, I left myself nearly a straight putt up the hill and hit a great putt.  So, you know, it all comes down to my putting again.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT