DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
March 5, 2004
Greg Owen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GORDON SIMPSON:  It wasn't much fun crawling out of bed at 5:00 this morning, but you must be quite contented after a 65.
GREG OWEN:   Yeah, didn't sleep very well last night, my little girl     I think got a bit carried away with it.  So I didn't get much sleep.  Played in the Pro Am this week with a head cold.  Didn't feel too good on the first few holes and the first round yesterday were a bit of a struggle, but came out and played in the second round.
GORDON SIMPSON:  You did well on the par 5s.
GREG OWEN:   Yeah, I think I birdied them all, hit them all in two.  I've driving the ball really well.  Get starting to feel like  I'm hitting really solid and keeping it in play which around here is obviously important.
Q.  What was the key for you today, do you think, what clicked for you?
GREG OWEN:   I just found something in my swing which has been missing for probably a year and a half now.  I found that in Australia in Melbourne.  It just got me feeling confident over the ball and being able to stand there and hit it without thinking.

I'm driving it well.  I hit it close quite a few times.  I missed only probably three makeable putts from four or five feet.
Q.  In layman's terms what is the thing?
GREG OWEN:   It's kind of strange but I feel when I stand up to the ball, I guess all I have to do is make sure     my left heel is turned out to the hard     feel like I'm going to hit it straight out.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Have you been working out?
GREG OWEN:   Over last two years three years, I was in the gym constantly, four or five times a week, trying to build up what you think is strength and I don't think it really did me any good, really.  Took me a while to get off.  If you don't keep it up throughout the year, the second half of the year, I've really struggled the last couple of years.  So just trying to play a bit more golf.
Q.  The gym work, did you feel you were getting slightly muscled down, was that the problem?
GREG OWEN:   Yeah, a little bit.  I worked out really hard in the winter and   tried to build up muscle to support that.  I just felt that     I just felt that     it felt like I was reaching a limit where at the start of the year, I felt really strong coming out, but when I couldn't maintain it through out the year I felt like it got below where I wanted it.  And I really felt tired at the end of the year because the muscles just didn't have any energy do them and I wore them all out in the winter.  That's how I felt.  I'm no physio or anything like that, I don't know whether that makes any sense or not, but that's how it felt like.  I felt like I was at least level of fitness.
Q.  Bradley Dredge considered himself one of the many Europeans chasing a Ryder Cup spot this year, is that how you see yourself?
GREG OWEN:   I've been look at Ryder Cup points the last six months and can't figure them out, so just keep trying to play.  I'm trying to improve my World Ranking as much as I can, and every time I take one step forward, I take two steps back and I just cannot seem to move forward.  I finished 7 in the Heineken and I move up seven spots.  The week after I finish 50th and I drop back 15.  I finished fourth in the Open last year and moved up four spots.  I don't know at the moment     we're competing with the size of the World Ranking points on the American tour.  I didn't play in South Africa and moved up 12 spots.  It doesn't make sense.  I just think if you can get these world events, you can't move up into the top 60 in the world and I just seem to be getting close and then dropping back very quickly.

So Ryder Cup will come if I play well.  I just have to start playing well.
Q.  With Tiger and Ernie here, it does mean you'll get lots of points if you do well?
GORDON SIMPSON:  46 points.
GREG OWEN:   46 points, that's fantastic     that's nearly double.  And the money was quarter of a million for winning in the British Masters last year.  It's such a big difference on who played, and obviously there's a lot more Americans in the Top 100, so they are going to be a lot stronger.
GORDON SIMPSON:  In Florida this week, they have 32 points for first since the world's No.  1 and 2 are here.
GREG OWEN:   We try and play and try and compete but I don't know how we can.  It's just something you're conscious of.
Q.  Is it something you're conscious of specifically here because there are so many more ranking points than normal?
GREG OWEN:   You just have to play and play the game and see what happens.  You've got the world number 1 an 2; if you beat them, you do move up on the World Ranking points.  It's just something     I finished 21st last year on the Order of Merit and I am 120 in the world.  I haven't been outside the top 40 in the last four years on the European Tour.

You see some guys, Fred Couples, a great example, wins a tournament last year, really been out of it for a long time and he's 37th in the world.  He's had five Top 10's in the last two years.  I don't know if     somebody said the other day about changing the system.  I don't know if that's true or not.
Q.  Are your friends all in the same boat?
GREG OWEN:   I understand how they work.  We had a meeting with Keith Waters last year to see how they work and we understand how they work.  But you just need     there's just not enough points for us to get up there unless you are getting a couple invites into America and playing well over there, getting into the world events.  If you play week in, week out on the European Tour, you have to do well in the big events to even get up there.

I think if you look at the 21st on the Order of Merit on the Americans, I don't know who he was last year, he's got to be in the Top 60 in the world.  That's just a hard thing that we have to accept and try to keep playing and do well in these events in the PGA and British Open and get into those top 60.  There is a chance to do it, but there's a lot less Europeans in the Top 100 than the Americans for the Ryder Cup.

I do think the world events should count towards Ryder Cup points then.  The level is going to increase, the difference is going to increase.  You have the Top 60 playing in the world     the guys that got beat in the first round, got the same World Ranking points I got for finishing seventh in the Heineken and they are pulling away again.  I don't know, if you can get in there, it's tough to get out of if but getting in there is the thing, you need a couple of good weeks in the right events, timing I suppose.
Q.  With a young family are you reluctant to make the big decision to go over there more?
GREG OWEN:   This year I had the chance to go to Tour School last year because of my exemption this year and things have worked out great.  I said that's my goal, I suppose if I want to be world's No. 1, that's an option.  But being No. 1, don't know if I would like having bodyguards around me     if I get in, that's great but if I'm playing well     I feel like I've been playing pretty steady on the European Tour, and that's good enough now.  I'm making a good living.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT