DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
March 6, 2003
Greg Owen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Greg played a 5-under par 67.  Overall a very good round.
GREG OWEN:   Yeah, I played very solid.  Didn't miss many shots.  Left myself a lot to deal with that shot on 18.  Seemed a little bit grainy on that green, left it a little short, put too much spin on it and must have been aiming it wrong.  Played nice but a 3-putt is no way to finish. 
RODDY WILLIAMS:  You had an eagle on the third.
GREG OWEN:   Yeah, driver, 4-iron to about six feet.  I had about 221 to the flag. 

Q.  Were you aware of Ernie playing behind you?
GREG OWEN:   The crowd, you could just see them surrounding the green. We met him a couple of times out there. It seems to be a common thing now on TOUR.  It's a bit of a joke, really.  Ernie, played with him at the Johnnie Walker, I had a good time with him.  No problems. 

Q.  You weren't happy with the Pace of Play?
GREG OWEN:   No.  Taking that long to play  -- you play in four-balls, it doesn't take that long.  The time it's scheduled, it's up to the players to speed it up, and obviously somebody was having a bit of trouble.  So you can't help that, can you?

Q. Did you see any officials out there?
GREG OWEN:   John Paramor was out in the first group when we played two holes.  After that we  didn't see an official the whole way around. 

Q.  Not your best start to the season?
GREG OWEN:   64, in the Johnne Walker was pretty good. I had eight weeks off. I enjoyed my time back home with our eight month baby, took a few weeks to get back into it and shoot a 64, I'm quite happy with that.  I'm playing well at the moment.  I didn't play well at the end of last year, so obviously the confidence is gone.  Today, it would have been nice to finish high to keep the confidence high, that's usually the way it is, but with the 3-putt on last  -- still hit the ball solid and feeling good.  I hope next week we are playing.  I feel like I'm swinging it well.  The more we play, the better.  It's a good golf course.  Just hope we don't take any silly risks, as well. 

Q.  You will play if the Tour says it is okay rather than take government advice?
GREG OWEN:   If they (the government) tell you not to go, why are we going?  If the Tour has that responsibility, then I don't know what we can do.  Obviously, if you want to play, you play.  They are not going to say, you have to play.  I played with a guy from the British Embassy yesterday and he said, you know, there's no chance of anything happening in the country as we go  -- from what they say, we are  -- and I said to him, oh, we'll probably just stay in the hotel and maybe the shopping centers but he said avoid the shopping centres. The country is safe.  Today they are saying on TV that the Al Queda are saying rise up against western civilization.  I mean, it seems crazy that we would take a risk for one tournament, but I don't know  -- it felt really good this week.  At the moment I'm thinking to play. 

Q. Would you rather see the Tour make a decision?
GREG OWEN:   I'd rather see the Tour cancel it personally, but, if they say it's fair enough to go and they accept that they can guarantee that we are going to get safely from the golf course to the hotel, then fair enough. 

Q.  Ken says there are too many complications to cancel it?
GREG OWEN:   They aren't going to cancel it.  They are still there, aren't they?  What's the complications  -- to say we are not going  -- what's the complications?  The Tour is in a difficult position.  They want to keep the sponsor because it's an up-and-coming tournament and I agree with that.  But it's  -- I don't know, I think it's a very, very tricky subject, but it's one that we'll have to feel comfortable about they decide to go.  Is Ken going out next week? 
RODDY WILLIAMS:  He's out there today and returning next week. 
GREG OWEN:   If they do, then it's safe.  He builds confidence in the players.  If he doesn't turn up  -- you look at who is out there  --

Q.  You have heard about the Sky commentators not going?
GREG OWEN:   The manufacturers are not going.  They are not allowed to go. 
I really don't know.  It's obviously a very difficult situation and it's one that nobody wants to be put in to make a decision, but the way the Americans talk -- no matter what they say, they seem to be going in next week.  That's the way it seems to me. 

Q. You have to pull out by Saturday? 
GREG OWEN:   Probably will pull out Saturday morning, the players and the managers  -- you can pull out after, but get fined Ã‚ £250 but it might be a well spent Ã‚ £250. Is it worth risking, a lot.  I have a baby girl and I want to see her grow up.  A golf tournament is not a be-all and end-all. 
That's the other thing:  You go out and something will happen; if you don't go out, nothing will happen.  

Q.  If you don't play next week when are you next out?
GREG OWEN:   I was thinking about playing Madeira but I've never played well there.  No point in slugging it out.  Leave it the to the guys who are there at the moment and give them a bonus. 
I don't know, I'd like to say that I'll play next week and it's safe, but I don't think anyone can tell me that. 

Q.  What's your world ranking? 
GREG OWEN:   120.  Dropped a lot from 81, had a baby and faded away. 
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Thanks, Greg.  Thanks for your time. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT