WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 4, 2016
Greg Owen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A flash interview with:
GREG OWEN
Q. 67 today.  After your start, you must have felt like it was a little bit on the rocks there for a while.
GREG OWEN: Yeah, was getting last week's gales and all that, but it was cold and, you know, I'm not a young pup like all these other kids coming on the tour.  So just getting the hips and the back warmed up and getting going, it took me a few holes.
But finally found my rhythm and banged out -- played the front 9, I only missed one drive.  Got lucky after that.  Very fortunate.
Q. From 17, which was your 8th hole, that was a pretty good round of golf.
GREG OWEN: Yeah, I had a decent drive but put myself in probably the worst position on 17.  It was like short right and got a big hog's back to go over.  Played a pretty decent pitch.  I holed a real nice putt.  That really set me off.
I hit it close on 18.  Made a good par on 1.  Hit it pretty close, just went down the slope.  And I started hitting some really solid shots.
Didn't birdie the par-5, which was a little frustrating, a little problem I have to get a handle on.  Throwing in a few too many shots away on the par-5.
But it's a good round of golf.  Very solid.
Q. Was the cold a problem to get started?  Because it was, you know, a 45-, 50-minute delay.  It was pretty chilly out here.
GREG OWEN: It was, it was.  Just not a real problem, though.  It's just something you're not used to.  I live in Florida now, and you come out, and last week just to the end of the week and this week, it's just taking a little bit of getting used to and just gotta warm up a little longer, take a little care of my body.
You know, just -- the ball's going pretty much [indiscernible].
Q. Looking at these blue skies and sunshine and thinking about Sunday/Monday last week, that couldn't have been a lot of fun.
GREG OWEN: No, it wasn't.  You know, it's a shame because, you know, me personally, I had three good days, put myself in a decent position.  And again, I mean, for the first nine holes [indiscernible] hang on and get, you know, strike the club at it.  Just frustrated.
But as I say, we play in all sorts of weather.  We had to play in it.  And it's a shame [indiscernible].  Brandt, who ended up winning it, he played in front of me, and that's probably the best golf that's been recorded in a while.  I couldn't believe when I saw he shot 3-under.  Anything around 75, 76 I thought was [indiscernible].  Unbelievable.
Q. 67.  Excellent score here today.  Congratulations.  Good luck the rest of the week.
GREG OWEN: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT