ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
October 1, 2020
Alexander Bjork
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  ALEXANDER BJORK:   When I turned up, it was kind of raining, so it was tough in the morning for the guys, I think.  But I saw on the weather it was supposed to be really good weather in the afternoon.  So, yeah, I mean, if you're playing really good, I can see a score out here.
 Q. Okay, and you were playing really good.  What made it special out there?  Most parts of your game must have been pretty good to achieve that.
 ALEXANDER BJORK:   Yeah, it was kind of a bit of a weird round.  I started like a flyer with five birdies in a row the first six holes, and then I missed a couple of short putts, got out -- got kind of out of it a bit.  Then all of a sudden I made two really long ones, and then I was back in.
 But overall it was a very solid round.
 Q. It's a very strange game, isn't it.  Where does that come from?
 ALEXANDER BJORK:   I mean, I don't know.  I missed like a three-footer on my 8th hole, and then all of a sudden I made like two in a row that was like 20 meters.  So you never know what's going to happen.
 Q. So when you're out there, was it -- the conditions this morning were quite difficult, quite challenging.  That's as near as perfection as you could play a links golf course.
 ALEXANDER BJORK:   Yeah, I would say this is the perfect condition because it's just a small bit of winds, you know it's coming from the same direction all the time.  But it's so small that it doesn't make much.
 But if it's completely calm, the wind can go around a bit, which is actually a bit tougher.  So this was more or less the perfect conditions.
 Q. So where does that rank in your top ten, top five, top three rounds of golf?
 ALEXANDER BJORK:   I don't know.  It's hard to say.  Top ten maybe.
 Q. Okay.  And it's wonderful to be in contention at a Rolex event, isn't it?
 ALEXANDER BJORK:   Yeah, absolutely.  I mean, that's what you want to be.  So really happy with the round.  You don't know what the expect in the morning.  So I'm happy for it to turn out this way.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT