HNA OPEN DE FRANCE
June 29, 2017
Alexander Bjork
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  66, what did you do particularly well today?  
ALEX BJÖRK: It was a really, really solid round of golf.  I think I only missed one green.  Was good from the tee, good with the irons.  Yeah, solid round.   
 Q.  This is the first time you've been to this course.  What was your impression of it?  Had you seen it on television and knew a little bit about it?  
ALEX BJÖRK: I've seen it on television a few times, yes, so I knew a little bit, but it's always different when you get here yourself.  When I got here on Monday, I walked to the driving range and I saw the finishing area and it looked amazing.  Yeah, my first impression was really good.  Yeah, really good course.   
 Q.  5-under par, standing on that 15th tee, you talk about the closing stretch.  What was your mind-set at that stage:  Don't blow this, you've played really well.  
ALEX BJÖRK: No, it was more try to make a few extra birdies.  Because if you get into the negative thoughts, then you're trying to play safe and stuff.  I'm trying to stay positive and trying to make birdies instead of thinking about bogeys.   
 Q.  This is your first year on The European Tour.  Has anything surprised you?  
ALEX BJÖRK: No, I mean, I had a pretty good year on The Challenge Tour last year.  I was just trying to continue that play this year.  So I know if I play well, I can play well.  I'm just trying to do my game every round and see how long that goes.   
 Q.  Having not played this course competitively before, how nice was it to get off to such a positive start?  
ALEX BJÖRK: It was really nice.  I played a solid round of golf, hitting well off the tee, good with irons.  I think I only missed one green.  Steady with the putter.  So solid round of golf and I'm really happy to open good here.   
 Q.  Tough stretch coming down here, but 18, you found the rough but it was probably a dangerous shot to take on from there but you were confident enough to have a go at the green and it played dividends?  
ALEX BJÖRK: Yeah, it was a little dangerous shot but the ball was sitting up okay in the rough.  We got a good number and took our time to gauge that right.  I was happy to hit the green from there.  It was a good shot.   
 Q.  What have been your overall impressions of this course, having played it for the first time?  
ALEX BJÖRK: It's really good, a really good course.  That was the first impression coming here Monday; that everything looks amazing from up here, like 15, 18, and also playing the course is really good.  So yeah, I'm enjoying it here.   
 Q.  Making the step up from The Challenge Tour, how have you found things generally?  You've had some good results over the last couple of weeks.  Has it been a big step or has it been a fairly easy change for you?  
ALEX BJÖRK: It's been a fairly easy change actually.  I was trying just to take the game from Challenge Tour, continuing that game up to The European Tour, and if you do that, and trying not to think too much about who you're playing against and stuff like that, I think it's okay to take the step.  It's going well so far.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT