DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 16, 2018
Alexander Bjork
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How special was that finish after a 65 and using that now for the weekend as momentum?  
ALEXANDER BJÖRK: It was a very nice finish, holing that long putt for eagle.  Makes the round feel a lot better, 4- or 5-under feels like a more normal round and 7-under is a really good round.  So yeah, I'm happy with a little extra spice to the round.   
 Q.  How well do you think this course fits your style of play and what's that do for confidence for you?  
ALEXANDER BJÖRK: I think it suits my game really good.  Quite wide off the tee, trying to get the ball just out in the fairway and then I can attack with my iron game.  So I really like the course, and it's a really good setup.   
 Q.  It's been a great year for you, picked up a victory and now in this position heading into the weekend.  Mentally how will you try and deal with this situation now?  
ALEXANDER BJÖRK: We'll see what position it is, but it will be a good position, and I've learned a lot these two years on Tour and I really like being in this position going into the weekend, so I look forward to the weekend.  I'll try to do my best to be up there on Sunday.   
 Q.  Great round of golf from you and a fantastic finish to see that eagle putt drop there on 18?  
ALEXANDER BJÖRK: Thank you.  It was a very good, solid round.  Played well.  It was really nice to see the putt drop and went from a good round to a really good round and maybe make shot of the day.   
 Q.  What's pleased you most about the game today?  
ALEXANDER BJÖRK: I think I would say the iron game.  Struggled a bit last week in South Africa, so it's really nice to see that that's back to normal, if I can say so, and yeah, I hit a lot of good shots out there.   
 Q.  Level par 72 yesterday, a 65 today.  What was the main difference between those two rounds of golf for you?  
ALEXANDER BJÖRK: It's always tough to say.  Obviously everything was a little bit better today.  I felt like I played better than level par yesterday, so I was a bit disappointed but managed to take that disappointment into today's round and make a really good round of it.  Everything was a little sharper and holed a couple more putts.   
 Q.  You're at the top of the leaderboard at the moment, so whatever happens, you'll be going into the weekend in good shape for this tournament?  
ALEXANDER BJÖRK: Yeah, it was very good that way.  I mean, if I would have shot another level par, I would have been way down.  So it's really nice to have myself up on a good spot on the leaderboard, and really look forward to the weekend and see what I can do there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT