SKY SPORTS BRITISH MASTERS
October 14, 2018
Alexander Bjork
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well played, commiserations.  That was a tremendous fight from you.  Can you describe your emotions?
ALEXANDER BJÖRK: Yeah, thanks.  That was a good fight all the way to the end.  It was so tough today, with the wind and the rain and the cold, and I played really well, especially the first nine holes, I was playing really good.
The second nine was a lot of holes into the wind and it was just a battle.  I did everything I could.
Q. You were hitting a lot of fairways and greens, but when you're out of position, you made some crucial putts and some great up-and-downs.
ALEXANDER BJÖRK: Yeah, I mean, I'm really proud of myself, the way I fight it today, never gave up and just kept going.  It's tough in these conditions and sometimes it can get over and you can get the grumps and you don't really like it.  But I was trying to stay positive and just see opportunities and just trying to catch him, and I was close in the end but not close enough.
Q. After he holes out at the 10th, did it make it harder that you had to chase more, and the conditions being so hard?
ALEXANDER BJÖRK: Well, I mean, I was plugged in the green seed bunker.  Hit it to like ten meters and holed the putt, so I was still happy on 10 and then I made a birdie on 11.  I was still close and saw the opportunity.  But obviously it's tough when the opponent in this weather, and just after the turn, holes a shot from, I don't know how long, 30 yards or something.
It's tough but it's still many holes to play at that point, and I was just trying to focus on my game and trying to make it as good as I could.
Q. So are you feeling better about your game?  You must be pleased overall with your week here at Walton Heath?
ALEXANDER BJÖRK: Yeah, I'm very pleased.  It was just one guy beating me, and it was that week.  Another weekend, it's a win.  If you're up there and fighting for the victory, it's always really good, so I'm happy, but a little disappointed, of course.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT