SKY SPORTS BRITISH MASTERS
October 13, 2018
Alexander Bjork
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just an overview of your year, breakthrough win in China.  How confident are you feeling with your game?
ALEXANDER BJÖRK: Right now, very confident.  Going in the right direction again and I feel more comfortable than in a lot of weeks.
Q. What is it in particular in your game that's working so well for you at the moment?
ALEXANDER BJÖRK: Kind of a bit of everything.  This week it's all working quite well.  Getting on the right track.
Q. In terms of today's round, swinging it nicely, putter was working great, especially in this section.  We're going to take a look at your birdie putt here on 12.  Talk us through this.
ALEXANDER BJÖRK: Up the ridge and down the hill, trying to judge the right speed.  That was a bonus.
Q. A lot of guys saying that they are struggling with these greens and reading the subtle breaks but you seem to be reading them really nicely?
ALEXANDER BJÖRK: At least those in a row.
Q. You're seeing these breaks well, though?
ALEXANDER BJÖRK: Yeah, those are two good putts.  I've been on and off with the putter but overall quite good I would say.
Q. You're in a great position for tomorrow.  How are you going to be feeling?
ALEXANDER BJÖRK: Good.  I have had a couple of tough months not being at the top, and it's quite boring, playing a lot of tournaments in a row, so really happy to be up there and really looking forward.
Q. Nice way to cap it off at 18?
ALEXANDER BJÖRK: Yeah, it was a good day.  I got off to a really bad start with a double on No. 3 but besides that, it was a really good day.
Q. After you got those two shots, you came alive around the turn and holed a lot of putts?
ALEXANDER BJÖRK: Sometimes it can work that way if you have a bad start and you fight back and all of a sudden you have a positive feeling going into the final nine holes, rather than if you've had nine straight pars.  You get a feeling that you're actually on the way.
Q. After that hot stretch, how pleased were you with the way you closed out today's round?
ALEXANDER BJÖRK: Very pleased.  There's a couple of tough holes coming in, a lot of long irons and the wind across, and quite strong.  It was actually blowing really strong in the end I would say and I got a little longer away from the hole.
Also I was putting really well.  I was lag putting really well, getting it close.  Yeah, I'm happy.
Q. Coming off some missed cuts, what's clicked for you this week?
ALEXANDER BJÖRK: It's tough to say but I feel like I'm back on the right track again.  He was quite tired after the summer and I didn't play really well in August.  After that, I got food poisoning in Switzerland, took a couple weeks after.  Yeah, it's just starting to, I would say, be back to normal again.  I feel strong again and feel like the game is coming in the right direction.  I've been working hard for this and it's nice to see this coming back again.
Q. Exciting prospect, right in the mix tomorrow?
ALEXANDER BJÖRK: Yeah, it will be fun.  It's quite boring to just be missing cuts and not be on the top.  I really look forward to tomorrow and hopefully I can be fighting for it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT