DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 16, 2017
Alexander Bjork
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  5-under on the day, 4-under on the back nine.  What did you do when you made the turn?  
ALEXANDER BJORK: I don't know really.  I was playing quite got first nine holes.  Hit a bad chip on 9 and made a bogey.  Made a decent par on 10 and then all of a sudden I made good two good putts on 11 and 12 and I was going.  It was quite nice to pick up the pace and keep going.   
 Q.  What is of vital importance that you do well here on this golf course in your opinion?  
ALEXANDER BJORK: I think for me it's the iron play.  I like hitting middle irons into tight pins.  That's been working quite well today.  If I have an iron from the fairway, I have a good chance of hitting it close, which is nice to feel.   
 Q.  Of course, they don't hand out trophies on Thursday, but getting off to this start, what frame of mind does that put you for the rest of the tournament?  
ALEXANDER BJORK: It's nice to have a good start.  Feel like I've been struggling a little bit the last month, maybe playing a little too difficult.   
I was trying to get back to playing easy this time, and hopefully I can keep doing that the rest of the week.  But it's a nice position and nice to have a good start.   
 Q.  You must be very pleased with the way you've started this tournament?  
ALEXANDER BJORK: I'm very pleased.  I think I played quite nice all over the round.  I played good the first nine holes.  Had a few bad bogeys.  But holed a few good putts on 11 and 12 and kept going the last nine holes.  Quite happy with that and the way I played today.   
 Q.  Fantastic iron shot into 18 set up another birdie chance.  Is that's the key today, good iron play from the fairways?  
ALEXANDER BJORK: I would say so, yeah.  I've been very close to the pins when I had an iron in my hand.   
So for me, I think it's the key on this course to hit the fairways and try to attack with the middle irons.  I'm not a very long hitter, so I had a few middle irons.  Usually I like those kind of shots.  If I can keep hitting fairways, I can still hit them close to the pin.  That's the key for me.   
 Q.  In terms of this tournament, how exciting is it for you to be here, obviously your first year on The European Tour and you're playing in the final 60 championship.  That must be a very good achievement?  
ALEXANDER BJORK: Yeah, it's very exciting to be here.  That's one of the goals I was setting up before this season; that I wanted to play here in Dubai.   
So it's very nice to be here.  Obviously I've been watching this tournament many, many times on TV when I was younger, so it's very nice to finally be here and have a good first round.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT