AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 4, 2019
Amanda Doherty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You made a birdie on the last hole to get on the cut line.  So how does that feel?  
AMANDA DOHERTY: It feels awesome.  I wasn't really looking at the leaderboards on the back.  Just trying to play my own game and see where that landed me, and I had a feeling I needed to make that putt on the last hole, and I'm really glad I did.  It was awesome.   
 Q.  So did you know that it was that critical?  
AMANDA DOHERTY: No.  I mean, like I said, I wasn't trying to really watch the leaderboards, just because, you know, you can't really do anything, other than -- I want to play my best, any ways, so if that gets me in, it gets me in.  So I wasn't really watching the leaderboard, so I didn't realize.   
 Q.  So tomorrow and moving forward, it looks like you're going to get in.  How does it feel?  What are you thinking, now that you've gotten, perhaps, to the next level?  
AMANDA DOHERTY: It's awesome.  This whole experience has been awesome.  Everything about it is kind of surreal to be here, and making the cut, being able to play on Saturday is just going to be amazing.   
 Q.  Are there any key highlights from champions retreat that you'll take away with you, like anything special that you'll remember?  
AMANDA DOHERTY: Oh, I'll remember, this golf course is phenomenal.  It's been really awesome to play the last two days.  Yeah, it really is a nice golf course.  The greens are perfect.  They are quick.  So I think it would be good -- I do think it's a good golf course to play in the lead up to Augusta National, from what I know about it.  But yeah, everything about this has been awesome, and I'm having a good experience.   
 Q.  Have you had any advice from anyone, any other like PGA TOUR pros or anyone who has played Augusta National?  
AMANDA DOHERTY: I've had some advice from my swing coach that's played there, and my assistant coach from school, Robert, he went to Augusta, so he's played -- the team gets to play there a few times, so he's given me a little bit of advice, too.   
 Q.  And what did he tell you, anything you can share?  
AMANDA DOHERTY: The thing he told me most important is just hit the middle of the green on 12.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT