ROGERS MASTERS
August 7, 2006
Philip Bester
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  What was this experience like for you, even though you were up against a more experienced player?   
 PHILIP BESTER:  It was a great experience for me, very special.  I'm left with a lot of motivation to get better every day.  To be able to play on center court like that against the No. 6 player in the world really means a lot to me.   
  
  Q.  What did you learn from playing Blake?   
 PHILIP BESTER:  I learned I still have a lot to go to get better.  I saw what it's like to play against a top player, which obviously I dream of being one one day.  Like I said, it's just left me with a drive to get better, improve, and one day start beating these guys.   
  
  Q.  How big a deal is it for you to be in a tournament of this prestige, with your family and friends back home in Vancouver watching?   
 PHILIP BESTER:  You know, it's a big deal.  But the way I like to look at it is that it's just another tennis match.  It's a great opportunity to be playing at night on live TV, prime time, throughout North America, having my friends and family watch me.   
 But at the end of the day, I just feel that it's me on the court doing my thing, and everything else obviously is included.   
  
  Q.  What sort of goals are you setting for yourself ranking-wise?   
 PHILIP BESTER:  Actually, I don't really necessarily like to set such goals to an extent to where I really focus on them.  In the back of my mind, I would like to be about top 200 at the end of this year, work my way up there, and then other than that I usually like to focus on process goals which are going to get me there possibly one day.  I seem to handle those a lot better.   
  
  Q.  How were the nerves before the match?  Would you have preferred to return serve on the first game?   
 PHILIP BESTER:  It was actually something that my coach and I talked about, whether to return first or serve first.  I decided I usually serve first when I play because I feel it's an advantage to me.  Especially let's say if I lost my serve, there's a big gap not serving first, it would be 3-Love rather than 2-1.  Mentally just in general, that's a big edge there.   
 When it came to nerves, obviously I wouldn't be human if I didn't have any nerves (smiling).  I seemed to handle them pretty good on the court when it came to playing and just doing my thing out there.  You know, a few butterflies before the match.  But other than that, I thought it was pretty good.   
  
  Q.  Did you happen to hear what he said after the match in his postgame interview?   
 PHILIP BESTER:  Yeah, actually I did hear that he did say something.  He also said something to me at the net, best of luck in the rest of my career, I have a long way to go.  It means a lot to me to hear that from such a great player.  It's another addition to inspire me and motivate me to get better and believe I can make it one day.   
  
  Q.  Have you ever played on that big a court, the depth perception just being in front of that many people, how did that feel?   
 PHILIP BESTER:  Yeah, you know, my parents actually built one in their backyard (smiling).   
 It was great.  I mean, I practiced Davis Cup last September when we played against Belarus, we played in the same stadium.  I practiced a few times in Miami.  Obviously when you put people in the stands, it's a completely new thing.   
 I hope in the future I'll have many more of those opportunities.  Like I said, it's great.  It doesn't get any better than this.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT