PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2014
Aaron Krueger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just your feeling about getting in your first championship, and then we'll talk about your caddie after that?  
AARON KRUEGER:   It's just an honor to be here.   To qualify for this has been the highlight of my career.   To come here, I had high expectations.   My game was just not quite there.   It was very exposed out there today.   Any time you don't have your best in a major championship or any kind of tournament, it's tough.   When you are playing a major, you are really exposed.   
Golf is a humbling game.   Two really good players, two phenomenal guys.   I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   You had a really unique situation.   Your boss, the GM and you together in the same twosome, he was caddying for you.   Speak about that.   He's the president of the section and you're the vice‑president of the section.  
AARON KRUEGER:   Well, I'm actually the secretary of the section and he's the president.   But no, it's fun to be able to work together.   We get along so well, both at work, off of work, away from work and then here.  
I couldn't think of anybody better to share this experience with.   Dave is a PGA member through and through.   He bleeds the PGA colors and it's just fun to be part of that and finally get to tell him what to do.  
   
 Q.   Just to clarify, you are the secretary and not having an election, any different changes at this point right now?   Still secretary?  
AARON KRUEGER:   Yeah, so he's the president and I'm the secretary.   I've got another year and a half as secretary.   We were just elected to those positions this past October.   
   
 Q.   How did you sleep last night?   How were the nerves on the first tee?   
AARON KRUEGER:   You know, I slept well.   I woke up really early.   Obviously I had an early tee time.   There's nerves in this setting, more so that I just wasn't exactly comfortable with my game and my swing.   I wasn't fully confident the way I wanted to be.   That was probably the most nerves, the most that contributed to the nerves that I had.   
Once I got teed off, I felt good out there.   It was just such a unique experience, I was trying to soak it all in no matter what I shoot.  
   
 Q.   You said you learned a lot out there today, what do you take from the experience?   
AARON KRUEGER:   You know, it's just trying not to do too much, especially when you don't have your best swing.   You play as conservatively as you can.   There's a couple of shots that I missed it in the wrong spot, hit it in the water on 15, for example, and you make double.   You can't do that.   
Charles and Joost hit the ball really well.   They hit a couple of shots and they recovered nicely.   You just have to stay patient no matter what you do, just keep fighting.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT