QUICKEN LOANS NATIONAL
June 28, 2014
Oliver Goss
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Have you thought about where you might relocate some day?OLIVER GOSS: I'm still living in Knoxville, some familiarity.   I might go down to like a Sea Island or somewhere in Florida, better weather, better facilities.
Q. What is your coach's full name?OLIVER GOSS: Ritchie Smith from Perth.
Q. And what course did you grow up on?OLIVER GOSS: Royal Fremantle Golf Club.
Q. A little over a year ago, you were in your dorm room watching the final round of the Masters going crazy for Adam, are playing with Marc Leishman, and here you are playing with him today?OLIVER GOSS: Yeah, I was in my dorm and trying to do an assignment but I just couldn't keep my eyes off the TV.  I remember watching Adam hole that putt on 18 for the tie, and I just went absolutely ballistic in my room.  I was with my girlfriend at the time just going crazy. To watch him actually win was just awesome.  It's great that Marc and I are playing today.  We are going to have a great day out there today.
Q. Seems like you've taken this professional golf thing in stride and your confidence level seems very high.  Tell us about the decision to turn pro and how your first couple weeks have gone.OLIVER GOSS: Second week out on TOUR, the decision to turn pro, I just had a lot of opportunity, and if I turned it down and went back to college, I could possibly have missed out on some of these opportunities that I've been given.  So just based on that and I'm looking to play as well as I can to get some status for next year.
Q. Lastly we've watched your game in the U.S. Ams that you've competed, obviously the Masters, but the folks who are going to see you out there today, tell us about your strengths on the golf course.OLIVER GOSS: This week, the key to my success has been my length.  I think I've been driving it 320-plus off the tee average.  I didn't hit many greens yesterday, but I'm putting a lot better than I usually do, so that helps as well.
Q. Second professional event, sitting on top of the leaderboard here at the Quicken Loans National and you're playing with Marc Leishman, fellow Aussie.  Is that going to make you more comfortable?OLIVER GOSS: It's going to be a lot more comforting playing with a fellow countryman.  I'm sure we're going to have a great day today.
Q. You've hit only four fairways yesterday but still shot a 66.  A little more emphasis in keeping it in the short grass today?OLIVER GOSS: Even shooting 66, I went back out on the range yesterday afternoon and just worked on some drivers.  Planning on hitting a few more fairways and keeping that length up.
Q. You're an Aussie; when you tee off, it will be 3:50 in the morning, Sunday morning Melbourne time.  Do you think people are going to be up early to watch you play?OLIVER GOSS: Yeah, I think so.  I'm getting a few messages back home saying that they are going to watch, so that's good to know.
 
 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT