U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2013
Oliver Goss
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PETE KOWALSKI:   We'd like to welcome our second U.S.Amateur finalist, Oliver Goss from Australia, winner over his friend Brady Watt.   You've got another step closer.   How does that feel?   
OLIVER GOSS:   I'm trying to be as calm as possible, and I've got a big day ahead of me tomorrow, but I'm definitely‑‑ it hasn't sunk in yet, all the things that come along with being a finalist like playing in the Masters and the U.S. Open.   I'm definitely trying to keep as calm as possible, but it definitely hasn't sunk in, and I don't think it will for at least a couple of days.  
   
 Q.   You seem like a calm person anyway.   Is that the case?  
OLIVER GOSS:   Yeah, I'm definitely a calm person on the golf course.   It does look like that from outside, I think.   That's what people tell me, but it may not be like that from what I can feel.   But yeah, I try and stay as relaxed and calm and collected as I can.  
   
 Q.   Did you build on your success last year as a quarterfinalist and look at your match from last year and say what did I do in that match, and how did you translate that to here at The Country Club?  
OLIVER GOSS:   Yeah, I used a lot of my experience from last year.   That helped a lot.   You get the same feelings each and every match, and just looking back at last year's tournament, I can remember a lot of the shots I hit and a lot of the feelings that I had.   So I used a lot of that last year to do as well as I could today.   
   
 Q.   How long have you been involved with Golf Australia, and how has that involvement helped the progression of your own game?  
OLIVER GOSS:   I've probably been involved with them since I was about 16, so the last three years or so, and they've changed my golf game that I didn't even know it was possible.   They've provided me with tremendous support and opportunity to progress my game.   I definitely give a lot to credit to them and the work they do for me.   
   
 Q.   Was there a turning point in the match for you?   
OLIVER GOSS:   Like early or late or‑‑ I think the putt on 14 was a big deal, was definitely a game changer.   It really looked like I was going to be going even with four holes to play, and to sink that putt was just unbelievable.   I don't know if I could do it again if I had 100 balls.   But just to sink that putt was definitely a game changer, and definitely had a huge advantage because I went to the next tee full of confidence.   
   
 Q.   What would you say the length of that putt was?   
OLIVER GOSS:   I probably think about 30 feet, yeah.   I'm not exactly sure, but that's what I'm guessing.   
   
 Q.   How old were you when you first met Brady, and did you ever envision a situation where you guys would be in this high stakes against each other?  
OLIVER GOSS:   No, definitely not.   I probably met Brady when I was about 13 or 12, and I think he's about four years older than me, so he was a little bit older.   But yeah, we grew up playing some junior and senior golf together, which was great.   We've become awesome friends, and we had a really fun day out there today.   
   
 Q.   It looks like you have a very even temperament.   So does Matt.   Is that one of the major keys this week, just staying calm and collected?   
OLIVER GOSS:   I think so.   With all the pressure and the media, with each shot there's just a huge amount of pressure on your shoulders because it's so important.   Every shot is vital.   So keeping calm and collected is very important.   That's one of the aspects that I'm very proud of, because you don't want to get too excited or jumpy because you could do anything, you could get too excited and hit the ball 20 yards too far or lose control and just hit it left and right and flub it, and you can do anything when you're too excited.   I guess I am a really calm and collected player.   
   
 Q.   Do you have family here this week, and if not, how have you been conversing with them over the course of the week?   
OLIVER GOSS:   I don't have any immediate family here.   They're all back in Australia and England.   My assistant coach is here from Tennessee, and Brad James from Golf Australia and all my friends from Australia are here, but no actual immediate family.   I've been in the country since about January 3, about eight months or so, so I'm getting used to it, but sometimes it does get tough without them.  
   
 Q.   Have there been specific conversations at all this week, talking about matches and things like that?  
OLIVER GOSS:   With family?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
OLIVER GOSS:   I haven't really just gone into detail.   Mom and dad just say play well, we believe in you, stuff like that.   I'm really grateful for them.   Even though they're so far away, they're still being really supportive.  
   
 Q.   How frequently are you in conversation with them this week?  
OLIVER GOSS:   They send me messages every day, and we try and Skype or FaceTime as much as possible.   But yeah, we talk every day.   
   
 Q.   What was your experience like at Fenway Park?   
OLIVER GOSS:   That was unbelievable.   We get to the park, and I think it's midway through the first inning, and then A‑Rod comes out as soon as we sit down, and everyone just goes nuts with the boos and the you‑sucks and some things I don't want to mention.   But the atmosphere was unbelievable, to have that many people get so high spirited and intensely focused into the game was just great.   I had a lot of fun there for sure.   
   
 Q.   Had you ever been to a game?   What sporting event would you compare it to that you've been to?  
OLIVER GOSS:   I've been to a game before.   I went to a Braves game in Atlanta earlier in the year.   That was a lot of fun, but this was on a whole 'nother level.   I really loved it.   It's probably in comparison to like an Australian Football Grand Final.   It was really intense, yeah.   
   
 Q.   What do you know about Matt, and do you have any expectations?   
OLIVER GOSS:   I don't know much about him.   I watched him at the British Open.   I know he's a really good player.   As you said, he's really calm and he's obviously a really good player to get the low amateur at the Open.   I'm really looking forward to tomorrow.   Looks like we have similar kind of games, and I'm really excited to get out there and give it my best go.   
PETE KOWALSKI:   Thank you very much for your time, and congratulations.   Well played.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT