U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2013
Oliver Goss
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   From Australia, 5 & 3 winner over Brandon Matthews, Oliver Goss, another one of the Aussies into the semifinals of the U.S.Amateur.   5 & 3 is a pretty good margin in the quarterfinals of the U.S.Amateur.   That must mean you're playing pretty good golf.   Tell us about that.   
OLIVER GOSS:   I definitely didn't expect to win 5 & 3 today.   My first two matches were really tight.   I think I played 53 out of 54 holes, and to win 5 & 3 today was pretty unexpected.   But I'm glad I got the job done.   
   
 Q.   Can you just talk about your relationship with Brady, and I guess you're going to the Red Sox game tonight?   
OLIVER GOSS:   Yeah, that's right.   We're going to the Red Sox‑Yankees game tonight.   I think we're like first or second row outside third base, so we've got good tickets.  
   
 Q.   Who are you rooting for?  
OLIVER GOSS:   Red Sox.   
   
 Q.   And can you just talk about your friendship with him, how well you know each other?  
OLIVER GOSS:   Yeah, we grew up playing junior golf together.   He is a little bit older than I am, but definitely hung around him a lot, but we're really good friends and had some really good battles the last couple years, especially last year.   Staying in the same house this week has been a lot of fun, so I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What's it going to be like when you get home from the game and you're in the same house?   Are you going to wish each other luck?   Are you going to look the other way?  
OLIVER GOSS:   It's going to be a normal night.   We're going to wish each other the best of luck tomorrow and see who comes out on top, but we're definitely going to come out tomorrow and give it all we've got.   We definitely just want to beat each other at the best.  
   
 Q.   Are you glad you're playing someone who's a friend of yours?   Does that matter or make it weird?   
OLIVER GOSS:   I'm not too sure, but I think it'll be a little bit easier.   I don't think we'll be as nervous because we know we're playing such good friends, and it'll be interesting, but I know it's going to be a lot of fun.   
   
 Q.   It sounds like you've sort of had his number the last couple times that you've been in contention together.   You obviously know his game well.   What's allowed you to sort of have the upper hand the last few times?  
OLIVER GOSS:   I think it's just coming down the stretch I've been able to just get that one up on him every single time.   It's always real close.   He's definitely improved a lot the last year or so, and I think coming down the stretch I've just been able to get the one up.   
   
 Q.   You reached the quarterfinals last year, and you've had a lot of things go on in this past year.   How has your game changed or evolved say over the last year?  
OLIVER GOSS:   I've matured as a player.   I've definitely got a lot smarter on the golf course and my ball‑striking has improved quite a lot, which is huge, especially around The Country Club being with the rough so long and thick and with the length of the course.   So I think my ball‑striking has improved the most.   
   
 Q.   From today's match can you talk about how you put the third hole behind you very quickly where you went out of bounds behind the green?  
OLIVER GOSS:   Yeah, I had a 6‑iron in‑‑ it was a 7‑iron from about 200 yards, and I was basically playing for the front portion of the green, and I got a huge flier, which was really surprising out of that thick rough, and it landed over the grade on the downslope and went into the water.   So I couldn't play it.   I took it out of the water and took a drop, and it was a really tough shot, short‑sided into the grain hitting toward the downslope, and I hit it to 50 feet or so and ended up three‑putting to lose the hole.   
But I put that behind me fairly quickly, just stood up on the next and stroked a 2‑iron down next to the green.   I moved on pretty quickly.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned your ball‑striking.   Talk about your play off the tee today because you were in the fairway just about every time out?  
OLIVER GOSS:   The game plan has been all week just to hit as many fairways as possible because once you are off the fairway you are really struggling to hit the green and make par.   Even just around the green is a good shot.   I'm definitely trying to hit as many fairways as possible, and I've done a pretty good job today.   
   
 Q.   With your success last year at the U.S.Amateur, when you went back home did you talk to folks and say, hey, this is a great event, you should use the support of Golf Australia and try to make your way to the U.S.Amateur?   
OLIVER GOSS:   It's not really an option to try and do that.   You kind of have to earn your stripes.   To be with Golf Australia is a really tough gig, and the people in the squad earn it.   There's definitely a lot of up‑and‑coming good Australian players.   It's such a great program.   I definitely wouldn't be here today without them, and they've improved my game like miles and miles, so I really appreciate their help.  
   
 Q.   Do you go back home in the summertime or do you stay in the States?  
OLIVER GOSS:   The plan was to go home after the NCAA finals, but it just didn't quite work out, so I took a couple weeks off golf and I just chilled out, went on holiday, and just didn't touch a club for two or three weeks and then had a couple weeks of good solid practice before my summer season of golf started.   
   
 Q.   How much support do you actually get from Golf Australia in terms of like coaching, logistics and that sort of stuff, and when is the next time you're going to be able to go home to Australia?   
OLIVER GOSS:   The support we get from Golf Australia is outstanding.   You can't replicate it.   They do a one‑off job.   The coaching they get is world class.   The guys that we have at our disposal are world‑class.   They're the best in the world at their job.   It's amazing what they can do for your game if you are responsible enough to do the work and put the work in and get better.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   Congratulations.   Play well tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT