TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2014
Oliver Goss
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DOUG MILNE:   We'd like to welcome Oliver Goss.   Thank you for joining us for a few minutes, from the University of Tennessee, 14th ranked amateur in the world.   Just a few opening comments on being here at TPC River Highlands and the Travelers Championship this week.   
OLIVER GOSS:   Honestly I'm too happy to be here.   I couldn't thank the Travelers, they're a great sponsor, I couldn't thank them enough for giving me the opportunity to make my professional debut here this week.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned that you've had a chance to get out onto the course.   Just a few thoughts on how it sets up for your game.   
OLIVER GOSS:   Yeah, I was out here really early yesterday morning about 7:00 a.m. and got a good look at the course nice and early.   I really like the course.   It's polar opposite from last week at Pinehurst.   But I'm really excited for the week.   Great golf course, good‑looking golf course.   The greens are so pure, and I'm really excited for the week.   
   
 Q.   Talk a little bit about what this tournament did for you this week to make it special for you with your pro debut and the loyalty you feel towards them in return.   
OLIVER GOSS:   Yeah, they've done an amazing job.   They've done everything they can to make me feel welcome.   That's just how I feel.   I feel part of it here.   We had a great time on the charter from Pinehurst to here.   That's just a little taste of what it's like being a professional, and it's a really great experience, and I enjoyed every minute of it.   I'm really happy to be here.   
   
 Q.   Do you have any kind of realistic expectations of how you might do this week, not even a score but just in terms of how it's going to be changing gears now and moving into these ranks?  
OLIVER GOSS:   Yeah, I'm just looking to get my feet wet a little bit, just get a taste of what it's like out here.   I'm quite optimistic.   I'm not going to put any kind of score in my head; I don't want to do that being my first event.   But I really would like to do well in my debut.   
   
 Q.   Do you notice the difference between the setups of what a typical college setup would be versus a TOUR stop each week?  
OLIVER GOSS:   Yeah, I mean, it's completely different.   College golf is a great pathway to professional golf, and I'm really glad I made that decision to go to college and the University of Tennessee, and now that I'm out here at my first PGA TOUR event, this is quite different.   I'm treating it the exact same way as I would the Masters.   It's another week, it's another tournament you've got to try your very hardest and just try your best to play as well as you can.   
DOUG MILNE:   Oliver, we appreciate your time.   Best of luck this week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT