SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 13, 2006
Chad Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Chad Campbell, thanks for joining us.  6 under par after two rounds of 67 67.  Jim Furyk is at 6 under with a couple of holes left, but you're in great position heading into the weekend.  Maybe some opening comments.
CHAD CAMPBELL:  It's been good.  The last two days I've played really well.  It's nice coming back.  I had two months off, I didn't play anything in the off season, so it was nice to get refreshed and come out here and play well.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  During your off season, I think you signed an agreement with Nike.  I know you played Nike irons a good part of last year at least, maybe just a little bit about your clubs.
CHAD CAMPBELL:  Yeah, very happy with Nike and their products.  They make great stuff and it was a great fit for me.  Their home base is there in Fort Worth where they make all the clubs, and I couldn't be happier with who I'm with.
Q.  Conditions good for you?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  It's a little breezy out there, but, you know, it's tough to hit fairways.  You've just got to make sure if you do miss the fairways and you're on the right side, all of those crosswinds make it really tough to keep the ball in the fairway and fairways are pretty firm.

You know, managed the wind pretty well for two days.
Q.  You're used to that from Texas, aren't you?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  Yeah, played a lot growing up in it.  It makes it interesting, you've got to play a lot of different shots hitting a lot of three quarter shots, keeping it down underneath the wind.  A lot of times the hardest part is putting in the wind because that's a real big guessing game in how it's going to take the ball.  So that's probably the toughest part.
Q.  How did you feel coming in?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  I felt good.  Like I said, I had two months off, so that was nice.  I didn't do much, started practicing a little bit the last few weeks, but didn't really play that much at all.

Made it really good to come out here and be refreshed and stay patient during my round and kept    just keeping your mind clear and ready for a new year.
Q.  Anything change on the weekend?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  Hopefully not.
Q.  Pretty good position.  Do you change your strategy at all?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  Not really.  Just keep doing the same things I'm doing, trying to get the ball in the fairway as much as possible. It's tough.  There's a lot of good drives I hit that end up in the rough and that's kind of way it is.  As long as you're missing on the right sides and have angles to the pin, you can manage.
Q.  Do you have a good history here before?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  I've had a couple good rounds.  I haven't had any good tournaments.  I love the course.  I love coming over here.  I think the course suits me really well.
Q.  Because you can keep it in the fairway?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  I don't know, I haven't kept it in the fairway too well.  But like I said, I manage, getting the right angles to the pins and stuff, missing it in the right places.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  You played THE TOUR Championship last year, Chad.  Talk about your goals this year.  Obviously I'm sure that's one of them, I'm sure getting in the winner's circle would be a big goal, as well.
CHAD CAMPBELL:  Yeah, I missed out on the Mercedes this year, so disappointed about that.  Definitely want to be back there.

And Ryder Cup year is this year, and that's definitely in front of my mind.  That's very important to me and I've got a lot of ground to make up after last year; I didn't play too well.  So hopefully I can keep playing well and that will take care of itself.
Q.  Furyk has won here before, do you feel like his game is suited for this course?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  I do.  You know, he drives it really straight and putts it real well.  He's a solid player, so I think the more that you can get the ball in the fairway is definitely an advantage.

You start hitting it in the rough, it makes it so much harder to control your ball, especially when you have winds, crosswinds and makes it tough.  So I think his game is suited for any course.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Let's go through your round, you started on the front side and birdied the first hole, the par 4.
CHAD CAMPBELL:  I hit driver, pitching wedge to about five feet, made that.

Bogeyed 3.  I hit 2 iron off the tee and just in the right rough, knocked it over the green and didn't get it up and down, missed about a 10 footer for par, 12 footer for par.

Birdie on 9.  Hit driver, 3 iron to about 15 feet and missed my eagle putt.

10, drove it left and got it up right by the green.  Hit a bad chip to about 15, 20 feet and missed that.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  You came back with birdies on 12, 14 and 16.
CHAD CAMPBELL:  12 was driver, wedge to about four feet.

14, I hit a great drive, it actually ended up going through the fairway.  Chipped an 8 iron up there to about probably 12 feet.

16 was 3 wood, wedge to about 12, 15 feet.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Chad, thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT