THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 11, 2005
Chad Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOHN BUSH:  Chad, thanks for coming by, 1-under par 71.  They say it's always hard to follow up a really good round like you had yesterday.  If we could just get some comments on how it went for you today.
CHAD CAMPBELL:  Yeah, it started off really good.  I birdied 1 and 3 and then had a little trouble on 4.  Just really didn't get anything going after that.  It was a pretty tough day.  The wind was blowing pretty steady, 20 miles an hour probably out there, so it's playing tough.
JOHN BUSH:  Take us through, starting with the birdie on 1.
CHAD CAMPBELL:  1, I hit driver, sand wedge to about five feet.

3 was 8-iron to about five feet.

4, I hit it left kind of in these bushes and then hit it in the hazard left and dropped it and ended up on the green.  Made about a 20-footer for bogey.

6, the par 5, I hit driver, 2-iron just right of the green.  Chipped up to about eight feet.

8, I hit 4-iron over the green.  Chipped up to six feet and missed that.

12, birdie, was driver, 3-wood just right of the green and chipped up to about three feet.

Birdied 14.  Driver, 4-iron to 25 feet.

Bogey on 15.  I hit 7-iron right of the green.  Hit a bad chip to 15 feet and missed it.

18, hit driver down the left side just over the bunker and had 2-iron in.  Came up short in the bunker and chipped out to six, eight feet and missed that.
Q.  Just not as sharp or different playing conditions compared to yesterday?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  You know, just didn't play quite as well as yesterday.  The wind was -- I think the wind blew a different direction, and the course plays a little tougher in this direction of wind.  I think the wind was pretty close to the same strength as yesterday.  Probably it might have been blowing a little bit harder yesterday.
Q.  You really got the worse conditions both days?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  Right.
Q.  So considering that --
CHAD CAMPBELL:  I guess.  I wasn't out there during the other part.
Q.  Considering that, do you have to like your position?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  I do.  I'm happy with the way I played, especially yesterday.  Today just wasn't quite happening out there for me today, but definitely looking forward to getting into the weekend and seeing what I can do.
Q.  Do you know much about Brett?  Have you ever played with him?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  I don't think I've ever played with him.  I think I maybe played a practice round with him.  I don't know that much about him.  I'd say we're pretty good friends but don't know that much about him.  I know he hits it a long ways.
Q.  How many guys can hit it longer than him out here?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  I don't know.  I haven't really played with him enough to know whoever can hit it past him or whatever.
Q.  A 64 today, are there going to be low scores like that on the weekend or is it going to start settling down?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  I don't know, it will probably set the down.  The greens are getting a little bit firmer and faster.  You never know, I didn't expect to shoot 64 yesterday in those conditions.  I don't know how it was this morning but it wasn't easy out there today.
JOHN BUSH:  Chad, thanks for coming by.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT