THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 10, 2005
Chad Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Chad Campbell, 8-under par 64, and 10-under on your last 11 holes.  You warmed up along with the weather, didn't you? 

CHAD CAMPBELL:  I did.  It was obviously a good day.  It was a tough day out there.  The wind was blowing, it was cold this morning and you know I was just able to get through the first few holes when it was really, really tough and it let up a little bit.  Definitely made my share of putts today.

JOE CHEMYCZ:  Was that the key for you today was putting? 

CHAD CAMPBELL:  Yeah, it was.  I holed out on 17, which was my eighth hole, which kind of turned everything around after I just bogeyed the last hole; so that kind of got the momentum going. 

JOE CHEMYCZ:  What did you do there on 17? 

CHAD CAMPBELL:  17, hit driver, 3-wood and had like 75 yards. 

Q.  70, according to ShotLink. 

CHAD CAMPBELL:  70?  I'd go with them then.  I can't remember exactly.  I had a lot of numbers out there today.

Q.  Sand wedge? 

CHAD CAMPBELL:  60-degree wedge. 

Q.  You didn't play last week.  When you have a week off, do you normally come back and play near this well?  What's your pattern been?

CHAD CAMPBELL:  It's just kind of either one.  I don't think there's any, I don't know what you'd say -- there's no real pattern.  It's always nice to be home and get rested up and come out fresh, that's for sure.

Q.  Were you surprised, given the conditions this morning, that you were able to put that kind of number up? 

CHAD CAMPBELL:  Well, I feel like I've been playing really well.  My last two tournaments at L.A. and La Costa, I feel like I started playing a lot better.  So I definitely had a good attitude about things.  I knew it was going to be a tough day, so I was just patient through those first few holes and I got things going after I made that shot.

Q.  Was it just miserably cold or was the wind difficult?  What was the tough part about the start? 

CHAD CAMPBELL:  Everything.  All of the above.  It was really tough when we were hitting balls, it was freezing.  That I was glad to see it warm up a little bit.

Q.  Did you bring enough with you to stay warm? 

CHAD CAMPBELL:  Oh, yeah, I always bring enough stuff.  The wind this morning was probably 25, at least.  I'd say that's safe side.

Q.  Do you consider yourself a good wind player? 

CHAD CAMPBELL:  You know, I'm pretty good.  I grew up in it, you know, being from Texas and everything, so I play a lot in the wind.  If I had my preference, I'd rather not, but I think I managed my game pretty well in the wind.

Q.  Looking back on Nissan, you played so great there, that was a strange week mentally; everything about it was difficult. 

CHAD CAMPBELL:  You know, it was definitely an interesting week, just everything.  You know, finishing up on Monday and people finishing second round on Sunday or whenever, I don't even know what happened now.  It was a strange week, but it was a big week for me.  I had not played that well at the start of this year, and that really kind of kick-started things and gave me a little confidence to met to get my game back on the right track.

Q.  You mentioned being patient early today, when things did settle down confidence-wise; did you get in more of an attack mode?

CHAD CAMPBELL:  Not too much.  I mean, you know, I'm still playing pretty conservative.  With the way the wind was, you're just trying to get the ball down the fairway and get it on the green somewhere close.  I was able to, and, you know, I made a couple -- I made a 25-footer and probably a couple 25-footers, so that always helps out your round.

Q.  And a 70-yarder. 

CHAD CAMPBELL:  And a 70-yarder.  That really helps.

Q.  The Nissan playoff lasted just a matter of minutes I guess?

CHAD CAMPBELL:  Yeah, it was just that one hole?

Q.  How weird was that to go out there knowing right off the bat first thing in the morning, sudden death? 

CHAD CAMPBELL:  It was tough.  We were out there warming up, it was just a downpour when we were warming up, hitting balls underneath the umbrella, it was interesting, hardly anybody was out there.  Don't really blame them.  The weather wasn't that great.  It was unfortunate, but I definitely took a lot of positives out of that week.

Q.  You're off to a good start here, is it going to be tough at all to keep yourself from not trying to look forward to next week where you're going to be defending? 

CHAD CAMPBELL:  Maybe a little bit.  It's always fun, I haven't had that many opportunities yet in my career, but I've got this tournament to deal with first.  I like this tournament.  I've played in it every year, and so just stay in the present and not try to look forward.

Q.  You say you like this tournament, even though it's moved around a lot.

CHAD CAMPBELL:  I do.  I've played it.  I think it's just that -- well, except for today, I like getting down here where it's usually hot, and even though the wind blows a little bit, it's good to get off the West Coast and get into some warmer weather.

Q.  Do you consider yourself a mudder at all? 

CHAD CAMPBELL:  A mudder?  Playing in the rain? 

Q.  Conditions this morning. 

CHAD CAMPBELL:  You know what, surprisingly, the golf course was in tremendous shape.  The fairways didn't even hardly look like it rained.  And the greens, you know, they were a little bit softer.  The staff did a great job or whether the course drains did or a little bit of both but it's in good shape.

Q.  Were you able to fire at pins today?

CHAD CAMPBELL:  Yeah, the greens were definitely a little bit softer.  You could hit it up in there.  They are maybe starting to firm out a little bit when we got done, but definitely pretty receptive.

Q.  Davis suggested maybe they let you off at the member's course. 

CHAD CAMPBELL:  Yeah (laughing) it was a good day, that's for sure.  For sure.  I'd like to get three more of these days. 

JOE CHEMYCZ:  Did it make it easier having the ball in your hand today? 

CHAD CAMPBELL:  I think so, a little bit.  I didn't get that much mud on my ball, though.  I don't know if I would have had enough mud on there to actually affect a shot or not. 

JOE CHEMYCZ:  Birdies and bogeys, bogey on 10 to start the day. 

CHAD CAMPBELL:  Bogey on 10.  Hit 3-wood right and then left it short of the green and chipped up and missed about a 20-footer. 

Birdie on 13 was driver, 6-iron to eight feet. 

15, 7-iron to at least 25 feet. 

16, drove it down the middle, hit 5-iron just over the pin long to a collection area and chipped it past about six feet and missed it. 

JOE CHEMYCZ:  1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 9.

CHAD CAMPBELL:  1 was driver, 60-degree wedge to six, seven feet. 

2 was driver, sand wedge to about six feet.

4, driver, pitching wedge to ten feet.

6, driver, 3-iron, 9-iron to about six feet, five feet.

8, 3-iron to about 25, 30 feet.

9 was driver, 7-iron probably 15 feet. 

Q.  Having a five-shot lead, are you surprised to shoot this low score or are you surprised to have this lead so far early in the day?

CHAD CAMPBELL:  I think so.  The course is definitely playing tough but you know you still have chances to score out there.  You just need to make the putts, and fortunately enough I was able to make those today. 

Q.  Because of the conditions, does it seem like an even better score than it is? 

CHAD CAMPBELL:  Yeah, maybe.  So especially after what we were warming up in this morning.  That was pretty brutal this morning.

Q.  What was that like warming up? 

CHAD CAMPBELL:  It was cold.  It was freezing.  You know, it got better, though, out there and I think the wind has let down just a little bit.  So it definitely didn't get easy.

Q.  Were you thinking 64 on the range then?

CHAD CAMPBELL:  Not really, no, I wasn't.  It just kind of happened that way.  So, you know, I knew it was going to be a tough day on the range and I was telling the other guys earlier that, you know, first probably six, seven holes I was just trying to be patient, you know.  And I just bogeyed the first hole and just knew it was going to be a long day, and I knew that I would be able to get some birdie chances, just had to be patient with it.  So I was patient, and then I held that shot on 17, which was my eighth hole, and kind of got things going. 

Q.  Can you talk about the Ryder Cup and what that experience was like for and you how much that's played a role in your development out here? 

CHAD CAMPBELL:  It was an awesome experience, the outcome was not what we wanted, but just the whole atmosphere of being a part of the team that's representing your country is pretty awesome.  You know, you stand on the first tee with everybody yelling "USA," that's a great feeling.  It's something that you can't -- no other tournament can prepare you for. 

People were trying to tell me that before I got there and I finally realized it when I stepped up on the first tee.  Definitely, that was a big goal of mine to make the team last year and after making it, you know, definitely want to be back on the next team in '06. 

Q.  You took a large step up in class, winning, Ryder Cup player, how does that affect your goals, the way you view yourself, your confidence? 

CHAD CAMPBELL:  I don't really look at myself any different than before.  I mean, I don't know, I guess I don't get caught up in everything.  I just kind of go about my business and take care of what I need to do and work on the things I need to work on. 

You know, that's all I can think about and that's all I control, so that's the only thing I do.  I mean, I don't really know how to put it in perspective, but I don't really think about things like that too much like what -- I guess what I am, you know, what I've done and stuff like that.  I'm just trying to win the next tournament that I play in. 

Q.  What was your reaction when SI same out with that article and the photo and how much grief have you taken over that?

CHAD CAMPBELL:  I thought it was great.  It was great for me, great to get my name out to a lot of people that didn't know who I was.  So, you know, at the time it was great. 

Looking back on it, I can't think of anything negative about it.  A lot of people asked if it put a lot of pressure on me, and I don't think it really affected me at all like that.  I think it was definitely positives that came from the article.

Q.  So are you still the next big thing or are you now Ryder Cupper and PGA TOUR winner? 

CHAD CAMPBELL:  I don't know what I am.  I'm just trying to put three more good days together here. 

Q.  You're one of those guys that can go low and keep going low, you don't back off, and a lot of guys can't do that out here.  How are you able to do that?  When you get in a groove, it seems like you can't stop. 

CHAD CAMPBELL:  I don't know.  I don't know how to explain how you can just do it.  I mean, there's times when -- I think it all comes off of confidence.  I was telling the guys earlier, playing a little bit better at L.A. and playing better at The Match Play definitely gave me a lot of confidence going into this week. 

I didn't play last week.  Being rested and just being mentally ready to play, I think that helps you a lot.  If you're out there and you get tired, it's hard to keep things going.  So when you're mentally fresh I think it makes it a lot easier.  But to have the secret, I don't know.  I don't really have the secret to that. 

JOE CHEMYCZ:  Chad, thanks.  Play well the rest of the week. 


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT