HSBC WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
October 16, 2003
Chad Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Well played.  Are you pleased with your first round?

CHAD CAMPBELL:   Yeah, I am.  I knew Frederik was playing well this year.  He's played well in the States and we've gotten to know each other this year.  It was a good match.  I was able to make a lot of putts and I think that's what won it for me. 

SCOTT CROCKETT:  It must be nice to go into the afternoon with a 5&4 cushion? 

CHAD CAMPBELL:   I chipped in in the morning round to go 5-up and it looked good going into the afternoon.  I won the first two holes of the afternoon round and that kind of got me going again. 


Q.  You played so well on a course you don't really know?

CHAD CAMPBELL:   I think it's a great course, a great course for match-play.  You know what, it's so much like courses in mesh, it seems like to me, and it wasn't that tough to adjust.  I think the greens were quite a bit faster today than they were yesterday or the day before. 


Q.  Loch Lomond was not so successful?

CHAD CAMPBELL:   I came over early, I was lucky enough to get in the Scottish Open.  I played terrible there.  I really don't know why, I missed a lot of putts and just was bad for me golf-wise.  Open? I believe I finished 15th. 


Q. Would you go back to Loch Lomond?

CHAD CAMPBELL:   Possibly.  It was actually my first time anywhere in the area  -- and playing at the Scottish Open, and by the time I got to the Open I was adjusted. 


Q.  Were you embarrassed? 

CHAD CAMPBELL:   Maybe a little bit.  I think I shot a pair of 77s or something like that maybe.  76-77, just as bad.  (Laughter.) It wasn't it was just a bad week for me and luckily I was able to forget about it and play well in the Open. 

It was nice of them to give me a spot this year to play in the tournament and I think it definitely helped me in my performance in the Open.  I will definitely think about it for sure. 


Q.  Do you have a lot of match-play experience?

CHAD CAMPBELL:  Not too much.  I think I've only played in competition two times in the U.S. Amateur in '95 I guess.  Played two rounds there.  Definitely it's a long way to go, it's a long way off.  But I'm sitting pretty good right now.  I think I might be ninth in the standings.  That's definitely a goal of mine.  I think that would be one of the ultimate things to achieve is to be on the Ryder Cup team and to be able to play for your country. 


Q.  Feelings before Shaun hit that shot on the 72nd hole?

CHAD CAMPBELL:   I definitely did.  Last few holes, of course the rough was so high there that if you didn't get the ball in the fairway, you could make any sorts of numbers.  Just trying to get the ball in the fairway, and I did that, and after Shaun hit his shot, I really didn't know how close it was.  I knew that was going to be a tough pin over there.  If he was even six feet past the hole, that's not  -- even three feet past the hole, it's not a for sure that he's going to make it. 

Until I walked up on the green I really didn't know what was going on and then I saw that it was about two inches and then I kind of dropped my head. 


Q.  Playing Ben Curtis?

CHAD CAMPBELL:   I haven't played with Ben.  I just recently started to talk to him and get to know him a little bit.  I'm looking forward to it tomorrow, definitely.  I think we'll have a good time out there and hopefully play some good golf. 

SCOTT CROCKETT:  Chad, very well played.  Good luck tomorrow. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT