PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2003
Chad Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Why don't you talk about your round? 
 CHAD CAMPBELL:   I felt like I played really solid today.  I hit a lot of fairways and a lot of greens and really made it pretty easy on myself, being able to drive the ball in the fairway.  I made my only bogey on 18.  I drove it in the rough and had about a five or six-footer for par, but it was downhill. 
Other than that, I just feel like I played really solid. 

Q.  Seem to be getting the hang of these things.  You played well at both Opens; are you feeling more comfortable?
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Yeah, I think so.  I'm kind of learning what it takes to do better in these tournaments.  Trying to be a little bit more patient and make more pars and not trying to be so aggressive. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?
CHAD CAMPBELL:   I think you have to out here, because even is always a good score and you don't want to  -- you know, you don't want to take too many chances and get yourself behind the 8-ball. 

Q.  Did you have any experience with the rough? 
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Not today.  I actually only missed two fairways, I believe.  One I missed so bad it was where the gallery was walking, so it wasn't too bad. 
18, I actually drove it into a pretty good lie.  Thought I could get it to the green but couldn't; got it just on the upslope. 

Q.  Are these fairways particularly hard to fit or is it just knowing that the rough is up so much, that frightens players? 
CHAD CAMPBELL:   I think that might be more of the thing.  They are still pretty soft but they have gotten firmer since yesterday.  But if they get firmer, there's a couple of fairways that are rolling on top and it will be a lot harder to hit.

Q.  Were you aware when you came in of the other story that's going on in the northeast, the power? 
CHAD CAMPBELL:   No.  I had no idea.  That's the first I've heard of it. 

Q.  New York City is without power, most of New York. 
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Wow.  Obviously, that's not a good thing.  I don't know what the cause of that is.  I'm not educated on it so really can't comment on it. 

Q.  In the scoring area, are there lights in there?
CHAD CAMPBELL:   There are no lights in there.  Actually it was dark.  I didn't think anything of it.  I just kind of looked a little harder. 

Q.  Worried about air conditioning in your hotel tonight?
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Yeah, that would be nice.   Definitely don't want to go without AC.  




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT