BANK OF AMERICA COLONIAL
May 23, 2003
Chad Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 TODD BUDNICK:  Like to welcome Chad Campbell to the interview room.  Through your second consecutive 3-under 67.  6-under par for the tournament after two rounds.  You're in good spot.  You're two back of the leader whose not finished yet.  Talk a little bit about this week so far.  I know the conditions on Monday were much different than the conditions today and I think than yesterday and I think that today probably changed a little bit.  Dried out a little bit more.
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Yeah, it did a little bit.  We got out here Tuesday and it was pretty wet.   Couldn't help it though.  There was a lot of rain.  The course was handling it real well.  And the greens are a little bit soft but probably softer than they would like them.  As far as the fairways, a little mud here and there.  But overall they're firming up pretty good.  Should be fine for tomorrow. 
TODD BUDNICK:  No bogeys today, three birdies.  Talk a little where your game is this week.
CHAD CAMPBELL:  I feel like I'm playing pretty solid.  Especially today.  Didn't put myself in too bad of positions.  When I did miss a drive it was in the right side of the fairway, in the right rough, so I would have an angle to the pin.  As far as the round, do you want me to go through the holes? 
TODD BUDNICK:  Sure, we can do that. 
CHAD CAMPBELL:  I started on the back.  Birdied 12.  I hit driver, sand wedge to about 12 feet.  Made that. 
Then 18 driver, wedge, to about 10 feet. 
Number 1, that was driver, 3-wood, just off about pin high, just left side of the, left edge of the green and chipped up and made about a three footer for birdie. 
Par the rest of the way in. 
TODD BUDNICK:  Is that frustrating at all finishing around with eight straight pars?  Did you have any good chances there?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  Not really.  I had some good chances.  There's some good holes, like three, four and five are good holes.  You're just trying to make par on those.  And if you do that you're doing good.  Even had a few chances on six, seven, eight, longer putt on nine, but most of those are 20, 15, 20 footers.  So not definitely makes, but definitely get looks at it. 
TODD BUDNICK:  Okay.  Go ahead and take questions. 
Q.  You had a real good first year, you're having a lot better year this year, how did you evaluate everything in the off season and what did you accentuate going into this year?
CHAD CAMPBELL: Nothing, really.  I think the reason for playing better this year is mainly because I feel a lot more comfortable.  And knowing the golf courses, like here this is my second time here around this course.  And especially a course like this every time can you play it you learn something new about different pins and just seeing and playing all the pins on each hole, that helps out a lot. 

Q.  The lack of wind at this course, in your opinion, how does that make the course play much easier than with the wind swirling?
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Yeah, definitely.  I think that you don't catch this course two days in a row without wind too often.  It does make it play a little bit easier, but you still got to hit a lot of good shots out there. 

Q.  Talk about the position you put yourself in for the weekend.  Two solid rounds like you said, there might have been a few more birdies out there, but solid rounds?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  Yeah, definitely happy with my first two rounds and looking forward to the weekend.  Feel like I'm playing good.  Hopefully I can just keep it up and maybe make a few more putts. 

Q.  You're accustomed to winning a lot of golf tournaments and you've finished second three times this year.  How hard is it to be patient and wait for that first win to come.  Are you getting anxious at all about it?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  Yeah, I am.  But I feel like if I keep putting myself in the right position having chances to win, the more times you do it, sooner or later one of them has got to go your way.  So that's the way I'm looking at it. 

Q.  Do you carry any different clubs in your bag this week for this course than you might normally?
CHAD CAMPBELL:   No, I didn't.  I usually don't.  I usually always carry the same clubs, regardless of the course type. 

Q.  Talk about playing in your own backyard here.  How much fun is that?  How does it feel playing in front of family and friends?
CHAD CAMPBELL:   It's a lot of fun.  It's a little bit hectic sometimes, but it's a lot of fun playing in front of friends and family.  Maybe put a little bit added pressure on myself because I want to play good.  They don't get to see me play all the time, so it's nice to be able to come out and play well for them.

Q.  What have the crowds been like for you?  You have played opposite times of Annika the first two days, benefit to you do you think or to be able to relax or do you still notice the swelling of the crowds around your group?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  No, I've got a lot of people here just like I said, full of friends and family.  And I don't know if it's really an advantage or not.  Not having a crowd.  I like playing in front of crowds.  If they're there, good; if they're not, if you don't have any people following you, that means that you're not doing too good, I guess. 

Q.  You and Judd Burkett go back a few years.  Describe your relationship as you as the pro and he as the caddy as the second year on TOUR?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  Yes, sir.  I think it goes back to what I said before, seeing the golf courses, now we both seen them twice, it makes it a lot easier, just the knowledge that we can both get from seeing every pin and knowing where to hit it, where not to hit it on each course too each pin. 

Q.  Why do you think you were so well prepared to come out here and do so well to in the beginning.  I know you kind of went the long way.  How much do you think that paid off for you?
CHAD CAMPBELL:   I think it helped out a lot.  Playing four years on the Hooter's Tour and then one year on the Nationwide.  I really wouldn't have changed the way I went about it.  I learned a lot of stuff.  I learned how to win.  Was fortunate enough to win quite a few times on the Hooter's and then also on the Nationwide.  So hopefully that will pay off for me. 

Q.  Did you tell yourself that during those years that this was the way to go?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  No, I wasn't telling myself that.  But I was saying that was the hardest time to be so patient.  Because every year I would go to the TOUR school and a couple times I got through second stage, but I always got through first.  But it was -- it's not any fun missing second stage, so.

Q.  Did you ever any real close calls like the last hole or anything like that in second stage?
CHAD CAMPBELL:   I was always within two or three shots of making it. 
TODD BUDNICK:  All right.  Thank you, Chad. 
CHAD CAMPBELL:  All right.  Thanks, guys. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT