MCI HERITAGE
April 18, 2003
Chad Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Thank you, Chad, for joining us, another good round, 4-under par 67 to add to your one from yesterday.  You got up there early this morning and I think the conditions were a little different throughout the day.  Why don't you just talk about the conditions and how you played and then we'll go into questions.
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Conditions were actually perfect.  There was no wind, a little overcast.  It was just perfect.  Obviously the course is in great shape, and just played really solid.  Didn't make too many mistakes.  I think I did have two bogeys but didn't get myself in that much trouble and was able to make a few birdies. 

Q.  Are you happy that you're not out there this afternoon with wind/rain? 
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Yeah, definitely.  I mean, it's always nice to be done and get through in great weather.  It was perfect for us out there.  I thought it might rain this morning but somebody kept it away.  Definitely glad to be done.

Q.  How often have you played here before?
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Last year was my first year. 

Q.  When you walked off the course yesterday, do you look at a 67 in the afternoon, do you think to yourself that that is a better 67 than maybe some of the guys who did it in the morning before the winds came up? 
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Maybe.  I think yesterday was a little different.  I think the winds didn't blow that hard, a couple of times yesterday it was blowing straight down on 17 pretty good.  I didn't feel like the wind affected us really that much in the afternoon. 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Let's go through your round.  You started on 10, birdied 16. 
CHAD CAMPBELL:   I hit driver, pitching wedge to six feet, made it. 
Birdied 17.  Hit 8-iron to probably eight feet. 
2, hit driver, 3-iron into the short right bunker and hit it out to about a foot. 
4, hit a bad 4-iron right of the green and chipped to about 20 feet, missed the putt for par.
5, I drove it right down the middle, had 2-iron in, hit it a little bit right of the green and chipped it to about 15 feet and made it.
7, hit 5-iron just right off the edge of the green.  Didn't hit a very good chip to about eight feet, missed the putt. 
8, hit driver, 7-iron to about three feet. 
9, hit 2-iron, 60-degree wedge to about eight feet. 

Q.  Since Brian Hewitt has been touting you, are you finding there's more and more demands on your time off the course these days?
CHAD CAMPBELL:   You know, I'm really not.  I don't know if that's good or bad, but I'm not.  It's been pretty much the same it's always been. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT