THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 16, 2003
Chad Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Chad, thanks for joining us.  Final round 65 puts you in a tie with Davis Love for second place. 
You had a second place finish at Tucson a couple of weeks ago.  I'm sure you'd like to win your first Tour event but you can only do one better this week and you obviously played well. 
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Thanks a lot.  Yeah, you know I feel like I played real well today.  Really happy with my play this weekend.  I just wanted to have a chance on the back nine today to win and I gave myself that opportunity, but just fell a couple short. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Do you feel like you won three times on the Nationwide Tour two years ago, do you feel like the PGA TOUR, you're ready to knock that door down, as well?
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Yeah, I do.  I feel like I'm playing real well right now and just keeping up the same things that I'm doing and hopefully it will come. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Okay.  We'll take some questions. 
Q.  How did it play today versus the other three days, and what did you not do on the back side that you wish if you had a chance to take it back now that you would have done? 
CHAD CAMPBELL:   I felt like I pretty much played the same as I did all week.  Early, there was not near as much wind and there has been it's pretty calm.  But as far as the back nine only thing I'd like to play that par-3 14, I made bogey there.  Other than that, I'd always like to have a few more putts fall. 

Q.  Can you talk about 17?
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Same thing I knew I needed to make birdie have a chance.  I knew Justin was already 25.  I gave myself a good chance and just didn't hit a very good putt. 

Q.  How different is this week from a Nationwide Tour event? 
CHAD CAMPBELL:   It's a lot different.  Just the players, it's so difficult to win out here.  I've had quite a few chances this year and played well but have not been able to get it done.  There seems to be more people around the lead and it makes it harder to win tournaments. 

Q.  How far was the putt on 18? 
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Probably 15 feet or so.  Maybe 20 feet.  I left it right in the middle about a foot short.

Q.  Are you surprised 24-under made it knowing that Justin was 25?
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Not really.  The finishing holes are really tough and I felt like if I could get to 24-under, it would make that hole a little bit harder for me.  I don't even know if he made par.  Little bit easier to play the hole with a two-shot lead, so I played great this week.

Q.  How easy is it to focus on just making the shots and not thinking about the scores?
CHAD CAMPBELL:   A lot of times it's difficult.  You know, watching the board and knowing you need to make birdies, it puts a little pressure on you.  But you've got to relax and be patient and know that you give yourself enough opportunities they will start falling. 

Q.  What will you take from this  --
CHAD CAMPBELL:   I'm happy starting the day four shots back on a course where you're going to make a lot of birdies, I feel like I played good today, finished well birdie, birdie, eagle, par finish.  I could not really ask much more. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Congratulations.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT