GREATER GREENSBORO CHRYSLER CLASSIC
April 27, 2002
Chad Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  I would like to welcome Chad Campbell to the media center.  A great round today, a 66, six under par, and you're sitting 11 under for the tournament.  Talk about your day a little bit and we'll get into some questions.
CHAD CAMPBELL: I got off to a real good start.  I think I birdied the first three holes and parred four and birdied 5, I believe.  I think that's what happened.  And then kind of didn't really  -- had a little struggle on 10 through about like 14.  Really didn't hit very many good shots.  I was really struggling for pars.  And then I made a good birdie on 15 and a good par on 16, good par on 17 and birdied 18.

Q.  Obviously you won on the Nike Tour.  A little different story here?
CHAD CAMPBELL: I feel good.  I feel like I'm playing pretty well and I drove it a lot better today than I have in the past few days.  And that's what you need to do out here.  The rough is pretty nasty.  If you can get the ball in the fairway you can somewhat attack the course. There are a few pins even from the fairway that you can't really go at, but it does make it a lot easier when you are in the fairway.

Q.  Was your driving the key today?
CHAD CAMPBELL: Yeah, I think so probably, because I hit a lot more fairways than I did especially yesterday.  I struggled yesterday hitting fairways.  And I came out today and hit a lot of fairways and made it easier on myself.

Q.  You are in contention.
CHAD CAMPBELL: Yes, sir.  I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  I got in contention at Bay Hill earlier this year, and didn't play well in the final round.  I would like to play a solid round tomorrow and see what it does.

Q.  After a 30 on the front side, were you thinking you would have an unbelievable score?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  Actually no.  I was trying to keep doing the same things I was doing, hit fairways and hit greens.  And I hit a good tee shot on 10 and hit a pretty good second shot, it just went over the green and made bogey.  It kind of turned things around right there.  I kind of got on an -- I don't know what you said.  It changed momentum a little bit and I didn't really get it back until the end of the round.

Q.  (Inaudible)?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  It's very difficult.  I don't know when they started doing that '94, '95, something like that, and there had only been one prior to last year, and for three guys to go out there and do it last year is amazing, especially the way he did it.  He did it in a span of 6 weeks, I think, he won 3 times.  Looking back on it, it's such a big deal, because by getting that you get into all the tournaments this year, and I didn't really realize that at the time, and now I'm really glad that that happened for me.

Q.  Have you ever been here before?
CHAD CAMPBELL: No, sir.

Q.  When you got here, for some practice rounds, did you think the course fit your game or not?
CHAD CAMPBELL: I liked it.  It's an older style course and I seem to like that a lot better.

Q.  You were the running leader on the Hooters Tour three straight years; is that right?
CHAD CAMPBELL: Yes.

Q.  Why didn't you progress a little quicker?
CHAD CAMPBELL: I wish I knew.  There was one year in there, I can't really recall, that I had status on the Nike Tour, but I had bonus from Hooters, and it was a pretty significant amount and at the time I felt that was the best thing to do, is to go back and play there.  Luckily now it worked out.  Everything worked out all right and I'm happy with all the decisions I've made.

Q.  How much experience have you drawn from two years ago?  You won eight times I think?
CHAD CAMPBELL: How much did I get from winning eight times?

Q.  How much experience?
CHAD CAMPBELL: Quite a bit.  Every time I can get a chance to win, you know, no matter where I'm playing, I think it definitely helps.  Obviously it's a little different out here.  The players are the best in the world, but all the times that you get up there, you learn something different and it definitely makes you feel more comfortable.

Q.  What happened at Bay Hill?
CHAD CAMPBELL: What happened? 

Q.  Yes.
CHAD CAMPBELL: I shot 80 on Sunday.

Q.  Were you nervous?  Why did you shoot 80, do you think?
CHAD CAMPBELL: I wasn't really that nervous, actually.  I was nervous in the third round and I played really well in the third round.  The last round I got a couple of bad breaks early, and I kind of got down on myself, and hitting bad shots.  Just kind of one of those days.  I try to forget about it.

Q.  Can you forget about it going out tomorrow?  You'll probably be chasing two guys that have won out here before.
CHAD CAMPBELL: Definitely, I know it's not going to be easy tomorrow, but I'm going to go out and play as hard as I can and hopefully I'll play well and see where it puts me.

Q.  Are you familiar with the success that first-time players have you had here in the past?
CHAD CAMPBELL: Actually, I'm not.

Q.  There are a lot of first time winners here.
CHAD CAMPBELL: That's good.  I've got something going for me.

Q.  The Jaycees this afternoon announced to raise the purse to $4.5 million in 2003.  Will that have any impact on the quality of the field in the future? 
CHAD CAMPBELL: You know, I really don't know.  I don't know.  Some of the guys, the time of year that it falls was kind of why they would take this week off.  I'm just playing everything I can right now.  I need to be playing.  I need to make some money.  I really don't know how it will affect all the other players.  It's hard for me to speak for them.

Q.  So what did you as a Campbell think about playing with a guy named Heintz?
CHAD CAMPBELL: Actually, I didn't even think of that.  We've played together quite a few times before.  He played on the Hooters Tour with me for a few years, and last year he was on the Buy.Com, and we got paired together a few time.  We're actually pretty good friends.  So it was pretty relaxing to be able to play with him.

Q.  What would you do to have a mind set that you want to win tomorrow rather than not messing up?
CHAD CAMPBELL: Like I say, just go out there and try to hit fairways and play my own game and not worry about what everybody else is doing, because I have no control over that.  Just try to make birdies and give myself a lot of opportunities and hopefully the putts will fall.





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT