SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 22, 2015
Chad Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Eight birdies and an opening 65, delightful way to start in a place that you know very well.  
CHAD CAMPBELL: Yeah, it is.  It's always nice coming back here and nice to get off to a good round today.  You know, I didn't quite hit it my best, but I made a few putts, a couple longer putts, so that's what you've got to do around here.   
 Q.  Take us back to your college days and what you know about these parts and why you like playing here.  
CHAD CAMPBELL: Yeah, you know, college was great here.  Coach was awesome, and you know, I just love being here.  A lot of good people out here, big supporters of UNLV, and I always enjoy coming back.   
 Q.  How are you feeling about your game overall?  
CHAD CAMPBELL: You know, I had five weeks off going into last week, so didn't play my best last week, but I feel like my game is coming around.  I had some decent tournaments last year, and I feel like I'm headed in the right direction.   
 Q.  Your putter seemed to be working really well out there.  
CHAD CAMPBELL: Yeah, you know, rolled it pretty good today.  Being able to make a couple longer putts, that always helps, and hopefully keep it going for the rest of the week.   
 Q.  What kind of mindset are you giving to the next few days?  
CHAD CAMPBELL: You know, the hard thing is you know you've got to make a lot of birdies out here, so you've got to get out and play pretty aggressive.  You're pretty much trying to birdie every hole.  There's some -- there's a few shots out there that you need to be careful with, but for the most part you're just trying to make a lot of birdies.   
 Q.  You mentioned you had some time off.  What do you think has been changed?  
CHAD CAMPBELL: Not much.  Just five weeks off before last week, so didn't play a whole lot during that time.  So just another week under my belt and being able to get back in the groove.   
 Q.  What are you looking for tomorrow?  
CHAD CAMPBELL: Hopefully a lot of the same.  Hopefully I can go out tomorrow and hit it a little bit better.  I wasn't totally happy with the way I hit my irons, but definitely happy with my round.   
 Q.  Some guys are having trouble with 17.  How did you play that?  
CHAD CAMPBELL: I made bogey there.  I hit a bad tee shot into the right bunker and wasn't able to get it up-and-down.   
 Q.  Is the hole playing differently than in years past, because a lot of guys are having trouble.  
CHAD CAMPBELL: You know, not really.  I wouldn't say -- I know when we first started, some of the greens were soft, some of the greens were hard, so it's kind of hard to know if -- if you knew it was going to be soft, you could hit it right at it, otherwise you could land it on the front of the green, because you land it past that pin, it'll go to the back of the green.   
 Q.  And it was hard, wasn't it?  
CHAD CAMPBELL: I don't know, because I didn't hit it.  I didn't hit it.   
 Q.  It's usually in the shade, so it's probably hard I'm guessing.  
CHAD CAMPBELL: It was kind of weird, they were pretty firm there early, and you know, a couple of them got -- were soft, so it was hard to kind of judge.   
 Q.  What little adjustments do you think you'll be making before you tee off tomorrow to hit a few more fairways and give yourself a few more chances?  
CHAD CAMPBELL: Yeah, I'm going to go hit a few balls and just kind of try to get that all figured out, and hopefully keep making some putts and see what happens.   
 Q.  How many rounds do you think you've played here?  
CHAD CAMPBELL: Well, I've played the tournament here pretty much every year for -- I think I skipped one year, that was it.  That's a lot of rounds, and in college.   
 Q.  Was this your home course in college?  
CHAD CAMPBELL: No, not our home course, but we probably played out here once a week, once every other week.   
 Q.  Is that familiarity giving you any kind of edge?  
CHAD CAMPBELL: I mean, it's always nice to be able to -- a course that you've played a lot.  You can kind of know a little bit of the breaks and where to hit it and where to not hit it.  We played it in a lot of different conditions a lot of times in college when it was like 40 degrees and the wind was blowing 40.  So a lot of the holes played a lot different back then.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT