RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2015
Chad Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You've had a lot of low rounds in your great career, but how special is it?  It's still a great feeling?CHAD CAMPBELL: Yeah, it was.  It was a great round.  Kind of got it rolling there on the back with the three par-5s, and continued on the front nine, so I was definitely happy the way I played.  It's a great golf course.  It's fun.  You can make a lot of birdies, but if you get out of position, you kind of get some bad angles.Q. You missed that short one that's five-and-a-half feet there on the last hole.  But even still, you think you got everything out of this round?CHAD CAMPBELL: Yeah.  Obviously, you see things that you could have done better.  But definitely after that I drove it in the left rough, so to be able to get it in that position was pretty fortunate.  So can't complain.Q. Talk about the weekend.  A lot of guys are going low.  You'll probably have to keep this up, aren't you?CHAD CAMPBELL: Yeah, I think so.  Like I said, with the par-5s being reachable, a lot of birdie and eagle chances and playing so fast right now, a lot of chances at birdie, so got to keep going.Q. Have you always liked Glen Abbey?CHAD CAMPBELL: I have.  It's probably my third or fourth time to play here.  I have always enjoyed it.Q. Keep it going man, the front runner.  You like being the front runner?CHAD CAMPBELL: Yeah, definitely.  I love it.Q. A pretty solid round today, nine birdies, no bogeys.  How did it go out there for you?CHAD CAMPBELL: It was good.  We were the second group off this morning out the back.  So birdied 11, and birdied the par-5s on the back nine, so kind of got rolling, so definitely happy with the way I played.Q. Any particulars that were really working for you out there today?CHAD CAMPBELL: Not really.  Keeping the ball off the fairway for the most part.  Made a few putts, which is always nice.Q. Last time this tournament was held at this golf course, you finished tied for 16th.  Are you drawing off that experience this week?CHAD CAMPBELL: I've always liked the golf course.  So I think this is my third or fourth time to play on this course.  I've always enjoyed it.  I feel like I just feel comfortable on it.Q. What do you think is going to be needed for the weekend?  Guys are going to go low?CHAD CAMPBELL: I think so.  Not much wind out there today, so I think there will be a lot of low scores today and perhaps continue with a lot of birdies this weekend.Q. Nice round.  What do you owe it to?CHAD CAMPBELL: A little bit of everything.  I played solid all day.  I was able to make some putts and made a couple long ones out there.  So that's always nice.  The course is playing really fast.  You can get a lot of opportunities if you get the ball on the fairway, and the par-5s are reachable.  So a lot of chances out there.Q. Are the greens soft?  Is it easy to get the ball to stop?CHAD CAMPBELL: No, if you're in the fairway you can get it to stop.  If you're in the rough, you can get bad angles and it's hard to keep it on the green.  The rough is kind of tricky if you run through them.  It's kind of where people walk and it's dying out, so pretty tough up-and-downs if you do miss greens.Q. Any idea that 62 was a possibility on the ninth green with a nice birdie putt to tie the course record?CHAD CAMPBELL: Yeah, I didn't know that.  It would have been nice to make that one.  But after driving the left rough, I was pretty happy just to have it up on the green.Q. What about your comfort level on this course?  In the past you said you enjoy it here, and obviously the good vibes continue for you?CHAD CAMPBELL: I do.  I really enjoy this course.  It's playing great and in great condition, the greens are perfect and the fairways are super fast, and like you said, I feel comfortable.Q. Was there any point in today's round where you thought I've got something really good going and you just have to keep it going?CHAD CAMPBELL: It's kind of weird because it happened with the par-5s, knocking them on there in two, and two-putting.  So kind of just kept it rolling all day.  Never really felt like it was going to be a crazy round, which nine birdies definitely happy with it.  But it was interesting that it was not getting on the par-5s and keeping the ball on the fairways.Q. So it didn't feel like you had anything special going, just solid play?CHAD CAMPBELL: Yeah, just solid play.  I made a couple long putts which always helps.  Like I said, we got the par-5s.  It was a great round.Q. How do you assess the way your season's gone?CHAD CAMPBELL: A little better this year than the past couple years.  It's been a struggle the last few years, so definitely feel like I'm heading in the right direction with a little better play.Q. Is there a reason why?CHAD CAMPBELL: I wish I knew.  I wish I had known a few years ago what it was.  Just continue to work hard at it and making a few more putts, that always helps momentum and other things.  So heading in the right direction, so I'm happy with that.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT