ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 24, 2015
Chad Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Birdied the last for 68?   
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Yeah, that's right.  
   
 Q.   A birdie on his final hole of the day, good enough for a 68 here on Friday.   Chad, how pleased are you with the effort?   
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Yeah, definitely happy with the way I played the first two days.   Didn't play quite as well today, but I still got around.  
   
 Q.   What were the conditions like out there these first two days?   This place seemingly is set up to go well?  
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Yeah, it is.   It's obviously soft with all the rain they've gotten, but surprisingly it's not as wet as you would think as far as all the rain they got last week and even what we got yesterday.   So the course is in good shape and definitely low scores out there.  
   
 Q.   When you know that, how aggressive do you get when you know someone behind you or in front of you is going to go well?   
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Yeah, it's usually tough.   Because we play this course and it's usually firm and fast, and there are a lot of pins you have to work it into, and now you have to hit it right at them.   So definitely that part makes it I a little bit easier.  
   
 Q.   Good position after two rounds.   How do you keep it going into the weekend?   
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Do the same things and see what happens.   Hopefully, we'll come out and play well tomorrow and see where we go.  
   
 Q.   Just an overall impression of the round?   You started out with a bogey, but then were really able to do something?   
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Yeah, right, I felt like I played pretty well all day.   Made a few birdies, finished with one bogey, and played pretty solid.  
   
 Q.   The conditions out here is the course still really soft?   
CHAD CAMPBELL:   No, you know, it's a little wet.   It's not as bad as you would think.   There is no casual water on the fairways, which is a little surprising as far as how much rain we've gotten over the last week or week and a half.   But it's definitely soft.   The greens are soft, so you have to fire right at it.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT