RBC HERITAGE
April 13, 2012
Chad Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Kept it under par for a second straight day.   Well done.   Conditions a little different than they were yesterday?
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Yeah, they were.   Not much wind out there.   A little bit there at the end, but not much at all.   It was pretty perfect conditions this morning.

Q.   You got a little better end of the draw then?
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Probably so. 

Q.   I was going to say you've had enough of the other kind?
CHAD CAMPBELL:   It pretty much evens out throughout the year.   But definitely this week I got the advantage.

Q.   You told us yesterday that these things were coming, you felt good about your games, just the numbers had to come with it.   Did that continue today or do you think you could have gotten more numbers‑wise with the round today?
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Obviously I could.   I could have made some more putts.   I think it kind of evened out.   I didn't play quite as well as yesterday.   But hopefully this weekend I'll play a little better.

Q.   Firmer and faster today than yesterday or did it slow down?
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Yeah, pretty similar.   Obviously a little bit slower in the mornings, with a bit of water on the ground.   Still pretty tough.   These greens are tough right now.

Q.   Jim Furyk told me yesterday he'd never seen it this firm and fast.   You've been here a lot of times, too.   Have you seen it like this? 
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Maybe on Sunday, about the only time they get the greens that fast.   But it's been quite a test for this week.

Q.   This is almost Texas style‑like, firm and fast?
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Yeah, it was.   With the wind yesterday it was.   It's definitely a good course.   I think everybody enjoys it.

Q.   Enjoy the rest of your Friday afternoon.   Are you going to get out and do something?
CHAD CAMPBELL:   I don't know what I'm going to do.   I'll figure something out, probably hit a few balls in practice a little bit. 

Q.   A lot of fish to catch, go get 'em. 
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Thanks.

Q.   You're into the weekend, talk about your performance here on day 2. 
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Yeah, I didn't putt quite as well as I did yesterday.   Conditions were a little bit easier this morning when we came out.   But I'm happy with where I stand.

Q.   You know you're going to be in the hunt on the weekend, that's has to be what you were aiming at?
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Absolutely.   That's what you try to shoot for and hopefully I'll come out this weekend and put up a good round up and put myself in position to win.

Q.   How different were the conditions today from yesterday?
CHAD CAMPBELL:   Quite a bit different.   Not nearly as much wind.   Pretty good scoring conditions out here this morning, especially compared to yesterday morning. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT