THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2011
Chad Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CHAD CAMPBELL: Felt like I played really well today, had a lot of good tee shots and gave myself a lot of good chances for birdie. Got in trouble a little bit a couple times but not too bad. Definitely happy with the start. 

 Q. Did you think 65 was out there today?
 CHAD CAMPBELL: I had some opportunities, but 65 is a really good score. A lot of tough holes, but there's some holes that you can make birdies, and you've really got to take advantage of those.

 Q. Coming in here how did you feel?
 CHAD CAMPBELL: You know, honestly I felt pretty good about it. I felt like everything was going the right direction. Obviously my results back in the States haven't been that great, but still feel very positive about the way I'm playing and headed in the right direction.

 Q. Partly because of the flat stick, or is it something else? 
 CHAD CAMPBELL: Yeah, mainly that probably. A little bit of everything. I feel like I'm hitting it okay, but just at times hit a couple bad shots a round has been hurting me. Obviously the putting hasn't been great, and I feel like I've been working on that, and hopefully start rolling it a little bit better.

 Q. Based on the way you played today, was this score exactly what you think you should have gotten?
 CHAD CAMPBELL: I felt like I played really good, really good today. I had a few more opportunities out there that I could have took advantage of, but never disappointed with 1-under. 

 Q. You can't win the first day but you can lose the first day. Do you go along with that on a day like today?
 CHAD CAMPBELL: Definitely. You can shoot yourself out of it on the first day and you want to hang around. There's a lot of golf left, and guys going out right now, the wind has kind of died down a bit, so there should be some low scores this afternoon. 

 Q. Did you feel comfortable out there? Like these style of courses?
 CHAD CAMPBELL: I do. I haven't had much success. I played well here in '03 but other than that I haven't played that well. I enjoy coming over and playing this style of golf.

 Q. More of a mental game than a physical game at times? 
 CHAD CAMPBELL: I think so, definitely. You know, you just hope at the end of the week it all works out and breaks even. Definitely going to get some bad bounces out there with some of the humps and bumps in the fairways.

 Q. Why success here versus the other venues?
 CHAD CAMPBELL: I wish I knew. I don't know, this was my first one that I played in, and I really don't have a good answer for you. I don't know why that is. I really don't know why. 

 Q. Over all these years, no matter what you did and no matter what they were doing there was always a Tiger question that was asked. Now there's always a Rory question. Is it important to have sort of this figure out there that the general public -- not these golf people who are absorbed with golf all the time, but some identifying person out there? 
 CHAD CAMPBELL: You know, I don't know. We have had that for so long with Tiger. I don't think it's going anywhere. I think he'll be back. But I think the game is great. I think there's so many good players, and what Rory did at the Open is pretty spectacular. Definitely got the game in good hands.

 Q. Is it important to have someone to talk about in the game? 
 CHAD CAMPBELL: Yeah, it is. I think what he did there was great. I think everybody took notice, and it's definitely good for the game of golf. 

 Q. I know things can happen, but looking at him the best you can now, barring anything wrong, is this guy going to be one of the greats?
 CHAD CAMPBELL: Well, you've got to think so, but it's hard. You don't want to put that kind of pressure on him this early in his career. Pretty impressive to come back after what happened to him at the Masters, to be able to win The Open the way he did. 
 But he's young, I don't know how old he is, 21, 22, somewhere in there. Got a great golf swing and good head on his shoulders it seems like. I don't know him that well, but he definitely has a lot of game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT