SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 6, 2008
Chad Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DAVE SENKO: Chad, thanks for joining us. Just quick we'll get some questions. Just before we do, if you just give us a quick recap. 3 over on the front and made a good run in the back and --  
 CHAD CAMPBELL: Yeah. Didn't get off to a great start. Felt like I hit the ball better today than yesterday, which is funny. That's why this game is crazy.  
 You know, hit a couple poor drives on the front-9 and kind of had some weird lies in the bunker and hit really poor shots from there. I was pretty proud of myself the way I fought back on the back-9. At least gave myself a chance to win. I wish I could have hit a few better iron shots coming down the stretch. It didn't work out.  
 DAVE SENKO: Questions?  
  
  Q. Can you talk about the comeback on the back-9 a little bit more, how close you got?  
 CHAD CAMPBELL: Yeah. I had a good look at 9. I had probably 12 feet on 9. Wasn't able to make that. I had a good look at 10. Probably 10 feet and then as able to birdie the next three. I made some good putts on those holes. 16-foot, 11-foot, 7-foot.  
 Then birdied 15. Birdied 15, and on 16 I hit the shot I was trying to hit. I just pulled it just a hair, and because we were right between clubs and you couldn't really feel the wind, I had to hit a really good flighted 5-iron to get it up top. Pulled it a little bit. But happy with the way the back-9. At least I can take that away from the tournament. Obviously disappointed with finishing second, but at least I gave myself a chance.  
  
  Q. How about that last putt? Looked like it had a chance?  
 CHAD CAMPBELL: It had a really good chance. I don't know what I was, 50 feet or so. Wasn't the best iron shot. At least it had a chance to go in. Never know what will happen if it would have went in.  
  
  Q. At 16 was that one where you were playing fairly aggressively, then pulled it a smidge? Because the pin is over there left a little bit.  
 CHAD CAMPBELL: Honestly, I didn't realize the wind was blowing that much out of the left. I still pulled it a hair. I was aiming up the middle of the green. Trying to hit a low hard hook to get it up that hill and just came over it a little bit, and the wind rode it over there left. It was an easy bunker shot, too. Didn't play the bunker shot very well.  
  
  Q. Can you just talk a little bit about Johnson and how -- you know, you've been through your first win, too and not that you were really pay attention, you were paying attention to your game, but you know, just the times that you look at him.  
 How did he handle things today?  
 CHAD CAMPBELL: He played great all day. He kept making birdies, and, you know -- we had -- I think when we started out, he was one shot ahead of me and three shots ahead of 3rd place. Is that right? He kind of just kept making birdies even when I wasn't putting any pressure on him. Sometimes you can get out there and be a little lazy and fall into what your playing partner is doing and just kind of playing match play.  
 He kept making birdies. I think he shot 2, 3-under on the front. I'm not positive. You know, back-9, just played solid. He made a lot of key putts coming in. 17, that was a huge par putt, and, you know, 18, it's a hard tee shot, you know. And with a 2-shot lead, there's only one place you don't want to hit it. He missed it on the right side and gave himself a chance to make par, and he did.  
 I am very impressed with the way he played today.  
  
  Q. Do you take any credit for how much you made him sweat today?  
 CHAD CAMPBELL: He sweats as much as I do. That's what I told my caddy on the last hole. He asked for a towel as much as I do. His hands must sweat like mine.  
  
  Q. Much conversation between you guys out there?  
 CHAD CAMPBELL: A little bit. We're both kind of going about our business. He's a good guy. I don't know him that well, but great player, obviously. We had a good time out there.  
  
  Q. You said you have plans next week. What are you going to do?  
 CHAD CAMPBELL: Tomorrow we find out the sex of our baby, so we're pretty excited about that.  
  
  Q. When is she due?  
 CHAD CAMPBELL: End of August, first part of September.  
 DAVE SENKO: Anyone have anymore questions?  
  
  Q. You're going to have an exciting meet no matter what, then.  
 CHAD CAMPBELL: It's the best tournament to watch on TV. I'll definitely watch it. I don't think I've ever missed one since I was about four years old. I just wish I was there playing in it. Then I can go home and watch it after I get done playing.  
  
  Q. What's up next for you in coming off -- obviously you're playing well. What's your next event?  
 CHAD CAMPBELL: I go to Hilton Head week after Augusta and then Byron Nelson for sure.  
  
  Q. You get to sleep in your own bed.  
 CHAD CAMPBELL: Exactly.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like this is kind of a good building point for your season? You've talked about it, you felt like you played well, but the results maybe haven't matched it. You haven't had that big finish. This is kind of --  
CHAD CAMPBELL: Like I was saying yesterday, you know, I felt like I played pretty well all year. And, you know, obviously I'm disappointed not to win but, you know, it's not the end of the world. It's definitely -- my game is going in the right direction. Like I said, I was definitely very proud of the way I fought back on the back-9.  
 DAVE SENKO: Okay. Thanks, Chad.  
 CHAD CAMPBELL: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT