SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 12, 2008
Chad Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Good playing today, just a couple highlights.  Obviously 18 for 18 greens is a feat in and of itself.  Just a couple highlights from the round. 
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  Got off to a great start, birdied the first two.  1 is probably one of the toughest holes out here, so to be able to get off to a start like that was great.  Turned 4-under, wasn't able to birdie 9, which kind of hurt.  Then missed some short ones at the start of the back nine. 
 But happy with the round, happy with the way I'm hitting it, just hopefully can get the putts to start falling. 

 Q.  Talk a little bit about the difference between last week and this week, course-wise.  You have to really employ just two totally different games? 
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  Yeah, I mean, it's totally different.  Last week you'd just kind of get up there and hit it off the tee, and this week the fairways are super-tight.  So it's totally different.  You know, I definitely prefer this one.  I like being able to work shots, and it's not near as long.  This is one of my favorite courses all year, so I really enjoy coming here. 

 Q.  What's the immediate plan from here as far as schedule goes? 
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  I'm playing the Hope and then playing Phoenix and LA. 

 Q.  And then lastly, were the weather conditions any different between yesterday and today?  Wind pretty much the same? 
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  You know what, the front nine the wind was all over the place.  It was coming from a lot of different directions.  You know, the back nine it was blowing a little bit different than it has been.  It switched just a hair.  I think it's supposed to switch again tomorrow. 

 Q.  We brought in Tim Wilkinson, and he said it didn't matter what hole it was, but on the back nine he felt like the wind was blowing into him the whole time. 
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  Well, you know, it was swirling.  If I think about it, I was into the wind a lot on the back nine except for 15 was about the only hole that didn't seem like the second shot played into the wind. 

 Q.  Keep the same strategy tomorrow? 
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  Yeah, absolutely.  You've got to get the ball in the fairway.  If you're not getting the ball in the fairway, you're just guessing all day and you can't do anything.  So get the ball in the fairway and see what happens from there. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT