JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2017
Chad Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You always play this course well.  What is it about it that suits your game?  
CHAD CAMPBELL: Yeah, just kind of visually I just really like the golf course.  A lot of shots I just really like.  It's always in such a good condition.  Such a fun event.   
Really enjoy coming here.   
 Q.  Missed it last year.  Kind of nice to be back?  
CHAD CAMPBELL: Yeah, absolutely.  Just didn't fall quite with the -- kind of moved the date on us last year and didn't fall in a perfect position for me.   
Definitely happy to be back.   
 Q.  Today, eight birdies.  What was working for you out there today?  
CHAD CAMPBELL: Hit the ball pretty well; was able to make a couple long putts down the front and couple good saves there.  A good save there on nine to keep it going, and was able to finish it off pretty good on the back.   
 Q.  Pleased you were able to regroup after 17?  
CHAD CAMPBELL: Yeah, for sure.  That was a pretty poor tee shot I hit on 17.  To be able to come back and birdie 18, that was good too.   
 Q.  You're two shots off the lead.  You got the morning group now.  They went low in the morning.  Do you have the mentality of you can go low tomorrow?  
CHAD CAMPBELL: Yeah, absolutely.  If you get the ball in the fairway, you know, this course will give yourself a lot of birdies - a lot of chances anyway.  Looking forward to in the morning hopefully I can do that.   
 Q.  Returning here, anything about this course that is coming back to you at all, that you're remembering, certain holes or anything?  
CHAD CAMPBELL: Oh, yeah.  I've been here so many times.  It's such a great event.  Really enjoy coming here.  Obviously, like I said, the holes really fit my eye, majority of them, so I have good thoughts before I start.   
 Q.  Heading into tomorrow, anything you'll look at differently or try and do better?  
CHAD CAMPBELL: You know, not really.  Just try to keep doing the same things.  Give myself opportunities, and hopefully I can capitalize when I do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT