ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 17, 2007
Chad Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHAD CAMPBELL:  Yeah, it was good, the start was pretty tough.  It was cool and played a little harder -- 1 and 2, and 3 and 4 are all pretty tough.  I hit 2-iron into 1, 3-iron into 2, 2-iron into 4.  So you know, definitely very tough holes, tough start and it was nice to get going.  I hit the ball great and made some putts.   
  
  Q.  How much of an advantage is it playing in the afternoon versus the morning?   
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  You know, I wouldn't say it's maybe that much.  It looks like the wind died down a little bit.  It was blowing pretty hard on 1.  You know, it was a little cooler.  But it's probably not that big of an advantage.   
  
  Q.  What happened on 18?   
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  I just kind of pulled it, I was right in between clubs and I just kind of pulled the longer club.   
  
  Q.  Were you trying to knock it down?   
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  Yeah, just trying to turn it, hold it up into that wind a little bit.  Was right over the top of it.   
  
  Q.  Hard to see in the bunker?   
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  Yeah, it was on a downslope -- inaudible -- let it trickle right, but I didn't think it was going to be that big of an issue.  Not the place to be, that's for sure.   
  
  Q.  Did you have a real bad lie if the bunker on 2?   
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  Yeah, I had a great 3-iron, just right of the hole.  I thought it was perfect.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  It was.  I didn't have nothing from there, just hit it in the middle of the green and 2-putt.   
  
  Q.  Tell us about the rest of your round, you must have hit some really good irons today.   
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  Yeah, I did.  I hit it solid today.  Kept the ball in the fairway most of the day and hit a lot of good iron shots.  One that I missed that I should have was on 13, 14 -- rolled the ball really well and starting to hit it a little more solid.   
  
  Q.  What's been your miss this year?   
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  It's been everywhere.  It's just, you know, drive it in the rough a lot and haven't putted that well.  But overall miss, probably left, but a little bit of both ways.   
  
  Q.  Are you trying to cut the ball with that driver now?   
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  No, it goes pretty straight.   
  
  Q.  How long have you had that in the bag?   
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  This week.   
  
  Q.  This week?   
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Did you know about the issue with it?   
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  Well, I had heard something this week.  Obviously they are checked and everything is fine on those.   
  
  Q.  So how do you feel using this versus the driver -- I guess you were using the other one, how did you feel about this one?   
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  Like I said, it seems to go straighter and right now that's what I need, just something that keeps the ball in the fairway, especially out here.  If you're in the rough, it's U.S. Open rough out here.   
 So, you know, just trying to get the ball in play and try to do something from there.   
  
  Q.  So the fact that you might lose ten yards, doesn't matter?   
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  Well, yeah, I don't really think I lose that much yardage.  You know, just kind of -- I'd say it's pretty even actually.   
  
  Q.  What did you hit on the par 3, the first birdie?   
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  3-wood, 8-iron.   
  
  Q.  You said a good bogey on 2 -- did you kind of get through those four holes --   
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  Yeah, if you can get through those holes even, you're doing all right.  It was brutal, especially with a little wait on No. 2.   
  
  Q.  What do you figure, it's like 20 degrees different right now maybe?   
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  Yeah.  It warmed up, finally took my top off.   
  
  Q.  Pretty tough, last week and this week?   
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  Yeah, I think it's a little bit tougher this time of year because of the rough being up.  Usually you know, it's long, but it's thin, you can get flyers and you can get the ball up around the green and have a chance.  The rest of the year, you're just kind of hacking it out.   
 I don't know, between this course and that course, I don't know, this one is playing pretty tough.   
  
  Q.  Usually you guys come to Florida, you don't see this, three weeks in a row.   
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  Yeah, it's great, they are all great golf courses, just going by what all of the guys have said as far as PGA National.  But everybody had great things to say about it.   
  
  Q.  Do you think you would go back there next year?   
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  Possibly.  It falls in a tough spot for me.  I like to play three tournaments and a week off.  That's kind of the way I like to do it.  I wouldn't miss this one.  Tampa is one of my favorites, as well.   
  
  Q.  Do you walk out of here today feeling good about the way you played or bad about the way you ended?   
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  Obviously I'm a little bitter about the ending, but you know, probably about the best round I've played this year.   
  
  Q.  Usually THE PLAYERS Championship in March gives guys a chance to warm up before Augusta, and now you don't have that, what does that do for a trip, pre-Masters to Augusta?   
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  You know, I'm not going to go.  I went a couple of years in the past but I don't think they -- I haven't heard of many changes.  I've heard a couple of things but I don't know if they are true or not.   
 You know, I've been around it quite a few times now.  It would be nice to but you go up there, it might be cold, you're hitting 3-woods into 1, you never know.  You hope it's warm during the tournament so you can get up that hill.   
  
  Q.  Is there anything about this week or next week that helps you get ready for Augusta or was THE PLAYERS Championship a better week in that regard?   
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  I think these tournaments are great.  Like I said, these are great golf courses.  I think playing tough golf courses, and those greens were a little softer earlier in the week and they are drying out now and tomorrow they are going to be nice and firm, especially with this wind blowing.   
  
  Q.  How are the pins today?  The scores are way, way higher because of the wind.  Did they bury them a little more?   
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  Possibly.  These greens have a bunch of good pins on them.  It seems like every day -- just because the greens are firming up a little bit.  The first two days, you just throw it right at it and it stops and that's very unusual around here.    
  
  Q.  First two days you had to worry about spinning it?   
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  Yeah, I was spinning 8-iron.  I didn't realize I could spin 8-irons, but they are firming up.   
  
  Q.  Is being surrounded this week and next week by the fields that are in these two events, does that in any way help you for Augusta?  Being on the range with the best, does that help?   
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  Kind of used to it by now.  I've been out here, this is my sixth year I believe.   
  
  Q.  But with the elite fields --   
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  I think it's great.  I know Doral is going to be probably pretty similar to this course as far as rough-wise, and I'm sure they will get the greens pretty firm.   
 You know, it's nice to play really tough golf courses going into a major because you know Augusta is going to be tough.  You know those greens are going to be hard and fast.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT