WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 25, 2007
Chad Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Is it hard to be motivated out there when you're at a match play event and you've already lost and you still have to play another one? 
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  A little bit, but you get out there and you still want to win.  Any time you're playing you want to win.  Obviously we were both disappointed we weren't playing in the other match, but you're still out there trying your best and trying to win. 

 Q.  How would you finish this question:  You haven't played this well in how long? 
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  It's been a little while.  You know, I haven't played that well obviously this year or the end of last year. 
 So it's nice to get -- not really rounds, but hit a few good shots and win some matches and get a little momentum going into Florida. 

 Q.  Do you think this can transfer into stroke play events for you? 
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  Absolutely.  It's always nice to get out there and hit good shots and make some putts for a change.  I haven't been doing much of that this year, so I'll definitely build off this and hopefully start playing good the next few events. 

 Q.  Was it a swing thing, a putting thing, a confidence thing? 
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  You know, it is a little bit of everything, more than anything driving the ball in the fairway.  I drove it out of play a couple times, but overall drove it really well this week for me.  I haven't been driving it well at all.  I haven't been driving it well for about close to a year now. 
 You know, it was nice, definitely build off of that, and I think I've got something going now. 

 Q.  You've tasted success before almost winning a major, you've played in a Ryder Cup, won a TOUR Championship.  Where do you see 2007 going for you after a week like this? 
 CHAD CAMPBELL:  You know, like I said, I'm just going to build on it, hope to improve.  Obviously I've still got a lot of things to improve on just to start, but driving is a crucial part of the game.  I feel like I definitely drove it a little bit better this week, so hopefully that can continue for the rest of the year. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT