MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2006
Chad Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RONALD TOWNSEND:  Good afternoon, or I should say, good evening.  We're delighted to have Chad Campbell here.  Thank you for coming in and we'll take some questions.
Q.  How did you possibly keep busy all day?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  You know what, I got out here about 10 o'clock and ate a little lunch out here, just kind of sat out here around the rest of the day, just in the locker room.
Q.  Never went back?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  No, I never went back.  I spent enough time at the house.
Q.  Do you walk out of here tonight happy about the start or upset about the finish?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  You know, honestly, even the two bogeys, I hit two good putts.  So you know, on 4, that's the place you've got to miss it.  You have to miss it in that left bunker.  I didn't hit that bad of a shot, a couple foot or two right and that shot is pretty good.  I feel like I hit a lot of good shots.  Only bad shot I hit was the second shot on 3.  Pretty bad mistake there.
Q.  How daunting of a task is it to play 32 holes tomorrow and get your first major?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  It's going to be tough but I don't think winning any major is easy.  It's going to be a little bit tougher, walking this course, 18 holes is quite a chore, so 32, we've got our work cut out for us.
Q.  On 3, was that a mistake with the club selection or the shot?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  I needed to hit it a little harder, or maybe caught it just a hair heavy.  I had the right club.
Q.  What was it?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  Pitching wedge.
Q.  Here you have to go to bed with the lead twice now, 1 1/2, 2 1/2 rounds, did it feel strange last night and is that a disadvantage?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  I don't think so.  It's where I want to be.  Obviously I would have liked to have had today go a little bit smoother with the weather, didn't quite cooperate with us but that's the way it goes.  Get a good night's rest tonight and be ready for tomorrow.
Q.  A lot of people are mentioning that you got the so called Big Five all right in the hunt there.  How much does it matter that they have the kind of major experience they have, and do you just    what's the nerve situation for you in terms of trying to get that first one?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  You know, today was fine.  It was fine all day.  I came out and was hitting really well, birdied the first two holes and didn't really feel like I played 3 or 4 that bad.  Just a little error on 3 and 4, unlucky on the putt.

Obviously those guys do have a lot more major experience, with the wins, but, you know, I'd like to start somewhere.
Q.  With the softened conditions, seemed like there were a few more birdies out there, is that going to change the way you try to play with the lead, as opposed to if conditions had not changed?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  You know, definitely you can make some birdies out there, with the greens being a little bit softer and a little bit slower with the water on them.  You can attack the holes a little bit easier.

I might have to change my game plan a little bit.  It's obviously going to play a little bit, not easier, it never plays easy.  A little bit easier than the last two days with the softening of the greens.
Q.  Was the light at all an issue on the 4th hole?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  No, it was fine.  It was getting a little bit dark.  We definitely wanted    both of us wanted to play the hole.  You could see fine.
Q.  You touched on it a little bit before, is tomorrow more physical than mental or is it equally both?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  I would say more mental than physical, actually.  You know, like I said, it's going to be tough walking around that many times, but when you're in contention, you don't really think about that.  It's not like we don't have to run.  (Laughter) That might be a different story.  But mentally, it's tough.  This is a very demanding golf course and on the greens you have to stay very patient and take your chances when you get them.
RONALD TOWNSEND:  Thank you all and thank you, Chad.  Good luck tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT