CAREERBUILDER CHALLENGE
January 20, 2017
Chad Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Second straight day, really solid out there.  Are you pleased?
CHAD CAMPBELL: Yeah, I am.  It's nice to finish the way I did, other than that one double.  But to be able to get two eagles there in the last four holes was a nice way to end the round.
Q. That's got to get you really psyched.
CHAD CAMPBELL: It was.  I was kind of making a bunch of pars there early, so definitely nice to finish that way heading into tomorrow.
Q. Talk about the weather conditions.  It was cold out there and then it got sunny and then cold again.
CHAD CAMPBELL: It was chilly, but I'll definitely take it over playing in the rain or what we got later this afternoon, supposedly, what's coming.  We have actually gotten lucky these last two days on the weather, I think.
Q. How difficult is that course you played this morning?
CHAD CAMPBELL: It's pretty tough.  You need to really get the ball in the fairway.  It's tough around the greens.  Some of those bunkers are pretty nasty.  So it's definitely a challenge.
Q. Tomorrow it's La Quinta for you.  A lot of birdies are out there.
CHAD CAMPBELL: Yeah, there is, if you're hitting good shots.  So, I love the course, we played it for years, so I feel pretty comfortable on it.
Q. Is that a pretty good draw, when you get La Quinta third?
CHAD CAMPBELL: Everybody's got to play them all, so I think it's going to be a little bit windier tomorrow, so we'll see how it works out.
Q. You haven't had really much wind at all.
CHAD CAMPBELL: No, not at all, really.  Especially with the weather they're forecasting us to be playing in.  So it's been great.
Q. How is the putting game?
CHAD CAMPBELL: It's all right.  I feel like I'm rolling it okay.  Probably putted a little bit yesterday today than I did today, but it feels good.
Q. These greens are pretty good.
CHAD CAMPBELL: They're perfect.  No excuses to miss putts.  You know they're absolutely perfect.  Especially La Quinta is probably the best we see all year and these two aren't far behind it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT