BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 17, 2006
Chad Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  We thank Chad Campbell for stopping in, 2006 Bob Hope Chrysler Classic.

Chad, a great start to your 2006 season with a runner up finish last week.  Talk a little about the great start.
CHAD CAMPBELL:  It was nice last week, I played three really good rounds the first three days, and I didn't play as well as I'd like on Sunday, but it was definitely a good start to the year.  I'm looking forward to this week, got a new course out here, and I think it's going to be good.
TODD BUDNICK:  Last season was unusual for you in the fact that you didn't win, which you started to get used to out here on TOUR, but you did finish inside the Top 25 for the third straight year.  A successful season for you, disappointed that you didn't win again, obviously; there's always disappointment not winning.
CHAD CAMPBELL:  Yeah, it was a decent year.  Obviously anytime you don't win, you're a little disappointed.  Definitely want to get to that Mercedes tournament every year, and unfortunately I didn't take care of that last week.  Hopefully it will come.

Overall, last year was an okay year.  I was able to kind of salvage the year with a couple good finishes at the end of the year.
TODD BUDNICK:  You spent a lot of time last year testing clubs, if I remember correctly and it looks like you've made a decision.
CHAD CAMPBELL:  Right, I did.  Last year I wasn't with a club company and this year I've signed with Nike.  It's been great.  I actually played their irons a lot of the time last year, and really liked them.  I think it's a great fit for me and it's just a great company.
TODD BUDNICK:  Talk about the things that you need to do this year to make it a very positive season for you.
CHAD CAMPBELL:  Just really need to keep working on the things I have been.  Putting is obviously a little more my weakest points, and I've been working really hard on it.  Seems to be paying off.  Obviously played off last week, hopefully keep doing the same things I'm doing and it will be a great year.
TODD BUDNICK:  Do you have    do you put the Ryder Cup in your mind at all this year?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  Absolutely.  That's probably the biggest goal I have is to make the Ryder Cup Team.  I was on the one two years ago, and it's just such    it's the ultimate in golf, playing for your country and playing with teammates and hopefully I can make it on the team and we can do a little bit better this year.
Q.  Last year we had a guy come in who had not won the year before, had just switched to Nike clubs and won the golf tournament.  Would you talk a little bit about the change and what was it that you were thinking in terms of, like you say, you played the irons most of last year, what was the thinking of going ahead and doing it full bore?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  Well, first part of your question, I hope that happens again.

You know, they are just a great company.  They build all their clubs in Fort Worth is which is an hour away from where I live which is really convenient for me.  Just the guys can the company are very knowledgeable about clubs and just everything.  They make it pretty easy for you.  They build what you want when you want it.

In my mind they are the best company.  Everything is just custom for you and they have I've been working a lot with a driver, and actually put the driver in play last week.  It's been great.
Q.  Can I get your thoughts on the new course, how it played?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  The new course, I think it's going to be a little bit tougher than the other courses.  I think the wind out here is going to blow a little bit more by the sound of what everybody is saying.  They said yesterday it was blowing pretty good out here.

I guess definitely, definitely going to be tough to shoot a low score ash here, a lot of water.  It's a pretty good driving course.  You have to get the ball in the fairway, get it around those hazards.  I think 3  or 4 under is a great score around here.
Q.  Did you play today?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  I did.
Q.  Can you talk about the greens?  Some of the players were saying they are very fast.
CHAD CAMPBELL:  They are really fast.  I think today was a little bit    might have been a little bit deceiving because they had all the pins in kind of weird spots on sides of slopes, so it made it seem like they were a little bit quicker than they were maybe.  They are fast, but the course is in excellent condition.
Q.  You've played in this tournament a few times now, but if you go play in another tournament, you're going to get four rounds at that golf course.  And here you're going to get one round at PGA West, one at Bermuda, La Quinta, and nobody has played this one yet in a tournament.  Did it take you a while to get comfortable with all of the golf courses here, or do you play so many in a year that you pretty much can get comfortable pretty fast?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  You know, playing so many a year, you learn how to get comfortable pretty quick.

This is the only one for me.  That's why I went out around it today.  Yesterday I went around La Quinta pretty quick.  I've played all those courses, so I kind of know how those work.

You know, we adjust pretty quick after seeing a course.  It is nice to see the pins in the actual places that they are going to be.  We can go out and shoot it where we think they are going to be, but when it's actually over this, it plays a little different.
Q.  So you don't try and get around or even drive around all four courses?  That's pretty tough.
CHAD CAMPBELL:  No.  Especially from flying in early yesterday morning, I was pretty beat.  You don't want to wear yourself out in the practice rounds.  I've already seen those other courses, so just go off last year's experience or two year's ago's experience.
Q.  Got off to a good start last week, everybody wants to get off to a good start just like everybody wants to win, but getting off to a good start now, does that change your thinking coming in here, you're a lot more excited about your prospects?
CHAD CAMPBELL:  It doesn't really change anything.  Definitely very excited about the year.  Felt like it was going to be a good year.  It was nice to get off to a good start.  It definitely helps your confidence, and looking for a good week here.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Chad.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT