TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 20, 2018
Riko Jeffers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's the mood been like after the game?
RIKO JEFFERS: Just getting back to work, trying to continue our season, one this week, and get that extra month for bowl.
Q. Is there a sense that you're playing for more than a bowl, maybe playing for the coaching staff?
RIKO JEFFERS: Yeah, we definitely, for sure, we love them.  They put so much into us, so we definitely want to show them that we care and that we will fight for them.
Q. As far as this Baylor team, what do they do good offensively, and what have you seen from Charlie Brewer, not necessarily as much as a passer but as a runner?
RIKO JEFFERS: He can be elusive at times and make plays with his feet.  I mean, he can throw, attack through the air, and then they can mix a good run game with it, too.  It's going to be a good challenge for us this week.
Q. Can you speak to Jalen Hurd, as well, their wide receiver/running back/everything guy?
RIKO JEFFERS: Yes, sir.  He's very talented, and we've seen some of the stuff he does on film, so we're going to have to try to contain their big plays and stop what they're doing.
Q. When this team late in games, when you guys have to get that stop, it seems like recently it's just you guys have just been just short of getting those wins.  What does it take late in games that's different than throughout a game to get those stops and get that win for the team?
RIKO JEFFERS: I mean, we just have to continue to fight as a team and execute our job specifically, and hopefully that will get us the win that we need.
Q. Being in a must-win pressure-packed situation this year, similar to last year, do you learn anything from last year, take away anything on how to kind of handle that pressure that you can establish this year?
RIKO JEFFERS: We just take it week by week.  I mean, we know it's win or go home, and we're going to leave it all out there for our brothers, our seniors and our coaches.
Q. How much has it helped you over this past month that you have -- all the playing time that you have gotten because for much of the last year people asked when you were going to get to play more, and obviously you had a couple guys in front of you, then you're pressed into service when Jordan got ejected and pressed into service immediately afterward when Dakota got hurt.  How much do you feel like you've progressed the last month with the reps that you've gotten?
RIKO JEFFERS: I feel like I've progressed a good amount throughout the year, plus having Jordan and Dakota be able to mentor me and lead me on the right path, so I think I've made steps, but there's still room for improvement.
Q. I'd asked Coach Kingsbury about how sometimes fans get a little too carried away on social media after the games, after a big loss like last weekend, going after players directly rather than the coaches or something else.  And he had talked a little bit about training they do with y'all.  How do you handle that?  Do you just tune it out?  Do you steer clear of social media?
RIKO JEFFERS: Just tune it out.  I mean, it's really about us, and we're just fighting as a team, as a family, and we know that we're trying to do what's best for us and have each other's back and bring success to our program.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT