TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 8, 2018
Riko Jeffers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Texas Tech - 77, Lamar - 0.
Q. How important was it for you guys to get that shutout?
RIKO JEFFERS: It was very important to come back from last week and get back in practice and get back focused and make sure we do our jobs and show that our defense has changed and things have changed.
Q. Did you guys talk about that on the sideline because the other guys were going in, and to preserve that?
RIKO JEFFERS: No, we just kept it going.  It's just the game; we keep every play, work hard every play, try and make stops, turnovers, everything like that.
Q. To get those turnovers rolling in this game, what does that do for the defense?
RIKO JEFFERS: I mean, for the defense it's exciting, and it also puts the ball back in the offense's hands so we can score more points, more opportunities to win.
Q. Is that something you guys look for, or when it comes --
RIKO JEFFERS: No, we preach that in practice every day.  We always work the ball.  That's our mentality, try to get the ball back so we can get the offense back on the field so they can score.
Q. You guys shut them out obviously the whole game.  The first half they didn't get past the 40-yard line, but you didn't get a turnover either, so do you look at that as a success or failure?
RIKO JEFFERS: I mean, as long as they don't score, it's a success for us, honestly.
Q. I noticed a couple times y'all made some pretty decent stops, there were some penalties that brought it back, and you personally would get frustrated and throw your towel or whatever.  How do those penalties affect you on the field?  Does it increase your focus?
RIKO JEFFERS: Well, personally I don't recall getting frustrated or anything, but I mean, it does set us back a little bit, but I mean, we've got to keep it moving forward and doing what we do.
Q. How did the Ole Miss game affect y'all defensively?
RIKO JEFFERS: I mean, we lost a few players in the game early, so I mean, it kind of hurt.  But I mean, it was a wake-up call, so now it's time to get back on our grind and get back to work.
Q. With this shutout in this game, where is the defense to go from here?  You've always going to keep moving forward.  Where is the defense to go from here?
RIKO JEFFERS: I mean, next week we're going to try to do the same thing.  That's what we preach, stopping them from scoring the ball, giving the ball back to the offense so they can get more points on the board.
Q. Just to follow up on that earlier question, when you said the Ole Miss game was a wake-up call.  What were some of the things, maybe some areas that you guys felt better about where your game was at going into that game, that you had some stuff exposed that you wanted to make a point of improving?
RIKO JEFFERS: I mean, execution.  All 11 of us have to execute our jobs, and so that was really the big thing.  Last week we didn't execute that much, and this week we came back and we did what we were supposed to do.
Q. What was mentioned by Coach Kingsbury in the locker room after the game?
RIKO JEFFERS: Today?  We've got to get ready for Houston.  I mean, we're up high right now because we just got a good dub.  Excuse me for that.  But now it's time to get back to practice, work on the next week, try to beat Houston.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT