BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 27, 2014
Andreas Harto
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I don't know if this is the appropriate way to start, but you've earned some money.   
ANDREAS HARTO:   I have.   It's a first.   It's been a while since that's happened.   It's not even the money part.   That's the least of it all.   It's just the fact that I'm playing decent golf again.   I can see a score and I can manage to make some birdies and that's something I haven't been able to do in a while so I'm very happy.  
   
 Q.   The money is incidental, and it is a good round of golf once again; you're right up there.   
ANDREAS HARTO:   As I think I said yesterday, I'm just happy that I'm playing better.   I mean, the fact that I'm up there again, that's the least of it.   It just proves to myself that I can compete with these guys, which is very good for my confidence and the rest of my season and I guess career.   
   
 Q.   We all know this game, sometimes it doesn't work from day‑to‑day.   So even though we were celebrating yesterday, this is quite an achievement to put two together.  
ANDREAS HARTO:   Especially the way I've been playing lately.   I'm Prairie Dunes of myself the way I've handled myself the last couple of days.   I was extremely nervous when I saw myself on top of the leaderboard but today that changed a little bit.   I didn't feel any pressure.   I just kept playing the way I've been playing all along.   It's been good.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel nicely in control now?   
ANDREAS HARTO:   It's tough to say.   It's golf and it's a tough game and obviously I've been struggling the whole year.   It's tough to say that I'm feeling in control but I'm feeling a lot more in control than I have been lately which is a nice feeling.  
   
 Q.   And into the weekend?   
ANDREAS HARTO:   That's something new.   I have no expectations.   I came here just to try to find my game again and that's worked out pretty well, and we'll see what it brings.   Who knows, if I can keep on doing what I've been doing, I'll be all right.   But if not, I'll still be a happy guy after the week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT