XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
August 3, 1996
Fernando Meligeni
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Can you just talk a little bit about the fluctuations in the match. It seemed to go to his side and then yours. 
 
 FERNANDO MELIGENI: I don't know why. But I think I played -- the first set was a normal match, because we make ourselves like 1-All, 2-All, and fortunately for me I make a few good returns and after I won the first set, I think the first game was so important for me. I think he started to play a little harder and I didn't play too much in the first set, because he make a lot of mistakes. I serve well. And he serve and volley every time. In the second set, the first game he stayed back and he tried to hit harder and I think I stopped my legs a little bit and said, what's happening right now? And I lost my serve. I give a little confidence, too much confidence for him. And then you never know, you have to play every point. I think the first set was -- I have my chance and, wow, you never know. You lost some points and you can't do it.  
 
Q. You had a lob that was called out, TV seemed to show it was in. I think you could have broken him on that point. Do you remember that at all? 
 
 FERNANDO MELIGENI: I remember the ball, but I don't know if it's good or not. It's one ball in the match, and I think the match is not in this ball. The problem wasn't this ball, I think it started off the second set.  
 
Q. How much intensity did you feel throughout the match, given that this time around only one of you could come away with a medal? 
 
 FERNANDO MELIGENI: I feel different, I think. But I think he played different. He play a little harder. I play a little tighter -- I don't know the name, but it's normal. I think it's impossible to play like, okay, it's one more match in my life. It's a different match. I don't play everything I can or the same way I play against Philippoussis or whoever. But it's normal. I try harder; try the best I can.  
 
Q. How difficult of a player is he? Because he's got such an unusual style compared to most other players, he serves and volleys, he doesn't seem to get any rhythm? 
 
 FERNANDO MELIGENI: It's different, because you never know what he's doing the next point, because sometimes he hit the return like McEnroe, sometimes he just put the ball away. Sometimes he play harder. Sometimes he put the ball in the middle of the court and go to the net. I think it's not easy to play against him. But you have to win, you have to play.  
 
End of FastScript... 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT