JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2012
Tommy Biershenk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   66, 66.   Those are always nice numbers. 
TOMMY BIERSHENK:   Yeah, I will tell you, I'm hitting it just a little bit better this week and my putting is around.   What saved me the last couple days was when I missed the greens I was able to get up and down and save the pars and keep the momentum going.
Putter is rolling good.   Just need to give myself opportunities and I'll be there.

Q.   You hit 14 greens in the second round; made eight birdies.   Pretty good conversion rate. 
TOMMY BIERSHENK:   It's good that you look into my stats because I have no idea.   Yeah, like I said I'm hitting it a little bit better this week. 
All the way up to this week it's been a struggle so far this year.   I'm being patient with myself and looking forward to closing out with two good rounds this weekend.
I'm playing better golf and certainly having more fun out here.

Q.   Is it hard to be tiebreak patient out here when you've struggled a little bit over the first few months of TOUR play?
TOMMY BIERSHENK:   A little bit.   A little bit.   You have to reminded yourself each week is an opportunity to change your life.   I knew coming into this week I'd been struggling.   Just got to keep my head held high and stay confident.   I knew my game was going to come around eventually. 
I'm start to go feel the old Tommy.   I'm starting to hit shots where I'm lining up at and certainly making the putts I need to make.   Roundabout, my game is getting better and I'm staying patient. 
Yesterday was a solid day.   Saved myself after missing some greens, good pars, kept the momentum going.   Today, came out and carried confidence over from yesterday.   I was able to make I think six birdies on the front‑‑ accompanied with two bogey.
Feel pretty good about my game.   It's a good feeling to finally put myself in contention instead of playing bad.   I've missed like five straight cuts, so it's frustrating.   Certainly a whole more fun to be playing good. 

Q.   What's changed for you this week?
TOMMY BIERSHENK:   Nothing.   Maybe my attitude a little bit.   I told myself, Let's go out and have a little bit more fun.   Certainly hitting it a little bit better and giving myself more opportunities and putting good.   Getting it up and down when I miss the greens. 
The golf course is not that hard.   Hit the fairways and greens, there's a lot of birdies out there.
My game is just better this week.   That's what the difference is, as opposed to weeks leading up into here I was thinking too much and struggling a little bit. 
I've had fun the last few days.   I'm going into the weekend with the same mindset.   Going out to have a good time, have fun, and hit golf shots. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT