NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLAMES v LIGHTNING
June 4, 2004
Robin Regehr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Darryl was saying again that except for maybe after Game 4 where you guys maybe were a little bit frustrated that you played pretty well, you didn't get the result that you wanted or deserved.  He said other than that, you guys have been even-keeled; no highs, no lows.  He's sort of counting on that happening again. 
 ROBYN REGEHR: I don't see any reason why that won't happen again.  We have a group that has been able to deal with quite a few things that have happened over the course of the regular season and now the post-season and I don't see any reason why that we shouldn't be able to approach this game in a similar fashion. 
 Q.  Jarome is amazing everyone off the ice.  You guys see it time and time again.  Does the guy still do stuff that's still jaw-dropping from a team's standpoint? 
 ROBYN REGEHR: He's a big-game player and I think he's finally gotten a chance to prove that over the last couple of years, starting with the Olympics and continuing that until now.  It just seems like the bigger the game for our team, the bigger the effort from him and he's a key factor in us being in this position. 
 Q.  Does he still surprise you though from time to time; the two-minute shift like he had the other night? 
 ROBYN REGEHR: You know what gave the guys a little bit of a chuckle, I guess it would have been nice if it would have worked, a play where he came down the left side and took the puck and he flipped it into the air when he came inside and then shot it.  That was, you know, it just goes to show you the things that he can do and I think the amazing thing about him is that he plays any style.  You try to be physical against him and you see what he can do, guys like Hatcher, you know, with him fighting (inaudible) can't shut him down.  Jarome can play any type of game.  I think that's what makes him such a great player. 
 Q.  When Darryl came into the room with 28 games left in the season and said, hey, guys here's how we're going to approach these Final 28 games.  We're going to break it off like we're in the Playoffs.  They are all 7-game series.  What went through your mind? 
 ROBYN REGEHR: Win the first series.  Make sure we win the first series and after we did that, we concentrated on the second series. 
 Q.  Was it that simple?  For a lot of professional athletes something like that might be a good idea but it's tough to sell, it's tough to get guys to buy in; why did you guys buy in so readily? 
 ROBYN REGEHR: We bought in because we knew that's what we had to do, to just make it into the Playoffs and once we made it into the Playoffs we knew that's what we had to do to continue and to be successful.  So it is very simple. 
 Q.  What about the seven-game mentality from what I understand even if the series had been won you had to approach Game 7 like a Game 7?  How hard is that to do, to represent placate that kind of situation? 
 ROBYN REGEHR: I don't think it's hard because we all knew the importance of all of those games and all of those series that continued on up 'til the post-season started and I think that helped us a lot for the start of the post-season. 
 Q.  Was the whole point to kind of have some short-term goals to get into the Playoffs or was that in the back of your mind that once we get into the Playoffs now we will know what to do? 
 ROBYN REGEHR: No.  I think the short-term goal was the point  -- I don't know.  You will have to ask Darryl, I don't know. 
 Q.  What has the last two months meant to you as a player, as a person? 
 ROBYN REGEHR: What has it meant? 
 Q.  Yes? 
 ROBYN REGEHR: Buying lots of tickets for lots of family and friends who want to come and watch hockey. 
 But, no, it's been very exciting as a player because this has been my fifth year and my first taste of post-season experience in the National Hockey League and it is very exciting.  I realize how hard you have to work to even make it into the Playoffs and I think everyone on this team, myself included, once we made it in the Playoffs, we wanted to make the best of that situation because we all felt the same way, that we worked extremely hard to get into the position we are in. 
 Q.  How do you keep yourself from getting too excited about the fact that one win gets you the Cup? 
 ROBYN REGEHR: Well, I think excitement is a good thing to have.  You just have to make sure that you harness it and use it in the right way.  I don't think there's any negative to that at all. 
 Q.  Question of whether Kerry Fraser will? 
 ROBYN REGEHR: I am not going to talk about that. 
 Q.  Being at the end of the line, you guys have been through so much (inaudible) 
?  ROBYN REGEHR: It feels the same.  We're still involved in a playoff series, one that we have to win.  And you know, it's just a matter of it  -- we are closer to our ultimate goal now than when we first started. 
 Q.  You guys have had a lot of guys along the way that maybe aren't with the team anymore contributing.  Jamie McLennan is one that comes to mind.  Talk about his contribution to this team.  I understand he's not here anymore but a lot of players still talk to him? 
 ROBYN REGEHR: A lot of us still do, myself included.  Jamie was a really great teammate to have.  It was very difficult for us to lose him.  But he really  -- I think he really helped our group out the time that he was here and he still does in a supporting role, again, with talking to players.  And I know that he's worried about being a little bit of a distraction, that's why he hasn't been physically here, a lot of the Playoffs, but again, you know, still a very good teammate and extremely supportive guy. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT