NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 27, 1998
Scott Parker
Robin Regehr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SCOTT PARKER:  Once we are on the ice it is our job and we try to do it the best we can, but our fans react just as civil as anyone else does, so putting our jobs aside of the ice, but when you are on the ice you are out there to win.


Q.  First round -- (INAUDIBLE).

ROBIN REGEHR:  No, I don't think so.  Like, you aren't surprised to see some guys selected that weren't ahead of you on the CSB list, but all along people have been saying those lists don't mean that much.  It is the teams themselves that are interested in certain players.  So you know, I wasn't really get concerned.  I knew there was some great teams left and I'm just very honored to go to Colorado.


Q.  (INAUDIBLE).

SCOTT PARKER:  Well, I've been in the draft before and you can never be prepared what happens because pretty much its up in the air so you can basically play it by ear.


Q.  (INAUDIBLE).

SCOTT PARKER:  Like you said, it is really up to the agents to let us play, but hopefully we can work something out soon.


Q.  Did you find out anything about Colorado and what you could bring?

ROBIN REGEHR:  Well, I found out a little bit about Colorado with having Randy on Calgary with me.  He was a former draft pick of Colorado and then was traded, so he told me a little bit about the organization and it has all been good.  Other than for the need of Colorado, I met with ^ Dave Draper and a few of the other Colorado personnel and they said they were looking for some size, toughness and defensemen, so I'm just hoping I can fill that role.

SCOTT PARKER:  The same with me.  I find I can bring some physical presence.  Just remember when you need something done, I'm a real player.  I can play.  If the other team needs me, if they want me to play fourth line, I'll play where they want me to play.  I'm not picky.  I just want to play hockey.


Q.  (INAUDIBLE.)

SCOTT PARKER:  I like to move on.  I think I've done pretty much all I can do in the WHL.  If you don't move up, I guess it could work against you.  I'm just hoping to get something done in Colorado and move on.


Q.  (INAUDIBLE).

SCOTT PARKER:  I going to do whatever I have to do  to play in the WHL, and I'm not going to go crazy at first, but I'm going to have my presence felt eventually.  And I know everybody on the team is going to back me up 100 percent, too, so we will just see what happens.


Q.  (INAUDIBLE).

SCOTT PARKER:  Yes, it has kind of grown on me.

ROBIN REGEHR:  And he's pretty good at it, too.


Q.  Robin, are you prepared for the series or how did it compare to being harder or?

ROBIN REGEHR:   When I was younger that's how I got to be born in Brazil and I rode in places like Indonesia.


Q.  Did you expect to have some bouts?

SCOTT PARKER:  I guess whatever happens, happens. You can't foresee what is going to happen.  We are just going to play our hardest and see what happens.

ROBIN REGEHR:  You know, I think both Scott and myself are very intense and competitive, and, like you said before, on the ice, you know, we are competitive and if it happens to come down to that we will have to do it.  But like Scott said, it is hard to put something aside right now and say we are going to go out in training camp.  He has a role to fill and I think I have a role to fill.  You know, we'll see what happens


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT