THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 5, 2019
Mina Harigae
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 9-under for the day; 14-under for the round.  When did you realize this was going to be a hot round for you?
MINA HARIGAE: I think when I holed out for eagle on No. 9.  I was playing well until then, but after holing out that just really got me going.
Q. What was the strategy there on that eagle?
MINA HARIGAE: My caddie told me to aim right at it and that's what I did.  (Laughter.)
Q. Feels like all around everything was kind of working for you.  What do you think really shined today in your performance?
MINA HARIGAE: You know, honestly, I think it's a little bit of everything.  Obviously hitting the fairway, every fairway, helps a lot.  Iron were good.  Wedges were really good.  Made a couple good putts, like 15 footers, but also had a couple tap-ins.
Q. You had some help there also this week.  What was it like to have your coach here and work with you through your game?
MINA HARIGAE: Oh, it helped me a lot.  From a confidence standpoint now I understand what I'm doing over the ball.  Just helped a lot.
Q. When you play do you watch the leaderboard, or when did you notice that you were on top of the leaderboard?
MINA HARIGAE: I don't watch the leaderboard, but if I'm looking straight at it from a putt I could catch a glimpse.  Actually I was surprised.
Q. What was your reaction?
MINA HARIGAE: I thought it wasn't updating correctly because I thought scores were going to be really low again.  I know it's early, but I think when I saw it on 15 I was kind of surprised.
Q. You mentioned the scores will be lower.  You may not be at the top of the leaderboard by the end of the day.  How comforting is it to be there now and knowing you've got the weekend and you're in good position?
MINA HARIGAE: Feels great.  I feel really solid about my game and I have a lot of time to rest for tomorrow.
Q. I understand your caddie, you were telling me your caddie is also your fiance.
MINA HARIGAE: Yes.
Q. How does that relationship work out on the course and how reassuring is it to have him on the bag for you?
MINA HARIGAE: I really like him on the bag for me because he knows my game like the back of his hand and he knows the right things to say.  He knows when it's time for me to go after it or not.  I really like it.
Q. You left Duke early, ten years ago.
MINA HARIGAE: Wow, that is a long time ago.
Q. Does it feel like that long?
MINA HARIGAE: No, it doesn't feel that long ago.  When people -- I mean, it is ten years ago, so, yeah.
Q. In those ten years have you performed the way you hoped you would or has it been a bit of a struggle?
MINA HARIGAE: It's been up and down.  I had decent like middle years and then a couple not-so-good years.  Now I feel really comfortable, just like extra comfortable being out here on tour, now that I know how to manage my time, manage myself.  You know these courses like really well now because you keep coming back to them.
Just a great group of people, too, out here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT