CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
September 1, 2019
Brittany Altomare
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  27 consecutive cuts dating back to this tournament last year. What have you developed in your game over that time?  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: I think I've just been really consistent, which I think has been the key. Yeah, I just think I've been very consistent. I've hit the ball consistently well. I've putted well. I think that's helped.   
 Q.  What have you developed in terms of that ball-striking and putting over that time frame? Have you worked with any coaches or made any adjustments?  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Yeah, I'm trying to think. Well, I've been working go with Justin Sheehan for about five years now and Mark Sweeney on my putting since my junior year of college, so probably seven or eight years. I just think -- I don't really know. It's nothing, like, specific.   
I think at beginning of the year, when I was just making cuts, I was a little stressed out and I think they both were just like, let's just calm down and not like stress over it. Not like go beat balls and stuff. Just kind of like relax.   
I took a few days off after the U.S. Open before Grand Rapids and like just didn't even think about golf. Got there on Monday and I started playing really well.   
 Q.  When over the stretch did you start thinking about the Solheim Cup and making the team?  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: I've been thinking about it all year. Yeah, I think that's part of the reason why I was stressing a little but I just -- they were like, just play good golf and it takes care of itself. That's what I was able to do.   
 Q.  How long has that been a goal for you to make the Solheim Cup team?  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Ever since I was a little kid. I was very excited.   
 Q.  Obviously you've played really well this week. What are you hoping to take away from your play this week heading into the Solheim Cup in a couple weeks?  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Just continuing to do the same thing. I just think I'm hitting it well and putting it well and I think those are two good things for when you play team golf, especially like alternate-shot, hitting it well and making some putts. I'm just hoping to take that into next week.   
 Q.  Have you had any conversations with Juli about potential partnerships, or do you have anyone in mind you would like to play with?  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: No, nothing really specific. I'm sure she's thinking about it, since there's a lot of us rookies on the team. I don't know, I think everyone gets along pretty well and I think I could play with almost anybody. Whoever she puts me with, I'll be happy to play with.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT