CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 31, 2019
Brittany Altomare
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 14-under for the tournament, 4-under today, and 2-under over the final three. What clicked into gear on 16?
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Well, I hit two very good shots in there, and then the putts just fell, which was really nice. I hit it right where I wanted to at the speed I wanted to and they went in, so it was great.
Q. You had one birdie over 54 holes. What's been the key to staying so consistent all tournament long?
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Yesterday I think I hit all 18 greens, which really helped. Today I didn't hit it as good, but I just feel like I am hitting it really well and I'm giving -- I'm just staying out of trouble, which is really nice.
Q. What kind of confidence does it give you when you're striking the ball so well?
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: A lot, yeah, and then I'm making putts on top of that, which really helps. These greens are so fast and they are so nice. You just hit it on line, and if you hit it right, it should go in.
Q. This isn't the first time you've found success in the Cambia Portland Classic. You finished tied for third in 2017. What about the course let's you play so well and showcase your game?
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: I just love it. Like I said, you have to hit good golf shots, and the greens are perfect. I feel like I'm a decent putter, so I feel like I should putt pretty well here.
Q. What are you most looking forward to, getting ready for Solheim?
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Just playing team golf. It was fun at the Dow, and I loved alternate-shot. So I hope I get to play that in two weeks, and I just -- I love being part of a team. So I think it's going to be very exciting.
Q. We don't get a lot of team golf. You played on Junior Solheim?
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Junior Ryder Cup.
Q. So what are you -- have you asked people what the Solheim Cup experience is going to be like, or what's your recon kind of been?
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Yeah, I've been asking around. The older players have definitely been very helpful. But I feel like, you know, everybody says the first tee, you can't really describe how you're feeling.
So I'm pretty excited to have that experience on the first tee, but I'm also excited to be a part of a team. I love being -- playing at Virginia and being part of a team there and the Junior Ryder Cup.
Like you said, we don't get it in golf, at all, and getting to know these girls on a different level I think going to be a lot of fun.
Q. There's got to be something so special about all being together.
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Right.
Q. You become friends on a different level.
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Exactly.
Q. Are you going to have family coming over?
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Yeah, my dad's coming, my fiancée and my two coaches. So it should be a good time.
Q. Are you going to get to stay and do any vacation or anything, or just mainly focusing on golf right now?
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Just golf. I feel like I haven't really been home that much, so I'm going to go home after this and after Solheim I'll be home, too.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT