CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 23, 2019
Brittany Altomare
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great round today you had going. First talk about the two eagles you had.  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Yeah.   
 Q.  Have you ever had two eagles like this in a round before?  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: No, never. Yeah, they just seemed to come out of nowhere and happened twice, so it was fun.   
 Q.  The first one, how long was that shot from the fairway? I think that was No. 12.  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Yeah, I think we had 87. I told my caddie I didn't want to know any of the numbers. I wanted to know what it was to the 60 front, and we got there.   
I just liked that number and I have a good club for that, and obviously it worked out.   
 Q.  You looked like you didn't know it went in at first. Did you?  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Well, you can't really see the green from where we are because we're down below. When they cheered, made it obvious.   
 Q.  And then on 14 you're in the sand trap. Were you just thinking, Just try to get up and down, get it close, and then it rolls in for you?  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Yeah, me and my coach have worked on a shot with like my gap wedge out of the sand so it like chunks and kind of runs. So that was my first hole with that type of shot, so I'm sure he'll be happy.   
 Q.  What happened on 17 that led to the double bogey?  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Yeah, I hit it the way I wanted to and I just wasn't enough, I guess. I mean, if it landed like a yard more I think it would've been perfect.   
Then I should've went with my instincts. Should have taken a drop there. My caddie thought I could hit it. I think I should have gone with my instincts and had a better lie. At least I would've guaranteed a bogey.   
 Q.  You finish a round like this 6-under, 7-under overall, most players would be very happy with that. Does the double bogey kind of just make you step back and say, Man, it could have been so much better, or are you happy overall?  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: I'm happy. It's golf. That's a what happens. I put myself in a good position for the weekend, and that's really all I care about.   
 Q.  They were talking at Golf Channel about the Solheim Cup. You haven't qualified yet, I don't think automatically, have you? Have you? I'm not sure.  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: No.   
 Q.  So this is a good tournament for you. On the cusp; No.8.  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Yeah, I mean, honestly, I haven't had a very good record in Canada. I think I'm like one for four in making cuts. I was just trying to play well, to be honest.   
I think I do my best when I just think of one shot at a time. That's what I've been really trying to do the last two days, and I think I've done that will are well.   
Hopefully I can continue to do that through the weekend.   
 Q.  What would it mean for to you qualify for the Solheim Cup after a result like this?  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Yeah, it would be everything I've dreamed of. I was fortunate enough to play on the Junior Solheim Cup team when was in high school and that was incredible. I can't even imagine what it would be like as a professional.   
 Q.  What do you need to do to keep the momentum going tomorrow and the next round?  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: I think just keep making some putts. I think I hit some really good shots today, so I'll keep doing that.   
 Q.  How were the conditions for you? Saw it was pretty windy early on. Did that affect anything?  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Yeah, it got windy like right in the middle of our round there. That just means you have to hit your targets I think when the wind is up and make confident swings.   
 Q.  So when you make the cut, you're going through to the weekend, do you start thinking about scoring, what you have to get to to put yourself in a position to win, and what do you think that number might be having played two rounds here?  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: I don't know. Like I said before, I think I just do my best and I think of one shot at a time. I think I make a lot birdies that way and eliminate some mistakes when I do that.   
I think if I can just keep that mindset through the weekend, I think I can give myself a good chance.   
 Q.  What is your overall assessment of the golf course, and how do you think that impacts the weekend?  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: I think it's in really good shape. The rough is getting thicker I think, which makes you have to drive the ball really well, which I think I did today.   
And then if you can get some scoring clubs in your hand I think you can score out here. But if you're not driving the ball well, the I think you can make some big numbers.   
 Q.  You played with the No. 1 player in the world, Jin Young Ko. Have you played with her before?  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Yeah.   
 Q.  What do you think of her game? Seems pretty solid; doesn't make too many mistakes.  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: You nailed it. She hits it and does everything really well. That's what I think she does great, is eliminates mistakes, which is why she's world No. 1.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT