SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 25, 2017
Brittany Altomare
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Is this your first time playing over here?
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Yes.
Q. What's the takeaway, other than hot?
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: The golf course is awesome.  I really like it.  I played nine yesterday, so hopefully get to see the other nine today in the Pro-Am.
Food is really good here.  People are friendly.
Q. So I know you've played over here in Asia before, right?
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Last year I only got into Beijing and Blue Bay.
Q. Since that, it's been a big, whirlwind year for you, especially the last month.  How are you handling all the changes that have been happening for you?
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: I think okay.  It's just exciting.  I'm having fun out here.  I feel very comfortable.  I'm just enjoying it.
Q. Your second full year on Tour?
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: My first full year last year.  I had conditional.  I was in Bahamas and waited for the reshuffle, so I played everything from Texas on.
Q. What's been the biggest learning curve for you, starting at conditional, and you working your way up.  You're working your way up towards the top of the Money List and now working your way up to one of the biggest names.
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: I think for me it was getting comfortable, time management.  Like I finally found a caddie this year that I felt like we were on the same team, and that helped a lot.  Like I realized having someone out there that you feel that's on your team is going to help you, makes a huge difference, especially when you get in stressful situations.
Q. Dewi is not on the bag now; is that just this tournament, or is that still to be determined?
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Not sure.  She went back to school, so she's doing a nine-month program for sports massage therapy.  I don't think what she will do after that; if she'll try to find a job.  Maybe she will come back out and caddie for me.  I would love that.  She is doing something she's always wanted to do, so I'm happy for her.
Q. And she helped you do what you've always been wanting to do?
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Yeah.
Q. How do you deal with this heat and humidity?
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Just drink a lot of water.  Might use the umbrella for some shade.  Just stay hydrated I think is the biggest thing.
Q. What's what's left on your schedule?
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Japan and CME.
Q. What has this whole last month been like for you since Evian, and now into Asia?  Did we ever think you and I, we would be in this part of the world at this time of our lives?  What's it been like?
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Just a lot of fun, and it's just exciting.  I'm just trying to have fun with it and just keep playing well.  I've always wanted to play out here ever since I was little.  It's been a dream of mine.  I always said, like I don't want to just play out here.  I want to compete and hopefully win.  I feel like I'm heading that way and it's just exciting.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT