THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2017
Brittany Altomare
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What did you expect starting today?  Did you at all expect to be in a playoff?  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: No, I just wanted to try and hit fairways and greens today and make some birdies.  I finished my round off really well yesterday.  I think I had like five birdies maybe coming in or something.  So I just kind of tried to keep that momentum, and I started hitting the ball really well today, and I gave myself a bunch of chances and I just made some putts.   
 Q.  Did you realize at some point in the round that you would be in contention, getting close?  Were you looking at leaderboards?  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: I was, and I saw I was getting close.  But I saw Anna at 10-under and then on 18, I didn't even look.  So I really didn't know that that putt was to keep tied for first.  I thought it was just for second.  But I was still super nervous over the putt.  But it was a cool experience.   
 Q.  So what made you decide to lay-up on 18 before the playoff?  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: It was just a really long carry for me.  It was like 188 to the front, and when we were hitting, it got colder and the wind started blowing into.  To me it just seemed a little stupid to try and go for it.   
I've been hitting my wedges really good all week, and I just thought if I could wedge one in, I would have a better chance at making par than trying to go for it and hit it in the water.   
 Q.  How crazy was the weather during the playoff itself?  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Crazy.  There's no other word to describe it.  It was a little -- it was really crazy, yeah.   
 Q.  You had a little bit of time to prepare for the playoff but not much.  Just what was going through your mind once you realized you were in a playoff?  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: Yeah, I was just trying to stay relaxed but focused at the same time.  We went up to the locker room and kind of just hung out and talked for a little bit and tried to stay warm, because it was getting colder, and then just hit some putts and tried to stay relaxed.   
 Q.  How valuable is this experience for you going forward?  
BRITTANY ALTOMARE: It's really big.  I mean, I had a good week in Portland, and I felt good that tournament and I felt like I could now start getting some good finishes.   
It's all just about finishing up your rounds or tournaments and I feel I'm starting to do that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT