THE LPGA DRIVE ON CHAMPIONSHIP
October 23, 2020
Brittany Altomare
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Brittany, what great second round.  May I ask how do you feel now that you got two rounds under your belt?
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   Pretty good.  I hit the ball really well today and didn't make many mistakes.  When I did I got up and down and my putting felt good.
 Q. Was there any part of your day where you felt the momentum kick in?  Was there any particular birdie maybe?
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   No.  I just kind of felt pretty steady all day.  Like I said, I hit it really solid.  I think on 9 when I made par out of the bunker, the fairway, I think that's kind of when I kind of felt some momentum going, because that was pretty big.
 Q. Can you talk to us about whole No. 2 where you had an eagle yesterday but a birdie today.
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   Yeah.
 Q. Is there something about hole No. 2 where it just really excites you?
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   I don't know.  Yesterday I was kind of aiming more left than I was on my second shot and pushed my 3-wood a little bit and ended up perfect to like six feet below the hole.  I mean, it was a lucky and good shot all at the same time.
 Q. Is that your favorite hole maybe?
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   I guess right now it is, yeah.
 Q. We had a week off last week.  Did you work on any part of your game?  Did you relax?
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   I worked pretty hard on my game last week because I wasn't really happy with it after the two-week stretch that we had, and I did a lot of chipping and putting and just wedges, short game stuff.
 Q. This tournament came together so quickly.  How is it playing at this beautiful course this week?
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   It's amazing.  This place is beautiful, especially the back nine where you see the lake every hole.  Just doesn't get any better than that.
 And the course is in incredible condition.  So, yeah.
 Q. And when is the last time you were in Georgia?  Do you remember being in Georgia?
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   Probably when I was in college.  We played University of Georgia's course like every year, and I really like that golf course.  I like Georgia.  The fall weather, it's better that hot and humid in Florida.
 Q. You definitely got really nice weather.
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   Yes.
 Q. Despite the possibility of rain.  You closed with three birdies in your last four holes there.  What did you say to yourself or what was going right for you in the last couple holes to be able to finish out strong?
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   I was hitting it really well and I was giving myself a lot of chances, so I knew if I kept doing that eventually they would fall.  They did on the last few, so it was nice.
 Q. You also had your Solheim Cup captain up in there with you in the grouping, Juli Inkster.  What was that like for you?
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   Yeah, it was great.  I loved playing for Juli last year.  It was just -- I don't think I've played with her in a tournament round so it was fun to be with her and talk.  I mean, she's great, so...
 Q. On top of that, Pat Hurst is here this week.  Also was able to follow your group because Juli is along with her.  Was that cool?  Did you notice that at all?  Do you think she's scouting?
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   I'm sure she is.  They're both great.  Pat was a pod captain last year too so I got to know her pretty well.  Yeah, they're both just great.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT