SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
October 3, 2020
Brittany Altomare
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. 4-under on moving day has to have you pretty happy.
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   Yeah, I made a lot of birdies and I had some mistakes here and there, could have played the par-5s better, but still made a lot of birdies, which I'm excited about.
 Q. I know the par-5s and the par-3s, once you flip nines the par-5s become maybe not as important with as many par-3s as there are on the back.
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   Right.
 Q. Is that going to be a big thing for you maybe tomorrow is to focus on the par-5s?
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   Probably, but knock on wood I've been playing the par-3s pretty well, so hopefully just continue that and hopefully have some more birdie opportunities on the par-5.
 Just eliminate some mistakes and just go low I think, yeah.
 Q. Is it going to take an effort like today and even then some tomorrow to continue to make a run up the leaderboard and maybe give it o a chance?
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   I think so.  I mean, I haven't seen it yet because there are no scoreboards out there.  I would think you have to shoot pretty low tomorrow to have a chance.
 Q. How were the conditions today compared to the first two days?
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   I thought they were pretty good. I think these greens are rolling nice in the morning, and I think it's an advantage when you can get out.  I think we were like the third group, so I think that was an advantage, and I tried to take advantage of that.
 Q. How much about tomorrow is -- obviously you're going to give it your all tomorrow, but how much of it too is finding a groove for next week and making sure you keep your game in a good spot heading into a major?
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   Yeah, I mean, just looking to just feel good going into next week.  I've made a lot of birdies the first day and today, and I think that's always a good sign.  Majors play hard and you know you're going to make bogeys, so as long as you're making birdies to counter it I think that'll be good.
 Q. How exciting is it to be in contention heading?  Into Sunday, especially when it's so early in the afternoon?  You got a while to think about it.
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   Yeah, it's exciting.  I love being in contention, I love all those feelings that you have.  It's been a minute for me, so I'm just excited to be here.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT