SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
October 1, 2020
Brittany Altomare
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Good day for you overall, 5-under start, and I'm sure that ace helped out a little bit.
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   Yeah, it did.  That was exciting.  I just like heard it.  It made a loud noise.  It hit the pin, and usually when it does that I feel like it could go anywhere, but then it disappointed so I guess that was good.
 Q. I heard over the rules radio that you had left quite a mark when it landed.
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   Yeah.
 Q. Ever done that before?
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   No, not that I can remember.  I couldn't believe he fixed it the way that he did, so...
 Q. Good start obviously.  I would imagine when you can throw up a number like that on this course, especially a course that you can go pretty low at, has to have you feeling pretty good about what's ahead for the weekend.
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   Yeah, I hit the ball really well today.  Made some putts on the front.  Couldn't quite get it going on my back nine, but I still felt pretty good out there.
 I hit a lot of good shots, so looking forward to tomorrow.
 Q. Have you ever shot a 28 before today on any nine?
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   Not in a tournament I don't think.  I can't remember.  Yeah.
 Q. What did you hit on 17?
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   Wedge, pitching wedge.
 Q. How far was the distance?
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   108.
 Q. And you said it hit the stick on the fly?
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   I think so, yeah.  It just like just dunked it in.  It just made a loud noise.  Like I said, usually when that happens I feel like the ball goes anywhere, but it just went right in.
 Q. Seems a lot of people are taking advantage of this beautiful day here.  Take us through your first round at Seaview.
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   Yeah, I mean, started out pretty hot on the front nine.  Just was making putts and had a chip-in, and then hole-out on 17.
 So just felt like couldn't do anything wrong on the front nine, which was great.
 Q. That front nine included that hole-in-one that you just talked about.  Take us through that and what was so special about it and did you realize it had gone in right away?
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   I think was a little shocked because it hit the pin pretty hard, and I feel like usually in my experience when it does that the ball could just go anywhere.  It hits the pin and just ricochets.  It disappeared.  I kind of like looked for a second like, Where did that go?
 So that was good.
 Q. Yeah, we heard that it hit the hole pretty hard there.  What does that do for you -- you're about halfway through your round -- to a hole-out here at a course like Seaview?
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   Yeah, it just gives you good momentum throughout your round.  I feel like when that happens it's just so unexpected.  Just don't realize it's coming, but it's always a nice surprise.
 Q. I know we haven't seen you through ANA, but what have you been focusing on getting ready for an event like this and then KPMG around the corner?
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   Yeah, I like to do a lot of wedges and short game and putting.  Not really a big range rat I guess you could say.
 So I just focused a lot on my wedges and putting just trying to get ready.  I feel like even a major championship the most important thing is your short game.
 Q. With the ace too we have the $20,000 that gets donated to St. Jude's.  What does that mean to you to know something like an ace can lead to something so good?
 BRITTANY ALTOMARE:   Yeah, it's awesome that CME does that.  I think last year they spent a lot of money, which is pretty cool.  I'm just happy that I could contribute in some way to a great cause.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT