PACIFIC-12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2015
Lexy Kresl
Linda Lappe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   Coach Linda Lappe, and Lexy Kresl.   Coach, an opening statement? 
COACH LAPPE:   Well, I'm really, really proud of our effort.   You know, we talked in the locker room about leaving everything on the court.   Coming out and playing really, really hard.   I really feel like we were able to do that.   When that happens, you're not disappointed with the outcome.   Obviously Cal's a very, very good team.   Got to give them a lot of credit for how much pressure their defense puts on our offense.   We had a tough time knocking down some shots, but in the end we had a chance with the three minutes to go, and that's where we wanted to be, and just couldn't quite do it. 
But you know, really good efforts by our three seniors.   I'm really obviously sad that their careers are coming to an end.   They're three really special young ladies that have really bright futures in whatever they decide to do.   We were all playing and coaching for them, and it was just not meant to be today.

Q.   Coach, both teams seemed to struggle here and there.   Brittany Boyd seemed like she was really a catalyst for them.   What were you maybe trying to do in the final few minutes to maybe try and stop her from taking over the game or winning it for Cal? 
COACH LAPPE:   I thought we did a pretty good job maybe from the 8:00 to the 3:30 minute mark on her.   We were keeping her out of the paint a little bit better, but she's a nice player.   She made plays for them.   She got to the rim when she needed to get to the rim.   She hit that really key shot at the free‑throw line when we needed a stop and really come out of the timeout.   That was probably the biggest shot of the game, I think. 
But you've got to give her credit.   She plays hard.   She plays with a lot of heart and goes after it.   We were trying to do everything we could to keep her in front. 
I thought Jen did a nice job on top of our zone defense of being able to keep her in front.   She contested a couple of jumpers.   She missed a couple jumpers in there, but she made the one that really counted, so give her a lot of credit.

Q.   Lexy, did you feel at any point that you guys were running out of that energy that propelled you the first two nights?   It's a lot to keep that going game after game after game. 
LEXY KRESL:   It was a little bit less energy I would say physically today, but mentally we were still focused and we were all there.   Our bodies might not have been able to give us as much as we would have wanted in this game, but I think the effort and everybody's intensity was still there today.   It might not have appeared that way on the defensive end because our game plan was a little bit differently, and not as much pressure on the ball, so it might not have appeared that way.

Q.   Lexy, can you talk a little bit about what Cal was doing on defense that was so effective against your team today? 
LEXY KRESL:   They do a really good job of playing the passing Lane.   They force you to kind of break them down kind of one‑on‑one and then you can distribute.   But you really have to attack their defense because they leave the gaps open, and there's not many passing options, so that kind of disrupted the flow of our offense.

Q.   Coach, what do you see as your postseason now?   WNIT, things like that?   What do you see as far as going forward here? 
COACH LAPPE:   Yeah, I think we're done.   We have to have over .500 to get to the WNIT.   We won't make it to the NCAA Tournament, obviously.   So this was definitely our team's last game.

Q.   Do you feel like all things considered you held your own pretty well with Reshanda Gray inside? 
COACH LAPPE:   Yeah, she's a key.   She's a great player.   She works hard down low.   I thought our team defense was pretty effective on her.   I thought we gave her a couple of easy looks but really made her work for everything that she got.   Jamee did a nice job on her.   Everybody else did a nice job on her of trying not to let the ball go inside.   Obviously when you do that, you're going to give up some open jumpers, which we did.   But we kind of had to pick our poison. 
I think we did a nice job on Gray.   I thought we could have done a little better job on Boyd of not letting her get to the rim quite so easy and make a lot of lay‑ups.

Q.   Coach, you guys had a great start to the game.   Can you talk about what happened and how you came back in the first half? 
COACH LAPPE:   Well, we were getting stops, so they were playing their man defense, and we were moving the ball really well and just taking open shot and hitting the open player.   Then we stopped getting stops, and so they were able to get in their 1‑3‑1, and I thought that disrupted us.   Obviously, we knew it was coming with about 24 hours, not even, to prepare.   There is not much you can do on the court.   You just have to talk and think about different things that you want to do.   That kind of disrupted our flow.   So when they went back man, we were a little bit more rushed.   We were a little bit more uncomfortable.   I think what Cal does well is they keep you uncomfortable all the time.   It's hard to really get in a flow offensively.   Some shots that we normally knock down, you don't knock down when you're not sure what 6'2" hand is going to come at you next. 
They're super long.   They switched up some screens really well.   So they do a nice job of keeping you guessing, and you have to really just be in the attack mode but make sure you're moving open gaps.   I felt like in the second half we did a much, much better job with it.   In the first half, we struggled with it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT