OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 11, 2016
Adilson Da Silva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ADILSON DA SILVA: I couldn't say, I wasn't nervous, because I was nervous, but at the same time, I still need to hit a good shot. Before I tee off, my head was everywhere, just don't goof this. But just towards the end, I managed to calm myself down and focus to what I wanted to do. And I have been hitting my drive well, so I think on the end, I commit to the shot and I hit a nice shot there.  
   
 Q. Has there ever been a more enjoyable round for you?   
ADILSON DA SILVA: It was very enjoyable. I was a bit not completely happy. I just felt like I didn't really got into the game, but I was happy on the end. I finished with a birdie on the end, so it didn't felt all bad.   
But yeah, I felt that I just concentrate in patches. And the course wasn't really playing that tough I didn't think in the beginning because there was not much wind or anything. And it's such a beautiful place, the course is so good.   
   
 Q. Do you feel pressure, more than usual?   
ADILSON DA SILVA: The thing is, if you're not concentrating, if you don't get into the game, you do feel more pressurised to perform and stuff. But I think once I commit, once I could see my shot what I wanted to do, I just do it. But yeah, it's difficult sometimes to just do it and get into it and forget everything else.   
I'll try it. There's a few more rounds to go and I'll concentrate.  
   
 Q. Did you sleep well last night?   
ADILSON DA SILVA: Yeah, look, it's in your mind, everybody talking about it, your friends, saying, wow, it's such a nice thing to do, well done. You do, you actually make sometimes‑‑ but in the end, I still need to hit that shot, so it was, it was tough. It was really tough.  
   
 Q. Is that as nervous as you've been over a tee shot in a while?  
ADILSON DA SILVA: I think that was it, that was probably the one that I had to really push myself hard, hard, hard and think about it. But no, I enjoyed every moment of this one. It was so special, really, very special.   
   
 Q. Were you pleased to see the crowds get bigger and bigger as the day's gone on? It was quite early this morning, but a lot of people there coming in.   
ADILSON DA SILVA: Definitely, I even mentioned to Andy, I said, well, it's nice to see the people coming around and see the support and everything. Some of the people were making a bit of a noise and things, and I said, look, guys, sorry about this, but they understand. They know that we are not there yet but we're learning. People are there just to give us support, it doesn't mean anything, but helping us. I'm thankful for the crowd.  
   
 Q. Your caddie is your respond Senior; pretty special day for him to be on the bag?   
ADILSON DA SILVA: Yeah, he absolutely loved it. It was again, very special for him, and I think it's the least I could have do and let him caddie. He's having a ball, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT