OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 9, 2016
Adilson Da Silva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. So we've waited a long time for this, and obviously it's a big honour for you. Just tell me exactly what your feelings are now as we get closer to the first tee shot.   
ADILSON DA SILVA: Yeah, it's building up. It's very exciting. Especially now that I know I'm going to be hitting the first shot, because it's something that's really, really special. Sometimes the thing is just, wow, what do I do to deserve such an honour. Really, it's huge.  
   
 Q. It's for your country, as well. That's the thing?  
ADILSON DA SILVA: Absolutely. And then also to see a golf course like this, they have done so well. It's something really spectacular.   
Also I think the course is very good, but then again, I've been asking for the officials, for the people that knows even more about the golf course than I do, and they say now this course is very good. Can't complain about it. Which that is even better to see.   
   
 Q. Is it especially important to you from your country's perspective that now the world can see what a great golf course we've got in Rio and what the legacy is going to be left behind for other Brazilians, not just you as a player.  
ADILSON DA SILVA: Absolutely, I think it's going to do very good. Obviously they are going to turn it into a public course and I think that's going to help a lot of people, bring more interest around the game, and then for people to see on TV that's what we need. We need more winners on the golf. We're still very young on this. But I think, yes, it's a big step for us.  
   
 Q. In Scotland, we have 5 million people and nearly 600 golf courses; you have 200 million people. But is this going to change; is that your hope?   
ADILSON DA SILVA: I hope so. I was telling the guys, this is not just a game. It's an experience and I think it makes you a better person. You learn a lot of things on the golf. You learn to be responsible. You learn to be fair and honest. It's a lesson. It's a lesson in life, and it's a way of life.  
And I think we deserve it. I wish more Brazilians to play because it's a good lesson and it's amazing.  
   
 Q. Paulo, the president of the confederation, said that it was it was his aim for Brazil to be the most powerful force in golf in South America one day. Can you see that happening?   
ADILSON DA SILVA: I certainly can see it. It's doing very well and man, we have so much potential here. It could turn out to be something really major.   
But we need to work. We need to get the kids here. We need to get the ball rolling. I think it's a big difference, a country like South Africa. They started early there. And then by the time they were teenagers, they are ready to get on Tour and that's what it's about.  
   
 Q. When did you start?   
ADILSON DA SILVA: I started when I was about‑‑ playing for sure, really about 17, and I went to Zimbabwe, yeah.   
   
 Q. Maybe if you had started at 7 instead of 17, who knows.   
ADILSON DA SILVA: It's my excuse for bad golf, or my bad golf. But look, it's a process. Golf, it's growth, it's learning, and it's growing with it. It's just getting in there and do it. It's a big thing‑‑ it's a big learning curve. But as I say, it's a wonderful game and we're very lucky to host it. And lucky to be hitting that shot.   
But then again, it's not only me. I have to thank my other team and my wife, especially. It's very, very hard for me to go and leave her behind, as well as my son, and family, sponsors, everybody. I couldn't ever think in taking the whole thing for myself. It's not only me.   
   
 Q. And the population of Brazil?  
ADILSON DA SILVA: Absolutely.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT