THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2012
Adilson Da Silva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   It looked like it was going to be a great back nine for you except for the last.   What happened?  
ADILSON DA SILVA:   I think I‑‑ I didn't commit 100 percent on my shot on the last hole here.   I had about 168 to the pin, and I knew it had to be a good 7, and I think I ended up trying to hit it a bit quick, and that's what happened.   Just turnover and‑‑  
   
 Q.   So you're just outside the cut mark now.   It doesn't take a lot to get you back in the cut.   Were you aware of the scores?   
ADILSON DA SILVA:   Well, I wasn't really worried because I was just trying to play.   But this course is just so punishing.   If you hit a bad shot it just happens so quickly.   But, yeah, I wasn't really too worried about it.   I was just trying to hit the shot.   And unfortunately I just came off with a bad one at the wrong time.   
   
 Q.   If this is your last round, what are you going to take away from this week?  
ADILSON DA SILVA:   Sure, it's been a great experience.   Look, I'm not happy with myself to have played sort of like ‑‑ gotten back in there and then hang in there sort of thing, because it's a tough course, man.   It just feels like if you hit a bad shot, yeah, you're into the pot bunker, and it's a nightmare.   But for me it's been great.   It shows me that I can do it.   
And obviously I had like three double bogeys for two days and a couple of three‑putts.   Yeah, stay positive, which is very hard, but what do you do, I've just got to learn from it.   That's good.   
   
 Q.   Are you going to hang around the course just now just to see what's going on?  
ADILSON DA SILVA:   Yeah, I think we're going to hang around.   
My putter sort of let me down a little bit.   Couldn't hole much there.   I think I had a three‑putt on 4 or 5.   But I missed a couple.   So, anyway, yeah, I'll hang around and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   Hope to see you on the weekend.   
ADILSON DA SILVA:   Thanks, man.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT