BUICK OPEN
July 29, 2004
Mike Grob
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIKE GROB:   Make it long and not have any rough, and it only favors one type of player.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
MIKE GROB:   No, no, trying different things with my putter.  Misreading the putts, I wouldn't say I putted bad, but today I putted good.  I missed one on the last hole.  I felt it break but then I thought I read something more than what I thought so I played left break and what I saw, I was wrong.  Outguessed myself.

I did change a little something in my putting from yesterday to today, and it works as a Band Aid, but it doesn't work for a long time.  But I'm not going to tell you what it is     no, I'm not going to change it, no.  After the first two holes tomorrow I may try something else.  (Laughing).
Q.  Earlier in the year     inaudible?
MIKE GROB:   We are trying to go two for two this week.  Today is the only time he's caddied for me, yeah.  I had seen him, once earlier this year.  And he couldn't     he's been at home for a while     not going to ask him obviously because he's Lee Janzen's regular caddie.  I asked him one of the weeks off and he was going to spend time with his family.

I'm happy to take him whenever I can.  He's a great caddie.  It's easy to play with him.  He doesn't overcaddie.  Just a good caddie.
Q.  All Stars during your career     inaudible?
MIKE GROB:   As far as I can, the way this golf course is set up     inaudible    they were talking a lot about how you were going to pay a price.  I putted really well this week, so really pleased with the way I hung in there.  I didn't feel my game was that great coming in and that's probably one of the reasons I chose to do what I did and played last week.  I knew it was a good golf course only I had not played it in a few years.

Trying to make this Ryder Cup team, it's the best place for me to be.  Wish I had a couple more.
Q.  Inaudible?
MIKE GROB:   Yeah, if I played my normal game, if I played my good game.
Q.  Inaudible?
MIKE GROB:  It's an equalizer for me, I need that.  It doesn't do me any good when I go on golf courses with pretty wide fairways or no rough or very little rough.  I can't compete.  I'm hitting 5 iron in and they are hitting 8 iron or 9 iron     guys need to be penalized when they miss a fairway.  This is a position golf course.  It always has been a position golf course.
Q.  Is there something about today
MIKE GROB:  The ones where you think you're going to get them back     but a really tough pin placement on 16 which is a tricky one to try and get it.  You don't want to go over the green, if you don't get it back there and 17 was really hard and 18 is in a difficult spot.  It may be a birdie hole but you have to hit it in the fairway first.

I had a really tough time on 13.  It was downwind to the front pin, felt the grain just over a bunker.  That's probably why     I take that back nine specifically      (Inaudible.)
Q.  You came here looking for Ryder Cup points
MIKE GROB:   Yeah, this is a huge goal this year was to make the Ryder Cup     inaudible    last year, representing your country.  I think if I have half a chance of making the Ryder Cup team, maybe making the Ryder Cup team would be something beyond my expectations but I didn't really expect that especially     my career.  I've worked really hard to try to stay in shape.  I got a little frustrated myself on Saturday, chickened up a little bit, playing safe for a couple rounds and actually bogeyed 16, going back to that back pin the other day when they had it in the back.  I had a bad wedge on 15     1 iron on 14, said to my caddie this is ridiculous.
Q.  Inaudible?
MIKE GROB:   I didn't even look at the board.  I had a feeling on 13 and I had no idea where anybody else was.  I'm watching the board all day usually but today     I didn't want to see what anybody was doing.  And when I talked up an the green I was just trying to concentrate on what I had to do.  I had a really hard 2 putt there and almost made it.  I played a 12 foot break on a 50 foot putt, really fast.  And hit it to a gimmee.  That was really a good feeling when I did that.
Q.  Inaudible?
MIKE GROB:   I still think it will come down to the PGA because it's double points there and we're going to a golf course next week that I like and hopefully I can get a few more next week.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT