AMUNDI OPEN DE FRANCE
October 17, 2019
Justin Walters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A round of 67 today here at Le Golf National, what are your thoughts on that performance?  
JUSTIN WALTERS: Surprised, to be honest with you. I haven't played very well on this golf course in the past, so to find myself where I was through ten holes, I had to pinch myself. But maybe reality set in. I didn't do too much wrong coming in. Just missed a few putts. If you gave me that at the beginning of the day, I would probably have bit your arm off.   
A little disappointed obviously where I was, but overall, very happy.   
 Q.  We know your story, and we have a great amount of sympathy, the loss of your dad recently. We followed you and greatly rejoiced and you've played your best stuff so far this year, tenth place in Italy last week. What is truly clicking for you in golf right now?  
JUSTIN WALTERS: I think putting golf in perspective. I think that's been the hardest thing for me. I'm not trying to dwell in my sorrows and what I've been through, but you almost felt like what else could go wrong, and you know, after I started playing well, I felt like the game -- I almost deserved some good rounds and the game should give it to me. I was just in a bad place after Spain, and I withdrew out of this event and had a chat with a few people that just helped put things in perspective a little better for me.   
Obviously Sunday in Italy was a massive moment for me. I think I jumped a big hurdle there. To come here this week with the same kind of mind-set is obviously showing dividends. The hard part is keeping it up and going. But to be signing rounds in the 60s again is just a wonderful relief. It's lovely to up lift my family with some good golf and myself and just everyone around me, so it's nice just to play good golf again. You look up and see a ball go in, you pick up a tee and the ball is going on the fairway. It's been soothing, and long may it last. I know it won't last for a long time, but it's just nice that it's happening again. So just trying to finish the year out strong and see where that puts me. Where it does, I'll just keep going. That's kind of where I'm at now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT