PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 11, 2013
Justin Walters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   That is some going, maybe the best of the year?
JUSTIN WALTERS:   Definitely the best of the year by a long way.   Just I really hit it so badly on the range this morning, too.   That's the thing.   But I just‑‑ usually the last time did I that was in Germany in the last round.   I had a really good last round, too. 
Maybe I just need to hit it badly on the range before; that would be the secret.   I really just struck some good shots, and the putting was really, really terrific today.   Really kept the momentum going, and I hit some good shots, but also made a lot of good putts.

Q.   Isn't that one of those silly things about golf, sometimes you just have to beat yourself up that little bit before you go out and play with some abandon. 
JUSTIN WALTERS:   Yeah, well, as I mentioned in the previous interview, with the family, even little things like that don't bother me as much as probably they would have earlier in the year.   It's been a really stressful year with Mum being sick, and I think I took it with me on the golf course and the game itself and just put too much pressure on myself.   Just the last couple of weeks, I've been out here just playing for her.   It's been great; it's been fun.

Q.   So trying to keep the card is very much secondary? 
JUSTIN WALTERS:   Yeah, and I‑‑ it's hard for me to say that, but the way I feel, yeah, it is.   It would be lovely to do that, because I spend so much time away from her trying to achieve this.   So if I can do it in the end, it would be great. 

Q.   In golfing terms, you're in lovely position on a course you like and everybody enjoys playing here; it's a feel‑good factor. 
JUSTIN WALTERS:   I couldn't imagine why they don't like the sunshine and everything, yeah.   It's just so superb here.   We've had such good weather, and I've really, really enjoyed the warmth, and the golf course itself is in great shape and the greens this morning were superb.   Yeah, I would come back here on holiday, never mind here, to play a tournament.   I've really enjoyed being here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT