TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 16, 2005
Gaston Gaudio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Gaston Gaudio.  Questions, please. 


Q.  Mr. Ljubicic said yesterday that things didn't seem to work for him, like the net was too high and the court seemed too short.  Was it the same for you today?  Was it just an off day?  How were you feeling? 

GASTON GAUDIO:  No, I felt okay.  He was better than me, and I don't think that the court changed too much.  I saw it the same the whole year.  So it was a matter that he was playing better than me, and there was nothing wrong. 

Q.  I would like to ask, you performed very good, but finally you lost the match.  You almost lost your temper during the match.  What did you think at that time? 

GASTON GAUDIO:  Of course I was a little bit frustrated, you know.  I was like 6-3, 5-1 in the second set so I was almost losing the match.  I was getting really mad, and that's why I broke my racquet.  I was getting so pissed.  That situation is normal, you know, when you are losing so easy.  That's why I react like that. 

Q.  My question is when you went through the whole game, do you find the fact that once you got a chance to come back you would make a mistake?  I saw the whole game and I found the fact that when you got a chance to come back, you would make a mistake after this.  Like the 10th game in the second set, you got triple breakpoints but lost. 

GASTON GAUDIO:  I know that I got too many chances to break his serve.  But when he was serving 5-4, Love-40, I think that he was serving pretty good, that he didn't miss not even one first serve, and I couldn't do much.  That's why I think that I couldn't break his serve.  He was serving pretty good. 

Q.  Can you talk about the surface.  Everybody is talking about the surface. 

GASTON GAUDIO:  Well, of course I prefer to play on clay instead of playing in this surface, but nothing that we can do now.  This is the surface that we're gonna play for the rest of the Masters, and I think that we don't have to talk about that anymore.  That's it. 

Q.  If you had a choice, Federer or Ljubicic, who would you like to play next? 

GASTON GAUDIO:  Ljubicic. 

Q.  Why? 

GASTON GAUDIO:  Why?  Because one is the No. 1 in the world and he didn't lose a match since I don't know when.  It's not too difficult. 

Q.  When you saved three matchpoints, did you feel you had a chance to win?  What did you think at that time? 

GASTON GAUDIO:  Yeah, of course I thought that I got an opportunity.  I was almost getting 5-All in the second set and I was coming back from being 5-1 down.  So actually I was pretty exciting, you know, that I was almost getting to the match again.  But finally I couldn't do it, so doesn't make any sense all the things that I did. 

Q.  During the match you almost lost control.  The fans supported you.  What do you think about the fans? 

GASTON GAUDIO:  Well, the fans were great.  They were pretty good, you know.  They were supporting me the whole match, even that I was losing easy.  I made a few things that maybe in another part of the world they wouldn't like it, and here they were exciting, you know, that I broke my racquet and I was doing stupid stuff sometimes.  But they were fun.  They were great.  Thank you. 

Q.  I don't know if you mind, I would like to ask you a question about your hairstyle.  You changed your hairstyle here from the Opening Ceremony.  You have a different style than here.  Do you want to talk about your hairstyle? 

GASTON GAUDIO:  Yeah, I can about my hairstyle, but I didn't change anything.  It's the same one that I used to use during the whole year. 


Q.  I would like to ask how much you're confident to qualify for the semis. 

GASTON GAUDIO:  Well, it's gonna be tough, you know.  I'm gonna play against Gonzalez.  He's playing pretty good.  He won Basel a few weeks ago.  He usually play better than me in this surface.  I have pretty good chances, but it's gonna be difficult.  Being in a Masters and qualify for the semifinals, it's always tough.  So tomorrow -- I don't know when I'm gonna play again.  It's gonna be --

GASTON GAUDIO:  Yeah, Friday.  It's gonna be really difficult.  I would love to qualify, but you never know. 

Q.  With the racquet, you know, you showed your frustration a little bit out there.  Could you put your finger on perhaps what was wrong with your game today? 

GASTON GAUDIO:  Well, I think that it's normal that I get frustrated in that situation, you know, being 6-3, 5-1, losing easily, you know.  It's like a little bit disappointing.  So some time it happen that you can't control yourself.  And actually it was one of those days that I couldn't do too much and that's what I did, I broke my racquet once again (smiling). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT