TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 14, 2005
Gaston Gaudio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English or Chinese, please. 


Q.  A lot of players withdrew before and during the tournament.  How is your physical condition?  Do you feel good playing here?

GASTON GAUDIO:  Yeah, I'm feeling great.  Nothing is going wrong with me.  I'm fit and nothing is gonna happen with me - I hope. 

Q.  Agassi is out of the group.  What do you think of your chances to qualify?

GASTON GAUDIO:  Well, I have to play match by match.  I just -- my coach told me as soon as I finished the match that Agassi pulled out.  I really don't think about it.  But I have to think about the next match, and it's Davydenko.  And if I don't win, I don't know if I'm gonna qualify or not.  It depends of what I do. 

Q.  Guillermo Coria was complaining about the speed of the surface the other day.  Do you feel it's too fast, or it's okay?

GASTON GAUDIO:  No, the surface is fast.  I think that we should -- they should put it in the middle, you know, not too fast, not too slow, to be fair.  But this is the way that it is, so nothing we can do about it.  We have to play on this.  We knew it since a week, so we don't have to talk about that anymore. 

Q.  What do you think of the retirement of so many players from this tournament? 

GASTON GAUDIO:  I think that is tennis, this is life, and it happens.  Sometimes you are a little bit unlucky and you cannot do anything.  You get injured and there's nothing that you can do about it.  But it's a pity for the people here in China that they're not gonna see the top players.  But anyway, that's why the other ones are coming, you know, the No. 10 in the world, 11, 12.  So still a good tournament, so we have to enjoy it. 

Q.  We have five South Americans in the tournament out of the eight.  Do you want to comment on that? 

GASTON GAUDIO:  Well, it's great.  The most unbelievable thing I think is that we have four Argentinians in the Masters.  That is great.  For me and for my country, that is like awesome.  So I am happy about that. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT