US OPEN
August 29, 2005
Gaston Gaudio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English, please. 


Q.  Did he surprise you? 

GASTON GAUDIO:  No. 

Q.  You knew about him?

GASTON GAUDIO:  Yeah, I knew him.  He was playing pretty good, that's why.  He was better than me today.

Q.  He seemed to have some problems with his leg at one point.  Did you notice any difference in his play as the match went on? 

GASTON GAUDIO:  Yeah, I think that in the 4-3 or when he was serving 4-3, he was not serving like before.  But then he started serve good again. 

Q.  This is such a difficult time for Argentine tennis with Canas and I guess there have been four players now involved. 

GASTON GAUDIO:  I don't want to talk about it. 

Q.  Not at all?

GASTON GAUDIO:  No. 

Q.  The quarterfinals of Canada.  Were you expecting that momentum to get you farther on hard courts?

GASTON GAUDIO:  Yeah, of course I was expecting to make a better tournament here, but you never know, you know.  I play a guy that today was better than me and I couldn't do anything else.  For me, it would be better if I can reach a few rounds or if I can win a couple of rounds here to get into the Masters or even to be like close over there, but I didn't do anything. 

Q.  You said you were not surprised by him.  What did Brian do to kind of win this match? 

GASTON GAUDIO:  He was serving -- he was serving pretty good today.  And then from the baseline, I thought that he -- I thought that I was like I can take advantage of that, but I couldn't do it, you know.  Like he was playing pretty good from the baseline, too.  So serving good and playing good from the baseline, I think I couldn't do -- I didn't get any opportunity to break his serve or anything.

Q.  What were you planning on?  What was your game plan going in to try to beat him?  Were you expecting to try to make him move?

GASTON GAUDIO:  Yeah, trying to make him move a little bit, but I couldn't. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT