TMS MONTE CARLO
April 14, 2005
Gaston Gaudio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 

Q.  Were you upset by the fact that they counted two foot faults during the first set?
 
GASTON GAUDIO:  Yes, it made me angry, but it's something that happens very frequently during a match.  And even if it's one time more or one time less, it doesn't matter; it's normal. 
 

Q.  People are talking about Ferrero, Coria, Safin, but nobody's talking about you as a favorite.  Do you prefer it that way, or do you think you would deserve to be among them?
 
GASTON GAUDIO:  I think it's good that way.  If people talk about them, it means they really are favorites.  For me, it's perfect. 
 

Q.  You played a very original shot against Agassi in Miami between your legs next to the net.  Where did that shot come from?
 
GASTON GAUDIO:  I do that sometimes.  I did it once in Australia and it worked.  Against Agassi it didn't work.  It just comes to me naturally sometimes. 
 

Q.  Are you happy with your level of game after the three matches here on clay?
 
GASTON GAUDIO:  Yes, I played well today.  During the first two matches I was adapting to clay, and I'm happy with my game today. 
 

Q.  You won two tournaments in South America.  Did it help you a lot for playing on clay here?
 
GASTON GAUDIO:  It gave me a lot of confidence, and on top of it, it was on clay.  Because after spending one month on cement, you lose your rhythm on clay and it's more difficult. 
 

Q.  Are you already thinking about the French Open?
 
GASTON GAUDIO:  No.  Well, the French Open is always in the back of your mind because it's the tournament I prefer, but there are many tournaments before that where it is important to play well. 
 

Q.  After the French Open you said you didn't deserve this victory because Coria had physical problems.  Do you think it's unfair of you to say that?
 
GASTON GAUDIO:  That's tennis.  When you play, you have to play with your mind but also with your physical condition.  When you have five-setters, the physical aspect comes into account, so you can either not be tired or, on the contrary, have cramps.  This is a part of the game. Now as to know whether I deserve that or not, I couldn't say, and I don't care.  It's tennis. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT