ATP CUP
January 4, 2020
Gaston Gaudio
Andres Molteni
Maximo Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GONZALEZ-MOLTENI/Hurkacz-Kubot   
6-2, 6-4   
Team Argentina - 2   
Team Poland - 1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  For either one of you guys, how nice was it to come through for your country after being tied at 1-All?  
ANDRES MOLTENI: It was, it was. We had the responsibility to go and to give the point to Argentina, and hopefully we play good and we get the point.   
So it was really exciting and we are really happy now of playing well and giving the point to Argentina.   
 Q.  Lukasz felt that you guys played a very smart tactical match. Was there something that you sort of had in mind that you wanted to do going into it?  
GASTON GAUDIO: Well, maybe Maximo can tell you that. He's a specialist in doubles and a specialist and give us the tactic for us.   
MAXIMO GONZALEZ: I really know Lukasz Kubot. I play against him many times. I know how he play. I think this is important when you play with a specialist player.   
But I think important we play a good match together, we, Andres, and that's the important I think when you play your game and you can do it on the match, no?   
 Q.  Gaston, how much fun did you have in the environment? Obviously back and forth. You win the first match and Hubie wins the second match. You hear all the chants and everything. How much fun was it for you today?  
GASTON GAUDIO: I don't know if I can say it was fun, but it was a great experience, you know (smiling). Like I said before, being surrounded with all my friends, you know, and people who knows about tennis. And being in the same chair and sharing the thoughts, I think is actually a pretty good experience.   
The only thing that it was good was that we won the tie, and like I said before, you know, they got an unbelievable level of tennis, and I'm happy because of them.   
 Q.  Is that what's special about this event for you, being able to share it with the guys from your country?  
GASTON GAUDIO: It's special, yes. Of course it's different. Like representing our country with the team inside of the court is not that -- I have never felt it before, you know.   
I was Davis Cup captain a couple of months ago in Madrid, and I was there by myself. Even that I allowed to talk to the people outside just in the changeover is not the same. You know, you can comment, you can give your thoughts and you can listen to the other ones, their opinions during the game, and you can coach to the player without any restriction, so in that sense, it's actually pretty fun.   
 Q.  Guido was talking about before how he used the stats on the tablet and everything. Was that also nice to have there on top of what you mentioned?  
GASTON GAUDIO: We went yesterday to the strategy room just to check up the players of Poland. But, I mean, we know the players since we know each other for a long time, and we have been in the tour, so we know how they play already.   
We didn't use it during the match that much. You know, like we use it, but it's not something that it's going to be like -- I don't know how to say in English. Yeah, you're not going to take any advantage out of that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT