WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 13, 2003
Gaston Gaudio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Gaston.


Q.  So you like it here then?

GASTON GAUDIO:  Well, I like to play over here.  I really enjoy this tournament.  We have everything.  We have the golf there, I love to play golf.  So I feel okay in here. 

Q.  He seems to have had trouble with you in the past, although he won the last few.  What do you think it is about your game that gives him problems?

GASTON GAUDIO:  No, we used to make always tough matches when we play each other.  The last three, I guess, he won, but I was pretty close when I lost in Monte-Carlo and I lost in Roma.  Like I told you, we used to play like always tough matches, and it's so close, it could be for one or for the other. 

Q.  Is there something about his game that you find...? 

GASTON GAUDIO:  I don't know why.  Maybe because we know each other since like we were young.  So every time that we play against, you know, it's like we know each other so much.  So there's always tough matches.

Q.  Why was today good for you?  Why did it work for you?

GASTON GAUDIO:  I was a little bit lucky when he was serving in the third set 5-4, that he made an easy mistake in the first point of the game.  Then I make a good return, and I was like Love-40 in two seconds.  So I was lucky that game. It was so close that, I mean, was that, you know, the last game was everything. 

Q.  Can you talk about Argentine tennis.  There's so many players doing so well right now.  Do you have any idea why that is, or how so many of you have come together at the same time?

GASTON GAUDIO:  Well, actually, I really don't know what happened.  We're playing very good everyone.  I think that maybe because one is getting to the final in a big tournament like that.  Last week, the other one is thinking, "If he's doing that, maybe I can do it either."  So it's like a kind of a  -- one player motivates the other one, you know?  It's like kind of that I guess. 

Q.  Why all at the same time?  You had Vilas and Clerc, then there was really no one. 

GASTON GAUDIO:  Yeah, there was -- yeah, Mancini.  But after that ones, there didn't come anyone.  But now there are like, I don't know, 10 players that are playing unbelievable.  Is always happen the same.  It's like between one and the other was like 10 years, you know.  After Mancini, Jaite, and all that ones, no one comes.   Now there's getting someone new, I don't know why.

Q.  Is that because more people are into soccer?

GASTON GAUDIO:  I really don't know.  Because from the tennis federation in Argentina, we don't get anything so it's not because of them. 

Q.  How old are you?

GASTON GAUDIO:  24.

Q.  Did Vilas or Clerc have any involvement with any of you guys?

GASTON GAUDIO:  No. 

Q.  Encouragement even? 

GASTON GAUDIO:  No, he used to come over, practice in Buenos Aires.  Yeah, he used to say  - I don't know  - he'd teach us some things, some kind of experience that he had, but not much.

Q.  That's Vilas or Clerc?

GASTON GAUDIO:  Vilas.  Clerc I think is living here in Miami. 

Q.  Soccer is still the number one game in your country.  How much behind is tennis right now? 

GASTON GAUDIO:  Yeah, I think that soccer is gonna be always the first sport in our country, and then maybe tennis is coming up. 

Q.  As a second sport?

GASTON GAUDIO:  Yeah.  As popular, no. 

Q.  The people back home, have you noticed people getting more and more excited about what you're doing, what the other Argentines are doing?

GASTON GAUDIO:  Yeah, of course.  Everybody is playing so good that the people there in Argentina are getting, you know, like still following us, of course.  Coria is gonna get into the Masters maybe.  People, they're really behind that. 

Q.  Is it to the point where, you know, you can't go out in public anymore because everyone knows who you are?

GASTON GAUDIO:  No, not like that.  We can still going out and all that. 

Q.  Can you talk about the next round against Robby.

GASTON GAUDIO:  I really don't know him so much because we never play against each other.  But I know he's playing unbelievable good here in this surface, and it's gonna be tough for sure. 

Q.  What can you envision for your next major goal?  What do you want to try to accomplish next? 

GASTON GAUDIO:  I would love to win like first a Masters Series  - of course on clay because here it's gonna be difficult for me, but I will try to.  And then my dream is like winning the French Open. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT