TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 25, 2001
Gaston Gaudio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions first in English. 
 

Q.  Was that one of your biggest wins of your career?
 
GASTON GAUDIO: I answer in Spanish? 
 
GASTON GAUDIO: I'm gonna try.  I hope that yes, is the first time that I beat a Top 10 I guess.  So I'm here in Ericsson, it's really good for me to be here.  I beat Kafelnikov and I'm really happy because of that.   
 

Q.  Did you think he was at his best today? Was it more his mistakes or your good play?
 
GASTON GAUDIO: I think that it's both.  He didn't play so good, and I play a good match.  But of course he didn't play so good that he usually play.  So was better for me. 
 

Q.  Did you think you frustrated him by getting a lot of balls back?
 
GASTON GAUDIO: Yes.  I mean, is the way that I play, so that is the best thing that I am usually does.  So maybe he get frustrated, like you said, but I play a good match so that is important for me.  
 

Q.  Sometimes they say Yevgeny suddenly loses interest out there maybe.  Did you detect that today at all, that he seemed like,  "I don't care"?
 
GASTON GAUDIO: Yes, maybe in the second set he started to play not so good like in the first.  So yes, I start to feel that in the second.  
 

Q.  When you see that, you're on the other side of the net and you see that, does that make you more confident or does that make you think like,  "What's the story with this guy? He's not even trying."
 
GASTON GAUDIO: I mean, I don't care what he did in the  -- during the match.  The only thing that I want is to win the match, so I was watching him but he was like tanking, you know, in the second set.  But the important thing was to win the match, so... 
 

Q.  Your best results have been on the clay.  Is this maybe the best hardcourt tournament for you?
 
GASTON GAUDIO: Yes, maybe yes.  I play good in Oakland, too.  I reach into the semifinals.  But here of course is more important tournament, so...  And also I beat Kafelnikov so that is really important for me.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT