DAVIS CUP FINALS
November 22, 2019
Gaston Gaudio
Maximo Gonzalez
Leonardo Mayer
Guido Pella
Diego Schwartzman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SPAIN 2, Argentina 1
PELLA/Carreno Busta 6-7, 7-6, 6-1
NADAL/Schwartzman 6-1, 6-2
GRANOLLERS-NADAL/Gonzalez-Mayer 6-4, 4-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Do we have any questions in English?
Q. Gaston and the players, tough loss today. You played a very good team in front of the home crowd. But you did have some good support from the Argentine fans. Could you tell us about the crowd atmosphere and your thoughts on how do you compare the new format of the Davis Cup to the old one? What about advantages and disadvantages you see?
GASTON GAUDIO: You were asking about our fans? The fans of Argentina, like I always said, they are amazing. They were great today, they were great during the whole week.
And if we're talking about the format, I guess it was pretty good. I don't know. Like, it was an exciting week. There's a few changes that I would make, but in general, I think that it was nice. It was exciting to feel like playing for a national team like for Argentina but altogether, like we used to play when we were young, when kids.
So in that sense, I guess it was pretty nice.
Q. (Off microphone.)
GASTON GAUDIO: I would make a few changes in a way that maybe should be longer. I don't understand how come you are going to play like seven days in a row, and then you go to a tournament like Miami or Indian Wells and you have 15 days. So in that case I think that this format deserved at least ten days so you don't have to play one day after the other.
THE MODERATOR: Any other questions? One more.
Q. Just one more. How do you compare this with the ATP Cup which is coming up? Like, it's a similar format. Like, you have 16 countries over about a ten-day period. It's the same team competition. And we already have three team competitions in the space of about four months: Laver Cup, Davis Cup, and the ATP Cup. So your thoughts on do you feel a long-term solution would be to have so many team competitions? Your thoughts on whether it's possible to merge both, as Rafa and Novak was also suggesting.
GASTON GAUDIO: I don't understand. Well, that could be a chance. There could be a possibility that maybe they can do it, they can join them and do them together. I guess it would be good.
I don't have too many information about the ATP Cup in Australia. I actually didn't follow the rules or the way that they're going to do it.
But it sounds quite funny to make it this Davis Cup in December, almost December, and the next one is going to be in a couple of months. So I don't think that that is going to be -- it's going to work out like this in the future.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much. Questions in Spanish.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT