TMS - MONTE-CARLO
April 22, 2006
Gaston Gaudio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  Bad luck.  It was a fantastic first set, and then what happened for you after that?   
 GASTON GAUDIO:  Oh, he was actually too good, I think.  I played a great first set and then he was playing pretty much better than me.  And after the first set, I think that both, we were so tired that we couldn't run anymore.  He take advantage of that, and he deserve it.   
  Q.  You were very frustrated when he blocked that volley at the beginning of the third.  You got a warning.   
 GASTON GAUDIO:  Yeah, sure.  I mean, it was an important game and I was almost winning the point and finally he just get it, you know.  It's like a little bit of luck, and I was frustrated, of course.   
  Q.  Overall, how do you think you played today and this week?  Is it encouraging for you?   
 GASTON GAUDIO:  Yeah, sure.  I was playing better day by day, you know.  Today, I think it was my best match even that I lost.  And, finally, play in the semifinals against these guys, it's pretty good.   
  Q.  Is it impossible to maintain this high level you had in the first set to beat him?   
 GASTON GAUDIO:  Well, if you want to beat Nadal, you got to play like that the whole match, you know.  I only could play only one set, and that's why I lost.   
 I have to get more prepared for that, and I will try to do it in the next one.   
  Q.  Is it a problem physically?   
 GASTON GAUDIO:  I think that it's more physically, the tennis level, you know.  I think that it's physically more.   
  Q.  Still, at the end of the first set, he almost seemed more tired than you were, I mean, for a few seconds.   
 GASTON GAUDIO:  No, he was tired, too.  At the beginning of the second set I realized that he was tired, too.  But I don't know how he take advantage of that.  I don't know how, but he did it.   
  Q.  Do you think it's a mental thing?   
 GASTON GAUDIO:  Yeah, of course.  Sure.  He was more strong than me mentally.   
  Q.  The first set, when was the last time you played that well on clay, do you think?   
 GASTON GAUDIO:  I was playing like this last year some other tournaments, not in the big ones, that's why you didn't see me.  But I was playing in the small tournaments, I was playing sometimes like this.  That's why now I'm playing the important tournaments, and I hope to play like this, you know, during the whole season.   
  Q.  That first set must make you pretty confident for the French Open, if you can maintain that level?   
 GASTON GAUDIO:  Yeah, yeah.  It's pretty good to start, you know, the season on clay like this.  So I hope to continue like this and get into the French Open as fit as I can, you know.   
  Q.  If today was a Slam, best-of-five, what would have happened?  I mean, you think you could have won the fourth set or no?   
 GASTON GAUDIO:  Yeah, but you get prepared for that, you know, before the match.  You go, you know, you prepare the match.  You have one day, the day before the match, you have rest, you know, you don't play too much.  Here, you play every time in a row, you know.  It's like a little bit too much.  And for the Grand Slam, you go there and prepare the whole tournament.   
 So I think that mental, I was -- I would get over there, you know, a little bit more prepared for that.   
  Q.  Do you think that Gonzalez or Federer have a chance against Nadal on clay if he plays like that?   
 GASTON GAUDIO:  Yeah, sure.  Imagine, we are talking about Federer, you know.  It's like one of the best one in the whole world - well, the best one in history.  He always have a chance to anyone.   
 Gonzalez, if he reach the semifinals in such a tournament like this, I think that he can do it either.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT