SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 4, 2015
Amanda Butler
Kayla Lewis
Ronni Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We're now joined by Florida head coach along with players Ronni Williams and Kayla Lewis. 
Coach, please begin with an opening statement. 
COACH BUTLER:   I just want to congratulate Auburn.   They were fantastic today.   I think it's arguably the hottest team in the league right now.   They did just a fantastic job from the jump of executing their game plan.   We were reacting to that the entire game. 
We've got a lot of areas we have to look at and change and grow from, learn from.   But Kayla didn't deserve the way we played today.   I'm really disappointed for that. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   You had trouble shooting the ball today.   What can you attribute that to? 
KAYLA LEWIS:   Well, you can't ever attribute that to something.   Shooting is something that comes and goes.   You can have a good night or a bad night. 
Shooting the ball I don't think was our biggest problems.   I think one of our biggest problems was we turned the ball over.   We gave points to people in the way we knew they scored.   We didn't do a good job defending Auburn, and they did a great job executing what they did well. 
Their press was very effective and has gotten better since the last time we played them.   I don't think it was our shooting that lost the game. 

Q.   Was that something you saw the last time, the press?   How did that throw a wrench into what you were trying to do?
KAYLA LEWIS:   Wasn't a surprise.   Knew it.   Worked on it.   They did a good job in it.   We didn't do a good job executing, miscommunications, not getting the ball out of our hands fast enough.   Their execution was better than ours in the press. 

Q.   Ronni, they got off to such a good start.   Looked like you came out at half with some energy.   Was there a moment where you thought, This is where we make our run or was it always a struggle? 
RONNI WILLIAMS:   I wouldn't say it was a struggle.   Our shots just weren't falling.   Like Kayla said, we had turnovers. 
But Auburn is a great team.   They have a great defense.   So in order for us to be able to execute what we needed to do, it had to be perfection.   The passes, we had to meet our passes.   That was our main thing tonight, just meeting our passes. 

Q.   Coach, you mentioned how well Auburn has been playing.   What was the biggest concern playing a team first round of a tournament that closed the regular season on such a good run?
COACH BUTLER:   Well, I mean, confidence is a really, really powerful thing.   We had some tough situations down the stretch, disappointment our last home game, last regular‑season game.   I thought we had the right mindset.   But clearly I was wrong.   I was wrong.   Sometimes coaches are wrong. 
But I just really commend Terri.   They had a lot of adversity this season, losing a significant player in a key time.   I think you just got to commend her and her team the way they came together and played even tougher and harder for one another. 

Q.   What do you think you can attribute the shooting trouble to tonight?   Anything in particular? 
COACH BUTLER:   We've not been a very good shooting team all year.   That's not what we hang our hat on.   We put a lot more energy and effort into our defense which didn't hold up very well tonight either. 
Certainly you can shoot the ball and cover up for some breakdowns.   But we didn't play particularly well on either end of the floor.   But I give Auburn all the credit for that. 
THE MODERATOR:   Coach, ladies, thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT