NCAA MEN'S 1ST & 2ND ROUNDS: NEW ORLEANS
March 18, 2010
Murray Bartow
Adam Sollazzo
Micah Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 MODERATOR: Coach Bartow, a few opening remarks. 
 COACH BARTOW: Obviously, a tough game for us. Kentucky jumped out on us. Our scouting report said they couldn't make threes and they made 15 of them. So, obviously, if the rest of the tournament they shoot the ball the way they did tonight, they're obviously going to be a very tough out. Tough to beat. 
 They're very good at both ends of the floor, and we knew that coming in. They're good offensively, and they're good defensively. And first half we obviously struggled. I was proud of our guys. 
 Second half I thought we competed hard, fought hard. They kept battling, which I knew we would. That doesn't surprise me. But Kentucky's really good. They're really good. 
 Obviously, Bledsoe had a great game. You know, we obviously came into the game wanting to pack it in and some man and some zone, but certainly wanted to pack it in tight. Trying to keep them out of the paint. Trying to force them to shoot perimeter jump shots. We knew if those were going down, we were in trouble. And unfortunately those were going down. 
 So we didn't play a very good first half. Second half we competed hard, fought hard, and I'm really, really proud of our team. We've had a good year. It's been a very challenging year. But we knew we'd have to play a great, great game tonight. Just the first half we didn't play well enough on either end to make it much of a game. 
 But I'm really proud of our team. Proud of our guys, and certainly wish Kentucky a lot of luck. I like John a lot. He's a great coach. They've got a great team, so certainly we wish them a lot of luck in their upcoming games. 

 Q. Were they a little better than you thought or hotter than you thought they might be? 
 MICAH WILLIAMS: It really wasn't a secret of how good they were. Just being a basketball fan, you notice that Kentucky's been arguably one or two throughout the whole year. 
 I mean, Kentucky's obviously a good team. We just wanted to go out there kind of like Coach said, pack it in defensively. But it wasn't anything I guess special that they did. Just a few plays, few miss cues on defense, and few missed shots. 
 ADAM SOLLAZZO: Well, they're Kentucky. That's for sure. They're a great team. You know, we didn't expect them to shoot the ball as well as they did. That really caught us off guard. When Bledsoe goes 8 for 9 from the three-point line, you know it's going to be a rough night. They're a great team, and we wish the best of luck to them. 
 MODERATOR: Questions for Coach Bartow. 

 Q. You've had some success. Like you said you could point to just a year ago against a top seed and some things you did. But I guess what I'm asking is if Bledsoe makes shots like that, is there anybody you've seen all year you think can handle it? 
 COACH BARTOW: Well, there are some obviously some other great teams in the country. Kansas is super, Syracuse is super. There are other really, really good teams. Kentucky is just so big and strong and talented. Coach Cal's a great coach. And they're really good at both ends of the floor. 
 When I saw the draw I knew a lot about their talent level, and I knew a lot that they were really good offensively. I just didn't know they were so good on the defensive end. 
 You know, they were the best defensive team in the SEC. They were the best offensive team in the SEC, and they probably got the most talent in the SEC. So if they start making shots the way they made them tonight, they're obviously going to be very hard to beat. 
 And there's a lot of good teams in the tournament. Lot of teams have the capability of beating them. But if Bledsoe's on, and if their perimeter shooting is on, which is obviously one of the concerns of their team. But if they're making threes the way they made tonight, they're going to be awfully hard to beat because they're so talented. 
 They can get to the paint. They've got a great transition game, and they can really guard. They're one of the best rebounding teams in the country. So if the perimeter jump shots are going down, tare going to be pretty hard to beat. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT