US OPEN
September 7, 2001
Don Johnson
Jared Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 
 
 
Q.  Tough first-set tiebreak.  Had some set points, I gather, did you?
 
DON JOHNSON: We did.  
 
JARED PALMER:  We had a few. 
 
DON JOHNSON: We had quite a few actually.  We had one serving, and Kevin hit a great topspin lob off the backhand.  I thought I hit a decent volley.  
 
JARED PALMER:  Hit a good volley.  Hit a good lob.  
 
DON JOHNSON: Very good lob.  The other ones I didn't play supremely well on the set points. 
 
Q.  So you had the one on serve?
 
DON JOHNSON: One on serve. 
 
Q.  Which serve was it, do you remember?
 
DON JOHNSON: I was serving, I was serving.  
 
Q.  8-7?
 
DON JOHNSON: Something like that.  
 
Q.  He lobbed over  --?
 
DON JOHNSON:  (Inaudible) with the wind, too.  I was surprised.  We would have done the exact same thing, I think, if we had to do it all over.  We would have hit the same serve and hit the same volley.  
 
JARED PALMER:  Yeah.  Just hit a great shot.  
 
Q.  I know it's disappointing but you've got something big to look forward to.
 
DON JOHNSON: We do. 
 
Q.  Did your wife get here?
 
DON JOHNSON: She didn't.  My grandfather, he's on a respirator, so she found out yesterday and she had to change her flight and flew to Champagne Urbana this morning rather than come here.  
 
JARED PALMER:  Your grandfather or her grandfather? 
 
DON JOHNSON: Her grandfather. 
 
Q.  She'll be in Winston-Salem?
 
DON JOHNSON: I hope so.  
 
Q.  I'm sure it's a big disappointment.
 
DON JOHNSON: Yeah, it is a disappointment, but Jared and I, we have so much to look forward to.  We have so much to look back upon.  We had a tremendous year.  And just because we lost here at the US Open doesn't mean that we're not going to strive to get better and perform better in Winston-Salem.  We have the indoor season coming up, and of course the World Championships in India.  I don't think it's a setback.  I just think we have to keep pushing forward.  
 
Q.  How do your former partners feel about your partnership now and what's happened to you in this past year, knowing how you guys came together.
 
DON JOHNSON: (Laughing).  Want to answer?  
 
JARED PALMER:  Who are you asking?  
 
Q.  Both of you guys. 
 
JARED PALMER:  I would have no idea.  I don't know.  I have no idea how they feel. 
 
DON JOHNSON: I have actually gotten a call from my former partner, Francisco Montana.  He was very upbeat and very congratulatory towards what we've achieved.  Also at Wimbledon, after we won Wimbledon, my partner that was injured in a car crash, Piet Norval, called and was very ecstatic for both of us.  It's kind of like what they say in golf when you go out and shoot an 80 .  I don't know if you know that story.  
 
Q.  No, let's hear it.
 
DON JOHNSON: No, that's okay.  I think the story goes your friends, when you tell them you shot an 80 , 50 percent of them don't believe you and the other 50 percent are jealous.  The other 50 percent really believe you shot an 85 (laughing) but they congratulate you.  
 
Q.  Did you shoot an 80 today?
 
DON JOHNSON: No, I was happy.  We had a great time out there.  It was a little disappointing.  We were close.  We could have won the first set.  We were up a break in the third.  And those guys, we got to hand it to those guys.  They played really well.  
 
Q.  Who particularly played really well for them? 
 
JARED PALMER:  I think they both played equally well. 
 
Q.  Pretty solid? 
 
JARED PALMER:  Yeah.  They both returned pretty well and they hit some good second shots at key times.  They were both pretty good off the ground and solid at net.  I mean, a solid team.  
 
Q.  Are you going to continue to focus exclusively on doubles?
 
DON JOHNSON: Unless somebody wants to donate a wildcard to me in singles. But, yeah, Jared and I have formed a great team, and we're doing super together.  I hope we can look forward to the future here and continue to increase the talents of our team.  I think we get along well off the court, on the court, and we're not going to hang our head.  We're going to get ready for Winston-Salem and get ready for the fall. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT