PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 23, 2016
Chris Hanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
.   
 Q.  What are the emotions?  
CHRIS HANSON: Just incredible.  Played today, I think I probably had to shoot a decent score to hang on to a card, and did that.  Sort of the relief and such -- the first hour was pretty nice and the next two hours, I've never felt my heart beat like that, ever.  I don't know how to explain it other than that.  Now I've kept my card.   
 Q.  What was it like going around today?  I think you carded nine birdies, pretty incredible round, especially on the back nine.  What were the emotions like sort of coming down the home nine holes?  
CHRIS HANSON: You know, it's actually okay out there today.  I was probably more on edge yesterday and I kind of took myself out of ^ it.  ^ .  It today I was teeing off pretty much last, thinking every pound might make a difference.  I don't know how much of a difference but it certainly felt better shooting a good score and coming off the course knowing that it probably gave me a chance.   
 Q.  And you said there that you had just been anxiously sitting around.  Have you stuck around the course?  What have you done since you holed that last putt?  
CHRIS HANSON: I probably had three hours at the course just watching the TV, and everyone is doing the same thing, calculations, watching scores.  Then I got a taxi to the airport.  Overwhelming and just excited about the future.   
 Q.  And lastly, you've obviously had -- it's been a long season but you've had a couple of good results late.  I think you've had Top-10 in KLM and obviously a good finish here.  What's the season been like as a whole, obviously it's relief now at the end of it but what has it been like in the last sort of 2 to 3 weeks?  
CHRIS HANSON: It's been a fantastic year.  Up /TPHR-L the last few weeks, I've only missed a couple of putts and played really steady.  Knew probably one more cut was going to get me over the line and failed miserably in Germany and failed again last week, and didn't think I would get in.  But got in comfortably and gave me that little bit of a spark to get here and give it that last final push.  Thankfully I played nicely for two days and made the cut and the rest is history.  Just speechless, really.  It's been a long year and a lot of people have made a lot of sacrifices to help me.  It just makes you feel like it pays off.   
 Q.  Have you got plans to have a celebration?  
CHRIS HANSON: I guess my wife will probably plan something when I get home tonight.  We've got a few days at home and then me and my wife are getting away for a little break together.  So we'll go away and celebrate and come back and a few nice weeks at home before starting the 2017 season in 2016.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT