100TH OPEN DE FRANCE
June 30, 2016
Chris Hanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What do you make of 3-under par around here?
CHRIS HANSON: Absolutely delighted.  I've heard a lot about this golf course and heard it's very demanding.  So to go out and play really nice and get rewarded has been good.
I've heard it's a little bit soft over than it has been over the year, so it's probably a little bit -- probably easy is the wrong word, but it's a brutal test.
Q. You arrived when it's cold and blustery, which makes a difference with so much water in play.
CHRIS HANSON: The ball wasn't flying as far this morning with the temperatures but it's definitely warmed up now and the wind has picked up.  So it's probably a fair test over the course of the day for everyone.
Q. I take it this is a nice continuation of your form.
CHRIS HANSON: Absolutely.  We've spoke a bit now and I have been playing nicely.  The re-rack got me into Germany, and to here on Sunday night; I knew I had a good chance to get into here.  It's just nice to know that I am teeing it up in some large prize fund events which obviously give you a better chance at the Order of Merit.
Q. We never talk about money but presumably when there is a bit more money coming in, that is healthy?
CHRIS HANSON: I've played all the small events so far this year.  I play wherever I can, and to play an event of this stature and the 100th French Open is great.
Q. What do you make of playing in the 100th French Open, knowing that it has such a big field, such a number of players all around; you're looking across the range and seeing them?
CHRIS HANSON: Yeah, obviously I played The Open back in 2014 and it's probably as close as I've been to playing back in The Open.  Yeah, it's a great experience to see the big names here.  But I'm playing good enough golf and there's no reason why I can't compete.
I'm doing all the right things at the moment and I'm not getting ahead of myself.  Tomorrow is a new day and it could really bite me.  I'm playing some nice stuff, and I'll keep trying to do what works and hopefully it will be a good week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT