ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
March 28, 2008
Peter Lonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  The first 14 holes, at this point is that what you're trying to focus on a little bit more rather than the finish?   
 PETER LONARD:  It's going to have to be, otherwise I'll go and commit suicide.  Yeah, I thought the first 14 holes -- yesterday I played really well, drove it reasonably well.  15 I was a little unlucky with the bounce off the tee shot, and was probably lucky in the end to make par, so I kind of can't complain about that.  And 17 and 18 were absolutely shockers.  Maybe we'll have to go on the range and do a bit of work on it and see what happens.   
  
  Q.  Your putter wasn't behaving very well.  I mean, the greens are very true, aren't they?  If you put a good roll on them you'll get the results?   
 PETER LONARD:  Yeah, the greens are perfect.  I'd say on TV they probably look a little brown, but they roll really well.  There's not a lot of grain to really push them one way or the other.  They're a great surface.   
  
  Q.  You lost a couple of shots there at the end out to the right.  Is that what you're going to go and work on now in the practice range?   
 PETER LONARD:  Yeah, I'm going to try to straighten them out.  Maybe I'll aim 30 yards left, who knows?  It all works out in the end.   
  
  Q.  Let's start with a positive, inside of four feet on No. 1, inside of seven feet on No. 5, inside of eight feet on No. 13, birdies all over the place.  Iron play has looked really good.   
 PETER LONARD:  Yeah, I started off really well.  Hit a lot of close shots the first six holes, and I only holed one of them.  I'm thinking, this is going to be a good day.  I holed a few more later on, and unfortunately came in in an ambulance the last few.   
  
  Q.  Three bogeys coming in, 15, 17 and 18.  Two of them involved fairway bunkers where you couldn't advance very much.  Tell me about the lies.   
 PETER LONARD:  The first one was just up against the face and I had to chip it out sideways.  The one on 18 was about 80 to 100 yards off-line, so I suppose I deserved that one.  You've got to hit the fairways.  That's the name of the game.   
  
  Q.  You've still got a smile on your face, so you still feel pretty strong about your chances over the weekend.  Maybe that thing we talked about with the Masters yesterday doesn't seem so far away?   
 PETER LONARD:  I don't want to get too far ahead of myself.  Nice start to the year, it's nice to play on the weekend, and I've done a bit of work and I think it's improving.  Now if I can just hit a few fairways tomorrow and Sunday, I think I'll have a good chance.   
  
  Q.  What was going well for you out there today?   
 PETER LONARD:  My irons were good, and I gave myself a lot of opportunities, hit a lot of greens in the first 14 holes, and of course near the end there I hit it all over the shop and got what I deserved.   
  
  Q.  Was there anything that contributed to the last four holes?   
 PETER LONARD:  I'll blame my caddie, I suppose (laughter).  That's what we pay them for.  Yeah, it was all my caddie's fault (laughter).   
  
  Q.  How much did this course change?  The wind seemed to pick up the last few holes.  It was dead when you started the back nine.   
 PETER LONARD:  Well, you know, I was hitting it so far off-line it didn't really matter.  It was just a general breeze.  It moved a little bit in the air.  Like on the 18th hole when I stood up on the tee it was blowing a little left to right, and then when Charlie stood up it was blowing right to left.  So it's moving around a little bit, trying to work out which way it's going to go.  If it gets up like it did yesterday afternoon, it's a pretty tough test.   
  
  Q.  Is there something in your swing that you thought maybe went awry at the end?   
 PETER LONARD:  I don't know.  Maybe it was just a lack of ability coming through, or -- I just sort of -- I either hit it a little bit right or a little bit left and sort of got mixed up in the middle near the end there.  I tried to hit a fairway but they didn't go, so that's the way it goes.   
  
  Q.  How do you feel about your game heading into the weekend?   
 PETER LONARD:  Right now, terrible, but give me a couple hours on the range and I'll work out which way it's going, and I look forward to the weekend.   
  
  Q.  Are you pleased to be in contention heading into the weekend?   
 PETER LONARD:  Yeah, much better than sitting on the couch all weekend and drinking beer, isn't it?   
  
  Q.  Technically speaking, what will you work on on the range?   
 PETER LONARD:  Going to start with my driving, then I'll go through my irons and my chipping and my putting (laughter).  That should just about do it.  I'll be out of here about 8:00 o'clock tonight.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT