THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2007
Peter Lonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Flawless until the last hole.  That was a great round. 
 PETER LONARD:  Yeah, it was good.  I had a bit of everything.  I think I hit the ball pretty well the first 11 or 12 holes.  I got up-and-down, made some good up-and-downs.  And except for that putt on the last I would have finished it off nicely.  All in all it was reasonable. 

 Q.  How many double eagles have you made? 
 PETER LONARD:  That was my first ever.  Actually I had one in practice, but I don't think that counts. 

 Q.  It was a 3-iron? 
 PETER LONARD:  5-iron.  I had about 220, 230 to the flag, 211 to the front edge.  So the green is really hard and every day I've been on the front edge and it's rolled over the back.  I don't know if the pin got in the way and it was doing a hundred miles an hour. 

 Q.  (Inaudible.) 
 PETER LONARD:  Didn't come up with the goods, but I thought she was pretty good.  I was really happy with the way I putted.  I probably left a couple of short early and misread a couple.  But all in all I got away with a pretty good round. 

 Q.  You're one group behind tomorrow, it doesn't make any difference? 
 PETER LONARD:  I don't think it makes a great deal of difference.  It would have been nice to be in the last group.  I was trying as hard as I could to hole that last putt.  It didn't work out.  It was better than the last two years, I was sitting on my couch watching it on the tele, so we'll take it. 

 Q.  You got a jump start on 2.  That gets your round going, doesn't it? 
 PETER LONARD:  Yeah.  It didn't hurt me.  I went out with the intention there's a lot of fairways and greens, and stay out of trouble.  I felt pretty comfortable and when I holed the 5-iron, my heart rate went up a hundred beats a minute.  It was good to hit some quality shots after that, and I didn't really convert them.  All in all I was pretty happy with them. 

 Q.  The conditions aren't exactly benign.  If you're hitting it great it will give up scores, and if you're not it will kill you? 
 PETER LONARD:  Yeah, it's just one of those courses.  I think it's been like that for a long time.  You may get away with more than in the past because the rough isn't as thick as it has been in the past.  It gives you an opportunity to go at the greens. 
 When the ball is sitting funny, you can make a mistake and get in a place you can't get it up-and-down.  So it's a two-way sword, I suppose. 

 Q.  The way you're playing can you have a strategy tomorrow, be aggressive or attack this? 
 PETER LONARD:  I can't predict, really.  Now I've got to do pretty much the same as I've done -- I probably -- every day I probably played really good golf for 12 or 13 holes and played four or five ordinary holes.  So tomorrow I've got to string 18 holes together if I've got a chance. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT