THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2007
Peter Lonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Just like playing at New South Wales with trees?   
 PETER LONARD:  New South Wales with trees is a bit more rough.  No, I thought it was pretty good today.  Tee to green I played as good as -- I played really good the last month, and my chipping and putting has been absolutely horrific for a month or so.  You know, today I actually chipped and putted half decent, so I shot a good score.   
  
  Q.  And hit a lot of greens?   
 PETER LONARD:  Hit a lot of greens.  You know, I think I've been hitting a lot of greens -- Dallas I hit -- I think I hit the second most greens and missed the cut by four, and last week wouldn't have been much different.  It's just a matter of holing a couple putts and getting up-and-down when it mattered.  You know, all in all, I thought it was pretty good.   
  
  Q.  So Mrs. Lonard treated you right today?   
 PETER LONARD:  Mrs. Lonard got the punt yesterday and I brought in a new Mrs. Lonard.  I've got a mistress here (laughter).   
  
  Q.  How is it different, the new putter?   
 PETER LONARD:  I don't know, it's just a different putter.   
  
  Q.  The same length?   
 PETER LONARD:  Same length, same sort of style, but it has a different brand.   
  
  Q.  Different weight?   
 PETER LONARD:  I don't know.  I just picked it up and went, it's got to be better than the old Mrs. Lonard I've got.   
  
  Q.  Where did you find this one?   
 PETER LONARD:  She was just hanging around the edge of the putting green (laughter), where I've been trying to meet them all year (laughter).   
  
  Q.  This has been coming for a month, this form?   
 PETER LONARD:  Well, I don't know.  I mean, two weeks ago I thought I'd never play golf again the way I was putting.  You know, I just put in a lot of hard work, and today it paid off.  It might be crap tomorrow, I don't know.  But we'll find out.   
  
  Q.  Would you be happy if it blew like this for three more days, considering how you played?   
 PETER LONARD:  Yeah, I think so.  You know, I think it's going to anyway, isn't it?   
  
  Q.  It's going to blow tomorrow.   
 PETER LONARD:  That's all right.  If the rough was really, really thick, I think it would be a little tough going.  But you can hit it in the rough a little bit this week and still get away with it, whereas in the past you couldn't.   
  
  Q.  With your ball flight you must have been licking your chops to see these conditions.   
 PETER LONARD:  I was a bit concerned that I was still going to have to putt (laughter) and chip.   
  
  Q.  But it's not a putting contest today.   
 PETER LONARD:  Yeah, I don't know about that one.   
 But no, it was -- I was looking forward to coming to this course because normally the guys that hit a lot of greens and a lot of fairways do well here, I think, historically.  But I still wasn't sure whether I could putt the same way as I had been and make the cut.   
  
  Q.  One of the leaders, Rory Sabbatini, kind of has a perception of being a little bit brash and cocky.  I'm curious how you find him off the course.  What's your opinion of how he is as a person?  Obviously he's very talented as a golfer.   
 PETER LONARD:  Brash and cocky (laughter).   
  
  Q.  So we see him is as he is?   
 PETER LONARD:  Yeah, pretty much, yeah.  You know, he's obviously in form and playing good, so he's going to be hard to beat.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT