THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 30, 2017
Peter Lonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you assess that?  
PETER LONARD: Good to be in the mix finally.  It's been a while.  I felt good out there.  I probably missed a few putts early on and then of course I missed that shot on the last, which isn't going to make that dinner taste very nice tonight.  That's the way it goes.  We'll carry on and see what happens next week.   
 Q.  A great highlight on 8, did that give you a chance at maybe chasing down Bernhard?  
PETER LONARD: Gave me a sniff.  I missed a couple of real short putts on 4, 5 and 6.  Hit really good shots in there and just misread them.  Felt I was never going to hole win and then all of a sudden I holed a 30-, 40-footer, whatever.  They spark you up and get you more interested again and you're back in the game.   
I thought if I can hit some quality shots, I can put some pressure on him.  Just didn't play good enough.   
 Q.  Being in the final group of a major championship, have you exceeded your expectations this week?  
PETER LONARD: No, I don't think so.  I've been around the block a few times over the last 30 years.  I know I can play all right.  It's just a matter if the putter works or not.  I love this sort of golf.  I was really looking forward to coming here.  You know, fell a bit short but I gave it my best and that's all I can do.   
 Q.  What positives can you take going forward?  
PETER LONARD: Well, I hung in there.  I think tee-to-green I was pretty good.  The first two days, I putted beautifully.  Yesterday and today, I really struggled with the pace, with the longer putts.  Suppose I'm going to having to away and work on that, and hopefully improve next week.   
 Q.  Maybe some missed opportunities, not able to put enough pressure on Bernhard?  
PETER LONARD: Yeah, I fell a bit short.  I think probably 5 and 6, I hit a couple of close shots.  Could have realistically gone birdie, eagle and that would have gotten on the doorstep.  I misread them and didn't hit them where I wanted to and they didn't go in.  That's the way it goes.   
I had a nice one on 8 but just never really made him have to play.  He played safe golf the whole way around and he's too good for us.   
 Q.  You're new on this tour.  How do you feel about the start?  Obviously not a bad week overall?  
PETER LONARD: Yeah, not a bad week.  I had high expectations.  I was really looking forward to coming over here.  The Open Championship was always one of my favourite tournaments.  I think the last one I played in was Hoylake in 2008 maybe.   
I just love the way you have so many ways to play the game.  You can hit it on the ground and you can flop it around the greens.  There's so many shots, different ways to do the same thing.  It's great, imaginative golf and I was really looking forward to coming here.  I thought my game was pretty good.  I was probably a little short on the punch shots.  I haven't hit them for so long, I was definitely a bit rusty with them as far as control goes, but it was great to be out here.   
 Q.  We asked you about Bernhard yesterday, but when you think about somebody who has won three majors in one season, what do you think about his accomplishments on this tour so far?  
PETER LONARD: Well, he's pretty good, isn't he.  That's all you can say about him.  He's rock solid.  You have to play your best golf to get him and maybe my best golf wasn't good enough.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT