THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 23, 2005
Peter Lonard
Nick O'Hern
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Peter Lonard, Nick O'Hern, thanks for joining us.  You took care of business today over Davis Love III and Kenny Perry, two guys that have a ton of match play experience.  Nick, this is your first time playing in the Presidents Cup, do you want to start with some comments, a good day for you?

NICK O'HERN:  Yeah, a very good day for us.  We really combined well.  If I had a bad hole, he kicked in and if he had a bad hole, I kicked in.  Probably at the start of the day, nobody would have given us much of a chance against those two guys.  But we played good golf and it's nice to contribute a point to the team.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  How well do you know each other?

NICK O'HERN:  Too well, unfortunately.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Did you grow up playing golf together?
PETER LONARD:  No.  I know he's Nick O'Hern and he's from Perth, that's about it.  I've seen him play in other tournaments.  I think this is probably the first time we've ever played together, isn't it?

NICK O'HERN:  No, no.  We have played together before, the Johnnie Walker?
PETER LONARD:  Seven years ago, eight years ago.
Q.  Peter, did you do something to your wrist during the break?
PETER LONARD:  No.  My wrist just sort of locked up at the start of the week.  Never had it before and don't know.  Physio reckons it looks better if I put a little white towel around it or something, sort of like a magic sponge, run it out in football, put it on and all of a sudden you're better.  So, I don't know, it's fine.
Q.  What's the difference between yesterday and today with your game?
PETER LONARD:  Nothing.  Four ball, best ball today, foursomes yesterday, hit a few out of the trees yesterday.  So we just didn't combine well as a foursomes team I suppose.  We got our backsides kicked and deserved it.

But, you know, today is a different game, four ball best ball, and I felt like I was playing well and I practiced over the last few weeks hoping not to make an idiot of myself.
Q.  Did you feel pressure to get a point on the board?
PETER LONARD:  It's nice to get a point on the board.  I felt the same the last Presidents Cup.  I played in the first two foursomes and the first foursomes was the second foursomes I've ever played in my life.  So that was a pretty tough stage to open up on.

I think we lost those first two, but once we won one, I felt comfortable, so it's nice to get it out of the way on the second day and now looking forward to the next couple of days.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  As far as your game plan, you guys got up early and you were up pretty big, do you guys play more aggressive when you are up that big or more conservative to conserve the lead or did you not talk about it?

NICK PRICE:  I was trying to put the ball in the fairway so Pete could give it a bit of a rip.  My strength isn't length, I'm more of a consistent player and I let Pete go for it.  We both, as I say, we combined well.  Kenny Perry didn't play that well and that helped us out a bit.  I think we still shot a pretty good score and we were 1 under par.
PETER LONARD:  We didn't make any mistakes early and they made a couple of mistakes.  We were always in trouble, not exactly in trouble, but when we got around to 8, 10 and 12, the par 5s, those guys are popping them out there 310, 320 off every tee.  For them to go, I think I went birdie, birdie, eagle to get it back to    put us back to 2 up.  But going on length, it suits their game so it's important to get that start.
Q.  Kenny hit a hook on the first hole; I don't know if that set the tone a little bit.
PETER LONARD:  He hit a few hooks out there on a few of the holes, but this course, he either hooked it or he smashed it straight 320 or 350 or whatever it was, like everyone else.  You know, this course probably isn't as penalizing.  There's a lot of banks that you can run off back onto the fairway if you hit it a little wide.  He didn't play as good as he can obviously but that's the way it goes.
Q.  Did the weather delay affect you guys at all?

NICK O'HERN:  Well, I think they had just won two holes in a row, so that probably didn't come at a bad time.  Stopped their momentum, but as it turned out that didn't really work because then they made eagle on the first hole after the delay.  So that through that put the window.  A rain delay or weather delay is something you've just got to deal with and get on with it.
PETER LONARD:  It was quite a crucial time I thought.  We had just lost two and Kenny smashed it down there and he's got an iron in.  In this case Nick's played it up and Davis is probably going to knock it on in two as well and I've got, I think about 240 to the flag or something.  That's one yardage, I don't have a club for, so to come in and sit around for two hours or an hour thinking what the hell I'm going to do wasn't that enjoyable.  But, you know, he made eagle so it didn't really make much difference what we had done.
Q.  Talk about your plans for tomorrow, pairings are not officially done yet, but looking forward to tomorrow, potentially 36 holes?

NICK O'HERN:  Yeah, potentially.  I'm not quite sure what it's going to work out as.  That's Peter and    sorry, Gary rand Finchie's job, so I'm sure they will put together some good pairings.  We gave our input as to what we thought might be a good way to go.  It will be a very long and very exciting day I'm sure.
Q.  Vijay said a little while ago that if two days ago they said you would be one point ahead after two days, they would take it and run.  Do you guys agree or what are your thoughts on that?
PETER LONARD:  Well, I suppose if we were one ahead come the last day, we'd still take that, too.  Going on past experience at this course, I think usually the internationals are getting smacked by now.  So to be 1 up is a good start.  We'll press on tomorrow and play pretty good, we'll have a good chance.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Nick, Peter, thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT