THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 3, 2005
Peter Lonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PETER LONARD:  Fix my pride and I'll be okay.  Today I thought I played as good as I have.  I didn't really miss a shot up until probably 16.  I finished double on the last, sort of hurt a little bit mental wise and it's probably going to put me five or six behind the leaders coming into tomorrow as we could have been 1 or 2 or 3.  That was a little disappointing.  But if I hit it as good as I did yesterday and I can get through this back nine half decent, we'll have a chance come Sunday.
Q.  Front nine has been good to you.  Is that playing a little easier?
PETER LONARD:  Well, I don't know (laughing).  You'd have to look at the rest of the field for that one.  The front nine as far as I'm concerned is fantastic.  If I could play that four times, I'd be very happy.
Q.  Talk about your start a little bit.  What did you do?  Hit them all stiff?
PETER LONARD:  No, first I hit    I birdied the 3rd, hit it to about three feet.  4th, hit it to about five feet, six feet.

Hit it to about four feet on the next one, the par 5, whatever that is.

Hit it about eight feet on the next, two footer on the next par 5.

That was about it.  11, I hit a 2 iron to about ten feet above the hole, 15 feet above the hole.
Q.  Did you reach those par 5s on the front or were you in the rough?
PETER LONARD:  Actually you can reach them.  The 4th I    the 5th I hit a 3 wood off the tee and hit it through just into the rough down next to the water.

Next one I had about 270 to the hole and hit 3 wood into the trap, got up and down.

15, I hit a 3 iron to the middle of the green.  If you hit good drives...
Q.  (Inaudible).
PETER LONARD:  I think this is one of the best courses on Tour because it gives you    you've got your risks and rewards on the par 5s.  If you drive it good, you can make a lot of birdies and at least have chances at eagles.  It's got some par 4s that are really nasty and if you make a mistake you might double.
Q.  I've seen some big numbers on the 5s, though, too.
PETER LONARD:  Yeah, if you really try and get it close and get stubborn and it doesn't pay off the first time, you can be there for a while.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT