BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 28, 2005
Peter Lonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOE CHEMYCZ:  Congratulations on a good round today.
PETER LONARD:  Thank you.
Q.  Despite the last hole, maybe just talk about your solid play over the first three days here.
 PETER LONARD:  Well, I don't know.  I think I hit a lot of fairways, hit a lot of greens and putted well.  I played PGA West, which is obviously the harder one, I think.  I got off to a good start -- well, a poor start but made a few birdies and ended up 5-under, and these courses obviously are ones you've got to score at.  I had a lot of opportunities, just didn't always take them.
Q.  On these kinds of golf courses, I mean, are you starting out the day thinking, well, I need 5 or 6-under every day, or do you just kind of take it as it comes, the way that the courses give it to you?
 PETER LONARD:  I've never played these courses, so I've been thinking I need to shoot 5-under every day.  That's what I was thinking at the start.  If you shoot 5-under every round, if I can shoot 25, it's not going to be too far away.  If I hole a few putts, that should be possible.  Today I didn't make one birdie the first five holes, and I thought, oh, boy, after that, how am I going to catch everyone, and sure enough, got a few of them and away we went.

With these courses you've got to probably make more birdies, I suppose, but all in all -- (inaudible).
Q.  Did you get practice rounds or at least get a look at these courses earlier in the week?
 PETER LONARD:  No, I came out Monday.  I didn't actually realize this was a five-round until Monday (laughter).  I thought there were three courses and we played each of the courses once.  Tuesday I just drove around all the courses and had a look at it, and we're sort of working at it as we go.
Q.  You obviously played well last week at Buick.  It seems to have maybe carried over this week.  Can you talk a little bit about the momentum that you got?  Sunday was tough last week, but for the most part you played well and seemingly have picked it up again this week.
 PETER LONARD:  Well, I think last year I didn't play very well.  The end of last year I played pretty good.  I had a lot of confidence coming into this year and it didn't go that well, and of course last week I had three rounds where I played well, but even in the last round I had opportunities to play well, as I pretty much played as bad as I could -- well, shot the worst score that I could have under the circumstances, so that wasn't too bad.

This week I don't think I'm like flushing the ball, I don't think I'm hitting it fantastic, but I'm hitting it pretty consistent.  When I feel like it's going to go right to left, I hit it right to left.  I think mentally I'm pretty good.  I think I feel pretty comfortable.  I'm happy to be the one you want to talk to, I suppose, and I'll just keep on.
Q.  So no hangover effect from last week's round in terms of lack of confidence or anything like that then?
 PETER LONARD:  Oh, no.  Well, disappointed obviously.  I think on any Tour getting yourself into contention as many times as possible -- last week was probably the first time I got in contention for two years, I think, in America anyway, so I just think if I'm in contention two out of the first three tournaments in America at the start of the year, well, I'm doing all right.  If I just keep playing around I'm going to get there.
Q.  How long have you felt like you were ready to win on this Tour?  Did it take you any time to get acclimated or learn to travel or anything, or did you feel like when you first got over here you were ready to go?
 PETER LONARD:  I think when I first got over here I was ready to go.

I think the first year I made a lot of cuts, so that was a reasonable year for the first time.

Second year I didn't do any good, and then last year I just played terrible.  I've also had a few injuries and stuff, which held me back, I suppose, for seven or eight weeks.

This year I played by the book, ended up really well, playing hard, practicing hard, and now I feel like it's all come together and I'm looking forward to the rest of the year.
Q.  Do you like this kind of scoring spree kind of tournament where you need to make a lot of birdies?  Does that suit your game?
 PETER LONARD:  Traditionally not.  If anything the top courses are probably where I shoot the best scores.  But at the moment, I feel comfortable.  I don't feel that much pressure or whatever.  Before I got here I was thinking the scores that they shot were just out of control, but when you see the courses and the see the condition of the greens, if you putt well, you can score like that.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Peter, we appreciate your time.
PETER LONARD:  No problem.  Thanks, mate.  Cheers.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT