THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 28, 2017
Peter Lonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PETER LONARD: I was just holding on the whole day pretty much I think.  It was really difficult to get the ball close, even if you did get it on the greens.  Of course with the wind, the rain squalls, made it pretty difficult to hole some putts.  I was hoping to get it in a couple over.   
I was sort of -- I was a couple over with probably four to go, and 15, 16, 17 are probably the toughest, the tougher holes on the course, if you stay away from 1, 2, 3, 4.  I would have loved to have just get through that with one bogey maybe and then birdie the last.  But it didn't happen.   
If the wind stays up, it's still going to be a reasonable score I think.  It's playing pretty tough.   As long as you can stay somewhere around par I think coming into Sunday, you'll be in with a shout.   
 Q.  Would you say the conditions today was tougher than yesterday?  
PETER LONARD: Yeah, I think it was.  We played in the afternoon yesterday.  It was windy but it wasn't -- we didn't have that continuous rain that we had the first four or five holes.  After the first four or five holes, I thought, this day is never going to end.  We'll all shoot in the hundreds.   
But it sort of cleared up a little bit, and maybe played a little easier, but into the wind is still three-, four-club wind, and if you hit it high, it's probably even more.   
 Q.  Teeing off on 14, you hit the ball quite low and straight.  Do you think playing in strong winds suits the way you hit the ball?  
PETER LONARD: I think the fact that the course is a little wet compared to what it normally would, doesn't help the flight the ball that much.  But I like playing in the wind and hitting it low.  In Australia, we all live on the coast somewhere, and all our golf courses, we pretty much play in the wind.  It's just when you add the rain that I don't really like.   
 Q.  And the talk of heavy rain this afternoon, you could be sitting pretty going into the weekend.  
PETER LONARD: Yeah, as long as I'm somewhere near par, I would have really like to get a little closer to par, because I think probably par, 1-over, or someone shoots a really good score will probably be leading.  If you're within four shots come the weekend, you've usually got a good chance.   
 Q.  Your first tournament, and the Senior Open, as well, it must be exciting going into the weekend being in the mix?  
PETER LONARD: Yeah, fantastic.  I have some great memories of playing the actual Open.  My first Open was at Troon and I was lucky enough to play with Norman on the Saturday and Watson on the Sunday, and it's something that I'll never forget.  I'll always love coming back and playing this style of course, because you really have to think your a around.   
Sometimes 2-over is a great round.  You just have to deal with it when the conditions are bad.  You know, I was really looking forward to this, hoping for a little bit more sun, but so far, so good.  It's been great.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT