WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 3, 2008
Peter Lonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PETER LONARD: You shoot 4- or 5-under on the front nine, there's still a chance here. So I did what I wanted to do, hit a lot of good shots. The back nine I played really good, too, I hit every green, I think, except for the last, and just ran the edge and couldn't get the suckers in the hole. All in all, it was pretty good, you know.  
  
  Q. You knew with ideal conditions you'd have to go real low, didn't you?  
 PETER LONARD: Yeah, I was thinking -- I said to Scottie before we got off, maybe 10, and it would have to be 11 or 12. But you never know, on Sundays when people start chasing each other and they start putting pressure on each other, sometimes they don't go that much forward. It was a perfect opportunity to shoot a score and leave it there and say, okay, there it is, and unfortunately I wasn't good enough.  
  
  Q. Good confidence booster for next week?  
 PETER LONARD: Yeah, the rest of the year, too. I think as far as next week, we've got that FedExCup coming up, and I'm starting to play good.  
  
  Q. What are your plans after this?  
 PETER LONARD: Yeah, I'll do my washing, pretty exciting stuff, and I might have a few drinks tonight once I get to Detroit maybe. I don't know.   
  
  Q. Fourth here last year, so maybe two Top 5s in a row. Something about this course, you've finally got the hang of it?  
 PETER LONARD: Yeah, maybe I hit it straighter than I used to. Maybe I'm smarter. I don't know, it's definitely not smarter.   
 Yeah, it's a good course. It pays if you hit the ball good and you hit it pretty straight. You can shoot a score around here. If you're hitting it off line it really kills you. Lucky enough the past couple years I've hit it pretty straight.   
  
  Q. 66 today, I take it you're very pleased?  
 PETER LONARD: Yeah, reasonably pleased. I got off to a straight start on the front nine holes and gave myself a perfect opportunity to shoot a score. The back nine I played really well, hit a lot of good putts and I didn't hole any. So nine straight pars to finish sort of killed it a little bit. But normally 66 on this track is pretty good.  
  
  Q. You and I had a few chances to talk this week, and I get a feeling that your play this week was a sort of resurgence for you?  
 PETER LONARD: Yeah, I think ever since I did my back in probably a couple months ago, I came back, I started to feel like I was starting to play really well and then I missed three cuts on the trot and then come here. I still feel like I've been practicing hard and I'm enjoying golf more than I ever have, and now I'm doing all the right things. I was feeling like I was on the right track, but of course you've got to put the scores on the board to be on the right track. So maybe it's a good start.  
  
  Q. But you're feeling well, you're fit now?  
 PETER LONARD: Yeah, I feel good, apart from being old. I'm ready to go.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT