AT&T NATIONAL
June 27, 2013
Ben Kohles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   69 in round 1, are you happy with that start? 
BEN KOHLES:   Very, yeah.   I played pretty well today.   Birdied the 1st hole and then kind of got off to a sluggish start.   Wasn't hitting any fairways the next couple of holes.   Then kind of found my swing a little bit.   I don't think I missed a fairway coming in.   That really helped.   I was able to make a few birdies.

Q.   Course is pretty soft.   How is it playing?   Is it longer than you expected? 
BEN KOHLES:   Yeah, the greens are very receptive.   Then again, that means the fairways are as well.   You're not getting much roll on the drive.   It's playing pretty long out there.   With the soft greens, if you can get in the fairway, you can take it up.

Q.   You showed a little frustration out there on a few shots.   Is it just tough conditions? 
BEN KOHLES:   Yeah, it's really just a premium on hitting those fairways.   The first five, six holes, I was in the rough a couple times and couldn't even really get to the green on some of those longer par 4s.   If you can get the ball on the fairway, then you can have a chance.

Q.   You made some nice putts coming home.   Putter working all day? 
BEN KOHLES:   Yeah, I putted well today.   Been working pretty hard on that.   Putted pretty well last week even though I missed the cut.   So I'm able to see the hole.   

Q.   Little bit of a rough start? 
BEN KOHLES:   Yeah, I birdied the 1st hole, so it was a pretty good start to get off to.   Kind of, I missed the fairway on 2.   I had a great shot just over the green, then didn't get up and down.   Then the next three holes I missed the fairway and wasn't able to find the green.   So pretty tough up and down.   I think I had one up and down, but, yeah, it's just you can hit those fairways, you can have some luck out here.

Q.   Have you played here before? 
BEN KOHLES:   No, I have not.   Tuesday was the first time I played here.

Q.   What's your overall impression?   
BEN KOHLES:   It's awesome.   It's a great golf course.   I heard a lot of the guys talking about how it's like U.S. Open kind of conditions, which I haven't played in.   Kind of like Merion was, just really premium on hitting those fairways.

Q.   Have you found that, when you hit fairways, that's when you scored on the back end?
BEN KOHLES:   Yeah.   I had a couple of chances coming in there, but overall, yeah, very pleased out there. 

Q.   Coming from being a UVA product in this area ‑‑ I guess coming back to this area, so to speak, how's that been?   Were there some squad members in the crowd today? 
BEN KOHLES:   There were a couple.   A couple of my former teammates arrived here in Washington.   Good to see them.   Not too far away from Charlottesville.   It's good to be back in this area.

Q.   I saw some Virginia Tech‑‑ Johnson Wagner, Brendon de Jonge, a couple of Hokies out there.   So the Hokies versus the Wahoos? 
BEN KOHLES:   I think me and Driscoll are the only Wahoos in the field.   We've got to hopefully take them down. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT