TAMPA BAY CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY EVERBANK
March 16, 2013
Ben Kohles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You still managed even when they were really firm and fast to make a couple of putts on the way in, a couple of birdies in the Snake Pit, that's nice.   
BEN KOHLES:   Yeah, it was a tough little finish to end up.   Hit a good putt.   Just didn't go in.   But right where I want to be going into tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   When you think about where you were a year ago, playing in collegiate events, pretty good stuff?  
BEN KOHLES:   Yeah, really blessed and thankful to be here.   Playing good right now, so hopefully just going to take that into tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Spike mark on 18?  
BEN KOHLES:   No.   Greg missed it a little low, I might have played a touch more break.   Hit a good putt.   Maybe just a touch too firm.   
   
 Q.   How tough is it getting out there?  
BEN KOHLES:   It's getting tough.   It's playing really firm and fast.   You've got to really be in the fairway coming into these greens.   You've got to play careful coming into the greens.   
   
 Q.   Your position for tomorrow, a bit of an unknown on the PGA TOUR how you're going to respond, but how do you feel?   
BEN KOHLES:   I feel great.   I feel great.   You know, my first two Web.coms, I took the W, so I've been in that position before.   
So just kind of treat it like that, go out there tomorrow and just keep playing like I'm playing and hopefully it will pan out.  
   
 Q.   What did you draw from those two wins?  
BEN KOHLES:   Just know I can do it coming down the stretch.   One time I was‑‑ I think the first one, I was a little behind with a couple holes to play and hit some really good shots coming in and was able to make some putts.   
The next one, got off to a lead in the back nine and was able to hole it.   So real confident where I'm at and how I'm playing.   
   
 Q.   A little bit of an indifferent start to your 2013 season, what's been going on, anything in particular?   
BEN KOHLES:   You know, been playing okay.   Just it's not like it's far off.   It's just, you know, there's one round, a tournament, where you've just got to, you don't have it that day and you've just got to really manage your score and manage something right around par, and maybe just let it slip a little bit.   
But overall, pretty pleased with how I'm playing so far and hopefully can take it to it tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   What's been different this week, do you think?   
BEN KOHLES:   Nothing really, actually.   I played great last week.   Hit it really good.   Just my putter wasn't there.   But my coach, Todd Anderson, was down here earlier this week, these first couple practice rounds and got me straightened away and got me feeling good about tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Seeing the way Patrick has been playing and Jordan, that has to give you a lot of confidence, you've beat those guys in the past and now they are doing well out here.   You have to feel like you can duplicate the same thing.   
BEN KOHLES:   Absolutely.   I'm just going to go out there tomorrow and play my game, not try to do anything special.   Just take it one shot at a time and see how it ends up.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT