THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 9, 2000
Casey Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CASEY MARTIN: I missed birdie on 4, pretty close I was a little bit bummed out, but I
hit another good shot into 6 about, I'd say, it was about seven, eight feet, made that.
Hit it to about six or seven feet again on 7, made that. Hit a really good 3-wood, just
caught up short of the green. I was debating between chip and putting; chipped it up there
about five feet; wasn't a great chip, made that. Then I made a long putt on 12, made about
35 feet. I hit a good wedge shot to about three feet; then I 2-putted that on 16. That was
about it.

Q. How do you feel about the way?

CASEY MARTIN: I played great. I really did. Believe it or not, wasn't like spectacular.
I just hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens, and made some putts. Felt good. It was a
solid round as I played in a long time.

Q. You said the course seems to be made for you?

CASEY MARTIN: Well, yeah, there is not a hill to be found and I was just thinking, that
was about as pain-free round in a long time. Probably just because I am not standing, you
know, kind of uneven lies, I remember I had a really tough time in L.A., my leg was
horrible. I was hitting shots off big ravines, hitting really funky shots and really hurt
my leg, but out here, it is so flat it wasn't a problem; hit a lot of fairways; wasn't in
a lot of precarious positions, but even so, there really aren't that many hills. Around
the greens it is not a problem at all, like the bunkers are really flat. It is pretty
nice. I kind of like it.

Q. It is nice to be in here because of the round you shot rather than everything else?

CASEY MARTIN: Certainly, yeah. I'd much rather talk about playing good golf than how I
get around, but I understand, I mean, I am not bummed out about having to come in for
other reasons, but this is better.

Q. How are the galleries? 

CASEY MARTIN: Great... There weren't people out there today, but the galleries on a
whole have been wonderful. I haven't had one problem. I get a lot of support from people,
so it is great. It is hard for me because I get asked for a lot of autographs; people root
me on because it is hard, I can't respond to everyone. I always feel like a jerk when I
walk away. That is my only complaint. But other than that, it has been great.

Q. Talk about the state of your game in general coming into this year.

CASEY MARTIN: Well, this year I have hit it really well. I have hit it as well as I
have really for an extended period of time as far as driving it and iron-play. My putting
is starting to come around. Last week I putted well. Then putted well today. Put those
together and you are going to play well. Just got to work on a few things but really I
feel good about it and hopefully I will just stay in good rhythm and continue to play
well.

Q. Anything you will do different tomorrow?

CASEY MARTIN: No, I don't think so. I just -- no. I am not thinking too much which
hopefully is the reason I am playing well. My mind is pretty clear. Hopefully I will get
in position where I am in contention and I will have a challenge to keep it simple but I'd
like that.

Q. Why now, why are you hitting it so well?

CASEY MARTIN: I have been hitting it well for a couple of months now.

Q. I am assuming you don't -- you can't practice a whole lot?

CASEY MARTIN: I don't. This winter I didn't practice a whole ton, but worked on a few
things that I knew I needed to get better. It's really helped. I am just swinging well. I
don't know. Hopefully it will continue, but I have been real pleased. This whole year I
have really hit a lot of good shots.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT