U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 1998
Casey Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CASEY MARTIN:  I don't believe so. 
 
CASEY MARTIN:  What would you like to know? 
 
CASEY MARTIN:  First of all, it was overwhelming, the support I got from the fans out there.  I have to admit, I was almost crying on the first tee when they gave me that ovation.  It meant a lot.  That was fun all day.  Actually started playing pretty well; made a couple birdies to turn it even.  I actually got kind of cold.  Temperature dropped quite a bit. I just didn't hit it well at all on the backside.  Had to scramble around.  I am grateful to shoot what I did, but I know I should have had a better round. 
 
CASEY MARTIN:  That was miserable.  Quite a while. I don't know a time.  Probably 15 minutes.  Maybe it was the same on No. 3.  It makes it really hard to -- when you have been out there five hours, and it is cold, and you have got to play 17, and you have got to wait 15 minutes, that's not ideal, but everyone had to do it. 
 
CASEY MARTIN:  Yeah, fortunately, I don't tee off 'til 10:50.  I will get a good night sleep and get to it tomorrow. 
 

Q.  (inaudible)
 
CASEY MARTIN:  Kind of had a few bogeys going. Looks like I was never going to make a par.  Then I made a few nice saves starting on 12, which was good because I wasn't hitting it my best. 
 

Q.  You have been making history all year.  Can you just talk about the significance of going out, being the first player to ride in a US Open today?
 
CASEY MARTIN:  You know, I don't look at it that way.  And I admit it saddens me a little bit, I never wished to have to ride to play golf.  It hurts a little bit to have to get in the cart and play.  But at the same time, I am grateful for it.  I need it.  I just don't look at it as that -- you know, as that big a deal like I am making history  although I know I am.  But it just doesn't really cross my mind too much. 
 

Q.  Did the darkness have anything to do with the bogeys on the last two holes?
 
CASEY MARTIN:  I'd say, no, but I mean, I am sure it could have an effect.  It was hard to see.  I didn't hit many good shots those the last two holes, but I am not going to blame it on the darkness.  But at the same time, it would have been nice to see better too. 
 

Q.  Could you elaborate on your thoughts on the first tee finally making it to a US Open? 
 
CASEY MARTIN:  Yeah, I was just trying not to think too much because like I say, it was -- I wanted to keep my thoughts pretty simple.  But you know, when they announced me, the people just roaring like they did, it was flattering, I admit.  I just had to get up there and hit it quick before I thought about what was going on. 
 

Q.  How close were you bumping that marshal?  Did you see that guy?  On TV it looked as if a marshal was right in front of you and stepped out of the way.
 
CASEY MARTIN:  I don't think it was as close as it my have looked. 
 

Q.  Was there any awkward moment with the cart today, getting through the crowds or anything?
 
CASEY MARTIN:  It was quite good.  They have a roving marshal out there with me, makes my life a lot easier and it was pretty uneventful. 
 

Q.  You said that you'd be disappointed if you didn't make the cut.  That is one of your goals.  Going into tomorrow, what does mentality have to be with playing and making that --
 
CASEY MARTIN:  I think the first day jitters are kind of gone.  I didn't play great and yet I still, you know, I am there.  I am not out of the tournament.  So I am going to go and try and have a good round tomorrow.  I think I can play really well and I expect to play really well tomorrow. 
 

Q.  Did you make any eye contact with your folks sitting up there?
 
CASEY MARTIN:  Sure, I have seen my family around quite a bit. 
 

Q.  Behind the tee?
 
CASEY MARTIN:  I don't believe it was my family. They were standing on the left.  But I made eye contact with a friend, I think. 
 

Q.  Did the emotion on the first hole, as you got around the course, were you kind of keyed up most of the way or did things change?
 
CASEY MARTIN:  I was pretty excited.  I admit I feel bad when I make a 4-footer for bogey and they just cheer like crazy and someone in my group might make a par save and it is  a courtesy clap.  It is great for me, but I admit I am a little, you know, self conscious about that getting extra loud roar.  But at the same time, it is pretty fun when I made a few birdies that I got some loud roars and that was fun. 
 

Q.  (inaudible)
 
CASEY MARTIN:  It is nothing too tricky out there. You just got to hit the fairways because if you don't you are dead.  Thank you, guys. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT