U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 1998
Casey Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MIKE BUTZ:  We have decided over the last couple of days working with Casey and trying to work with Pride Healthcare on the cart that we have, the single-rider cart that they have provided for us and for Casey to use that from a safety standpoint, especially from a spectator-safety standpoint we think that we are better off providing the regular traditional golf cart for Casey and we just think that that is the right thing to do.  The question was, will he still be inside the ropes and the answer to that is:  Yes.  I mean, frankly that was the real reason why we were trying to make the single-rider cart work, as well as we tried to keep him in the playing field as much as we could and the maneuverability of a traditional golf cart through the golf course and, kind of, in the playing field through the exits that the players will be walking from, exits from greens to the next tees, it is a little difficult in a regular golf cart.  That is, basically, what we are going to have to work on kind of overnight and kind of look at some of those spots.

CASEY MARTIN:  That is correct.  I won a Nike event earlier this year, the first one which exempted me through the first round of qualifying for the Open, and then I was able to get through last week in Cincinnati, and I did my very best to give it away.  But fortunately, I made a nice putt in a playoff to be here.  I am just thrilled to be here.  It a dream come true.

CASEY MARTIN:  It is amazing how things happen.  I would have never dreamt it.  After kind of going through the ordeal with the PGA TOUR I really just didn't -- you know, have any expectations to play in something like this and really wasn't going to pursue it anymore besides the PGA TOUR, and I just like to say -- extend my thanks to the USGA for providing me with a golf cart and I have just have been treated so well from the USGA here this week.  It has been overwhelming.  I just want to first and foremost say thank you to them for how I have been treated. 

CASEY MARTIN:  Actually, I got to play here last week too. I took the Cleveland Nike off and came out and played Thursday and Friday here.  And it was really -- it was quite wet.  It was foggy and the course was extremely difficult and played the last two days as well.  It has firmed up quite a bit.  It is playing a little bit shorter but it has also firmed up enough around the greens that it has become more difficult.  So it is kind of half a one.  But it is great.  It is just a fabulous golf course and the condition is just immaculate and it is everything you dream as far as playing in a US Open.


Q.  Casey, I know you have played with Tiger and Joel this morning sort of reunion of your Stanford partners?

CASEY MARTIN:  You bet.


Q.  What has the general reaction been from other PGA players with your appearance here?

CASEY MARTIN:  It has been great.  I have met a lot of the guys and, without exception, everyone has been just extremely kind to me and extending me support.  It has been great.  It has been a great experience.  It is hard to believe it is me sitting there and talking to the great players of the world, and they know my name before I even, you know, know theirs.  That is not true.  But, it has been a great experience.  I am just thrilled.  Yeah.


Q.  Tom Watson earlier today said while he has compassion for you, he still doesn't think that a cart belongs, especially in a major like this.  What would you say to him, and also how it is struggling around these hills where you don't get to ride the cart up like at 18 and stuff like that.  Are you concerned at all about some of those steep inclines?

CASEY MARTIN:  Yeah, there are a lot of -- I have to do a lot of walking around here just logistically.  I knew that.  Like I say, it is just I am willing to do it.  I am running on adrenaline right now.  I am going to play no matter what. It is going to work out.  I just think fine. Even though I have to walk more than I normally would, for the U.S. Open, like I say, I would do everything.


Q.  The Watson response.

CASEY MARTIN:  Oh, that I understand.  I understand his viewpoint.  And, I don't hold anything against him for having that angle.  I don't agree with him.  But at the same time, you know, it is not like I don't like the guy.


Q.  You have said all along, you would prefer to play in a regular cart, using regular carts, so this is -- does this decision make you happy?

CASEY MARTIN:  It does, and I'd like to explain  why.  I think the single-cart ride is a great idea.  I think it's got a lot of positive.  I just don't think it is quite there yet.  It's got a few kinks and few things that makes it difficult to drive, especially when there is thirty-seven thousand people, that is a new experience for me.  And it is just not quite to the point where I would be confident yet to be driving.  It nothing against the cart itself or the idea because I think it's got a lot of positives, and someday, I'd like to really embrace it because I think it would be great.  As it is right now, I just think it's got a ways to go, so I am excited that they give me the regular cart because it will kind of make my time at the Open just a little bit easier.


Q.  You are playing on a whole another level this week. It is the U.S. Open.  Talk about your golf game; what you are doing to prepare compared to a Nike event or something.

CASEY MARTIN:  I can't say I am doing anything different.  I am just trying to relax and have fun and you know, enjoy it.  Because you never know if I will get to have an experience like this again.  And so I am just having a great time playing with Tiger and Joel today was a blast. Just kind of soaking it all up.  I am not grinding too hard on my game.  I am trying to get prepared -- don't get me wrong, but it is not like I am too stressed out about it right now.

CASEY MARTIN:  I did, actually.  I talked a big game before I went out there with Tiger.  We played a Skins game. I was able to beat him a little bit.  He has yet to pay me, so, he owes me.

CASEY MARTIN:  Absolutely.  I expect it.


Q.  Could you talk about your ordeal yesterday with the cart; what that was like and which holes here are you going to have to walk or ride?

CASEY MARTIN:  The ordeal yesterday, just the cart had a few mechanical or electronic problems; wasn't responding quite right.  And, you know, it was, I guess, a little frustrating at the time because I had gone through this a little bit the week before.  But, it is nothing personal against the company or anything.  I just think, you know, down the road it will be a great device.  It is just maybe not quite there yet.


Q.  (inaudible)

CASEY MARTIN:  Not any particular holes, just around the greens, it is not really feasible to have a cart like right off the green there and so what I end up doing, I drive up maybe 30 yards short and they have an official there that  takes the cart over to the next tee box for me which has been a great, great addition; takes a lot off my mind to have him take care of that.  It is working out great so far.


Q.  Following up on that, do you know the logistics of what will happen with a larger cart; how will that make life better for you and will you have sort of a cart-caddie in that situation?

CASEY MARTIN:  I don't believe I will have a cart-caddie.  He will just take it from the green to the tee box.  Just so I don't have to worry about getting through all the people to do that which has been a great assistance. And, only thing that makes it -- the traditional cart is just a little easier to drive and I don't have to think so much about driving it.  It also got a brake, a normal brake that I can apply.  Whereas, the other one, it has an automatic lock brake and it is kind of hard to maneuver sometimes.


Q.  There has been a lot of talk among some of the players about not you so much, but about the tire tracks and so forth.  Do you have any driving plan for where you drive and where you don't drive?  Have you been advised on that?

CASEY MARTIN:  Yeah, I have been advised on that.  I am only going to drive only in the fairway, like I am not going to be doing culy-cues in the rough to matt it down, although I'd like to mat it down a little bit.  I just stay in the fairway maybe 30, 40 yards short of the green.  The official will kind of work it through the rough and, you know, obviously you don't want too many carts driving through the rough to get a better lie or a worse lie for a competitor.  But, I really don't think it is going to be a problem.  It shouldn't be a problem.


Q.  You mentioned 30,000 fans.  Is that distracting to you?  Does it help your game; hurt your game?

CASEY MARTIN:  You know, before this year I would have said it would have been hardest thing to deal with.  I have kind of getting used to it being in the public eye a little bit although I haven't played in front of this many people still, I am more comfortable playing in front of people now.  Really I kind of look forward to it.  It doesn't bother me like it probably could have a year ago.


Q.  There has been so much conversation about the lawsuit.  As you look back now you have had a chance to walk away and reflect a little bit.  The life lessons, what have you learned from all of that?  There will to be so many wrenching times what did you take away?

CASEY MARTIN:  Main thing I took away, I am a Christian, and I have just been trusting Jesus with my life. He has been a totally faithful friend for me; provided for all my needs, what I take away from this is how good -- he has just been faithful to me, to provide for me.  And, that is just the main lesson I have learned. 


Q.  This single-rider cart, is that safe on uneven terrain?

CASEY MARTIN:  I think so.  The one I had today, you know, it definitely becomes an issue, I think, on severe terrain; especially when I take the accelerator off, it automatically locks up.  I had an instance where I was going downhill on an angle.  I had to kind of slow down or take the gas off so I wouldn't annoy another player and the thing locked up.  I ended up doing a 180 down the hill because I had no control over it.  In situations like that, if they can iron that out, I think it would be fine.  But as it is, it is just not quite ready, I don't think, for a golf course.  Although, I think it is fairly close.  So that would be my comment on that.


Q.  Do you have pain in your right leg all the time you are walking?

CASEY MARTIN:  I have pain -- I have lot of pain in my leg.  I am not going to say all the time.  I exper -- but it consistently is painful when I am walking over a period of time, let's say, six months where I am playing golf everyday then yes, I have significant pain.  However, today, when I have been riding for the last about nine months or ten months straight just riding and I have to say my leg has gotten a lot better and a lot of that pain I have that I have been experiencing over the past couple of years has been definitely been reduced due to riding.


Q.  I wonder if you could just articulate your position one more time in response to those professionals like Tom Watson and Scott Simpson earlier today who say that walking is an integral part of the game.

CASEY MARTIN:  I guess walking would be only integral inasmuch it would test the fatigue part or test that nature of the game.  And, I think I fulfill that even with a golf cart.  The things I go through, you know, I think I fulfill that part of a fatigue factor.  So, I just -- I know it just enables me to play.  I have experienced what it is like to play golf with a healthy leg or not healthy leg, but at least a leg that has felt all right in the past.  And, I know what it is like playing in a golf cart with the condition I have now and I know I am not at an advantage physically over anybody.  I think I can pursue this in my mind's eye not thinking that I have a couple shot advantage over anyone. Whether they agree with me or not, that is fine.  I understand if they don't.  But at the same time, you know that is how I feel, and fortunately that is how the courts felt also.


Q.  How much has the cart issue distracted you from preparing for the tournament and your expectations this week?

CASEY MARTIN:  Really hasn't distracted me.  This  has been pretty much what it has been like every week - certainly not to this degree - but everywhere I go in the papers, it is the cart.  And, after six months of that, you are pretty much desensitized to it.  Just kind of like, you have your answers, you just go and you don't let it bother you.  As for my expectations, I have never played in a PGA event and I have never played in a US Open event.  So, obviously I don't want to get too worked up.  But I feel like I am hitting it well and I really feel this suits my game quite well.  I am excited that I am here.  I think I can do well.  I don't know how well that means, but I do think I can play well here.


Q.  You said it suits your game quite well; could you elaborate?

CASEY MARTIN:  On the Nike Tour you play a lot of shorter courses where you have to hit a lot of wedges.  That is particularly not my strength.  I like to hit a lot of mid- to long irons.  That is kind of why I have an advantage over another guy.  On the U.S. Open you have to tee off a lot of 3-woods, 2-irons.  When you do that you are going to have a lot of 5-, 6-, 4-irons into greens, so I feel comfortable doing that.


Q.  So much has been made about Tiger Woods broadening the popularity of golf.  With the crowds you have attracted on the Nike Tour and, say, yesterday, do you feel you also have a similar effect on the game?

CASEY MARTIN:  I don't think I have an effect on the game like Tiger does.  I think there have been a segment of the people maybe perhaps people with disabilities or something that look up to me now or maybe have become more interested in golf. But, I am not going to compare my influence on the game to something like Tiger.


Q.  Casey, obviously the people who are supportive of your expressing that out in galleries, the critics, are they  -- do you hear criticism at all?

CASEY MARTIN:  I have not heard one criticizing word since I have been here.


Q.  What is your opinion of the 17th hole and what kind of effect do you think that hole will have on the outcome of the championship?

CASEY MARTIN:  That is a great hole.  Obviously it is not a par 4, but at the same time, everyone got to play that hole.  And, whether you name it a par 2 or par 6 it really doesn't matter. It is just a hole and it is a great one.  You know, it is extremely long for a par 4, but at the same time, you know, it doesn't really matter.


Q.  Before this year you said that you had never met anybody with your disease, but you have met quite a few  people.  What impact has that had on yourself and some of the people that you have met along the way?

CASEY MARTIN:  One positive out of this whole ordeal is I have met, maybe, like ten people with my same condition; that has been great, just to see them.  Just to see someone that kind of struggles with the same thing.  And few times peoples' condition has been worse than mine so just try to give them encouragement and try to see that with God, anything is possible, and to go for it.  It has been fun telling people that and hopefully it has some positive effect.


Q.  Could you reflect on what life was like for you and Tiger and Joel about two or three years ago?

CASEY MARTIN:  Sure.  When I was in school I never played with Joel.  He was a year too young, but I played one year with Tiger and that was a blast because we had won the NCAA championship the year before Tiger came and when he showed up, we had kind of the media attention from winning it and then having him be there was just amazing.  So I got to see what he dealt with on a daily basis and obviously he deals with it even more now.  But, he just handles it great.  Dealing with this kind of media attention day after day, year after year, can be grueling, and he does a great job.  It was neat to see someone handle it.  You can learn from it, I guess.


Q.  You had past up several opportunities for exemptions on the Tour.  Is it accurate to say that you wanted, like, in this situation, you wanted to earn your way into your first PGA TOUR event on your own?

CASEY MARTIN:  I guess you can say that.  I am excited that I made it here on my own, but at the same time, I will be taking an exemption in two weeks to the Greater Hartford Open and I am just excited about doing that.  I really didn't try to make any -- too big of a statement about me not taking exemptions.  I just didn't feel I was ready and I didn't want to deal with the media crush right then.  I wanted some experience and I wanted to get playing on the Nike Tour first.  And, this summer hopefully I will play once or twice on the PGA TOUR and taste that.  I am excited about playing in the GHO and hopefully I will do well there.


Q.  You just said you didn't know if you would have this chance again.  Is that because you don't know if you would still be playing at a high level or still be playing period?

CASEY MARTIN:  Like I say, I have no idea.  I mean, ten months ago I would have no idea that I would be sitting here in front of you.  And, so, I don't know what the future holds.  I really don't.  Whether I will keep playing well and make it a consistent habit to be out here or not or if my leg will hold up, I don't know, so that is why I said that.


Q.  Why did you decide on Hartford this particular  time?  Do you expect anymore exemptions and can you just kind of put the last six months in perspective what it has been like?

CASEY MARTIN:  I chose the GHO for a couple of reasons.  First, I understand it is a great tournament and it worked into my schedule pretty well.  Second of all, Hartford Life is one of my sponsors.  They have treated me great and they are obviously right their in heart so it worked out great to be right there:  For the last six months my life has changed quite a bit.  I went from just kind of struggling to stay in this game and not knowing if I could keep playing.  And, now like I say, I am sitting here in front you in the U.S. Open. Needless to say, my life has taken a big turn and it has been a real blessing.  I am living a dream right now, I guess.


Q.  Can you ever imagine the day when you come in here and you are just another golfer; how much are you looking forward to that day if it ever came?

CASEY MARTIN:  Hopefully that day will come.  And, that is going to happen because of playing well.  And if that does happen, that will be great.  If it doesn't, I understand why.  And I just accept that.  I am grateful for the opportunity to be out here competing.


Q.  Do any of the players that you are playing with ever give you a ribbing about the cart?

CASEY MARTIN:  Yes.


Q.  What kind of things do they say?  Secondly, what was it like on 18 coming up there hitting those good shots?

CASEY MARTIN:  Yeah, I have got a little flak about the little cart and, nothing, I mean, I can't handle.  But, just a lot of players wondering why I have to use that instead of just a traditional golf cart.  So, I have got a lot of that.  But, coming up the 18th hole was wonderful.  I mean, there must have been 10, 15,000 people on that hole, and I hit a good shot in there so it was fun to he hear the crowd roar.  That is stuff that I dreamt about ten years ago or even years ago, so, it is a dream come true.


Q.  Along the same lines, how much do you look forward to when the cart is no longer in issue Casey Martin the golfer is all the questions that are asked at these press conferences?

CASEY MARTIN:  You know, like I say, I don't know if that will ever be.  By the nature of the way things are going, I just don't know -- I will always probably be known as the person in the golf cart.  I can handle that.  Obviously, I prefer not to be known that way, but at the same time, you know, that is not a big deal.  So.....


Q.  You said that everyone has been extremely kind to you.  Does that include players that have been outspoken  against you or --

CASEY MARTIN:  I have seen a few of those players that were outspoken and they didn't -- I am not going to name names -- but they didn't like go out of their way to say hi or anything.  But, at the same time, you know they didn't sneer at me either, so, I am not going to make a big issue out of it either, and just try to enjoy the experience; not getting caught up in who said what; who is for me, and who is against me.


Q.  Obviously the USGA got ahead of this and said that you could have the cart before it became an issue.  Had they not done that, though, and if you had been unable to use the cart, would you have gone through qualifying?  Would you be here and could you play without the cart if you had to?

CASEY MARTIN:  If they had not extended me the golf cart, I would not be playing because I just would not have done that.  At the same time, I was not in the position to pursue legally against them.  I am not saying I couldn't have won or not, but I just wasn't willing to go through that.


Q.  You mentioned Hartford Life as an endorser.  I wonder if you could give us an idea as to what your endorsement portfolio looks like right now?

CASEY MARTIN:  All right.  Well, main one is Nike, as you probably can tell.  And, Spalding golf ball, played the Strata golf ball; Ping golf equipment.  Hartford Life is one of my sponsors as well as a magazine that I am going to be writing some articles for.  So, that is where it stands right now.  Anyone else out there, here I am.  (laughs).

CASEY MARTIN:  That is right.


Q.  There has been conversation about your legal bills. Would you be willing to comment - did you pay this yourself and your family or were you bankrolled by somebody who took care of the horrendous costs of this?

CASEY MARTIN:  I guess what happened is I am paying for it myself.  When I got into it, I didn't understand and expect it would be quite as big as it was or could be, still.  So I am fortunate for some of the endorsement situations that have come along; that is basically how I am paying for it now.  As I say, God provides.  As I went into this, I didn't know quite -- obviously didn't have as much money as I needed.  But, at the same time, I probably could have found some people to help me out.  But, like I say, God has just taken care of me and He has provided the means to pay for that and well and beyond.  So I am very grateful.


Q.  How much?

CASEY MARTIN:  You guys want a number?  It is not finished yet.  So, when the whole thing is done I will tell  you all but until then --


Q.  Six figures?

CASEY MARTIN:  Yes, very much six figures.


Q.  You have always said you understand like if Tom Watson says carts don't belong out here, et cetera, but has there ever been a time when things have been said that hurt, that you had to deal with?  Did you go through a tough period with that?

CASEY MARTIN:  Yeah, certainly there were things that were said that hurt.  And things that, you know, you wish people could understand what you deal with so that if they knew that, they wouldn't say the kind of things they do.  But at the same time, I know through my experience with the media that a lot of times what I say can be kind of distorted a little bit.  And, so when I hear certain things, I try not to assume that it was totally accurate all the time.  I try to give the person the benefit of the doubt as I know is the case a couple times.  I try not to be hard on the people.  And, like I say, I have said a lot of things I wish I didn't say before.  So try not to get mad at someone else.


Q.  What do you think your chances of playing on Saturday and Sunday of this week?

CASEY MARTIN:  You know, I think they are very good.  I would be really disappointed if I didn't make the cut here.  Like I say, I don't know what it is going to feel like Thursday, how nervous I am going to be or teeing off at 8 o'clock like I am -- if I will be able to play as well. But at the same time, I will be disappointed if I don't play well.


Q.  The medium and short term plans, are you hoping to get a card for the Tour through the Nike Tour?

CASEY MARTIN:  That is correct.  I am still -- one of the struggles I have had is how many Nike events I should play and the exemptions on the PGA TOUR because every week I give one up on the Nike and my chances get slimmer to make it through.  I am taking a month off on the Nike Tour right now to play the U.S. Open and GHO then I plan on being full-time there to do the best I can to get my card.


Q.  Do you feel that you are role model?

CASEY MARTIN:  You know, I don't feel like I am a role model when I step out here everyday, but at the same time, I guess I am and I want to do a good job with that and be a good example, you know, for kids and hopefully use this situation for good.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT