BRIDGESTONE NHL WINTER CLASSIC: CANADIENS v BRUINS
December 31, 2015
Mike Condon
P.K. Subban
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Mike, what's it mean to you that Michel gave you this game? 
MIKE CONDON: It's an honor. Yeah, it's an honor for me to go out there. And just at the end of the day, it's another game, another two points. Any time you get the nod, you just want to help your team get the best chance they can to win.

Q. Did you find out a long time ago? 
MIKE CONDON: I found out this morning.

Q. How were you able to kind of keep distractions from day one to the side? 
MIKE CONDON: It's just basically laying low. Not doing too much, not going out, not looking at your phone too much. Just trying to be as normal as possible and just concentrating on your work every day and taking care of what you can.

Q. P.K., you probably know by now Brad Marchand won't be playing tomorrow, he has a three‑game suspension. You and he have had a pretty good rivalry around the ice for a couple of years. Are you going to miss him tomorrow? 
P.K. SUBBAN: Well, I know Brad's a big part of their team, so I'm sure they're going to miss him. As far as I'm concerned, I know there is a rivalry between the Montreal Canadiens and Boston Bruins. I don't ever think of playing a specific player. But obviously with the history of us playing against each other, going back to World Juniors, playing with each other and against each other in the playoffs and during the regular season, yeah, there's been some heated battles. 
But that's just a part of the game. There are many players I can probably think of in the league that I've had heated battles against. But it's unfortunate he's not playing tomorrow.

Q. Can you describe what Brendan could bring to you guys? 
P.K. SUBBAN: Well, leadership right away. He's a part of our leadership group. I think that we understand that he's the type of guy that shows up every night. Doesn't take a shift off. I think tomorrow's probably a game that's probably perfect for him to come back to. It's on a big stage, but this type of game, knowing the ice may not be in the best condition and being a chippy game, it's right up his alley. 
So I think for him, the game's going to be really simple tomorrow, and I know that he's really anxious to get back. I know he's been champing at the bit to get back in the lineup and want to be back with the team. We're all happy to have him back.

Q. How much warmer is it out there compared to like Baker Rink? 
MIKE CONDON: Yeah, Baker Rink is a colder rink, and I'm not sure how many people know how cold that place is. It's pretty warm out there. Pretty nice conditions. I think they're going to be pretty similar to tomorrow than they were today. So, yeah, the ice was very good, and I'm sure it will be even better tomorrow.

Q. With Bill Belichick on the back of your mask for tomorrow, have you had a chance to meet him earlier today or any interaction? 
MIKE CONDON: No, no interaction with those guys today. Just keeping it strictly Montreal stuff today.

Q. Your team's built on speed. Is that going to be a problem tomorrow? 
P.K. SUBBAN: You know what, I played in the Heritage Classic in Calgary. It was one of those games where I thought we were the better team. But the ice conditions just kind of changed the game a little bit for us, and you weren't even really able to make a pass. It was tough. But I think it's different now. I didn't think the ice was that bad today. There were some tough areas on it, but I think you've got to skate on it a little bit longer to really get comfortable. I thought it was actually decent at some point in time towards the end of practice.

Q. It's slower, though? 
P.K. SUBBAN: It's a little bit slower, for sure. There is no question. I'm not one to make excuses, but it's definitely a little slower.

Q. Mike, how many family and friends do you anticipate at the game tomorrow, and what colors will you be wearing? 
MIKE CONDON: I know all my family and friends will be wearing the bleu, blanc and rouge for sure. I think the maximum number of tickets you could get was 14, so I maxed that out. Other than that, there are a lot of friends outside that are still coming. So I think they're all cheering for the Canadians.

Q. How are you feeling about your father being able to watch you in this game tomorrow? 
MIKE CONDON: It's great, it's always good to have that family support there, and he's been a big impact in my life, and I'm really happy to have him there.

Q. Mike, obviously you're a local. How long did it take to get used to the setting, and how important was it to get the nerves taken care of as much as you might be able to tonight? 
MIKE CONDON: Yeah, usually when I'm at Gillette Stadium, the last row of nose bleeds. But it's nice to be back on the main level there. So, it's just nice to get out there and get a feel for the rink. It's very important for preparation for tomorrow.

Q. Do you feel like being on the field you watch from the back row? 
MIKE CONDON: Yeah, while you're up there you're going, and now you're down here, it puts things in perspective. So just kind of nice, and happy to be here.

Q. Mike, your dad is working today as a policeman. Do you know if tomorrow he'll receive a day off? 
MIKE CONDON: Tomorrow, he definitely has a day off. So he'll be tailgating. Today he had the opportunity to escort the bus today, so that was pretty funny to see him with the bus down to Foxboro. So he'll have a day off tomorrow.

Q. Talk about being at the center of the hockey universe against an Original Six opponent? 
P.K. SUBBAN: Yeah, it's special. I'm very happy to be with the team that I'm with now. I've been playing in Montreal for a few years, and I think this is the closest group that I've ever played with. I know for the guys you can see the energy in the room, and it's just amazing when you have that bond with your teammates. 
Playing on a stage like this is something you'll remember for the rest of the your life, and that's a connection with your teammates that you'll have for the rest of your life. It goes beyond just the game hockey. We know that everybody's got their family and friends here. The one thing you want to stress in the dressing room as a part of the leadership group is to really enjoy the experience. It doesn't happen every year. For some guys it doesn't happen in their careers. So really enjoy it, take it in, drink it in. We want to get the win and the two points. But enjoy the experience because it is just that, it's a once‑in‑a‑lifetime experience.

Q. Besides the ice conditions, the sun seems to be bright at one end. Is it a concern for shots coming from the corner and shots coming from far away? 
P.K. SUBBAN: Yeah, on the right side, especially for the first period. You practice an hour before the actual game time, so I think the shade will be kicking in at the right time. You have to look at some sunglasses or maybe some more eye black. I'm not sure. But there is glare on that side of the ice.

Q. P.K., how could a win on such a big stage maybe turn things around for you guys? 
P.K. SUBBAN: I think momentum is probably the key. It's not so much, I mean, obviously in this business we're measured on wins and losses. But I think there are times in the season whether you're winning or losing, the way you're playing can sometimes generate momentum for your team and build confidence. 
I think for us right now it's about building confidence from one shift to the next shift. Not looking too far ahead. So we have an opportunity to do that again tomorrow, and I think that this is perfect for us. A stage like this where everybody can get up for and it's refreshed, right? Your family and friends there and everybody watching. So you want to be at your best. I think when we're at our best, there are not too many teams in the league that can compete with us.

Q. P.K. mentioned Tom Brady when you walked in and being here where the Patriots play and they've won four Super Bowls. Just thoughts on being at Gillette Stadium? 
MIKE CONDON: Yeah, I'm blown away he's not here. I was told he was going to be in here. No, I'm kidding. You know, Tom, just so much respect for him as an athlete. I was hoping to bump into him today in the hallway. I was probably going to jump on him or something like that. But watching him on TV, and I'm a Cowboys fan, so I don't know. I know Pierre LeBrun's over there giving me the eye, be careful on how much praise I give Tom. 
But he's a legend. Just to play in this stadium is something special. I know for guys like Condo and Flynn Daddy who are from Boston and the Boston area here, they understand kind of the history here. But a player like Tom Brady is special. It would have been nice to meet him today. But we'll have to save that for another day.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT