MURRAY RIVER OPEN
February 1, 2021
Jason Kubler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  J. KUBLER/L. Sonego
 3-6, 6-3, 6-4
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. How much does the win mean to you?
 JASON KUBLER:   It means a lot because he's such a great player.  I was getting some of the -- I got sent some of the matches he played just so sort of scout him out a little bit and a lot of them were deep in tournaments against top 10, top 20 players.  It's good for my confidence that after injury I'm heading in the right direction.
 I think I can improve in a lot of things, but it's just good -- it's like a little pat on the back, you know.
 Hopefully I'll continue to keep going well.
 Q. Why were you nervous?
 JASON KUBLER:   I was nervous for sure, but I feel like it was more like his presence on the court almost made it bigger than what it was.  Like he sort of gave me the feeling like if I didn't hit a shot in the right spot, then he was going to push in the rally.  So that probably sort of added to it, and then I was missing a bit more than what I would have liked.
 But yeah, I'd probably just say as soon as I realized I don't need to hit everything perfectly in the corner so I can stay in the point, then that sort of calmed me down, I started making a few more balls and then it was a bit better.
 Q. What was the difference in the second set do you think?
 JASON KUBLER:   Than to the first set?
 Q. Yeah, did you get more comfortable?
 JASON KUBLER:   Yeah, I would just say that the rallies got extended.  In the first set it was more -- it felt quite quick out there, as well, so maybe that had something to do with his presence on the court, being up on the baseline and hitting pretty big.  But yeah, it was more -- yeah, the rallies got extended.  I was returning his serve pretty well, and then yeah, just felt more comfortable from the baseline.
 Q. In terms of best career win, how high does this rank for you?
 JASON KUBLER:   It's probably my second best ever I reckon.  I had a good win first round US Open.  That's probably the best one I ever had, but this one, yeah, with the quality player he is, yeah, this is probably second best I reckon.
 Q. What are your expectations for the rest of the week?  What's the mindset you'll take into the next round?
 JASON KUBLER:   Just sort of however it comes I'll just try my best.  I'm not really -- even before today I'm not expecting too much.  As long as I can go out there and try my best, we'll see what happens.  I don't want to say I think I can go really well then have sort of false confidence in myself.  Like I'm just going to go out there, try my best.  Hopefully I play well in the tough situations, and then if I can get a couple wins or even another win on the board, then I'm going to be ecstatic.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT