MOUNTAIN WEST WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 3, 2020
Jamie Craighead
Fieme'a Hafoka
Ayzhiana Basallo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Fresno State - 94, San Jose State - 68
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by San Jose State.
COACH CRAIGHEAD: As hard as it is for Spartans to give credit to Bulldogs, I thought Fresno State played a terrific game. We couldn't hit shots early. Got in a little bit of a hole. Couldn't seem to keep them in front of us. They got to the free-throw line a ton of times and that makes it really difficult.
But I'm super proud of my team. It's the second team that's gotten to the semifinals. This group, for the most part, will be coming back. I'm excited to see what they can do in the future. But I'm really going to miss the senior on the end here, who has played her heart out for us the last four seasons.
Q. Coach, could you talk about the growth this team has had, especially from last season going into this season, and like you said, one of the only teams going into the semis?
COACH CRAIGHEAD: They worked. We came back last season and said, we're not going to have a season like we had had the previous two years. And we felt like we had some really nice pieces. And obviously Zhiana was a big part of this group and Ty.
And I felt like we were a little bit older, mature, more experienced. They played so hard all season. Our defense got better. We could score. And obviously tonight we couldn't find the bottom of the basket enough.
But they just did what you do. You're resilient. You fight. And you find ways to be better. And I'm just really proud. They learn a lot at this age and playing sports is really humbling. And we're kind of feeling that right now. But they've done a great job.
Number one turnaround in Division I women's basketball with our win total. Hopefully we get to play on. That's our hope.
Q. This isn't the outcome you hoped for, still one of the best seasons in the program's history. Can you talk about what this season has meant to you?
AYZHIANA BASALLO: It's meant a lot. Like Coach said, we're like the first, what did you say, Division I program turnaround. It was great playing with everybody. We proved a lot of people wrong. We've just got to keep going from here.
FIEME'A HAFOKA: I'm just sad, not just because we lost, but just because I know we could do a lot more. But at the end of the day I'm not going to let this game tonight take away from what was accomplished this whole season. And I think that, I know for a fact that next year these girls are going to come back even stronger. Everyone's coming back.
But I also think that not a lot of people knew we were going to be here today. We were picked last. I think the fact that like media, like media doesn't mean anything. And here we are. We played for the semis and we play sports. And I think we proved a lot of people wrong. And I hope next year these girls are going to go back and hopefully they're not picked last because we showed what we've got. And I know next year they're going to come.
I'm proud of this team I'm proud of everything we accomplished but this team ain't done yet. And I know they're going to come even harder.
Q. Coach, can you just talk a little bit about Megan and Danae, as far as their influence on the program and how they've kind of been maybe a steadying force in being a part of this turnaround at San Jose State?
COACH CRAIGHEAD: You obviously know what they accomplished in their high school careers. And when we were recruiting them, we knew we were recruiting winners -- character people, glue people. Megan is by far one of the best shooters I've ever coached. I'm excited she's not graduating. We're losing a pretty good one on this end, too.
And Danae, she's that resilient kid that doesn't have the height, doesn't have the speed, but man her heart is bigger than anybody on the court.
And they bring a lot to our program, and -- like everyone does. But we were fortunate we felt like at the time when we didn't have anything to show them, there wasn't a bunch of wins to show them, and they took a chance on us. And I feel proud as a coach to be able to go into Fresno State's backyard and steal a couple of kids from them. And obviously recruiting is always the name of the game. And we feel like we have a really good program and we're excited that they came and they just have been great additions.
Q. How did you guys feel about the officiating today? Fresno State had over twice the amount of free throws as you guys. And foul disparity was 27-15. How did you feel about that disparity?
COACH CRAIGHEAD: I mean, that's not what determined the game. I thought that their kids were very aggressive from the start. And they played in that 2-3 zone, and I don't think we attacked it enough and got ourselves in the paint.
At the end of the day, we've got to make shots and get stops. And it's a lot when you look at the free throws, 34-15, but ultimately we could control things that we didn't control. And we can't do anything about the officials.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT