NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v COYOTES
May 18, 2012
Gilbert Brule
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Gilbert Brule.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the attitude of the team today.   
GILBERT BRULE:   I think today is a regeneration day.   Most of the guys are taking a day off.   The guys that didn't play much or play at all are skating today and getting a good workout in.   
   
 Q.   Is there a sense that we can come back and win one game?  
GILBERT BRULE:   All our focus is on that one game.   I think that confidence is good going back home.   
   
 Q.   Instead of being in the game, did you get a perspective?  
GILBERT BRULE:   You know what, they're pressuring really hard, especially in our own end.   The wingers, we're having a hard time getting the puck out.   You know, they're pinching all the time.   They're having their centermen back them up, their third guy high all the time.   It's tough to get past them.  
   
 Q.   Talk about getting that one game, one‑goal lead?   Also seeing what they do when they have to face some adversity.   
GILBERT BRULE:   Yeah, they haven't had to face a lot of adversity in the playoffs so far.   That's one thing we've got to get in their heads a bit.   Especially their goalie is playing really well for them.   
   
 Q.   Are they in the heads of your club?   
GILBERT BRULE:   It's the Western Conference final.   We got to play better hockey.   This is the time of year where you really got to bear down obviously.   To go down 3‑0 is not the spot we want to be in.   
I think if we get one win, that's going to start somewhere for us.  
   
 Q.   A team like L.A. where they pair a puck‑moving defenseman with a more stay‑at‑home type, what type of challenge does that provide for an offense?   
GILBERT BRULE:   You talking about Scuderi and Doughty?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
GILBERT BRULE:   One guy always jumping up in the play, which makes it tough.   We always have to have our guys back‑checking, especially when we're deep in their end, because they always have that guy jumping.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT