NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
June 9, 2011
Tim Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Tim. 

 Q. You were able to dictate the tempo in your own building the last two games, county same thing be done up here in a hostile environment? 
 TIM THOMAS: I don't see why not. It's in our hands, you know? Being on the road, the other team does get the last change so that's one thing that changes, but as far as the crowd, it's the same people on the ice. The crowd can't be out there on the ice with you. 
 So as the opposing team, you just have to be mentally strong enough to focus on that 200-by-85 that you're playing on and not what's around it. 

 Q. Do you let yourself at, all two wins away, think about the Cup? 
 TIM THOMAS: No more than you have the whole way through. I think it's important to visualize winning the Cup, that's what helps you to get there. So I think it's important to keep the same sort of visualization but not to take it any further, because things can change quick. 
 The Stanley Cup is the big picture but you've got to break it down and look at the little pictures all the time.

 Q. Do you visualize during the season? 
 TIM THOMAS: Yeah.

 Q. Describe it, what, you're riding a bike? 
 TIM THOMAS: Yeah, just -- yeah. (Laughter.)

 Q. I'm just fascinated by the --
 TIM THOMAS: No, I think actually it's a good thing to visualize right before you go to bed. 

 Q. How about on the plane? 
 TIM THOMAS: Yeah, yeah, it's a good. It's good to have positive, little quick visualizations here and there all the time. 

 Q. Can you talk about being physical, even, you know, tomorrow in this building. You're really physical as a team, that's why I'm asking, but how important is it feel the same as it was at home? 
 TIM THOMAS: I think it's important for us to play the same type of game that we played the last two games. That's what led us to the success that we had in those two games. 
 The challenge is doing it. It's easy to say "this is what we have to do," but it takes an extreme amount of effort and people laying their bodies on the line and that's what we're going to need as a group and as a team to come out of tomorrow night's game victorious. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT