NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: TULSA
March 21, 2019
Bobby Hurley
Remy Martin
Zylan Cheatham
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: The student-athletes up here are Remy Martin and Zylan Cheatham.  We are ready for questions at anytime.
Q. Either of you guys, just talk about how crazy the last 24 hours have been, you know, emotional win against Saint John's landing here at 4:00 in the morning and 12 hours after you land out to practice.
REMY MARTIN: It's been very exciting, I mean, just to experience this my sophomore year as well.  Been a great experience, man, winning and advancing.  Just the satisfaction of winning and knowing that your season is still going is a great feeling, great accomplishment, and obviously that our eyes are on the prize.  We're definitely trying to continue to win.  We're also absorbing everything that comes with it.
ZYLAN CHEATHAM: I mean, to obviously accomplish a win like that, to celebrate it with your guys, but I was happier to get back on the plane and lock into the next task.  I'd say it's pretty much been an emotional rollercoaster.  But you have to embrace your wins, you have to enjoy it, live in the moment, but, at the same time, you got to stay focused on the task ahead.
Q. To kind of dovetail off that, how -- what was the most difficult part of that quick turnaround, like 16-to-20 hour turnaround.  What was the most difficult part of this?
ZYLAN CHEATHAM: I didn't get into my hotel bed until about, I want to say like 5:00 in the morning.  But I say the most tough part about it was just leaving straight from the game, your bags are already packed, go straight to the airport, and you get straight back on the road.
On the flip side of that is like our fans and are dancing and cheer team and our band, they did such a good job of keeping us in a positive spirits, keeping us happy.  When we got to the airport, they're there and cheering for us.  It's stuff like that that you just have to embrace and look at it as part of the process.
Q. When you're scouting Buffalo and looking at Buffalo, what jumps out at them that -- what do they do that can really pose challenges for you guys?
REMY MARTIN: We haven't got to that yet, but we know that they're going to go out and play hard as they can.  They're a great team, we know that.  We know their record speaks for itself.  They're a winning team.  We know that they're going to come out and play hard.  It's going to be a fun game.
ZYLAN CHEATHAM: I'd say aside from the X and Os part of it, they're considered a mid major conference and they're coming off of 12 straight wins.  Stuff like that.  I've actually been are part of that mid major conference.  You want to be considered the top of the top, so we know they're going to come out extremely hungry.
To get to the Xs and Os part, they're a really disciplined team.  They don't make many mistakes.  They capitalize off of mistakes.  We got to clean up some turnovers.  Like I said, we know we're going to get their best shot, but we got to make sure we match their intensity.
Q. This is for you Remy.  It seems like with this team on any given night, somebody different might step up and have a fantastic game.  For you personally, kind of in and out of the game last night, does it make you -- I don't know if "comfort" is the right word, maybe more confidence, knowing if you do have to sit down with your health condition, that your guys have it?
REMY MARTIN: Yeah.  I mean our guys, we've been through so much adversity, you know, on and off the court.  We're so close knit.  I know even when I'm not playing my best game that somebody like Lu, Rob and Mello,, anybody can step up.  That's the great thing about our team is that there's no individuals.  We're all together.  When one falls, the other one is there to pick them up.  That's the greatness of our team.
I'm just happy to be a part of the team and have guys like that that, you know, are players and they pick me up when I'm not having my best game and, who knows, I might have a good game tomorrow.
Q. Just going off that, I guess for either one of you, can you talk about what Lu did last night.  And I think really this morning he kind of got some more national recognition finally not just people in Arizona recognizing it.
ZYLAN CHEATHAM: At this point nothing he does really surprises me.  I've seen the work that he put in, I mean -- I remember the first workout I ever worked out with him, he was just doing things that you don't really see freshmen.
Do.  I've been around for what, this is my fifth year.  It's just things you never really see freshmen do.  Not that I was expecting him to have a game like that but the fact that he did just compliments the work he put in, the confidence he has in himself and the confidence Bobby gives us as players.
REMY MARTIN: He's a beast.
Q. Obviously a big story line with this game is Bobby going against his former assistant with Nate 	Oats.  Has he talked about that at all or do you see him, you know, maybe little extra emotional, anything like that?
REMY MARTIN: No.  It's all about the team.  This is about us and our future and it's just all about the team, what we need to do to be successful, and it's not about him.  He's never been a me guy.  Everything that he says or does is for all of us.
ZYLAN CHEATHAM: He's done a really good job.  Kind of making it our journey as opposed to his.  That was his message, don't really get too far into the whole emotional impact this game could have on me or something like that.  I want you guys to stay focused.  I've already did what I did in college and I've made my journey.  It's you guy's turn.  He's doing a good job of not making it about himself.
THE MODERATOR: Anything else for the student-athletes of Arizona State?  All right, gentlemen.  Thank you very much.  Best of luck.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT