LOS ANGELES FOOTBALL CLUB MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 24, 2020
Mark-Anthony Kaye
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Seattle Sounders 3, Los Angeles Football Club 1
Q. Wanted to get your thoughts on tonight's match and then kind of talk about moving forward, and listen, the year's not over, you still have Champion's League coming up.  How are you guys going to be preparing coming into that?
MARK-ANTHONY KAYE:   We knew coming into today's match it was going to be difficult.  We needed to be organized defensively, and also good on the ball.  Seattle is a very good team at home, and you know, it's unfortunate the way the game went and we let in some goals.  We pushed a little bit but weren't able to get the goals we needed to get back into the game.
So we go home empty-handed, and yeah, we're very fortunate that after a season like this, we can still continue it looking into Champion's League.  So we have three weeks to get ready for it and no excuses.  Got to get something out of this and keep moving forward.
Q. It looked like in tonight's game you were a little bit more patient and you weren't necessarily pressing.  What was the game plan going in and how did that change once Seattle took the lead?
MARK-ANTHONY KAYE:   Yeah, like I said, we needed to be organized defensively.  I think Seattle understood that we are a team that high-press, so they tried to exploit us out wide, and us being patient, we tried to stifle their play a little bit going forward.
So yeah, obviously we raised our intensity a little bit when Seattle got a couple goals to really push the game plan.  At 1-0 we felt comfortable and at 2-0 you have to start pushing to get a goal.
Like I said, we tried to come in here and be organized, but Seattle got the better of us.
Q. Thank you for coming out.  I know this must be difficult.  You know, the season is not over yet.  There is a game in December on the 15th or 16th.  What is the plan between now and that game?
MARK-ANTHONY KAYE:   Not sure yet.  We're going to figure out in training and we'll regroup and just continue to do the work we do every day.  We have an opportunity to win a trophy which a lot of MLS teams are fighting for one right now and we have an opportunity to fight for another, so we need to put all our focus towards that, and we're excited, because it's a real opportunity.
Q. This pandemic has damaged so many people and it seems like it took a toll on everybody around the league and beyond, and I wonder if you're willing, could you just share the emotions in the locker room right now after this journey of a year?
MARK-ANTHONY KAYE:   Obviously, yeah, we're disappointed.  Every time we don't win a game, we're disappointed.  Obviously the mood is not very high right now, which is normal.  But we do have Champion's League in three weeks, so we have to think about this game, try to improve from it and move past it and then get ready for our next challenge.  So it's not fun right now, but we have something to look forward to.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT