LOS ANGELES FOOTBALL CLUB MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 27, 2020
Mark-Anthony Kaye
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  San Jose - 2, LAFC - 1
 Q. Just start off with your initial impressions of a difficult loss.
 MARK-ANTHONY KAYE:   Yeah, San Jose is always a tough team with the way they play.  So they make it a very difficult game that requires you to push really hard to try and pick up second balls and find some space for yourself with their, the way they man mark.  So, yeah, we knew that going into the game, and I think in the first half we started to get a feel for what it was like.  In the second half we just came up short in a bunch of different plays on the field, whether it be coming away with a second ball or having numbers around the ball and winning it there to stop us from doing more running or whether that's making a play in the offensive end of the field or making one in the defensive end.  So it was just a game where we didn't, didn't do our best in small moments that ended up penalizing us.
 Q. I asked this question of Bob.  I just want to know your thoughts on it.  Do you think this is a game you guys lost or this is a game San Jose lost?
 MARK-ANTHONY KAYE:   We lost this game.  Simple as that.  We know that.  Our standard is very high and I think we let ourselves down today, whether that be, like I said, winning certain balls, or running back harder, running forward harder.  We were up 1-0 and we ended up losing 2-11.  So we lost this game.
 Q. Kind of looking ahead, if you can, obviously you've got a little bit more time in between games, how do you hope to use that time to kind of prepare for the next game?
 MARK-ANTHONY KAYE:   Nothing changes.  It would be nice to get some days off, but everything stays the same.  We have to continue to work hard at the training ground and try to get better at the things we work on every day.  We can't just abandon ship or think that we need to change things.  It's just this is a challenging year and we need to be up for the challenge because it's new to us, but we have to keep pushing through.
 Q. Bob Bradley said a couple days ago that he's going to let the national players go and play and you guys potentially have four players that are going to leave the team.  With a loss like this, I don't want to jump ahead of myself and look into the future, but what does this say of the depth of this team?
 MARK-ANTHONY KAYE:   The depth?
 Q. Yeah.  Depth.
 MARK-ANTHONY KAYE:   Yeah, it's going to up doors for players to get opportunities to play on the field.  So it's always a good compliment to have players go away with their national teams.  It shows that the club is doing the right thing.  But, yeah, now players are going to have to step up when they're called on and that's why training is so important.  So it won't be a surprise to anyone on the team that if they get their jersey called they just need to be ready to perform at the standard we need them to be at.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT