NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 26, 2014
Reggie Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What did you think of Russ's defense last night? 
REGGIE JACKSON:   He did a great job for us, really containing Parker.   Also really help‑side defense did really well, running guys up behind.   All in all I thought the team did well.   We stayed with our defense coverages, had a few things that we wanted to change last night, but for the most part we communicated to the best of our ability.

Q.   Everyone wants to look at Serge, that when he plays like that it sets the tone for you guys.   What kind of lift does that give you? 
REGGIE JACKSON:   A great one for us.   It allows us to be ready from the jump to zero at the end of the game, so that was key.   Just wanted to play all 48 minutes to the best of our ability, as hard as we could, and Russ did a great job setting the tone with that.   I think he decided he was going to lock in early on defense for us and push the pace, push the tempo, and I think that's what we did for the majority of the night.

Q.   What's your role in that starting lineup? 
REGGIE JACKSON:   Just go out and be aggressive, just play basketball, have fun, and contribute to the best of my abilities to help the team win.   Besides the fact that knowing I had to play somebody last night in Danny Green who went 7 of 10 in Game 2 on us from the three‑point line.   I knew I had to contain him, but for the most part go out there and be myself and play the game of basketball.

Q.   You've started a lot of games but never with Russ.   Is your mindset different when you're actually starting alongside Westbrook?
REGGIE JACKSON:   No.   I played pickup with him in the summer, so that's good enough for me. 

Q.   Kevin was saying that one of the things he'd like to fix is the turnovers.   He also said there were some moments where there was a little bit of hesitation in the flow of the offense.   Is that just something that comes with time, another game with that same five and you'll kind of work that stuff out or it'll work itself out?
REGGIE JACKSON:   Possibly.   We're trying to figure some things out because we haven't started the game off together.   But we played probably nine minutes together, just trying to get comfortable with each other, knowing that we have three playmakers all playing at the same time.   We have a pick‑and‑pop guy in Serge and also he can attack the basket.   Perk does a great job for us with his limited touches on the block.   Even though I'm not sure people notice.   He does a great job screening for us and making plays.   We try and get better with our spacing each and every moment that we're on the floor together no matter what five it is, and then just play free flowing.   The turnovers happened last night, and hopefully we can shore those things up and try to find ways to continue to attack their team and make them move.

Q.   The offensive pace seemed really good last night, got into your offense quicker.   Was that a point of emphasis, or did that flow out of the defense that you guys were playing?   What do you attribute that to?
REGGIE JACKSON:   I think we got into the offense a little quick in Game 1 and Game 2, probably a little too quick for us.   But we just wanted to exhaust the shot clock to the best of our ability, whether it be getting a shot in the first five seconds if it's a great look, but also understanding that you can take a page out of their book and exhaust the shot clock and demand each possession is 24 seconds.   So understanding that maybe our first look wasn't going to be a great one.   Just try to get the offense going in 20 seconds and then play from there, take what the defense gives us, and hopefully at some point in the shot clock, whether early or late, find a great shot.

Q.   When did you find out you were starting? 
REGGIE JACKSON:   I found out this time yesterday, so at shoot‑around.

Q.   When something like that happens, does Scotty tell you personally, does he announce to the team?   How does it happen?
REGGIE JACKSON:   I mean, he does it different ways.   Sometimes‑‑ yesterday I was just shooting baskets by myself, just getting warmed up, and just kind of came over and talked to me one‑on‑one and let me know I was starting.

Q.   What did he tell you in addition to the news that you were starting?   Any specific instructions?
REGGIE JACKSON:   I had Danny Green, and definitely try and limit his open looks and make sure he didn't hurt us the way he did in Game 2.

Q.   He was more defensive focused than offense?
REGGIE JACKSON:   No, he told me to go out there and be aggressive, so I guess a little bit of both.

Q.   You guys have done this twice now, change your starting lineup in the middle of the series.   It's worked both times and gone through four years.   Only a trade or an injury has changed the lineup.   Why do you think it's worked so well both times you've done it this postseason?
REGGIE JACKSON:   Maybe it's just a different look for the other team.   It's just a testament to Thabo being able to step back for the team.   I know it was hard on him, especially didn't get a chance to play last night.   We still expect him to come in and contribute and do what he does, lock up defensively, really be major for our defense and then knock down the long ball for us.   I'm sure he's still ready to play, but I don't know why it worked so well.   It just came out.   We probably just give all the credit to Serge.   I'm cool with that.   The crowd was behind him.   It was great to have him back.   Hopefully like I said before there's no more setbacks for him.   It just really helped us in defense coverage, whether it be pick‑and‑roll, whether it be chasing things at the basket, especially the block on Tony Parker I believe it was in the third.   You've got a guy like that, everybody can kind of stay home and you know he's going to take the basket, so he really helped us out.

Q.   Neither Thabo or Nick played last night and they're usually in the rotation.   Didn't play at all, and here they are, two of the last guys on the court practicing. 
REGGIE JACKSON:   Oh, they're doing everything possible to be ready for the next game.   They know their number maybe wasn't called in Game 3, that they didn't touch the court, but I'm not sure if that's going to be the same case in Game 4.   They're always ready.   They're always competing, finding ways to get better, and there's a reason that they've been in the league for a long time.   That's basically kind of the culture here.   Everybody works.   Guys go out there healthy or not, just trying to find ways to get better each and every day, whether it be coming back from an injury, nursing an injury or finding ways on the court.   If you see them out here, I definitely think it's giving way for guys like Andre over there to continue to work and get better, Perry over there getting shots earlier.   I think even Fish is here, and he's been here 19 years.   Top to bottom, we just find ways to get better. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT