US OPEN
September 6, 1997
Brian Teacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Brian, you obviously heard the answer that Greg said about the depth of the game.
When you were playing, do you know what -- 
 
 BRIAN TEACHER: There's so much more money in the game. I think with the money, more
kids want to play tennis. I mean, gee, we have probably 500 to 1,000 guys on The Tour,
satellite players, this and that. Even the satellite players are very tough. You have guys
coming up from the satellites that beat guys on the regular Tour fairly consistently. It's
a revolving door now. Before, when I was playing, it was like, you know, you'd look at the
draw and you'd see guys that you knew you weren't going to have too tough of a time. Yeah,
it exists a little bit still, but not to the level. I mean, sometimes you could go two or
three matches and think, "I'm not going to have much competition in these two
rounds." It just doesn't happen. Now, it's like, you get in the first round, you have
to be ready to roll, otherwise you're going to be out of the event. 
 
Q. Brian, how did you come to work with Greg? When? What were you doing before that?
 
 BRIAN TEACHER: How did I come to work with him? I was kind of out -- you know, I had
worked in coaching about four, five years ago with some guys, Jimmy Grabb, Richey
Reneberg, Derrick Rostagno. I kind of worked with that group for about six months. I had
some property development going on at Telluride. I had a decent experience with them. I
had some business to attend to, that I got back into. I got finished with that, moved on
to another project in Colorado. That kind of culminated, as far as what I needed to
accomplish there. Then I basically was talking to Brad Gilbert, telling him I'd been out
of coaching for a while, like to get back in it, "Can you help me?" Brad's agent
was John Mayotte. John is Greg's agent. John was trying to find a coach for Greg. He
talked to Brad and Brad recommended me. So we hooked up about 15, 16 months ago in May. I
actually flew to St. Polten, which was the week before the French '96. That was really the
first week that I met Greg. It was at a tournament. It was kind of a funny time to start
working on his game. But at least, you know, that was the best we could do under the
situation. It was then that I started learning about his game. I'd seen him play. His
father sent me a number of videos. I'd seen him play in the past. I hadn't seen him play a
lot in the last couple years. It was a learning experience for me as well as him. 
 
Q. What would you say were the best qualities he showed today throughout those five
sets?
 
 BRIAN TEACHER: The best qualities? He showed a lot of determination and guts and
willpower. I thought the second and third sets were very one-sided. Jonas was playing
extremely well. It was like the first set was, like, too good to be true. I mean, Greg
seemed like he played flawless, hitting everything he tried. Jonas really had trouble
getting his, you know, racquet on the ball when Greg was serving. He was a little
tentative. But, you know, in three out of five sets, it's too good to be true that that is
how the match is going to go. I knew Jonas was too good, he was going to start playing
better. Sure enough, not only did he start playing better, he played great. In the fourth
set, Jonas, I don't know exactly what point, he made a couple errors, Greg made a few good
shots. Next thing you know, the momentum, literally it just flip-flopped. It flip-flopped
after the first set, flip-flopped in the fourth. It was like Greg broke once in the
fourth. I was thinking, "It would be great to hold here." He didn't hold. He
broke back. He finally held. Then he got a little steam going. I just knew at the start of
the fifth set that he was going to be more pumped up and moving better than he was in the
second and third. Sure enough, he really did. He pumped himself up. The adrenaline carried
him through there. 
 
Q. Brian, you were saying on Friday night that you weren't sure whether to make him
practice yesterday because you were worried about the virus. Can you give us a medical
history of the last 36 hours?
 
 BRIAN TEACHER: Let's see. Well, today is? 
 
Q. Saturday.
 
 BRIAN TEACHER: On Thursday he started actually coming down with something. We hit a
little on Thursday. I noticed that he had a little -- his voice was getting a little
rough, sounded like he was getting a cold or virus or whatever. So we had a decent hit,
the same that we'd be doing every other day. I talked to him later that night. His voice,
you know, it got considerably tighter. You could hear it. He was like (indicating). He
could hardly talk. He went to see the doctor. The doctor advised him, you know,
"Greg, whatever it is, virus, bacterial, I'm putting you on antibiotics and just rest
tomorrow." You know, I certainly wouldn't want to go against what a doctor is saying.
It would have been nice if he hit, but at the same time I was feeling, "Look, if he's
not feeling well, instead of hitting, I'd rather have him have all his energy and rest up
than hit. He's hit enough tennis balls." Throwing him out of his rhythm, not hitting
one day, is not as important as him feeling well for the match. Obviously that's what he
did. It was a good move. 
 
Q. But you said that before he lost to Pioline at Wimbledon.
 
 BRIAN TEACHER: Before he lost to Pioline, yeah. I was concerned with that. Before he
lost to Pioline at Wimbledon, we were supposed to practice the day before, and we'd been
hitting on the off days every day. I was waiting at Queen's Club for him to come over. He
got stuck in traffic, he couldn't make it. He couldn't hail a cab. He called a cab, they
were going to come. Didn't come. He waited for like 45 minutes. He was out in the streets
trying to get one. Finally he called up the Queen's Club a little like an hour after we
were supposed to meet, said, "Forget it, too aggravating, I don't need to hit."
That's what happened. I was concerned that, you know, maybe the same thing would happen.
And it didn't. 
 
Q. Brian, when you started working with him 15 months ago, did you see the potential of
a Grand Slam finalist?
 
 BRIAN TEACHER: That's funny. I certainly -- yeah, I'd say I did see the potential of a
Grand Slam finalist and a Grand Slam winner potentially. I didn't see it at that time that
we would be sitting here 15 months later and him having the opportunity to do it. No, I
didn't. That's like too much of a fantasy from where we were 15 months ago. But I did see
that certainly he had the weapon at the time, which was his big serve. He's got a big
forehand, and he volleys well. I saw the makings of it. It's been a building process, you
know. He surprised me. I'd be the first one to say that. 
 
Q. Brian, is this something at this tournament that he surprised you with?
 
 BRIAN TEACHER: Certainly. I mean, you know, Greg didn't expect to be in the Finals
here. But, hey, we're here. We're going to make the most of it. He's got a great shot
tomorrow.  
 
Q. What correlation do you see specifically between all that work you did together in
December and perhaps being mentally tough enough to get through a fifth set in the
semifinal of a Grand Slam?
 
 BRIAN TEACHER: Well, I don't think the work in December had anything to do with the
mental toughness of him getting through the fifth set. That completely, you know, had to
do with Greg and the guts and stuff that he wanted. That comes just from the will and
determination of the player. They both had moments of getting a little nervous here or
there. You'd see how the match would switch back. I don't think anything of the work had
anything to do with his fifth-set win today. It's just been a gradual building process.
You're seeing here a player emerge all of a sudden and hitting his peak. He's improving
not only in front of my eyes but in front of everybody else's eyes, too. That's a
beautiful thing, as far as a coach is concerned. 
 
Q. Brian, although he's playing at a new level at the moment, there would still be a
lot of room for improvement?
 
 BRIAN TEACHER: Absolutely. He's got a lot of room for improvement. There's no question.
He doesn't know how much room for improvement he can still have. I see it, you know. Maybe
he does. But he's doing just fine as he is. He's doing fantastic. 
 
Q. In what aspects do you think perhaps could be improved?
 
 BRIAN TEACHER: Greg can improve literally every aspect of his game. You would look at
his serve and say, "Can he improve his serve?" He's got one of the best serves
in the game. Some days he serves as well as anybody in the world. It's an incredibly
consistent weapon. Maybe that's the one area that I could look at and say, "That's
granted; that doesn't necessarily need any improvement." Everything else in his game,
he can still do better. Sometimes he goes after his volleys a little bit more than others;
he's a little more aggressive. Sometimes he gets a little standoffish. That's a correction
that he ended up making today. Got aggressive, went after the ball. His forehand, it's a
big weapon. Sometimes he makes a few too many errors on it. He takes too big of a swing.
There's a few little technical things. His backhand is getting better all the time.
There's no question that it's improving over the 16 months, and it's going to continue to
improve. 
 
Q. If Greg is to play against Michael Chang, is your advice to him as a coach to not
let the match get anywhere near a fifth set with the way he's been feeling?
 
 BRIAN TEACHER: I don't think you can say, "Don't let the match get near a fifth
set." I think you can try and say, "Hey, let's not try and battle Mike Chang
from the back court. Let's not try to have 25-ball rallies. Let's take some chances
against the guy, try and make the points a little quicker." I mean, you can't keep a
match from going five sets. Nobody can do that. It's going to do what it's going to do.
You can try and make the points a little quicker and take your chances when you see them. 
 
Q. Brian, what is your role over the next 24 hours?
 
 BRIAN TEACHER: The next 24 hours? Not much in the next 12, 15 hours really. I mean,
Greg's just going to go back and relax and get some dinner and call it a night or day.
Really my role doesn't start again except to make sure that he turns the phone off and
doesn't answer any calls, you know. I'm going to be sure and tell him that. Then, you
know, my role tomorrow is just to get him going, see how he's feeling, make sure I try --
if he's got any negative thoughts and stuff. He seems like he's great mentally. I'm hoping
I'm not going to have to do much but just warm him up. He wants to win this thing. He's
got a real shot. That's more important than anything that I'm going to give him. 
 
Q. Brian, did you have any concern at all, you talk about his mental frame of mind, any
concerns about him watching the service and all the emotions that he felt about Princess
Diana?
 
 BRIAN TEACHER: I did have a little concern about that. We talked about it. You know, he
put in it perspective. I felt he was going to put it in the proper perspective. I don't
think he overdid it at all. He seemed pretty balanced about watching it, you know. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT