MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 10, 2011
Derek Brooks
Jeff Reynolds
Evan Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 THE MODERATOR: We're joined by the Air Force Academy. Coach, if we could start with some general comments on tonight's game. 
 COACH REYNOLDS: I thought the game was choppy for both sides. I thought their defensive pressure caused us to take some quick shots that were contested. We didn't shoot the ball like we're capable of. 
 But I think you have to give UNLV's defense credit. They were able to dictate the tempo from the start of the game. 
 THE MODERATOR: At this time we'll open it up for questions for the student-athletes. 

 Q. Derek, were you surprised how well they shot the three? 
 DEREK BROOKS: They shot the ball better than the last two games that we played. But they have been playing better than the last I think five games. So, you know, they shot the ball like they're capable of. We just tried to get out and contest it and they still made shots. 

 Q. You've accepted to the collegeinsider.com tournament. Talk about the chance to play in the post-season to end your career. 
 EVAN WASHINGTON: It's a great feeling to know that my career's not over at this point. But it still hurts right now because we're playing to win the tournament, get an automatic bid into the national NCAA tournament. 
 It's an excellent feeling to know that I can still play another day. 
 DEREK BROOKS: Like Evan said, it's a privilege that we get another shot at winning. A tournament, we got a couple more games. We're going to try to go out and put our best foot forward. 
 THE MODERATOR: We'll dismiss the student-athletes and continue with questions for Coach Reynolds. 

 Q. You talked about how well they were shooting the ball. Obviously it worried you coming in. Were they just hitting shots or did you have some breakdowns? 
 COACH REYNOLDS: They ran pretty much what our staff had put together in the scouting report. We had some defensive breakdowns. Stanback made two really highly contested shots in the corner which got his rhythm going. 
 If they shoot the ball with that type of consistency from the outside, along with their defense, they can play about anyone in the country. 

 Q. Your thoughts on playing in the post-season tournament? Are you excited about that as a program? 
 COACH REYNOLDS: Obviously we're excited about it. But this is news to me. I was not aware. We had been contacted by both the CBI and CIT. We're told we had to take care of our business. I'm not sure what that means, but we lost tonight. 
 I'm thrilled for these seniors, these young men that are graduating, that are going to go on and represent the United States Air Force. They deserve this opportunity. The Academy has not had an opportunity to play in post-season in college basketball very often. For our program to take that kind of step is gratifying to the players and the work they've put in. 
 It's great news. I hope it's true. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, coach. 
 COACH REYNOLDS: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT