THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
October 18, 2012
Gary Christian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Gary, bogey there on the last, but still a good start to the week for you.   
GARY CHRISTIAN:   Yeah.   Terrific.   I was telling Scott from the Golf Channel here that my preparation for the event was about as poor as I could have done.   So it kind of came around yesterday.   I kind of reached the bottom on Tuesday where I was playing so bad and frustrated, and Lee wanted to find me.   It was all off.   My mom and dad and brother came in Tuesday night, and it kind of helped me take my mind off things.   
Yeah, I swung with the best tempo I've swung with in a long, long time this year.   That's the secret, my swing.   Certainly not going to overpower a course, but keep plugging it down the middle and plugging it on the green, make a few putts, then I can shoot 67, 66 or lower.   That's what I did today.   Nothing spectacular.  
These greens are probably the hardest greens I've ever putted on, to read and get the speed right, and fortunately I didn't have too many putts outside 20feet.   So had a relatively stress‑free day on the greens, but obviously if you start hitting the outside there, that's when it gets a little trickier.  
   
 Q.   Pretty thought‑free this morning, clear mind?  
GARY CHRISTIAN:   Yeah.   It was good.   I was just trying to work on tempo.   I work hard on the mental side of my game.   I played with Debra Graham, we had a little chat on Wednesday or Tuesday or whatever it was and felt a little more relaxed about things.   And just trying to ‑‑ the brain was wound so tight that allowed it to just unwind just a little bit.  
   
 Q.   What did she kind of tell you?  
GARY CHRISTIAN:   Well, you just gotta accentuate how well you've played this year.   I've played very solid for a lot of tournaments, made a lot of cuts, and unfortunately your brain goes to kind of what you've been doing at the moment, recently, which has not been terribly good.   So you just gotta get back to telling yourself how good you are, how good you've played.   
And I kind of liked it.   I was telling my mom and dad and brother, you gotta tell me how good I am.   That was kind of nice.   We didn't do too much yesterday.   We went down to Fort Frederica and just wandered around, did the English tourist thing.   And it was nice, very relaxing day.   See if we can do something similar today and relax and get ready for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Did they give you a good pep talk, then, a good confidence boost and tell you how good you are?  
GARY CHRISTIAN:   Well, English people are not the most rah‑rah people.   I think they said, "You're doing all right.   We're very proud of you."   That's about as good as you get out of an English person.   So that was good.   So yeah, it was all right.  
   
 Q.   Can be a weird game, can't it, just where preparations aren't going great during the week and then you play well and then vice versa sometimes?  
GARY CHRISTIAN:   Yeah.   I truly might as well have stayed in bed for Monday and Tuesday and Sunday, and I would have been much more confident than going out there and practicing.   
My coach, Wayne Flynn, came into town on Monday, and same thing, I kind of felt sorry for him because I was lost and there was not much he could do when my mind wasn't quite right and my tempo was a little off, but right at the end, as I said, combination of Debra and Wayne managed to get a combination of good thoughts and good tempo.   As I said, that's all I gotta concentrate on for the rest of the week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT