THE BARCLAYS
August 24, 2012
Gary Christian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   So yesterday you said you treated this like a major?
GARY CHRISTIAN:   Yep.

Q.   Major championship venue, major field, major galleries, all of a sudden now you get to play in a major pairing, playing with Tiger tomorrow.   Talk about what that's going to be like, what you're thinking about. 
GARY CHRISTIAN:   Well, I mean, today I snuck a peak at the leaderboard.   I had about a 12‑footer for birdie on the last, and I think that messed up my concentration a little bit so I ran it about three feet past and fortunately made it.   You've got to play with these top players at some stage and I have not managed to play one yet, so I guess that's about as good as it gets.   I can't wait. 
I'm obviously playing good, and you've got to block out all the things that are going on out there.   The course is hard enough as it is without thinking about all the other stuff, and obviously I'm a realist, I'll be sitting up there and this will probably be the most nervous I've ever been standing on the first tee before.   But you've just got to overcome it, and the biggest test is can I overcome it tomorrow, and we'll see.

Q.   Are you a guy who watches the guy you're partnered with?
GARY CHRISTIAN:   No, that's probably the biggest advantage for me.   I'll never watch him hit a shot.   You just got to go in amongst your own stuff that you're trying to work on, and as I said, it's hard enough as it is without worrying about the crowd, worrying about Tiger, worrying about how he hits it and everything that comes with it.   It'll be just interesting having a thousand times more people than I've ever had watching me in my life before.

Q.   Talk about the round in general.   You did have it going.   You were real close to the top at one point, a couple late bogeys, but three off the lead. 
GARY CHRISTIAN:   Yeah, it was a shame making those couple of bogeys late.   One was from a poor shot, one was from a great shot that landed just short in a bunker and plugged and didn't get up‑and‑down.   I was really pleased how well I played today.   I think they forgot to turn the water on, so it was a major course set up like a major today.   It's such an advantage when you're hitting an 8‑iron in instead of my 5‑irons.   I did about as good as I can do.   I hit the ball about as good as I did yesterday, and it just played quite a bit harder. 
I would assume that it will be set up very similarly tomorrow, and I've just got to keep doing what I'm doing. 

Q.   What's better, if it's wet, the fairways are wet and going to run, but the greens hold a little better.   Tomorrow is going to be drier, going to be hotter, going to run a little faster. 
GARY CHRISTIAN:   I think I'd rather be closer to the green.   When it's super wet, I've got no chance on a course like this, as long as this is.   So it gives me the best opportunity I've got with the ball running 30, 40 yards if I hit a good one, and I really hit the driver good today, which is great. 
If I can just keep hitting it like that, then good things can happen. 

Q.   Tiger is limping around today, said his back is a little sore.   Maybe you can pop a couple drives past him?
GARY CHRISTIAN:   I'm hoping he'll drag out a hybrid and I might be able to bang a driver past him.   We can talk about bad backs; I've had a couple of those over the years. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT