THE BARCLAYS
August 23, 2012
Gary Christian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Just a slight stumble at the end there, but what a great way to start the tournament. 
GARY CHRISTIAN:   Yeah, I played the practice round, and my hopes weren't that high.   It's so long, and I was hitting hybrids into every hole, and I was tired and sick.   But I woke up today, was rushed from the moment I got out there.   I was too long in the fitness trailer, kind of rushed my warmup, but the last few shots I just slowed the backswing down a little bit, and I barely missed a shot for the whole day.   My irons were probably as good‑‑ it's probably as good a round as I've played probably ever on a quality course as good as this.

Q.   Tell us about specifically some of those shots that you did hit to keep the round going. 
GARY CHRISTIAN:   From the first hole I hit it straight down the middle, knocked it to eight feet and made the putt.   And then just kept hitting good shots.   Every shot on the front nine I hit perfectly.   To shoot 31 on that nine, that's about as good as I can play.   I actually left a couple out there, as well, a couple of putts that I had a chance to make.   But you know, to come out there when you've got to play good, to play good on a course as hard as that, that's about all I can ask for.   You've just got to get a good night's sleep and try and do it all again tomorrow.

Q.   After your first 18 what are your impressions of this course and this venue here at the Barclays?
GARY CHRISTIAN:   Well, I mean, I've never played in a major before, and this is to me a major.   This is my first major I've ever played in.   That's the way I'm looking at it.   The quality of field, the quality of golf course, I can imagine‑‑ I don't know how anyone‑‑ let's put it this way:   I don't know how anyone plays the week after a U.S. Open.   I can imagine you'd be pretty tired at the end of it. 
Yeah, you've just got to hit great golf shots every single shot, and yeah, you've got to get on the right side of the flag, and you've just got to manage your game.   Unfortunately I think I missed two fairways, and missing the fairway on the last showed me how hard it is if you're missing fairway the all day.   I moved it about 50 yards.   I've just got to, as I said, get out there and work on just rhythm, routine again tomorrow, and see if we can do the same again. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT