DAVIS CUP - BELGIUM vs USA
July 19, 1998
Tom Gullikson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What happened, Jim? 
 
JIM COURIER:  I just have a tired arm from a lot of tennis this weekend.  Woke up this morning, my arm was a little bit tight and sore, like a pitcher who has thrown too many pitches.  In the warm-up today I could feel a little weakness in there.  I wasn't getting much pop on my serve out there. I was trying to hit it hard, but I couldn't break 120 out there.  Normally I'm hitting 124, 125.  Just a little bit weak.  You know, there's really no reason to make a small problem into a big one in a dead rubber. 
 

Q.  Obviously, you would have been able to continue had the match meant anything, or even if it was in a tournament, you would have been able to go on?
 
JIM COURIER:  I'm more willing to risk injury when there's something on the line, for sure.  I just don't think it's wise for me to continue on playing like that.  If I  can't play comfortably out there, there's really not much point in playing. 
 

Q.  Shouldn't be a factor for Washington?
 
JIM COURIER:  I hope not.  I hope not.  I'll go get some treatment right now and rest it.  Going out and hitting more serves right now is probably the worst thing I could do for it.  I'll take it easy and hopefully it will be fresh and ready to go.  Nine sets in two days after not having played tournament tennis, much tournament tennis, for much of the spring, you know, it's a lot to ask of your arm.  You know, I'm hoping that it's just a building block for me. 
 

Q.  Can you characterize this tie for you?  You played so many now.  How did this one go for you?  It's been a bit easier road than what you all anticipated in the beginning of the season.
 
JIM COURIER:  Well, I don't know about that. Certainly was difficult in Atlanta.  Here, we got through 3-0, not without a fight. Certainly in the doubles, we could have easily gone down that match.  Fortunately, we didn't.  3-0 is a good position to be in, coming into Sunday.  Particularly when you get conditions like this, it makes it tough to play in.  You know, I think we like where we stand.  We're  into the semifinals. 
 

Q.  Is the feeling you have in your arm pretty much the same as the one you talked about in the last year?
 
JIM COURIER:  Yeah.  But it's not quite as severe. I'm hoping I can stop it before it gets out of control. 
 

Q.  Is that where you ran into trouble before, maybe keep playing with it?
 
JIM COURIER:  No.  The reason that it's hurting now is because I was over at Wimbledon again stupidly playing with those heavy balls.  You know, they're ruining my arm.  If I can avoid the Wimbledon ball, I think I'll be in good shape.  I haven't had any pain in my arm since mid February.  Then I went over to Wimbledon, and the second day I was over there, after practicing, my arm started hurting again.  I think that's clearly the variable.  It opens up a little bit of a weakness.  If the Wimbledon committee could do me a big favor and go back to normal tennis balls instead of trying to make the game slower on an impossible-to-slow-down surface, you know, I think I'd be a lot happier. 
 

Q.  If they didn't do that, do you think you'd stay away if they kept using the same ball?
 
JIM COURIER:  Probably, yeah. 
 

Q.  Have you been working on trying out different weights in your racquets?  I noticed yesterday there seemed  to be a little problem with the weight on the tip of the racquet up near the top of the head.
 
JIM COURIER:  No.  What happened the other day on Friday was that I put lead tape on my racquet, as all players do, to make them all evenly weighted and balanced. One of the pieces of lead fell off.  I had to get it put back on.  No big deal. 
 

Q.  Are you still planning on going to the Washington event?
 
JIM COURIER:  Uh-huh, yeah.  I shouldn't play before at least Tuesday there, so. 
 

Q.  Davis Cup is over.  Can you comment on what you have to look forward to there?
 
JIM COURIER:  Yeah.  Hopefully to be ready to go and fresh, you know, a little bit fresh.  I'm a little bit tired from playing tennis.  My body is a little bit beat up.  With a good day and a half's rest, hopefully I can come back.  Usually all it takes me is one day to come back of rest.  So given that today wasn't too, too physical, I think I should be okay.  I'll go in and roll the dice. 
 

Q.  Tom, could you give your impressions of the Italians, what you have to expect in September?
 
CAPTAIN GULLIKSON:  Well, Gaudenzi was injured for a while.  He's playing well this year.  David Sanguinetti is  kind of their rising star.  He got to the quarterfinals of Wimbledon on a fast court obviously.  He played college tennis in the States.  He played at UCLA actually, so he knows how to play on hard courts a little bit.  You know, they bring a certain amount of passion to the game, like all the Latins do.  You know, they'll certainly give us a very good test. 
 

Q.  Assuming everybody is healthy, are you still standing by what you said yesterday?
 
CAPTAIN GULLIKSON:  Absolutely. 
 

Q.  All four?
 
CAPTAIN GULLIKSON:  Yeah.  We'll have to look at Richey's situation.  You know, Richey has been injured a lot.  Now he's going in to get his knee scoped.  We'll see how Richey is doing.  Certainly Jim, Andre and Todd have a standing invitation.  I think they'll be ready to go.  I can't speak for them, but I hope they'll be ready to go. 
 

Q.  Jim said yesterday he wasn't coming.
 
CAPTAIN GULLIKSON:  Maybe I can give him some of Xavier's birthday cake.  Get a little sugar in him. 
 
JIM COURIER:  It's cute.  Where's the girl that pops out of it? 
 

Q.  That's the difference between an 18 year old and you. 
 
JIM COURIER:  I'm a veteran. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT