U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2014
Roman Robledo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PETE KOWALSKI: We'd like to welcome another one of our quarterfinalists for the 2014 U.S. Amateur, Roman Robledo, from Texas, and he was a 3 & 1 over Bryson DeChambeau, Texas college guys getting together in the third round of the U.S. Amateur, and you were the winner.  What was the difference?   ROMAN ROBLEDO: Well, I carried my momentum on from playing Robby Shelton earlier in the morning.  Felt good, I was relaxed and I was playing well toward the end against Robby.  Everything kind of fell into place, hit some really good shots down the stretch, and fortunate enough to make more than a good amount of putts. Both players were unbelievably such good golfers.  I've played with them quite often and they played outstanding golf, outstanding golf and very fortunate coming out on top.   PETE KOWALSKI: Someone tells you you are going to play against those two guys in the U.S. Amateur on the same day and you're going to beat them both, what does that say about your game?   ROMAN ROBLEDO: It's pretty solid right now.  I mean, I feel pretty confident in my game right now.  There's a few things that I need to work on in my opinion.  I gave a few shots away.  But overall, I have played some solid golf, and both guys did, as well.  I made a few putts when I needed to, and like I said, they are both outstanding golfers and very fortunate to have played alongside them today.   Q.  Does it make you more comfortable to play against guys that you know, knowing what you're up against?  ROMAN ROBLEDO: In a way it does, yes, but it's golf.  You never know what's going to happen.  I played with Robby once at Querencia for the Cabo Collegiate.  Played with him in the last round, and I play with Bryson quite often.  We are both from Texas and we both play for Texas schools. In a way it was a little more comfortable but you just never know what you're going to get.  Robby made a bunch of putts that I just felt like they were phenomenal putts and really to be honest, I thought some of those were going to go in. Yeah, I think in a way, it did make me feel a little more comfortable that I knew their game a little better.  But like I said, it's golf and you never know what you're going to get.   PETE KOWALSKI: How about the turning point in both of the matches; you were 2-down to Robby and also the match against Bryson.  What were the points where you felt it turned in your favor?   ROMAN ROBLEDO: The turning point I would say would be kind of the 6th hole when I started to feel a little bit more better with my swing and more confident with my swing, I should say.  I hit some good shots but started feeling (indiscernible) with my driver.  I've been rolling it really good, so that definitely helps. But I mean, I just continue with my mind-set and really didn't worry about what he was going to do, unless I kind of needed to, what you need to game plan, in a sense.  I just continued with my mind-set and continued to play my game.   PETE KOWALSKI: When you qualified, did you feel something when you got here, that maybe something good was going to happen for you?   ROMAN ROBLEDO: Yeah, I was fortunate enough to be inside the Top-50, so I didn't have to qualify.  But when I got here, I have my uncle on the bag, basically who, has been my mentor, my swing coach.  He brought me up playing golf.  I idolized him, and I mean, yeah, him being on the bag definitely helps a ton because he knows my game in and out, and it's been really fun having him on the bag.   PETE KOWALSKI: One of the great attributes of the golf course is the greens, and you're rolling is; so if you hit it online, it's going to go in.   ROMAN ROBLEDO: Yeah.   PETE KOWALSKI: So that's a great combination for you obviously.   ROMAN ROBLEDO: Yeah, that's really good.  My uncle and I both read putts pretty well and it's good to have someone that can also reassure you that this putt goes this way or this putt goes a little slower; yeah, if you just put some good roles on it, yeah, you're going to make a lot of putts.   PETE KOWALSKI: Well done.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT