PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2010
Simon Kahn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Not the finishing you like but can you assess the round for us?  
 SIMON KAHN: Yeah, on the hole it was really a good day. In that wind when we started out this afternoon it started really getting up and stayed pretty constant all afternoon. The course really showed teeth today.  
 Saying that you still got birdie opportunities and you just got to play the hard holes well. Generally all the way around I did that, probably 15, I was delighted with that, and then just didn't hit a good tee shot off 16 and you're up against it on that hole today when you hit it in the rough. I could only hit a wedge out of the rough. That's not the hole that you want to be going in with a 3-iron.   
 And the last [check] a shame I missed my second shot a little bit. I hit a good putt and I thought I was going to keep turning, I thought it was going to keep curving and it stopped turning. But it was a good day.  
  
  Q. Talk about your ball striking particularly in the beginning of the round. You got pretty hot?  
 SIMON KAHN: Yeah it was quite solid. My driver cracked this morning after one hole. I hit my tee shot on 18 when we restarted and the face cracked. So I pulled out my replacement driver but I haven't hit it before and I struggled with it to be honest, a little bit today. I had a couple good tee shots with it, but it's the same setup, but it never quite feels the same, but TaylorMade, they did a good job of getting me a replacement last week and I just got to get used to it a little, that's all.  
  
  Q. 5-under how do you feel going into the weekend now?  
 SIMON KAHN: Yeah good. I mean it's -- don't know what the wind's going to do. If the wind stays up, you know, it brings everyone closer together, I suppose. So I quite enjoy playing in the wind and obviously growing up playing links golf in the U.K., you know, especially the iron shots. So moving the ball around. So if it stays this way then I'm looking forward to the weekend, yeah.   
  
  Q. Overall how do you feel about the state of your game after the win last month at the BMW, now contending here, how do you feel about the general state of your game?  
 SIMON KAHN: Yeah I knew I got into the tournament on Tuesday at Firestone. So it was fantastic just to be here. Yeah, to win at Wentworth was fantastic. It's our flagship event on the TOUR, just behind The Open, behind The Open Championship, obviously, but it's a big event to win and that was fantastic. But you just got to keep moving on and actually hearing Graeme talk about his win after the U.S. Open, you know, getting over it and you got to draw a line under it somewhere and then keep playing.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT