WNBA FINALS: MONARCHS v SUN
September 15, 2005
Brooke Wyckoff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Talk about the euphoria when you got that tie-breaking 3-pointer, it must have just been an ecstatic feeling that you became the hero of this game, and then later on let the team coast into overtime with a victory. 

BROOKE WYCKOFF:  Yeah, I mean, it was just -- first it was a feeling of relief being like, you know, we were back in the game and that I actually hit the shot and wasn't the dork that missed it at end with the wide open shot.  But, yeah, it's a great feeling.  This is what you play the game for is moments like that.  So it was exciting, definitely. 

Q.  Coach said that you were not the first option on the 3-pointer, how did you read the play? 

BROOKE WYCKOFF:  Well, I mean, I pretty much knew when he drew it up, he had me going to be the furthest player from the ball, and basically when he draws plays up, he says, "Whoever gets the ball, he says you have this option, this option, this option."  Basically everybody is spread out on the 3-point line.  And when he drew it up and had me going all the way away from the ball, I kinds of had a feeling, just based on how Sacramento plays, they play really aggressive defense towards the ball and I knew they would probably be keying in on all of our great shooters, Douglas and Sales, towards the ball.  So I had a sneaking suspicion like maybe I'll be open, maybe I should be ready to do this.  And you know, I just watched it all develop like in slow motion, just seeing Taj bounce it twice, look, decide not to shoot and then find me, lock eyes and just here it comes, you know. 

Q.  Could you just talk about sitting out the entire year last year and watching the playoffs and what it felt like now?

BROOKE WYCKOFF:  I mean, it's great.  I've been saying, you know, all season, I couldn't have drawn this up any better or written it any better.  Just to be the type of player that I am, you know, I'm not one of the marquis players, but just to have a team, the Connecticut Sun, everybody in the organization just believed in me and said, look, we're going to stick with you, you're going to get better, you're going to be an important part of this team, and just to be able to come back to a team that reaches the WNBA Finals, it's a dream, you know, just to come off an injury like an ACL tear and step back into this situation.  So, it's great. 

Q.  Did you get a sense of deja vu because 24 hours earlier, Lindsay missed tying the game, from almost the same spot?

BROOKE WYCKOFF:  That's true.  That did happen.  I mean, and it's just, you know, that's the way basketball is.  Sometimes they go down and sometimes they don't.  I mean, as long as you get off a good shot, you can't ask for anything else. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT