NCAA WOMEN'S COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
May 30, 2019
Taran Avelo
Sami Reynolds
Heather Tarr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Arizona-3, Washington-1   
THE MODERATOR: We are joined by Washington.   
Sami, could you talk about your home run, obviously a big moment for you, your first College World Series game, you hit a home run.  Tell us about that at-bat and what that means to you.   
SAMI REYNOLDS: That at-bat was kind of a pivotal moment for me.  I knew what I was hunting.  I just took advantage of it when it happened.  It was exciting.  The game was a new game after that, so we just moved on.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athletes.   
 Q.  Taran, you guys have had a lot of success against Arizona in the last couple years.  What was the difference today?  You had two wins against them earlier this season.  
TARAN ALVELO: I mean, it's postseason.  It's a whole different kind of ballgame when you go into postseason.  I mean, it was an eight-inning game.  There were a lot of good pitches in a lot of good spots.  Sometimes things just don't fall your way.   
But just the way the game goes.  We have to find our way back, and I know we will.   
 Q.  As a senior, what can you do to get over this game and start looking ahead?  
TARAN ALVELO: It's already behind me.   
 Q.  Did you say anything to your teammates, take a leadership role?  
TARAN ALVELO: Yeah, we're ready to go.  We were talking about it, it's not over for us.  It's one game.  We have a road ahead of us and we're ready, one pitch at a time.   
 Q.  Coach, this is the type of game you have played in Oklahoma City the past three years.  This one didn't go your way.  Is it almost a coin flip with who gets the pitch?  
HEATHER TARR: In terms of?   
 Q.  When you get into the game, it shortens up, a tie game, when you notice there's going to be one of those moments where the game it made.  
HEATHER TARR: You can be, like, elated or just devastated in one pitch.  What an opportunity.  It's hard, but sucks when it doesn't go your way.  It's really fun when it does go your way.   
We've gone through a lot of good things.  We were one pitch away from maybe knocking a couple of those out, too.  They didn't go out, unfortunately for us.  We could have been on this side of it happy.   
But it's the game.  You got to love it for what it is.   
THE MODERATOR: Ladies, you are excused.  We'll continue with questions for Coach Tarr.   
 Q.  What do you do tomorrow to get the team ready for the next game?  
HEATHER TARR: We'll probably practice.  Go eat, spend a little time with the families.  Get ready for the next one.  Got a long way to go.   
 Q.  Do you feel comfortable about your team's mindset going into the next game, they can put this behind them?  
HEATHER TARR: Yeah, you got to take a hit, recover.  We're not happy.  But we'll get over it.  Get another game to play Saturday.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
HEATHER TARR: We're just glad we get to play again.  It would be awful if that was our last game.  We're happy we get to play again.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT