MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 12, 1999
Ken Griffey Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Ken, would you address the recent rumors that you've asked to be traded? First of
all, is that true?

KEN GRIFFEY, JR.: Ever since the article came out about the League not being able to
afford Alex or I, I think teams that have always respected that, that's where we're going
to do. People write things saying I want this, I want that, but like I've always said, I
have a contract until the end of next year, and when I decide to leave I think I'll pretty
much make it known to everybody, not just one group.

Q. Ken, as a left-handed hitter, what is your philosophy to the wall here?

KEN GRIFFEY, JR.: Well, I don't change my approach to hitting, I try to stay back up
the middle and if it is outside, try to hit it off the wall, if it's inside, I try to hook
it around that pole. I don't think I change that much when I come here.

Q. What's the name of your three year old?

KEN GRIFFEY, JR.: Taryn, T-a-r-y-n.

Q. Is baseball becoming too offensive, if so is it good or bad for the game?

KEN GRIFFEY, JR.: Well, I don't think it's becoming too offensive. I think guys are
bigger, stronger and faster. I can go to a cage or any hitter can go to a cage and work
out three or four hours on hitting or go to a gym and lift weights. But a pitcher, he
can't go out in his backyard and have a catcher available to him as easy as a guy going to
a cage and hitting. So I think the guys are coming into Spring Training in shape, instead
of going to Spring Training to get in shape. Guys are working harder all year-round, not
just in the spring.

Q. Ken, could you comment on Juan Gonzalez's condition not to come if he's not going to
start in the All-Star Game?

KEN GRIFFEY, JR.: That's Juan's decision. I don't know what he's thinking. I'm not him,
so I can't comment on what he wants to do. I know yesterday that he spent some time with
his sick daughter. That's all I know.

Q. Ken, could you give me your read on what happened in that 6th inning yesterday? Was
it frustration building up and the fact that I guess Charles and Brien are both hurt?

KEN GRIFFEY, JR.: We had a little mishap (laughter.) I think sometimes it gets
frustrating and things like that happen. We try to resolve them as quick as possible
without losing. We lost Charles Gipson and we don't know how long Hunter is going to be
out or if he's going to be out. Sometimes things like that can get a team back together.
And I know yesterday after what happened a lot of guys were helping each other on and off
the field.

Q. Given Pedro's numbers, he's overwhelmingly the best in the American League, if you
look at the statistics, is he the most dominating pitcher you've faced in a long time?

KEN GRIFFEY, JR.: Yeah. I've faced him twice, and both times basically just said I can
do it. He's going to come after you, and he knows how to pitch. If he gets in trouble he
knows what he has to do to get out of it.

Q. Ken, you mentioned the Home Run Derby, it messes up your swing, are you doing it for
the fans?

KEN GRIFFEY, JR.: They haven't asked me. I don't know. I haven't heard.

Q. If asked would you participate?

KEN GRIFFEY, JR.: That I don't know. A lot has to do with how I feel today at the
ballpark. I've got to start running, and see how my knee -- I've been playing with a sore
knee for the last three weeks, and see how that works.

Q. What are your thoughts about facing Randy possibly in the game Tuesday and also I
guess the following weekend?

KEN GRIFFEY, JR.: I don't know. I haven't really thought of it. It's an All-Star Game,
and it's supposed to be fun. So I'll go out there and they'll throw their best and we'll
throw our best, and see what happens after that. 

Q. Ken, you've been here many times before, have you ever had thoughts about rather
having three days off or does this not lose the glamour?

KEN GRIFFEY, JR.: It never losses its glamour, simply for the fact that the fans pick
you. It's not just someone, the coach, the manager having something to say, it's the fans
who go out of their way to punch your name out on the ballot. So that in itself is an
honor. Since they do it like that, it never losses the glamour. About the three days off,
I've had 73 days off with a broken hand, 20 days off the following year. I've had enough
time off.

Q. Your thoughts about playing such a big game in a special park like Fenway?

KEN GRIFFEY, JR.: That's a good question. I never really thought of that. It's a
classic. And no matter where you play it, it's still the same. But there are certain
ballparks that have a lot of tradition behind it, and this is one of them. And before they
tear it down they're having an All-Star Game here, so this is probably an important moment
for a lot of us, and as we go out there, maybe take something, chip some paint off the
wall, stick it in the bag and take it home. There's something that I will take out of this
ballpark before I leave.

Q. Hank Aaron has said if there's anybody that can break his record he thinks it's you.
Does that mean something special, did you ever dream about breaking his record?

KEN GRIFFEY, JR.: I've never really thought about that. The person that I wanted to
beat was my dad, over 2,000 hits, World Championships, played every day, played hard,
played hurt, and that's the only person that I patterned my game after was him, because
that's the person I wanted to beat, because he was the guy that I can physically touch.
Now they're talking about me breaking Hank Aaron's record, and I just say, okay. It's an
honor that he says it and you people say it, but I still take one day at a time and see
what I can do to help my team. I come to situations, and our manager said just bunt, so
I've got to do what's best for the team, and take whatever opportunity I have. If I hit
one out, I hit one out, if I don't, I can still go out there and play defense. I take more
pride in my defense than I do swinging a bat, because defense is probably the most -- I
can show more emotion playing defense than I can playing offense, without getting hit in
the head (laughter.)

Q. Ken, your reaction to last year's home run chase between McGwire and Sosa, were you
disappointed you dropped off the pace at the end of the season?

KEN GRIFFEY, JR.: No, not disappointed, because I gave it a hundred percent on what I
had. And that's all I can do. I'm the one who has to look in the mirror the next day or
any other day and ask myself, did I give a hundred percent; yes, I did give a hundred
percent. It was a lot of fun to watch. Every time you turned on the TV somebody was
getting excited. And I think that was a lot of fun not only for myself to watch but for
baseball. After making an out and turning on the TV in the clubhouse and there's go Sammy,
there goes Mark. And to turn around in the outfield every time you hit one and watch it on
the big screen.

Q. Ken, talk about when you played -- how enjoyable was it to play with your dad?

KEN GRIFFEY, JR.: I got to do something that no one else has done, and that's to get
out there and run around in the outfield, I got to go to work with my dad, basically. The
first game we had a little bet for dinner, whoever got the first hilt, the other person
had to pay, but I had a chance to tie. We both got singles off our first bat. It was a lot
of fun. He was my dad, first. So he would pick me up and take me to the ballpark. And it
was just like going to Little League games, for him, some days he didn't play, but he
still got to go out there and cheer. And he was the first at bat, and I was saying let's
go dad. And I turned around and said to the bench, "What are you laughing at?"
And they said, "This is the first time we heard Dad, let's go Dad." Usually
it's, "Let's go, Ken." But I got to call him dad for six weeks.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT