KIA CLASSIC
March 26, 2021
Wei-Ling Hsu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Pretty nice 69.  Got off to your front nine, which was why you back nine, two bogeys, but then absolutely lit on fire on the front nine.
 What changed for you?  Did anything?
 WEI-LING HSU:   I don't know.  I don't really play comfortable in the front nine and feel a little bit afraid.  So I told my caddie, Hey, I got a little afraid, and he let me know, Hey, this is just second round.  You competing with the best golfer on the tour.  You shouldn't be afraid.  You already had a really good career.  You should just go for it.
 I kind of listened to that and try to bring it back in back nine.  So after -- I mean, after front nine I told my caddie that I try -- I'm going to try make three birdie on the back, which is even better right now.
 Q. You did that.  Three birdies and an eagle.
 WEI-LING HSU:   Uh-huh.
 Q. Including birdie on 3; eagle on 4; birdie on 5.  Could you tell us about that stretch?
 WEI-LING HSU:   Yeah, No. 3, par-3, I kind of short and I should have saw Mi Hyang Lee's ball.  She kind of bounced back using the slope.  I was like, okay, so I can really go for it for this shot.
 So I had really good 50-degree and had like only one foot left, easy birdie.
 And the second, No.4, I had 140 to the pin.  I had very good 8-iron and Mi Hyang just yelling and volunteer on the green there are just yelling.  I have no idea because I'm little short, I can't see it.
 But at that time my ball went in and I was just so happy.
 No. 5 just another 90 yard -- 90 yard to the pin.  I hit a pretty good -- I will say five feet and made that putt.
 Q. Awesome.  Well you're in the Top 5 heading into the weekend.  What are your plans here for attacking the course this weekend, particularly tomorrow, moving day?
 WEI-LING HSU:   Well, it's moving day, anything can be possible.  I just hoping that in the weekend I can just play the way I was playing in the back nine.  Don't be afraid.  Just be whatever you want and make the shot.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT