SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 30, 2019
Wei-Ling Hsu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Can you just start by describing what it's like playing in your home country this week?  
WEI-LING HSU: I think it's a little bit different feeling because you've got all your family and your sponsor or everything. They are supporting you. It's actually made me more strong. I feel like last year, there's so many fans that walk around with me, and whenever I hit a bad shot, they had my back and feel like, hey, there's nothing that you can quit that fast. You're supposed to be strong and play some good shots for them and show them what you can do. I think it's really helping me for my game.   
With those high expectations, it's really -- I'm very happy that they look at me like, hey, you can do this; that it feels like they give me a lot of expectation, but at the same time, I feel like I just need to play step by step and play my game. At the end of the day, like holding the trophy at the final round, that's most important. So as long as I can get that and play my game, everything will be good.   
 Q.  How difficult is it, especially for you playing here, with all the pressure on you, most of the fans are here to see you and the galleries will be following you this week. How do you manage that pressure?  
WEI-LING HSU: Like last year, I think I had a very good experience. It's like a couple thousand people are following me, and I just thank all my supporters, and just like my family, they are here for me. I try to be like nice to everybody because I'm really thankful for them to come out. So just feel like, you know, big family and just have fun and enjoy the tournament. That's all I can do. Just show them how much I grow up from, you know, amateur or junior.   
 Q.  Are you staying with family this week at home?  
WEI-LING HSU: Actually, my house are very, very close to the hotel. Actually on the same road. But I stay in the hotel this week because my mom's friend are coming to my house. They took my bed.   
 Q.  Your mom's friend did?  
WEI-LING HSU: No, my brother, actually.   
 Q.  Your brother is sleeping in your bed this week, so you had to get a hotel?  
WEI-LING HSU: I think it's okay. It will still be quiet. I can still go home.   
 Q.  What are some things that you'll do, knowing you don't really get to come back here that often, that you'll do this week, maybe off the golf course? Certain restaurant or anything?  
WEI-LING HSU: Nothing very exciting for me probably to see, to show players that's where I live like off-season, that's what I do. Probably just hang out with friends and have a couple food that I always like. Just relax.   
 Q.  What's your favorite home dish?  
WEI-LING HSU: Favorite, you can get a lot of food in convenience store. I think Taiwanese convenience store are awesome.   
 Q.  Is that something you miss on the road?  
WEI-LING HSU: Is that weird? And also some like local food or maybe my mom's cooking.   
 Q.  Will your mom cook for you this week?  
WEI-LING HSU: I hope so.   
 Q.  And just quickly, the golf course here, we didn't pray here last year, but how does this one set up for you?  
WEI-LING HSU: I think this course a little bit challenging of distance because the wind and some, you know, there's some new holes that you need like very specific carry number.   
So like I haven't played a practice round yet, but when I go out there, I think I need more focus on those distance, especially some like 15 or 17 or some kind of par 3, you need to carry the big bunker. So I think that's the main thing I'm doing this practice round.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT