CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 29, 2019
Wei-Ling Hsu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  6-under is a pretty nice way to start the tournament; how are you feeling right now?  
WEI-LING HSU: I feel really good. Hit the ball really solid, and especially on No. 6, the par-5, I had a really long chip shot and holed out that one for eagle, so I was very happy with what I did today.   
 Q.  Tell me what happened with the eagle.  
WEI-LING HSU: So that's the par-5, and hit down the middle of the fairway, and second shot just left it like 30 yards in front of the green. I had like I think -- yeah, 30 into the green, and I hit a 9-iron pitch shot and just had a good roll and made it.   
 Q.  Did you get to see it go in?  
WEI-LING HSU: Yeah, I did. It was straight at it. I'm like, oh, my God, this is going in, and it did.   
 Q.  I've been hearing great things about the golf course; how is it looking out there?  
WEI-LING HSU: I think I played this morning when the greens were actually softer, so the roll is a little bit slower than it used to be, and especially the last three holes because the sun started coming out and it started to dry out, and the greens were actually getting tougher the last couple holes. But I really liked the conditions.   
 Q.  You've had some really, really good moments this year. How are you playing? Has there been any difference in your game?  
WEI-LING HSU: Well, actually I feel a lot of expectation this year because last year I had almost my best season of my career, and been really up and down this year. But it's all about stress. Like the past two months I've tried to play good, but it's like way too much pressure. So before last week I kind of got rid of that and started playing my golf, Wei-Ling's golf. So being very happy and enjoyable on the golf course.   
 Q.  Are you doing anything specific to get rid of that pressure?  
WEI-LING HSU: I think it really helps me when I play British Open, I play really good on first round but I shot 4-over. I was very upset, disappointed. I was crying after a round, crying so hard, and I felt like I couldn't do this, like why even try so hard to play like 4-over. And I think that's the moment I recognized I don't need to be working like way too hard to hit a good shot. You know, just be relaxed and fully in myself. That's all I need. I kind of put myself in that situation when I played the Scottish Open, and it worked out pretty good. So I'm like -- I think that's the key. So I kind of kept doing it and had a good week last week. Maybe not Sunday, but get there, almost get there.   
 Q.  So you almost allowed yourself to relax?  
WEI-LING HSU: Yeah, I kind of allowed myself to hit a bad shot, to relax in the practice round, because two months ago I would do the whole rotation, and whatever I need to practice I have to do it, get the work done. So I'm okay right now to -- whatever I feel great, then I'm okay to go home.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT