SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 27, 2018
Wei-Ling Hsu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It was kind of like a grind, right?  What do you think today's round was like for you?  
WEI-LING HSU: Very beginning, the first three or four holes, I had a lot of nerves because I saw like tomorrow people around and I was a little more like hoping I could play very well today.   
But you know, today is a windy day, so it's pretty hard for the course, and especially the wind kind of swirling around.  I know today is going to be a little bit tough than the past two days, so I kind of just stay patient.  Overall I kind of -- my ball, hitting it solid, steady.  Just stay there.   
 Q.  Do you think today was a good preparation for tomorrow?  
WEI-LING HSU: It is, because I've never had that much people around me.  Like I said, I'm nervous the first few holes because I've never seen that happen around me before.  It's very good preparation for me tomorrow because tomorrow is going to be very crowded, Sunday.   
I think what I learned today, just I can bring to help like tomorrow's game, that I'm not going to get that nervous like today.   
 Q.  Do you think it was tougher?  You started out with a bogey on the first hole.  Do you think that made things tougher just right from the beginning?  
WEI-LING HSU: Because I was nervous and I think it's not a bad thing for me to bogey on the very first hole.  Just kind of remind myself, hey, you need to come back into the game.  It's not like outside and see those people.   
 Q.  And then how important was that par that you had on 16, hitting in the water off the tee?  
WEI-LING HSU: I hit very good but just like distance problem.  I should have hit 5-wood but at the end, finally I just decide to hit the 3-wood, which is into the water.   
Me and my caddie kind of decide what kind of second shot she want to be, because we can drive as far as we can.  It's just between 9-iron and 8-iron, and finally I decide 8.  I hit an 8-iron into the green.  I hit it very solid, right at the pin.  But the ball is not really like stopping.  So the ball kind of went over.  I had like six pace for the putt, and then I may get that one.  That was very huge for me.   
 Q.  That was No. 16?  
WEI-LING HSU: Yes.   
 Q.  Is this like a situation that you always dreamed of being in, leading a tournament?  
WEI-LING HSU: Well, because even -- I think this is eight years that like Taiwan championship, in Taiwan, that maybe the title sponsor changed.  But I still remember my very first time to watch the LPGA event, and Yani is the world No. 1 and we're at a different course.  I'm one of the fans following her around and I saw those people, it's just like incredible, like amazing.  I was like, wish there's some day that I was able inside the rope and people are cheering for me.   
It's very cool that when you make the putt, you make the birdie, especially on 16 when I save that par, the people are just like yelling and so happy for me.  I definitely feel so much support that I never had.   
 Q.  So you were there?  Did you go every day?  
WEI-LING HSU: I went every day.  Every single day.  I remember we had like 66,000 people for that week for the four-day round, and it was just going crazy at that time.   
 Q.  Have you ever talk to Yani about that?  Did you ever tell her like, I was in the crowd?  
WEI-LING HSU: I think she knows that.  At that time I was cheering for Yani and Ai my I can't Saturday toe.  Sometimes, you know, Yani is way too much people, so I was like, for my height, a little hard to see her shot.  I was like, maybe I'll watch somebody else.   
 Q.  How long have you guys known each other?  
WEI-LING HSU: We met a very, very long time ago, like maybe when I was eight or nine, but we are not really talking with each other.   
 Q.  Different age?  
WEI-LING HSU: Yeah, different age.  She's like five years older than me.  But like when I get on to LPGA where I turn professional, we got more chance to meet each either.  That's what we get to know each other like better than before.   
 Q.  And how have you been spending your evenings this week after you finished on the golf course?  
WEI-LING HSU: Every day kind of finish late.  After autograph and all the interviews, it's almost like 4, 5 o'clock, so I don't do much.  Every time when I'm back to room, I was just so hired.  Just take a shower.  I don't even practice, because you know, so tired.  Plus the first two days, very humid and hot.  So not much, just rest.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT