SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 26, 2018
Wei-Ling Hsu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A fantastic round today.  You must be thrilled.  
WEI-LING HSU: I feel very great.  I had a bogey-free round today, and I really hit the ball well, and putting was good.  I hit the ball solid.  So overall, I'm really happy for my round today.   
 Q.  You have been providing us with lots of highlights.  Yesterday you said the mental side, you needed to steady yourself a bit.  How was that today?  
WEI-LING HSU: I'm doing very great today.  I just kept taking one shot at a time and just focus on my game, don't look around.  Like don't pay attention to the scoreboard.  I was doing pretty good today.   
 Q.  And do you have anyone in the crowd?  They were certainly getting behind new your home nation?  
WEI-LING HSU: It was like very cool.  That's the most people around me that I've ever had.  I'm very happy that all the fans came out and watched and got a lot of support.   
 Q.  Now, you contended early in the season, first event in the Bahamas.  What did you learn from that that you can put into play this weekend?  
WEI-LING HSU: Well, a lot of times, I was just too, like, attention on the score.  I learned a lot from that, that I should take one shot at a time and just keep playing and focus on my game.  I think that's the most important.   
 Q.  Another good day for you out there.  What was the key again for you today?  
WEI-LING HSU: I think I hit the ball really solid today, so I put a lot -- I gave myself a lot of chance to putt.  My putting has been really good these first two days, and especially I got a long putt on No. 12 from outside the green and like 12 pace, I holed out.   
The putting just gave me a lot of confidence, because the greens are very soft.  I was able to aim like straight at the pin.  So overall, very happy for my putting and hitting the ball.   
 Q.  So plan of attack, you've been going for pins?  
WEI-LING HSU: Yeah, a lot of the holes, the ball is able to stop.  So I can just, no worry.   
 Q.  You said you made one long putt.  Is that the only one you made?  
WEI-LING HSU: Yeah, pretty much like really long one.  The rest, the birdies, like five pace, and yeah, but I'm 9-under right now but there's 7-under on the par 5s.   
 Q.  7-under on the par 5s?  
WEI-LING HSU: Yeah.  I think most birdies coming from par 5s.  Plus the eagle from yesterday.   
 Q.  So you look toward to playing the par 5s?  
WEI-LING HSU: I think very good distance for my third shot, so I was able to hit it close.  I think I'm doing very good for my second shot to give myself a lot of chances.   
 Q.  Managing your distances really well?  
WEI-LING HSU: My second shot.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you need to birdie the par 5s when you get around to them?  
WEI-LING HSU: I'm not really thinking about that.  I feel like every hole is a chance.  Maybe a couple holes are really hard, but just play the golf.  I mean, one type of shot, you don't know.  Just like 12 is a long par 4, and I hit it over the green.  Only what I think is just right next to cup and save the par.  I didn't know it was going to go in the hole, but that's golf.   
 Q.  Seemed like more people are starting to come and the crowd is getting bigger every day.  How exciting is that?  
WEI-LING HSU: It's very cool.  This is the most fans around me.  I don't have that chance before.  So it's pretty cool that everybody is cheering for me and they are like, "Good luck" and like "Go get it, Wei-Ling," something like that.  Pretty cool that people are cheering for me and really supporting.  I was very happy they came out to watch, because usually the Taiwan event, it's a links-style golf course rainy and windy and finally we got good weather this week.  So I'm very happy to see them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT