SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 24, 2018
Wei-Ling Hsu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What is it like being here, playing in your home country?
WEI-LING HSU: It's very cool, but I don't really play on this course.  I don't have many events I've played on this course.  It's pretty cool to have such a big event and coming to here, and you know, this golf course is so quiet, and so -- like you can very enjoy the golf right here.  Got to see all the friends and like all the sponsor because they been support us like so many years, so it's very happy to see them.
Q. Have you played here before this week?
WEI-LING HSU: Like two times in my life.  Two or three times.  Not many.
Q. What do you feel like you need to do well here?
WEI-LING HSU: Do well, because they have a lot of like tee shots there's a bunker around, but you cannot really like take 3-wood or 5-wood, try to lay up a little further, because the second shot is going to be like, what, 180.
So you definitely have to hit a good driver, and then I think some of the greens are really tricky because probably there's a lot of holes like one side slope, but it's just really hilly and very sidehill.  So you have to play with the speed.
I think putting probably is the main thing for like all the players because into the grain is really slow but downgrain is like super fast.  So you have to imagine that speed very well.
Q. You have to be able to see the grain on the greens?
WEI-LING HSU: Yes.
Q. You said you're seeing some friends this week.  Do you have people coming out to watch you?
WEI-LING HSU: Yeah, I kind of ask for tickets for my friends.  Probably I have like 20, 30 friends that are coming out to watch me play.  You know, they did pretty good last year, and more people were able to see this event.  So getting more people wanting to come to the course, and including some of my friends that they have never been to the course, they are like, hey, can I have a ticket or where do I get a ticket.  So I said, you guys should come, the weather should be perfect.
Q. And Swinging Skirts is one of your sponsors.  How do you enjoy playing in a tournament that they are sponsoring?
WEI-LING HSU: Swinging Skirts have been supporting Taiwan golf for a while, no matter amateur or professional golf tournament.  They are always supporting us, and being part of Swinging Skirts -- because they are an amateur group, and they are very passionate about golf.  So when you be part of Swinging Skirts, they really give you positive thoughts and always like happy, enjoy golf, and you know, this is very healthy and very -- you can make friends on the course in that kind of sport.  It's not just about competition.  Very happy to be part of them.
Q. What have you been working on with your game recently?
WEI-LING HSU: Recently, a little bit swing because I played well in Evian.  I went back to Taiwan for two weeks, a little break.  When I played in Korea, my distance was off, like a little short and low.  I couldn't adjust.  So I'm kind of working on a little bit my swing because I don't hit the ball solid as before.  So I try to don't think about the distance.  Just think about my swing first, and the distance will be coming back.
Q. What about your entire year?  How have you felt about the whole year?
WEI-LING HSU: I feel very good.  It's very up-and-down for me because I've got a couple Top-10s and then a lot of missed cuts, but overall, I'm very happy to see I was able to make those great scoring, great result that just gave me a lot of ability that I was able to get to the level and get to the Top-10, whatever.  I think it's part of learning for this year, so hopefully next year, I can be more, like stable, consistent.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT