MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 16, 2015
Wei-Ling Hsu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Yesterday in the Pro‑Am you were playing really, really well and I told you you could do this.   You seem to have quite a lot of confidence today.   Talk about your round. 
WEI‑LING HSU:   Actually my first hole didn't go that good.   Like I missed second shot.   Totally I feel my 10th hole a little strange, so I just figure out I change a little bit on the second hole.   Then I made birdie on the second and third hole.
I mean, back‑to‑back birdies, so I got so much confidence.   So I just continue to play that golf. 

Q.   What did you like about your progression on the back nine?
WEI‑LING HSU:   Actually I'm 3‑under go to the back nine, and I just thinking, Oh, just make two birdie on the back.   That's my goal. 
Definitely I want to make more, but I don't want to be too aggressive.   If I didn't play well I would feel like terrible.   So I just put my goal to make two birdie on the back and it's work. 
Just get a lot of bogey, so not my plan.

Q.   What were the greens like out there today? 
WEI‑LING HSU:   I like the green actually.   It's fast.   There is one and two hole a little bumpy, but I think it's fine.   I like 18 green.

Q.   As a tour rookie to come out, maybe you don't know how the day is gonna turn out, but near the top.   Did you feel you had that in you today? 
WEI‑LING HSU:   I have no idea.   I mean, my rookie years I just do my best, try to get (indiscernible).   I mean, I very enjoy today.   Just no pressure and just feel very enjoy it, so that's it. 

Q.   Will you feel no pressure again tomorrow having done what you did today?
WEI‑LING HSU:   Hopefully not, because I feel a lot of confident today, and I hope I can just continue that tomorrow and just enjoy my game.   Just don't look on the leaderboard and see what happens. 

Q.   How do you feel about your rookie year so far?   Pretty solid. 
WEI‑LING HSU:   I mean, I'm not a very like powerful player.   Like every single tournament is like same score, so I feel it is good.   I just miss three cuts so far.
Pretty nice. 

Q.   Obviously winning is the ultimate goal.   Just making cuts, is that kind of the goal out here? 
WEI‑LING HSU:   Like I say earlier, my goal just to staying the card, top 80, top 60. 
But definitely want to win, but I just continue to just try learn something.   It's my first year.   A lot of things to learn. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT