INDY PRO SERIES: CARNEROS 100
August 27, 2006
Jonathan Klein
Alex Lloyd
Bobby Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
 BOBBY WILSON:  Well, basically the track was pretty slick today.  I think the Grand-Am rubber had a lot to do with that.  Couldn't really get a feel for it in the early morning warm-up because we only had 10 minutes.  Had to make some changes to the car.    
 You know, I think we had a pretty good run.  The guys put together a pretty good car.  We're here in second.    
  
 BOBBY WILSON:  Yeah.  I came in here with higher expectations.  I always want to win.  You know, Alex definitely had his stuff together today.  I gave it all I had.  He did a great job.    
  
 JONATHAN KLEIN:  Yeah, you know, it was a tough race because we had speed to run with the leaders.  Maybe not Alex, but Bobby and I were pretty comparable.  You know, that just goes to show the competition in the series.  Everyone can run with each other in the front.  It's pretty impressive.    
 The team did a great job giving me a car all weekend that we could be in the top three, top four all weekend.  That's encouraging going into Chicago.  We closed the gap a little bit on Jay yet again.  We're looking to go to Chicago to win that race.    
  
 JONATHAN KLEIN:  Well, my game plan, I cannot afford any mistakes.  I have to run a perfect race at Chicago in a few weeks, make sure I finish the race.  You know, if we win, I think that pretty much sums up the championship.  If we come in second, it's going to be hard from there because of the points spread, the way that works.    
 The pressure's on.  It's going to be up to me to see if I can handle it and perform.    
  
  
  Q.  Jonathan, your view of the collision between Wade Cunningham?    
 JONATHAN KLEIN:  Nothing really.  He just kind of stuck his nose in there.  I was already committed to the turn.  That was that.    
  
  Q.  Did have you any damage from that?    
 JONATHAN KLEIN:  Just some of his paint on my right rear tire and wheel.    
  
  Q.  How do you balance school with racing over the next few weeks?    
 JONATHAN KLEIN:  Well, it's hard work.  It sucks.  I'm not a fan of school.  But, you know, I got to do it to race.  I just do it and I get my work done at school, focus on racing at the same time.  It just takes discipline.    
  
 BOBBY WILSON:  Actually, I like doubleheader weekends.  It always gives you a shot the next day.  I'm a big fan of road courses.  It's always a treat to come out here.  I enjoy this track, this facility.  I definitely like it.    
  
  
  
 ALEX LLOYD:  Just an unbelievable race.  You know, really tough race.  I knew from the first it was going to be difficult.  Yesterday we gave it everything to pass Wade.  Just couldn't do it.  I thought from fifth it was going to be really hard.  We had some close moments out there.    
 The first lap we nearly took the lead into turn one.  Got a great start.  Then the wall started closing in on me.  I stuck the car in front so I had to back up then and drop down to sixth.  I managed to get fifth at the first corner, you know, around turn two.    
 Then, it was just a matter of taking every opportunity.  You don't get many on this circuit.  I knew the first lap, people would be cautious because it was so slippy out there compared to yesterday.  I just had to take every chance I got.    
 I made some tough moves at the beginning, ones that were a little bit risky, but that's what you've got to do if you're going to overtake here.  Took my moves when we got it, got great restarts, which was a great help to get into the lead.  I nearly got it on the restart before trying the inside line.    
 And, again, the wall and the car sort of closed in on me so I had to back off.  The next time I knew that I could get a run on the outside.  I sort of measured up how his starts were.  Got a great run on the outside.  Got the run around turn one and into turn two.  You know, just a great first 10 laps.    
 After that, it looks easy after that, but that's the toughest part.  Because, you know, then you've got to control yourself, control your emotions, look after the car, pray for no yellow flags that could -- back markers, I think one of them spun off the chicane, started driving towards me, which gave me a bit of a shock about four laps to go.  I bounced over the curb and got through that.  Just hope that nothing goes wrong and that you keep you concentration because, your mind has a tendency to wander when you've got 10 laps to go and you've just got to keep focused, keep working.    
 Luckily I had the best car out there.  Everybody did such a good job.  We put together such a great car.  I had that bit of comfort in my pocket that I knew I could go quicker if I needed to.  I luckily didn't have to.  That meant that I could just keeping pushing to a certain degree at about 80%, not risk the car, not risk coming off, and not make my life a lot easier.  A big thanks to the team for that.    
  
  Q.  Alex, talk about these doubleheader weekends and staying focused for the weekend.  Are you a fan of the two races on one weekend?    
 ALEX LLOYD:  Yeah, I am a fan.  I mean, they're tough.  They are tough mentally more than anything, you know, because you're so used to racing -- having a race and that's it.  You have the emotions after one race that you've got to then control yourself because you've got another one the next day.    
 So it's tough.  They're hard weekends.  They're hard for everybody, especially when you have the inverted grid, you know, like it was today.  I mean, that can sometimes work in your favor.  It sometimes doesn't.  You could get caught up in an accident.  We might not have been able to overtake, things like that.    
 As it happened for us, you know, we just made the best of the situations that we were given today and did the best job.  I think it would have been easy to go away yesterday thinking we had a great race in second.  Because we had a doubleheader, we were able to come away with a second and a first.    
 Especially starting from where we did today in fifth, that made this race very special for us all, I think.    
  
 ALEX LLOYD:  Thank you.    
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT