PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 25, 2007
Butch Buchholz
Matt Van Tuinen
Anne Worcester
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ANNE WORCESTER:  Well, first of all, good morning.  I guess for us, yesterday was a really positive day at the Pilot Pen to produce two finals today that are so newsworthy to have the Cinderella story of the qualifier making it through qualifying and into the finals.  Agnes Szavay against No.4 Kuznetsova.  Based on our women's draw, that is probably the best outcome we could have is sort of this emerging story of Agnes Szavay.  We do think you'll hear more from her.   
 On the men's side, this all-American final is just so exciting on a number of levels.  It's exciting that we have an all-American final here at the Pilot Pen, which in the culmination of the US Open series, and on the eve of the US Open.  So I think that our final matchups are definitely the headlines.   
 Our staff is in there talking about American flags, and somebody's trying to talk me into wearing a red, white and blue gown on center court.  I probably won't go for that.  But, you know, I guess this is only the third or fourth time in the past four years that two Americans have reached an ATP Tour final.   
 Based on the investment that the USTA has made in the US Open series, which is all about generating awareness and increasing excitement about American tennis, Arlen Kantarian, the head of professional tennis should be doing the jig right now.  There's no better way to go into the US Open than to have two Americans in the final, live on ESPN, so the USTA should be proud of that.  I know we're very, very proud of that.   
 Looking back over the week, there were a lot of great stories this week, starting with Donald young winning his first professional match last Sunday and then almost upsetting our No. 1 seed.  Certainly James Blake saving three match points against Agustin Calleri, all of us thinking that he was on way to the US Open, packing his bags for the US Open.  Lindsay Davenport making her comeback to professional tennis after having a baby just ten weeks ago.   
 Unfortunately drawing the No. 1 ranked double s team in the first round, but still having a very close match.  And the ambiance and the support and the electricity in the grandstand watching that first-round doubles match, and then certainly yesterday's semis and then James again last night pulling it out in the tiebreak in the third.   
 Off the court, a lot of exciting stories behind the scenes.  We had new fashion shows featuring downtown New Haven boutiques, wine tasting, cooking lessons.  So other two rained-out session, which we can talk a little bit more about, it's been a really, really good week here at the Pilot Penn.   
  
  Q.  Considering the field, if you look at it on paper it wasn't exactly the strongest field this tournament has had in the last three years:  One of the top nine women and three of the top eight men but none of the top names, you've got to be overjoyed with the attendance and the fact that this is not just, like you said before, it's not just a tournament it's become an event.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  Yeah.  I mean, at the beginning of the week we gained Serena, we lost Serena.  We had two of the top 10.  It's definitely not the strongest women's field we've every had.  All I could hope for is there would be some emerging story, that there would be some unlikely player to get through, and it happened.   
 You know, when a player makes a breakthrough in her career at a tournament, she typically remembers it, he or she.  Anastasia Myskina made her way through qualifying and into the second round.  She still, to this day says, My breakthrough was in New Haven.  So maybe Agnes will be coming book to play the Pilot Penn for a few years.   
 So, yeah, based on our women's draw I didn't have a dream final in mind.  But I think this sort of qualifier versus the No. 1 seed is as close as it would get.   
 On the men's side, yeah.  Yeah, we had three of the top 10 and we had David Ferrer and a lot of that competition in the top 50, but we had all these young rising stars.  Gael Monfils, but then a lot of great American stories with Donald Young and John Isner especially.   
 So I guess other than Mardy/James which is, you know, an all-American final between two best friends, you know, maybe Isner/Blake would have been a great final also, you know, on two different sides because of the future of tennis.  But based on our draw on both sides, I think we got very, very lucky overall.   
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ:  Our goal 11 years ago was to make this an event.  It wasn't just a tennis tournament.  We're in the entertainment business.  Looking back, over the last ten years I think we've accomplished that.  We have people coming from -- people said, You'll never get anybody to come from Westport.  Never happen.  And, you know compliments to Anne and Mike.  They've made it an event.  That's our job.   
  
  Q.  Do you think that Champions Cup being in Newport the same week, did that hurt you at all?   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  No.  We all agree that we should promote tennis in New England.  Newport should have its own week and then Champions Cup and then Pilot Pen tennis.  All three events are good for interest in tennis, and it's not a good idea to have any of those event of against each other.  So my understanding is that they're going to change that week next year.   
  
  Q.  I think one of the tournaments this summer had some of those matches with their tournament.  I know you have enough tennis here, but is there any thought to have it merge and have maybe McEnroe play here?   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  We have more matches then we know what to do with.  For the same ticket prices as the women's only event, our fans are seeing three times the number of matches.  Rosie Casals called me this summer and said, How would you like to have the women's come, the legends?  I said, I love you guys, but I don't have room.   
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ:  I don't think they mix, to be honest with you.  I think it's --   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  I think L.A. women's did that.   
  
  Q.  I don't know.  I knew one tournament did.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  If we were a women's only event we might consider it, but we have more matches than we know what to do with right now, especially with a rain delay in the beginning much week, hypothetically.   
  
  Q.  You've had three years of the combined event.  Do you have a sense now going into the next block of years, what have you learned as far as how it is -- because it's such a big undertaking to do both.  After three years, does that give you a better sense of how it's working?   
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ:  One and one equals four.  Key Biscayne is not an accident.  And Indian Wells is not an accident.  A combined event is what the product of tennis should be.  We do as many as we can, because I think that's what the public and our sponsors want to see.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  But to your point, I know I keep learning things.  You know, for example, today we feature the women's singles followed by the men's doubles final and tonight the men's final followed by the women's doubles.  We want to feature women's doubles, so that's why we decided to put it on stadium court as opposed to grandstand or sort of hidden during the day.  We've always featured women's doubles here.   
 Well, it's not really fair to the women's doubles players who might have to go on at 10:30 at night if the men's match goes long or we have a rain delay, and then we have the ceremony.  You, know Mara Santangelo has to play Monday at the US Open.  So the players have come to me and very constructively said, We know you're trying to feature women's doubles.  You always have here and we appreciate that.  But maybe we should talk about playing at grandstand at 5:00.  And then I think of that intimate atmosphere with the Davenport/Raymond doubles against the No. 1 doubles team, and that was pretty cool in there earlier this week.   
 So that's something to look at.  And then would be a day ticket or would it be a night ticket, and then we couldn't have music.  But that's a sort of emerging issue.  Another issue is the locker rooms.  We had to split or locker room in half, but we really didn't.  We gave sort of the bigger space to the women with the smaller draw and the smaller space to the men.  The head trainer came to me and said, Could we reverse that.  That's a fair and reasonable request.  Let's look at that.  So, yes, we keep learning.  I know I do.   
  
  Q.  Getting back to Agnes for a second, have you heard or do you know how many WTA tournaments have seen a qualifier reach the final?   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  No.  But we can certainly look at that, right Matt?   
 MATT VAN TUINEN:  Yeah, I can find out.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  Didn't Amélie?   
 MATT VAN TUINEN:  I don't know last time it happened.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  We'll look at that.  You know, she's here --   
 MIKE DAVIES:  But, remember when you say qualifying, the cut off for the women is pretty high.  We only get 28 women in the main draw.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  Well when, did the draw we said, The cut off is 40, which means that the player ranked 41 in the world can't get in.  Well, that player is Agnes Szavay, and I didn't know that until last night.  Isn't that funny.   
 MIKE DAVIES:  This is a limited number of players.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  Yeah.  It's not like she's John Isner at No. 500 in the world.  As soon as I saw her this week I paid attention to her.  Not because -- Mary Carillo, welcome to New Haven.  We're talking about Agnes.  We were just saying that the cut off here is so strong.  This year it was 40, which means that the player ranked 41 in the world can't get into the main draw on her own.   
 Well, Agnes Szavay was 41 in the world ironically.  I was saying I paid immediate attention to her this week because she is here with Zoltan Kuharszky who used to coach Anke Huber in my day at the WTA.  So I knew that he would never be coming back and traveling the world as a coach unless he was very serious about this talent.  So that's what made me pay attention to her earlier in the week, and she's certainly exceeded all of our expectations by getting through qualifying and getting in today.  She played seven matches this week.  She could be through the US Open by now.   
  
  Q.  You mention Myskina as a qualifier.  You also had Henin here as a qualifier.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  Yep, Henin here as a qualifier.   
  
  Q.  I want ask you about how you get the players for the tournament.  I was wondering if it was a detriment to having the tournament so close to the US Open.  Does that hurt you in recruiting top-name players?   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  Everyone said it would hurt us on the women's side initially.  But it proved tore beneficial, because on the women's side there were enough women that knew they would play the week before the Grand Slam to give us a commitment early.  Mauresmo has been here seven times, Davenport has been here eight times, Elena Dementieva, this is her eighth visit.   
 So year in and yearly out we've always had sort of those three names in advance.  And then pretty much every year we've had at least one big name last-minute wild card because somebody loses early or is injured.  You know, Steffi Graf in 1998 lost early in Toronto, got off the court and called us and said, Can I have a wildcard?   
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ:  Traditionally it's not the best week at calendar.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  But we've been able to average five out of the top 10 women.  On the men's side we sort of went in saying, We're never going to have a top 10 player here.  Everybody just accept the fact this is going to be an entertainment event, it's going to be a combined event, we're going to bring together sports and entertainment and have a very deep competitive draw and lots of players in the top 50, but we won't have top 10 players.   
 Then James Blake exceeded everyone's expectations by winning the inaugural combined event and jumping into the top 10, and Davydenko played.  We had Baghdatis last year as our third top 10 player.  This year we had Robredo.  So they're not the biggest names in the top 10 other than Blake, but they're still pretty nice statistics to have in our first three years.   
 James Blake always said, This tournament will catch fire as the guys hear about it:  Same surface, same climate, same time zone as the US Open.  I've been really surprised.  The guys love the dining programs.  They're going to restaurants in downtown with their passports just as much as the women.   
 The polish double's team in the finals today are neck in neck to Liezel Huber to see who can go to the most restaurants in one week.  The player's services have really reported that the men are really taking advantage of all the things we like to offer for players.  I like to think that helps with the player field.   
  
  Q.  When you talk about the best week, two weeks before in Canada looks like the best week, and then they lose seven or eight players.  It almost seems like it's better to be where you are, because you have an occasional withdrawal in the middle of a match, but you don't have a ton of people leaving before the tournament.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  Yeah.   
 MIKE DAVIES:  The thing about it is there's no point in really debating this thing to death because it is what it is.  We ain't going to be able to change.  Nobody's going to change out date or give up voluntarily give up their dates in the summer for Pilot Penn.  We've got this week.  We have to do the best we can with what we've got, and we've done pretty good.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  With what was meant to be not such a great date on the calendar, we've now come to be very happy with it.  I'd much rather have players that enter last minute and play than have players that are promoted on ticket brochures and poster who withdraw.   
 We've only had three high profile withdraws in ten years.  I couldn't handle having three per year like other tournaments do.  We only have Serena for five minute, but I wouldn't want to go through that every year.   
  
  Q.  You talk about the combined events.  Cincinnati is going that route.  Five years from now do you think it's going to be the thing?   
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ:  I think there are more and more tournaments trying to do it.  You know, Memphis is doing it now, Sydney is doing it.  The goal for the ATP and the WTA at one time was to have four Key Biscaynes.  You know, they're struggling politically to accomplish that, but in my opinion that is the direction we should go.   
 And I think more and more events are looking at it and saying, you know, Men and women together is one and one equals four, five or whatever.   
 MARY CARILLO:  Don't you think a big selling point to this has been that it's sort of calm before the New York City storm?  The reputation that this place is having is that it's relaxing and intimate and cosier.  I mean, what a nice mindset to have going into New York.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  Lindsay Davenport used to say exactly that.   
 MIKE DAVIES:  And it's got a stadium that is a great stadium for --   
MARY CARILLO:  Very fan friendly.   
 MIKE DAVIES:  And the size of the stadium gets them ready for that, especially for our young girl who has never played before in as big a stadium.   
 MARY CARILLO:  Can you tell me what that kid is like?  I haven't gotten to meet Agnes.  What's her story.  What's her story?  How come all of a sudden she is who she is.   
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ:  She's got a hell of a backhand.   
 MARY CARILLO:  I've seen her play, but I don't know her personally.   
 CRAIG GABRIEL:  She started out exceptionally well in juniors, and then started to make -- I think reached a quarterfinal or semifinal of a tour tournament in 2005, and then this year it's really been a breakthrough.  Did very well.   
 MARY CARILLO:  Kuharszsky has been with her for a while?   
 CRAIG GABRIEL:  Couple years now.   
  
  Q.  Where else has she played well?   
 MARY CARILLO:  I know what she's done on the court, I'm just wondering what she's like as a kid.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  Very sweet, very shy.  We were running so late with the matches last night.  Everyone wanted to see Blake play, and we were paying tribute to Ron Shaw for having retired as the CEO and shortening that presentation.   
 Nobody expected the women's match to go two hours and two minutes between Daniilidou and Szavay, so I went on the court and she looked at me with like wide eyes like, Do I have to speak?  And I said, No.  And she was, you could see the relief because she was just overwhelmed and surprised that here she was and she had earned a spot on the final.   
 MATT VAN TUINEN:  Her English is still improving.   
 ANN WORCESTER:  Yeah, so that's why she was nervous.   
 CRAIG GABRIEL:  I think there's an innocence about her.   
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ:  Is she from Budapest?   
  
  Q.  Yes.  Anne, with everything this tournament has outside of tennis:  You have the fashion show and the music and the food court, how do you push the envelope over the next five, six years to make it more enticing for the fans to come not just for the tennis?   
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ:  Do a better job.  You know, ever year.   
  
  Q.  Do you look at other tournaments and see what they're doing and see, Oh, we can steal that and do that and bring in more new and innovative things?   
 MIKE DAVIES:  Sure.  We look at everything and we get lots of suggestions.  But the suggestions, a lot of the suggestions we've thought about and a lot of the suggestions are not practical.  You know, a lot of people talk about having concerts.  Well, you know I'm not too big on concerts in this stadium.   
 Financially it does not make sense.  We get lots of problems with the local people around here.  We got a problem that this is a tennis-built stadium.  This is not a stadium for other things.  This is a stadium that, you know, is hard to use.   
 People always come up with, why don't you do this or why don't you do that?  But the practicalities of it, when you get down to the devil's in the details, and putting on something that you have to build an infrastructure with it that's going to be so cost, you know, effective it's just not on.   
  
  Q.  I didn't mean like outside of tennis, I mean like during week.   
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ:  For example, we took the Sony Ericsson bar concept that we've done in Key Biscayne and brought that here.  That seems to be a big success.   
  
  Q.  You had the clinic thing?   
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ:  Right.  Some of the things that we do.  And we obviously learn from each other.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  Yeah.   
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ:  Also I think the USTA as the US Open Series gets stronger and better and they bring in more sponsors we're going to have able to co-promote and do things.  All we're going to try to do every year is raise the bar a little bit higher, so that when 100,000 people leave here they say, That was a fun experience.  I had a good time.  The people were nice.  The food was good.  The retail was good.  I'm going to go back.  That's our goal and our job.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  To answer your question, we do keep trying -- we do try to improve our off-court entertainment every year.  Kids' Day is ten years old, but I think it's gotten better every year.  Latino Day has gotten better.  Girl Scout Day has gotten better.  We keep learning.  But we also try and look at trends.  When there was a Beanie Baby trend we gave Beanie Babies with Pilot Penn T-shirts to the first 5,000 spectators.  There is a national mania around food and wine, so we introduced a wine tasting last year.  This year it was even better.  We have a cooking lesson with a celebrity chef.  This year it was year two but it was even better than year one.   
 Yes, I think we'll try and do everything that we currently do and do it better, but I do constantly challenge our staff to look at trends.  We have a 13,500 seat stadium out there and we're never going to fill it with hard-core tennis fans.  We need to create special events, we call them special access events, that will bring new fans to tennis.  As Butch points out, it's the bringing together of sports and entertainment.   
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ:  I know one thing we won't do.  We won't do the Brazilian dancers here. (Laughter)   
ANNE WORCESTER:  Last night we had, first time ever we had blue grass.  It was very mellow, Friday night.  I guess I was trying to mellow the J Block.  But we had Cassie DePaiva from One Live Life to Live who is sort of mainstream celebrity come and sing.   
 Tonight we have a complete party band, the Sell-Outs.  Totally different atmosphere than it was last night.   
 MATT VAN TUINEN:  I think other thing I would bring up too is the grass roots efforts before the tournament paid dividends during.  We just passed the thousandth kid for the New Haven Parks and Recreation thing that we started.  How long ago did we start that?   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  Five years ago.   
 MATT VAN TUINEN:  Yeah.  So by building in those kid and trying to bring more fans in that way, even though it's not off-the-court entertainment this week, it's providing opportunities for those kid to meet James Blake during the summer and providing opportunities to bring them to the book signing and stuff like that.   
 So we're creating fans that way during the year with a free lesson.  Over 400 kids come to that every year.  By creating tennis fans that way you're bringing in more people.   
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ:  It's about trust, and I think people are trusting that we'll put out a product that is fun.  That's our job.   
  
  Q.  You talk about mellowing the J Block.  They definitely pushed the envelope in the Clement match but seemed like they reeled it in.  Anyone go them and say, You can't do what you just did, or do they police themselves, or did James say, Look, you're making me look bad?   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  We regrouped on the rules after the Clement match.  James and Brian Barker and we are on the same page as it relates to the rules, and we just regrouped on the rules and reminded a few people of the rules.   
 But, you know what, when it's the third set and there's a tiebreak, their whole stadium is going to cheer when James Blake's opponent makes a mistake.  You can't blame that on the J Block.  Brian Barker says to me, if this is Davis Cup in Spain the whole stadium is the J Block.   
  
  Q.  They were very appropriate after that match.  They only cheered in between points and when a point was finished they cheered the point being finished.   
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ:  It'll be interesting today.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  I think they're going to be relatively subdued because they like both guys.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  The funny thing is they both train at Saddlebrook.  The guy that's head of training at Saddlebrook has nowhere to sit because he can't in either one of the boxes, so he's going to sit with me.   
 MIKE DAVIES:  Going to have the J Block and the Fish Market.   
 ANN WORCESTER:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Everyone talked about Mardy.  He wasn't going to play here.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  I've had the best time with Mardy.  Every time I see him always saying, It's a good thing you decided to, you know.  All right, this is what I say.  And to think you weren't sure you wanted to play New Haven.  To think.   
 I mean, I was talking to his agent until noon on July 9th.  I promise you.  Yeah, no, yeah, no.  No, not going to play.  Going take the week off.  And then he wanted the wild card.  We had so many wild card requests I had to tell his agent that I wasn't sure we were going to be able to do it because we had Querrey, Isner.   
 MATT VAN TUINEN:  Young, Ferrer.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  Young.  We were still waiting to hear from Richard Gasquet, Tommy Haas.  Ferrer had missed the deadline and was desperate for a month.  Andy Murray had one will card and we didn't really know if we were going to be able to give him the wild card.  So every time I see him I say, Good thing we gave you this wild card this week.   
  
  Q.  Do you think more of the players that didn't get in like Monaco will kind of get the point that they better sign up when they are supposed to sign up?   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  When I had good-bye to David Ferrer yesterday, believe me (in Spanish) Don't forget.   
  
  Q.  Butch, you mentioned trust.  How long did it take down in Key Biscayne to build that trust in the tournament, and how is it progressing here?   
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ:  Well, we had a little different kind of circumstance in Key Biscay ne because of the stadium issues and it got off the sports page and was on the front page.  You know, I think today you probably cannot get a box for Key Biscayne for 10, 15 years.   
 We get maybe one or two a year.  Somebody dies or there's a divorce.  We had the biggest crowds we've ever had.  Again, I think it's the philosophy of we're in the entertainment business and our partners our fans, the press, the players, our sponsors, and we work really hard.   
 I mean Anne and Mike have done a really good job of taking care of the details, making sure we're doing a good job with the sponsors and the fans, and that's critical.  One of the things that somebody asked the question, or I think Mary did, I think it was really important that we had people that understood the sport and understood that we're in the entertainment business, which is Mike and Anne.   
 We might not have accomplished this.  We came in with some negatives and it took it a while to turn it around.  I think right now we have a great relationship with Yale and the city, and our relationship with the USTA is terrific.  It's because I think everyone has confidence in these two people that they're pros.  We know what our business is and we have a very clear strategy of what we were trying to do.   
 We're in the entertainment business.  And we're not just entertaining the fans, I mean, we need to entertain the players and you guys, and we need to obviously entertain the sponsors.  We don't always bat a thousand, but we think we do it as well if not better than anybody.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  Just going keep trying to do better.   
  
  Q.  Do you have any plans to enhance your website at all over the next year or so?   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  Actually I think the website is one of the things we do well.  Do you have any suggestions?   
  
  Q.  Just as a random thing, I keep checking weather.com just to check the daily weather.  Seems like that would be nice to have that on the home page.  Otherwise it's fabulous.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  That's a good idea.  We actually are lucking enough to have the USTA designing our website.  We have an in-house webmaster.  It's one more benefit of being owned by the USTA.  We are the only website that they -- we do pay them a few, but it's just far below market value.   
 And, you know, it's one of the upgrades we made a year ago.  But the weather, especially this week, would have been a lot easier for me.   
  
  Q.  Right.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  Thank you for that suggestion.   
  
  Q.  The Rogers Masters tournament has a virtual tour of the stadium.  I think maybe you can incorporate that, too.  You can actually see your seat.   
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ:  That's a good idea.   
  
  Q.  From the perspective of where you're sitting.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  Especially after this year, because the Internet ticket sales are double what they were last year.  Clearly there's a new trend here that people are more comfortable buying tickets on-line, so we need to make that as easy as possible.   
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ:  Bruce asked a questions about the future.  I think there's some capital improvements here that we can look at.  You know, if we can get an elevator that's going to help the food and beverage people considerably.  It would be great if we could enclose -- instead of having to go build the hospitality areas we could have some of that be permanent.   
 That's going to take, you know, obviously capital and investment and find out if it -- do the math and see if it works.  But I think those are thing that we can maybe try to improve.   
  
  Q.  This may sound dumb, but has any thought been given to getting a tarp to throw on the court like they do at Wimbledon so when he have these rain delays it doesn't take an hour a half to dry the court?   
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ:  The problem is once the water hits it that's it.  It's not like clay or grass where you can protect it.  It's wet, it's wet.   
 MIKE DAVIES:  It stays on top.  The other thing about the tarp is by the time you get it on of course is the problem.  But the rain gets underneath and comes down on it.  Apart from perspiration and sweating underneath that thing.  We.   
 Had a terrible time on Tuesday trying to get that court dry with everything going against us.  We had no wind, no sun, and it was cold.  To try and get that court dry manually without any natural thing it was really tough.   
  
  Q.  You were talking about mid-week about the loss of revenue from the two wash outs.  How much would you say losing those two sessions cost?   
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ:  I think we really lost three.   
 MIKE DAVIES:  Most people on Tuesday night didn't think we were going to play.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  They were kicking themselves the next morning when they saw how exciting the matches were.  But a lot of people that had tickets, like sponsor tickets, didn't come out.   
 MIKE DAVIES:  Well, as far as right after those three sessions that we lost financially, we were -- we took a big hit financially on it, but we've been able to make up that financial hit so that we now, with two more sessions to go, as of now we get a chance of making all that back up.   
  
  Q.  I would imagine the walk up for Blake/Fish would be a little bit better than say Calleri/Karlovic.   
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ:  Well, we hope.   
 MIKE DAVIES:  Yeah.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  And I wouldn't be wearing that red, white, and blue beaded gown.   
 MIKE DAVIES:  We got hit, there's no doubt about it, in the beginning of the week.  But I think we got a chance of making it up.   
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ:  You don't just get hit in the ticket sales.  You've got the retail and the food and beverage.  It affects everybody here.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  The sponsor that had one hospitality all week and they didn't get what they paid for.  Do they want to come back?   
  
  Q.  Have you tabulated the percentage of alcohol sales that go to the J Block?   
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ:  I didn't think they were old enough to drink.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  Actually when you look at where we are with attendance and the fact that we're only 3,000 behind right now, that's remarkable given the fact that we had, as a practical, matter three sessions lost.   
  
  Q.  You're only 3,000 behind where you were last year at this time?   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  Yeah.  I was shocked when I saw that.   
 MIKE DAVIES:  Yeah.  I mean, without those three I have --   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  We'd be ahead.   
 MIKE DAVIES:  I have really no doubt we'd be ahead.  We're just waiting to see today where we are.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  The weather looks especially good for tonight in terms of cooling down, so we're hoping that there will be a very strong walk-up tonight.   
  
  Q.  There's some potential of some late night showers.   
 ANN WORCESTER:  Dr. Mel seems to think they'll hold off until after midnight.  Let's hope he's right.  So we'll be halfway through the men's singles match by midnight.   
 MIKE DAVIES:  He also asked us as a practical matter we should think about starting the matches earlier.   
 ANNE WORCESTER:  We thought we'd call ESPN and let them know.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT