BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 8, 2007
Jarrius Jackson
Martin Zeno
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Either one of you guys, can you talk about what was going on defensively in the second half and if you think you can get away with that kind of effort again for the rest of the season?   
 JARRIUS JACKSON:  We just went through some mental lapses on defense.  Missed a couple switches and missed a couple of blockouts and it hurt us.   
 We capitalized on our mistakes on defense, and we just have to watch film and just correct our mistakes.   
  
  Q.  Martin, I wonder if you can talk about taking the game over down the stretch.  I think I had you at 13 in a row.  Talk about the run you had to kind of close them out.   
 MARTIN ZENO:  I had got taken out, he told me what I am going to do is sit down on the bench or I am going to go out there and play.  I felt like playing so I went out there and did what he asked me to do.   
  
  Q.  Martin, you have been getting in the free throw line a lot.  Is there an art to that?   
 MARTIN ZENO:  Draw the ball and get fouled.  That's all I can say.   
  
  Q.  Martin, if you can talk about -- you guys being able to penetrate and get to the free throw line earlier, how did that make it easier down the stretch?   
 MARTIN ZENO:  When we get to the foul line early, it makes the game easier for us because the team being fouled, get in foul trouble, it is easy to cut and screen and get open layups.   
  
  Q.  Martin, what were you doing or not doing that caused him to tell you that you are either going to sit or play?   
 MARTIN ZENO:  I guess I wasn't as aggressive, just letting things go and not playing defense really like he wanted me to.  Stuff like that.   
  
  Q.  Jarrius, yesterday you said you didn't think that you guys -- or you couldn't lose to Colorado.  Did you think you are in the NCAA tournament now?   
 JARRIUS JACKSON:  I think our chances are much greater getting into the tournament.  We still have some work to do tomorrow against K-State.  We can't sleep on them because we know they are trying to get in the tournament as well.  We have to come out ready to play tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Jarrius, you didn't quite score like you usually do.  How nice was it to have Martin to pick up the slack today?   
 JARRIUS JACKSON:  In the second half, it was a big help.  He took the pressure basically off all of us.  He take the game over getting to the line.  Got to give credit to Martin on that.   
  
  Q.  Can you both talk about what the difference will be against Kansas State tomorrow than when you played them in Manhattan?   
 MARTIN ZENO:  I think they are all gelling at the end of the season.  People know their roles, they know how the coaches coach, where the coaches roll from.  It will be a very tough game.   
 JARRIUS JACKSON:  We know they are trying to get into the tournament and people just been telling us we wasn't in so we will come ready to play tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about the way Decensae and Charlie played in their first Big 12 tournament?   
 JARRIUS JACKSON:  Decensae and Charlie took the pressure off today.  Charlie got to the line, knocked down some big shots.  And Decensae with his open threes and his rebounding.   
  
  Q.  Martin, did you tweak your ankle again, same thing you did against Oklahoma State?   
 MARTIN ZENO:  Yeah, I came down on Jackson-Wilson's foot and tweaked it again.  I hurt it a little bit but it is all right now.   
  
  Q.  For either one of you guys, how hard is it with a quick turnaround to get a good preparation for the next team?   
 MARTIN ZENO:  We played them before early in the season, so we know exactly what they want.  We might make a little bit of changes on our defensive play.   
 You know, being in high school, we played in tournaments that did this.  It is the same thing.  We just got to be prepared.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT