NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v CELTICS
May 23, 2008
Antonio McDyess
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You were more aggressive when the mask was off.   
 ANTONIO McDYESS: I wouldn't say that. I wanted to be aggressive anyway. I just felt that I couldn't breathe and that mask was really hot and I had to take it off, but I've got to be cautious and be careful anyway, especially the next game. I got hit in the nose with the ball during the game, and it hurt. I'll just try to see how it goes next game.  
  
  Q. Flip was saying that this is the calmest he's seen you in three years. He said that the game has kind of slowed down for you, you're that comfortable. Is that the way you see it, too?  
 ANTONIO McDYESS: I don't know. I'm just trying to help this team as much as possible. I'm just going to contribute the best way I can, and things are just coming naturally, I think. I just feel it, feel my rhythm. Not only that, but my teammates are in good positions to score the ball. I know I'm going to be open a lot and I've just got to knock down shots.  
  
  Q. You spent a lot of time guarding Garnett last night. Even in the Western Conference did you go one-on-one with him most of the time?  
 ANTONIO McDYESS: All the time. I always matched up on the key players when I was in the Western Conference. Me and KG have done battle plenty of times, but not in the playoffs situation. This is definitely a different situation. He made tough shots last night and I just tried to make it impossible for him.  
  
  Q. How encouraging is it for you guys, their big three go off and do what they did, and you still win?  
 ANTONIO McDYESS: Man, it's good. I think it gives us some momentum coming back home. They played well, both ballclubs. As far as down to the end, I think overall, we've just got to keep playing the way we are, aggressive and just relying on Chauncey to get us through it. He did a great job last night.  
  
  Q. What do you think it is that's kept them from getting a road win in the playoffs so far?  
 ANTONIO McDYESS: I don't know, man. I really haven't watched any road games. I've pretty much been just worried about us. But they're a good ballclub, and I know when they come in here they're going to try to get that road win because they ain't had it yet. So we've just got to concentrate and protect our home court.  
  
  Q. Given the circumstances of last night and the quality of the opponent, was that in your three years here as good a postseason performance as you can recall?  
 ANTONIO McDYESS: For who?   
  
  Q. For the whole team, for your team.   
 ANTONIO McDYESS: I don't know. I mean, San Antonio, we won down there, Game 6. I think overall we did play a good game and I can't take that away from us. I think what was different was the bench, Stuckey and Lindsey did a great job when they got off the bench in getting us going.  
  
  Q. Do you see something different about Garnett from when you played against him in the West, like an excitement that he feels? Do you sense that he's kind of a different player, plays with a higher energy level?  
 ANTONIO McDYESS: Not really. He's always been a high-energy guy. He's very emotional on the court. I mean, I think now the difference is today he's knocking down jump shots. Before he was a little more in the post, wouldn't take too many jump shots like he does now. He's improved the jump shots a lot and is knocking them down, so you've got to respect it.  
  
  Q. Who would win between him and Rasheed in a three-point shooting contest?  
 ANTONIO McDYESS: Sheed, because that's all he wants to do is shoot threes (laughing).  
  
  Q. You mentioned Stuckey. What's impressed you the most in the last couple weeks about the way he's playing?  
 ANTONIO McDYESS: Aggressiveness, his aggressiveness defensively. I think Lindsey has been talking to him, really been building his confidence up, and he's been listening. That's the thing about Stuckey, he goe s out and listens to the veterans and he does things he normally does. I think the way he takes it to the basket, he's not afraid. He just goes out there and plays like -- he has poise.   
  
  Q. Does he not know any better, not to be afraid?  
 ANTONIO McDYESS: I think it's good. I think it's good he doesn't know no better because he just plays his game. If he did know the consequences and what could happen if he messed up, it would be on his mind and he wouldn't be playing as well as he is.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT