NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS v PISTONS
May 23, 2007
Antonio McDyess
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Is the plan to just keep shooting again? 
 ANTONIO McDYESS:  Yeah, basically that's what I've got to do.  I can't let it get to me.  Keep shooting.  Eventually it'll come.  It's not like I'm a bad shooter and had a couple good shooting nights.  I think I'm a good shooter most nights, but I've had a bad shooting night a couple games. 

 Q.  What's been the key to this team winning without guys like yourself and Webber really shooting the ball as well as you're used to doing? 
 ANTONIO McDYESS:  We've got a lot of scorers.  We can't just depend on everyone to score; I think that's going to kind of get out of sync.  But with everyone on this team, anyone can score on any given night.  Me personally, I don't look to score.  I know they don't need me to score, but when they pass me the ball, I look for myself to try to get my offense going, and that leads to the defense. 

 Q.  What do you anticipate them trying to do a little differently as far as LeBron is concerned? 
 ANTONIO McDYESS:  He's going to attack us, definitely going to attack.  I think he'll be a lot more aggressive.  For us we've just got to keep our composure and just try to limit his shots and do what we did last game.  I think overall we did a great job, just didn't have a good shooting night last game, but we're looking forward to this game. 

 Q.  Him attacking isn't anything you don't expect; you came into this series expecting him to be aggressive? 
 ANTONIO McDYESS:  Of course. 

 Q.  You don't change your defense? 
 ANTONIO McDYESS:  No, definitely.  We know he's going to get a lot of calls this game.  There have been a lot of complaints.  We know he's going to be a lot more aggressive, but we're not going to change anything we do.  We're still going to try to get the ball out of his hands and continue to do what we do on the offensive end. 

 Q.  Are you getting to your spots offensively?  Are you getting the shots that you normally do get? 
 ANTONIO McDYESS:  As far as if you asked me that in the Chicago series, I would have said no.  But this game, this series, I did.  I thought the ball was going to go in.  I felt like when I released it, it felt good, but it just didn't go down. 

 Q.  Confidence level, that never changed?  With you it's just a matter of seeing it go through once or twice? 
 ANTONIO McDYESS:  Yeah, just getting that rhythm back, get a couple shots to go down, get a couple lay-ups, and then you get yourself going.  For me personally, I just get my confidence back and start playing a lot better. 

 Q.  You passed up shots that you'd normally be taking? 
 ANTONIO McDYESS:  Yeah, second half I did last game.  I passed a lot of shots up I normally should shoot, but my teammates kept telling me to keep my head in and keep shooting, and that's what I'm going to do.  I'm not going to try to let this affect me, just go out there and keep playing. 

 Q.  Why were you passing shots up? 
 ANTONIO McDYESS:  You know, when I'm off, I kind of let that take over me.  I kind of get frustrated.  Frustration just takes over and I want to see the ball, and I want to go in the paint so I can try to get easy tips and then try to work myself back out, but it didn't happen.  Hopefully this game it'll get going. 

 Q.  Do you feel better?  Is all that worked out, being sick, that bug, whatever you had? 
 ANTONIO McDYESS:  Yeah, I don't know what it was.  I had a little fever, but I just tried to fight through it.  But now I feel great. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT