NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v HEAT
May 29, 2006
Antonio McDyess
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Have you guys ever been in a spot this tight? 
 ANTONIO McDYESS:  No, our backs are against the wall definitely.  You want the definition of backs against the wall; 3-1.  That tells it all.  They definitely outplayed us.  There wasn't nothing we could do.  Seemed like we tried to cut the lead, just couldn't ever get over the hump. 
 Q.  Wade has had a lot of big scoring games throughout this season, but it seems like in the fourth quarter in particular, he really seems to take control. 
 ANTONIO McDYESS:  They look to go to him every time.  He always answers for them.  We trapped him, tried to get the ball out of his hands.  He'll make plays for other guys -- their whole team is definitely doing the job stepping up.  When he's not scoring, everybody else, other people just seem to take over.  We just ain't doing what we're supposed to do. 
 Q.  You guys have always been a very confident team in overcoming diversity and things like that.  Where is this team now in that aspect? 
 ANTONIO McDYESS:  That's going to be the challenge here.  Going back home right now, this will definitely be our challenge to see if we can do it, see what we're made of now, going home 3-1.  That's going to tell the tale.  How we respond off of this is going to tell it all. 
 Q.  When you said it feels like there's nothing we can do, are you guys at the point where you almost feel helpless a little bit? 
 ANTONIO McDYESS:  What I mean is you're going to the basket, you're either going to get a foul or he's going to make a shot.  You breathe on him, foul, get away from him, he'll make a shot.  It could go either way.  I mean, whatever you do, it don't matter, he's going to make the play, or if he goes to the bucket they're going to give him a foul regardless.  Sometimes you do feel that way because you can't really play physical with him. 
 Q.  How much does that take away from you guys? 
 ANTONIO McDYESS:  Oh, no question, you see the fouls.  It seemed like I looked around on the bench and everybody was in foul trouble.  That's ridiculous for this team.  You try to play physical and you get a foul.  What is there for us to do? 
 Q.  What was said in here at halftime? 
 ANTONIO McDYESS:  You know, same old stuff.  I mean, we knew what we needed to do, come out, trap the ball.  We just had a strategy what we needed to do and stick to it, get the ball out of Wade's hands, contain Shaq, and just pick up the offense, and we did.  We did exactly what we were supposed to do and what he told us when we came out for the third quarter and were feeling good about ourselves, but we just couldn't get over the hump. 
 Q.  Was it mostly all players talking in here, or was it mostly Flip? 
 ANTONIO McDYESS:  Oh, everyone.  Everybody was on the same page.  I can't say we weren't on the same page.  Everyone was on the same page.  You know, like I said, they just outplayed us tonight.  They definitely outplayed us. 
 Q.  How much of a difference do you think Flip made between Game 3 and Game 4? 
 ANTONIO McDYESS:  Big difference. 
 Q.  How so? 
 ANTONIO McDYESS:  Like before we went on the same page, seemed like everyone didn't know what to do.  But I think Game 4 is where we all was on the same page.  We came out, we're supposed to trap, get the ball out of Wade's hands, run the pick-and-rolls how we're supposed to run the plays he put in, and we did it all like he told us to.  There wasn't no sense in not doing it because we did, and we just came up short.  Like I said, they outplayed us, man.  There's nothing you can say about that. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT