DAVIS CUP - CZECH REPUBLIC vs USA
April 6, 2000
David Rikl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







USTA: Welcome, everyone. We have the Czech Team with us today. We'll start off with
some questions in English and then open the floor for questions in Czech. First question?

Q. For Jiri, if after a performance like you had against Great Britain, do you come
into a tie like this feeling more pressure to win three matches again, or less? Can you
sort of say it's somebody else's turn?

JIRI NOVAK: I think it's tough to say, but we came here, was the one thing that we
don't have nothing to lose. We can play without pressure. We willl try to play our best
tennis. Against Britain, we were playing in Czech Republic. It was much pressure for us.
Then we wanted to win the match in Czech Republic against England. But here, I think that
we can play without the pressure.

Q. Jiri, can you talk about playing Sampras? You had the one match you played that was
a very long, tough match. Is it different now, four years later?

JIRI NOVAK: I don't know because the match was four years ago. But I was playing pretty
tough match against him. I lost 6-4 in the fifth set in the US Open. So I think it was
great match, and I will try to play the same match tomorrow.

Q. I have a question for Captain Kukal. How do you react to the way the draw came down?
Is that the way you would have preferred it?

CAPTAIN JAN KUKAL: It's -- I'm happy with this draw because the all pressure, it's on
our No. 1 player, who was playing very well also in Key Biscayne where he beat Alex
Corretja and Indian Wells. So, we wanted him to play first match because he's for sure
going to play in doubles.

Q. For Jiri and also Slava, how's the court playing? How would you describe it?

JIRI NOVAK: I think the court is pretty nice, and I think it's very good for us because
we can play also from the baseline on the court. So I think that the surface is perfect.

Q. How would you describe the speed of it?

SLAVA DOSEDEL: I think also we can play serve-and-volley, we can stay back, so I think
it's quite fair surface and also is softer than hardcourt, which is good.

Q. Jiri, can you talk strategically about what you're going to try to do against
Sampras? What is your game plan against Sampras?

JIRI NOVAK: You know, I will play my game. I will play my tennis, and I will try to
play a lot of balls on the baseline. I know he's very strong with the serve-and-volley, so
I have to set him in the baseline.

Q. Slava, can you talk about playing Agassi?

SLAVA DOSEDEL: I'll make a few phone calls tonight so he won't sleep that well.
(Laughter.) There is good chance there.

Q. Martin, you've had some recent success against Jared and Alex last week. How does
that give you -- makes you feel comfortable going into the match, the doubles match
Saturday?

MARTIN DAMM: Well, if the captain put me in the doubles, then I'll be confident. But,
you know, right now we have David and Jiri for doubles. And also I play with a different
partner. Of course I play with Dominik Hrbaty from Slovakia. So it's always different if
you play with someone else. But, you know, if captain decide to put me in doubles, of
course I'm ready and I will be very confident from last week.

Q. Are you disappointed that you're not playing?

MARTIN DAMM: Pardon me?

Q. Are you disappointed that you weren't put in?

MARTIN DAMM: Not really. The captain can change one hour prior to match. So it's really
just, you know, for the media that he put those two names, and it can be changed. So I'm
100 percent ready, you know, if something's going to happen and ready to play.

Q. For Captain Kukal, do you think your team has a chance to win this match, or would
you just be happy winning one singles match or doubles match?

CAPTAIN JAN KUKAL: I think we are -- it's -- I have heard yesterday that it is the
second time in this, No. 1 and 2 player in the world and No. 1 doubles in the world
playing together. I don't remember, but I think it's the first time. It is not only this,
we are playing the best, I think, best team ever played. Because Agassi, Sampras are not
only No. 1 and 2 player in the world at the moment, but I think they are the best players
that ever played. So I can answer your question. We would be happy -- we are going to play
ball after ball and game after game. We try to make set, and then to go slowly like this,
and I would be very happy when match is not going to be decided on Saturday. So we would
love to go to open match on Sunday, and it would be also very good for spectators and this
would be great for everybody, and I think our players are ready to give their best.

CAPTAIN JAN KUKAL: Our journalists, they speak better English than we do.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT