U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 24, 2018
Sam O'Dell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So you got on top of Todd early today.  How did you do it?  
SAM O'DELL: I hit it really close on 1 and he gave it to me.  So I had a gimme on 1; he missed it by about eight feet, nine feet, and I hit a pretty good putt.  Just rolled over the edge.  I had probably met him one time before with Scott Harvey and some other guys.  He's probably heard about me a little bit, but none of these guys really, really know me.   
Especially for me it's very important to get up through five holes.  That was my goal, to be at least 1-up through five.  Just look like I was calm, look like I was -- because was nervous -- but look like I was calm, on my game, and just put the -- continue to keep the pressure on time after time.   
Because for whatever reason, even like Pat in West Virginia.  I mean, he's won everything.  Match play I feel like whatever I'm better -- especially with Pat you know you have to bring your best.  I knew that's who I was playing.  I knew I had to bring my best.  There is no other option or you're going to get beat.   
That helps me.  It just helps me.   
 Q.  You just mentioned Pat Carter.  First time he's caddied for you?  
SAM O'DELL: It is, it is.   
 Q.  How is he helping you?  
SAM O'DELL: Oh, he's big.  Well, I'll tell you.  How much he knows is -- we play in the four ball, too, the U.S. four ball.  We've been first alternate like three times.   
I mean, the way he reads greens, you know, is great, but he's also good enough that when I get going he just says -- I'll even ask him and he'll be like, You don't need me.   
So he's smart enough to know that.  He doesn't want that add extra, but if I'll asked, he'll tell me.  I know if he's not really saying anything I must be doing something pretty well.   
The only other time, he took me to the Western Am one year when I was younger and I had to qualify.  I shot 67 in the qualifier and it rained.  He got my clubs all wet.  Still make fun of him for that.   
Yeah, he's been there.  He's been just kind of calming more than anything.   
 Q.  In your match today Todd made bit of a run on you in the middle of the back.  Then you closed with two birdies.  
SAM O'DELL: Yeah.   
 Q.  How did you do that on 15 and 16?  
SAM O'DELL: 15, yeah.  And you have to expect that.  He wasn't going to go down -- you know, he made a good putt on 14.   
Then 15, he hit a good drive.  That's a tough -- every hole is tough from the rough here, so I hit a really good drive.  He was, you know, like six inches further than me.  I got to see his ball, which helped.  I hit it about, you know, 15 feet and he putted and so, you know, it always helps me to see a putt, even if --   
To be honest, he ran it by.  I read it left edge.  He ran it by like eight feet or six feet.  Pat was like, I think we need to look at this again.  I'm like, You think it's straight?  So I putted it right center actually and it went right in the middle.   
16 I hit good drive, good 7-iron.  I got to hit first.  I'm always hitting first.  Then he hit an amazing shot in there about 18, 15 feet out of that bunker and I just had like eight feet so I never did have to putt it.   
It was straight in, too.  So like my chances.  That's what I told Pat walking up.  I'm like, Well, worst case, if I make the putt I can win the match.  He said, Absolutely.  And then he missed.   
 Q.  You probably been asked this question before, but doing what you do for a living and then playing golf, is there anything about being a dentist that translates to playing the game of golf?  
SAM O'DELL: I think it makes me more patient.  You know, I mean, I think honestly that's what I would say.  Throughout the day, you know, there are different -- you do so many different things, especially as a general dentist.   
Used to be, seven years ago or whatever, I would get worked up over this or that.  Now it's just do your best; stay calm, you know.  So if I had to say anything that's probably what it was.   
Now being there the patients know me so well, so I get support from that, too.  Now I think the most thing that helps me about being a dentist is just everyone knows me kin of in the area and my patients.  They're always my biggest supporters.   
 Q.  They probably want to talk to you about your golf game a lot.  
SAM O'DELL: Oh, I have to talk about that all day.  That's off the record.  Yeah, I know.  I say that sometimes.  I wish I could play golf somewhere and do then dentistry somewhere.  That was my goal, especially in dental school.  I want to someday be known as the dentist and not the golfer.   
Obviously it helps me.  I am sure people know me as golf, so I'm sure it helps me get patients.  Yeah, sometimes I think that.  Yeah, I answer those questions all day.  They're great, so...   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT