CONNECTICUT OPEN PRESENTED BY UNITED TECHNOLOGIES
August 23, 2014
Magdalena Rybarikova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KVITOVA/M. Rybarikova
  6‑4, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   You grabbed your leg several times there.   Did you have an injury in the first set? 
MAGDALENA RYBARIKOVA:   Well, it happened actually yesterday during the match against Giorgi.   I have to say during the match I didn't feel it that much, but I know when it happened.   I slide, and I really like slide a lot.   Little bit fell.   But during the match was okay, everything. 
Actually after the match, it started.   It was really, really painful.   During the night...   I had really tough night today.   Was really like painful.   I was not even sure if I could go on the court today.   I was afraid.   I went to physio room.   They undo the tape and I took like a few painkillers so I could play the match. 
In the beginning was okay, but then it started to be worse and worse.   It's tough to play like this against such a great player.   But I don't want to say I lost because of that.   Of course not.   She's amazing player. 
I have to say it was limiting me today. 

Q.   What exactly is the injury?
MAGDALENA RYBARIKOVA:   How you say this in English? 
THE MODERATOR:   You're right thigh. 
MAGDALENA RYBARIKOVA:   It was actually during the match, there was like a pinch pain, under my bottom.   Really like not nice, to be honest.   I was really afraid to move, especially on my backhand side.   She saw, because I saw she started to play her serve to that side.   It was tough today, yeah. 

Q.   She seemed to play you wide on both sides.   That must have been tough with that kind of an injury. 
MAGDALENA RYBARIKOVA:   Yeah, and especially me, which I like to slide on the court.   I like to go for it.   I like to play slice.   I'm not afraid to slide on the court. 
Today I felt I just could not.   I was afraid.   It was really like painful in some moments.   Then I really would have to kill all the balls.   Against Petra Kvitova it's tough to kill all the balls. 
I was serving good.   She played very well.   For sure she deserve to win this tournament. 

Q.   Do you think this is something that might affect you in the US Open or it should be okay?
MAGDALENA RYBARIKOVA:   The problem is I don't have few more days.   The problem is I play Monday.   That is a huge problem for me. 
Well, this is the kind of injury which not going to go in one day.   But I have a physio in New York.   I mean, I will do everything for it.   Treatment today, treatment tomorrow.   Maybe I'm not even going to hit tomorrow.   Maybe 30 minutes, just to feel the court.   Maybe I will go just straight on the match. 
I hope that it will be better.   But it's going to be tough.   I have very tough draw.   It will be very difficult for me. 

Q.   Talk about Petra, when she's playing like she did this week, didn't drop a set, do you think she's as good as anyone else in the world?   How good can she be?
MAGDALENA RYBARIKOVA:   She's amazing player.   I always said it actually.   Even she was No.80 when she was younger, I said she is going to be No.1.   I played many times, we practiced many times.   We know each other long.   She has just amazing game. 
She can return.   She can serve.   She's even moving very well.   She improved a lot.   She can beat anybody, absolutely, when she's playing her game. 
We'll see.   I mean, why she is not the No.1 is because she was a little bit up and down many times.   She could win Grand Slam and then she had a worse result. 
But I think she's now older and also her mental thinking is much better now.   I think she's very confident.   In the US Open, it will be I think very interesting who's going to win.   She can do it, for sure. 

Q.   She doesn't hit really hard, but she hits hard enough and puts good placement on the ball?
MAGDALENA RYBARIKOVA:   She hit very hard.   You have to play against her.   She hit very hard the ball. 
I mean, today I have to say a little bit, also when I played, the balls are a little bit heavier.   The weather, when it's a weather like this, it's tougher to hit the ball.   But she can hit amazing balls.   She hit really, really hard sometimes. 
Maybe Giorgi hit yesterday harder.   But depends.   Sometimes some balls she hit amazing today.   She see many times, when I play the stroke, she see it so many times.   I mean, she just serve amazing.   Her return is amazing. 
I mean, she's just complete player.   Her volleys improved also very much.   I don't think she has some weakness.   When she plays her best, I mean, it's very, very, very tough to beat her.   Serena would have some work, for sure. 

Q.   What about your week as a whole?   A run to the final.   You struggled this year with tough draws, especially this summer. 
MAGDALENA RYBARIKOVA:   I mean, not completely like this year.   But this US Open Series I was struggling with the draw.   It was really tough for me. 
Yeah, I mean, I had a great week.   If somebody would tell me I would be in the final, I would laugh, tell him what he's taking (laughter).   Especially when I saw the draw, yeah, played No. 2 in the world. 
Yeah, I would not believe.   But for sure it's great for me.   Especially also before the US Open because sometimes the people say, Yeah, everything is preparation before the US Open.   When you are not seeded, you can have a very tough draw, it's tough.   It's always good to play every tournament good, every tournament with focus.   So I'm very happy that I made a final because in US Open I play Wozniacki, which is extremely tough draw.   So you never know how it can end. 
For me it's great.   I'm very happy.   I hope I going to have some more confident after this. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT