SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 22, 2014
Craig Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What did you think of the round today?   It seemed like it went very consistent. 
CRAIG THOMAS:   Yeah, you weren't watching though.   It was up‑and‑down.   One thing I haven't struggled with is driving the ball and today I drove the ball really poorly. 
Irons were good, putting, made a couple good par savings putts and kept the round going.

Q.   Where do you think you could have made up a few strokes looking back?
CRAIG THOMAS:   Well I bogeyed the first par‑5.   5 I think it is.   I was 80 yards from the green.   Just didn't hit a shot hard enough, come up in the rough, bad chip, bogey. 
I missed at least three or four birdie putts inside of 10 feet that just, you know, these greens are a little tricky.   You don't see these little humps, little undulations and all of a sudden the ball starts going in the wrong direction. 
But all in all I did, I had a really, really good par save on 7.   I hit my first ball in the hazard.   I walked it out and I hit it to about 80 yards and from 80 yards hit it to about four feet and made it. 
Then I made about a, on 14?   Yeah, 14.   I made about a 30‑footer for par, too. 
So, yeah, it all evens out.   But it was a good day. 

Q.   What's your mentality heading into tomorrow?
CRAIG THOMAS:   I'm going to go spend some time at the range, try and drive it a little bit better and I feel as though even's about what I should have shot today.   Could have been a little better, could have been a little worse, so hopefully tomorrow if I get the driver straightened out, I can get something into red figures.

Q.   What is it like to have a lot of people back in New York cheering for you this week and to start off here with par at the PGA Championship?
CRAIG THOMAS:   It's great.   All the members have been extremely supportive of all my events, and especially this spring, we got off to a good start, won a few events this fall, this spring, they're all excited for me.   So there's a lot of good things going on. 

Q.   What has your practice been like the past few days here?
CRAIG THOMAS:   I had a good practice round Monday and Tuesday, believe it or not, I promised the president of my club I would play in the pro‑president event back in New York, so I flew home Monday night, played with him Tuesday, flew back here Tuesday night, and then had a good practice round yesterday. 

Q.   So it's been a whirlwind week. 
CRAIG THOMAS:   Yeah, it's been a busy week, but it's been a great week.   Tuesday was a pro‑am here anyway, so the guys I'm staying with didn't get on the course until 3:30.   So for me it was good.   Par poor we had a good time back there as well.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT