AL DIVISION SERIES: ANGELS v YANKEES
October 4, 2002
Joe Torre
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  What do you say to your team, Joe? 

JOE TORRE:  Well, there's really not a lot to say to the team other than they know what they're made of.  You know, I have no problem with what we're going to see tomorrow.  I mean, these guys, no guarantee you're going to win, but you're going to come out here ready to play.  You judge how good a team is by how they respond to the negative stuff.  It was a terrible night tonight.  One game gets us going home.  That's what we're looking forward to. 

Q.  Starting pitching again? 

JOE TORRE:  Yeah, Moose pulled the groin.  But, I mean, wasn't the groin that gave up the runs, because he was okay at that point.  The starting pitching, you know, hasn't been as good as we're capable of being.  Simple as that.  You're not looking for excuses, just a matter of you give the Angels a great deal of credit for the way they hang in there, go hard at you.  Right now, we just haven't been able to do our job as well as they have. 

Q.  The bullpen, too, has had some rocky times.  The way you guys have built this thing over the past few years pitching all the way, are you surprised now? 

JOE TORRE:  I hope I'm always surprised when our bullpen doesn't hold the lead.  But, I mean, as I say, you really have to credit the Angels, they scored six of the eight innings.  We only shut them out two innings of the eight, that's not too good.  I thought Mike Stanton was very courageous tonight, the way he went about it.  He's not afraid of anything.  He struggled toward the end of the year, came in and I thought he did a great job tonight.  The results aren't too good, so we have to make that better tomorrow in order to go home with a game on Sunday.  But, yeah, I am surprised. 

Q.  Your take on the two plays late in the game, the one off Giambi's glove?

JOE TORRE:  That bull jumped on him.  We had just moved him closer to the line.  He was in position to catch it.  It hit somebody and jumped over his glove.

Q.  And Raul Mondesi? 

JOE TORRE:  Yeah, looked like Mondy reached down with two hands.  I'm not sure if it could have been easier for him if he did it one-handed off his glove.  They bust their tails.  Didn't work too good tonight. 

Q.  Mussina, is he out for a length of time if you guys advance? 

JOE TORRE:  I would guess yes, for a pitcher to have a groin problem.  You know, I hope at this juncture that, you know, we have the ability to replace him - you know what I'm saying, in the starting rotation, which means we win tomorrow is what I'm saying.  I don't know.  It's probably a little early to say that right now, because I haven't talked to our trainers.  I haven't even talked to Moose, other than when he came back after the fourth inning.  You know, other than calling us down there and telling us he pulled a groin.  I don't know the extent of the injury until I talk to a trainer.

Q.  Is it more your pitching, their hitting, a combination?

JOE TORRE:  Well, our pitching's capable of doing a better job.  We haven't done a good job.  So, you know, you certainly don't want to say that we're totally to blame here.  I think you have to credit the Angels.  They're good.  We knew they were good coming in.  But right now, they're playing with a great deal of confidence, and they're playing very aggressively.  So, yes, I think it's a combination.  But they certainly have earned what they've had. 

Q.  You say you judge a team by the way they rebound from a loss.  You guys lost the previous game to them.  Are you disappointed now to lose two in a row? 

JOE TORRE:  No, we rebounded pretty good.  We were winning 6-1, we just couldn't hold it.  I thought we came out very, very well.  We got two outs, base hits, score a couple more runs.  I thought we went into this game playing very well and getting on top.  We just  -- our pitching just couldn't hold them. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT