MLB WORLD SERIES: YANKEES v DIAMONDBACKS
October 31, 2001
Joe Torre
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You've seen so many amazing things in your time as a Yankees manager but one out away from being down 3-1 in the World Series; where does this rank? 
 
JOE TORRE:   You know, it's just got to be at the top.  There's no question.  You know, things, surprising things happen, and yet when you really think about it, it doesn't surprise you because this ballclub never quits.  I know it's an old cliche but I have lived it for six years.  I've watched these guys just play hard right to the last out, play every inning.  I mean, Tino had some good at-bats last night, looked like the ball was carrying better than last night and when he hit it I had a good feeling, because in batting practice the balls were flying out of the ballpark a little bit better than yesterday but it's remarkable, there's no question to be able to come back like that, and then Jeter's home run that, was huge.  I can't tell you any more. 
 
Q.  There's 26 out, 13 strikeouts; what were you thinking with two outs in the ninth? 
 
JOE TORRE:   You never quit on this.  When all of the dust clears, you know, you're not good enough that particular week, you accept that, but until that time comes, you know, there's only a few more games left in the season.  And we play hard.  Any time you've got the middle of the batting order coming up, you have  -- know you have to hope that something good is going to happen.  Tino has been there for six years, and I know he's hit some big home runs, he hit the Grand Slam in the World Series, I guess it was back in '98, but this one, I don't think  -- if you ask him, this is probably the biggest one he's ever hit. 
 
Q.  Are you surprised Brenly took Schilling out after seven and are you surprised he came out? 
 
JOE TORRE:   I'm not sure, the kid that they have brought in, I've watched him pitch on TV and he's effective.  Schilling battled tonight, there's no question, he's a horse.  He's a horse.  We had him in a situation a couple of different times, Posada hitting hard on the double play, he doesn't give in, but no it doesn't surprise me, pitching on short rest.  He gave him seven innings, gave up one run and pitched a hell of a ballgame.  We were fortunate to stay in there and be able to deliver at the end. 
 
Q.  Do you think the hat Yogi gave you determined things tonight? 
 
JOE TORRE:   Yogi is pretty special and I just haven't put this -- happened to put this in my bag a couple of weeks ago.  It's a little rank right now but still seems to be working.   Yogi here today.  Said he can't be here tomorrow but he'll call me.  I always feel secure around Yogi.  It was an unbelievable game, it really was, to be able to come back.  I mean, El Duque battled out of some jams, pitched his tail off and Stanton, got out of the inning, got the double play and Mendoza did what he did.  When Tino hit the home run I said, we have Mo in this game because I didn't know how long we were going to have Mo, but we didn't have to make that decision. 
 
Q.  The way the offense had been going, to get those two home runs late, do you think that was just what you guys needed to get some offensive momentum back? 
 
JOE TORRE:   We hope so.  This is a big lift.  You win a game like this, when you have  -- you're on the threshold of going down 3-1, it's huge.  It's huge for our confidence, and to  -- we pitched well enough to win but of course they had pitched better up to that point.  I think we have to settle down tomorrow a little bit to understand that there's plenty of work to do yet.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT