AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: MARINERS v YANKEES
October 15, 2000
Joe Torre
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Did it come down to Nelson just not getting the job done? 

JOE TORRE:   Well, we don't look at any one individual in a losing effort, or a winning effort, for that matter.  It was a situation that I wanted to use  -- I thought it was set up.  Earlier in the game than I normally use Nelly.  But in all fairness to him, we've been going to him.  And yesterday, he was up three times in the bullpen.  That could have something to do with it.  But yeah, we didn't get the job done.  And we go home, and hopefully we can do it Tuesday.

Q.  What factored into how you approached that situation, whether you pitched to Rodriguez or pitched to Martinez first? 

JOE TORRE:   Well, it's depending on how you want to burn your hand:   Do you want to use dry ice or do you want to use a fire?  It is never an easy or a right decision; and both of these guys, you know it going in, they knock in a ton of runs.  I was trying to pitch one at a time, willing to give up a run for an out.  And as I said, we didn't get it done.

Q.  Paul, was he surprised at being pinch-hit for? 

JOE TORRE:   I would like to believe all of the guys I pinch-hit for would be surprised.  They are focused on one thing, and that's going up to hit.  Pinch-hitting for Paul O'Neill is one of the toughest things that I do.  And especially today, when it was so noisy and he couldn't hear us when we were calling for him.

Q.  Did you give any thought to walking Rodriguez in the fifth inning? 

JOE TORRE:   That was one of the options.  But, again, you don't know what the right decision there is, with those two guys involved.  They have both knocked in a ton of runs.  As I say, I was hoping to give up a run for an out, get one at a time.  One danger with loading the bases with a hitter like Edgar up is he knows that you have to throw a strike, and he is pretty damned patient.

Q.  Looking ahead to Game  6, are you going to do anything different as far as facing Halama?

JOE TORRE:   I'll look at it.  I really haven't thought about it.   I was hoping I didn't have to think about a Game  6.  I will now.  But I don't really anticipate a lot of change.

Q.  You obviously don't want to go back to New York, but do you feel like  --?

JOE TORRE:  Oh, yeah, we do. 

Q.  Given the situation, are you set up pretty well? 

JOE TORRE:   We thought about what we were going to lineup; and for certain, I feel better having El Duque and Pettitte on full rest.  You take a lot out of yourself when you pitch in post-season play.  It may not show in the pitch count, but I think emotionally, you spend a lot when you pitch in these things.  Sure, I like our chances, basically, because we have two of our best going; and hopefully, only one is enough.

Q.  This will be your sixth coast-to-coast trip in the last few weeks.  How much does that affect you, or does your adrenaline just take over?

JOE TORRE:   I think it's adrenaline.  But that's one of the reasons we're not going to work out tomorrow.  When you get to this time of year  -- and I went through so many years of my career watching this stuff on television  -- when you get to this time of year, it's a lot of fun.  Sure, you're tired; but you don't give that a second thought.

Q.  Since Glenallen has not come through pinch-hitting for Paul, will that affect you later in the series?

JOE TORRE:   Well, it's a consideration.  As I say, it is not easy to pinch-hit for Paul, because he has been so successful hitting against lefties and righties, and I probably would not have done it if we had played it a couple of runs before he came up, if it looked like the home run would tie it for us.  That's when I decided to make the switch.  I wasn't totally committed to that until Jorge struck out.

Q.  Do you think that the momentum that the Mariners got from that big inning, do you think it is the same type that you guys had in that Game  2?  And are there concerns that that inning will carry over? 

JOE TORRE:   No question.  It perked them up, and they held the lead.  We had plenty of opportunities; we couldn't do anything with them.  But I'd like to believe momentum is as good as your starting pitcher.  So, we'll see what happens on Tuesday.  I'm obviously not knocking John Halama.  I feel good about our guy. 

Q.  Can you talk about how Nelson had thrown a few times in the bullpen?  Did you see something in him today and know that there was something not right with him?

JOE TORRE:   No.  He threw strikes.  The only reason I refer to yesterday is that even though you don't get in the game doesn't mean that you are well-rested.  In certain situations, it just dictates being ready in case something happens.  Nelly threw strikes.  A-Rod didn't hit the ball good.  He jammed him, but not enough.  However, the next two guys made up for that. They hit the ball good.

Q.  You were talking about which way you wanted to burn your hand.  I think Martinez faced Nelson with the bases loaded in August and hit a grand slam.  Did that factor at all into the decision-making process? 

JOE TORRE:   He beat us  -- everything is different when they come up to hit.  As I said before, it's really tough to  -- and again, I'm not saying I wouldn't do that maybe some time down the road; but to me, Edgar is such a good hitter, you like to give your pitcher a little room to breathe with a base open to A-Rod.  But A-Rod spoiled the strategy by getting the base hit, and there it was. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT