MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 11, 2000
Joe Torre
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Derek Jeter with the MVP, are you particularly proud of the Yankee performances
tonight?
 
 JOE TORRE: Yeah, I just came in from the clubhouse. Bernie Williams, I was too pumped
-- jumping and everything. The game means a lot. Very proud people in our locker room and
I'm sure the other locker room. Derek Jeter, I saw his parents coming down the elevator
today, and I know they're really proud, and it's great. I mean the kid is such a great kid
to manage. His priorities are in order. And I know he's very proud of it, even though a
lot of times he doesn't show much. 
 
Q. Do you ever feel like just taking Derek to the track? He seems to be such a
good-luck charm.
 
 JOE TORRE: That may be a good idea. I haven't tried that yet. Nothing else has worked.
(Laughter.) 
 
Q. In all seriousness, do you ever just marvel at the good fortune this guy seems to
have?
 
 JOE TORRE: Well, the harder you work, the luckier you get. After the first year, I
guess 1997, I called him into the office one day and just -- knowing he had won the Rookie
of the Year, knowing he was a bachelor, knowing he was playing for the New York Yankees,
knowing he won the World Series -- just sort of feel him out and see what his mind was
doing. He answered all the questions in the right way for me, to convince me that he knew
where, as I said, his priorities are, and his head's screwed on right. That's not easy for
a youngster who seemingly has this thing going for him and really hasn't had a -- when
he's had a bad time, he's been able to deal with it. He just seems like he's far beyond
his years in experience. 
 
Q. Being in New York and having been a part of the Yankees and the Mets, and Jeter
having done what no other Yankee has done, what does it mean to New Yorkers, to the team?
 
 JOE TORRE: Well, as I say, he's a very proud young man, and it means a great deal. I
know when you come in to an All-Star Game -- and I'm one of them that says it's not
important if you win. In my case, it's important to get everybody in the game, and that
drives me nuts sometimes. But when you get the uniform on, you want to win. And I know
Derek had gone 0 for 2, whatever it was in his other All-Star Games, he told Willie
Randolph, he said: "I'm going to swing at the first pitch. I'm not going to get
behind in the count here." And he struck out the other two times. You know, Derek
Jeter is a Yankee. And if there was ever a young kid that even the veteran players looked
to, it's Derek Jeter. So I think it's a very proud time for the New York Yankees, because
their future did a good thing tonight. 
 
Q. For the City of New York?
 
 JOE TORRE: No kidding. The City of New York. You don't like to sleight the Mets for
sure, because they have their fans; we have ours. And they don't cross over. I got to say
that much. But for sure, the Yankee fans will let him know it when we go home for
Thursday's game. 
 
Q. The Yankees, as you know, they've had a rich tradition. Do you find it amazing he's
the first Yankee ever to win this MVP Award?
 
 JOE TORRE: Yeah. With all the history books that have been written by a lot of Yankees,
it is hard to believe, because you know Mickey Mantle made it every year -- all the great
Yankees, DiMaggio. But, yeah, that's hard to believe. You couldn't want a more proud
individual or one that's going to be the first one up there. 
 
Q. You managed a perfect game tonight. Would you comment?
 
 JOE TORRE: I had a meeting with the players before the game and said it's very
difficult getting everybody in because of the National League Rules where you don't have
the designated hitter. I made up my mind even with the score 3-2, I said to Zim:
"Let's get everybody in. If they tie the game, we go home." You don't want the
pitcher to hit for himself. The only one that didn't get in was Chuck Finley. We had
talked about needing a pitcher to be able to pitch the extra innings if it was necessary.
But we were lucky. Everything fell into place for us. We got some breaks. They made a
couple errors, and it worked out for us. And of course, that last inning really helps you
breathe a sigh of relief when you get those three extra ones up there. 
 
Q. Seeing as how you had to get everybody in the game, was it hard taking Derek out
after he had gone 3-for-3?
 
 JOE TORRE: I thought of leaving him in again; but, again, we have pretty good ones --
he was hitting about .390, too -- with Garciaparra. I wanted to have them have three each,
since I had to have Bordick in the game as a pinch-hitter. I tried to split the game as
best I could. I probably could have given Delgado another at-bat, but we were trying to
get Giambi a hit. That third time, I said, "Go up there and get yourself a base
hit." 
 
Q. It's been a special time for you here in Atlanta, and the fans gave you a big chant
tonight when you came out. What did it mean to manage here in Atlanta the All-Star Game,
since you played here and you played for the Braves and you managed against them recently?
 
 JOE TORRE: Well, I lived in Atlanta for nine years, and I enjoyed it very much.
Unfortunately, I only managed here three years. But it meant a lot. In '96, I was sort of
disarmed when we came down here after losing the first two games at home, and fans gave me
a standing ovation, and it stunned me a little bit. I knew the reception would be
friendly, but I never dreamed it would be that way. And I was very touched and continue to
feel that way with the reception I'm getting -- not only here at the ballpark, but around
town, when you go and eat dinner or take your children out or whatever it is. 
 
Q. As a coach, in evaluating your career, I'm just wondering how would this rate in
terms of, "Okay, you won the World Series a few months ago. Now you won an All-Star
Series."
 
 JOE TORRE: Well, my career is like two parts. The first part was my playing career,
which sort of was a little empty, even though I thought I did well, put some pretty good
numbers up. But not having been in a World Series in my playing career was very empty for
me. What has happened to me in the last five years: three World Series, going to
post-season four years, winning three All-Star Games, this is a wonderful time of my life
right now. It started with the birth of my daughter in December of '95, and it really
hasn't quit yet. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT