AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 18, 1999
Joe Torre
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Talk about the job that Hernandez did for you tonight and what he's meant to the
team this season.

JOE TORRE: I mean it seems like 100 years ago when I saw him in spring training of '98
and watched him throw on the side. Wow, that big leg kick, I don't know if we can do that.
Then all of a sudden, to watch him grow, that Game 4 he pitched against Cleveland, ever
since then he's dared people to beat him. Tonight was just another example of that. That
first inning was phenomenal. Especially coming on the heels of our scoring two runs and to
be able to shut them down like that.

Q. Who are you going to be routing for watching the Mets and the Braves?

JOE TORRE: The best part about it is I don't have to pull for anybody to win now. I've
been pulling for our club to win all year. It's nice to take a day or two off. Whatever
way it goes, it goes. I tell you, what the Mets have done over the last couple of weeks
has enabled them to just walk with pride. There's no question, whatever happens from here
on out.

Q. When it all comes down to it, what was the difference in this series?

JOE TORRE: Well, excuse me -- champagne. (Laughter.) Just the pitching. Our starting
pitching was phenomenal, all but Roger's game. Our starting pitching shut down the Red
Sox. Let me tell you something about the Red Sox, this is as tough a team that we've had
to play since I've been here. You say this guy's better than that guy on this team. The
way they played, and it's a credit to Jimy, they just would not go away. I picked Toronto
in August when it looked like, you know, with the injuries and everything, but they just
wouldn't go away. They had a lot of tenacity, and I really congratulate them on the year
they've had.

Q. The '98 team had all the mystique about it, the aura. Is this team just as effective
without that aura of invincibility?

JOE TORRE: That's a good question. You know, we've been being measured against
ourselves all -- I guess all year. And I try to warn the club in spring training that we
cannot compete against ourselves because that's a once-in-a-lifetime type thing. But
you're right. Maybe ballclubs -- we had to earn it this year. Last year when we won so
many games, a lot of ballclubs felt they sort of didn't have a chance against us. This
year, I don't want to say they played harder, but I think they felt they had a better shot
at us. It was probably more satisfying this year.

Q. Mendoza only faced four batters in this series but certainly he did got it done.

JOE TORRE: Not really. He faced five tonight.

Q. Okay, okay.

JOE TORRE: I know what you mean, though. There's no question, what that young man has
done. This year was sort of a spotty year for him. But the growing he's done since 1996
has been enormous. They're starting to call him, "The Iceman." It's funny, he's
enjoying the situation. It was very tough last year when El Duque -- it's funny that one
should get the win and one should get the save. Because when El Duque came, all of a
sudden Mendoza wasn't a starter anymore. So I guess it's just, you know, some kind of
justice that it happened that way tonight. Because he's taken to the bullpen so well and
it was doing us a favor, because he was doing a good job as a starter.

Q. With what you've gone through off the field this season, what does this mean to you
tonight?

JOE TORRE: Well, when that whole thing started with the prostate cancer in spring
training, you know, you really didn't care about baseball. You go through that. And then
when you're going through your recovery, you're not sure if you're going to care when you
get back. And then once you get back, actually, during the time I was watching the games,
it was like I was a fan; I'm watching. Then once I got back, it was sort of like let me
study myself. Then all of a sudden my stomach started hurting and I realized the passion
was there. In the post-season, it's identical to last year, maybe even a little more so.
I'm all the way back as far as the emotion of doing what I'm doing. But it's been a wild
year.

Q. Was there a game during the year that you knew, mentally, you were back into it?

JOE TORRE: You know, I don't know that. I don't know that. I know a lot of players had
said I was a little bit different because I sort of had this philosophy or perspective
that it's only a game of baseball. But I think heading -- when we lost three in a row to
Boston and then went up to Toronto and lost the first game and then won the next game with
Bernie's grand slam and O'Neill's grand slam, that probably was an emotional turnaround
for me and I realized how important this was for me.

JOE TORRE: Thank you.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT