AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 17, 1999
Joe Torre
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you just tell us about the way Andy pitched tonight. Did he suck it up?

JOE TORRE: Pretty much the way he's pitched every time he's had to pitch a good game.
He was something. This ballpark is tough to pitch in, obviously. Got himself in some jams,
got out of jams, made some great pitches. You know, he's such a good guy to go along with
everything else that he's been through, and it was a big emotional game for us tonight.

Q. Could you comment on umpire, Tim Tschida's call on Offerman?

JOE TORRE: What do you want me to say?

Q. Just what you thought of the call.

JOE TORRE: He called it right away. We're sitting in the dugout. That's the worst seat
in the house as far as to see anything. But he didn't hesitate. From our angle, Knoblauch
caught the ball, it looked, you know, he was trying to tag or did tag. You can't tell if
he tagged or didn't from the dugout, from that angle. He called him out right away. So
that's the only thing I could say. I haven't seen anything other than that.

Q. I came in late, so I'm sorry if I'm repeating this. Pettitte, given the season he
had, his performance tonight and in the playoffs in general, could you comment on that?

JOE TORRE: Well, I mean the second half has been his season. First half he really
scuffled; bottomed out one game in Chicago. He just seemed so tentative and feeling his
way, very nonaggressive, I guess the trading deadline passed and he worked with Mel. I
think that was the biggest part of it really. Mel worked with him on making some
alterations in his delivery. And then he started trusting his stuff. His stuff has been
good all year, he just hasn't been doing the right thing with it up until August.

Q. When your bullpen emptied there during the five-minute delay, did they come in on
their own? Did you ask them to come in? What's your comment in general on the fans'
reactions?

JOE TORRE: Well, when we start taking players off the field, obviously the bullpen is
part of that. My opinion of what happened is the sad part about it is you have a ballclub,
the Boston Red Sox, who have busted their ass all year to play and give this city
something to be proud of, and I think it's inexcusable -- not that Jimy Williams did what
he did. I'm a manager; I understand the frustration that goes on inside, and especially
everything he's been through this year, trying to keep this club together. But to have
people -- and it surprises me. I really haven't been exposed to Boston before these last
four years. Everywhere I've walked in the city these past couple of days, people have been
genuinely nice. But to have people throw stuff, that's -- that's disgraceful. It really
is. I know it's not an indication of Boston, Massachusetts, because I mean I've been
around the city now for four years, and it's been shown a lot of class to me. But tonight
was a bad mark against a very good team.

Q. Do you think Jimy Williams incited the crowd tonight?

JOE TORRE: I think the crowd was frustrated. Jimy Williams, if he incited the crowd,
that wasn't his intention. I know Jimy Williams, he's got too much class for that stuff.
He was frustrated. I mean I can tell you, it was a very emotional game for us tonight. We
left bases loaded, we did this, we did that. Then you find out you win the game, and
there's a lot of emotion. And, you know, fortunately for me, our emotion is good, and his
was of frustration. Maybe the fans used what Jimy did as an excuse to do what they did. I
don't look at Jimy inciting the crowd.

Q. You're up three games to one, but you seem not as elated about your position. Did
the events of the ninth inning take away from other sweetness of victory?

JOE TORRE: Yeah, quite a bit. Quite a bit. Plus the head of security for the Red Sox
was screaming at my players about staying in the dugout. That was a disappointment, the
show of absolutely no class whatsoever.

Q. Is that what happened with Jeff Nelson, was that an incident with the head of
security? Did he say something? Can you describe what went on there?

JOE TORRE: Yeah, I can't describe it because too many kids are going to be watching it.
I think you can get from that that the language wasn't very pretty. And I thought it was
uncalled for. That was it.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT