AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 12, 1999
Joe Torre
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. In your experience when a team gets 44 runs in the last three games, is that more
due to bad pitching or are these guys on a roll? 
 
 JOE TORRE: Well, you don't miss the pitches, you know, sometimes when you throw pitches
in the middle of the plate, you foul them back. They didn't foul any back. But there is no
question that the Boston Red Sox has given us all we can handle this year. They are a very
aggressive-type lineup. But again, I mean, if you ask Charles Nagy about that first pitch
to O'Leary he would like to have it back. So I think they made some mistakes pitching, but
again, they don't have to always hit them and they seemed to do that the last few days. 
 
Q. Pitching rotation?
 
 JOE TORRE: Pitching rotation, it will be Hernandez tomorrow, David Cone, Clemens, and
Pettitte. 
 
Q. Any thinking?
 
 JOE TORRE: There is no thinking. Just the way we -- obviously wanted to get David Cone
in the mix. In pitching David the second game, it gives us an extra day for Game 6 for him
and that is what we look for every time we pitch him, that extra day's rest. 
 
Q. That kind of sets up a Pedro/Clemens matchup. Your thoughts on that on Saturday?
 
 JOE TORRE: Going to be a lot of fun. Only thing I can think of. Obviously what Roger
has meant to that organization and that ballpark for a number of years and of course what
Pedro has done this year, I think it will be -- especially pitching in the shadows; if the
sun is out, it ought to be interesting. 
 
Q. How does Paul O'Neill feel today?
 
 JOE TORRE: I am waiting for him to come off the field now. He said he felt pretty good.
Probably felt as good as he did in the early part of the Texas series. Again, we really
don't know what that is going to -- how that is going to translate until -- he gave
himself a good work out today and continues to do it. Then we will see tomorrow morning
and we will try to push it right up against the deadline as far as announcing the roster. 
 
Q. Of course Pedro is only human but is there a mystique about him?
 
 JOE TORRE: Maybe. He is much more than that. There is no question that aside from all
the physical things that Pedro brings to the table, he has got that psychological edge of
what he has accomplished this year. There is no question. We will go out there and
hopefully be able to match him. That is all you can think about doing. You don't think
first of all, when you have a Roger Clemens going or a Pedro, you know you are going to
have your work cut out for you so just hopefully we can match and they can match us and it
will be the game it is supposed to be. 
 
Q. When you made your return in Boston this year, were you a little taken back that the
Red Sox fans were giving --
 
 JOE TORRE: I was very touched by that. In fact I wasn't going to take the lineup card
up. I was going to save that for coming home and I asked -- actually Rick Cerrone had
suggested that I take it up there and I asked my mentor, Mr. Zimmer. He said there is no
question, you should take it up there because he knows what kind of fans they have there.
I was very -- I don't want to say surprised, but very touched at the people standing and
the length of the applause and stuff like that. I didn't expect that. 
 
Q. Putting your thoughts on having a rested staff against Boston, which is very
fatigued at this point?
 
 JOE TORRE: Well, I think Jimy hit it last night when he said we are not tired. You
don't get tired when you are in postseason play. Sure, they can't pitch -- maybe they
can't line their pitchers up the way they would normally like to do that, but they are on
such a high right now against the odds, not only of beating a Cleveland Indians ballclub
but coming back down 2-0. They have ridden this thing. They will be tired when it is over
for them; whether it is this week, next week, the week after, whatever it is. Then I think
exhaustion sets in. But right now, they will do it on fumes if they have to and I don't
see any fall back other than not being able to maybe lineup people the way you want to do. 
 
Q. Does pitching give you an edge because of that?
 
 JOE TORRE: Seems to only because we have had the time to line them up. You still have
to execute. Still have to pitch the way you feel you are capable of pitching. We did
against Texas and we hope that continues. Sometimes too much rest is as much of a
hinderance as not enough rest. David Cone -- it will be 12 days since the last time he
pitched. So I think there is something to be said for both ways. 
 
Q. Could you talk about how it was that Hernandez became your number one starter on a
staff that is so strong?
 
 JOE TORRE: Well, I think with El Duque, first of all, both he and Roger have the
durability to be able to pitch long and then come back and pitch long the next time.
Hernandez was picked for Game 1 against Texas because he has put a lot of numbers up as
far as number of innings pitched, 7 and 8 innings, 7 and 8 innings and he didn't
disappoint us. Roger didn't either obviously. But Roger couldn't pitch Game 1 because he
just pitched. David has to pitch Game 2. So pretty much that fell into place for us the
way we needed it to fall into place. Everything we have done over the last couple of years
is trying to get that extra day for David Cone and that is why we pitched him in Game 2. 
 
Q. Can you people talk about what a big game pitcher El Duque has become. What are the
qualities that make him sort of effective in those situations?
 
 JOE TORRE: The challenge -- maybe he is an underdog or he could something and to watch
him pitch the way he did against -- Texas of course, but the way he pitched against
Cleveland in Game 4 that is the one we all keep going to. That was the biggest game of his
career and the biggest game of our year last year and then a foreign ballpark, of course
every ballpark is a foreign ballpark to him. But the fact that he wasn't pitching at home
I think added that much more credibility to what he did. As far as what drives him, I
think he put it in perspective last year it is only baseball after what he has had to
contend with getting over here. 
 
Q. Did you talk to Roger Clemens about pitching in Game 3 and does he want to pitch in
Fenway?
 
 JOE TORRE: We talked to all the starters. We brought them in one at a time then talked
to them together and Roger never hesitated as when he found out he was the Game 3 starter.
I think after the last outing he is anxious to get the ball again. 
 
Q. What about the Red Sox, have they impressed you during the regular season?
 
 JOE TORRE: No question, they grind at you. They beat us up here that weekend two
well-pitched ball games 11-10 or 12-11, whatever that middle game was in that series. They
take advantage of whatever weakness they may happen to spy on any particular day. I am
very impressed and I had mentioned it to the guys that I thought Jimy Williams has manager
of the year for keeping that ballclub focused on what they have to do with all the
injuries they have had. They lost Saberhagen a couple of times, Gordon all year, even
Pedro for a time after the All-Star break. And I was one of them that thought Toronto was
going to pass them. I guess it was in August sometime there in going for the wild card.
But he has kept that ballclub believing in themselves. So there are maybe a lot of things
you look on paper that they shouldn't beat the Cleveland Indians club but you are not
surprised they did. 
 
Q. Modern players aren't given a lot of credit for knowing the history of their game.
Do you think that your players understand just what Yankees Red Sox means and what this
series could mean?
 
 JOE TORRE: I don't know if end of the century stuff is coming into play, but they know
what it means to play in Fenway Park. There is no question. That is quite -- I don't even
want to say -- that is a middle-ring type of thing as it is here. And we just sense the
energy every time we go to that ballpark. I am sure we wish we had more room in the
clubhouse. I am sure they feel the same way. But as far as playing them, there is no
speech that I could make that could get them excited more than knowing they are going to
Fenway Park and that the Red Sox are coming here. It has been a rivalry back before me and
before them. But I think even if they don't know the ancient history that has these two
clubs involved, I think they have seen Bucky Dent's home run more so on that scoreboard
than they wanted to, especially with my bench coach being the manager of the Red Sox at
the time. But there is no question that you feel that this is going to be something
special. 
 
Q. Did you appreciate this rivalry even before you took the job and how does it measure
against the intracity rivalries that you grew up with the Dodgers --
 
 JOE TORRE: I think it was -- it is tough to try to match a Dodger/Giant thing only
because they had a share of the same city, same newspapers, the same everything. This one
puts city against city and two highly energized cities. It is two great East Coast cities
that love their sports, love to win and you know, of course the most recent history was
back in 1978 with what went on in that series, and giving the Yankees all the credit for
coming back, but realizing, I think -- what did the Red Sox win 99 or 98 games or
something that year? It is dynamite. It really is. We had no idea -- I sat down, watched
that game last night and I had no idea what was going to happen in that game. I really
didn't. Then to watch it start the way it did and all of a sudden settle into this
pitcher's dual, again, that didn't surprise you and to see you know, Pedro pitched up a
ball and goes out in the bullpen and you know, we can all do the guessing and what the
conversations were, but once you saw him pick the ball up and head out to the bullpen I
thought the most telling comment was Bob Brenly with the spikes in the dug out. To me that
was an indication that he definitely was going to pitch and again Jimy said he didn't know
how well he was going to pitch, but he didn't maybe have the velocity, but he pitched.
That is what separates him from a lot of pitchers. 
 
Q. Considering all that as you were watching the game last night any part of you
(inaudible) --
 
 JOE TORRE: I hate to even get into a mental game like that with myself because you try
to pick an opponent on who you'd rather face and you find yourself getting knocked off. I
just enjoyed the game of baseball last night really not having to pull for either side.
But knowing the challenge for both of us -- and you go up and down that Cleveland lineup,
it is not something you want to go into, and then go into that ballpark, those fans will
let you know. Then of course, Boston, it is a whole different scenario. I think the Red
Sox and the Yankees, if both clubs were battling for fourth or fifth place that would be
the rivalry -- still be a rivalry where I think if we go to Cleveland in the same
situation it wouldn't be. So there is no question that this is probably a lot more
exciting for both clubs. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT