AL DIVISION SERIES: INDIANS v YANKEES
October 2, 1997
Joe Torre
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What happened to Andy?

JOE TORRE: Good question. It looked like he was in good shape early in the game, making
good pitches, and everything got elevated in that five-run inning. Because we could have
helped him playing a little better defensively, but he just didn't locate the ball as
well.

Q. Joe, did Andy seem unnerved by the Hayes error?

JOE TORRE: Not really, because he struck out the next hitter. To me, that was a pretty
good indication. And he got the two strikes on Justice. I don't think he was unnerved by
it. I think he may have been -- the runner was going to get the first. The error just
enabled him to get the third.

Q. In the last rally, you used Boggs and Stanley, or Stanley and Boggs, you did not use
Cecil. What was your thinking?

JOE TORRE: Well, basically, I just went on numbers; Boggs' numbers against Mesa and
Stanley's numbers against Mesa. At that point in time when I used Boggs I was looking for
contact, because he just gave me one run closer. With the top of the order coming up, I
get a base hit, I'm satisfied. That was basically it, just on the numbers.

Q. Stanley has better numbers against Mesa?

JOE TORRE: Yeah. He's like 5 to 12, Cecil was like 5 to 30 with 13 strikeouts. 

Q. Would you talk about the way Jaret Wright came back after the shaky first inning?

JOE TORRE: We got the most, walked three and scored them. But that kid has good stuff.
It's understandable he'd be nervous. But he settled in. And he could strike you out. He
could get you to the ground ball. That's a very unusual combination. But he was very
strong.

Q. Joe, can you talk about how shocking it must have been to you to see Pettitte
struggle like that?

JOE TORRE: I don't know if shock is the right word. That's pretty strong. He's pitching
against a pretty good ball club. They made some adjustments on them. And the fact is he
didn't locate as well as he did early on. But the ball that Chad misjudged, that inning
ends 3-3. So it wasn't totally Andy. And everybody is entitled to an inning. And just a
five-run inning became a little much for us.

Q. Having been through last year, what is your evaluation of the situation; the 1-1
situation, first two series?

JOE TORRE: Well, I guess we won the game they should have won yesterday, and it was
vice-versa today. Baseball is unpredictable. Anytime you think you have something rolling,
there's the team across the field that seems to do something to you. We haven't done
anything easy. And we're not planning on expecting anything to be given to us. We have to
go to Cleveland and win two out of three. We're capable of doing it, obviously. We keep
bouncing back. We had a couple of opportunities late in the game. We couldn't get the job
done, but we keep fighting.

Q. Will you talk about Jeter's sudden power?

JOE TORRE: He's at a pretty good streak right now. He's swinging the bat well, he's on
the ball. He's not trying to pull the ball. And out here, in batting practice, he was
hitting a lot of home runs, a lot of balls out of the ballpark in batting practice today.
He is seeing the ball really well and feels good. Just hopefully it continues.

Q. Can you talk about Game 3, facing Charlie Nagy, and some of the reasons you've been
so successful against them?

JOE TORRE: I think probably the same reasons that they were successful against Andy,
the location. He just didn't make good pitches against us and we took advantage of it.
He's a good pitcher. We can't assume we're going to beat him up like we've beaten him up
before. He's pitched big games before. We just have to go in there and have our guy,
Wells, pitch a good ballgame. We're swinging the bat well. We're aggressive. I like that.
And, again, we've been through this before.

Q. After the throw session today is there any update on Cone? There seems to be a rumor
going around that he had to go to the hospital.

JOE TORRE: I'm not going to make any comment. 

Q. Cone did go to the hospital, is that what you said?

JOE TORRE: I'm not making any comment. That's all I said.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT