NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS v PHILLIES
October 15, 2008
Joe Torre
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You just addressed your team. What did you tell them?
 JOE TORRE: I basically told them that I was proud to be their manager. This has been an up-and-down year. I think they learned a lot. I think they learned to come together. Yeah, we made some additions, Manny (Ramirez) and Casey Blake and Greg Maddux. 
 But these kids didn't know what inning it was, they didn't know what score it was. They just kept fighting until someone told them it was over. 
 This game tonight, it got a little ugly in the middle with the defense, but they never stopped plugging away. And that's John Wooden taught me a long time ago, that it's not always the club that wins that you're proudest of. 
 And I certainly was satisfied with what I saw here.

 Q. You guys looked so good sweeping the Cubs. What happened in this series?
 JOE TORRE: Well, you know, they live by the homer; they die by the homer, and they got us this time. That was huge. The other night, opening day, the first game, I mean, when it just looked like Derek Lowe was just having no problem at all, all of a sudden a two-run homer and another home run in a matter of 10 minutes and they're ahead 3-2, and that was the final score. 
 They pitched real well out of the bullpen. We kept coming out -- we sort of kept skidding. We just kept spinning our wheels. We couldn't get to where we needed to go.

 Q. You had a young pitcher, starting pitcher struggle for the second time tonight in this series. You had a young hitter struggle throughout. How much will they gain from this experience?
 JOE TORRE: Well, I think that's immeasurable. To me, the experience now, it feels right now like it's the worst day of their lives. But I guarantee you, when they get to face this situation again, they're going to call upon what they did here and what they learned from it and they'll move on. 
 They've got some talent, these kids. And I think they did a lot of learning this year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT