MLB WORLD SERIES: ROCKIES v RED SOX
October 27, 2007
Clint Hurdle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Seems like this is always my lead-off question, but you know the record on teams that have been down 3-0 in the World Series.  What do you have planned next and how do you rally the troops? 
 CLINT HURDLE:  I don't know the record. 

 Q.  0-and-22. 
 CLINT HURDLE:  Okay, so it looks like we're in ground-breaking territory.  I mean, we need to go out and win Game 4.  I don't think you need to overreact or underreact.  You just show up, get ready to play and find a way to win Game 4. 

 Q.  How much different do you think this game maybe looks if a couple of those real, real close calls go your way?  There were so many balls that a foot makes a huge difference. 
 CLINT HURDLE:  That's why you play the game.  That's one of the interesting aspects of any big-time sport, when you go back and you look it over, would have, could have, should have, ifs and butts, they're always out there.  But there comes a point in time you've got to find ways to score runs, you've got to find ways to get out and you've got to find ways to make pitches and they've been able to do that a little more consistently than we have. 

 Q.  It seemed like so much was talked about before the game about no DH and Youkilis out of the lineup, but you bring out Ellsbury and Pedroia and they just were unstoppable today.  Can you talk about that? 
 CLINT HURDLE:  It started with Game 1, they had more good at-bats in Game 2.  Today it was off the charts.  They're setting the table as well as you could ever want.  They put us in some very difficult positions when you get into the middle of the lineup, then you've got to pick which guy you want out there, you want to go with Big Pop or Manny or Lowell.  That's not easy duty for anyone.  They're getting the job done at the top of the order.  They mixed it up with Ellsbury today, four hits, Pedroia, again, two outs from him in late, two runs, they've been doing a fantastic job at the top of the order.  We've got to find a way to slow them down. 

 Q.  We've all seen Holliday out here, but what could you say about him?  He's really come up big in the last two games? 
 CLINT HURDLE:  Well, he's a big-time player.  He's obviously coming into his own.  Every year he's improved.  The numbers have improved across the board every year, power numbers, batting average.  It's a very unique combination.  He can handle off-speed stuff, he can hit fastball, big swing of the bat for us to get, get us back in the game, scratch it away, close again.  He's a very, very good, good young player that's got a chance to be great. 

 Q.  On that ball that drops in where Brad closes in, did you think he had a play?  Did he tell you he thought he had a play?  How did that play kind of go down? 
 CLINT HURDLE:  I definitely think he thought he had a play.  Positioned where we were he had to go a long way to get the ball and he lays out and he tried to make a great play and he can't come up with it.  Again, it comes down to the fact that the kid in the top of the order, you put some good at-bats on us today in some big situations for them.  You're facing Fuentes isn't easy duty, left on left, and of all things he pulls the ball directly down the line which is not an area that we're shaded to by any means. 

 Q.  In the third inning against Lugo, it seems like an intentional walk.  What was your decision? 
 CLINT HURDLE:  You said was it an unintentional intentional walk or intentional unintentional walk? 

 Q.  Either way. 
 CLINT HURDLE:  Either way.  I think you're right, either way, you're right (laughter).  No, we didn't want to give him something to pitch.  We would prefer to take our chances pitching to Matsuzaka.  The way it worked out is we walked him and we got the pitcher up with two outs.  Matsuzaka found a way to get a ground ball through the left side of the infield.  That was a swing of the bat that provided some discomfort for us. 

 Q.  What do you anticipate out of Cook after so much time off? 
 CLINT HURDLE:  Well, it's not like he hasn't pitched.  He's pitched -- he's the right man for the job right now.  We'll see what he can give us.  I know he's geared up and ready to go.  He's been waiting for this opportunity since he was six years old.  It's going to be a big challenge, but he's a big boy.  He's a young man, but we'll see how it goes.  I have every confidence he'll go out there and put us in good position to win a ballgame. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT