NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v MAGIC
May 21, 2010
Matt Barnes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Are you feeling OK?   
 MATT BARNES: Yeah, feel good.   
  
  Q. Practice go all right for you guys?   
 MATT BARNES: Yeah, practice was good. We just went over a couple of things we changed, and just keeping sharp.   
  
  Q. Big weekend for you guys. But do you just treat it like any other trip to Boston?   
 MATT BARNES: No, it's not like any other trip at all. We're going there to win. We have to take it one game at a time. But you know tomorrow night we need a win. It's definitely, you know, higher urgency. The season is on the line.   
  
  Q. Is it hard to stay loose once with a game you have to win?   
 MATT BARNES: No, this is our job. It is what we have to do. We have to play under pressure. To win a championship you have to win games like this. So, you know, tomorrow night is a big night for us.   
  
  Q. Knowing that you guys have to go out there and win the game, talk about just not putting too much pressure on yourself but still understanding it is the biggest game of the season.   
 MATT BARNES: We have to go out there and play our game. Both teams -- you know, both teams may be a little uptight to begin the game.   
 Once that ball goes, you run up and down the court a couple of times, you settle in and pay attention to what you need to do.   
  
  Q. Did Van Gundy give you a big sheet of statistics or anything like that this week?   
 MATT BARNES: No, no. You know, we're down 2-0. We know if they win two games, it's over. There's no stats that need to be told. We know we need to win.   
  
  Q. How has your role changed at all for this series?   
 MATT BARNES: You know, I haven't been playing as much due to my back and, I guess, maybe due to match-ups. Hopefully tomorrow night I'll be able to stay out there a little longer and help my team.   
  
  Q. Do you expect to be on Pierce?   
 MATT BARNES: Like I said, that's still up in the air. I'm ready for whoever. I want to guard Pierce. We'll see.   
  
  Q. How is your back today?   
 MATT BARNES: It's fine.   
  
  Q. All season long you guys talked about winning a championship as your goal. If it ends anywhere short of that, is that a failure?   
 MATT BARNES: Absolutely. This team went to the finals last year and lost. To bring all the new pieces in and talk about winning the titles, if we don't make it to the finals, it's definitely a failure.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT