RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2017
Johnny Ruiz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nice playing, you got into this event through the top three on the Mackenzie Tour Order of Merit.  Talk about the experience today and the way you played.  
JOHNNY RUIZ: It was awesome out there.  A little nervous to start off the round, but got off to a good start.  Made some putts and yeah, made some birdies.  The back nine, just kind of went through a little par streak.  Had a bogey.  But overall, it was a great round.   
 Q.  What was your anticipation level like coming into this event?  
JOHNNY RUIZ: I was excited.  I just wanted to get the week started already.  But yeah, just going out there and having fun this week.  No expectations.   
 Q.  People say golf is golf, but it's one thing to compete on the Mackenzie Tour, and the guys are really good, but then to come out here.  
JOHNNY RUIZ: Both tours, the guys are obviously really good, either way.  But out here, you've got to go low every round.  You can't really have a round where you shoot even or 1-over.   
 Q.  A little bit of a different setting obviously than on the Mackenzie Tour.  Everything is a little bit bigger.  How have you been able to manage some of that and stay within yourself and realize that, hey, you have a job to do out there between the ropes?  
JOHNNY RUIZ: A lot bigger, yeah.  Everything moves a little quicker.  My coach is on the bag this week and he kept me really calm all day today.  Doing breathing techniques and trying to stay external and in the moment and not get too far ahead.   
 Q.  Who is your coach?  
JOHNNY RUIZ: George Gankas.  Swing Tips.   
Feels good to play with the big boys this week and glad I could get a good round started.   
 Q.  Best thing to understand is good golf is good golf, doesn't matter who is on it.  
JOHNNY RUIZ: Yeah, good golf is good golf, and hopefully keep going this week.   
 Q.  What did you think about this golf course, Nicklaus golf course, with the par 5s gettable?  
JOHNNY RUIZ: Yeah, we have a couple of them in California and all of them are really good.  You have to take advantage of the par 5s and hole a couple where you can.   
 Q.  You want to play really well this week but, the big fact of the matter is you have a place to play next year and take care of things there.  
JOHNNY RUIZ: Yeah, hopefully if I can go back to the Mackenzie and finish up the last six strong, I'll hopefully get to the Web next year and hopefully be here in the next couple years.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT