ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 2, 2012
Josh Cassidy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tell me a little bit about why you're here and who your main competitor is, who you're going after?  
    JOSH CASSIDY:   Yeah, I'm trying to remember even, this is my fifth or sixth, I don't know.   
   
 Q.   This year?  
    JOSH CASSIDY:   Yeah, I think I've done over 24 or 25 marathons total now.   But Kurt is always‑‑ he's won this how many times, so he's sort of the main one, and so is Masazumi Soejima from Japan, as well.   There's going to be a lot of Paralympians that are here in the competition, so great field.  
   
 Q.   And you were in the Paralympics?  
    JOSH CASSIDY:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   How did you do?  
    JOSH CASSIDY:   It wasn't good for me.   I was sick, antibiotics the whole time, just a bad time.   So it was a pretty rough personal experience despite all of the amazing things at the games themselves.   I just focused on bouncing back.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
    JOSH CASSIDY:   No, I just didn't run well on antibiotics, infection, under the weather.   Nothing you can do.   I tried to do everything I could, but there's only so much you can handle.  
   
 Q.   Did you enjoy the experience, though, of being there?  
    JOSH CASSIDY:   Oh, yeah, London did an absolutely incredible job.   I don't have a single bone to pick of something they could do better there.   It was thought through to the very end.   It was amazing, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Tell me more about your training coming into New York.   When did you get past that illness and what was your training?   
    JOSH CASSIDY:   Well, to be honest, it's interesting because usually after something like the buildup to the games, a break would happen, but I did two races in England, the Great North Run and a tunnel race, Chicago Marathon, so since then it was just continuous sort of training, but different mindset than usual.   It's been more maintaining than trying to push harder with this crazy schedule.  
   
 Q.   How was your recovery after Chicago?  
    JOSH CASSIDY:   It was actually great, that week.   I continued even after Chicago to push better the next two weeks.   Last week was tough for me with the bad weather blowing across in Toronto.   It was tough training last week.   But I'm not as stressed, not too much pressure on myself because schedule wise I don't want to overdo it, too, so it's sort of a maintain thing.  
   
 Q.   Tell me a little bit about your thoughts about bringing awareness.   You said you wanted to do Chicago because you were Canadian.   
    JOSH CASSIDY:   Well, I didn't want to be like‑‑ it would be different if I was a marathoner.   I think it would be looked at differently.   At the same time, I think someone has got to say something because just coming out of the games, the coverage was so good in London, I think based on the Paralympic movement, whatever it was, and attraction to it, to me it's nice to take a gamble on something.   So it was more it's been done and it worked well, and there's a lot of athletes in the U.S. that are amazing.   
   
 Q.   Did it give you sort of a cause?  
    JOSH CASSIDY:   Yeah, I think in general I'm a very positive person, but at the same time if there's something that bugs me I won't keep my mouth shut.   I think that's one of the reasons why I got into racing was because‑‑ not to be conceited, but it was to make a difference so my voice would be heard by a little bit more.   Whether it's this or another cause, I kind of have a responsibility to make sure that I bring awareness.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT