ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT PAUL LAWRIE MATCH PLAY
August 5, 2016
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. An eagle and five birdies today.  Happy again?
MARC WARREN: Yeah, happy scoring-wise.  Could have been a little bit better off the tee, but short game and putting was definitely on form this morning.  So delighted to get through, which was a tough match.
Q. It seemed a tough match.  Seemed like you couldn't quite pull away, even though 3&2 is still a handsome score.
MARC WARREN: Yeah, there was I think -- Magnus started with a great three at the first and then I birdied 2 and 3 to get 1-up.  Then we both made quite a few pars, a lot of halves after that.  It was nice to kind of stretch the lead a little on 9, and eagle on 11 was always nice, as well, after he birdied 10.
So it was kind of coming alive a bit at the turn there and a little bit scrappy towards the end but holed a nice putt on 16 to finish the match.
Q. How was it out there, a lot of rain overnight, plenty during the morning?
MARC WARREN: Yeah, there was.  Fortunately there was no wind.  But the rain was kind of on and off.  Didn't really get that heavy, so it wasn't too bad.  Wasn't like the equipment was getting wet or anything.  It was just on and off, but I think it's hopefully going to be a nice afternoon.
Q. And the course is fine, not too much damage with the rain?
MARC WARREN: No, it's maybe even better if anything.  I think the greens have maybe profited a bit from a bit of the rain.  Running a little bit smoother this morning.  Yeah, hopefully it will be similar conditions this afternoon.
Q. Are you conscious of maintaining energy, considering it could be like 36 holes in a day?
MARC WARREN: Yeah, definitely, go put the feet up now.  I'm not sure what time yet.  I'm not sure how much time I do have.  But definitely like to go to the range and hit a few drivers anyway, figure something out.  But for the most part it will be just trying to conserve energy like you said.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT