BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 8, 2015
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Well played today.  That all seemed to go pretty well out there for you?  
MARC WARREN: That bogey-free round around the golf course is obviously very pleasing.  No complaints from today.   
 Q.  What pleases you the most, the 66 or the fact that you haven't dropped a shot through 18 holes?  
MARC WARREN: I think the fact that I didn't drop a shot was very pleasing.  New drivers and new irons and new golf ball this week, so changing quite a bit.  It was nice to see them perform well.  To be bogey free shows that every part of your game is probably good on a golf course as tough as this.  To make six birdies and any round bogey-free is always a bonus.   
 Q.  Four Top-10s this year, two of them in Scotland.  You seem to like playing on UK soil.  A Top-10 in the UK would be nice to add to that?  
MARC WARREN: Yeah, absolutely.  It's great to have those tournaments back in the schedule.  I remember growing up and watching it on TV and everything.  Nice to play it a couple of times as well.  Great to be back.  Obviously a great venue makes it even more special.   
 Q.  17th on the Race to Dubai.  This is going to be by far and away your best season as a professional.  Have you been surprised by how well it's gone this year?  
MARC WARREN: I think the last two years I've shown a bit of progression.  This year has been the same.  I need to keep the gas around and (indiscernible) so I'm feeling fresh and ready to go.  Hopefully a strong finish to the season.   
 Q.  Finally, good crowds in today.  Have you enjoyed your opening round?  
MARC WARREN: Yes, it's been incredible.  The atmosphere straight from the start this morning was great.  There was people out.  We teed off from 10, which was quite a way from the clubhouse.  People were out there watching already.  The Ryder Cup captain was getting the crowds out.  It was nice to hear the roars from other parts of the golf course as well.  It was a nice atmosphere..   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT