THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2015
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MARC WARREN: It was as good as it gets, I think, at the Open at St. Andrews.  Delighted to be under par.  Conditions were tough, getting tougher as the day went on, and the back nine was a brutal finish there.  17 was almost playing a three-shotter when we were on it.  Delighted to get out of there with a par at 17 and 18.Q. (Inaudible.)MARC WARREN: Yeah, we were actually saying if we could get in the bunker, a little bit back from the face it wouldn't be the worst place to be.  I think I had about 257 to the hole there.  Just hit 5-wood, a lucky shot, and it was probably about five yards left of where I wanted.  But like I said, we weren't aiming for the bunker but we knew if it was going in the bunker, hopefully get a decent lie and shouldn't be too tough a shot playing back into the wind.  The lie was really nice and basically just opened the club face as much as I could and hit it as hard as I could.  Actually when I jumped back out of the bunker, I just seen it about two inches short, I thought it was in, caught quite a lot of flag.  I didn't think it was going to be short.  I thought I definitely had enough on it to get to the hole.  It was turning in nicely, as well, and finished right in the jaws.  But I think the tee shot just left me in a tricky place on 18.  Probably went about 30 yards farther than we thought it was going to go, and basically too close to try and get anywhere near the flag without taking ranks that I didn't need to take.  I haven't even looked at a forecast.  I've just heard it's going to be Armageddon, but we've seen it all before. An early tee time, hopefully weather when forecast is going to be a little bit later in the morning.  Fingers crossed.  Like I said, I haven't seen a forecast.  Is it going to get worse in the afternoon?  No? Yeah, weather is going to be -- I'm just going to enjoy this round first.Q. When you see guys shooting 5-, 6- and 7-under before you even start, how do you feel?MARC WARREN: I think this golf course when the conditions are like that, you expect the scoring to be low.  There's no wind and it's quite soft, the greens as good as they are, for me it's a golf course I always try and be as patient as I possibly can on because I think when you see guys making birdie, especially the front nine, guys make a lot of birdies and you're going to try and force them a little bit too much, which I've been guilty of that definitely in the past, so that's why I feel as if I try and play within myself.  Middle of the green a lot of the time here isn't bad as opposed to thinking I need to try and get it to 5, 6, 7 and start chasing it.  I think it can lure you in and it can sting you a little bit.Q. (Inaudible.)MARC WARREN: No, it would be great if more coverage for Scottish players in general.  I think that's something that is lacking across the board.  Definitely try and play better to try and get more coverage, but it seems as if we're kind of against the breeze a little bit, shall we say, to put it nicely.  Yeah, it's just one of those things.  It's something that's totally out of my control.  If I keep shooting and playing as well as I am just now, then if they want to show me, great, and if they don't, then that's fine, as well.Q. (Inaudible.)MARC WARREN: Yeah, absolutely.  You know, he's been kind of struggling a wee bit the last couple years and obviously played a lot this year, so it's good to see him back.  He obviously enjoys this championship.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT