U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2015
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Here with Marc Warren, who shot a 68 today, minus 2 for the first day of the championship.  Mark, tell us a little bit about your round today, some of the highs, maybe some of the lows.  MARC WARREN: It was a good start today.  Obviously overall it was a good start.  But during the round, the first seven or eight holes were really solid.  I was really patient and seemed to be hitting the golf ball in all the right places on the fairways and the greens. Good one at 5, I hit a really good 5-iron in there.  7-iron to about ten foot on 4, and a really good 5-iron to about the same distance on 5.  Liked the start. Probably lost a little bit of my rhythm or tempo around the time, about three, four holes there, couple of bad tee shot, couple of not-so-good iron shots, but then the last six or seven holes played really well.  My swing just felt back in sync again.  Played really good. Could have been one or two better, but to knock it on 18 in two and finish with a really good two-putt, it was a nice way to finish.   Q.  Is this a physical exerting round of golf?  After you are done, are you pretty wiped out?  Tell us how it was out there walking.  MARC WARREN: For links style golf, which is obviously really firm, your legs will feel it and your feet will feel it at the end of the day.  The elevation change around here is unusual for links golf.  You are going to feel it at the end of the day.  I said to my caddie, Ken, that come Sunday you are going to know you have been in a golf tournament the last week.  Your legs are definitely going to know.  It's tough walking. You have actually got to be quite careful as well.  There's been a couple of injuries already.  The grass being so shiny, it becomes sloppy when it drys out.  It's a tough walking course, a tough course mentally.  You have really got to be on the ball with everything around you.  That's what the USGA wants and expects in a U.S. Open and that's what the players expect as well.   Q.  Was the course gettable today?  Was it holding shots better than you thought, better than it did in practice?  Was there any difference?  What change do you see maybe coming tomorrow afternoon when you are out there?  MARC WARREN: This morning it was slightly softer than it had been in practice, so you could take on a couple more flags.  The ball was stopping a little bit easier, but you can't get overly aggressive, as tempting as it is, because the ball was stopping a little bit easier.  The undulations can put your ball 30, 40, 50 yards away from the green.  You still had to be very patient, although distance control was much easier to start the round than it was at the end.  I could see it drying out, more like the practice rounds.  And tomorrow afternoon I think will be exactly the way the course played Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT