BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2015
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Thoughts on the day?   Happy with that?  
MARC WARREN:   The wind was getting up as the day went on and the greens were getting a little bit longer, as well.   It was a tough afternoon.   Yeah, absolutely delighted with 4‑under.  
   
 Q.   Score suggests you got it going early on and held on nicely.   
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, a really good front nine, played really solid tee‑to‑green.   Hit a lot of different shots which I think this course can ask the question of you, shape it both ways, high and low, and front nine, I was up to the task.   
Back nine, felt as if I played solid more than anything else, two really good up‑and‑downs at 15, 16.   Kind of kept the momentum going and then two really good shots on 18.   Simple 2‑putt and finished with a nice birdie.  
   
 Q.   Are you confident coming in here with your history?  
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, I think the way this season, I've been playing pretty well and coming back to this venue which I really enjoy.   Asks a lot of tough questions of you but that's the type of golf I like to play.   
I like to shape the ball both ways and I think for me, it makes it easier when the shots are just in front of you as opposed to getting in your own way a little bit.  
   
 Q.   How have you been playing across the season?  
MARC WARREN:   Really good start to the season.   Second tournament Qatar, played Sun City ‑‑ and then Race to Dubai, as well, good start.   I think I'm still Top‑20; I haven't looked for a few weeks, actually, in Race to Dubai.   When you get to this point, there's a feeling of the real season starting, really good summer for us, a lot of great events to look forward to and none bigger than this one.  
   
 Q.   Have you grown into being one of the better players out here?   You've come accustomed to being near the top and had big expectations of yourself.   
MARC WARREN:   I think the last couple years went really well for me.   Got myself up the rankings a little bit, close to Top‑50 in the world, best finish in Race to Dubai last year and carried on from the year before which was my best.   I feel really comfortable when I see my name on the leaderboard now.   It's not that I expect it because expectations in this game can be really dangerous.   
One of the things I've got going for me right now as far as golf goes is I don't expect too much of myself.   Try and let all the hard work in my came come to the fore.   
   
 Q.   The front nine‑‑  
MARC WARREN:   First tee shot, for example, the bunker on the left is further away than the one on off the right and the wind is off the left, so if you have a fade, if you over‑cut it it's going to be past the trap; you hit it straight, this wind it's going to be short of the trap.   That kind of set us up nicely for a fade.   
3, just nice bit of left‑to‑right there, the wind is in off the left, suits a fade, as well, and then you get to 4, the par5 around the corner, which is a right‑to‑left tee shot, wind off the right, as well.   The course is kind of mapped out for you and also there's a few tough tee shots but it's up to you.  
Like 9, for example, is a tough tee shot.   Personal preference there, I just see that trap on the left and hit a little fade off it.   Anywhere in the fairway there is good.   
And then tee shot, I'm pretty comfortable on 11.   Feel as if it's quite a wide target, off the left‑hand side just hit it hard and the wind will move it back for you.   A lot of examples of that, and obviously 18.   
   
 Q.   What did you use on 18?  
MARC WARREN:   Hit a fade off 18, 3‑wood.   And then a 5‑wood, high, fade, 5‑wood which is probably the best shot of the day to be fair.   
   
 Q.   How close was it?   
MARC WARREN:   I had 243 to the hole, 25 feet maybe.   
   
 Q.   Just missed?   
MARC WARREN:   I thought it was a double a breaker but kind of went right‑to‑left and didn't come back.   But pitch was nice and good tap.   A wee bit bumpy as the day goes on, and softer than I've ever seen it which kind of gave me an advantage a couple of times when I short‑sided myself 15, 16, able to get up‑and‑down.   If it was firmer it would be more difficult.  
   
 Q.   Players this morning were getting frustrated out there, and I saw 13, the pitch at 13, you certainly got frustrated at that.   Was that a sign of how things can turn out there?   
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, obviously really close to the hole, I was probably only three paces from the hole, and flag was three from the right and was probably another couple of feet there.   You're looking to hole it but it was setting down a little bit.   
But I just thought, you know, kind of putted it and tapped it down and I just thought, if I get a decent connection it's got a really good chance of going in.   Obviously putter is more unpredictable and couldn't get the wedge down underneath the ball, popped out and released away.   
After a good chance at the hole before, which I just hit through the break from about six, seven foot and a good shot in there‑‑ if it was a yard shorter, I've got ten feet for birdie.   You make bogey, and then the next, hit a good shot, which just goes a little bit past, got five, six‑foot for par.   I knew that one was more important than the hole before, even though I go bogey, bogey, feel I'm hitting good shots.   Holed that, a bit of momentum.   Kept the momentum and two good up‑and‑downs the next couple holes.  
   
 Q.   So 16 was from the bunker.   Where was 15 from?   
MARC WARREN:   16 I was on the edge of the bunker.   I was in the downslope in the rough.   Then it was just a total kind of full shot, nothing predictable about it.   
15 was short right in the front right trap and I hit left rough and then I didn't have a great lie, just hit a nice 8‑iron and came out kind of short right and it was a full kind of Mickelson, dramatic flop shot which landed left of the green.   It landed quite soft and trickled down.   
   
 Q.   The Scottish, is that one of your biggest disappointments?  
MARC WARREN:   The Scottish?   I didn't do anything wrong.   You lose a playoff‑‑ I gave myself a good chance and hit a really good putt actually on 17 and 18.   16 had a good chance.   Unfortunately it was just downhill from about ten foot.   There was nothing else I could have done.   If I felt I made a mistake, you get frustrated but obviously I didn't hit the best tee shot in the world in the playoff.   If it makes the carry, you're going to be good, 5‑ or 6‑iron.   
Definitely no disappointment.   Obviously you look back and go, you win‑‑ I think Justin Rose called it a bucket list tournament; it's definitely one of those tournaments where you come so close, it definitely gets you fired up and when you come back, you want to kind of right the wrongs.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT