COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 24, 2015
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   No clever questions.   Just what are your thoughts on the way the week has worked out?  
MARC WARREN:   Overall, massively positive week, I think starting with 1‑under par and then putting together rounds of seven under, 5‑under, 5‑under‑‑ I think it was 5‑under today.   It was a little bit up‑and‑down out there, but yeah, you know, to putt three rounds together like that on a golf course like this is really pleasing.   I think the weather's been a little bit kinder to us than it normally is around here.   It's normally a little bit breezier.  
Yeah, the last ten holes, I think it's some of the best golf I've ever played to be honest.  
   
 Q.   When you say up‑and‑down today, talk us through it a little, because it was explosive to start.  
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, started birdie, birdie.   Didn't feel as in sync as it has been and obviously starting with two birdies, you can't complain and hit a really good drive off 4 and thought, back in again, and poor drive off 5.   
It was a little bit all over the place, and then poor shot on 8, made double‑bogey there.   Then walking to the 9th tee, just swing thoughts‑‑ I had fallen into bad thoughts or whatever and moved the ball further forward in my stance the last nine holes and never missed a shot after that and seemed to work.  
   
 Q.   Birdie at the last and it was playoff.   
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, Branden made the great eagle and good birdie on 17 just tried to hang on to his coattails a little bit.  
Birdied 18 and you know, feel as if I thought I hit a really good drive down there.   Gave myself a good chance at it.   Wedge didn't go quite as far as I thought it was going to.   But yeah, it's kind of 30‑foot uphill chance to get in a playoff, and took a little break off it, so was hitting it farther than I normally would.   
   
 Q.   All the positives, you actually sound like you're buzzing and looking forward to next week presumably now.   
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, definitely.   I wish next week started tomorrow, after playing ten holes like that.   Yeah, it's a second place but it's not like I haven't kind of made any mistakes coming in.   It was exactly the opposite to be honest.   It was kind of foot down and go forward.   Felt like I was swinging well the last few holes.   I was going at flags and the putts were going in.   Overall it was a really exciting day to be honest.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT