COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 23, 2015
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   One dropped shot on a way to a really good 67, how did it feel for you? 
MARC WARREN:   It was good.   Really solid today.   Missed a few greens on the back nine but short game kind of held it together and then a few good iron shots now and again.   Overall really pleasing day.

Q.   You've won a few times on Tour, Johnnie Walker, and then there was a little bit of a gap until Made in Denmark.   How much of a spring in the step do you have? 
MARC WARREN:   I think so.   The last few years I've shown a lot of progress again.   Came close a couple times.   Didn't quite go over the line and that was something that came quite easy, I suppose at the start of my career.   Every time I was in contention, I seemed to win. 
I'm confident in my ability to do that and it was nice to actually prove it again.   It's one thing to be confident and to actually do it is another thing.   Definitely a spring in the step.

Q.   What is it about this place with the Scots. 
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, I don't know, I guess it's kind of a linksy‑feel, kind of big, undulating greens that are generally quite firm.   It's generally windy.   Not been so windy the last couple of days but seem to be enjoying it so far. 

Q.   What's the verdict on day three, another very tidy score out there?
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, I would probably say very solid start to finish.   Loads of birdies and not many bogeys, so all in all, adds up to another good Saturday‑‑ Friday, I suppose. 

Q.   Puts you in a lovely position, as well. 
MARC WARREN:   Yes, definitely.   After a really good round yesterday, I felt as if I got myself back in the tournament and then to carry it on, that form today, kind of keep my name on the leaderboard going into tomorrow was the main objective of today.   I've definitely done that.

Q.   You say a little bit linksy; does that appeal?
MARC WARREN:   It does, visualising the approach shots into the greens, and there's something obviously growing up in Scotland I'm pretty comfortable with and so far this week, very comfortable, as well. 

Q.   What are your thoughts into the final day?
MARC WARREN:   Just keep up the same thing.   Keep doing what I'm doing, and give it the best I can.   Just really concentrate, and the main thing I'll be doing tomorrow is really concentrate and focus on what I'm doing.   If someone shoots a lower score than me, good luck to them, but I'll certainly be giving it all I can tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT