COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 22, 2015
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on a round of 65, pause that's some going, isn't it?  
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, obviously very pleased.   Going out, it was kind of on the cut mark and tried to get as far away from that as possible.   You know, around the turn, I played the back nine first, and then once I started, kind of got to the front nine, 3‑putted for bogey and then three birdies in a row again, so kind of obviously got it, going there.   
I holed a few really good putts today, missed a cupping, as well, but a couple short ones for par, but holed my fair share of birdie putts.   
   
 Q.   Anything to tell about the eagle itself.   
MARC WARREN:   It was just three really good shots.   I hit a really good drive down the right‑hand side, dog‑leg left‑to‑right, made it play a little bit shorter and it was right on the limit.   Hit it as good as I possibly could to seven feet and rolled down for a nice three.  
   
 Q.   It's a day when a lot of players can have actually struggled despite perfect conditions.   Is it still tough out there?  
MARC WARREN:   Greens are firming up a little bit and the flags are kind of tucked away over tiers and even just 9 to finish, get in with a pitching wedge, but you couldn't really go at the flag, because it's tucked over the water, water, short and right.   Yeah, pin positions are tough today, so kind of the main reason why the scoring isn't quite as good.  
   
 Q.   Are you feeling a nice sense of progress, second of event?   
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, after quite a bit of time off, I felt as if I drove the ball well last week, which was even more frustrating, because that's probably the most important part.   I felt yesterday was the same.   
My iron play wasn't quite as good as I'd like it, but today, especially my back nine, I hit a lot of good iron shots down the flag and as a result gave myself a lot of birdie chances and generally putted okay and managed to make a few.   
The last few years, I used to do it religiously, the last few years, basically just try and do my best every round, every shot, if I can come off the golf course doing that, you can't do any more.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT