ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
September 21, 2014
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What is the verdict on 12‑under par this week?
MARC WARREN:   I think overall, very pleased.   Far from my best, I feel like I struggled the last three days.   Really patient with my game, because I didn't feel totally comfortable, I was going toward middle of greens and trying to stay as patient as much as I possibly can.   I like to play aggressive, but really pleased.   Good weekend. 

Q.   The way you started, presumably today you're thinking, all sorts of possibilities and then one hole was your undoing. 
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, on 11, the par5, middle of the fairway there and hit a poor 3‑wood, second shot and nice to get up‑and‑down for birdie.   8‑iron from the middle of the fairway to the next, just made a poor swing.   Tried to keep it left of the flag and still goes right and was very difficult from there. 
I felt as if I got a couple bad breaks on the green, as well there.   Hit a good first putt that was breaking inside left of the hole and then kind of hit a footprint, went left and missed.   Next putt did exactly the same, from about a foot, foot and a half. 
Yeah, that was difficult to take.   But bounced back nicely and holed a 15‑footer on the next for birdie and I felt as if that got me back into it again. 

Q.   The juices were probably still flowing, because you know there are chances and you've seen what your playing partner, Tommy Fleetwood, did. 
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, Tommy was struggling up till that point and then obviously an incredible finish, got right back into the tournament.   He played well.   He played okay all day and then obviously got it going.   Looked to be swinging it well.   Like I say, an incredible finish. 

Q.   A little matter of Ryder Cup not that far from home for you.   Watching? 
MARC WARREN:   Yes, I will be.   I'm going out there on Friday, sample the atmosphere and everything.   Hopefully see Europeans going towards another big victory. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT