PORTUGAL MASTERS
September 24, 2017
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. The eagle on 17, we thought we might have been in for a dramatic climax here but it's been a great final day and you must feel like you did what you could to try to put pressure on the leader?
MARC WARREN: Absolutely.  I didn't look at the leaderboards.  I knew the middle of the back nine Lucas was a few in front, so just trying to finish as best as I could.  You know, trying not to go chasing it, stay patient.  A couple tough holes coming in early.  16 is obviously a long par 3.
Once I birdied 15, parred 16, I was just trying to finish well on the last two.  Hit absolutely perfect shots and finished off with a putt on 17 and just couldn't bring myself to hit the putt firm enough at the last.  It was straight into the grain.  Something I struggled with most of the week was leaving kind of longer putts short and got me a bit at the end there.  Like I said, the last two holes, really pleased with that.
Q. It's a question I suppose of focusing on your own game, and as you say, not looking at what others are doing?
MARC WARREN: Absolutely.  I knew going out today, obviously need a good round.  You're in contention and conditions were favourable again.  The wind was a little bit less than yesterday.  Greens seemed a little bit softer, as well, which helps approach shots.  All day I drove the ball as good as I possibly could.  Iron play wasn't quite as sharp as it could have been the front nine but absolutely no complaints.  I think it was 3- or 4-under the back nine, so really pleased with that.
Q. That keeps your record of having a Top-10 finish in each of the last 13 seasons, which is a pretty consistent record?
MARC WARREN: Yeah, I'd like to add a few more to that obviously.  It's just nice to be kind of pretty much 100 percent fit again.  You know, like I said, driving the ball as well as I have done, if I keep the driving stats up, short game is pretty good.  I think we can have a good, strong finish to the season.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT