THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2014
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  MARC WARREN: Yeah, good to play four rounds, I suppose.  I am glad this finished and we have a week off.  It's been a long run.  Obviously a good week last week, and disappointing to finish today and not play well the weekend.  But it's kind of been a trend for the last five or six years, so it's not surprising.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  MARC WARREN: Yeah, I mean, it's still great.  Still The Open.  And one of the last six, ten groups, however, and the crowds were great.  A deafening noise when you do hit a good shot or when my playing partners hit a good shot. So yeah, it was a great experience.  I enjoyed it as much as I could.   Q.  What are you doing next week?  MARC WARREN: I think the US PGA.  So a few weeks off.  Looking forward to a rest.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  MARC WARREN: Yeah, I'll probably see Allen next week, maybe the end of the week or something.  I spoke to him on the phone and asked how are my swings doing?  He said it was pretty good.  It wasn't far away, but I just wasn't feeling comfortable with what I was doing.  It's still relatively new, so when it goes off a wee bit, I'm not quite sure how to fix it myself yet. But overall it was definitely much better, the first couple of days were really good, and obviously continued good form from last week.  Last week was good. So it was a disappointing weekend, but just looking forward to a nice week of rest coming up.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  MARC WARREN: Yeah, exactly.  Short game and stuff like that was good.  76 was actually a good score considering the places ahead it.  Yesterday getting at level par was good.  I felt I use putts gained stats and yesterday was first time I've lost after a while.  Normally I'm gaining on that on a regular basis.  And today I would imagine it would be quite similar.  So for me I putted poor, but still finished 50th or something.  Not too bad, considering how I felt I played and putted all weekend.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT