ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 12, 2014
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How do you feel about your day's work? 
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, very good.   I think the front nine, I played really well, really in control of what I was doing.   It was a little bit scrappy towards the end there.   Maybe hit a couple of fairway bunkers which is kind of a one‑shot penalty around here.   Managed to save par once but gave myself a good chance at 18, but not to be. 
So tied going into tomorrow, in a great position, very exciting position, as well.

Q.   How much are you looking forward to the opportunity of winning your National Championship?
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, I mean, for us Scottish guys, it doesn't get much better than this.   Very excited, obviously I think playing with Justin Rose tomorrow, which will just add to the occasion, as well.   Hopefully the home support will be right behind me as well.

Q.   What would it mean to win tomorrow? 
MARC WARREN:   It would be great for me.   Like I said, it's our fifth major.   I would say outside of the four majors, it doesn't get any bigger for us.   Like I said, it's very, very exciting.   You don't want to get ahead of yourself. 

Q.   Your feelings after that; that was some pretty good front‑running golf you were playing out there?
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, I felt really comfortable what I was doing.   Unfortunately hitting in a couple of fairway traps on the back nine there but I didn't feel like I made bad swings at all.   Front nine, first 12, 13 holes was really good, I was really in control of what I was doing and keeping things really simple, and, you know, decent finish, as well.   So really chuffed with today's work.

Q.   And a huge sense of anticipation heading into the final round. 
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, it is an exciting position to be in.   Doesn't get much better than this, playing with a Major Champion tomorrow and in front of my home fans, Scottish Open.   It's all there to do and hopefully I play as well as I did today.

Q.   What is mind‑set?   Is it a case of trying to embrace all of those factors or is it a case of trying to divorce yourself from them and get into the usual mantra of one shot at a time? 
MARC WARREN:   I think before I go out there, I will definitely be doing that, enjoying the kind of build up to it, but once I go over that first tee shot, I'll be fairly concentrated on that.   I've been in this situation before, so once the gun goes, I'll be ready to kind of do my job I suppose.

Q.   And the home fans can do you a big help; once the roars start, it can give you such momentum. 
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, exactly.   Winning's never easy.   It always seems to be kind of the most difficult thing, but you know, if you're going to go through a couple of tough holes, it's great to have the home fans behind you, and that can help you, just give that you one percent that you need to go over the finishing line. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT