ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 11, 2014
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Marc, we think 69 is a terrific score in those conditions.   How good do you feel it is?  
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, the same as you, I think.   Absolutely delighted with that.   
The Front 9 was offering a few more chances today, going with the wind, but then getting one‑under []on the Back 9, just trying to get as many shots under your sleeve as you can and try and try and hang on on the Back 9.  
You know, started the Back 9 well and then finished it really well, so absolutely delighted.  
   
 Q.   We've seen carnage on that back 9 this afternoon.   Was there any particular key to you shooting one‑under because no one got close to that other than maybe Miguel.   
MARC WARREN:   Yeah.   I mean I think the wind was entering off the left most of the time for us, and it was just trying to take bunkers that way.   Some of the rough at least you can advance it up the fairway and try and make par from there.   
But it was really just hitting the bunkers that way, just kind of waft in[] with the driver.   My swing thought was really just try and not hit it too hard, which is easy for me to do in those conditions.   So yeah, I'm really pleased.   
And then the two swings on 18 were the best of the day, I think.   
   
 Q.   Some players suffer with the weight of expectation when they play in front of a home crowd.   You seemed to be inspired about it.   
MARC WARREN:   Yeah.   I enjoy it.   I just enjoy big events, I suppose, and we seem to have a few of those in Scotland.   And being able to play and Scottish players obviously help out with extra home support, and I think that spurs me on.  
   
 Q.   Obviously you had a chance to win this a couple years ago, and I understand you are quoting Nelson Mandela as some way of overcoming that.   You gotta tell me about that.   
MARC WARREN:   Really?   That's news to me.   Must have been something I read on Twitter.   
Yeah, obviously what happened two years ago was tough to take at the time, but it was good experience, and I think in the future that will stand me in good stead.   
   
 Q.   Let's hope it does this weekend.   Well played.   
MARC WARREN:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   What a round today in those conditions, 69.   
MARC WARREN:   Yeah.   I'm really pleased.   I think the Front 9 played really well.   I knew there was a few kind of key holes coming in there that I had to play well, and you know, thankfully driver put me in good position.  
   
 Q.   In tournament golf you don't play a massive amount of links golf.   How hard is it to adapt because it is tough out there.   
MARC WARREN:   Yeah.   It's very different from what we play most weeks, but I'm fortunate I've played links courses at home, so when I'm at home I do tend to play a lot of links golf.  
So yeah, it's not a massive change for me, probably not as big as most of the guys here, but yeah, it's a big change from week to week.  
   
 Q.   Over the last couple of days you've literally played two different golf courses.   Would you agree?  
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, absolutely.   I mean holes like 15, for example, was 3‑iron gap wedge yesterday, and that was driver and a really good iron today.   So there's massive difference in where you're hitting it.   You really have to be on your toes with trying to hit bunkers that pull you off the tee, which is the key to this golf course.  
   
 Q.   And you've played well in this tournament but didn't quite get the job done.   Have you learned from that?  
MARC WARREN:   Yeah.   I think so.   Wentworth was, I was close to winning that last year, and that was pretty much a new one from the Scottish Open the year before.   So I felt as if I handled that really well.   
One of two things that made the difference coming down the stretch there which I felt I could have done better at Castle Stuart.   So yeah, that stood me in good stead, and hopefully it continues through this Open.  
   
 Q.   Marc, there's been plenty twists and turns so far in this tournament.   Do you feel there could be quite a few more to come over Saturday and Sunday?  
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, I mean there definitely will be.   It's that kind of golf course.   You know, it's‑‑ you stand on the first tee, you definitely better be ready for a battle, especially with that Back 9.   Today it was a little bit‑‑ you know, the Front 9 was into the wind yesterday and you felt after you get through that you got a chance of making a score on the Back 9, which mentally for a golfer is probably a little bit easier than the daunting prospect of that Back 9 just waiting on you.  
So yeah, it's definitely going to be a battle over the weekend if the wind stays this direction and this strong.  
   
 Q.   And it would be wonderful to see a Scot win the Scottish Open, would it not?  
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, I think so.   It would be a very romantic tale.   But yeah, it's a master event, and I'm sure anybody would love to win this tournament, and being Scottish would be that much more special.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT