ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 10, 2014
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARC WARREN:   Yeah, very pleased today.   Obviously it's a tough golf course and the best it is, but when the wind is as strong as it is today, and the course is really firm and fast.   I was really pleased today.   Anything under par would be good.  
   
 Q.   Did you relish getting back on the links?  
MARC WARREN:   Yeah.   It's the style of golf I really enjoy, the variety of shots, concentration needed, which I think probably helps me.   Some days I can go missing with that.   It's definitely one of the things I could get better at, but I think links golf it kind of does it for you.   So yeah, really pleased with the start.  
   
 Q.   Can go missing.   I guess we haven't seen you for a little while, so how are you playing?   Put it in context?  
MARC WARREN:   Yeah.   I've been playing better.   I would say probably two or three bad holes over the course of a tournament has probably stopped me finishing Top 10 or Top 5 or being in contention.   Had a few 20 to 30 finishes, but nothing spectacular yet.   Hopefully saving up for the next few weeks.  
   
 Q.   Do your thoughts ever drift back to the Scottish Open when you had the chance or do you put that away until people like me ask you the questions?  
MARC WARREN:   Yeah.   I mean obviously you can come back here and kind of fresh.   It would be nice to come back one day as defending champion here.   That would be one of the best things you could do as a Scottish player.  
   
 Q.   I'm sure the tournament is just so special, isn't it?   
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, exactly.   Every year it seems to grow and grow.   The field they got last week, Aberdeen Asset is just an incredible sponsor for us, and they continue to grow their event.   Obviously this is their kind of home, even more so than Aberdeen last week.   It's great over the next few years it's going to be moving about as well.   So see a bit more of the country.  
   
 Q.   Welcome back.   
MARC WARREN:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   First time that we've seen you for the week with a smile on your face.   
MARC WARREN:   Yeah.   Yeah, I mean the smile was never far from my face, but really pleased with the start today.   It's a tough golf course, tough conditions.   Anything under par I would be happy with.   Obviously getting it to 4‑under is really pleasing.  
I felt kind of strange in my game today, probably keeping mistakes off the card.   Started with a bogey at the first and didn't drop a shot after that, so I was really pleased with my round.  
   
 Q.   From a golfing standpoint maybe have not seen you as much as we would have liked to have seen you over the last few weeks or months.   Did you feel your game out there today was back where you wanted it to be?  
MARC WARREN:   Yeah.   I mean like I said, it's not been far away.   Ireland I would say is the best I've played in a long time.   I had two bad holes over the course of the week which I would say cost me from being right in contention there.  
France was pretty similar last week.   Two Top 30 finishes, which out here is not easy to do.   But I feel my game is definitely in good shape.   Today I kept mistakes off my card and felt as if I got a little bit more of what I deserved.  
   
 Q.   And now it looks as if we need one of the home boys to put young Mr.McIlroy in his place.   He seems to be the one to beat at the moment.   
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, I mean he's quite easy to keep up with these days as well (laughs).   Yeah, I mean obviously I can only do what I can do.   Any player can only do what they can do.   If he's going to go out there and shoot the lights out, you know, he can do that and run away from the field like he's done in majors before.   And his form is obviously very good.  
But you know, I'll be just doing my best every day.   If it's good enough, then great.   But if not, if he shoots better or someone else shoots better, then good luck to them.  
   
 Q.   Marc, it's seven years since your last European Tour win.   Is there any reason after a start like that, that that drought can't end at Royal Aberdeen this weekend?  
MARC WARREN:   There's no reason, no.   I feel for the last couple of years I've been in contention more often than I was when I won on the couple of occasions that started my career.   Yeah, there's absolutely no reason why not.   
Wentworth I got in the playoff there.   I feel if I done everything right, a playoff is one of those things that goes for you or against you, and unfortunately that one went against me.   But yeah, if I could pick a tournament, it would be this one, definitely.  
   
 Q.   Did you get a real sense that every part of your game is going to be coming together at just the right time?  
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, I think so.   If you get around a golf course in conditions like this as tough as this with only one dropped shot, I think your game is pretty good.   You gotta be good off the tee, test every aspect, good off the tee, good short game, and holing out for par when you need to, and I felt I did every part of that really well today.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT