ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 16, 2014
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What are your thoughts on 4‑under to start? 
MARC WARREN:   I think that the obvious thing that kind of sticks out to me is no bogeys today.   You know, first tournament round of the season, and a course tough as this, the rough as penal as it is; to drive it well and obviously my short game was in good shape, as well.   So really pleasing, any time you get around here, especially the first round of the year without a bogey, really pleased.
I went kind of through the middle of the round, hardly missed a green.   The back nine only missed one green, and a couple of times, middle of the fairway and just put it on the middle of the green, flags were tucked away and a little bit of course management, try to be as sensible as I can, which isn't normally one of my strongest traits. 
Front nine, scrambled well, first five or six holes and after that feel as if my long game took over a little bit and holed out pretty well towards the end. 

Q.   It is worth stressing just how difficult this course has become.   It's really matured well, hasn't it?
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, exactly.   It's as lush as I've ever seen it.   There's lot of grass on the greens.   Normally they are more brown and faster than they are.   I'm sure we'll see that at the weekend, but for the moment, the course is really lush, and that's making the rough really, really penal.   And I think that they have been maybe been a little bit cheeky and brushed the rough towards us a little bit, a couple of times I noticed that today.   Yeah, I think they are determined to test us to the limit.

Q.   I guess you didn't have a huge long break, but did you find any benefit of putting the clubs away for a little while?
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, I did.   I only played once since Race to Dubai last year.   I played Royal Trophy.   Pretty much had six out of seven weeks off I think and basically didn't touch a club till last week, obviously aside from the Royal Trophy. 
Yeah, it was nice to put the clubs away and enjoy time with the family, so it was nice to forget about golf for a while and just enjoy being home.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT