ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 27, 2013
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Carnoustie is supposed be to the tough one.   Pretty decent round?
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, exactly.   I played well here a couple years ago, and felt I played really well yesterday around St. Andrews, and 6‑under through 12 and kind of gave it away a little bit, only finished 2‑under for the round, which in those conditions, was absolutely perfect.   So I was a little bit frustrated the last nine. 
I knew it was the tough one of the three today and just went on kind of a mad run really, the front nine, had five birdies in a row, and just played a really solid back nine.   Birdied the par 5s coming in. 
Yeah, really pleased.   Anything under par here, you would take it.   To shoot 66 is really pleasing.

Q.   Good par save on the last? 
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, exactly.   You think that you've done the tough part there with the tee shot.   You hit it down the middle, and then kind of a lapse of concentration on the second shot and left myself in pretty much an impossible position.   Hit a great chip and ended up a wee bit farther away than I thought it was but it was nice to roll a putt in and it was nice to finish with a good, solid par save.

Q.   Nice to be in a good position.   And you have Carnoustie out of the way; off to Kingsbarns tomorrow. 
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, exactly.   I wouldn't mind if there was a bit more wind tomorrow, to be cruel on the guys (laughter).   I think Kingsbarns for me, historically I've never scored low around there, so I guess it's about time I try to put that right tomorrow. 

Q.   Been a great summer, great year really, so just carrying on that form.
MARC WARREN:   The last four tournaments I've played, I haven't really done that well, but I feel as if I've played well.   My wedge play has not been good, so I haven't been scoring.   The cuts I've missed, I've only missed by one or two and that's been frustrating. 
So the last week I've been working with Pete Cowen and the Callaway guys changed some wedges and yesterday and today, I don't know how many birdies I made, 12 or 13 or something.   So doing something right. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT