ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 9, 2013
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Is it a case of learning from what happened last year?
MARC WARREN:   I think so.   It was a great week overall, especially now looking back, but I take massive confidence from last year, the way I played, obviously apart from one or two holes could have turned out different.   It's just a huge event for us and something we are all looking forward to get back to the golf course on Thursday. 
This time of year, I'm in best position I've been in, Race to Dubai is huge for us, and in The Open next week, so the progress is good, and really enjoying the golf I'm playing. 

Q.   In France you were playing some superb golf. 
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, Sunday was probably the best I played all week, which was nice.   I felt as if I was 100 per cent last week and feel as if things were totally right with my game, but come Sunday, feel as if I put it together and played a really good round of golf on Sunday to finish 13th, 18th week before in Ireland.   So good form.

Q.   That was linksy last week and this is a true links, so is there a graduation or build‑up to playing this kind of style?
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, I think imagination probably comes into it a little bit more, the links style and seeing how the wind affects the ball a lot more here. 
Just use imagination a little bit more, something I really enjoy.   I enjoy hitting it right‑to‑left, left‑to‑right, high, low, and this golf course allows you a bit of room off the tee to be able to do that and try to set up some good angles into flags, which they can tuck away here with all of the undulations on the greens.

Q.   Is there pressure as a home star with all the expectation?   How do you treat that?
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, I think there's quite a bit more attention on you being Scottish playing this week, and it's something I enjoy, something I like forward to.   I've been playing some good golf and in contention a few times this year, and if it happens this week, great.   And if not, I'm still playing good golf and just enjoy being back in Scotland.   Feel as if I've done well in Scotland before, and it's a golf course I really enjoy, Castle Stuart.   So just looking forward to the four days. 

Q.   The Andy Murray factor; is that inspirational?
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, that's a huge feel‑good factor.   I think all the Scottish guys and British guys are riding the wave with him I suppose, and the timing of this event is great, as well, straight after that.   And just the coverage of tennis and sport in general in Britain I think is great the last 12 months, probably since the Olympics, continued that good feeling, obviously Justin Rose winning the U.S. Open as well, it's been a great summer so far. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT