BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2013
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Some excellent numbers on the scorecard, any particular aspect of the game responsible? 
MARC WARREN:   Reasonably solid.   Nothing stood out.   Yesterday I holed more putts, struggled a bit with the pace of the greens today with a bit of moisture on them; struggled to get the ball to the hole a lot.
Course management was the best aspect, really patient off the tee, which playing over the years has been the key to the golf course.

Q.   Are you naturally a patient person?
MARC WARREN:   Normally complete opposite for me.   18 I hit 4‑iron off today, just so there's any chance of going for it, I can't take it totally out of play, because I think anything around about 230, I would struggle to not go for it.   But try to play patient and leave myself a wedge, and I did look at birdie. 

Q.   By the time you teed off, it was obviously going to be a brutal, difficult day.   What was the mind‑set going out? 
MARC WARREN:   Probably keep it low off the tee a lot, a lot of 3‑wood and 2‑irons, even though it leaves yourself a lot of longer shots into the greens.   I feel like my short game is really good just now so I can get it up‑and‑down, and did that really well and saved par when I had to and general really took the chances I did have. 

Q.   Good feeling going into this weekend? 
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, feeling really good.   The whole game is there, so, yeah, looking forward to another weekend.   Going to be tough for the boys this afternoon so should be in a good position. 
A day for patience, solid golf.   I think these conditions on this golf course, every aspect of the game is going to be tested. 

Q.   What were your thoughts when you came off‑‑
MARC WARREN:   I knew there was going to be more than one bogey at that hole today so didn't really bother me too much.   Still a long way to go.   Fortunately hit a good shot on the second and made birdie there and got a shot back straightaway, so wasn't too big of a deal.

Q.   You've cracked up there unnoticed, so many times that we haven't been focusing on you; seems to me you've just pitched up near the top of the leaderboard and now we are starting to take notice.
MARC WARREN:   That's your fault, not mine (laughter).   If you'd focused on me from the start‑‑

Q.   You've been telling me that now for a few years.   Going into the weekend, one eye on the weather, is it just a case of trying to pick up the birdies when you can?
MARC WARREN:   Yeah, exactly, if the conditions are the same as the first two days, it's definitely going to be the same strategy.   A lot of patience and what you said, try and take advantage when you can, the par 5s, even if you play as a three‑shotter like I do on 18, especially in these conditions and off the forward tee, try to get yourself set up with a good birdie chance and a good round around here, you're definitely going to be in decent position. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT