ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 2, 2011
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Great effort. Pleased with the way you played 17 holes? 
 MARC WARREN: Exactly. I'm pleased with the way I played 18 to be honest. I hit a good drive on 18, a good second shot. I was playing for past the flag obviously there, trying to get 20 feet past and give myself a chance for birdie. Pádraig thought he hit it too hard, and Tommy, he had the same angle to the back of the green. One of those things, thought I hit a good first putt and thought I hit a good second putt. That was the only bogey, so can't ask for much more than that. 

 Q. Were you of two minds whether to go high or go low?
 MARC WARREN: I think that was the danger off the tee. I ended up going with driver but my first start, that's what I had done the first day was I hit 3-wood. I should have done the same. Didn't think driver would get as far as it did to be honest. 
 I was only going 8-iron, chip-and-run and I thought, if I could drill a 9-iron -- as I said, just play for past the flag. I mean, I didn't hit a great shot on 17. Ended up perfect angle and hit a great 6-iron in there. 
 The drive, looking at it, I thought I might struggle with the carry off the back tee, but the line was actually not too bad. The line was further right than I wanted. I had a perfect line at the flag and hit a good 6-iron in there. 

 Q. Did you feel pressure today?
 MARC WARREN: I did, when Pádraig asked me on the 16th tee what my situation was. (Laughter).
 Yeah, obviously it was in the back of my mind, the front of my mind, but I felt really calm, really good about my golf. Especially I had quite a few chances, as well, and hit it really close, say three feet on 10 and missed that and hit it over the back on 11 dead, great up-and-down there. Three birdies in a row which kind of got me back into it. That putt on 17 was huge. Birdie three of the last, never know what happens. 

 Q. How far will this move you up? 
 MARC WARREN: Michael just showed me, might take me -- I think it will take about 200,000 anyway, and next week, just try and improve on it next week. Obviously you never know what it's going to be the end of the year. But next week will secure my play for next year. 

 Q. You haven't set any target? 
 MARC WARREN: I think if I had parred the last, then definitely. 
 Toward the end of last year, as well, I was real consistent with good finishes. To be fair, my timing couldn't be better. 

 Q. A tournament like this, with the size of the prize money, otherwise you'll have to play week-after-week sort of thing?
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, a second place finish, top four, top five, probably finish fifth or something; but I would have taken that at the start of the week to be perfectly honest. 
 Obviously it's the one really good week I've been meeting, just to get me that little bit closer. Last week was good, it was a decent finish. Gleneagles, obviously finished 11th there and that got me at least over the 100,000 Euro mark. This is obviously the biggest cheque I've picked up. So it's nice to see myself moving up the Order of Merit a wee bit. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT