ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 1, 2011
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tougher conditions, another good day at the office?
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, I mean, I love the golf course, I love the place but scoring-wise for me it's never my favourite place for some reason, I just don't -- a lot of guys can shoot low scores and say it's the course to go low on but for me, I just don't see it that way. 2-under, pretty pleased with that considering I didn't birdie any par 5s or the drivable par 3s. Pretty solid day. 
 I parred the first seven holes and I was on the par 5 in two. I 3-putted, and then I knocked it on, that was probably about a yard from being on the green. Just caught in the heavy rough on 6, drivable par 4. Didn't get up-and-down there, and so nothing was really happening. Just hit a good shot on 8, 30 feet, rolled that one straight in the middle. 
 Then hit to five feet for birdie on 9 and didn't make that. 13, I hit a lovely 9-iron in there just straight in the middle about 15 feet and holed that. Really that was it today. I had two lovely shots on 17, and then for some reason, raced my first putt by ten feet and just missed from 12 feet on the last. To come away with 2-under is not too bad. 

 Q. Two bogeys over the three rounds, is that what you had so far I think. 
 MARC WARREN: I think I had one yesterday at St. Andrews and one today. I just don't really see the low scores around here. Once I was out there, the par 5s and things like that, I knew the front nine was the scoring nine and on the 10th tee only 1-under, I thought if I could improve on that it wouldn't be bad day. 
 We got stopped on 10, and actually got a flyer on my second shot on 10 and made a good up-and-down just before the delay over the back of the green, which is dead really over there. 
 So coming off, I thought if I can improve on that with the holes I have left, I'll be pretty chuffed and managed to do that by one. But sets up for a decent day tomorrow. 

 Q. 67 yesterday. 
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, it's a course I love, St. Andrews, so hopefully it loves me back a little bit tomorrow.

 Q. And you got an invite for Madrid next week. Your chat with Gonzalo obviously worked. 
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, he sent me a lovely e-mail telling me about my flights to Madrid. Just little things like that, and playing well, that's helping, but it was kind of him to give me that invite and hopefully go in on a high. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT