JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 27, 2011
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. First two holes couldn't have been better for you?  
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, exactly, both tee shots, actually, and could recovery at the first, holed that and wedge to 15 feet on 3 and holed that, ideal start really.  
  
  Q. Watching you on 18, you had a real hunger in your stride?  
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, I was kind of disappointed. I hit a great drive up there, and it was a perfect number for a 3-wood. Just didn't quite catch it how I wanted to. Had a lovely chip.   
 Obviously didn't take advantage of that. But overall, you know, 70, it was a tricky day today. Greens were a little bit softer towards the end there and I'm pleased to be around in under par.  
  
  Q. Spoke yesterday about perhaps the added pressure on to you try to get your Tour place back, have you managed to just put that to the back of your mind?  
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, I mean, well, ball-striking today was the key, 18 greens today was the first time I've done that in my life I think. To do it in the situation I'm in or whatever, contending for a tournament, is more than pleasing. And as long as that keeps up tomorrow, hopefully hole a few more putts.   
  
  Q. Everything in regulation, was it?  
 MARC WARREN: Aye. Yeah, 18 greens and two 3-putts, and two short ones, one on 18 and another one on 14. The greens are a little bit soft and bumpy, so I'm sure everybody was missing putts like that.   
  
  Q. When is the last time your confidence was this high going into a final round?   
 MARC WARREN: I don't know to be honest. I'm kind of picking my targets and picking shots and deciding where I want them to go. Early on I wasn't driving it the way I wanted, but back nine I didn't miss a fairway. Also, that was kind of really pleasing, coming down 15, 16 and 18, two birdie chances and one you'd be happy with 4 on 15, to stand up, hit a good drive down there and two good ones on the last two to give myself a chance of reaching the green in regulation.   
 Kind of disappointing to be 1-under for the last three. Probably should be two.  
  
  Q. Where did you stand the year you won and got into the last round?  
 MARC WARREN: I think I was a couple back, as well. But whatever happens, just happy with the day. Going to have a few short pints I think.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you're just one very good tournament away from getting it all back together?  
 MARC WARREN: I was fortunate with the invites I got at the start of the year, and I kind of took advantage of those and a couple of Top-20s which probably should have been a lot better, kind of two pretty mediocre weekends for those, as well. Hopefully Gleneagles has been a place that's been kind to me and it will be kind again.  
  
  Q. Forecast for high winds tomorrow, is that a good thing or bad thing?  
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, as I said, the way I'm striking the ball, I don't mind either way. I feel as if I can make birdies and go at most pins, which 17, hit 6-iron there, actually went a bit -- a cut too much. And even a pin tucked away like, that I went straight for it. That's the confidence I've got in my iron play at the minute.   
 Either way I feel as if I can control my ball well. You know, it's been unfortunate probably this week, we have not had a lot of wind, and the golf course is good when it's windy, so look forward to that as well.   
  
  Q. Why do you think it comments so good, does it click being back at Gleneagles?   
 MARC WARREN: That, as well. This course, can just stand on every tee and see what the tee shot requires, and into the greens, as well. It's not every golf course that you go to that you have that luxury. I'm just really comfortable here, and I said the last couple of weeks, I played really well last week and I felt as if I was really close to being in contention. Czech Republic, just didn't hole putts outside of five, six feet, to be in contention, but obviously this week a bit closer and hopefully a good day tomorrow.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT