THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 7, 2011
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Thoughts on the day?
 MARC WARREN: I've never --

 Q. Seven birdies --
 MARC WARREN: It's been a while. I've probably had three or four but seven was pretty pleasing after that start. 

 Q. I heard you saying that you were not aware that you had done seven --
 MARC WARREN: I honestly thought it was four or five. I thought I had a par in there somewhere. But I wasn't aware, I was looking at the scoreboard on 18 and it was 7 in a row. Obviously ball-striking was really good at that time and to miss from six feet before that -- could have been better. 
 But really pleased after the start to be 5-under par, the goal after that start was to get back under par or get it 2-under par, so really pleased. 

 Q. What happened at the first? 
 MARC WARREN: I had a 3-wood down the right side, wind was strong off the left and pushed it a little bit. Getting down there, no one's seen it so obviously it was in the hazard, and it took a really poor drop, kind of bounced and went just in the hole basically. 
 It was in the hazard, to took a drop at the side and just came out, next shot came out tight over the back of the green into the bush, back off the front of the green, I felt as if I was on that hole for an hour and a half, and then parred the second. Thought if I could get one back at the second straightaway, and I hit two good shots in there, and unfortunately I made par. But after that, it was really kind of -- can't really think of too many shots I didn't hit where I wanted. 

 Q. When you go from two weeks ago missing the cut on a Challenge Tour event, what's changed in two weeks and how much have you needed this today? 
 MARC WARREN: I think I was playing well -- believe it or not, some of the scores have been poor but I do feel as if I'm striking the ball well. Just takes one or two things to click together. 
 That's what I'm trying to tell myself most of the time and a big week, I feel as if I've prepared really well, worked hard on the range and probably hit a back shot in practise and came out and made 7 in the first and that's the way things have been going really but it was nice to have an answer to that today which I really haven't had in the past. Just something to build on and a bit of momentum going into the next few days.

 Q. You and your old teammate, Monty, are neck and neck there and also fighting for the same sort of prize for next week. 
 MARC WARREN: Well, exactly, all those things, obviously a massive tournament, so every day, you get close to winning a big tournament, opens so many doors. Obviously only first round so that's a long way away yet. Just like I said, just keep that mental I think going and do all I can do. 

 Q. Were you aware of The European Tour record --
 MARC WARREN: I had a 10-footer, and a 6-footer to start the round, but take seven again tomorrow to be honest. If only golf was that easy but obviously pleased to come close. 
 You dream a little bit before every event and you have to allow yourself to dream of what can happen, it starts on level par, so that is possible, but as I say, that's a long, long way away, so you know, just go ahead, just relax tonight and give myself a little pat on the back probably, a good round of golf after that start. 

 Q. Who you working with on your preparations?
 MARC WARREN: Pete Cowen and Mike Walker, just getting better and better all the time to be honest. That's what's been so frustrating, I feel on the range it's been getting better, but haven't been able to take it on to the course yet. And after I started today, I was more frustrated that I probably didn't trust it as much as I should have on the first tee shot. After, that I made a really good job of that, really didn't miss too many shots. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT