BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2009
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A little disappointed finishing with a 6 but how do you feel about your day overall?   
 MARC WARREN: It was a frustrating day today. I felt that's probably the best I've hit it all week, tee-to-green, anyway. Finished with bogey on the last and when most people are probably making fours, that's a pretty frustrating day.  
  
  Q. You had a horrific run into form going into last week, what's changed?   
 MARC WARREN: Nothing really. Just kind of keep doing the same things. Feel as if I've been doing everything right and not obviously getting the results, so it's nice to get a result last week. I done well and made the cut the week before, so probably took a little bit of confidence from that, and to last week and this week.  
  
  Q. How hard has that been, because we know what a quality player you are.   
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, it's been difficult but as I say I've been doing all the right things and working hard, and it has been very frustrating. Obviously it was to have a good week last week in a big tournament. I've been looking forward to these events all year and it was nice to finally play well.   
  
  Q. You have a decent record here, you've figured out a way to play, because a lot of people can't find a way.   
 MARC WARREN: I think a lot of it is obviously off the tee. You have to keep it in play off the tee around here. You can't just stand around and bang drivers, you use a lot of different clubs and the greens are really tricky. It helps if you can read the greens really well and I've done well.   
  
  Q. And chasing Paul Casey tomorrow?  
 MARC WARREN: Looks like he's going to 14-under par after 17, but you never know, it's a tough course. It's not all done for him yet.   
  
  Q. You stayed patient out there.   
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, I stayed very patient. Obviously started off, had the bogey on 9, that was very frustrating but as I said, I feel that's probably the best I've hit it, just didn't get the putts in and maybe distances weren't quite right and the course has firmed up a lot today and maybe just was not quite judging that.   
 I knew there was more chances to come on the back nine and just kept telling myself that I was handling it well, and I gave myself chances and just a matter of taking them. And I've done that the back nine.  
 Obviously it would be nice to finish with three in a row which is what I was looking at on the 18th tee. But I had an absolutely horrific lie. I think it's the only bunker on the course that actually has a decent amount of sand in it, ball was probably three deep in the stand and all I could do was hack it out.   
  
  Q. Is it difficult not to get anxious when you see other people charging and it's just not quite coming for you?  
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, but there's different names on the board, obviously people are making a move, and you have to realize, there's holes to come. We obviously start the day ahead of those guys, those guys kind of cap up, just purely because we have played more holes. You have to stay patient and realize you have those holes ahead of you.  
 12, I hit driver, 7-iron, I was in the bunker, came out of the bunker to about four feet.   
 On 16, 3-iron, and I was just in the semi rough and jumped around to 30 feet and holed that.   
 Then I hit driver, 3-iron just short, 40 yards short of the hole on 17, pitched down about five feet and holed that.   
  
  Q. You're looking second place, it's realistic now.   
 MARC WARREN: Obviously I don't know what second is, 9-under, 10-under. That's obviously well within reach tomorrow. But I mean, you never know on this golf course; Ross Fisher started with 7 yesterday.   
 So obviously Casey is playing well. You just never know on this golf course. You can have two bad shots and end up in a whole lot of trouble. So not wishing bad on anyone, but obviously my main goal tomorrow is to go and just try and get a good start like I did yesterday and you never know.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT