BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2009
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARC WARREN: Yeah, it was very good today, considering I wasn't swinging it as good as I can. I was struggling, especially the first kind of 12, 13 holes there. Just try and keep the ball in play most of the time and try to manage my game well and I managed to do that. Short game saved me a few times.   
  
  Q. Difficult condition with the swirling wind?  
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, it's always going to be a difficult course. There's always wind, and it's so tree-lined here, the wind does swirl a little bit. To not play my best and to shoot a round of 66 around here is very pleasing.  
  
  Q. What difference does it make playing as a twoball when you have threeballs either side of you?  
 MARC WARREN: Just have to take your time in between shots and try and go through your normal routine over shots and try not to take too much time. Towards the end, we took a lot of time the last few holes. Yeah, it was difficult, but I think both of us done pretty well.  
  
  Q. Is it disruptive?   
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, I think you've got to be able to switch on and off really, you've got to be able to have a laugh and a joke when you're standing about, and you have to really focus, especially this course, one bad shot, it can come up and bite you.   
  
  Q. Superb stuff, three weeks in a row, not only making the cut but in contention.   
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, I think it's the first time I've ever made three cuts in a row.   
  
  Q. You did it last year.   
 MARC WARREN: The German tournament was not a cut. This is the first time I've ever actually made three cuts in a row. Just testing the hard work I've been doing, obviously technical on my golf swing, but in my mind, knowing I'm not hitting it that great Tuesday and Wednesday, but really looking forward to getting myself up to the challenge on a golf course like this.   
 I know because I've done so much work over there and I know what my faults are and so I know what shots to stay away from; whereas before I would stand up and try and hit them. Now I feel I can manage my game a little bit better and get around with a score like I did today.   
  
  Q. Can you tell us how you birdied the last two?   
 MARC WARREN: The last 17, I had a really good drive. I was going to be 3-iron, missed the green right, had a pretty good chip to eight feet and holed that. On last, I hit 3-wood and then 5-wood.  
  
  Q. Did you swing better towards the end?   
 MARC WARREN: Definitely on the tough shots when I had to really focus, there was only like one option and I hit some really good shots, like tee shot on 17. It was good mind-set on the shots today to stand up and just make a free swing at it.   
 It's just really good, and fun, Tuesday and Wednesday, I wasn't swinging it that great. Ian was down and we were working on it, and I couldn't get it right ask couldn't get a feeling for it. My mind-set Thursday morning, I was really looking forward to the challenge of shooting a good score, almost playing badly, and really that's what I've done.   
  
  Q. Do you feel this has been coming for a while?  
 MARC WARREN: Definitely, really start of the year. You know, I was looking forward to the tournaments from Abu Dhabi onwards. I feel like I played well straightaway, because I worked so hard in the winter on my game, and I had to be very patient but hopefully I'm reaping the rewards now.   
  
  Q. On that first wee run, did you feel that what you had done was right?   
 MARC WARREN: No, not really, it was just frustration that it wasn't happening. Especially I had a few weeks there, I remember Malaysia and Australia where I played really well, missed both cuts, and obviously it was a long way to go, as well. I felt like I was doing everything right and getting absolutely nothing for it.   
 Obviously last week changed that, but I've done really well on Friday of Italy to make the cut, and it carried on last week and as I said, carrying on this week. It does feel pretty good when you get things like this, and it's just a matter of getting out of your own way and go with it I guess.   
 Last week was the first time I had ever been in the last few groups for a while, so that was good. It's great to be able to do it again this week. It's something I've always maybe slightly envied people that do it week-after-week after week. Obviously hope to carry on over the weekend.   
  
  Q. Is this your lowest score here?  
 MARC WARREN: I think it is.   
  
  Q. How long did you have to wait for that putt on 17?   
 MARC WARREN: 17, it was eight minutes for the referee to get there, plus there was two groups on the tee, as well. Yeah, as I said, kind of switch it on and off.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT