THE 3 IRISH OPEN
May 14, 2009
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Well played today, Marc. How was it out there? 
 MARC WARREN: Probably wasn't as tough as I thought it was going to be. Prepared for it to be tougher. I think the heavy rained help us, greens were a bit softer and more receptive today. You could play a lot more aggressive. Overall, it wasn't as tough as we thought but still not easy. 

 Q. Are you the same?
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Are you the same as Paul in terms of the love of the links courses and stuff like that? 
 MARC WARREN: I've heard nothing but great things about this course. And I've not been disappointed one bit. It's a fantastic links course, and really feeling that the greenskeepers have set the course up fantastic this week. 
 Obviously expecting pretty rough weather the next few days and the course is going to be very playable and which is a great thing. It's not 20-yard wide fairways, it's fair off the tee and the rough is just thick enough. The setup is fantastic, which allows you to play good golf and hopefully the spectators will see some good golf, as well. 

 Q. Paul was just saying that he prefers links golf; are you the same way?
 MARC WARREN: I think I would be. I think it's more fun playing links golf. Imagination comes in a bit more, and it's not just 180 yards and it's a 7-iron. 
 You know, it could be different five holes in a row and you get the same yardage. I think from that point of view, it's much more fun and you have to use your imagination and play a lot of different shots, so I prefer links golf, a lot more fun. 

 Q. What is your background in links golf? 
 MARC WARREN: Well, obviously top amateur ranks in links golf, so I think probably for five or six years, links golf week-in and week-out, so got to know it quite well. Obviously that helped today. 

 Q. Have you played here before?
 MARC WARREN: No, never. Never seen the course. 

 Q. Since your World Cup win, your sort of form has been a little inconsistent. Do you think coming out now you are ready to start playing to that high level again?
 MARC WARREN: Well, I think it was inconsistent before that. I've been working hard over the winter, and I've done a lot of changes. And I switched coaches last year, and going out today, makes all the effort worthwhile. It was fun to stand up in those conditions and hit shots, especially the last probably seven or eight holes and just see it go exactly where I want it to go. Hopefully can kick on like this a bit more often.

 Q. You've been basing yourself in Florida a few months over the winter, do you feel it's been paying dividend now in terms of ball-striking? 
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, ball-striking, I've done a lot of work to do as I said to get it where I want it to be consistent week-in and week-out, and I've been working on my short game as well, it really helped me last week. 
 I think it's just been a chance to prepare better for the season rather than being stuck in Scotland and hitting balls off the mat and not being able to practice your short game; I definitely think it's helped. 

 Q. Can you tell us about your final round in Italy and what is your ideal pace of play? 
 MARC WARREN: About that. (Laughing).
 Yeah, we were first out, and there was a flight at 12.20 we could catch and the next one was at 6.20. 
 So I thought, I'd rather be home for Sunday dinner than eat dinner at the airport so we stepped on the gas a little bit and made an effort. It was great. It was good fun, especially when you're out that time on a Sunday, normally can be a bit of a drag but it was good fun. 
 We spent the same amount of time as we normally would, basically played ready golf, whoever was ready would hit first. It was good fun. I definitely think there should be some tournaments like that, with a maximum time on it instead of a minimum.

 Q. How long was it?
 MARC WARREN: Two hours and 19 minutes. The scorers was actually working on it, we were waiting on them! 

 Q. What would you do, in all seriousness, to speed up the game? Would you have maybe players clocking on as they arrive at the green? 
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, I think ready golf would be good. I don't think it harms anybody. Maybe some people wouldn't like it. But I definitely think there's stuff we can do. I don't know how long it took, but it moved on well and there are definitely some guys out who take a ridiculous amount of time. And as soon as a referee shows up, they are just running away. I think we could keep a better eye on it and put some more pressure on the guys we know are slow. It's tough to prove it when the referee shows up and they start running. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Marc, well played, thanks very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT