ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 3, 2008
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Good round today in tricky conditions?
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, going out, seeing the forecast, I knew it was going to be cold today. Obviously playing a very tough golf course, even in normal conditions, and today it was tough. Got off to a really good start and a matter of flying it in there the rest of the day.

 Q. This is a tournament you enjoy playing obviously, you say you missed the cuts a few times but it's obviously going better this week for you? 
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, I've missed the cut twice before, and obviously looking to do a little better this time. My game has been getting better the last six weeks or so and getting comfortable with the changes I'm making.

 Q. Today the course is tricky but the other course is looking like the wind is playing havoc over there, you put yourself in a good position going into the weekend. 
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, definitely, probably the two toughest courses to score on over the first two days. Kingsbarns tomorrow, the forecast doesn't look too good, but Kingsbarns obviously the scores have been made, especially yesterday, so hopefully I can get some birdies tomorrow. 

 Q. Obviously special for a Scot to be playing around here, what would it mean to you to have a good finish this weekend? 
 MARC WARREN: Well, it would help my position on the Order of Merit and money-wise this is a big event. Not doing too well on the Order of Merit but playing as well as I am, really you're looking to win, so that's obviously the goal for the weekend. 
 But if not, it's just a matter of, as you said, a good finish and it will be great coming down the last few holes on the Old Course Sunday afternoon, having a chance to win that, that would be pretty special 

 Q. Could you quickly run through the birdies? 
 MARC WARREN: Driver, lob-wedge to about eight feet. 
 Driver,80 yards, pitched it to about two feet. 
 Bogey on 7. I had a good 6-iron but in the bunker.
 Good driver, short of the green chipped up with an 8-iron to six feet and missed it. 
 12, I had driver, 8-iron to about probably just on the fringe, 25 feet right of the hole. 
 17, poor tee shot, 7-iron, cut it right and not a great chip, missed from about probably seven feet. 
 15, I had a poor 3-wood off the tee into the bunker right, came out safely and 2-putted about 25 feet, 20 feet.

 Q. Quite tricky on that little stretch?
 MARC WARREN: I hit some good shots but didn't feel as if I had any birdie chances, drove the ball well. Obviously getting a birdie on 12 was good and that got some momentum again and just a poor 7-iron on the next, and a poor drive on 14 in the bunker. 
 After kind of 15 holes in position, I was delighted really to finish with three pars on three of the toughest holes in golf probably. 
 You said last week, you played well the first two rounds but not so on the weekend, knowing that you're in a strong position, is it a case of building on what you've done the last two days?
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, exactly, last week kind of reverted to the way my swing had been. Basically trying to take things up over the weekend, wasn't driving it was well. But today in tough conditions again, striking the ball great off the tee, hit some great iron shots. The wind today was across the golf course and you're always trying to draw it against the wind.
 So ball-striking and shot-making was good again today and I'm pleased with that, and confidence obviously is high, and it's just a matter of keep doing it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT