QUINN INSURANCE BRITISH MASTERS
September 25, 2008
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tell us, how good was that?
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, very good. Only five birdies today, which is excellent, and only one dropped shot. 
 Yeah, very pleased. Very solid. 

 Q. Especially since the turn?
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, exactly, the front nine is probably tough for me out here, actually, and I knew that I had to play some good golf to get my score going and obviously did that on the back nine. 

 Q. In the afternoon, the scores deteriorate just a little, and these seem near perfect. 
 MARC WARREN: The greens are awesome. I can't believe the weather and how firm they are and the course overall as well. The greens are excellent, they are running fast and pure. I was out late this afternoon but they held up really well. 

 Q. You are one of the younger guys so you won't have played here that many times before, but do you notice the improvements? 
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, the greens are very different this year, and obviously I remember watching TV years ago and it seemed really flat and not a lot to look at and they have obviously spent a lot of money developing the course and they have done a great job.

 Q. That must be something to know a course so well from watching it on TV, as well as we all have with Ryder Cups and then get to play it and get to experience it?
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, exactly. It's pretty strange coming up to a place the first time and feeling like you've been here loads of times. Last night I was playing my computer game, my Tiger Woods game and I was playing the course in China the HSBC and I was thinking, Alastair Forsyth is going there for the first year and he can research it.

 Q. Are you looking forward to Shanghai? 
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, I've been there three times I think. I've been there every year. It would be nice to be back there. Obviously that's one of my goals towards the end of the year, to get back to the HSBC. 

 Q. That is a serious goal, one that you put up there as well as Volvo Masters, higher up Order of Merit, World Rankings, everything? 
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, it comes down to got to win category. Obviously got to play really well, get in the Top-50 in the world to get in that one. It was one of my goals at the beginning of the year and I haven't achieved it yet but at some point I think.

 Q. The game, just a matter of consistency over four days? 
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, I've made a lot of changes in my swing but trying not to get too mechanical about them on the golf course. Just trying to get used to playing different shots and that's what I've done really well today, control the ball really well and have a lot of fades and draws off the tees and hit a lot of fairways and a lot of greens, but really controlling the ball flight and the spin was excellent today. 

 Q. Is that something you look at this time of year, starting to play well? 
 MARC WARREN: Obviously the changes I've made have been great and I'm feeling good and so it's just a matter of getting out and doing it, so this week or next week would be great.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT