NCAA WOMEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: LOUISVILLE
March 19, 2016
Doug Bruno
Jessica January
Chanise Jenkins
Megan Podkowa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, the DePaul Blue Demons are now in the interview room, and we will start with the press conference.  Opening statement, Coach?   
DOUG BRUNO: This is the time of year you just want to have your players playing their best basketball and just enjoy the moment, seize the moment, have fun.  So I'm excited for our players.  They did a job in game 1 and we're looking forward to playing a very talented and great Louisville team tomorrow here at the Yum!  Center, their home court.   
It's also great to be playing at a place that embraces women's basketball, Louisville.  Louisville has done a great job of growing their game of basketball here.  Louisville and DePaul have a history, 18 years, ten in the Conference USA and 8 in the Big East and it's been fun to watch the program go from the little gym that sat about 1500 people to their ability to draw 10, 15,000 people.   
So we're really excited about the opportunity always to play in the NCAA Tournament, but in such a great environment.  We know it's going to be hostile, but so what?  It's going to be fun.   
 Q.  If each of y'all can answer what you've seen on film and in person yesterday about Louisville that you will be watching for tomorrow?  
CHANISE JENKINS: Louisville is a good team.  They have a monster rebounder in Hines-Allen and they have good guard play.  So we're focused on owning your own match-ups and executing our game plan.   
MEGAN PODKOWA: Like Chanise said, they're a really good program.  So we need to own our own match-up and rebound the ball.  They're really good at that and transition is going to be huge.   
JESSICA JANUARY: Like they said, they're a talented team in their guards and post players.  So we're to have to keep doing the little things like rebounding, defending, and executing on offense.   
 Q.  What is it about Hines-Allen that is going to pose the biggest threat for you guys?  
CHANISE JENKINS: I think Hines-Allen, she does a lot.  So she is a big girl that rebounds and she can lead the break as well as she has a little bit of guard play.  So she is a versatile player that we're going to be looking out for.   
MEGAN PODKOWA: She is a strong physical player and the fact that she has those guard skills.  They can push the ball in transition.  She runs the floor well.  She is a really good all-around player.   
JESSICA JANUARY: She is a really good player and we're going to have to own our match-up propose.   
DOUG BRUNO: And it's not my time to talk, but we're just going to be looking out for her.   
 Q.  You told me yesterday you had been focusing the past week on rebounding.  Is there anything specifically you're going to focus on tomorrow given that you had one day of preparation to find out who you are going to play tomorrow?  
CHANISE JENKINS: Well, just the little things we've been discussing all week and that is rebounding, executing on offense, defending and we'll also look to control the tempo so we will be focusing on that.   
MEGAN PODKOWA: Like Chanise said, focusing on the theas little things, communicating is going to be huge, just being there playing all together.   
JESSICA JANUARY: Like they said, really just focussing on those things and all the things that we've been doing all year and just try to do it the best of our ability tomorrow.   
 Q.  For the seniors, what do you remember from being here at Louisville early on in your careers and that match-up and being back here in this environment?  Do any of the memories come back?  
CHANISE JENKINS: Playing here my freshman year it was a tough environment, very competitive game.  So I remember the game before that they played in our gym, so we know we can do it, we know what to learn from.  We can't let the big lights and the big stage scare us, so we're embracing this opportunity right now.   
MEGAN PODKOWA: I remember the environment was tough to play in, but it was awesome to have so many fans at the game.  It was a competitive game, high-energy.  So I know it will be the same tomorrow.   
THE MODERATOR: Thanks, ladies.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT