U.S. AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 29, 2019
Troy Vannucci
Vince Kwon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Troy, they jumped on you early and had a good lead there at the turn.  
TROY VANNUCCI: Yeah, I mean, they were -- they were playing great golf.  I mean, we would have had to make birdie to win a hole.  You're not going to win pars against these guys.  They're solid.   
It started to get a little breezy.  We thought that kind of played to our advantage, trying to get a few back, hit a good, solid shot in there.  Every time we had a good look, we missed it.  But those guys played solid.  And -- yeah.   
 Q.  Vince, great week.  
VINCE KWON: Yep.   
 Q.  What will you take from this experience?  
VINCE KWON: Just take it as another experience, I guess.  Just a good experience.  I mean, I'm not upset because we got -- I mean, it can't get any better than this.   
I mean, we played pretty well.  Just bummed out that we couldn't get it done.   
 Q.  What will it do for your confidence when you go back?  
VINCE KWON: Well, I learned a lot about my game while we stayed here, I guess.  A lot of different shots that we had to hit and -- yeah, that's about it.   
 Q.  Nice to get a medal, though, isn't it?  
VINCE KWON: Yeah.   
 Q.  You got a couple?  
VINCE KWON: A couple of hardwares, that's pretty nice.  They played great.  Couldn't get it done, so yeah.   
 Q.  What will you take from this experience, Troy?  
TROY VANNUCCI: It's just a great experience.  I'll remember it for a long time.  It was fun battling against all the top golfers in the nation, really.  I mean, you just look at some of the resumés we played in the last two matches.  I mean, those guys' resumés stack up against anyone.  I mean, and we're playing against them side by side.   
You can't -- I mean, it's kind of bittersweet.  They leave home early.  But to get this far, it's great.  I mean, it was fun.  I enjoyed it.   
 Q.  In terms of your golf game, is there one thing you think you would want to work on for the next time that you play in one of these?  
TROY VANNUCCI: A course like this is kind of different because we don't really get this kind of conditions.  So it was really weird adjusting.  It was, like, real linksy, had to play a lot of bump and runs.  Just a lot of different shots that you don't play at home.   
But yeah, you definitely, you got to learn all the shots.  I mean, no, it's a fun place.  You just got to hit all different kind of shots.   
 Q.  What about being kind of at home next year at the Cricket Club?  
TROY VANNUCCI: Oh, that's going to be great.  Got the home crowd behind you.  I had a bunch of support from Golf Association of Philadelphia, New Jersey State Golf Association, family, the membership at Little Mill Country Club, Huntington Valley Country Club.  We had everyone texting us, rooting us on.  A bunch of great guys and family, that should be fun.  Can't wait to play.   
 Q.  Thank you, guys.  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT