U.S. AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2019
Troy Vannucci
Vince Kwon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Okay.  First of all, Vince, I mean, you're in the semifinals of four-ball in your first USGA event.  What does that mean to you?  
VINCE KWON: It means a ton.  I mean, we've been thinking about it, me and my partner, Troy, since we've qualified.  And we just try to grind it out every single day.  So that's pretty much what we were thinking.   
 Q.  Emotionally?  
VINCE KWON: Emotionally, ecstatic.  Didn't know we were going to get this far, I guess.  But our confidence is way up there, and hopefully we could get the job done.   
 Q.  But when you're like a self-taught golfer like yourself, I mean, it's got to be a little more special to you that you're --  
VINCE KWON: Yeah, just self-taught.   
 Q.  -- that you're doing this kind of thing right now.  
VINCE KWON: It's pretty special, I guess.   
TROY VANNUCCI: All the hard work.  All that.   
VINCE KWON: All the hard work.   
TROY VANNUCCI: A lot of hours, people no one sees just out in back of the range, sun going down, hitting balls.  Last one on the chipping green, having putting competitions.  Having putting competitions with the members, just the last one off the range.   
VINCE KWON: All the hard work.   
TROY VANNUCCI: All the hard work no one sees, just glad to see it showing off.   
 Q.  Troy, you guys took down some heavyweights today.  That's got to mean something to you?  
TROY VANNUCCI: Yeah, those two guys are sticks.  They had a battle this morning.  They had like a birdie-fest match.  I think, talking to Hagestad, he said they shot like 8 under and lost, like jeez.  But that's match play.  You never know what you're going to get in match play.   
Then the wind in the afternoon picked up, and it was a totally different golf course out here.  You really had to be precise.  You had to flight it.  Anything that got in the air was really exposed, and your shots were way off the map.   
 Q.  What about your feelings?  It's your first USGA event.  You played in New Jersey Opens and Amateurs, but this is a little different.  
TROY VANNUCCI: Oh, yeah.  This is the big stage.  Everyone's watching.  Got a lot of support from back home, which is great, the members, The Gap, Jersey, everyone back home.   
And, yeah, I mean, just running with it.  We're just playing golf here.  It's fun.  Me and Vince, we're just having fun, and you're at Bandon overlooking the Pacific. It's beautiful here.   
 Q.  Vince what do you think the key moment in the match was today?  
VINCE KWON: I think the key moment was on -- which hole was that?  The 3rd hole.  Our playing partner, yeah, he knocked in a long one, and then Troy had like a downhill --   
TROY VANNUCCI: Double break.   
VINCE KWON: Yeah, 10, 15 footer.  He drained that.  The next hole was a tough green to hit.  So everyone was like short, and then we were long.  Who was that?  It was like short.   
TROY VANNUCCI: Matt was short.   
VINCE KWON: Yeah, and he hit about -- he had to lag it, had a 20-footer.  And then we chipped.   
TROY VANNUCCI: No, I made mine.  He made his 20-footer for par, and I made about a 15-footer for par, and that really kept the momentum because you don't want to lose to a par.  Kept the momentum, and then we chipped.  We got a few birdies coming in.   
 Q.  9, you birdied.  
TROY VANNUCCI: Yeah, which one is 9?   
 Q.  Right after the par 3.  
TROY VANNUCCI: Oh, the par 5, yeah.  It was really into your face there, hit driver and 3 wood.  Had like 80 yards.  Didn't hit a great shot.  Left it out there to the left because I know right is dead.  Made about a 25, what, 30-footer would you say?   
VINCE KWON: 30-footer, 30-footer.   
TROY VANNUCCI: Yeah, 30-footer dead center.  It was a big momentum putt to stay ahead.  You got to get ahead because every match we've been falling behind and grinding our way out of it.  It was a different feeling that we're ahead, we can swing free, and just I think we've been playing well on that middle stretch because we get behind and then we really play well in that middle stretch.   
VINCE KWON: We were running kind of cold, middle of our round, I think, back nine.  Then the 15th hole was where we got it up to 3 up.   
 Q.  Birdied 15, the par 5.  
VINCE KWON: I had a big drive, had about 233, hit it on in two, and had like a 50-footer up the hill, double breaker and, came up just a little short, six-footer.   
TROY VANNUCCI: That was a big momentum putt there too, him making that, because Matt, he hit it, hit it just past pin high on the right.  He had just an up the hill 40-footer, I would say, and it kind of got away from him on the low side and ran away from him.  He missed that one.  Once he missed that one, we're 3 up with three to go and still got to play good golf.  These guys are no pushover with their resumés.  I mean, just glad to come out on top.  Those guys are sticks, studs.   
 Q.  Thanks for your time.  
TROY VANNUCCI: Yep.   
VINCE KWON: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT