U.S. AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2019
Troy Vannucci
Vince Kwon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So stress.  You were feeling it at the end there, but you came through.  
TROY VANNUCCI: Yeah, I was leaking oil.  I mean, Vince, he played incredible.  He carried me all day.  I mean, I just chipped in a few holes to help him out.  And, I mean, they hit good shots in here on 18, and just to get a break like that, that was unfortunate.  But I was lucky enough to roll one in on 18 and just glad to be in the position.   
 Q.  Did Vince give you a read on that putt?  
TROY VANNUCCI: He did give me a read.  I saw a little bit at the end.  I didn't know what it was going to do up at the end.  I was kind of just wanting to get the speed.  He hit a perfect putt, almost went in, and it just gave me what I was looking for.   
 Q.  What kind of satisfaction do you get when you win a match with a stroke like that?  
TROY VANNUCCI: I mean, wins are wins.  You just got to take them when you get them.  Sometimes they're good, sometimes they're pretty ugly.  Just got to take them when you get them.   
 Q.  Vince, what was it like watching him having to at least two-putt to win the match?  
VINCE KWON: Feels very relieving.  I mean, it felt like the weight was off after he made that putt.  I mean, that birdie was fantastic.  And kind of helped him out in the middle of the round.   
 Q.  Tell me some of the things you did to help him.  
VINCE KWON: Well, we were -- I think we were 1 down to -- which hole was that, that short par 4?  That really short par 4?   
TROY VANNUCCI: I forget.  I forget these holes.  Playing all these --   
 Q.  7, you had a birdie.  
TROY VANNUCCI: Yeah, I think was it -- no, 7, I got it back to -- I got to have a scorecard.  7, I think we got it back to even after we were down.  So that was a big momentum putt, just to -- we were crawling back.  We were hitting good shots and finally got one to drip.   
And then I was kind of leaking oil, and Vince just played really solid all the way coming down the stretch.  He hit a lot of big shots.  Made a huge putt on 16, kind of chased it by the hole a little bit, and had a little eight-footer coming back that he just gutted.  That was clutch.  That was a huge momentum putt there.   
 Q.  Who made the birdie at 13?  
VINCE KWON: 13, I think I did.   
TROY VANNUCCI: Yeah.   
VINCE KWON: I hit a perfect drive.  I had, like, 62 yards to the pin.  Or, no, 44 to the pin, and then I hit a semi-flop to about four, five feet, I think.  And then had a right-to-left putt that went in.   
And then after that I think -- was that you that made a birdie?   
TROY VANNUCCI: On the par 5?  Yeah.   
VINCE KWON: No, on the par 4.  I mean, the uphill.   
TROY VANNUCCI: No, no, you drove the green.   
VINCE KWON: Yeah, I drove the green and two-putted.   
 Q.  On 14?  
VINCE KWON: Yeah, 14.   
 Q.  That halved the hole and kept you 1 up.  
VINCE KWON: We were like 1 up.   
TROY VANNUCCI: Yeah, it kept us 1 up.  And then on 15, I went for it in two, was on the front right half and two-putted.  Tyler hit an incredible shot on the green side left in the fescue.  I thought he was kind of dead over there, and he just hit a perfect flop up there to like two feet, gimme.   
And then that was it.  Then coming down the stretch, like with Vince.   
 Q.  And then 17, the birdie?  
TROY VANNUCCI: Yeah, 17, they didn't hit the best tee shots.  One in the bunker, one left.  They hit it out there to about 120 out, and --   
VINCE KWON: Somehow, they managed to --   
TROY VANNUCCI: They hit a good shot in there about four feet and capitalized.  That was big for them.  That was clutch.   
 Q.  So now you're back square, Vince, and what's your mindset now playing that last hole?  Because now you're in a sudden death type situation.  
VINCE KWON: I was like just hit a big drive off the tee.  Wherever it goes, it goes.  And then just try and just get somewhere around the green on the right side.  And which I think kind of came up short on the front and then just tried to trip.  That kind of didn't go well.   
But he hit a perfect -- Troy hit a perfect shot with a 6 iron in the fairway bunker, and he had about like a 10-footer, right?   
TROY VANNUCCI: No, 25.   
VINCE KWON: 25 footer, and you made that putt.   
 Q.  Troy, what did you hit out of the bunker?  What was your yardage?  
TROY VANNUCCI: I had 185, had a good lie in the bunker, had a stance swing, everything.  Just hit a punch cut 6 iron that just came out perfect, low, runny.  Just funneled down to the bottom of the green, and that was -- I couldn't draw it up any better than that.  It came out perfect.   
 Q.  Sometimes it's tough for medalists to come out that first match because now you've got a little bulls eye on your back now.  You guys made it out of it.  You survived.  Do you have a little more confidence now as you move forward?  
TROY VANNUCCI: It's tough getting off to that first match because you're anxious to get out there.  They had to go out in playoff, so they fought and clawed to get in.  So they're ready to go too.  Just got to get in and get settled and play some golf.   
Yeah, it is a little difficult because you have high expectations coming in.  All that goes out the window when the first tee goes in the ground with the first match.   
 Q.  Vince, how do you feel now that you survived a good battle?  
VINCE KWON: Moving forward, it's just a new slate.  Just got to keep grinding, keep our heads down.  One shot at a time.   
 Q.  All right.  Thank you, guys.  
TROY VANNUCCI: Thank you.   
VINCE KWON: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT