ROLAND GARROS
June 2, 2017
Nikoloz Basilashvili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. NADAL/N. Basilashvili
6-0, 6-1, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Can you tell us if you had some physical problems, if you were okay?  Because, I mean, this score is quite surprising after you played so well and beat -- you won two matches.  So even if Nadal is Nadal...
NIKOLOZ BASILASHVILI: Well, yeah.  The score was a little bit disappointing, but I had a really good week in Lyon.  Also here I played pretty good matches against Simon and also against Troicki.
Today, I mean, he's much, much better player than I am obviously.  And it's going to take a lot of work if I want to play on center court and play good match against him.  And also his game is something very difficult to handle and to come up with something from my game.
But in general, very good tournament for me, and I have to keep working and we'll see for the future.
Q. Could you describe for a fan maybe what it's like to be as good as you are at playing tennis, top 100 players in the world, win Grand Slam matches, to be in that court today facing Nadal and feel as you were just describing that you can't really do much against him?  What is that like?
NIKOLOZ BASILASHVILI: Well, first of all, of course, to be on center court is amazing.  I enjoy a lot.
But again, to what score was today, it was quite disappointing, of course, you know.  But it's very difficult to play against him because balls are coming very high.  I don't know if court is a little bit different, center court, than the other courts, but there I was receiving balls very high.
I had some couple plays in my head how to play against him but couldn't find any rhythm, couldn't hurt him in any place.  I was trying to change a little bit some things, but in every aspect of the game I could not hurt him.  He was turning and playing his game.
Q. You've had a very good year up to now.  What was going through your head after coming from semifinals in Sofia and, obviously, Lyon as well?  What was going through your head midway through that match when you were trying all these things and they weren't working out?  What was going through your head?  How do you mentally tackle such a problem?
NIKOLOZ BASILASHVILI: I was not -- today, I don't know why, but I was not -- I was not doing great physically.  That's maybe because he played very tough game for me.  I mean, it's very good experience for me, because I'm 25 years old and I think I have a lot of things to improve physically, mentally, and technical-wise also.
So I'm just going to take it as a plus for now that I get a very good experience on the center court, and I'm going to use it for the future for the good experience.
Q. And if I may, what would your advice be to Nadal's next opponent having seen what he's capable of in center court today?
NIKOLOZ BASILASHVILI: Actually, I was expecting, obviously, very, very difficult match, but not something like this, you know, because I have very aggressive tennis.  Usually, first two matches here I was -- even though second round he made me play out of my game a little bit, somehow I managed to get back and stay inside the court.
But, with him, I tried to do that but did not work anything.  So he's playing unbelievably good at this moment with everything.  So I don't know what advice I can give.
Q. Being a very weak former player, I've been sometimes destroyed by my opponents.  And I was thinking that I would have loved to go under the showers as soon as possible sometimes if I were embarrassed because the people were looking at me.  Did you feel sometimes the same?  You wanted to stay as long as you could, or not knowing what to do?
NIKOLOZ BASILASHVILI: The score is quite embarrassing, you know, but I have to accept it.  And also it gives me a lot of motivation for the future, you know, to keep working hard.  As I said, I have a lot of things to improve.
And I'm very happy as it is going now with the improvement.  So I'm always progressing, this year, every year, and I think that every week I'm adding some new things.
But I cannot go into the locker room and stay in the -- does not come out and does not see what's in media they're talking about me.  I cannot avoid this.
In Georgia, they were expecting because I'm the only player who is around top 100.  We have a couple other players.  So there was quite expectation to play at least a good game, you know, have a little bit of battle against Nadal, but did not happen.
Quite disappointing, of course, but I accept it.  So I have to move forward and think about for the next tournaments.
Q. In Georgia, is Leila Meskhi still involved in the federation?  And Alexander Metreveli was from Georgia and probably the best ever player.  Do you know him?  Have you ever talked to him?  Does he encourage you?
NIKOLOZ BASILASHVILI: Yeah.  No.  Leila Meskhi, she was in the federation.  Currently, she's not working there.  And I did not have any relationship with Metreveli.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT