THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 25, 2009
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Obviously a great round today, puts you right back in the thick of it.   
 DAVID TOMS: Yeah, I was pretty down after yesterday's round. I didn't do anything well yesterday at all. Short game was back today. Still driving the ball kind of erratic for me. I need to start putting the ball in the fairway more.  
 But putter felt good today, chipping around the greens, bunker play. Irons felt good, so got to figure out the driver, so I'll go work on that.   
  
  Q. You didn't get off to the greatest of starts yesterday. In a tournament like this, in a format like this, do you do anything differently? Are you firing at pins because you don't have much to lose, it's a no-cut event, or just kind of play your game?  
 DAVID TOMS: For me it was more I just wanted to play a good round of golf today. This is a tough golf course. Really my goal after yesterday was somehow to get back to even par in this tournament by the end because it's a tough golf course for me. I did that after one point, and now maybe I can relax a little bit and go out and continue to play well, and who knows, maybe I can get right back in it tomorrow if I have a good round.  
  
  Q. While you haven't won yet this year, you've got to be happy playing in the TOUR Championship after missing it last year. I know you feel like you belong here because you've been here eight or nine of the last ten years probably.   
 DAVID TOMS: Yeah, for me it's right there with being in a major championship. I know it's got more of a laid-back feel to it, but still, it's a reward for having a great season. Obviously it's good to be back here. It's a tournament that I was in for years and years, seven or eight years in a row, now I missed it the last couple years when we went to this new format, so it's definitely gratifying to be playing back here at East Lake.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT