TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2009
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Congratulations on the round. You're in the hunt going into Sunday. You gotta be happy.   
 DAVID TOMS: Yeah. I'm right there. Obviously I'm going a couple shots back. You can make that up in one hole. So pretty tight leaderboard. A lot of guys will have a chance tomorrow. And you look for somebody to break out of the pack and shoot a low round and everybody else will be chasing him.   
 So the key tomorrow will be to get off to a good start, maybe put some pressure on the leaders and keep going with it?  
  
  Q. You played welcoming out this morning, two birdies. Was the afternoon just a continuation of that?  
 DAVID TOMS: Yeah. The afternoon was really nice, same kind of conditions we've been playing under. You know, obviously we had a little stop in play there with a few holes left to play and I didn't really get back into my rhythm at all. I missed a couple of those fairways. I didn't really have great birdie opportunities. So it was just one of those another long day. I was out here teeing off at 8:00 this morning, and just finished up at 7:30. So try to go get some rest and be in for hopefully a good day tomorrow?  
  
  Q. When you go back in a situation like that after you've sat for an hour and a half, do you just try to stay the course?  
 DAVID TOMS: Yeah. We've been through just about everything as players, and you just have to go out there and focus one shot at a time, and everybody says it, but sometimes it's hard to do. And guys that were playing great might have lost their rhythm and guys that were just trying to get in might have been able to make a couple of good swings coming in to finish well. So everybody approaches it a little differently and for me it was just all about going out there and trying to get into it?  
  
  Q. David, I would think with a guy like Kenny, too, the competitive side of you, Sunday when you're already at the top like that?  
 DAVID TOMS: Well, I mean you got some really good players up there. Guys that have won this tournament before, guys that have proven they can win tournaments. It's going to be tough tomorrow, but I think guys that have been around the lead a lot and won tournaments probably feel a little more comfortable than some of the guys that are trying to win for the first time.   
 But you know what, it's still 18 holes of golf, same size hole, and we're all playing the same golf course, so you just gotta go out there and do it.   
  
  Q. You mentioned it's going to be tough. What do you think it's going to take for you to pull out the win tomorrow?  
 DAVID TOMS: It's going to take a low round. You see guys that shot some low numbers today. The lead group, I guess Goydos had a pretty hot round. Our group didn't do a whole lot. I mean four or five under is not a bad score, but as far as really separating ourselves, we didn't do it.   
 So tomorrow it'll just take probably -- who knows. Who knows what it'll be, but you won't be able to play mediocre and win this golf tournament?  
  
  Q. David, (Inaudible).   
 DAVID TOMS: Just playing better. More confident. For the most part, my driver's been better, more accurate this year. I've felt good on the golf course. I've enjoyed playing golf a little bit more and the results have been there, so it makes it more fun.  
 That's really about it. I haven't really done much to my golf swing any differently. Maybe worked a little bit harder and identify gotten the results.   
  
  Q. CBS, LSU, got a little Mojo this week?  
 DAVID TOMS: I don't know. CBS was fun. I really enjoyed playing with Nick Price, and Tigers winning. That was obviously a bonus. I'm a huge fan of theirs.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT