ST. JUDE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY FEDEX
June 14, 2009
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. David, congratulations on a heck of a tournament. Another good run here. Talk about today's efforts.
 DAVID TOMS: Today's effort was a good one. You know, I knew unless I shot something really deep on the front-9 and Brian stumbled a little bit, it's going to be hard to catch him, and that didn't happen. I played the golf course pretty conservatively. Had a bogey-free round, played great.

 Q. What happened on 16?
 DAVID TOMS: Sixteen I hit a great drive and hit a hybrid, almost put it in the hole. That was good. I haven't played that hole very good this week. Today to make 3, that certainly knocked me up the boards pretty good.

 Q. How was this particular event compared to years you've won here, how was the course playing?
 DAVID TOMS: You know, it was receptive all week. It got pretty long on the weekend with the rain. The greens were much different than the last couple years we played. We were able to fire at the flag. It was a pretty good golf tournament except for one guy stealing the show. I would hope the fans are pretty happy. It was nice and warm, but a lot of birdies being made and it was pretty fun to watch.

 Q. Final year of this tournament needing a title sponsor. What's your thought about that?
 DAVID TOMS: I'm going to do what I can -- in fact, I might sponsor it myself. (Laughter). I just hope that somebody comes around and steps up to the plate. It's a great event, and the community support is there, long-time event, been around for a long time. certainly I played well here, kind of partial to it, but we'll see if we can get it down and see what we can do.

 Q. Can you talk a little bit about next week?
 DAVID TOMS: Tough golf course. Glad I'm playing well going in, and really doesn't mean anything other than my confidence is high. And, you know, it's one of those events, the crowd will be into it. Hopefully, they'll get behind you and going up there and trying to play great and have a great week. 
 It will be tough. It was playing awfully long. It's been raining. Probably the same type conditions. Go out there and be patient and certainly, you know, grind it out every shot.

 Q. Best of luck.
 DAVID TOMS: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT