QUAIL HOLLOW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 2009
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You played the last three holes one under. 
 DAVID TOMS: Yeah, I don't know. I've played them pretty well. You know, I should have birdied 16 today. I hit it really close there. And then 17 obviously I made birdie. And then 18 I hit a good shot in and hit two good putts and walked away with a 5, so that was kind of disappointing. 

 Q. It seems like there's a public perception that golf is radioactive right now. Do you think it's kind of unfair?
 DAVID TOMS: I think it's unfair. I mean, a few people in Washington can control what goes on on the PGA TOUR. I mean, I know they've been on our side for a long time, the way our retirement plans are structured and everything else, but for the most part I think they like what's going on out here because of the charity component. You know, I guess they say what their people back home want them to say, but maybe they should come out for a week and see what's going on and see what actually takes place before they jump to conclusions and scare people off. 

 Q. Do you think you guys can do more than you do already?
 DAVID TOMS: I don't think so. I mean, we're here as entertainment, we're here to raise money for charity and obviously play golf and do what we do. But I think we have a pretty good model. It's great to be a part of, and it's unfortunate people feel like they don't need to be -- at least their name doesn't need to be out there in the limelight right now. I think they still want to be around golf and around its players, but the whole name-on-a-title thing, it's frustrating just because of the public's perception. They just see the winner get this big check on Sunday, and they really don't see the people's lives that you touch off the golf course and what goes on with the charities and what goes on with the guys that miss the cut. There's a whole story out there other than a big check at the end of the week. 

 Q. Someone from Louisiana said it touches you especially because of the charities around Katrina and some of the things you and the guys down there have done. 
 DAVID TOMS: Yeah, it's not just what goes on the week that we're playing, it goes on behind the scenes with what players do, as well. To ever get any press about these guys are spoiled with the money they're making and the people that are struggling and look at what these sponsors are doing, it's very unfortunate.

 Q. Were you affected much by the Stanford Financial?
 DAVID TOMS: Other than losing a pretty significant sponsor, no.

 Q. You didn't have a lot of money tucked away?
 DAVID TOMS: No.

 Q. Can I ask you one quick question about the Green Mile? What makes it so difficult? Is it just the wind conditions?
 DAVID TOMS: The wind has made conditions tough all week on every hole, trying to judge where it is. I hit the fairway on 18, and I'm standing out there 160 yards, and I could have hit three different clubs depending on which way the wind was going to go. That's what's making it difficult out there right now to get the ball close to the pin.

 Q. You busted that drive. Was that downwind or are you longer than I remember? 
 DAVID TOMS: No, I mean, I think it depends on which wind you catch. I think it probably got a little downwind and chased it out there pretty good. The fairways are firm so that helps me a lot. But I hit it good.

 Q. What did you take away playing with Jim and Tiger the first two days? 
 DAVID TOMS: I was glad to get away from all the people (laughter). It's fun, and that's where I want to be. I want to be in those kind of groups. It would be even more fun to be there late on a Sunday afternoon. That's what we all work for. It can be nerve-wracking at times. It can be where it's hard to concentrate with people going everywhere, but it would be nice to have crowds like that every single week like support this event. We'd be better off at the TOUR if we could get people out there like that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT