ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 23, 2009
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about your day. 
 DAVID TOMS: Yeah, I had a good day. Good, solid day. I made a long par putt at 3 that kind of jump started my day. It was a tough hole today. Played great, ball striking was really solid all the way around. Kind of struggled on 16 and 17 with a couple of bad iron shots, then made a nice solid par. Had a chance for birdie on 18. Just a good day. 
 You know, I haven't played this course particularly well in the past, and I needed to get off to a good start, and that's what today was.

 Q. What would it mean to you to win in New Orleans again? 
 DAVID TOMS: Sure, it would mean the world to me, but I'm just trying to get into contention first. You know, I really haven't been in contention since we moved to this golf course. So for me it's all about just trying to get a good round tomorrow and try to build on what I did today, and give myself a chance on Sunday.

 Q. What makes it special for you to be in New Orleans? 
 DAVID TOMS: I just enjoy the people down here. There are people out there supporting me. You see a lot of friends that I don't get to see when I'm in north Louisiana. And a lot of good memories. Obviously, winning here, it's always fun to come back.

 Q. Because you've had success here in New Orleans, what kind of makes you feel you're going to have success here again? 
 DAVID TOMS: Absolutely, any time I can get on Bermudagrass and sweat a little bit, I'm much happier doing that than playing up north and being cold. It's always been good to me. The city and the state has been, and I hope to give back a little bit.

 Q. When you stepped on the first tee this morning, how much does that motivate you? 
 DAVID TOMS: It sure is a motivator. It's fun to have the support out there. At the same time, you can try too hard for them. And you've still got to go out and play golf, especially on this golf course. 
 There are a lot of bad places you can get into out there, and just really had to stay focused no matter what the crowd's saying. Just got to go out there and play well. 

 Q. You feel fortunate to be 4 under? 
 DAVID TOMS: Yeah, I played good. I thought I had a few more chances there on the back nine that I didn't capitalize on. Couple of nice birdie putts that I had, fairly short ones. But the wind never got up too bad. We had to pay attention to it. It was probably a club and a half at times. So it's enough where you had to pay attention. 
 But obviously, the greens baked out, and the cups got torn up a little bit as Bermuda greens do, so probably tougher to make putts.

 Q. Did you make a long one at 16? 
 DAVID TOMS: Well, 15 I made a 25-footer for birdie, and that's always good to Milwaukee a birdie on that hole. They had the pin all the way back today, so that was a good birdie there. Then I made a nice par at 16 and 17 to keep my round going.

 Q. Was 15 the highlight of the round? 
 DAVID TOMS: Probably so. Between that and the long putts that I made for par on 3. 3 was so difficult today. We had a three-group back-up, so we had to wait a long time. Then it was a wood shot, hit it over-the-air green, chipped it up. Didn't have much of a chip, hit it 35 feet or so and made that for par. So that was a good par putt. 

 Q. Heard LSU and go Tigers and all of that? 
 DAVID TOMS: Yeah, I mean, to be quite honest, that's pretty normal. Everywhere I go, I'm still score keeper on the last hole. I've been in Scotland and heard it before. 

 Q. You mentioned you haven't been successful since the tournament moved here. Is that something to do with adjusting your game to this course or just the way you happen to play on those days? 
 DAVID TOMS: I think it's just I haven't played well here yet. Not saying the golf course is not made for me. With it firm like this, it's certainly a lot better than when it was soft and playing really long. It's just I haven't played well. I hope to turn that around this week. 

 Q. A lot of golfers complain about this course. 
 DAVID TOMS: Well, I mean, you get some funky angles on out there into the greens, but I like it much better when it's a little firmer like it is right now. Even though the greens are hard to on get the ball close at times to some of the pins because they're firm, I'd much rather the ball chase out on the fairways. You have a little shorter club in, and at least you have a chance that way. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT