SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 17, 2009
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOHN BUSH: We would like to welcome David Toms into the interview room after a 5-under par 65 add 9-under par through three rounds. David, great playing out there, and really good finish of the just comment on the day.   
 DAVID TOMS: It was a good, solid day for me. It started off on the first hole, I striped a 3-iron in there about ten feet, and lipped a putt out and so it was a pretty solid start. Just had a good, solid day. I think the only part of my round that wasn't what I wanted was I had a 6-iron into No. 9 for my second shot and made par and then missed a short birdie putt on No. 10.   
 And so there are two opportunities where most people are at least picking up one, maybe two shots there and I wasn't able to do that. But then I finished nicely with a chip-in there on 18, so it was good.   
  
  Q. Haven't done the math yet, but I've got to think that you're looking at 15, 16 players separated by four shots going into tomorrow, if not more.   
 DAVID TOMS: I mean, anybody can win. There was a 62 out there today. We're supposed to have tradewinds tomorrow. So the golf course is back to playing the conditions that most guys have seen many, many times here. There will be some guys that have a lot of experience, I guess, on this golf course with that type of wind blowing. So I'm sure somebody will go out and shoot a low one tomorrow. I hope it's me.   
  
  Q. This must be good in terms of you talk about the other day, building confidence to put together three in a row.   
 DAVID TOMS: Yeah, this is a good start. Today, my goal was just to play well enough to have a chance tomorrow and see how I do. Didn't do so well last year when I had opportunities like I have tomorrow. I want to be -- to try to test myself early.   
We'll see how it goes. I'm driving the ball pretty well so far this week, and give myself enough opportunities to score. Just have to have a hot putter tomorrow to have a chance.   
  
  Q. What's something you like best about this course?  
 DAVID TOMS: I like it, because you hit all different clubs off the tees into the greens. You have long and short holes. We only have really -- we have two par 5s to try to score on. They are both birdie opportunities the way it's playing today, and you need to do that it's just a good mixture.  
 I hit three or four long irons to par 4s and I hit a couple wedges to par 4s and same with the par 3s. I hit a couple of long shots and short shots and it has a flow to it. It's the type of course I wish we played more.  
  
  Q. Is it weird to come in chasing a guy that's five feet tall?  
 DAVID TOMS: That's golf. It wasn't many years ago where short wasn't that bad of a thing in golf. It seems like everybody is getting bigger and taller and stronger, and the game has kind of gone that way. I think he's got a bright future. Obviously a guy that can shoot 62 on this golf course on the Saturday of a PGA TOUR event has got a lot of talent. So I wish him well.   
 And then obviously it does this tournament good to have a local guy doing well.  
  
  Q. Do you remember two years ago when Tadd was making his run on Sunday that you and Harrison Frazar had some kind of conversation on a tee box where you were saying something to the effect of golf, this is kind of what it was all about and it was an exciting moment; do you remember that?  
 DAVID TOMS: Well, there's been a lot of that stuff here. We've had Michelle Wie play a few times. Tadd's doing well here. I think that any -- for us, the PGA TOUR, any kind of feel-good story is good for us. If he goes out and plays great tomorrow and has a chance, you know, that's a win/win, for this tournament, and for our TOUR.   
  
  Q. What was your sequence on 18 before you chipped?  
 DAVID TOMS: I pushed my drive out to the right and couldn't quite get to the green in two. I hit a 3-wood just short of the green.   
 That hole, the way it played today, if I would have hit my drive down the left side, and just got over the bunker, would I have probably been able to hit an iron into the green, but I kind of hung it out to the right and had a long way to go. I hit a great shot, just couldn't quite get there.  
  
  Q. Do you like that for a closing hole?  
 DAVID TOMS: I think it's good.   
  
  Q. With this wind, I mean.   
 DAVID TOMS: The way the wind was today, I think it's good. A lot of times when you get those hard tradewinds, guys can blow it over everything and have a real short shot. But right now, it's fairly soft. Even Stewart Cink he had to squeeze it into the neck of the fairway and he had some kind of long iron to the green. It's a place where you can makeup a shot, and with a chance for eagle if you hit two great shots.  
  
  Q. With the way things are right now, what's your line off that tee and how close do you come to the palms?  
 DAVID TOMS: Thursday and Friday, I had to go over them just to keep the ball on the fairway. I had to go over the palms, because I can't hit that hook shot very well. I hook it straight into the trees a lot of times if I try it.  
 Today the way the wind was, it was more in off the right and so it was perfect to try to get it in the fairway today.   
 JOHN BUSH: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT