NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 15, 2008
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  How is it out there?   
 DAVID TOMS:  It was interesting the last 27 holes that I've played with the wind and everything.  Certainly had to think about it on your club selection.  Made a lot of the holes play very difficult.  9, 18 were very tough, today and yesterday.   
 But a good golf course.  I mean, I like it when the fairways are rolling.  They are harder to hit but at the same time the golf course plays shorter which I like.  Usually you come here and kind of slop it around, but this week conditions are firm and fast and I like that.   
  
  Q.  Considering how it was last night and your final holes and how brutal that was, cold and wind, are you, A, glad to be done at night and then, B, 3-under, all things considered now?   
 DAVID TOMS:  Yeah, I played great yesterday, gave it back my last four or five holes, and got off to another good start today and made a double over there I guess on 15 and plugged one in the bunker with a 9-iron that I had it after a great drive.  So kind of gave it back.   
 But then I fought hard and finished pretty strong and obviously bogeyed the last hole.  I actually hit a great drive.  I only had 7-iron left to the ninth hole which was good for me and I hit a bad shot and made bogey.   
 But overall I'll take the two rounds that I've put up on the board.  It's really my second tournament of the year and the second week I've played any golf at all for a long time.   
 I'm getting there.  I just have to build on what I've done the last two days and play great on the weekend.   
  
  Q.  Still some rust?   
 DAVID TOMS:  Absolutely, probably more mentally than anything else.  I look back at some of the bad shots I hit, even the shot on 9, I just wasn't committed to where the wind was, and you have to do that when the wind is blowing.  You have to commit to the shot you're trying to hit, and I didn't do that and I paid the price.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about the difference in the draw?   
 DAVID TOMS:  Obviously yesterday it was a big deal.  I don't know what the scores were like but I could tell that nobody really did anything in the afternoon.  You know, when you show up to the course and the wind starts blowing and somebody is 5-under after nine, I figured they didn't have much wind in the morning.   
 So depend on what happens this afternoon.  It looks like it's dying down a little bit but maybe those things will even up at the end of the year.  You would hope so, anyway.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT