FBR OPEN
February 1, 2007
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, David, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the FBR Open.  Great start, 30 on the front nine, 65 for the day.  Just talk about what you did well out there and we'll go into questions.   
 DAVID TOMS:  I got off to a great start.  I birdied the first three holes, making pretty lengthy putts, not unmakeable putts, but 20, 25 feet, stuff like that, on the first two holes.  So that's a good way to start.   
 I held it together great on the front nine, had a lot of opportunities, made a couple more.  Kind of slowed my momentum on No. 10.  I drove it in a fairway bunker there, and it's a hole where I would have had 9-iron, wedge and had another good chance for birdie, and drove it in the bunker.  I ended up making par, but it was just kind of one of those holes that lost some momentum, and then I bogeyed 11, drove it in the right rough and caught a tree and ended up having about a five-footer for par and missed that.   
 The rest of the round was pretty solid, hitting the fairways, hitting the greens, made a couple birdies and finished up with a nice score.   
  
  Q.  The three guys at the top of the leaderboard now aren't considered bombers.  Are the conditions bringing people back in, or is that overrated?   
 DAVID TOMS:  You know, what you're seeing now is the greens are pretty receptive, so a guy like me is -- I'm hitting a 5- or 6-iron, and if I hit a good shot and I give myself a chance for birdie, we're in the same -- I'm able to stop it around the hole, whereas if the greens were firm and the course was still playing long, it would be more difficult.  But after the rain it is playing much longer.   
 But at the same time, I made good putts today.  The putter was the reason why I had a great score.  I'm going to have to continue to do that because I'm not going to have a lot of holes where I'm hitting short clubs unless it warms up a good bit.   
  
  Q.  Can you shoot the score that you did on the front and then you go to the back where there are some birdie holes, are you a little disappointed you didn't cash in on 17 and 15?   
 DAVID TOMS:  I did, but 13 I couldn't reach in two today, 15 I laid up in the middle of the fairways, I ended up making birdie there, but I didn't birdie 13, so those are two holes where long guys are hitting irons to the greens maybe.  I know Brett Wetterich, I played with him, he hit iron to both holes.   
 I'm a little disappointed that I really wasn't able to go low today because I felt in control and I wasn't able to play the way I did on the front.  I think 10 was the cause of that, not having a nice birdie opportunity there to keep it rolling.   
  
  Q.  Was that one of your best putting days?  It seemed like you holed everything from between 10 and 30 feet.   
 DAVID TOMS:  It was a good day.  I rolled the ball great in practice.  I rolled it really well in the nine holes I got to play yesterday, and I've always felt comfortable here on these greens for some reason.   
 Today was a very solid putting day.  I mean, I missed some decent putts on the back nine, but I still rolled it well.  You know, they had a chance.   
 Overall it was a very good day with the putter, yes.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT