MERCEDES-BENZ CHAMPIONSHIP
January 7, 2007
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DAVID TOMS:  I came out yesterday and birdied the last hole to shoot under par again, and I felt like I was close to playing a really good round.  I was hitting quality shots in the wind and just didn't have a feel for the greens at all speed-wise and I finally was able to make a couple of putts today and just played really solid golf again.   
  
  Q.  Take some confidence?   
 DAVID TOMS:  Yeah, because I came in here not playing any golf at all.  Literally, I played one week at the target since THE TOUR Championship and I didn't play golf any other day at home.  So I came here pretty rusty, and I improved every single day ball-striking-wise, short game-wise, every day that I was here.   
 If I can continue to do that, should be looking good by next week.   
  
  Q.  How does winning early help your frame of mind for the rest of the season?   
 DAVID TOMS:  I think it sets up everything.  I think you sometimes can get a little complacent but not me, I feel like every week that I show up, I have the determination to go out and try to win the golf tournament.   
 So for me, last year was great.  I've been lucky the last few years to be able to win early in the year.  It's set me up to take a little pressure off and just go out and have fun playing golf.   
  
  Q.  Do you have different goals, same goals?  What are your goals going into the year?   
 DAVID TOMS:  You know, it's just always to play my best, whatever that is.  It's usually, I'd be disappointed if I wasn't able to win a golf tournament this year.  I wouldn't be able to come over here and enjoy, and that's the first and foremost as always.   
 I guess this little FedExCup series thing, I'll figure that one out and do the best I can in that.  But again it's kind of a top 30, used to be Top-30 on the Money List was the goal but now it's Top-30 in points at the end so that way if I can call it a year in September, that would be nice.  If I could take the fall off, that would be nice.   
  
  Q.  What would you do -- the Commissioner was talking about this today, if you did take the fall off after the The TOUR Championship, what would you do?   
 DAVID TOMS:  I would probably play some events close to home as long as something else wasn't going on at that time, whether it's stuff going on with my family or a football game or hunting trip or something like that.  I'm not going to just stay home for three solid months.  I'll do something.  I'll probably play Jackson, San Antonio, maybe somewhere out in the desert or California, some place new, a place I haven't been before, just to check it out and stay sharp for the new year.   
  
  Q.  Does Waialae set up for you?   
 DAVID TOMS:  Well, I played well there.  Usually accuracy is pretty important there and if I get to driving the ball well, I was driving it well here it week, so I look forward to that going over there.  Obviously you have to putt well to win there.  The greens are pretty flat and there will be some birdies.  So, you know, that will be key to success.   
  
  Q.  You're not really pulling for Florida, are you?   
 DAVID TOMS:  Actual I am.  I would be happy for Chris as long as he would shut up about it after a month or so.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT