WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 24, 2006
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
A few comments on your round.
DAVID TOMS:  I was kind of up and down.  I got a couple under early and hit some squirrelly shots and made a couple bogeys.

But all in all, I started driving the ball much better in the last hole there.  I was pretty disappointed not hitting that fairway.  But for the most part, I kept it in play, so I had plenty of opportunities to attack when I could.

I putted well, and I just scored okay.  It wasn't one of those days where I was in control of everything, but 3 under is not bad on a long, tough golf course.
Q.  Do you feel like you're just continuing to build?
DAVID TOMS:  Yeah, I am.  It's not great, but it's much better than when I first started out at Flint about a month ago.  I feel much better about it.  I'm starting to feel better about my driver, and putting is coming around.  If I could control my distance a little bit better, I've struggled with that the last couple weeks, and control my distance a little bit better from the fairway, I'll be back where I want to be.
Q.  You've played here a few times.  Any thoughts on how the course sets up from years past?
DAVID TOMS:  Yeah, the golf course    when we started off this morning, it was perfect.  There wasn't a breath of wind blowing.  You know, we had overcast skies, and it was really good conditions for scoring.

And then even towards the end of the day, slight breeze, maybe half a club, so the golf course was there for the taking.  But you had to hit the fairways.  The rough is very thick, and I was fortunate to drive it in most of the fairways, and when I didn't, I struggled to make par.
Q.  The shot on 17 you were upset with, what did you hit in there?
DAVID TOMS:  I hit an 8 iron.  I thought it was perfect and we thought it was a little bit of wind into me.  I had 144 yards, I believe, and not much room behind it, and I threw it up high in the air and I thought it was going to come down perfect and I hit it over the green, and I was kicking myself for doing that because I thought I hit a good shot, but then obviously chipping in, that's a bonus.  That doesn't happen very often, especially from that position.
Q.  How far was that, any idea?
DAVID TOMS:  I don't know, it was just off the green.  I wasn't 15 feet from the hole.  I was just off the green there, but I was in the thick stuff, and it came out perfect.
Q.  Does the atmosphere at this tournament feel any different than it did when you first started coming here?
DAVID TOMS:  Yeah.  I think when it follows the PGA and everybody is up for a major championship, and the week after a lot of guys are tired.  I know the practice rounds probably weren't quite as intense.  The focus and preparation for me wasn't quite like it was the week before.  Fortunately I've played this golf course enough to know it pretty well.

You know, it's a little bit of a letdown, but still, it's a great golf course.  I think that's the reason they can continue to get the field here after a major, and it's obviously a big purse.  It would be a good one to win.
Q.  I guess my question was they were World Golf Championships when they started.  Do they feel more now like really rich PGA TOUR events with no cut?
DAVID TOMS:  Well, I think as long as you can continue to have them at a golf course like this, they'll separate themselves from the other tournaments.
Q.  People you've never heard of?  Does that help?
DAVID TOMS:  There are a lot of guys I've seen this week that I didn't know who they were, but that's part of World Golf now, and it's a World Golf Championship.  You know, more power to them.  If they can qualify, everybody else on our Tour has a chance to qualify for this event, too.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
DAVID TOMS:  Yeah, it's different.  It certainly is different, and it's different from the Match Play because you don't have big guys getting eliminated every day.

You know, I don't know.  I still think it has a feel of importance, that's for sure.  Any time you have a limited field on a golf course that's set up like this one is, you feel like you're at a special place, and it would be good to win it.  But does it have the luster that it once did, I'm not real sure about that.
Q.  Will it help it next year when the schedule puts it right in front of the PGA?  You said the practice rounds weren't as intense?
DAVID TOMS:  Yeah, because guys preparing for a major championship next week, you're going to have to be prepared to play this golf course well and you want to be prepared to play a major the next week.
Q.  The fact that Adam Scott followed up a great round on Sunday with a 7 under today, just how hard is it to carry that over after the letdown from a major?
DAVID TOMS:  He's a great player.  I'm surprised he doesn't do it more often to be honest with you.  It doesn't surprise me, guys riding high and played a great run on Sunday.  I saw the board, he didn't get off to a very good start.  It might be one of those cases where he was a little bit tired and was just kind of ho hum and then all of a sudden started hitting good shots and recalling what he did last week.  That happens a lot in golf.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT