FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
May 26, 2006
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How did you feel the course was playing, different from yesterday afternoon?
DAVID TOMS:  Very similar.  Maybe a little bit easier when we first teed off, the first four, five holes, but it's been consistently blowing all day and it's a tough golf course.  It's drying out.  The fairways are, so it makes it tough to hit the fairways and really got to pick and choose where you take attack on the greens.
Q.  (Inaudible)    made a 1 today.  Had a 5 at one point, finished with a birdie on your last hole to get it to 4.  Right now you're in the clubhouse.  You've got to feel good going into Saturday.  You've got to feel good about heading into Saturday.
DAVID TOMS:  Yeah, I'm playing well.  I scored well my first 9 today and gave it back a little bit on my back 9, but still overall it was a good day for my and, you know, I feel good about my game.  That's the main thing.
Q.  Talk about the first 9.  What was going right?
DAVID TOMS:  Well, just solid pars all the way until I got to 15.  I hit a good shot in there and made birdie.  Then I hit a great 5 wood into 16 and made an eagle from about 6 feet.  Made the nice putt at 18.  I made the turn at 4 under par for the day, which was really a good score back there, and, you know, I played pretty solid the first 6 holes on the front, had a chance, few chances to make birdie, didn't make them, and then I hit a bad tee shot on 5 and 3 putted 8.  It can happen that fast.
Q.  Talk about the conditions, David.  Do you think that people, the golfers, were expecting    because obviously everybody talked about the changes.  The wind blowing the last couple of days, are you guys taken by surprise a little bit about the way the course is playing?
DAVID TOMS:  Yeah, I think so.  Last year there were some good scores, not incredibly great scores or anything and, you know, these new greens are much firmer and they start to get some grain to them, you've got read that and make it a little bit tougher.

The tee shots are longer holes out there, not quite as many birdie opportunities.  Obviously took a birdie opportunity away on No. 5.  So now par is a good score around here.  You really have to work hard to make birdies.

I made the turn at 4 under par for the day which was really a good score back there and I played pretty solid the first six holes on the front.  I had a chance, few chances to make birdie and I didn't make them and then I hit a bad tee shot at 7 and 3 putted 8.  It can happen that fast.
Q.  Just based on how we'll you've done here in the past, would you still    you come in with confidence when you reach this stage of the tournament here?
DAVID TOMS:  I feel comfortable on the golf course but you still have to play well.  I mean I've done that the first two days.  I'm starting to feel better about it.

I felt really good today, very comfortable, hit a lot of good shots but, you know, no matter what kind of results you've had at a place, always draw on that.  At the same time you've still got to hit the shots and so that's what I'm going to have to this weekend.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT