THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 12, 2006
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DAVID TOMS:  I was happy with the score I had today.  It was another tough day on this golf course, and ultimately, the last six holes cost me yesterday.  Looking back on it and the way I finished up, it looks like I'm going to be a couple short.

But you know, I had another good week down here in south Florida.  The fans were fantastic.  They were behind me all the way.  I just didn't have enough in the tank to come out on top.
Q.  Your shot on 18, what were you thinking?
DAVID TOMS:  I had a perfect yardage, and seeing where my ball pitched on the left side, it would have been perfect, but I just pulled it a little bit.  I was off the last couple of days with my iron shots and never got the ball really close.  That was probably why I didn't win.
Q.  How disappointing is this in comparison to last week?
DAVID TOMS:  Not disappointing at all.  I played a good, solid round of golf today under tough conditions, and I came back from a disappointing day yesterday.  I feel good about leaving here.  I look forward to getting up to Sawgrass in a little over a week from now and hopefully have another good show.
Q.  Talk about how it got harder and harder from the first day?
DAVID TOMS:  The wind continued to dry the greens out and you're just putting defensive all the time.  Even into the grain, the greens were quick.  I had an uphill, into the grain putt on No. 12 for birdie from 20 feet and ran it six feet by.  So if you fell asleep at all with the putter, you were going to have a tough time making par.
Q.  Still a few weeks away, but is this good preparation for Augusta?
DAVID TOMS:  Yeah, these greens are designed a lot like Augusta where you're just never sure where your ball is going to end up, and you have to hit quality shots to have a chance to make birdies.  This would be a good place to come and prepare, other than the fact that these are a different surface, but the shape is very, very similar.
Q.  How big was that shot from the bunker for you?
DAVID TOMS:  Obviously it was huge, looking back, you know, it made me some money, that's for sure.  It moved me up some spots on the leaderboard.  I had a chance going to the last hole if I could make a birdie there and if Luke stumbled.  That was a big shot.
Q.  Is the iron play the only thing you feel you need to work on over the next couple of weeks?
DAVID TOMS:  My driver was not great but for the most part, I wasn't really in trouble with it.  I just didn't hit it as good as I wanted to.  The iron play, a lot of that has to do with trying to dial it in perfect to some of these pins.  You never could make just a golf swing, you're always having to take a little off, work it a little bit, work it into the wind, not too many normal golf shots out there, this golf course can do that to you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT