FORD CHAMPIONSHIP AT DORAL
March 4, 2006
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How do you feel about the way you're playing?
DAVID TOMS:  I'm in decent shape I guess, depending on if they go crazy the last couple of holes or something.

I didn't play my best golf today, but the golf course was more difficult.  It was a harder day for scoring.  I hung in there.
Q.  Harder because of the wind or drier greens?
DAVID TOMS:  Both.  And the dry greens came from the wind, so the wind had a lot to do with it.  Pins were tough coming to the downwind holes, pins were on the front and that made it tough to get it close.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
DAVID TOMS:  I had no chance to hit over that water there.  It's a tough shot, left to right wind, and that makes the fairway even half the size that it is.  I just drove it a few yards into the right rough and had no lie and had to chip out.
Q.  What's it like to be going along the back nine and having eight guys separated by a shot, just keep going?
DAVID TOMS:  Yeah, I was just trying to make a couple more birdies so I would have a chance.  I guess I still have a chance for tomorrow but I knew that I needed to finish off pretty well.  I made a 30 footer over there on 14.
Q.  17?
DAVID TOMS:  17, I hit a great drive and was down in the middle of fairway and had mud all over my ball, like the third or fourth time this week with that.  The pin was by that left bunker, and with that left to right wind, with the mud on the ball, I knew it was going to go to the right but I knew I couldn't make myself hit it to that left bunker and play for it because if it doesn't go to the right like it should, I would be in a really bad spot.  So what looked like a horrible shot but there was a lot more to it than just trying to hit a 9 iron up there close.  I got up and down and made a nice par there.
Q.  Think we'll see some pretty good fireworks tomorrow with some decent names up there?
DAVID TOMS:  Yeah, I think it's great.  The crowd is really into it out there, which is good to see.  If those guys were not at the top, would we see the number of people out here on the back nine?  Probably not.  Makes for a good tournament and good television.  If you happen to come out on top, you feel even better about it, beating the best players.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT