WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 23, 2006
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Another close tie, but it was successful for you?
DAVID TOMS:  Yeah, I had to play really, really well at the end.  I made a few birdies there in the end to come out on top.  He's a grinder and has a great short game.  He's never out of any hole and doesn't give you too much, so I had to go out and earn it.  It was a great match.
Q.  Nice win, three birdies in a row on the back nine to kind of pull away from him?
DAVID TOMS:  Yeah, it was.  That was the key to it all.  I had to do it, like I said.  He wasn't going to give me anything, so I knocked a couple stiff and made a nice putt on 16.
Q.  I walked the front nine with you, and almost you could throw a blanket over the fairway.
DAVID TOMS:  Yeah, similar distance with driver and irons.  I don't know if I putt quite as good as he does, but I'd like to have his stroke.  He was a tough opponent.
Q.  Is it tough playing somebody with an identical game to you or is it easier?
DAVID TOMS:  I think it's easier just because you're not really having to worry about somebody bombing it by you or whatever.  I think it's easier to play somebody with similar type games.
Q.  That's two Europeans you've dispensed this week.  Does that send a message to the K Club?
DAVID TOMS:  That's just what I've had.  It could have been a couple Americans, a couple of Aussies, you never know, so I was just fortunate to get out with victories.
Q.  How do you view them?  On our side in Europe there's a lot of excitement.  What's the feeling in the United States?
DAVID TOMS:  I think there's a lot of excitement amongst the players wanting to be part of the team.  The captain, I know he's excited.  I've heard a lot of stuff every week, people are talking about the Ryder Cup already as far as the fans go.  There will be a lot of focus on it, and it should be.  It's a great event and I'm happy to be a part of it.
Q.  Your captain could end up as your teammate the way things are going?
DAVID TOMS:  He's played great, and he's got the experience, and why not?  I think he would do well as one of the players.
Q.  Bernhard Langer who I spoke to yesterday knows Tom very well obviously.  He thinks perhaps if Tom qualified, he would give the captaincy to someone else.  Have you heard anything along those lines?
DAVID TOMS:  No, I think he's just focusing right now on trying to play the best golf he can, trying to make the team, but at the same time his duties as a captain.  Obviously it's okay with the way it's working right now because he's playing great, and in the end if he's part of the team, I'm sure he'll delegate somebody else.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT