WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2006
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You play Carl Petterson tomorrow, do you have any history with him?
DAVID TOMS:  No, I don't know that he's ever played in match play or anything.  Obviously he's a world class player that's won majors, he's won big tournaments.  I have to play well tomorrow.
Q.  I know you like to stay in your own bubble, did you happen to see what Tiger did today?  He won the first nine holes of his match.
DAVID TOMS:  Did he really?
Q.  Birdied six in a row to start and won 9 and 8.
DAVID TOMS:  He's probably the one guy that can do that.  It doesn't surprise me.  He's ranked No. 1 for a reason.  He went out and showed everyone he's No. 1.  But you start from scratch tomorrow, and you have to go out and maybe do the same thing tomorrow.
Q.  In terms of strategy, Stephen yesterday said    he thought he had a chance against Tiger, considering where Tiger hits it.  Is that the best way to play Tiger Woods?
DAVID TOMS:  I don't know if you give the best player in the world any extra incentive to want to beat you.  He's going to go out and play one shot at a time and be at his best.  And this format tends to bring out the best in him, and I'm sure after last year losing early he wanted to be there in the end.  So obviously he's brought his A game, and at least he did today.
Q.  Your match in particular looked pretty tight all the way?
DAVID TOMS:  Neither one of us got more than 1 up during the match, didn't play our best golf, not like we played last year, and a little bit later in the tournament.  But he rolled the ball better on the greens than I did.  Tee to green I was a little sharper than he was.  In the end I was lucky to get away with a victory.
Q.  That's match play, you just have to be one shot
DAVID TOMS:  Just have    you just have to be there.  I had an inside ten feet for birdie on the last hole, straight uphill in regulation.  I hit a terrible putt, didn't touch the hole.  I was very fortunate to win that.
Q.  We always get a sense that you enjoy the match play format, David, are you enjoying it this year again?
DAVID TOMS:  I like it.  Sometimes you have to be lucky to win two.  I think I was a little bit lucky to get out with a win.  I certainly didn't outplay my opponent, I was lucky in the end to come out on top.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT