THE INTERNATIONAL
August 4, 2005
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  First of all, I'm going to let you know we have canceled play for the day.  We will come back tomorrow and play the first round, beginning at 7 a.m., and then depending on what happens tomorrow with the weather, it will dictate how we continue out the rest of the week.

We have David Toms.  Let's get our questions in here to David and get him out of here so he can go relax.
Q.  What was your tee time today?
DAVID TOMS:  I was one of the lucky ones.  I was supposed to tee off at 12:30.  I was staying out here in a home in Castle Pines.  I was one of the lucky guys that didn't have to be here real early and sit around all day.

Like Slugger said in the locker room, you hate to have to keep guys here all day.  Thursday is a very important day to try to get some golf in because it affects the whole golf tournament the rest of the week when you have the full field and everything.  Had to keep them here because they weren't sure if they were going to be able to play or not.  Obviously, the conditions are such that no golf's going to be played.  I was here just hanging out, eating, watching the card tricks on the inside, just having a good time.
Q.  What is the scene like?  Bunch of kids at day camp?
DAVID TOMS:  I guess in the end, you run out of things to talk about.  You make your way around the locker room and find a different group of guys to sit with, tell stories, then you move on to another place.  Typical of what it's always like sitting around watching it rain.

This is actually one of the better places to have a rain delay.  I mean, it's a great locker room.  The food service, service for the players in general, is above and beyond what they really should be doing.  Makes you feel pretty special just to be around.  Tommy runs a great locker room in there.  If there is such a place to sit around, this would be one of the best ones.
Q.  Would you expect the sogginess that's going to prevail over the next few days is going to pretty much nullify whatever gains you get from being at high altitude?
DAVID TOMS:  Probably so.  Yesterday even in the ProAm, we weren't getting very much roll in the fairways.  It was a little soft.  I don't know if they had some rain last week or whatever.  The golf course is definitely playing long.  It will be even more important to be one of those guys that hits it high and a long way.  For sure, it will be an advantage.  This golf course can get firm at times and it brings more people into it.

It's going to be a bomber's paradise, that's for sure.
Q.  Could you talk a little about the proposed changes that are in store for the PGA TOUR and what you think is probably best for the TOUR?
DAVID TOMS:  What's best for the TOUR is whatever we have to do to continue to move forward and grow the TOUR.  I mean, we've had so much growth the last eight years.  Whatever we have to do to continue that trend, I'm not sure.  I mean, I'm not on the TOUR staff.  I am on the policy board, so maybe I have little bit of insight.  I think whatever they do, propose to the players for us to approve, I think it's going to be necessary to continue to move forward.

I think there will be different scenarios.  I'm not sure that there's one thing that's going to happen.  I think there will be a combination of things.  I'm not really sure what they're going to be.  I'm sure they have an idea of what they want to bring to us.  But right now there are a lot of things that are up in the air.  Hate to, you know, comment any further on it, to be honest with you.
Q.  You said you don't want to comment, but how much input do the players really have?  Is it a TOUR decision?  The players vote?  How does that whole thing play out?
DAVID TOMS:  The last eight years, the way the TOUR has grown, the only thing we've been able to do as far as help the process is the way we play golf and the way that we present ourselves out there.  That's helped.

But, you know, the TOUR staff has done everything else.  So you    we still have the confidence they're going to do the same thing in the future, whatever that is.  I think as a player, you have to accept whatever changes are made.  They've always done the right thing before.  Why all of a sudden is it not going to be the right thing?

I have all the confidence in the world that they'll present something to us that's going to be good for the TOUR, the future of the TOUR, and its players.

So as far as voting, "Oh, that's good, that's not good," there's always going to be something that affects somebody.  But you have to approach the TOUR as a whole, all the players, not just one little set of players.  They'll do the right thing.
Q.  With the championship next week, players wanting to get there, practice rounds, how antsy to players get?
DAVID TOMS:  I think the further along we get into the week, I think guys will start thinking about how it affects their preparation for the next week.  You know, we'll just have to wait and see how tomorrow plays out as far as how it's going to affect us going into it.  Are you going to have to play 36 on Sunday?  Are you going to have to play on Monday?  All those things will come into play after we see what happens tomorrow, how much golf we get in.

Sure, guys always look ahead to the next event, especially when it's a major championship.  I think guys are professional enough to approach every week.  I'm here.  I'm focused on this event.  Do the best I can.  Once it's over, move on to the next one.
Q.  (No microphone.)
DAVID TOMS:  I don't think so.  You know, this is a golf tournament, it's a special event.  It's one of our    I don't know.  To me it's one of those events that's separated a little bit from just your normal event just because of the scoring system, the venue that we have here, the fact that this tournament has been around for a long time.  I don't think you would see a player get into position where, "Hey, I've got to leave here to go prepare for the next week."  I don't think so.  I don't think that would happen.  Guys are pretty good about that, especially if you have a chance to do really well here.  I just don't see that being a problem at all.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT