FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
May 29, 2005
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you David for joining us here in the media center for a few minutes.  You made it interesting out there.  Great round today.
DAVID TOMS:  One of those magical days.  Just kind of a so so start.  Then came back on the back nine with the eagle, birdie on 16 and 17.  It made it interesting a least.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Questions, please.
Q.  Was there a point you thought it might happen?
DAVID TOMS:  Not really.  In fact, I got to 18 and obviously wanted to make birdie there and finish it off.  That was the only time I saw him at 15 under.  That is the only time I knew I was within 2.  I felt like if I made that putt there was a chance he could bogey 17 or 18, which he did.  I didn't hit a good putt there on the last hole.
Q.  A good approach shot on the way in?
DAVID TOMS:  I would have laid it down the same spot again.  There was a lot of wind at the time behind us.  I didn't get enough spin.  I couldn't land it much shorter.  If you hit it shorter it would come back in the water.  I landed it on top, right where I wanted to.
Q.  Is that 3 wood you hit or 8 wood?
DAVID TOMS:  3 wood.  I pulled it left.  That is what I said to my caddy, I couldn't believe how far that ball went.  That is adrenaline for you.  You have to take that into account with every club you are hitting.  It was scary looking at it off the tee but it turned out all right.
Q.  Is that electric for you?
DAVID TOMS:  The people were into it.  It was great.  They got into it when I made an eagle putt on 16 and hit a great second shot on 18.  It is neat when the crowd gets behind you.

To me, that is why I love playing golf.  I was playing all the way    grinding away on Tuesday afternoon.  That is not a whole lot of fun to be honest with you.  That is the best thing about golf.
Q.  You sense the crowd here is for you?
DAVID TOMS:  I always try to be polite to them.  I go out of my way to sign their autographs.  I love coming here.  I look forward to next year.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Go through your card real quick.  You had a birdie on No. 3.
DAVID TOMS:  Yes.  I hit a bunker shot to about eight or ten feet.  Made a nice putt on 10, holed it from the right bunker to 35, 40 feet.  Bogeyed 11, hit it in the water over the green off the tee.  13, hit a 6 iron to about 15 feet, hit a nice putt.
Q.  14 birdie?
DAVID TOMS:  6 iron again to 10 or 12 feet.  16, I hit a 5 iron about six or eight feet.  17, I chipped in from about 10 to 12 yards short of the green.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Any more questions guys?
Q.  Did it just take a couple of rounds to learn the greens and be comfortable on them?
DAVID TOMS:  I certainly felt more comfortable on the weekend.  I hit the putts straighter, not playing as much break.  My speed was ready.  For some reason early in the week I was playing too much break.  I purposely started trying to die the ball in the hole.
Q.  Can you assess now this golf course compared to what it was?
DAVID TOMS:  I think it is more challenging.  Obviously until the greens soften up it will be more challenging.  I think it will be good for the members.  They will have good greens for the entire year.  That will be good.

As far as the tournament goes, it is early to get so much rough on the golf course.  You don't need a lot of rough when you have firm greens.  If you land it on the greens it's gone.  Definitely more competitive.  I enjoyed it.  I really did.  The changes were all good.  I have no complaints on the golf course.
Q.  Is it more fun?
DAVID TOMS:  I liked it before.  You know, I think you have to go across the board and ask the players to see.  I like the new one.  I will always come to Memphis.  Will more top players come now?  We'll have to wait and see.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you, David.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT