WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 26, 2005
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
You come to the golf course today, and all of a sudden the two markers on 3, 4, 9 are moved back and the advantage goes to Adam Scott?
DAVID TOMS:  Absolutely.  The golf course has dried out enough so it's playable on those holes.  Fortunately I played well and I kept the pressure on him.  I hit the ball in the fairway off the tee.  That was my game plan, really; try to keep it in the fairway and go from there.
Q.  Are there three or four times today when Adam was inside you with a par or birdie, you made it first, throwing all the pressure on him?
DAVID TOMS:  Yeah, I did that a few times, but I missed one early to go 3 up and then I missed one late in the round to go 2 up, so I had some opportunities, there, too, to put the pressure on him and didn't quite do it.
Q.  But the one you did not miss, which may have been the most important, was the par putt on 15 to stay 1 up?
DAVID TOMS:  Yeah, my caddie and I had been reading the putts together the whole day, and I wasn't making too many.  I told him, I said, "I've got this one," without him saying anything.  I poured it in, and he said, "Sure enough, you had that one."  So that was a big putt, definitely, in this match.

I had to play extremely well both matches to win.  Actually my last three matches I played I had to shoot well under par to win the match.  I feel good right now on this golf course, and hopefully I can continue to play like I'm playing.  I did make some timely putts out there.  I missed a couple and had a chance to go 3 up on the back and 2 up midway through the front, through the front nine, and 3 up through the back nine and couldn't quite do it.

It was a big putt on 10 after he hit it close, but he tapped me right after that.  So it's one of those you kind of hope you're taking the momentum, and the other guy misses afterwards.  But that doesn't happen.

On 15, that was a big putt for me to make that one there, I guess the only time today where I was in a tough spot off the tee and didn't hit a very good chip and made a pretty good putt.
Q.  Your game is going good right now?
DAVID TOMS:  Yeah, everything feels solid.  It's a tricky thing trying to hit these back pins, trying to take the spin off, but it's still difficult.  I've mastered it so far.  I've just got to keep doing it.
Q.  You missed just one fairway today?
DAVID TOMS:  I believe so.  That part feels really good.  I feel like if I can continue that the next few rounds, I'll be fine.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT