CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 16, 2004
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
You look at that leaderboard and you just rode a roller coaster today.
DAVID TOMS:  Yeah, I did.  I just couldn't find my touch early on.  Yeah, just my speed was off on my putter today.  I had four, three putts.  Other than that I played really solid.  So that was kind of unfortunate because I putted so well yesterday that I started feeling a little bit better about it coming in and it gave me some confidence for tomorrow.
Q.  You had the ups and downs but you finished strong, how important is that for tomorrow?
DAVID TOMS:  Very important.  I birdied 13, 14 and eagled 15 and then played the last three holes real solid.  16, 17 are tough holes.  Pars there are good scores.  So I feel good about the way I finished.  I'll leap better tonight.  The food will taste a little bit better.  And hopefully tomorrow I can go out and have a good round.
Q.  With the conditions today, a lot of guys have come through and talked about how difficult it, how windy it was, particularly in the middle of the round.
DAVID TOMS:  Yeah, the beginning of my round and the middle of my round was pretty difficult.  We caught a break, the leaders did, the last five or six holes, it started to calm down, which that helped me a lot having to come back the way I did.  So hopefully tomorrow we'll have a better day for scoring and it should be a shoot-out.
Q.  There's some guys, so many guys up there within three shots.  What's it going to take to win tomorrow?
DAVID TOMS:  Well, I mean, depending upon what the wind does.  If it stays down overnight and doesn't pick up tomorrow I think you'll see some good scores.

It's probably going to, it could be somebody that comes from five, six, seven shots back.  You never know.  There can be a 63 or 64 with no problem.
Q.  Do you like the shoot-out scenario?
DAVID TOMS:  No, I think it's great for the tournament, any time that can happen where you have a lot of guys with a chance.  I think it's good for television, it's good for the fans.  They have a lot of people to pull for out there tomorrow and I think somebody will get hot and win this thing.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT