CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 15, 2004
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRIS REIMER:  Well, David, a solid round today.  Got you within one stroke of the lead right now.  What did you have working today?
DAVID TOMS:  Boy, Andrew Magee told me I had 24 putts.  Which I didn't know I had that.  So I guess that's what I had working today was the putter.  Overall my short game because good.  It was a tough day to get a lot of opportunities to make birdies and it seemed like when I did I capitalized on them and when I got in a tough spot I recovered well.

So I'm not surprised that I played, that I ended up playing good today just because my last nine yesterday I shot five under I felt confident going into today so I wasn't really surprised at the score, it was just a good score considering the conditions.
CHRIS REIMER:  Some questions for David?
Q.  When did the wind begin to really become an issue during your round or was it that way all day?
DAVID TOMS:  It was right there from the beginning.  No. 1 is typical or usually a driver and a little wedge.  And today we teed off it was into us right-to-left and it was probably a driver and an 8-iron for a lot of guys.  So that's a perfect example of how we started off.  It was tough.  It seemed to get worse as the round went on.  But still at the beginning it was pretty difficult also.
Q.  How do you stay mentally fresh all season?  I know it's getting toward the end of the year.
DAVID TOMS:  Well, I think that you have to really learn how to pace yourself during the year.  Know when to get up for an event.  I try to prepare for each and every event the same.  Prepare the best I can.  But a lot of times you might have an event that just kind of, you don't necessarily get up for, you're not prepared like you should.  But you think over the years you start to learn a lot about yourself.  I always play about 28 to 30 events.  27 to 30.  And this year I got, I missed first couple months of the season, so I really haven't -- I had to play a lot in the end just to get my normal amount of tournaments in.  So for me it's just about pacing yourself, really.  And picking and choosing where you like to play, where you fool comfortable.  And for me I have the motivation, I'm 27th, I guess, on the Money List, have I motivation at the end to try to make the TOUR Championship, so I come here with a definite goal in mind.  Not just winning the tournament, but trying to play well and if you're right on the verge of missing the cut to hang in there because you never know when every dollar might make a difference.  So that's the way I approached the last six or seven weeks is even if I don't get off to a good start to really hang in there because you never know, you know, when that one dollar could make a difference.
Q.  Because you were off last week.
DAVID TOMS:  Did not play last week.  I played a few in a row, Ryder Cup being one of those, and went over to Ireland and didn't play any last week.  I haven't played Vegas in the last six years or so.
Q.  How well do you know Brent Geiberger?
DAVID TOMS:  Very well.  We played in '95, we were playing the Nike Tour together.  Both had some, couple of good years out there.  So we both got back on TOUR or maybe it was his first time, I'm not sure, in '96.  So we played a lot of golf together.  Practice rounds and so forth.
Q.  He's kind of struggled the last couple years and certainly this year, what's it like for you to kind of see him go out there today?
DAVID TOMS:  Well, I feel good for him because and very happy for him.  I know he's had a lot of injuries he's struggled with.  I don't think he's really played that many events.  Or hasn't played healthy, anyway.  So very happy that he's up there playing well.  And he's a great player and when he's healthy, he's as good as anybody.
CHRIS REIMER:  Questions for David?  All right.  Thank you for your time.
DAVID TOMS:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT