SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 9, 2015
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. David, did you have a number in mind?  69, pretty good number, and you obviously had a good final round there.  Did you have a number when you started the final round what you might need?
DAVID TOMS: Oh, not really.  We were out there for so long today, it wasn't really -- it felt like just all one round, even though I had to play about 27 holes.  It's just been a long week.  I played really solid all week, and I think the key to not being able to quite get there was a slow start on my first nine the last round.  I shot 1-over, had a three-putt, and just didn't make anything, didn't get the ball close, and that's really the key to coming up a little short.
Q. Nice try, by the way, on that last hole.  I'm sure you hoped you would have gotten a little closer for a birdie chance on your final hole?
DAVID TOMS: Yeah, I mean, I was a little cart-path aided and I was in the rough, so I was trying to play for a little flier out of there, and I didn't get it.  Looking back, I should have hit my 7-iron, got it all the way back to the hole.  But I knew I didn't want to be over the green because that's pretty much bogey.  Just didn't quite work out.
Q. All things considered, the weather conditions and everything else, you've had a good time, you enjoyed the sander son farms?
DAVID TOMS: Yeah, I really like this golf course.  Being wet wasn't the greatest thing in the world for me.  Patton was hitting it 30 and 40 yards by me all the time.  I look forward to coming back next year when it's a little bit firmer and having another good week.
Q. You played so well here last year.  Just your thoughts on that?
DAVID TOMS: Well, it started way back in the big eye when I had a good junior event here.  A lot of history around this place, even though the golf course has been redone.  Just didn't do anything at all in the final round.  I had a chance and didn't do anything at all and finished top 10, so to hang in there today after a real slow start on my last round, I was proud of the way I came back on the back nine and shot 4-under par and had a chance.
Q. Talk about the condition of the course, given how much rain they had.  Your thoughts on that because this is only the second year here and this was a big test for this golf course?
DAVID TOMS: Well, I think it really made a statement how hard they had to work, the grounds crew, to get this course playable.  The bunkers were fine all week, which is just amazing with the amount of rain they had.  You know, the fairways were playing the ball lift, clean and place, we could get through it.  The greens stayed dry and actually weren't really -- weren't that soft.  I think guys will have pretty high praise.  We had a lot of guys play this week because the guys enjoyed the course last year, and it was firm and fast.  So unfortunate with all the rain, but still, a good showing for everybody.
Q. David, you were at 17-under par playing the 18th hole.  Peter was at 18 just a group back.  Did you know where you stood playing that finishing hole?
DAVID TOMS: Yeah, I knew I needed a birdie.  I got a break with the cart path on the drive and got it way down there, but having to drop in the rough, I wasn't sure if I was going to get a flier or not, so I had to play for one and I didn't get it and came up short.  But overall just very pleased with the week on a wet golf course that wasn't necessarily great for me.  I felt like I showed pretty well.
Q. You were 1-over through 9, made a flurry of birdies coming in.  How did you turn things around on Monday?
DAVID TOMS: You know, I just kept believing that I was going to start making some.  I really played solid all week, and to have an over-par nine, I was not in shock but disappointed.  I hit a great shot at 10 and got a nice birdie on a tough par-3 to get myself going and then played really solid the rest of the way.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT