VALERO TEXAS OPEN
September 24, 2003
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   It's been a while since you played. 
 
DAVID TOMS: Yes, a month.  I had four weeks off.  I really don't know what to expect.  During that month I played some golf, which I normally don't do when I'm home. 
 

Q.   Is that the longest break you've had in a while?
 
DAVID TOMS:   It's the longest break I've taken during the season in my career.  It's just the way it worked out.  I feel refreshed and hopefully ready to go. 
 

Q.   What did you think of the course this morning?
 
DAVID TOMS:   It's a little bit soft.  I played nine holes yesterday and this morning there was some due on the ground.  It's softer than two years ago.  It's playing longer and the greens are slower.  I think it will be good. 
 

Q.   A couple of years ago, the last time you were here, it was an emotional week for you.  It was the first time you played since 9/11.  I know you didn't play as well as you might have liked that week.  Will this tournament be special because of that?
 
DAVID TOMS:   I've always enjoyed coming to San Antonio.  Any time I can play bermuda grass is good for me.  I grew up on it.  I look forward to coming here and I feel comfortable on this style of golf course and the greens, so hopefully I'll play well. 
 

Q.   Sergio was here.  He was undergoing a pretty major reconstruction of his swing.  Have you ever done anything like that since you've been out here?
 
DAVID TOMS:   To me, it's been steady progress as far as what I've worked on in the last five or six years.  It seems like when I get off track, those are the things I revert back to and I'm always trying to  -- it's more maintenance than anything else.  I've never had a complete overhaul.  It's hard to make a bunch of changes at one time.  You usually make one little change and stick with it for a while and then make another one.  Obviously, in Sergio's case, he's trying to be the best player in the world and he has the talent to do that, and if he felt like he needed to make those changes, I'm sure in the end it will pay off because he's talented guy. 
 

Q.   What did you do during the month?
 
DAVID TOMS:   I went to football games, the Louisiana Tech and Miami football game, things I enjoy doing, dove hunting a couple of times, taking my boy to school, picking him up from school.  I don't get to do that very often, just family things more than anything else. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT