THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
November 1, 2002
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Talk about your day today. 
DAVID TOMS:   No bogeys.  Front side, I hit a lot of good shots.  Didn't make any putts, but I did hit a couple of wayward shots and made a couple great up-and-downs.  I made a great up-and-down at 5 and 6, two great up-and-downs there. 
Played really solid on the back.  Other than 10, I drove it in the rough, hit it in the left bunker had a very difficult shot and almost made it, so that kind of kept me going.  At least stayed even par and didn't get over. 
Made a couple of nice putts on 11 and 12 and just played real solid from there to the house. 

Q.  How have you been playing since the Ryder Cup?
DAVID TOMS:   Yeah, I have, I've been playing real solid golf.  I just can't quite seem to get that victory, but I've played really well and I'm pleased with the way my game is.  If I can hold up okay in this  -- I'm sure the weather is going to get cooler tomorrow, they say.  If I can hang in there, when I hit bad shots and if I can recover like I did today and do that over the last two days, I'll be fine.

Q.  What does it say about the course; that no one is really running away? 
DAVID TOMS:   First of all the pin placements have been very difficult, and it's been gusty wind the last couple of days and tough to pick a club.  Any time it's on the edges and you're not confident of the club, it's tough to get it close.  I have not seen a lot of balls real close to the pin.

Q.  Different style of play?
DAVID TOMS:   Yeah, any time I've tried to be aggressive, I've got in trouble.  That's the way you have to play this golf course, at least under the conditions we're playing under.

Q.  When did you get a feel for the speed of the greens today? 
DAVID TOMS:   Not too long.  I got above the hole on the first hole.  I hit it in there about five feet, but I was above the pin and all I had to do was breathe on it and it still went past the hole.  I figured out right then and there that it was going to be quick.

Q.  Is the wind the great defender for you guys? 
DAVID TOMS:   It is.  Even though we have the ball in our hands and able to tee it up in the fairway, with the gusty wind and the pins on the corners,  it makes it difficult, real difficult.

Q.  Compare conditions yesterday and today.
DAVID TOMS:   Very similar.  The temperature felt about the same.  I think the greens are drying out a little bit.  Probably not holding quite as well as they were yesterday, but still, the course is  -- other than the fairways being real wet, the course is perfect. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT