BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2015
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Nice way to cap off a great day. Just get some comments.   
DAVID TOMS: Yeah, I played extremely well. Hit a lot of shots close to the hole today even though I did capitalize on them and made the putts. Still hit a lot of close shots. That was how I got so many points.   
For the most part I drove it in play all day except for the 17th hole today. Hit a bad tee shot there and ended up making bogey.  
Other than that my other bogey was a three‑putt.   
   
 Q. Which hole? Do you remember?  
DAVID TOMS: Let's see, had to be 6. Yeah, I a good shot and just hit it through the back of the green on the fringe and three‑putted from there.   
Other than that it was pretty solid.  
   
 Q. Talk about 9. You almost chipped in from like 100 yards out.   
DAVID TOMS: Yeah, just over 100. It was perfect yardage for a little sand wedge in there. It was a tight pin and went ahead and got aggressive, played it left of the hole, and it came back down the hill real close.  
   
 Q. (Indiscernible.)   
DAVID TOMS: Wasn't very far. Probably about four inches.  
   
 Q. How excited are you for tomorrow?  
DAVID TOMS: Good. I mean, any time at my age at this point in my career to have a chance with a really good round tomorrow, that's really all I can ask for. That's why I came here.  
So I'm in that position. Whether I do good or not I'm going to feel comfortable, go out there, and continue to be aggressive when I can and obviously take your licks when you have to.  
But just to have the opportunity to be right in the mix tomorrow is, like I said what I came to Reno for and to be in that position.  
Very happy so far.  
   
 Q. You begrudgingly gave up your son's golf tournament.   
DAVID TOMS: He was playing in the Junior PGA, and I hadn't been back to that golf tournament since 1984 when I won that tournament.   
Sure, I would've loved to have been right there with him grinding every shot, which I have done all summer most of his tournaments.  
You know, only had a few tournaments left in this season to try to get into the playoffs, so that's why I came here.  
   
 Q. What year did you win it, did you say?  
DAVID TOMS: 1984.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT