WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2002
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  You described yesterday's match with Rocco as a dogfight?
DAVID TOMS:   We were both under par.  We played nice and solid. I guess if you concede my par at 17, that's 3-under par for the rounds and that's a good, solid round. 

Q.  Dogfight?
DAVID TOMS:   I think so.  He holed a bunch of shots, I holed a long putt.  Just those things that make it fun to watch.

Q.  How far was that putt?
DAVID TOMS:   I don't know, 40 or 50 feet.

Q.  How did you feel after that?
DAVID TOMS:   Well, he was in the rough off the tee and tried to be aggressive, and his ball hits right in the face of the bunker; instead of plugging, it rolled back down in the bunker.  I was conservative with my second shot and hit a sand wedge in.  But I was trying to get it past the hole, so I didn't do the same thing and he end up holing the bunker shot.

Q.  Yesterday you said you haven't really put it all together this week; are you proud of yourself for how you've battled?
DAVID TOMS:   Absolutely.  I've battled better this week than I have previously in this event.  I have not got down on myself.  I just hung in there and fought it out the whole way. 

Q.  Did you learn a lot from last year?
DAVID TOMS:   I've learned a lot of the.  Golf is crazy.  You don't know what's going to happen.  You have to hang in there.  I have the ability to make birdie at any time, which is a good thing as long as you hang in there. 

Q.  You said you two played nine holes earlier this week?
DAVID TOMS:   Yeah, and he played great and was talking about how to try to make putts on this week and he went to the claw  -- it's obviously working.  He's been playing good the last few years. 

Q.  Another poa annua guy, too.
DAVID TOMS:   Yeah, he's grown up on this stuff out here.  He's a California guy, he's a good player.  I don't think he gets enough credit because he's been very consistent last few years.  I notice that he's had some upsets this week, beating higher seeds, but he's a great player.

Q.  Surprised Tom Lehman is still around? 
DAVID TOMS:   No, shows how tough a guy he is.  He has a great Ryder Cup record; so he's obviously a good match-play player.  He's been a great player out here for a long time.




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT