WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 20, 2002
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  You had a really competitive match.  You have to be happy to get out of here with a win?
DAVID TOMS:   Yeah, I caught a hot player.  He's been playing really good golf.  Rory didn't let up at all today.  He made a mistake at 16 and then another one at 17, but then he came back and made a 50-footer when I thought I was going to be able to get out of there on 17. 
It was a tough match.  We both had to play good golf.  We made a couple bogeys and made some birdies, too.  I think we were both under par, so it was a good match.

Q.  What made you decide to come out a few days earlier and practice?
DAVID TOMS:  I was going to be in a lot better shape doing that than just staying home for four or five more days.
I feel good about my game.  My tee ball was not all that great today.  I'm going to work on that this afternoon, and if I can straighten that out, I will be in good shape. 

Q.  Do you think you can make some noise in the tournament  --?
DAVID TOMS:   Well, I've never made it past the second round.  I don't know how Rocco played today, but, you know, he won pretty convincingly, so obviously, he's playing well and I hope to play good tomorrow.

Q.  You broke a three-year jinx; you're the first of the sixth seeds to win in this tournament.
DAVID TOMS:   I didn't know that until I walked onto my practice round yesterday and one of your colleagues informed me that the sixth seed had never won in the first round.  So, I wanted to be at least the first to do that. 

Q.  In general, what was the one thing that was the difference today?
DAVID TOMS:   Well, I think I just hung in there and tried not to make any mistakes.  I made a couple of mistakes early, but on the back nine when it got tied, I just played my game.  He made a couple of mistakes and I was able to capitalize.

Q.  You are at the point now that even if you can't drive it how you would like to, you are able to manage your game; would you agree with that?
DAVID TOMS:   I think so.  I think it's just being able to come back from a bad shot.  Early in my career, I would get down on myself and now I know  -- I try to recover the best I can.

Q.  You have Rocco next. 
DAVID TOMS:   Every time I've ever played with Rocco Mediate, he's played good golf.  I respect his game and I know that I have to play well to win.

Q.  Was 16 the turning point?
DAVID TOMS:   Oh, definitely.

Q.  Can you talk about that?
DAVID TOMS:   Well, he was in the middle of the fairway.  I was in the rough off the tee.  I missed the green, but I was in good shape.  He was in the middle of the fairway with a wide-open green and missed it into the bunker and didn't get up-and-down.  I went 1-up there. 
But on 17, I hit the second shot in the water, dropped, knocked it on the green 50 feet.  I played conservative there.  I could have gotten closer to the pin there and I just tried to play past the pin so I could avoid chucking it back in the water, and then he made a 50-footer.  So I had to not only 2-putt, but go to the next hole after that. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT