ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 24, 2015
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Yesterday going even par, talk about your round today? 
DAVID TOMS:   Yeah, I felt like it was playing okay.   It's a really long golf course.   Just didn't score at all yesterday, only had a couple birdies.   Today, really patient on the front nine.   Couldn't get anything going, and then my last nine holes it was pretty solid.   Lot of birdie opportunities, and I made some nice putts.   (Indiscernible) I was able to run in some 12 and 15‑foot putts.

Q.   Do you get a feel this could be one of my days I can post a big number or just kind of go with the round and keep going putt to putt? 
DAVID TOMS:   Man, I've been out here long enough to know you just play one shot at a time.   We all say it, but that's the only way to play golf.   I mean, sometimes you feel better some days than you do others, but for the most part we're out there doing the best we can on every shot.   If you have it, you have it.   If you don't, hopefully there is another week.

Q.   On 9 it was hard for us to see behind the green how close? 
DAVID TOMS:   Really close.   I just ran out of speed.   I had a perfect line and little green at the end.   I thought it would hang on there and got me excited and just fell off to the left.   But it's okay.   That's a par hole anyway.   A birdie would have been a bonus on a hole like that.   I just didn't want to make a bad swing and put up a big number there on 9.   Just get out of there and at least get to the weekend.

Q.   You talk about how long the course is.   How much would you say it's playing extra? 
DAVID TOMS:   Well, we literally‑‑

Q.   100, 20 yards? 
DAVID TOMS:   Well, here's the deal.   You're having probably 15 to 20 yards less roll on your drive, so whatever that adds up to.   Certainly this golf course, I can play it pretty well when it's firm and fast, but right now it's really kind of a bomber's paradise.   Just bomb it out there and get shorter shots into these receptive greens. 
I'm going to have to regroove my hybrid, both my hybrids after this week, because I've been hitting them on every other hole, it seems like.

Q.   When you come here (Indiscernible)?
DAVID TOMS:   Well, I didn't getting to last night.   With the rain delay I was here till dark, so hopefully I'll get up there tonight with the rain will hold.   I haven't been able to use my tickets all year, so I'm hoping to go catch a game.

Q.   Were you pretty disappointed yesterday after even par?   I mean, then to come back today and get to 5‑under almost? 
DAVID TOMS:   I mean, anytime on a golf course like this for me that's playing this long and even with perfect conditions, even par is not an awful score.   It just wasn't very good compared to the rest of the field.   I know I needed a low round today or really solid round to be able to play on the weekend, and you never know what happens after that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT