THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DYNEGY
November 4, 2001
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Did the wait affect you at all for Sergio to play?
 
DAVID TOMS:  Not at all.  If I was him, I would have taken a long time over there, too.  He wanted to know his options.  He had a tough shot, so why not take your time? 
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
DAVID TOMS:  Well it was -- I went inside kind of kicking myself because I birdied  17 there.  But still I had a great week and I was lucky to get in a playoff and at least have a chance.  And Mike made a great birdie there.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
DAVID TOMS:  It's getting dark, but it wouldn't have been too bad.  This is a great place and I wouldn't have minded staying another night.  
 
Q.  It ended up being a four person playoff.  How did that affect you?
 
DAVID TOMS:  Well, it shows you how close everybody is, as far as the talent level and everything.  It was great for fans and players.  Sergio and I were out on the range talking about how much fun it was watching everybody finish on big screen, and that's what the PGA Tour is all about.  
 
Q.  What was the shot on 18 there?
 
DAVID TOMS:  I had 123 yards and I hit a soft wedge and it just flew way past the hole.  Same thing in regulation.  I hit a 9-iron almost 150 yards.  I don't know why it did that.  
 
Q.  David, your year has been really remarkable.  In a few words, can you just kind of sum it up?
 
DAVID TOMS:  Really, it exceeded my expectations.  So now I know what I'm capable of doing and, hopefully, I can continue to play at that level.  
 
Q.  As far as the off-season goes, I know it's only nine weeks, but how do you plan to relax?
 
DAVID TOMS:  I got three tournaments this fall, and other than that, I'm just going to stay with my family and do some hunting and just relax.  
 
Q.  What kind of hunting?
 
DAVID TOMS: Duck hunting is the only hunting I do, and it's fun and I enjoy doing it. 
 
Q.  How about the speed of the putt?
 
DAVID TOMS:  I had a similar putt from the right-hand side before, I knew it was quick and I was trying to get the right speed and I hit it too easy.  The worst thing you want to do is 3-putt because if Mike misses, you're still alive:  I wanted to hit it down there at the right speed and, unfortunately, I didn't hit it hard enough.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT