BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 20, 2000
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 DAVID TOMS: Well, the game is in pretty good shape. I'm still not driving the ball like
I'd like to. I don't know if I'm still rusty from the winter or not, but I played well
today on the front side, and just didn't make any putts at all. And I turned at 2-under
par, and then I birdied -- what did I birdie? 12, I hit a 7-iron, probably a couple feet
from the hole. And then I hit it out of bounds, left, on No. 13, the par 5. So I've got a
hole I can almost reach it in 2, an easy birdie hole, and I made double-bogey -- kind of
slowed me down but I came back with a birdie on the next hole, so nice comeback there. And
then birdied 18.  
 
Q. You must have been ticked off about the double-bogey?
 
 DAVID TOMS: Yeah, it was just I hit a bad shot. One of my amateur partners said,
"I wish could I trade my par for your double." It wasn't the first time, and it
won't be the last. I just lost my train of thought on it and put it out of bounds. Those
things happen, especially in a 90-hole tournament, something like that is going to happen,
and I hope that's the only time it does this week. 
 
Q. You mentioned your amateur playing partners. Can you talk a little bit about that?
Does it help you focus more or different? 
 
 DAVID TOMS: Well, you meet some interesting people. And the last two days, I've had a
couple of great groups to play with, a lot of conversation. Some groups -- you play with
guys that don't talk much, kind of stay out of your way. But I've enjoyed the two groups
I've had this week, and I think it's shown in the way I've played. But, you know, it's a
different atmosphere than normal, obviously, the Pro-Am side of it. But like I said, if
you get along well with the amateurs you play with -- sometimes you tend to -- you have a
good time out there, and you talk to them a lot, and it gives you something to do in
between shots where a lot of times, if we're playing with a couple of pros and you're not
talking too much, your minds is all over the place in between shots. Sometimes it's better
to get away from it a little bit walking down the fairway. 
 
Q. Yesterday, you talked about how you were going to spend some time with your coach,
and, you know, that you weren't really thinking swing thoughts and things like that. You
don't know if your game is rusty or not but you're 12-under par, leading?
 
 DAVID TOMS: Well, fortunately yesterday, I made two eagles, so that helped to get to
9-under par. And then today, I played -- I played well, other than the tee ball -- iron
shots, I've had a lot of good birdie putts, and I think that's why I've scored well so
far. And I think if I can get the driver in play a little bit better the next three days,
then maybe come Sunday, I'll be right in the hunt.  
 
Q. When you're playing in a tournament on a multi-course tournament like this one, at
the beginning of the week do you look at your draw and say, "I've got Indian Wells
this day, I've got Bermuda this day, starting at the toughest course," or do you just
try and keep it focused on the 18 of the day? 
 
 DAVID TOMS: With the weather like it's been, I would not say any of the courses are
difficult. I think Indian Wells, as long as you keep it in play -- I mean, Indian Wells,
you can make a big number quick, because it's tight. If you can keep it in play there, it
obviously plays easier because of some the greens are short, and the greens are pretty
flat, and you've got some par 5s that you can reach in 2. Where the other courses, the par
5s are a little bit longer. I'm trying to think, other than the 18th hole on this golf
course, there's not a par 5 that I can reach on this course. So that makes the golf course
play a couple of shots harder than it might for some other players that are longer
hitters. So I've never played extremely well on this golf course, and maybe I can figure
it out come Sunday. 
 
Q. Has your life changed appreciably after your performance last year? Do people
recognize you? Do opportunities that you would not have had before --?
 
 DAVID TOMS: Yes, probably a few. I was shocked over the winter and late in the fall how
many people I would run into at the airport and who would say, "Great playing this
year." I had no clue who they were, but they obviously knew who I was. Little things
like that have been different. But my hometown, I guess, you know everybody has always
known me, that I can play golf well, and everybody knows who you are. Maybe I'm treated a
little bit different outside my particular region that I live in. But as far as
opportunities outside, you know, I've had a few, but nothing tremendous or, you know, no
endorsement deals that you're going to read about in the newspaper or anything like that.
I think if I keep getting better, maybe those things will come.  
 
Q. You mentioned hitting some good putts yesterday you said for a 63, your putting
wasn't that great. Was it better today?
 
 DAVID TOMS: No, it really wasn't. I struggled with reading the putts. I don't know if
it's Indio or what it is, but the ball is just not rolling like I think. You know, I'm
totally misreading putts. When I think it's going to go left it might go right. I'm having
trouble with it. I don't know if -- I don't know what I'm going to do on Sunday here. Even
in the practice round on this golf course, I had trouble. You know, I just didn't see the
putts like I normally do. Maybe I'll look up on Sunday and I'll push a couple or pull a
couple and they will go in when I don't expect them to. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT