U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 29, 2019
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVID TOMS: I was just in between clubs I felt like all day.  I had a lot of numbers where I was either trying to add or subtract a little bit instead of just making good driving-range-type swings, either cutting it into the wind or trying to draw it to get back or things like that, and I just didn't execute.
And luckily I hit a couple of great pitch shots around the back nine and I hung in there to where if I could shoot a really low round tomorrow like I did the first day, you never know, I have a chance.
Q. You talked about right away on 2 you noticed that the conditions had changed from the first couple of round.  How did that affect the way you approached those approach shots the rest of the day knowing that the greens were firming up?
DAVID TOMS: Well, when you had a short club or at least a 9, 8, something like that, you wanted to try to attack because there were some hard holes out there too, and some of the pins were in areas where its was tough to get to, where if you land it short, the ball seemed to come back down; if you fly it to the hole, it was going to bounce beyond.
And I just didn't do a very good job of it.  In fact, my caddie said, hey, you're getting ahead of yourself a little bit.  Let's just take our time and try to hit the shots.
Even the last hole, I was 200 yards, I was trying to hit a 6-iron at an almost 4-iron yardage because of the wind and everything.  I just swung at it too hard, came out of it and hit it in the bunker.
Q. What Steve is doing is pretty remarkable.  He's throwing together some incredible rounds.  But threw the 62 out there on Thursday.  What do you think it might take tomorrow?
DAVID TOMS: Well, you know, I played with Steve the final round at Traditions, and he never backed up at all.  Just kept going forward and separated himself from the field.  I expect him to probably do the same thing tomorrow.  But we're going to go play and do the best we can, see if we can get off to a good start and put some pressure on him.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT