SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 7, 2014
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Let's talk about the first two days.   It's really been a pleasure following you.   You've really had it going.   What are you most proud of the first two days?  
DAVID TOMS:   Not making a bogey.   I had plenty of opportunities to make a bogey.   I missed a couple greens and hit good chips.   I ran a couple of long putts past six, eight, ten feet and made the come‑backer.   Just hanging in there and being patient is what I'm most proud of the first two days.  
   
 Q.   I've always thought you were one of the best putters in the world.   Where are you at right now?  
DAVID TOMS:   Yeah, I feel pretty good about it.   Right now it's hard to tell where the grain is sometimes with the pigment on the greens.   In the middle of the summer you can see by the color, so right now I'm really having to pay attention to that and get the speed right.  
   
 Q.   You've played a lot of golf in this part of the country.   Do you like this place?  
DAVID TOMS:   Yeah, I do.   I played here as a junior golfer.   I played here as a college golfer.   I haven't obviously played this redo of the golf course.   I was anxious to get here and see what it was all about, and I think there's some nice changes, and obviously the Bermuda greens add something to the golf course where you have to really pick your spots.   It's been good so far for me.  
   
 Q.   I know you're excited about playing here this week and a chance to win, but you've got that LSU game, too.   Are you going to try to get to the game?  
DAVID TOMS:   Well, I had great intentions to do that, but after today I guess I might have too late of a tee time tomorrow to try to do that.   Who knows, I'm going to go through logistics this afternoon and see if there's a possibility to get there, because I think it's going to be a great atmosphere.   Win or lose, it should be a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   It's been a while since you've won, but you've done it so many times, this has got to excite you?  
DAVID TOMS:   Well, just to have that opportunity, just to play well is what excites me.   You never know, when you hang around on the leaderboard a little bit, every once in a while you're able to get one, so that's the plan is just to get there as much as I possibly can, and you never know when it'll be my week.   
   
 Q.   You have not made a bogey in two rounds, correct?  
DAVID TOMS:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   And I heard you talking about scrambling a little bit.   
DAVID TOMS:   You know, I don't know.   I'm keeping the ball in play off the tee, which is a big deal.   Obviously on a golf course like this, it's pretty tight.   I've been real patient with my iron shots.   When I have a good number and feel good about the club and where the pin is, I'm pretty aggressive, but when I'm in between clubs or the pin is in a spot where I don't feel good, then I'm backing off and hitting to the middle of the green and just taking my two‑putt and getting out.   I think having a pretty good game plan, not necessarily before I start but once you're into the round and really picking the spots to be aggressive.  
   
 Q.   Obviously it started out kind of cold.   Does that affect you or do you like that?   
DAVID TOMS:   I'm not a big cold weather guy at all.   I had the gloves and hand warmers, two sweaters on, a jacket, rain pants.   We were lucky this morning that we didn't have much wind when we teed off, because it would have been awfully cold.   It warmed up pretty quick when the sun came out, and it was more about just really being awake.   When you're teeing off at 7:15 in the morning, you have a 4:30 wake‑up call, that's an early morning, dew on the ground and chilly, and we were very patient, and the whole group was, actually, when we teed off.   Everybody in our group seemed like we were very patient on the golf course and just let it come to us.  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on playing in that group, three guys you've played a lot of golf with, three former major winners all together?  
DAVID TOMS:   Well, the thing is we were all very comfortable playing in our group.   We probably had more conversation than I've had in a long time, just mostly small talk, but we have a lot in common, have played a lot of golf together, all three of us.   We had a good time.   
I think we were talking so much the middle of the round they put us on the clock.   We were a hole behind.   We kind of had to do our own thing for a little while and get back into the flow of playing the round, and we were able to do that within a couple holes.  
   
 Q.   Having seen the course two days in a row, how is it holding up out there?  
DAVID TOMS:   It's good.   Seems like it's drying out a little bit after the rain, and so it was playing nice.   Greens were receptive, but I'd like for it to firm up a little bit more, let the fairways shake out a little bit.   That would be pretty nice.   There's some pretty long holes out there, for me anyway.   I wouldn't mind a little more roll off the tee.   
   
 Q.   Thoughts on this tournament and your history here.   
DAVID TOMS:   I played in the pro‑am this week with some of the Sanderson folks, and they seemed to be enjoying their association with the tournament, and as long as you can have a good sponsor like that, seems like everything goes well.   It seems to be the turnout is a little bit better maybe here at the Country Club.   There have been a few people out watching our group play both days, so that was nice.   It seems like a pretty good move so far.   I know yesterday when we came up at the finish there were quite a few members out here on the back patio, asking about what we thought about the golf course and everything, so it seems like maybe there's a little bit of buzz here that hasn't been here the last few years.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT