U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 29, 2019
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Kind of an uneventful day?  
DAVID TOMS: Well, in my case, there was a lot going on.  It just wasn't very good golf.  I was proud of the way I hung in there, got the ball up-and-down quite a few times today.  Just iron shots were -- I felt like I was in between clubs all day and I was either trying to hit one too hard, too easy, work it one way or the other, and I just never pulled off the shots.   
A couple times I hit good shots and I just mis-clubbed.  It was one of those things, you can start pressing a little bit.  Maybe I was doing that because I saw what Steve was doing.  But it's the kind of golf course where you've really got to just take it as it comes and not be too aggressive.   
That's the thing about tomorrow.  I'm going to be pretty far back, so I'll have to be aggressive early, and hopefully I'm in position to do that, have some good numbers so I can try to get the ball close and make some birdies early.   
 Q.  You had a low number first round, so you know you can do it.  
DAVID TOMS: Yeah, that helps.  The golf course is definitely playing harder.  Greens were baked out a little bit today.  It was starting to bounce.  It'll be tough to shoot a low number, but I know I can do it on this golf course.  It's just a matter of going out there and giving myself enough opportunities to shoot a low score.   
 Q.  What was your thought about playing on the golf course today than the day previous before?  
DAVID TOMS: Well, we had a different wind direction today from the other day, so it really didn't make that big of a difference, it just made you think a little bit more and played some of the shots a little bit differently.  The greens were baked out a little bit, and downhill putts definitely had a little more speed to them.   
Overall it's just one of those courses where you've got to get it in the fairway to give yourself a chance at all, and maybe tomorrow the irons will be a little bit better and I'll shoot a better score.   
 Q.  Speaking of tomorrow, what's the mindset you're going to have going into the final day?  
DAVID TOMS: Well, obviously play the best you can and hang in there.  If the day is not going that great, you never know what can happen.  But for our case, everybody that's close to Steve, and we're still pretty far back, so we've got to hope that we shoot a low number or get off to a good start and he gives a couple back to at least make him think about it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT