MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 14, 2013
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DAVID TOMS:   It was good, a good day.   I just played really well, hit a lot of really good iron shots, and obviously I had a little snafu over there on No.10 and recovered well.   Other than that it was a pretty solid day.

Q.   Was it a double‑cross?
DAVID TOMS:   You know, I was watching this lady walk up, and I kept waiting for her to stop and stop, and she finally stopped, and I guess I was still looking at her over there, and that'll show you what your mind does.   I was still looking, I hit it straight at her.   I was trying to hook it around the corner but not start it in the corner.

Q.   How about that 4, though?   Rory was over there and made 7. 
DAVID TOMS:   Yeah, I guess he followed and paid a lot for that. 
I hit a really good shot and an unbelievable third shot. 

Q.   Tell me about 16.   Were you just juiced on that one a little bit?
DAVID TOMS:   16, I hit just half a club too much.   I mean, we were always in between clubs and I think Scotty didn't want me swinging hit at a 7‑iron, so I kind of just tried to hold a 6.   If it hands three feet left of where it landed, it's still going to be good.   It's just one of those things, I hit two really good putts and walked away with a three‑putt.

Q.   And 14, almost jarred it there.   Obviously that was where you were playing into the slope?
DAVID TOMS:   Yeah, that's exactly right.   I had to be lucky there, I had to hit right into the top of the slope, and we knew that, but I figured I had to hit it perfect to get it to land right there, and I did.   It was a very good shot.

Q.   It's one round, but how encouraging is a round like this?
DAVID TOMS:   Well, considering the way I've been playing it's very encouraging.   I needed something like this to give me a little confidence moving forward, and I was pretty down on my game, and I felt like I was close to playing well but it didn't matter.   It's just something every round would mess it up, and today I was determined to play better, and I followed my game plan not really shooting at the flags too much except for when I felt like I could get to it, and it paid off.

Q.   When you get rolling there on the back nine, does top 12 start entering your mind at all?
DAVID TOMS:   No, I really didn't think about it.   I was trying to play the best I could.   You can't get ahead of yourself out there, and I was just trying to‑‑ it was unfortunate I was in between clubs there an 18, and I just didn't hit it very solid. 

Q.   You're pretty close right now to top 12. 
DAVID TOMS:   Really?   They told us what we were on 12 green that it was going to rain in 30 minutes, so maybe the golf gods will move in here and blow a little rain in and we'll see what happens.

Q.   Next week, what is going on with that?
DAVID TOMS:   Next week I forgot to commit.

Q.   Is that normally something you do or does‑‑
DAVID TOMS:   No, I do that.   It's 100 percent on me.   I had no idea until the transportation lady asked me this morning if I was driving my car to Hilton Head, and I said yes, and she said, well, you're not in the field, and I'm like, oh, no, and then I checked the computer and I didn't commit.   I had no idea.   I had a hotel reservation and everything.   I haven't done that in 20 years, so I don't know. 

Q.   Could you be an alternate?
DAVID TOMS:   No, that's Tour policy.   That's all right, I'll go home and watch Carter play a couple of tournaments, so I'll be all right.

Q.   Could you even try and Monday qualify if that's the case?
DAVID TOMS:   I don't think so, but I mean, maybe it's meant to be that‑‑ it's just something I don't do.   I don't even know‑‑ I don't know how it slipped, I really don't, but it's totally on me.

Q.   It was a tournament you were looking‑‑
DAVID TOMS:   Yeah, I was going to go play.   I look forward to it.   It's a good course for me.   I haven't been there much over the years, and I was looking forward to it.   But that's okay, I'll get some rest and be ready for New Orleans. 

Q.   Could you talk about having a little more confidence going forward after today?
DAVID TOMS:   Yeah, I think my body needs to rest.   I've been struggling with my back the last couple weeks and spent a lot of time in the therapy van, and probably a week off will do me some good. 

Q.   And the putter, it's not like you drained a bunch of 20‑footers but you were solid‑‑
DAVID TOMS:   My speed was great today, which the past few days it's been a little tough, but my speed was wonderful, and that was really a key to the round. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT