THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
October 21, 2012
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   David, a 63 that begins with a bogey at the first.   Very well done.
DAVID TOMS:   Yeah, I played really solid today.   I missed the first three greens and was 1‑over par and thought it was just going to be one of those Sundays where I wasn't going to be able to do anything.   And obviously I started hitting good shots.   Started putting a little bit better than I did yesterday, and before you know it I got on a little roll there on the Back 9 and had a good day.

Q.   When did you know that Tommy had put the number up that he had put up and what you had to go after?
DAVID TOMS:   I think we were on 13 and Devin said something about it, and at that point I was just trying to hit the fairway, trying to hit the green, trying to make a putt.   That's a pretty low round, and certainly it's great golf.

Q.   But you make the one at 13, you make the one at 15.   He holed out from that bunker about the same spot, by the way, and you almost did.   You had the right line.   When you got to 16 and made it close there, was that when you started thinking, okay?
DAVID TOMS:   Yeah, I knew if I birdied my last two holes I could at least tie him, and I birdied 17.   I hit my worst drive of the week on 18.   That's the way it goes.   You gotta get ahead of yourself and you forget about trying to make one shot at a time.   I was thinking about what kind of putt I was going to have before I ever hit the fairway, so you get ahead of yourself and that's what happens.

Q.   Terrific week, though.   Is this your last week of the year?
DAVID TOMS:   Last week of the year, yeah.   Hanging them up for a little while, other than a couple outings here or there and enjoy the holidays.

Q.   When does hunting season begin?
DAVID TOMS:   Not soon enough.   Here in about ‑‑ I guess it's about four weeks away, so I'm looking forward to it.

Q.   Bet there will be a football game Saturday you'll be watching?
DAVID TOMS:   Absolutely.

Q.   Here with David Toms.   It looked like he would end his year potentially in a playoff there on 18, but tell me about before.   Tell me about what kind of a charge Tommy Gainey put into this golf tournament and how he changed it from your perspective?
DAVID TOMS:   Well, I saw that he was playing well early.   I saw that I guess when I was on nine green, and by the time I got to 13 tee, Gavin said he was like 16 under and I was like, wow, that's some kind of golf.   And then we were trying to figure out how many under he was for the day, because I wasn't sure where he started.   Tommy /TKPWAES I don't know what group was, what, nine or 10‑under.   So that's great playing, and obviously he feels pretty at home around these parts of the country, and he showed it today.   He played great.

Q.   How did it affect you?
DAVID TOMS:   Well, it just made me feel like I had to be aggressive coming in.   I was 11 under when I saw that he was 16 under on 13 tee, and I just felt like, hey, make some birdies.   You never know.   I thought maybe 15 I could sneak in an eagle.   I knew it was playing down wind.   So you just never know.   So I just played golf and I got hot and had a chance going into the last hole.

Q.   On 18 that was obviously a drive you didn't want?
DAVID TOMS:   Yeah.

Q.   That said, how did you get yourself in a position where you at least gave yourself a chance?
DAVID TOMS:   Well, like I said, it was a bad drive.   It was the worst one of the week so far, been hitting the fairway all week.   I got ahead of myself.   I started thinking about what kind of putt I was going to have before I hit the first two shots and I hit it on the hill, came out of it and hit it in the right bunker.   I was lucky it hit the bunker or it would have been in the hazards.   From there it was just get it somewhere around the green, and Billy Andrade was saying on the last it would be a great time for a chip‑in and I almost did that, so it was fun.

Q.   Great way to end your year.   May see you in Palm Springs next year.   Just real quick, how good does it feel to end the season on a high note like this?
DAVID TOMS:   Well, I mean I wasn't expecting much.   I'd just taken off seven weeks, and I wasn't expecting much at all, but I came here, I love it here in Sea Island, like the golf course a lot.   And I felt like I could play well.   I played well here two years ago, and so I knew I could play well.
But you just never know.   You go through the motions, play your practice rounds.   You do everything, play the pro am.   You don't know what's going to happen.   And to get in contention after two days, and disappointed on Saturday the way I played, but to come back today and give myself a chance, that's really all I could ask for in a week where I didn't really have any expectations at all. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT