THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
October 18, 2012
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   David, been a while since you've played out here, but obviously the game not very rusty.
DAVID TOMS:   I've had enough outings and casual golf to where my clubs didn't feel like a sledgehammer when I got here this week.   I've been playing a little bit, practicing a little bit.   It's enough competition, so it's obviously nice to get off to a good start.

Q.   Parred the first six, but then around the turn you made three birdies?
DAVID TOMS:   Yeah, yeah.   That got me going, birdieing 17, 18.   I gave one back, I guess with a 3‑putt.   Other than that, it was just a good solid day.   I kept the ball in play, hit a lot of greens, and when I needed to get a couple of good up‑and‑downs I did.

Q.   I thought one of your great shots was at five.   Your ball was about halfway down into the turf.
DAVID TOMS:   Yeah.   I wasn't sure if it was embedded there or not, so I had to put it back.   And I took a little more club because I knew I couldn't hit it real solid.   And it came off perfect and I left it up there about four feet, so it was a good shot.

Q.   Then the next to the last hole, a little tiger kitty runs across the back green.   That is no relation to Mike?
DAVID TOMS:   No.   No relation at all.   I think Mike would have that for breakfast.   That was interesting to see that.   It didn't know where to go with all the people around.

Q.   You're having fun.   Here toward the end of the year, are you working on anything special?
DAVID TOMS:   Yeah, this is the last event for me for the year, and haven't played in a while.   I love Sea Island.   I wanted to come here and enjoy my week, and if I play well, it's a bonus.

Q.   David Toms, great round on this day, on what's going to be your swan song for the year.   Tell me about obviously you want to play well here, but overall what your season has been like in your estimation.
DAVID TOMS:   Up and down.   Obviously didn't win a golf tournament, so that was disappointing.   I had some good finishes, took a lot of time off, two separate occasions and tried to ‑‑ I've got a son that's a freshman in high school now, so it's kind of nice to be home.   And then a daughter that's in second grade.   So we have a lot of activities going on. 
I'm building a golf academy at home right now, so I'm clearing the land and trying to get that going.   There's a lot of distractions away from golf.   Even though I've been home for seven weeks, I had a few outings and I've been playing a little casual golf.   So I wouldn't say I was totally prepared to come here and play well, but at least I've touched the clubs a little bit lately.

Q.   Let me ask you about another possible distraction.   Davis Love in his press conference was mentioning your name as a possible Ryder Cup captain for the next time.   What are your thoughts on what your future might hold in terms of that?
DAVID TOMS:   I would hope at some point in time I would get that opportunity.   You know, it's an event that I've played in a few times.   I think it's the best event in golf, and to be able to captain a U. S. team and somehow get a victory, that would certainly be one of the highlights of my career, if not the highlight of my career.

Q.   Do you anticipate it?
DAVID TOMS:   I have no idea.   You know, I haven't really been in the discussion.   I haven't talked to anyone with the PGA of America.   I think they wanted to regroup a little bit after the event this year and make a decision.   So if I get that opportunity, I would welcome it and enjoy the challenge.

Q.   All right, David.   Thanks for joining us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT