WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 3, 2012
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   3‑under par today, nice play.   Just get some comments on your round. 
DAVID TOMS:   It was one of those days where I wish I would have putted a little bit better.   One of the better ball‑striking rounds I've had in a while, kept the ball in the fairway for the most part and hit a lot of solid iron shots and didn't have the putter rolling today. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
DAVID TOMS:   Well, just in general one of the better‑‑ on a tough golf course, it was one of the better ones I've had all year, tee to green anyway.

Q.   When I saw you at the U.S. Open, you had a hip situation.   Did it turn into a back situation or is it all related?
DAVID TOMS:   No, I think it's all related.   I still need to go see a specialist.   I've had a couple different opinions on my MRI, so something I probably have to take care of in the off‑season.

Q.   What was the general consensus?
DAVID TOMS:   Well, one, it was like a chronic bursitis.   I don't really even know what it's called.   That's one of them.   I had another opinion that said I had a torn labrum, which I don't think I have because I don't have that much pain and I can still move pretty good.   I'm not sure.   I still have some discomfort quite a bit from time to time, so something I'll have to get looked at.

Q.   How do you accommodate that with your golf swing?
DAVID TOMS:   Really it being on my right side, it doesn't really affect me during the swing.   What it does is kind of whacks my back out from time to time, I think.   They think that's what the problem is, kind of giving to that right hip.   At 45, you really don't want to get cut on if you don't have to.   I tend to make it around the golf course okay, especially when I pace myself during the week and during the year.   Right now I'm just going to go with it.

Q.   What exactly set it off?
DAVID TOMS:   I think I said I was tying my shoes.   I was bending over in my closet.   You know, whatever.   It is what it is.   It usually happens three or four times for me every year.   Unfortunately it kept me out for a little while, but I needed a break probably in a way from the game.   I wasn't quite enjoying it the way I should have and probably put too much pressure on myself to perform at that time before when I was off. 
It feels good to be back again and competing, and I feel pretty healthy, and I'm happy with where my golf swing is.

Q.   With the PGA Championship as important as it is to you, were you really trying to get back before then? 
DAVID TOMS:   Yeah.   You know, obviously it's a tournament that's pretty dear to me.   I had plans all along to play this week, and I'm hoping to play six weeks in a row because I'm going to go to Greensboro.   Obviously I have to pace myself, probably not beat as many balls, but that's okay.   Hopefully I'll play well through that stretch.

Q.   When is the last time you did that, six in a row?
DAVID TOMS:   I couldn't tell you.   It's been a long time, though.

Q.   Almost nobody does that, even younger guys.   That's a tough deal. 
DAVID TOMS:   Yeah, it is, but we have a little bit of a break when we have that Friday start, so it's almost not really a week off, but it's a few days so you can relax and you don't really have to grind if you don't want to.   So that's nice.   And like I said, you just kind of have to pace yourself.

Q.   Why no break?   I know there's not a lot of breaks to have had in this stretch run, but why not five out of six?
DAVID TOMS:   Because I'm playing Greensboro.   I like the tournament.   I've played well there.   I've got a lot of friends in that area, a couple of guys that run the golf tournament that are very good, close friends of mine, and I want to go there to support that event.   That's really how it adds up to six in a row.   That sixth one would be the BMW, so hopefully I get into that tournament.   If I do that'll be six in a row.

Q.   So some of that might be FedExCup related?
DAVID TOMS:   Absolutely, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT