U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2012
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Well it was a little better today for you?
DAVID TOMS:   Yeah, it was a real solid round of golf.   Started off a little shaky but had a couple of nice recoveries and started hitting the ball a lot better and just real solid.   A lot of fairway, a lot of greens, especially the back nine.   I putting great.   I guess we made the golf course look a little easier than how we played yesterday. 

Q.   How did it play today compared to yesterday?
DAVID TOMS:   (No Audio) They didn't seem to get away from you on your lag putts, so I would say overall played a little bit easier. 

Q.   What are the scoring chances coming in?
DAVID TOMS:   Scoring chances coming in?   Nine, if you can get it in the fairway, 10 is the same way.   Let's see, 15 is pretty short shot, 16 obviously with the tee moved up, 17.   18 is just really hard to get close to that pin. 
If you risk getting close to the pin you risk hitting in the front bunker like I did.   So I wouldn't really consider that a birdie hole with the pressure that somebody will be facing. 

Q.   What do you take away from Michael's game watching him play?
DAVID TOMS:   Just short game was incredible.   He's got plenty of length to play out here for a long time, and he's got his demeanor on the golf course is fantastic.   So seems to be having fun and in control of his emotions and he played great today. 

Q.   You're a veteran of a lot of these, which he is not, can you appreciate what he's probably experienced with this run that he's had?
DAVID TOMS:   Yeah, I think that the first round and having to play with that the next day, that was probably very difficult.   I know it was difficult for me yesterday, so you battle a lot of emotions and put a lot of pressure on yourself to keep up.   And it seems like we both went out there today kind of a little freer attitude, really, because we didn't feel like we had a chance and we both went out and played well. 
And the only time where I felt like he might have got a little bit nervous was probably on the putt on 17, because he had it straight up the hill from about five feet and his speed had been perfect all day and he kind of hammered it through the break.   So that was probably‑‑ I'm sure that was a little bit of nerves there.

Q.   What do you take away from the week?   Obviously last year, Colonial, Players, great finish, here.   You're playing very well?
DAVID TOMS:   Not the way I played the first two days, but the way I came back today after what happened yesterday, kind of could have thrown in the towel and shot another five or 6‑over today and I was determined to play as well as I could whatever that was and I got into the round and was playing real solid and to shoot under par was a bonus. 

Q.   This wasn't so much a chase as it was wait to go see what others would do.   Do you ramp it up or do you just play steady in a situation like this?
DAVID TOMS:   I don't think you can ever go for it on a golf course like this or a U.S. Open period.   You might have a shot where you play a little bit aggressive, but I think you go with the mindset that you try to make par on every hole, take the birdies where you can and try to avoid double. 
I think that's the best way to play a U.S. Open.   So as far as trying a little harder or attacking a little more.   I just don't think you can play like that.

Q.   What do you remember about Lytham?
DAVID TOMS:   Not a whole lot.   Just a lot of bunkers that you want to stay out of.   There's a bunch of bunkers there. 

Q.   How will you get ready for that?
DAVID TOMS:   Probably take some time off and get ready for travel.   So I don't know.   I don't know what my schedule is going forward I was actually planning on taking an extended vacation I'm not sure now, I feel a little bit better about my game and I'm not sure what the immediate future is yet.

Q.   You've been around Jim Furyk for long time together.   What is it about him that makes him a good U.S. Open player, maybe particularly for here and then ‑‑
DAVID TOMS:   Just very determined player.   Probably doesn't get as much credit as he deserves for his accomplishments that he's had over the years and as well as he's played.   And for a long time. 
I think he's determined, he never gives in to the golf course.   The way you have to play is you have to be there on every shot, and that's always what Jim Furyk does, no matter what the golf tournament, so obviously he's suited for this one. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT