U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2012
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I know it wasn't your best day, but talk about maybe the golf course. 
DAVID TOMS:   It just got really firm.   I think that was part of my problem today, I kept trying to stretch my iron shots to be able to keep from hitting them over the greens.   So every time I was in between clubs I always hit the shorter one to try to hit it hard and it didn't work out too well. 
So the golf course was, the best word for it was just firm, all day long.   Every where around it.   Greens were pretty slick, tough chipping, tough getting the ball close to the pin, and I think most of the good scores you saw were probably a little bit earlier than the leaders. 

Q.   Probably be five or six back, do you still feel like you're maybe in range depending?
DAVID TOMS:   You just don't know.   I obviously have to go out and shoot my best round of the week.   But stranger things have happened.   Still feel okay about my game, it's just I got off to such a bad start today it was hard to recover on this golf course. 

Q.   How was the LSU pairing?
DAVID TOMS:   It was fun.   And then John made a hole‑in‑one.   That's something he'll remember.   He'll remember that forever.   So it was fun for both of us.   I wish we could have played a little better for each other, but that's how it goes.

Q.   But, with an ace?
DAVID TOMS:   Well that's consolation to a couple bad rounds, an ace.

Q.   There was only been two aces The Olympic Club and the other one was in the 13th hole in the third round?
DAVID TOMS:   That was the first one he ever had too.

Q.   You actually came back to congratulate him, you were already walking. 
DAVID TOMS:   I had my hands up in the air.   I don't know if he could see it because I was probably in front of him watching his ball.   And the crowd was going nuts.   And it was pretty cool, I was pretty happy for them. 

Q.   Did you hear any LSU cheers?
DAVID TOMS:   A bunch of them.   We heard about 20 in the first two holes and we lost count after that. 

Q.   You talked about the conditions and being in between clubs, and the condition of the course.   Did it catch you by surprise?
DAVID TOMS:   Not at all.   Not at all.   Like I said, that was just part of it.   It wasn't one of those days when everything, where you feel like you got the right club every time and it just fits well and things are easy.   Today it was a struggle. 
I tried to stretch my 6‑iron on the first hole and hit a bad shot and it seemed like almost every hole I was trying to do that.   And just trying to play to keep from hitting it over greens.   And it didn't work out too well for me.

Q.   Is it, do you try not to overcompensate tomorrow by ‑‑
DAVID TOMS:   Well you, hopefully I'll learn from that.   And right now I can't swing at the ball real hard with my irons, I'm not hitting good shots when I do that.   I need to take a little off and play that way.   And if I can't get close to the pin I'll take a long putt.   But I have to hit more greens to have a chance. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT