U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2012
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your thoughts just on the round and your position? 
DAVID TOMS:   Just a solid day of golf.   Obviously I didn't get off to the start I wanted to, but I'm sure a lot of guys played the first six a couple over par, so that's what I did.   I just hung in there. 
I missed a couple fairways here and there, but for the most part I was in play.   And I hit some good shots from the rough controlling my distance out of the rough which is key to be able to make your pars when you don't hit the great tee ball.   So I did that and just hit the middle of the greens all day long when I couldn't attack and rolled my putter pretty well. 

Q.   Is there something about this course setup that you think really suits your style of play?
DAVID TOMS:   It's just fair and it's firm.   I'm not so far behind when the ball's chasing out off the tee and I know that.   So my attitude is pretty good starting the round to know that I don't have to bomb it to play the golf course, which sometimes that is the case.   And it's not this week. 
I'm pretty confident that I can play the golf course well, but you still have to go out and execute, and I've done that for a couple days.

Q.   Nobody says that you used the word unfair about this golf course, but it is difficult?
DAVID TOMS:   Padraig and I talked about that numerous times today about the golf course and how difficult it was, but at the same time it's fair.   It will make you do some crazy things trying to hit shots to a front pin from 220 yards that you come up 30 or 40 yards short of the green but you know if you land it on the green you're going to be chipping from the back.   So things like that will make you look kind of silly sometimes, but it is a fair test. 

Q.   Do you relish the fact that you're going out on a Saturday with a share of the lead?
DAVID TOMS:   I get to sleep in a little bit, which is always nice. 
It just means that I played well for a couple days and that's really all it means.   I'm in good position and certainly right where I want to be.   But I still have to go out there and play great golf this weekend to have a chance.

Q.   For those that are behind, like Phil was talking and making the cut at 7‑over, shooting a 5‑ or 6‑under, how difficult is it for guys, even like Padraig, for instance, being 4‑over to make up ground the way this is apt to be over the weekend?
DAVID TOMS:   It really depend on what the guys that have played well so far, what they do.   You go out in a little bit softer conditions in the morning and the greens probably a little bit better and go out and shoot a few under par or couple under par and then see how the leaders do in the afternoon. 
The golf course gets tougher and tougher as the day goes on.   I can tell you that it was much more difficult this afternoon than when we played yesterday morning.   So they have the benefit of that.   The guys that just made the cut, so if they can shoot a good number tomorrow they will get right back in it. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
DAVID TOMS:   As far as those guys, I mean whoever wins this golf tournament's going to be a great champion, somebody that's probably won events before, that can handle the emotions and can handle the adversity in a U.S. Open, and somebody with experience.   And at least that's what think.   You never know.   String things can happen, but I would think that you would see a lot of that on the leaderboard come late Sunday. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
DAVID TOMS:   I don't see why not.   I have to drive the ball a little bit better over the weekend than I did the first two days, but can I do that.   It's usually one of my strengths.   So I think I can do that.   And the golf course is not playing too long.   The only issue is maybe having enough spin to get to some of the pins when it firms up.   But then I'll have to just play away from them and try to use my putter to my advantage. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT