U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2012
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   With how it looked this morning you probably would have been really happy with a 1‑under 69. 
DAVID TOMS:   As cold as it was early on the range this morning, putting everything I had on, certainly I would take anything.   Even par, really.   Up‑and‑down game was good today.   Very, very solid.   I had a lot of great bunker shots. 
Other than a little short putt I missed at I guess No. 6, for the most part my game was pretty solid today. 

Q.   Typical round where you need the patience to get around on this golf course?
DAVID TOMS:   Yeah, you have to.   It starts every tee shot.   It's very difficult to get it in the fairway.   So it makes you concentrate starting with the tee shot.   And then where do you want to hit your second shot to be able to bounce it in.   Everything's firming up around the edges.   And there's certain areas that you can't, it would be very difficult to get up‑and‑down.   So you're always thinking, from the fairway, not only where you want to hit it, but where is the miss. 
So that's the way I played today and fortunately my short game was in pretty good shape and I got a nice round out it have.

Q.   Tiger thought the course sped up quite a bit today compared to the practice rounds.   Was that your sense?
DAVID TOMS:   Yeah, we all commented on that out there today.   That we felt like the golf course had definitely firmed up considerably, which is good for me.   A long wet golf course is not good for me, with deep rough. 
So the harder it is to get the ball in the fairway, the more roll that we can get, the better off I'm going to be.   Not saying I'm going to hit the fairways, but still I'm not so far behind when you can get some roll. 

Q.   First six holes live up to the billing?
DAVID TOMS:   They were just very, very difficult.   Some of the toughest holes to get the ball in the fairway and then from there you have some pretty long shots to sloped greens and it's just tough.   You had scoring opportunities on the back side the way they had the golf course setup today.   There was opportunities to get shots back if you could hit the shots and stay away from trouble. 
The problem was that once you made a birdie to get a shot back it's not giving another one away after that, so a lot of tough holes out there.

Q.   What's the longest club you had in today?
DAVID TOMS:   What?   Ask that again.   The longest club? 

Q.   That you hit into a par‑4 today. 
DAVID TOMS:   Longest club in a par‑4?   What was it?   I didn't have a ‑‑ I didn't have a wood in today.   Which I did in the practice rounds, quite a few times.   Come to think of it. 
I might have had a wood into the fifth hole today.   I missed the fairway, if I was in the fairway, maybe. 
But for the most part it was manageable.   What I'm saying is the golf course played short enough to where you could score if you could get the ball in the fairway.   And that was the most difficult thing. 

Q.   What did you could on 1?   Who you did you play that?
DAVID TOMS:   I hit a driver and 8‑iron to about 25 feet short.   They had the tee moved up today, which was nice.   Which was very nice.   I was back there hitting 5 or 6‑iron, 4, 5 or 6‑iron in the practice rounds.

Q.   What's the mindset going into tomorrow now?
DAVID TOMS:   You really just have to concentrate, give it your all on every shot and never give in to the golf course, because it will punish you if your attitude is not good, if your concentration is not good, there's just too many hard shots out there to really ever give in to it and not be there. 
So that's the key for me is just, no matter what kind of start I get off to, whether it's good or bad, no matter if the ball's going left or going right, you still got to go down there and grind it out.   And that's what I did early today. 
I had it going right a little bit, just barely, but enough to get in the rough.   So it made it tough.   So I just hung in there and that's really all you can do. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT