THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2012
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Birdied 1, but then bogeyed 2, bogeyed 4 and then all of a sudden, balm, balm, balm. 
DAVID TOMS:   Yeah, it's hard to explain.   This golf course, really, there are plenty of holes, if you can hit the shots, if you can pull it off, if you can play the aggressive shot and happen to pull it off; and that's the way I had to play today. 
I was so far back, and I was just trying to have a decent finish.   So, you know, no reason why I shouldn't shoot at a flag.   What's the difference in 44th and 34th?   That's the way I was playing out there, and I just happened to play a great round of golf. 

Q.   Can you have that same attitude if you're right by the lead, or are there go, no‑go situations? 
DAVID TOMS:   I think there are plenty of no‑go situations.   I think guys teeing off now, or whenever they tee off, you would take par on every hole no matter what's going on out there, because at the end of the day, you would be in pretty good position.

Q.   When did you start feeling like it was going to be‑‑
DAVID TOMS:   Well, when I holed that shot at 6, and I came back on 7, which is a pretty long par 4 for me.   And I birdied 8, which is a bonus to birdie that hole.   I think we had 231 today. 
Then I hit a bad chip at 9 and made a nice 20‑something‑foot putt there to keep the momentum going, and just played solid on the back. 

Q.   Is there a blueprint now, if you were teeing off now, having already played 18 holes, would you say, all right, here is what we've got to do today?
DAVID TOMS:   I think you just have to play solid.   You have those holes where, they are tough.   And even some of the short holes, if you get in a bad spot‑‑ I think it's all about getting the ball in the fairway.   Or, if not in the fairway, in a playable position, first cut of rough, those type of things.   That's the most important thing. 
You have some crosswinds‑‑ if you can get the ball in the fairway, the greens are fairly receptive.   I guess the cloud cover helped that, and that way, you can put it in the right position to be on the green. 
That's the key is keeping the ball in play.   The guys that come out on top are the ones that are up there and able to stay in trouble off the tee.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT