WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2012
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You make eight birdies out there today.   You beat a really tough opponent in Rickie Fowler, and spent all last week skiing and didn't hit a golf shot.   Is that the new preparation for you?  
DAVID TOMS:   Like I told you earlier, I've got my priorities straight.   I was out spending time with the family vacationing that we had planned for a while.   
I came here rusty, but had good preparation yesterday.   Played 18 holes and played really well.   And I came out today and started feeling good with the putter.   And that was really the key to my round today was making putts.   I kept it in play all day, but at the same time I had a lot longer putts than Ricky, because he had a lot shorter shots in.   The putter is definitely the key.   
   
 Q.   Nice little battle today.   It was a tough fought match pretty much all day long.   He's hitting it well by you pretty much all day.   You knew that going into the day.   How hard is it just to stay in your own game plan?  
DAVID TOMS:   It's very difficult.   A lot of the holes where I'm having to play to the sides of the bunkers, he's hitting over it.   A lot shorter shot to some of these pin placements.   I knew I had to putt well.   I was able to do that.   Made a couple long ones.   
I drove the ball great all day until 17.   I got right up in the lip of a bunker.   But I was sure he was going to make that putt the way he was playing on the back nine.  
I feel very fortunate to get out with a victory.   Had to make about eight birdies to do it.   I'll take that every day on this course, even if you get beat, you've just got to go out there and play.  
   
 Q.   Martin Kaymer tomorrow, your thoughts?  
DAVID TOMS:   World class player.   Guy plays great all over the world.   A Major champion.   I saw him in front of us today hitting a lot of bombs out there.   So I have to play just like I did today.   I have to go out there and make some putts and hopefully my pitching is a little bit better.   I had a struggle with that today on some of the par‑5s when I had a chance to do well and make birdie.   I have to work on that a little bit here this afternoon.   Hopefully just go out there and things go my way tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT