HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 20, 2012
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MARK STEVENS:   David Toms, another great round over on the Nicklaus Course today.   If you want to kind of talk us through the round and we'll take a few questions. 
DAVID TOMS:   Birdied the first hole, so that's always nice to get off to a good start. 
Then I bogeyed the next hole right out of the box.   So didn't really play that great early on.   Tee shots were a little erratic today, I guess you would say.   Really didn't do much of anything. 
I started to hit some better shots, hit some good putts that didn't go in, and then made a few and then finished great.   I finished birdie, eagle, birdie, the last three holes.   So I turned just a so‑so day into a pretty solid day. 

Q.   The so‑so part of the day, it looked like there were maybe two or three putts out there that at various times you thought that maybe went in. 
DAVID TOMS:   Yeah, the greens there at the Nicklaus Private weren't quite as smooth as they were at La Quinta yesterday.   And everybody in my group hit putts that looked like they were going in and they would just fall off the last minute.   So it was one of those things where you really need to seem to hit the middle of the hole to make them. 
But it was fine.   We were just grinding along.   I knew that I was playing well, it was a matter of time where I would start making some birdies and I finished really strong.   So I just stayed patient all day. 

Q.   Does 16‑under surprise you, please you, stun you?
DAVID TOMS:   A little bit surprising, because coming into the week my confidence wasn't really high.   I didn't play that well over in Hawaii, either tournament, so, but you never know.   It's the type of game that it is.   You work hard and you hope that some things will click and put it all together.   So certainly it's a good start and with a four round tournament instead of five rounds I'm right in a good position and hopefully I can shoot, go shoot another low round tomorrow to have a chance on Sunday. 

Q.   The way your rotation worked out you have back to back rounds now on the same golf course, the Palmer Course.   Is that any kind of an advantage?
DAVID TOMS:   I don't know.   I guess it depends on how you play the golf course.   If you go out there and play well and you have a low round, you can't wait to get back on it the next day.   So I understand the weather could be a little bit iffy tomorrow, so the golf courses might play a little tougher.   So just go out there and play as hard as I can and take what the golf course gives me. 
I've done that so far where I've attacked where I felt like I could and then other times had to back off on some of the harder holes and just make your par.   So there's some holes like that on the Palmer Course as well.   There's some where you have to take advantage of them, and then there are others where par is a good score.   So you just got to go out and play. 

Q.   Were there any particular adjustments you made in your game after the last two weeks going in to this week?
DAVID TOMS:   Nothing really.   Although here you can work on your golf swing, at least we could early in the week when the weather's perfect like it's been the first two rounds of the tournament.   So you start trying to hit some shots work on your alignment, ball position, shaping shots, hitting them high, low. 
When you're over in Hawaii and the wind is blowing and a lot of cross wind, side hill lies and things like that, especially at Kapalua, you're just trying to score.   And you can start swinging really hard the first week because the fairways are a hundred yards wide and you swing as hard as you can and hope you hit it in the middle of the club face. 
Here, especially the golf course we played yesterday, you got to start hitting the shots, with your tight windows and everything, and I was able to work on my game early in the week and felt a little bit better about my tempo.   I think it had gotten off over there.   And that's a big part of my consistency is tempo of the golf swing and it has to be good and it's gotten lot better here this week. 

Q.   At this point do you even ‑‑ at what point in this tournament do you care about the leaderboard?
DAVID TOMS:   I looked at it a little bit today, just to see guys were going low again like they were.   It's interesting to see guys keep up a certain pace.   One low round doesn't mean that you're going to be able to continue to do it. 
So I just, just to see how guys were doing and they were still playing well, and at the time I was only a couple under par so I'm like, hey, I need to pick it up a little bit.   So you do that. 
But as far as paying attention to how you really stand in the golf tournament, that's not that important until there the last couple hours on Sunday afternoon. 

Q.   Talk about the eagle there at the end. 
DAVID TOMS:   I had 220, I hit a great drive, I had 220 to a pin that was not very accessible and I could have hit the two hybrid and flown it to the back of the green, but it was going to go over and I was going to be chipping back towards the water, a tough chip.   So I decided to try to hit the three and land it on front of the green and run it back there.   And I hit the perfect shot, I needed to hit a low cut and it hit and ran back to the right and just one of those shots that comes off perfect and certainly a good way to end the day. 

Q.   How long was the putt?
DAVID TOMS:   Wasn't that far.   Probably 12, definitely less than 15 feet.   It was just one of those where I hit two great shots, I wanted to take advantage of it.   And I just hit a great putt and it went right in the middle. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT