U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 28, 2019
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How did you feel you played today?
DAVID TOMS: I had some ups and downs.  Not quite as solid as yesterday but not many days are.  I got off to a good start, birdieing the first two holes, and then I gave it back.  Had a tough lie on No. 3 after my second shot, didn't hit a very good little shot from the edge of the green, and then I made a bad swing on, I guess, the par-3, fifth hole.
Other than that, it was pretty solid golf today.  You know, I think the wind played a factor, what wind we had middle of the round as far as trying to get a ball close to the pin.  You had to pay attention to that, made it a little bit more difficult for us this afternoon for us than yesterday, and I think that was really the difference.
I still felt good with the putter, my speed was good, and I made some nice putts, and so I just didn't want to get too far away from Steve and Jerry and anyone else that was playing good.  I saw there were still some birdies out there, and I just went out and just tried to go hole by hole after getting off to a good start was nice, but once I gave it back, I just had to hang in there.  I didn't really have my swing in the middle of the round and started feeling better late in the round.  I feel good about the weekend.
Q. By the time you teed off, I think Stricker had already finished his round.  Did you sort of have that in your mind, like he's already at 14-under, I've got to make some shots?
DAVID TOMS: No, absolutely.  I knew that I needed to make birdies to get close.  But on a golf course like this and in a major championship, especially a USGA event, a lot of times it can bite you when you hit a shot there or try to be too aggressive.  So you really still had to have a good game plan.  I took my chances when I could, and other times I played to the middle of the green, and then other times I just didn't hit a very good shot.
I felt good about my day today.  I didn't get too far away, and I'm in a good position for the weekend.
Q. You're still just three shots back of the lead.  How are you feeling going into the weekend?
DAVID TOMS: I feel good.  Game feels good.  First things first, get the ball in the fairway, had a couple of bad drives today that cost me, but other than that, I drove it pretty nicely.  You know, that's really the key.  And then attack when you can, back off when you should, and try to keep rolling it on the greens.
Q. Did the greens pick up some pace this afternoon do you think?
DAVID TOMS: You know, the only thing that I could really tell is they got a little chewed up around the hole.  It seemed we had a lot of pins in some low areas that were tough to get to, and once you got there, a lot of foot traffic around the hole, and obviously they weren't quite as fresh as they were yesterday morning when we played.  So I felt like that was maybe a little bit of a factor.  But the speed of the greens are really good right now.
Q. Will you watch the weather forecast tonight and will that affect your strategy?
DAVID TOMS: No, I think by the time we played tomorrow afternoon, especially if we go in twosomes, it'll be pretty late, so you'll kind of know how the course is playing, is it soft again, what's the wind going to be doing and all that, and have a game plan according to that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT