TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 23, 2011
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What a difference a couple days can make from yesterday to today. I assume you're a little more pleased coming off the course today?
 DAVID TOMS: Yeah, I had a better day today, obviously. I think the difference was I drove the ball a lot better today. I don't think I hit half the fairways yesterday. And today, for the most part, I kept the ball in play and gave myself a lot of opportunities, hit a lot of greens, and when I didn't, I recovered well. I was up-and-down out of the sand a few times and a couple other up-and-downs late in the round to keep the round going. 

 Q. Did winning the award early this week or being given it, did that affect your mindset at all this week? Did it affect how you played yesterday or today?
 DAVID TOMS: No, not at all. You know, this week -- in the past, this golf tournament, I've always relaxed and played decent here. I mean, nothing great, but it's just a relaxing week. You've got 30 guys; you've got no cut. It's a reward for playing well all year. I'm not close enough really to the FedExCup to have a chance to win, especially after yesterday, and so I just wanted to go out and enjoy the rest of the week and not put so much pressure on myself. I did that today, played better. I'll try to keep that up the rest of the weekend.

 Q. You don't think the attention with the award --
 DAVID TOMS: No, absolutely not. That was a very nice evening, and I was a little uptight knowing I had to speak a couple times that day. Once that's over with, it was kind of a relief, and I was just here to play golf the rest of the week once that got behind me.

 Q. Would you have felt that this was as relaxing and fun if you were not assured a Presidents Cup berth? 
 DAVID TOMS: Absolutely. It would have made a difference. I probably would have put a little bit more pressure on myself to perform here in hopes of a pick, but I've got that behind me. So like I said, it's a pretty relaxing week.

 Q. What do you think you were more nervous about, the speech or tomorrow night?
 DAVID TOMS: You know, they're both on pretty equal terms there. You know, the Payne Stewart Award doesn't come around very often, and to be a part of that group, I was pretty nervous. But to see all the guys out there, guys that I play with week in and week out, they supported me that night, and some of the past recipients meant a lot to me and helped me relax a little bit.

 Q. What do you think of Fred's decision to name Tiger as a captain's pick and do it as early as he did? 
 DAVID TOMS: Well, I mean, obviously he thinks, as well as most of the players on TOUR, when Tiger is healthy that he's the best player in the world. So he's got plenty of time to recover, get his body healthy, and then work on his game. So I'm sure he'll be there ready to play great, and I think he'll add a lot to the team. I think it was a good pick. 

 Q. Do you think your name is in the mix for Player of the Year?
 DAVID TOMS: You know, I don't know. This is the kind of golf course, we've just got to go play every hole. There's a lot of tough holes out there, a lot of long holes for me, and I can't get that far ahead, really, to be honest.

 Q. Maybe this is a tough question to answer because it's hypothetical, but if you were still on the bubble and depending on that last captain's pick to get on The Presidents Cup, would it change how you feel about Tiger being on the team? 
 DAVID TOMS: No. I mean -- no, because I would certainly feel even with a good year that when he's healthy, he's a better golfer than me and everybody else, so I have no problem with it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT