BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 18, 2011
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You shot an even par-71 but three bogeys coming in. How much was this Presidents Cup on your mind?  
 DAVID TOMS: Well, I knew I just needed a good round today. I got off to a great start. I was under par all day on a tough golf course under tough conditions, and I started driving it sideways when I was raining and I couldn't put the ball in the fairway, and I hung in there. I was grinding until the end, and I'm hoping it works out for me.  
  
  Q. It appears it may, but when you're in a position like that where you have to protect your position, does it force you to change the way you play and perhaps become a little bit more aggressive when you might not necessarily do that?  
 DAVID TOMS: Yeah, there were a lot of scenarios out there today. I knew there were some guys I needed to beat in the golf tournament to secure my position, and I was out there grinding. It was a tough golf course. It was a long golf course, it got wet today, and I was just proud of the way I competed. I hung in there every shot. I spent most of the day underneath an umbrella, so I didn't watch any scoreboards, just played golf.   
  
  Q. How does it feel to be back on the United States Presidents Cup team?  
 DAVID TOMS: I look forward to it. I've been to Australia a couple times, beautiful country, great golf fans, a great part of the world to play golf in. So I look forward to it. I know it's -- when you miss one of those team competitions I know what I am missing because I've been a part of them. It's a lot of fun. You get to know the players a little bit better, some of the young guys, get to know their spouses, girlfriends. I look forward to it. It's been a great year for me. To get back to where I am now after being down a little bit, I've worked really hard this year and made myself hang in there every single round of golf, and in the end I made it.  
  
  Q. Did you ever doubt at all that you would get back to the elite level of representing your country?  
 DAVID TOMS: No, as long as I'm healthy -- sometimes the confidence wavers, sometimes it doesn't. But I've worked hard, and I look forward to going over there and being part of the team.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT