WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2011
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. David, 4-under par round. Other than the 11th hole seemed like a great ball striking day. Made some putts, good chip shots.
 DAVID TOMS: One of the solid days. Obviously if you're in the fairway, it's not a difficult golf course. The greens are receptive. But, you know, I hung in there when I didn't hit good shots, I got up and down and a couple of good shots. You know, about the way I played, 4-under par. 
 So, certainly have to strike a little better tomorrow to shoot a low round but I think one is in there, I just got to go out and do it.

 Q. Take me through 15, 16, 17 because you missed the green left with a great pitch shot, knock-in birdie, missed the green left and make a par at 16 and then the birdie at 17.
 DAVID TOMS: 15 I was far enough back where I couldn't see where I was going on the second shot. I knew I didn't need to miss it right. Lake over there, tough up and down. Anything left and pin high was going to be a fairly easy up and down. I got it over there and hit a great chip shot, kick-in birdie. 
 I tried to attack the pin on 16 which if you don't hit a good shot there you're going to pay the price. Luckily I got up and down from the fringe there. 
 17, just played a routine kind of shot, wedge shot in there close, and then the way I played 18. I did a great job. Hit a 7-iron about 25 feet and tapped it in.

 Q. You're the only one in the FedExCup point standings here with a chance with a win this weekend you move to No. 1. Do you think about that much, do you know where you are, do you know what's at stake?
 DAVID TOMS: I don't think about it too much. Certainly would love to win this event because I like it and I came close last year. There's so many points at stake in the next month. 
 Once The Playoffs start just because you're No. 1 going in doesn't mean a whole lot. Although it's a pretty good position to be in there. I'd like to just play great at this event just for the sake of playing well here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT