THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 15, 2011
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Thoughts on your round? 
 DAVID TOMS: You know, it's taken two days to get it completed. Under par round on a Saturday at THE PLAYERS, you know, you've got to take it. Certainly feel like I'm playing better than that. I had opportunities, especially yesterday early on, didn't get it done. But overall, a good score.

 Q. You have a tendency in your career when you get hot, you get really hot like in PGA Championship and Match Play. Do you have similar feelings this week? 
 DAVID TOMS: I feel good. You know, this is the type of golf course where you have to be patient, so it's tough to just go out there in attack mode. I mean, you have to play it. 
 But I do feel good about all parts of my game. It's just a matter of going out there and doing it.

 Q. As we saw the last few holes everybody coming in, it's a tough stretch?
 DAVID TOMS: Yeah, it is tough. Even if you pick the shot and commit to it, they're still tough shots. You have to pull them off. You have to make the swing. You can't have any doubt. 
 You know, I'm sure early in the day, 17 was just a nice little solid wedge and everybody's making birdie. Then we get there and the wind's starting to come in left to right, and I had to hit a nine and just kind of dink it, and I didn't put a good swing on it, and I paid the price. 
 You just don't know. You have to play the shots when you get there, and pay attention to your own game and do the best you can.

 Q. How fun is it to be in the mix in such a big championship? 
 DAVID TOMS: Oh, it's fun. Number one, because I've never really played well here, and to be in the mix, that's really where I am. It will take a good round, but at least I have that opportunity.

 Q. Will you watch the leaderboard at all? 
 DAVID TOMS: I was watching it a little bit just to kind of see what was going on, see if anybody was really shooting low or pulling away from everybody. Then I was playing with Nick, and he struggled there for a couple of holes. I know he came back a little bit. Just kind of watching to see what the other guys were doing. 
 But at the same time you're out there trying to do the best you can. I don't care what position you're in, what your score was, you've still got to hit those shots.

 Q. How much does the experience -- I mean, patience is the key here. But there is also an experience factor with the patience when you get into situations like what just happened over the last hour. 
 DAVID TOMS: Yeah, I mean, a perfect example is 16 I hit a great drive down there. I really, to get it to the hole to hit the shot I needed to hit my 3 hybrid. But we were worried if I just crunched one back there and landed in the middle of the green, it was going to go over the water. 
 So we made a decision to hit it on the front left of the green and try to make a birdie that way and take eagle out of it. I pulled a little bit and got into a tough spot, and you saw what Nick did from basically the same area that I was in. 
 It's just sometimes even though you're in the middle of the fairway, you have to play away or play maybe sometimes not even on the green. You just have to play the percentages. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT