U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 27, 2019
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (Indiscernible) 62 here.  
DAVID TOMS: I didn't even realize that.  I had forgotten what the par was.  I was just playing golf.  It was a good day.  Birdied the first hole, and I was like, here we go, and then gave it right back at the next hole, missed the green.  Early in the round, it was just kind of up and down.  I had a lot of bogeys early, short-sided myself, trying to be too aggressive, and really we had a little bit of mud issue on the ball early on, and you just had to pay attention to what you were doing, hit the smart shot, and I got too aggressive at times and paid for that.   
But really got hot on my last nine holes, started to make some putts, which I haven't done in a long time, as far as consecutive, nice-length, birdie-length putts, and it was just a good, solid day.  I drove it in the fairway for the most part, started to hit my irons better on the last nine, and gave myself a lot of opportunities, and ended up with a great score.   
 Q.  I guess you're probably a big fan of this course and Notre Dame right now?  
DAVID TOMS: Yeah, I mean, like I've said before, I didn't really appreciate what Notre Dame was all about until you come up here and you see it all.  I went to dinner, my girls went to Chicago yesterday, so I was -- I had dinner by myself and there are college kids everywhere where I was eating and felt a lot like Baton Rouge in that regard, and I love being there, too.   
Yeah, just a neat experience to get to do this.  The golf course is fantastic.  It's all in front of you.  You know, you just have to pick and choose where you can be aggressive because you can get in a bad spot and can't make par.   
Obviously today I got off to a -- the round today is a great start.  I'm going to have to keep it up, and if the course dries out a little bit and firms up, greens firm up, birdies will be hard to come by, and I've just got to go out there and just be there on every shot.   
 Q.  With the smaller greens, is there a good balance with the wider fairways?  
DAVID TOMS: Yeah, it is.  It gives you an opportunity to hit a lot of fairways if you're driving the ball good.  You know, them being soft for sure.  So that helps.  But you still -- we had some long shots in today.  I hit a lot of 5- and 6-irons for a guy that hits it my length, so I had a lot of 195 down to 180 type shots.  So you're not really -- with the greens small like they are, you're just trying to hit it on the green.  You're not necessarily attacking the pin.  That's the way you had to play, and I did that, and I was fortunate to make a couple of nice putts and get on a roll.   
 Q.  With the way you finished, how do you kind of use that to just kind of go into tonight feeling pretty confident about --  
DAVID TOMS: Well, I mean, it's a great round in a major championship, so I've got to take confidence away from that.  Like I said, I haven't been able to make putts consecutively during a round very often this year, and to do that, it gives me some confidence with the putter.  I mean, you don't expect those things, but just a little shot of confidence always helps.  That's what I'm going to take out of this round and go into the rest of the week and do the best I can.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT