THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 14, 2011
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOEL SCHUCHMANN: David Toms, thanks for joining us here for a couple of minutes. Just got through five holes, right around the lead at 10-under par, one off the lead of two players right now. Certainly hitting the ball well, just if you made a few more putts, I think you would certainly be in really, really good position. 
 DAVID TOMS: Yeah, I mean, obviously it's been a long day for all of us. I think I got here about noon, maybe even quarter till. Just been a long day. We finally got to play some golf and I was ready to play. Went out there and hit a lot of good shots, didn't make any putts, and I'm still right where I started. 
 It's going to be a long day tomorrow, especially for an old guy. I think I've got to go, what, 31 holes tomorrow. Hopefully I can play some good golf and give myself a little added boost that you need to make it through a long day like that. If you're playing well, a lot of times you kind of forget how many holes you have to play. So just need to go out there and play great tomorrow.
 I know it's going to be probably great conditions tomorrow. Looks like obviously the golf course is a lot softer than it was before the rain, and it's going to be a long day. I just need to go out and play great. I think you'll see probably some good scoring tomorrow, so I'm going to have to go out there and start making some and have a good day myself.

 Q. You've seen a lot of things in your career. Is it difficult when the sun is going down and a lot of people have already left the golf course? Is it hard to concentrate? Does it feel different?
 DAVID TOMS: Are you trying to say the ones that are left might have partaken in a few beverages? 
 It's interesting the people that are still around. It's great that they're here supporting us and everything, but you hear a lot of things. You can hear a lot of people going crazy over there on 17. They've been sitting there all day. We had a few people following Nick and I and they were pretty vocal, but that's part of it. I guess what we were doing these last few holes kind of felt like you're the last group on a Friday afternoon. Just trying to get to the house. 

 Q. What was it like warming up on the range and watching Martin Kaymer birdie the first four holes? Did you think it was going to be --
 DAVID TOMS: You know, I really had no idea he did that. Wasn't really watching much. I was worried about getting that first tee shot in the fairway and getting started. You know, I might look at it a little bit tomorrow just to see how guys are scoring. But for me it's all about just going out and playing every shot. 
 This golf course, if you ever let up and you're not there, it can get you. So I just have to go out and take care of my own business.

 Q. Truth be told, you guys have a lot of weather delays, stops, starts, waiting, the early days, the next days and everything. Is this something you guys get used to and you're equipped to handle?
 DAVID TOMS: I think so. There's been many times where I've had to play two rounds in one day. It's part of golf. You know, they're doing everything they can to help television and get the golf tournament in and get somebody out there playing golf. 
 I actually thought the golf course was a lot better when we got out there. I didn't know what to expect. I thought it might have puddled in the fairways and things like that, and bunkers. But for the most part -- it wasn't dry by any means, but it was very, very playable.

 Q. What did you do from noon to 5:00, whatever, 6:00 o'clock?
 DAVID TOMS: Kind of hung out on the porch and watched it storm, ate too many times. My son is here and one of his friends, and his friend had really never been to a TOUR event with us, so he got to see a lot of players and neat things like that. Watched LSU baseball game on my phone for about six or seven innings. 
 It's interesting, you're just trying to find something to occupy your time and get your mind off what's going on. I didn't know if I'd tee it up today, and so you don't really have the mindset we're going out in two hours. I didn't hear a thing until an hour before we were going to be back out there, so I really didn't know what was going on. We were just watching the radar. I'm glad we got in a few holes, but for the most part we were just hanging out, telling stories, hanging around the locker room. 

 Q. You're at 10-under, everybody else is a little bit back. I'm guessing the last thing you wanted to see is rain and soft and everyone throwing darts. 
 DAVID TOMS: Right.

 Q. How does it change for you now?
 DAVID TOMS: Well, it's just like -- Johnny Miller, we were talking earlier today in the interview, he said I think a pair of 71s will obviously do it for you. Obviously I don't think that would be the case now. But that's okay. It's a golf course where I've shot some good scores this week already. You just have to know that maybe you just have to be a little bit more aggressive at times, and we'll see. You never know. There's a lot of pressure out there the last nine holes. You've got to hit a lot of shots. You don't know exactly what the scoring is going to do, but you've got to figure it's going to be pretty good tomorrow. 
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: David Toms, thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT