THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2011
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Way to play.   
 DAVID TOMS: Thank you.  
  
  Q. Was there any revelation coming here that you said to yourself, hey, I'm going to play good here?   
 DAVID TOMS: No, not necessarily. Past results here haven't been all that great, but I've played a lot of good rounds in the last month or so. This is the third week of a four-week stretch that I have, so I wanted to get the game going, which, I mean, you always want to do that. But I just felt like that third week is a good time to really get it going, and that's what's happened so far.   
 I've played really, really solid. Like I said, I haven't done anything necessarily great, I've just been very solid in every part of the game.  
  
  Q. The casual golf fan may not understand how momentum plays into it. Start hitting it good, start making putts. Is that part of what's happened to you in the last two days?   
 DAVID TOMS: I think most guys would say it's a game that you can find it pretty quick and you can lose it pretty quick. It is a game of momentum; it's a game of confidence. You know, you mentally have to be there as well as physically, especially on a golf course like this. That's what I've done well the first couple days.   
 My swing is okay, putting is okay, but my thoughts on the golf course and the way I've played it course management wise has been very good as well.  
  
  Q. Has it been dramatically different to play in the morning and the afternoon in these two days?   
 DAVID TOMS: You know, yesterday afternoon I was very pleased with the score. I thought the golf course played a lot tougher than it did this morning.   
 The golf course is pretty soft right now. Seemed like they slowed down the fairways a little bit. We didn't seem to be getting as much roll. We had some longer shots into the par-4s today. Couple of par-5s weren't playing as short as they were yesterday. But the greens were very receptive and maybe not as fast as yesterday afternoon. So certainly a good day for scoring.  
  
  Q. Any truth to the joke that's going around that your shoulder is in much better shape now that you don't have to throw with your 13-year-old son?   
 DAVID TOMS: Oh, that he's not playing baseball, so I don't have to warm him up anymore. It's just one of those things. There are certainly things I can't do. Right now it's all about golf.  
  
  Q. Jason Day said that you were so straight and so consistent, do you think that's really been what you've been missing and you've got that back now?   
 DAVID TOMS: Yeah, maybe, but you know it's the first time I've played with Jason. I've seen him play a lot of golf. He's played well a lot of times.   
 It was funny because he was asking me a lot of questions about different things that have gone on in my career. Seems like I've been out here forever, and he was wanting to ask me about things like that.   
 But it's neat playing with a good young player like that. I played with two really solid young players. I had to play the golf course different than they did. They hit a lot of 3-woods off the tee where I was hitting driver, but that's the kind of course it is. If you're driving it well, you can go ahead and be aggressive off the tee, especially at my length where you can get it down there and play with the guys.  
  
  Q. Have you shared thoughts with Hal Sutton about this course?   
 DAVID TOMS: No, obviously he's played well here, played great here a couple times. But look at him. He's always been an incredible ball striker, and so certainly has done well here. We haven't really talked about it too much, but I've watched his career for a long time and obviously watched what he's done here.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT