ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 30, 2011
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DAVID TOMS: Yeah, I got off to a slow start. I think I was 1-over through 5. Then I caught fire there in the middle of the round and kept myself in the golf tournament.   
 I was trying to shoot a good score today to give myself a chance for tomorrow. I'll have to shoot a low round.  
  
  Q. Talk about the shot on nine?   
 DAVID TOMS: Yeah, that was good. You know, I birdied 6 and 7, and just played safe over there on 9. Take your par and get out of there and I happened to sneak in a long putt. Got me going on the back and birdied 10 and 11, so it was rolling pretty good there.  
  
  Q. The birdie at 18 how important is it to finish strong and carry that over to the next round?   
 DAVID TOMS: You know, it's not a hard hole if you hit a good drive. I drove it in the fairway bunker and left myself a long third shot, and hit a great shot and made putt.   
 So any time you can finish with a birdie and finish off a good round that makes it pretty good.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about the par save on 12? How did that happen?   
 DAVID TOMS: The par save on 12, I hit a great drive down the middle of the fairway on the second hole. Hit a bad second shot and just rolled it down in there pretty good. Had it pretty easy. If you're going to miss the green, you miss it there on the left side, you have it pretty easy.  
  
  Q. The course is playing nice with the wind? Was the wind too strong?   
 DAVID TOMS: It wasn't too strong. It was worst when I teed off than it is right now. You're fortunate to catch the good end of the deal every once in a while.   
  
  Q. You know the guys behind you will play more difficult as the day goes on?  
 DAVID TOMS: Yeah, but there are some accidents waiting to happen out there. You never know. You've got to play every shot. If they finish up playing well, I'll have to shoot really low tomorrow. If they come back a little bit, maybe mid 60's might get it done. I've got to go out and play great tomorrow regardless.  
  
  Q. As always, nice to get the support you always get out here?  
 DAVID TOMS: Yeah, I had a nice following when I teed off. Then I got off to a bad start, and it kind of dwindled. By the end of the round it picked back up. Kind of funny like that. I'm out there trying as hard as I can.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT