MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2011
David Toms
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q. Can you sum up today, general comments about your play today and your position?  
 DAVID TOMS: You know, I just played really solid. Everybody in our group did, kind of fed off each other, and we all played pretty well. Conditions were great this morning, probably like they were yesterday morning. It all evens out in the end. We should have gone a little lower. We had an opportunity, at least I did. I had a lot of looks at it today and didn't get very many of them to go, but 3-under any time around this place is pretty good.  
  
  Q. Is the margin of error on this course better than it is anywhere else?  
 DAVID TOMS: I think it is. You know, some of the TPC golf courses you run into that on a weekly basis, but as far as having to hit the shot or pay the consequences, this is pretty much as tough as it gets with the second shots.   
  
  Q. Can you talk to us about your birdies on 13 and 15?  
 DAVID TOMS: Both holes I laid up. Could have gone for 15, but I probably would have had to hit a 3-wood, so laid up. I had a good number both times. I hit lob wedge in there inside ten feet both times and made a nice putt.  
  
  Q. When you see Freddie on the leaderboard, you realize how important experience is around here and you have experience, does that give you any extra motivation?  
 DAVID TOMS: Yeah, I mean, I've probably been in all the good spots and found most of the good spots. So pulling clubs and getting lines off of tees, knowing what the wind might be doing because it's all open out there, experience definitely helps.  
  
  Q. Is your ball-striking as good as yesterday?  
 DAVID TOMS: Yeah, it was good. I only missed a handful of greens today, you know, and most of the time it was club selection. Ball-striking was very good.   
  
  Q. How did 11 play today?   
 DAVID TOMS: 11 I hit driver, 4-iron to 11 today. I hit a good drive and had 4-iron in. That's just a tough hole. It's one of those holes where you just take your par and get out. If you hit a great shot and make a nice putt, so be it, but you'd take 4 there every day.  
  
  Q. Is the challenge simply the length or is there more to it?  
 DAVID TOMS: Well, I mean, if it's a par-5 length then it's probably a par-5 green. It's a tight hole. You can't just beat it off the tee. Like I said, it's like making four birdies if you make four pars. It's just a great hole.  
  
  Q. When you look at yesterday when there were so many low scores, do you expect things to be a little tighter today?  
 DAVID TOMS: Yeah, probably. You start thinking about it a little bit, maybe trying to shoot at a pin they shouldn't shoot at just because they did it yesterday and it worked out. The breeze is picking up a little bit, some of the greens are drying out. It makes for a tougher golf course.   
  
  Q. What did you hit on 12 today?  
 DAVID TOMS: I hit an 8 today. Probably should have hit 8 yesterday. I flew it in the bushes back there yesterday. It just depends on what kind of wind you get there. We had like 156, I think, which is stretching an 8 for me, and if the wind gets it, it'll be short. But I didn't really want to fly it back there in the junk again today.  
  
  Q. You putted with a hybrid or a metal?  
 DAVID TOMS: Yeah, I did yesterday. I putted with a hybrid yesterday. I hit a good shot, missed the putt yesterday, but today I just took my par.  
  
  Q. Was it easier to figure the wind yesterday --  
 DAVID TOMS: It just wasn't quite as strong when we went to that part of the golf course. It wasn't as tough as it was yesterday.  
  
  Q. Is the wind different today from yesterday?  
 DAVID TOMS: Pretty much the same direction, although it can change when you get out there. The wind was blowing right to left and all the shots seemed like they went left to right, so it made for a pretty interesting day.  
  
  Q. Were you able to be a little more aggressive with your putting today?  
 DAVID TOMS: Yeah, early on I think the greens were a little bit slower early in the round, but right now they've got plenty of speed to them. You have to be careful.   
  
  Q. A lot of players mentioned how lush the golf course is as you come here. Can you quantify that? I'm not quite sure what the definition of lush is.   
 DAVID TOMS: There seems to be more grass in the shaded areas. A lot of times the golf course is a little thin because there's so much shade, and there seems to be a lot more grass on the fairways in a lot of spots that there normally wouldn't be, so I would say it's lush.  
  
  Q. Is the golf course playing longer?  
 DAVID TOMS: You know, longer but maybe some better lies in the fairways sometimes that in certain areas where in the past I remember it would be kind of hairy. Seems like the wedge shots are a little bit better on your lay-up holes and everything like that where you've got a little bit better lie of the ball.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 DAVID TOMS: Yeah, seems to be a little bit more. Even though it's still into you, you seem to have a little bit better lie, not quite as tight. It's pretty quick, and it's going to make it play longer, but you might get some better lies in strategic areas, so it might even out in the end.  
  
  Q. All the years you've been playing here, do you feel like it's gotten longer? I mean, I know they've added yardage obviously over the years.   
 DAVID TOMS: The whole thing is hitting the fairways in makes a huge difference. If you can catch some of the knobs out there you can still get the ball to chase for the most part. You're not getting a whole lot of roll.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT