MLB WINTER MEETINGS
December 8, 2009
Jack Zduriencik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JACK ZDURIENCIK: Best kept secret at the Winter Meetings. We have signed Chone Figgins to a four-year deal with the option for a fifth year. We think that Chone is a very versatile player. He gives our ballclub some options, speed, on-base percentage, a guy that can run and bunt and play multiple positions. 
 We do see him as a fit somewhere in our infield; that is yet to be determined where. We are very excited, having played against Chone in our division for the last several years and seeing him up close and personal. He's a nice fit to the club. It brings us an athlete, someone with versatility, and someone that we think has the character and makeup to fit in very nicely with our ballclub. 
 So thank you very much. 

 Q. Will where he plays be determined by what happens later? 
 JACK ZDURIENCIK: Yeah, we'll have options. We have talked about the possibility of him playing a few positions. I think that when we roll into spring training, that picture will be a little clearer. 
 Right now, he wants to be in the infield. He will be in our infield. And depending on what happens from this point forward, exactly where he will play, is, again, yet to be determined. 

 Q. Jack, throwing out the last couple of days, how quickly did this deal come together when the agents started talking about it? 
 JACK ZDURIENCIK: You know, it came together, I would say, pretty quick. We had a couple discussions with his agent group, Sam Levinson, in particular, and it went very well. We got right to the point. 
 This is a guy that we targeted going into this year's free agent market, a guy that we thought would be such a good fit, and we made that very clear. 
 I think Chone felt our desire to have him in our ballpark and our ballclub, and within just a matter of a couple of days, it came together and I think he is very excited about being a Seattle Mariner. 

 Q. How does he fit into your roster? He brings a great glove and he can hit the ball all around the park, but he can't hit it out. Seems like with the Adrian Beltre situation, seems like you might want to get somebody who hits the ball out. 
 JACK ZDURIENCIK: The question, getting somebody with power. Certainly we would like to have somebody with power. We would love to have it all over the ballclub. 
 Again, this is a unique player. When you look at what he's going to bring to our club, with Ichiro Suzuki batting at the top of the order, I think that's pretty special in and of itself. 
 I think we signed this player because of who he is: He's a guy that's versatile and he brings you some things offensively that we like to do, run, steal bases, bunt, and he's a very good defensive player, as well.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT