U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2017
Austin Eckroat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Was that one of the best matches you've ever been involved in?
AUSTIN ECKROAT: Oh, yeah, we both played unbelievable the whole round.  I think we were both 4-under going into 18.  Yeah, for sure.  It was just back and forth, a bunch of birdies.  We both made one bogey.  It was a great match.
Q. The club you chose 18 your second shot here on 18?
AUSTIN ECKROAT: It wasn't the club.  That was my only mis-hit of the day.
Q. What did you hit there?
AUSTIN ECKROAT: I hit a 4-iron.
Q. How far?
AUSTIN ECKROAT: To 20 basically.  Yeah, I hadn't had a mis-hit all day, and I mis-hit that one.  Yeah, I think we were in every fairway, every green, except for I missed the fairway on 15, made bogey, and he missed the fairway on 7 and made bogey.  That was it.
Q. Looked like you had a pretty good lie in the bunker?
AUSTIN ECKROAT: Oh, yeah, they were just bad swings.  I was in the middle of the fairway off a flat lie, and then the bunker was flat.  I was on a little up slope actually and just caught too much ball.  So that was it.
Q. How disappointed are you?
AUSTIN ECKROAT: Well, I'm disappointed, but I had a good tournament for sure.  I was way under par.  Kind of sucks the two highest seeds playing against each other in the quarterfinals, but that's all right.
Q. At any point in the round did it feel kind of weird because you're playing against your future teammate and your current roommate?
AUSTIN ECKROAT: Not really.  We kind of -- it was professional today.  It wasn't really -- we talked every now and then, but it was more -- it wasn't like it was a grind the whole time.  It wasn't like we were -- it was a grind the whole time.  It wasn't like we were chatting it up the whole time, but we had fun.
Q. And all the back and forth, though, you squared the match on 16 with a birdie.  How did you do that?
AUSTIN ECKROAT: I hit a drive down the left center of the fairway, had 100 yards and hit it to about four feet, made my birdie putt.  He hit it over the green and got it up and hit it to gimme range and tapped in -- or I gave it to him.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT