U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2017
Austin Eckroat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Making it to the quarterfinals for the first time, what's that feel like?
AUSTIN ECKROAT: Last year I had the same record, I think I went 5-4, and 7-5 again, and then I lost in the round of 16, so getting past it, that's great.  Obviously I want to keep going, but knowing that I did get further this year is pretty great.
Q. Had a nice little run there where you won four straight holes, 7 through 10.  Tell us how you did it?
AUSTIN ECKROAT: On 7, he hit it over the green, and all I wanted to do was keep it short and right of the hole, and I hit it short and right of the hole, left it about 30 feet short of that hole and I made it.
8, he missed the green right, and chipped it by about 15 feet.  I hit a terrible putt to about 10 feet, and he missed and I made mine.  And then 9, I was trying to take it right of the flag as I have been the whole week, and yanked it straight left of the flag.  Almost went on the water, but it was on the fringe.  I had a really good look at birdie, and I made that one.
Q. How far was that?
AUSTIN ECKROAT: The putt?
Q. Uh-huh.
AUSTIN ECKROAT: 18 feet maybe, 15 feet.  Then I hit the most solid 9-iron I've hit on, it was 175 downwind, flew it on the fringe over the green on 10, but it was really spiny.  It was high, caught super well, and it just spun straight back to about six feet past the hole, straight downhill and dived one in there after he missed his birdie putt.  So that was the stretch right there.
Q. As he said, it looks like you're going to be playing a future team mate in the next round.  What's that going to be like?  Also the fact that you guys are rooming together this week?
AUSTIN ECKROAT: Yeah, that's going to make it weird, especially that we're rooming together, because one of us won't be staying another night.  I guess we could both lose tomorrow with two matches.  But one of us is going home for sure.  Yeah, it's weird.  But it's great, obviously.  I want him to do well, but I also want to beat him.  Like I said to him, if I want to lose to somebody, I want to lose to Matt.
Q. Do you think there will be a lot of conversation tomorrow during the round?
AUSTIN ECKROAT: Oh, yeah, we won't act like enemies for sure.  We're friends.  It will be a friendly.
Q. What are the possible topics while you're playing?
AUSTIN ECKROAT: I mean, we talk a lot of smack, so I don't know.  It will be a funny one.  I don't know.  Topics from college, to his pickup lines, to other things.  Yeah.
Q. Any key par during the round today that you think held everything together?
AUSTIN ECKROAT: My putting, for sure.  I putted great.  I had a couple bad putts, but I made a lot of great putts to 15 feet.  I made a good par putt on hole 13.  On hole 13, and then made about a ten-footer on the last hole for birdie, so I mean putting was definitely a thing.
Q. As you said this morning, do you think the greens were definitely faster today than they were yesterday?
AUSTIN ECKROAT: Oh, no doubt.  Afternoon they were the same speed, but for sure, the greens are way faster today than they have been.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT