SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 26, 2012
Bill Glasson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You had a great round today, six birdies.   Take me through that.   
BILL GLASSON:   I guess you can make a lot of birdies.   I know a lot of people are making birdies, but without being very familiar with the course, it takes awhile to know where you can hit it and can't hit it.   
And the only difference in today is that I was able to get to a couple pins with shorter irons.   But I haven't played that much differently.   I hit 14 greens the first, each of the first two rounds, so I had plenty of opportunity, I wasn't making the putts and I didn't have very good angles at it.   
I think I might have hit about 14 or 15 today and it's been kind of the same each day, it's just, the score's a little bit different.   There's really no rhyme or reason for it.   I just had a few better looks.  
   
 Q.   Did the morning weather affect your round at all do you think?  
BILL GLASSON:   You know, we got out early, we were supposed to go out early.   So they put us, we got out here at 7:30 for a 9:30 and then we get notified that we're going at 11:54.   So that kind of sets your whole day back a little bit as far as the playing conditions.   
As it turned out, I was glad they did what they did, I didn't really want to be out there in the rain anyway, so.   And then you go to threesomes, so the pace of play is a little bit different.   Which I don't know is a bad thing at all.   
You get 40 feet out there on the greens and there could be three or four different breaks, so.   And it's almost, it was good for me to be able to see a couple of the guys putt then, meaning my playing partners.   
And if we go to twosomes tomorrow, I don't know what they're going to do, but hopefully that will help a little bit.   I know four days into a golf course, you hope you would know it a little bit better, but still, I don't even know where the 10th tee is yet.   I know it's out there somewhere.   But I don't know, I have no idea where I am here.   And I've been here five or six days and I still don't know where I am.   
   
 Q.   What adjustments were made off the front, you started on the 10th.   
BILL GLASSON:   Well, I parred the first three holes.   I had a couple good birdie putts that lipped out on the first couple holes.   And right when that squall line or that little rain event happened we were on the 13th tee, which is the 200 whatever yard par‑3 today, with a back right pin and the wind was blowing in our face and raining.   And it was just kind of bad timing.   
I had to end up hitting a hybrid, it was playing probably 220 at the time we were playing it.   And I got it up in the wind and it bailed and buried in the bunker and I didn't even get it out of the bunker it was buried so badly.   
So I think that was timing more than anything.   If we could have maybe been in a different spot, but I end up making double there.   So it was as much timing as anything else, but I'm sure it works out the other way too.   I'm sure I've benefited from a couple of those things during the day also.  
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT