RUTGERS UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 16, 2010
Greg Schiano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   COACH SCHIANO: If I could just ask you, I know it's your job, but if we could respect his family and his privacy right now. It would mean a lot to me and his family. As soon as it's appropriate, I'll get word to you. Through Jay, we'll get that to you.  
  
  Q. Are you going over there?   
 COACH SCHIANO: I am. I'm going there right now, actually. So if we could move through this, I can give you everything in a nutshell, if you want, and then you can ask some questions.   
 They did some good things offensively. One thing, really, we knew they'd have something new for us. We've done a great job over the years with wishbone teams and we always seem to get something different.   
 We were able to kind of, I wouldn't say, really fix it, but tweak it so we could kind of hold them in the second half on. Offensively, I think our guys got a little more comfortable, but we struggled, obviously, protecting the passer.   
 At the end of the game, we fouled that thing up. I've made a lot of really good, time-management decisions over ten years, really good ones that have won games for us. That one could have lost the game for us.   
 That's my job to take control, and that was a bone head move by me. And those kids played their way into winning that game and I'm proud of them. But that sucker's on me if we lose that game.   
 So, like I said, I've done a lot of great ones. You guys probably don't realize, but this wasn't one of them. Proud of our team. Really proud of our team.  
  
  Q. (No microphone) it seemed like he wanted to set up the field goal. Is that why Shane went in the middle? That was a long one, right, was it the wind?   
 COACH SCHIANO: Again, yeah, it was not a very good thought process going on right there.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about Shane before the sack (no microphone)?  
 COACH SCHIANO: Yeah, we have to figure out whether it's who it is or what it is, because right now it's at an epidemic proportion. We have to find a way to protect the passer and change what we do. But we're going to get somebody hurt back there.   
 He is one of the gutsiest kids. Hanging in there, and scrambling around. The one big play he was around, I tell you what, it was a lot of courage.  
  
  Q. You have back-to-back fourth quarters like that. Can you talk about the way he played down the stretch? (No microphone)?  
 COACH SCHIANO: I'm not going to talk about the job. But he sure has done a very good job under pressure. Those are pressure-packed situations. We'll deal with each week independently next week.   
 But I think I looked at it and we talked a great deal about what do we do in the second half? Offensively we had 60-something yards total offense at the end of the half, so we certainly were struggling. We had one drive with 16 plays and the rest was nothing.   
 But he really came on, and the whole group of them did. They fought and they battled. It wasn't pretty at al. Even in the end it wasn't pretty, but sometimes even not your prettiest day, you find a way to get it done.  
  
  Q. Talk about how they responded (No microphone)?  
 COACH SCHIANO: I think incredible job by our defensive staff: Bob Fraser, Ed Pinkham, Tem Lukabu, Randy Melvin and Robb Smith. Those guys, throughout the game, it was a chess match going on.   
 We play a brand of defense there that's all or nothing against the wishbone. That's why sometimes they come spitting and spitting out of there. They had a neat little play. You know, it doesn't take much in that scheme to get you.   
 I thought our coaches really worked hard. The best part is our players were able to take instruction in a game and then adjust and fix and tinker with during the game. It really is a tribute to them, a tribute to those guys, the players and the coaches.  
  
  Q. (No microphone)?  
 COACH SCHIANO: It's three weeks in a row. I'm sick about it. We've got to do something to get it corrected. I thought we did this week, but, obviously, I was wrong. Some of it is we're inexperienced in some positions and we're jumpy. It has to be six illegal procedure penalties, that's just being jumpy and we need to get that calmed down.  
  
  Q. After Eric got hurt, then you had to speak to mother, was that tough for you?   
 COACH SCHIANO: It's all tough stuff, yes. When you coach these kids, they're your kids. That is the thing I don't know if everybody gets. It's not pro football. Those are your kids. You're raising them. You're finishing the job for their parents, so it's tough.  
  
  Q. Meanwhile, have you had (no microphone)?  
 COACH SCHIANO: I'm going to keep it -- maybe. But I'm going to keep it just to me right now. I don't know. I'll see when I get out of here.  
  
  Q. Can you share whether you've had any information?   
 COACH SCHIANO: I'm not at liberty to do that legally, and I don't think it's the right thing respectfully.   
 I would like to get over there. If that's good, guys, our locker room will be open. I'm sure our players would have some things to say. But if you can keep in the interest that they're very worried about their teammate right now, so it might not seem like your normal locker room. Okay. Thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT