ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 3, 2008
Anthony Bryan
Gary Orr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SCOTT CROCKETT: Gary, Anthony, thank you for joining us. Well played today. It was a good effort and a good team effort, give us your thoughts on the day. 
 GARY ORR: It was tough and really cold. It wasn't -- the wind wasn't that strong, but it was really cold and that that's what made it so difficult. 
 The bucket at 17, that was the highlight of the day. Hit 3-wood and wedge quite close, about 12 feet or so. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Anthony, give us your thoughts on the day, how have you enjoyed the first couple of days? 
 ANTHONY BRYAN: I've greatly enjoyed it. I've had a wonderful player and a great gentleman and he was very kind with all of our misdeeds today. 
 Congratulations on a wonderful tournament. It's a great pleasure for us to come over and play in it, and we are indebted to you for the hospitality we get. So thank you so much. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Have you ever been as cold on a golf course in your life, Anthony? 
 ANTHONY BRYAN: I don't think so, and my game showed it. 

 Q. It really was a bit of a roller coaster today, wasn't it? 
 GARY ORR: Yeah, it was and with a day like that, when you make so many bogeys, I was pleased to make a few birdies as well. It was just a case of hanging on, at level par, happy with that for the minute. 

 Q. Can you remember when you first started playing the game? 
 ANTHONY BRYAN: I'm embarrassed to tell you but I think I started when I was ten or something like that, and I haven't improved much. 

 Q. And you grew up in England, I take it, and you played golf there, is that right? You grew up in England, did you? 
 ANTHONY BRYAN: I was in the Royal Canadian Air Force during the war and went back and made my business career in America. 

 Q. I believe you were shot down behind enemy lines in France in the second World War; is that right? 
 ANTHONY BRYAN: It's right and it's a long time ago. 

 Q. Something you've not forgotten, I would imagine? 
 ANTHONY BRYAN: At my age, you forget many things. 

 Q. With the two days that you played with Anthony, I'm sure when you're 85, you'll be delighted to be -- 
 GARY ORR: Well, playing off at 85, getting around especially in these conditions, it's fantastic really. 

 Q. How many rounds of golf would you play in a year or say in a month? Have you played golf regularly? 
 ANTHONY BRYAN: I play maybe twice a week or something like that. 

 Q. What's the average temperature of the golf courses you play? 
 ANTHONY BRYAN: Quite a bit warmer than here, like 80 degrees or something. But it's a wonderful thing to come over and experience the conditions here. You golfers are a lot better than we are. We have it easy, and you fight the elements. It shows in your games. 

 Q. How tough are you, and to what do you attribute your robust health? 
 ANTHONY BRYAN: Just having a very good partner and being encouraged all the time. 

 Q. Do you smoke or do you drink? 
 ANTHONY BRYAN: I don't smoke and I drink a little bit, and I find if I drink too much very quickly, I decide I've had too much, so I don't drink too much. 

 Q. How many layers of clothing do you have on? 
 GARY ORR: It's not too bad until we get way out to the turn, and it's really bitter cold out there, the coldest I've played here I'm pretty sure,. 

 Q. Just the jacket? 
 GARY ORR: And a tee shirt and -- I felt okay when I got to the clubhouse this morning. I thought, it's not going to be as cold as they thought and I got to the 11th green and realised it was colder. 

 Q. About the coldest you've played in? 
 GARY ORR: Probably in a tournament I think, yeah, I can't remember playing in any colder. 

 Q. Can I ask you where you play golf and where is home for you these days? 
 ANTHONY BRYAN: I play in Florida and it's Gulf Stream Golf Club, and I'm also a member of Sunningdale, so I play a little bit there, too. 

 Q. Could you estimate how many times you think you've played the 17th? 
 GARY ORR: Quite a lot. I don't know how many, maybe 15, 20, something like that maybe. I can't remember birdieing it before. Might have done it in practise but not in a tournament, I don't think. 

 Q. What was your club? 
 GARY ORR: I had a wedge for my second shot, 3-wood and a wedge, quite close, 12 feet or so. 

 Q. Your biography is quite fascinating, and giving us a list of your various achievements and they talked about earlier on the one that stands out for us is that you were shot down over France and you made it back to England; can you tell us how you made it back to England? 
 ANTHONY BRYAN: I made it, the invasion came and I was behind the lines, so then I got through the lines and joined my squadron that happened to be there at the time, and threw a couple of sorties and then I was sent home and then I went to fly in Italy after that. 

 Q. So how long were you behind enemy lines? 
 ANTHONY BRYAN: Four and a half months, yes. I was working with the French underground. 

 Q. So after all that, playing a game in golf in cold weather is nothing? 
 ANTHONY BRYAN: Exactly. 

 Q. I wonder if the Jesuit education you had might have prepared you a little bit; did you not have cold showers, amongst other things? 
 ANTHONY BRYAN: Benedictum, and it was a wonderful experience. I think the educational system you have here, for that particular age, is probably a bit stronger than we have in the States. 
 So I was very happy to do it, and then of course, you make a lot of good friends and you become a great admirer of the lifestyle over here. 

 Q. Without wishing to belabor it, were there a lot of cold showers? 
 ANTHONY BRYAN: They were cold showers. I think we had a hot bath once a week. (Laughter). 

 Q. Would you tell us what your business is? 
 ANTHONY BRYAN: Well, I've been CEO of three companies in America and I'm now semi-retired but I'm still chairman of one company and vice chairman of two other little small companies that my son works with. My contribution to business is now very modest. People are kind enough to listen to what you say, but they don't pay any attention to it. 

 Q. I can you were elected to DFC (Distinguished Flying Cross), can you tell us how you acquired that great honor? 
 ANTHONY BRYAN: You just stay alive. We did a lot of support of the 8th Army in Italy, so we were doing a lot of dive bombing and supporting the army, shooting up the -- that's a long time ago and that's not very usual now I'm afraid. 

 Q. Still a tremendous achievement. 
 ANTHONY BRYAN: Thank you. 

 Q. When you were flying the planes, did you shoot any -- 
 ANTHONY BRYAN: I'd just prefer not to get onto that subject, if you don't mind. 

 Q. What nationality are you? 
 ANTHONY BRYAN: My family were English and I was born in México, and then I became American when I went over to work in the States. And after today, I think I'm an honorary Scotsman. 

 Q. Could you comment on Anthony he's style of play, and any examples where he improved the team's score? 
 GARY ORR: You could see he was a good player in his day. But today was tough for him. It was cold and it's tough going for everybody out there. 

 Q. Any examples where he improved the team score? 
 GARY ORR: I can't remember much about the round to be honest. It was a blur. 

 Q. Do we know your lowest-ever handicap? 
 ANTHONY BRYAN: Well, I think I was a 1 for about five minutes. Most of the time it was about 4. But you would never know it now. 

 Q. Since you've been over 80, what has been your best gross score? 
 ANTHONY BRYAN: Well, I've shot my age several times. I've been in the 70s, but usually it takes a lot of luck to do that. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT