NBA FINALS: CLEVELAND VS GOLDEN STATE
May 31, 2017
Dahntay Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Do you remember the most excited you ever were to watch a sporting event as a fan?  
DAHNTAY JONES: As a fan?  The NBA Finals.  I think that's always the event for the year in the basketball season among basketball fans.  The Finals is always the moment where you're most excited and you can't wait for it and you look forward to it the most.   
 Q.  Was there one in particular, a couple that stand out for you?  
DAHNTAY JONES: Just watching the Bulls.  I was a kid of that era.  Just watching them dominate and always getting to the Finals, that's the best highlight of my childhood.   
 Q.  Is it amazing to you at all to be a part of a series right now that some people might be anticipating in the same way that folks did that one?  
DAHNTAY JONES: It hasn't been clicking like that.  Being in the middle of it is not as historic as watching it.  I'm just trying to focus on each task in itself and trying to make the most of my minutes.   
When I look back on it, it probably will be.  But at this point, I'm just trying to stay as much business as usual and just try and be as prepared as I can be.   
 Q.  Having gone through this last year, does it help you guys in terms of media and spotlight and all that stuff?  
DAHNTAY JONES: Yeah, it definitely does, having gone through it.  You don't know what to expect with the demand on your time, everything that comes with it.  We're prepared for it and are ready to take everything in stride.   
 Q.  The Cavs and the Warriors.  They're not in the Eastern Conference, but there was a feeling that this could happen, that this would happen.  Did you guys keep tabs on them during the course of the season or even during the playoffs if the game was on?  
DAHNTAY JONES: We all love this game of basketball and we watch all basketball games.  We obviously knew what was going on in the Western Conference.  And keeping tabs, I guess I wouldn't say it like that, but we watched a lot of basketball and we're all updated on what's going on.   
 Q.  With the extra days in between games, does that help or hurt you going from Game 1 to Game 2?  
DAHNTAY JONES: I think that helps.  I think the extra days is a chance for rest and for adjustments and just for guys to get their legs under them because it's been such a long season.  I think it definitely is helpful.   
 Q.  How does this team compare to last year's team?  
DAHNTAY JONES: This team is more talented and deeper.  It's more of a veteran presence on this team.  I think it's a tighter-knit unit than last year, even though that team was extremely tight and guys really enjoyed playing with each other, enjoyed being around each other.  The business attitude amongst our team is awesome.  Everybody's prepared.  Everybody's coming in here locked in, ready to play and ready to do their job.  So it's just an amazing team to be a part of.   
 Q.  Tougher team than last year, or just different?  
DAHNTAY JONES: Just different.  I think the toughness is still there.  We're a lot different than last year, but it's still a team that can do a lot of different things and adjust and put a lot of different units out there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT