NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 15, 2014
George McNeill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CHRIS REIMER:   Can you start by talking about what you're looking forward to tomorrow and being in contention? 
GEORGE McNEILL:   Being in contention, just getting here, I haven't played much, this is only my third event this year, coming off an injury back in November, so I haven't been able to play much. 
So getting out here and actually playing and playing decent golf and giving myself an opportunity, just whether I can win or not, great.   Just to have a good finish would be in my mind right now, I'm pretty excited about that, too. 

Q.   What was the injury?
GEORGE McNEILL:   I broke my collarbone. 

Q.   How was the recovery process?
GEORGE McNEILL:   Just rest and rehab.   I got back in the gym probably about a month afterward and it was a very slow process, and then just working through that and getting the muscles around my neck‑‑ I broke my left collarbone.   Muscles in the neck and the shoulder area, just to get strength again and everything else. 
My first week back was Scottsdale, and I didn't play very well, and it was‑‑ everything was real tight and I was in the trailer every day, but just getting out and beating balls and playing and getting my body back used to swinging at it on a regular basis has helped a lot, and last week it felt a lot better, even with the cold weather and this week it's feeling much better.   Every once in awhile I get a little twinge or something but it's nothing like it was so I'm very comfortable with the way I'm swinging at it and what I'm doing.

Q.   Is this your favorite course on the West Coast? 
GEORGE McNEILL:   My first year here, my rookie year in 2007, I just fell in love with this place.   It's a really cool, traditional golf course, which to my game and my eye, I really enjoy that.   Some of the courses that we've gone away from, even the course we play in Milwaukee, really cool place, we don't play there anymore unfortunately.   But Tampa, another one.   Just stuff like that, I just like the way they look, and for whatever reason, I play good sometimes and I play bad sometimes, but I still like being out here. 

Q.   Are you on a medical?
GEORGE McNEILL:   No, I just missed the first three events.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT