THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
November 7, 2013
George McNeill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   George McNeill joins us, 8‑under par at the time of the suspension.   Great playing out there, if we can just get some comments on your round.
GEORGE McNEILL:   Thanks.   I've made eight birdies so far.   I don't know how else to ‑‑ made a few putts, a couple of putts not expected.   One from off the green on 16 and another one from off the green on 1.   It was in that span I made five birdies in a row.   Other than that I'm just hitting decent shots but making putts.

Q.   Where do you sit right now?
GEORGE McNEILL:   Getting ready to hit a putt on 8.   So we hit our tee shots and our second shots into 8.   I got a putt for birdie and then got to play No. 9.

Q.   Did they end it right about when they should have?   Do you think they should have ended earlier? 
GEORGE McNEILL:   It was fine the way it was.   It wasn't‑‑ I wouldn't say earlier or later.   It was just fine.

Q.   What's your theory on waiting to putt in the morning as opposed to ‑‑
GEORGE McNEILL:   I couldn't really read it, so that was the whole theory.   I actually couldn't really read the putt I had on 7; I just knew what it was going to do. Therefore, I just hit it where I had a pretty good idea what it was doing.   Fortunately, I had about a 6‑footer and I made it for birdie. 
But the tee off wasn't that tough.   But when you get‑‑ the cloud cover has made it tough, the sun going down and everything.   Once you get down real low to the ground, you can't really read the putts and what they're doing. 
Carl Peterson and I, we decided ‑‑ we hit our shots and everything.   Everybody was on the green.   We just decided not to putt. 

Q.   How different is this course without the wind like today versus the last couple of days?
GEORGE McNEILL:   It's night and day.   It's not even comparable. 
On Tuesday, it was blowing obviously 20 to 25 or 30, or however hard it was blowing.
Today it was blowing one to three.   So big difference, big difference.   The golf course played a lot shorter today than what it did in the practice rounds.   A lot of the holes‑‑ the course is a little bit soft.   I guess they've had a lot of rain here recently, so the course is a little bit soft yet and the ball is not rolling.   So then all of a sudden those holes are playing into the wind as well, so that makes it even longer.   So, yeah, big difference between the first Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and today. 

Q.   Does this feel any different than previous years?   Have you officially started a new season?
GEORGE McNEILL:   It does a little bit, yeah.   Talking to all the players, everybody ‑‑ it was kind funny.   I played the first playoff event, which was Barclays, and then I had six weeks off.   So seeing all these guys coming back at Frys and everybody is going, hey, happy new year.   And it was October.   So it's kind of weird to usually say happy new year in January.   You're seeing these guys either at Sony or the Hope or whatever or Humana, I guess.   Yeah, it's different, but it's a got a good feel. 
I think a lot of players are starting to welcome and understand it and realize that ‑‑ and especially myself, I've never really played well on the West Coast to start the year.   So if I can play well to start the year with these fall events, it can give me a little jump start to having a decent year.

Q.   Do you always feel like every year you're behind?
GEORGE McNEILL:   A little bit of that, yeah.   I like Sony and I've played okay there.   But when I get to California, I'm clueless.   With the poa anna greens and along the coast, I don't have a lot of experience on that.   Yeah, I do feel like I'm a little behind.   Again, I played ‑‑ in years past I've played all right in the fall no matter where the events are.   That's where I'm trying to get a jump start.

Q.   You said your birdie on what green?
GEORGE McNEILL:   16 and 1, yeah. 

Q.   What were you thinking after the birdie on one? 
GEORGE McNEILL:   Five in a row, yeah.   Then I hit it about eight feet on 2.   Hit a good putt, just misread it a little bit.

Q.   Were you upset? 
GEORGE McNEILL:   No, not at all.   I figured I stole a few on a couple of the other holes.   So I was just trying to keep the momentum.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
GEORGE McNEILL:   Actually, yeah.   When I made five, I think I was 6‑under.   And then I made another birdie to go to 7.   I'm going, okay, how many holes do I have left and what are they.   Par‑5, par‑3, whatever.   I was just running through the remaining holes.   I thought, well, if I can birdie there and eagle there and birdie there, and then I had about a 4‑footer for par.   I'm going, wow, I need to quit thinking about this stuff and just continue on what I'm doing right now.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT