FRYS.COM OPEN
October 12, 2013
George McNeill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Fun to watch.   Was it fun for you?  
GEORGE MCNEILL:   It was a lot of fun.   62, I don't know how it could ever be not fun.   I enjoyed it.   Made a lot of putts.  
   
 Q.   What aspects of your game were working so well today?  
GEORGE MCNEILL:   Mostly putting.   Hit it pretty good.   Drove it a lot better than the first two days.   Figured out something on the range last night and my swing was much more comfortable today.   Felt free so I could go ahead and aim at some flags.  
Pulled it off and made some putts.  
   
 Q.   You've won a couple times on the PGA TOUR.   What does it do for your outlook tomorrow?  
GEORGE MCNEILL:   We'll see what happens.   I've had a couple final groups this year.   Once was at Quail Hollow and Charlotte and didn't play very well.   Every day is different and every week is different.  
I am feeling a lot more comfortable.   
   
 Q.   Final thing:   You're a Florida State product, and the guy right now you're currently tied for the lead with is also a Florida State product.   An interesting story during the commercial break that he actually got some advice from you a couple years back.   
GEORGE MCNEILL:   Yeah, well, it was set up by Trey Jones, coach at FSU.   Called me and said, hey, would you mind talking to this guy?   His name is Brooks Koepka.   He just qualified for the Open.   
So I was talking to him, he was asking some stuff about caddies, whether he should take a friend or get a TOUR caddie.   So I gave him the good and the bad on both sides.   At least my thoughts on it.   I have no idea whether he took a TOUR caddie or a buddy.   I think he ended up taking a friend of his.  
But we just had a nice talk.   Honestly I've never met him.   Never seen him in person.   I would like to.   The way it looks I might be playing with him tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Yeah, you might meet him tomorrow.  
GEORGE MCNEILL:   Anyhow, I always pull for the FSU guys.   Jonas the same.   Hopefully it works out.  
   
 Q.   When you won it was at Grayhawk, right?   
GEORGE MCNEILL:   No, it was in Vegas.   
   
 Q.   You've won twice and neither got to you into the Masters.   Correct, you haven't played there, right?  
GEORGE MCNEILL:   No, I've never played there, no.   I'm going for the record to win the most times without qualifying.   I know now it's changed.   Other than Puerto Rico and Reno.   
   
 Q.   True, and (indiscernible).   
GEORGE MCNEILL:   That's gonna move to the fall next year.   
   
 Q.   Any thoughts on that?   
GEORGE MCNEILL:   About going to the Masters?   
   
 Q.   About that possibly being there now.   
GEORGE MCNEILL:   Good.   I'm glad.   I'm glad that they changed their rules for their allowances into the tournament.   A lot of guys out here ‑‑ back in the day it was always you win a tournament, you get in the Masters.  
You could ask anybody when they won, What's the greatest thing about winning?   They go, I get to go to Augusta.   That's kind of back where it is again.   
So if that happens, I'll be looking forward to it.   If it doesn't, I'll have more opportunities the rest of this year.  
   
 Q.   What made you decide to play this week?  
GEORGE MCNEILL:   Past champion of Frys.com Open, so the Frys brothers, Dave, Randy, and John, and also Kathy Kolder, Duke Butler, all the people out here just treat us past champions and all the players just with‑‑ they welcome us and everything else.  
I've played okay at this golf course in the past.   I have never shot like anything like this.   I have my lowest nine hole, my personal best nine holes on TOUR.   I shot 28 on the front nine out here a few years ago.  
So coming back and seeing some guys and seeing some ‑‑ and also it's the start of the year.   If I play well in these events this fall, then I can maybe adjust my schedule a little bit in the spring.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT