FRYS.COM OPEN
October 12, 2013
George McNeill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   George, pretty nice finish there:   Four in a row to post a course record tying 62 and at the moment, tied for the lead.   Well done.   
GEORGE MCNEILL:   Thanks.   I appreciate it.   Didn't really expect that after the way I felt with my swing the first two days.   Figured a little something out on the range last night, and again felt comfortable this morning before I tee'd off.   
Obviously made quite a few putts.   That always helps.  
   
 Q.   What's is it about you and Jimmy Walker posting 62s here in the third round?  
GEORGE MCNEILL:   I have no idea.   Jimmy, doesn't surprise me with him.   He absolutely kills it and he's been known to make a few putts.   I honestly haven't played well.   I'll continue this year, 2013.   
So to get a good round like that and get maybe some momentum going into obviously tomorrow and next week, it would be nice.  
Hopefully gets a little more comfortable.  
   
 Q.   This is a time of year you've been successful before.   What was the key to your round?  
GEORGE MCNEILL:   Putts.   I made a lot of putts.   I missed one short one.   It was 3‑putt on 12.   I didn't let it bother me.  
I hit it nicely, but on top of that I made the putts when I had the opportunities.   
   
 Q.   You're a little over an hour over ahead of the last group out there.   Are the greens a little bit softer during the day?  
GEORGE MCNEILL:   They're still soft; they're still acceptable.   The fairways are running.   So put that combination with very little to no wind and there are opportunities out there.  
So with guys, I'm sure there will be probably a few more good scores coming in.   Just happy to get mine.   
   
 Q.   Four birdies in a row to finish up at 13‑under.   How does that feel?   
GEORGE MCNEILL:   Feels good.   Any time you can make four in a row, doesn't matter if it's finishing, starting, whatever it is on the golf course, it's always nice make some good putts and good shots.  
   
 Q.   How important was it for you to go low today?  
GEORGE MCNEILL:   Well, any day is good to go low, especially is a Saturday.   Puts you in position for one more round obviously tomorrow.   We'll see how that works out.   
I haven't played well really all year, so to have three decent rounds in a row gives me a little confidence.   Hopefully it'll continue tomorrow and into next week.  
   
 Q.   You also tied the course record as well.   
GEORGE MCNEILL:   Right.   Yeah, I saw Jimmy Walker, he posted it right in front of me.   I honestly had no idea what the course record was.   Wasn't thinking about it or really could care less about it.   Was just really trying to play well.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT