WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2013
George McNeill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Welcome to the final day and you're heading into it in good shape.   How did it go for you? 
GEORGE McNEILL:   It went okay.   I had a couple of loose swings at times, kind of the middle of the round was decent and then gave one back at the last which doesn't make you happy.   But, overall, I felt like I played okay.

Q.   With the golf course playing as long as it has this week, how does that translate into tomorrow with what we think is going to be a wet one? 
GEORGE McNEILL:   I'm sure the officials will go out there and set the golf course up accordingly.   They're usually pretty good about that.   But it's supposed to be windy as well, so it's going to be a fun day.   Kind of like a British Open versus a Wells Fargo, but I guess we'll get out there and figure it out when we get there.

Q.   You mentioned the winds were up a little more today than they have been in the first few days. 
GEORGE McNEILL:   They were and a little different angle too.   So it's virtually the same.   They messed with you on a lot of shots and you had to pay attention to quite a few.   We play outside and you're in it, so that's going to happen.

Q.   Being in striking distance, how do you prepare for tomorrow with the early start and being amongst the leaders? 
GEORGE McNEILL:   Same way I did today, I just have to get up a little earlier to do it.   There is obviously going to be some rain jackets and umbrellas and everything else trying to keep everything dry and still play good golf.   Like I said, I'll just figure it out when I get out there.

Q.   The early start problematic? 
GEORGE McNEILL:   No, I don't mind getting up early.   I don't think anybody else does.   We do it at least one day on Thursday or Friday every week.   It actually almost takes a little of the pressure off.   You don't get to think about it as long.   Hopefully you transition right into it and get out and play.

Q.   How quickly did you realize you went from 2‑back to tied for the lead? 
GEORGE McNEILL:   I was a little bit, but Phil looked like he was kind of moving ahead of everyone, and then I don't know what he did on 16, but it looked like either 15 or 16 he had kind of a mess‑up.   Then Nick, with the shot that he hit on 17, that actually shook me up probably more than it shook him up.   So I had to pay a little more attention on my tee shot and everything else. 
Honestly, I didn't even know until I was standing on 18 green, and then I looked and I'm like, oh, wow, I'm tied for the lead.   Obviously, I don't want to make bogey there and drop out.   But if we get to play tomorrow, I'll hopefully get that shot back.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT