WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 3, 2013
George McNeill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  GEORGE McNEILL:   I wouldn't say that, it was windy and the wind was swirling today.   There are some low numbers out there because the greens are soft.   They're not putting great, but the greens are soft, so you can still aim at the flags and try to get close in.   
So I didn't feel like I had to shoot a low one.   I just kind of plodded along and made some birdies here and there and not too many mistakes and we'll see where I end up.  
   
 Q.   You said you weren't playing too well.   What about today and yesterday do you think you can bring that into the weekend?   
GEORGE McNEILL:   I shouldn't say I haven't been playing that well.   Just I haven't been playing the way I want to.   Finishing 35th and 40th every week isn't really, in my mind, playing all that well.   
So I've played well here in the past and I like the way this course sets up and I like the way it looks.   So coming back here I've had good finishes, and I've had a lot of confidence or I've played well and finished well here.   So it gives me an idea that I can do it here and maybe this will get my year started.  
   
 Q.   Since winning last year, you haven't had a top 10.   You mentioned you're finishing 25th, 30th.   You're not playing great, but you're not playing bad, is that how you'd characterize it?   
GEORGE McNEILL:   Yeah, absolutely.   Maybe just one round or maybe even one nine holes.   Last week I shot‑‑ I was 4‑over through ten holes in the first round.   I came back and finished 7‑under for the event.   If I shoot even or whatever on the first nine holes that's still not playing all that great.   But if I maybe do something a little better, it's maybe a different week.  
   
 Q.   When you said you were 4‑over through the first one through ten holes, what kind of mistakes were you making or just getting bad breaks or a combination of things?  
GEORGE McNEILL:   No, just bad swings.   I swept hooked one out of bounds on the very first hole of the tournament last week.   So that doesn't really get you off to a good start making double.   Then making another double and having an unplayable hitting into the trees and stuff like that.     
If you hit bad shots, you're going to get bad results.   So maybe just a little more focus, trying to hit it in position instead of just trying to swing at it.  
   
 Q.   Is that something swing change‑wise or just once in a while you make a bad swing at a bad time?   
GEORGE McNEILL:   You just make a bad swing at a bad time.   It happens. It's golf and everybody does it.   I've been working a little bit on my swing.   It's, yeah, a little bit of confidence.   Actually playing in golf tournaments instead of‑‑ that was my first week back in three‑and‑a‑half weeks, so getting back into tournament mode is a little different.  
   
 Q.   You've been out here six or seven years now?   
GEORGE McNEILL:   Seven years.  
   
 Q.   You've won a couple of times, so you know it's a game where you're going to have some good weeks and bad weeks, and you've been able to capitalize on your good weeks, right?   
GEORGE McNEILL:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   There are plenty of guys out here that haven't won as much as you.   So I guess that's something to look forward to.   Just heading into the weekend here at 7‑under, it's going to be pretty bunched, but do you feel pretty good about your chances this weekend?   
GEORGE McNEILL:   Yeah, I feel fine.   If I don't win, I'm fine with that.   If I do win, great,   that's why we're out here.   
But just looking forward, I'm trying to get a little confidence and a little motivation and a little forward movement for the rest of the season.   I think I've made nine out of ten cuts, but my best finish was 28th or something at the very first event.   So it would be nice to kind of get maybe even top 25.   I'd obviously like to finish better this week because I'm in position to, but really just moving forward and start stringing some better rounds together.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT