PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 8, 2013
George McNeill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just talk about your round today.   You got it going there in the middle part of it.   
GEORGE McNEILL:   Uh‑huh.  
   
 Q.   What was going well for you?  
GEORGE McNEILL:   I was making putts.   I hit it fairly close on some holes, and all in all I made putts.   
I made a great par save on 12, which kind of got me going because I birdied 13, 14, 15, 16, eagled 18 and birdied 1 and 2.   But it just kind of jump started me with that save on 12.   I was looking at making double and I ended up making par.   Just kind of got me going.  
   
 Q.   Looks like you, Ryo Ishikawa and Henrik are right back in a familiar spot as last year.   Going to see a lot of them this weekend it looks like.   
GEORGE McNEILL:   Yeah.   They're both obviously good players, good guys, and they played well here last year, just like you said.  
Guys get comfortable on golf courses and tend to keep it going, so seems like that's what we're doing.  
   
 Q.   Now, yesterday in your round, you came off you looked a little frustrated obviously.   You missed a short one at 18.   Did you take out some frustration today on ‑‑  
GEORGE McNEILL:   A little bit, but this morning the greens were ‑‑ they were rolling nice.   A little more consistent with speed, and yesterday afternoon they had grown a little bit and the humidity was up, so they were a little slower and a little grainier in the afternoon, which I think they'll have to encounter this afternoon with all players.   But this morning they were real consistent and everything, so it was easier to judge the speed and the line and everything.   So yeah, I was a little frustrated with shooting what I did, and obviously missing a little short one on the last.   But I think I got most of it back today.  
   
 Q.   Gotta be happy going into the weekend in a familiar spot.   Seems like you've been towards the top of the leaderboard the last two years.   
GEORGE McNEILL:   Yeah.   Yeah.   We'll see how it pans out.   But obviously I've done okay here the past two years.   So we'll see.  
   
 Q.   You like your position?  
GEORGE McNEILL:   Yeah.   Yeah.   I mean anywhere close to the lead or leading is always good.   And if I can just continue to play and putt the way I did today, I think I'll be just fine.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT