PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 6, 2013
George McNeill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You just got done playing the Pro‑Am.   Talk about the conditions.   Do you see any difference from last year to this year?   
GEORGE McNEIL:   The conditions appear the same.   The golf course is a little bit wet, but I hear they had some rain here Monday.  
Other than that, it looks and feels exactly the same.  
   
 Q.   What's it like when you're coming in the gates now?   You see your name as a past champion.   
GEORGE McNEIL:   Right.   
   
 Q.   Are you being treated any different?  
GEORGE McNEIL:   Not necessarily, but I didn't expect nor do I expect to be treated any different.   I'm another player, just like the rest of us here.   There are hundred and so of us.   
It's always good to come back to someplace you played well and feel comfortable.   
   
 Q.   You've played well here the last couple times.   Is there something about the setup that is clicking with you?  
GEORGE McNEIL:   Apparently.   (Laughing.)  
   
 Q.   Can you pinpoint anything?   
GEORGE McNEIL:   I think I hit on this a little bit last year.   It reminds me of home.   I play on a lot of this same grass at home.   Plus I like a little bit of heat and humidity and stuff.   Doesn't bother me.   So that's really about it.   
And I guess for whatever reason, the golf course suits my eye.   
   
 Q.   Do you have much chance to get out on the island?   Obviously seepuertorico.com is a sponsor here.   
GEORGE McNEIL:   Right.  
   
 Q.   What are some the favorite things about the island here?  
GEORGE McNEIL:   Just the island in general.   It reminds me a lot of Hawaii.   It's a lot closer than going all the way to Hawaii, especially from the east coast.  
But I really haven't had a chance to venture out too much.   I've gone and eaten in the past years a couple places just east of here, but I basically stick to the resort and the golf course and what have you.  
But flying in to San Juan and stuff, it's a really neat looking place.   Seeing the fort right on the edge of the clip there and stuff, it's a nice looking place.   
   
 Q.   Sure.   And going back to last year, what do you feel this win did for you in your season last year and your outlook going forward?  
GEORGE McNEIL:   Well, early in the season it gave me obviously a lot of confidence and a lot of ‑‑ I guess I knew I could relax a little.   Not necessary relax with my playing, but with my schedule.   I don't have to play every single week.   I don't like playing every week.  
So allowed me some freedom with that.   I didn't really play that well after here, but I made a lot of cuts last year.   Just never really had any good finishes.   Who knows?   This could be a jump start to this year as well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT