PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 11, 2012
George McNeill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What a way to finish.   On the 16th tee did you realize Ishikawa had tied you and what did you tell yourself?  
GEORGE McNEILL:   No, I was not aware that Ryo Ishikawa had the lead with me.   
I knew that I needed to make a few birdies coming in, and that's the only thing I could really control.   After I birdied 16 and actually walking up to the 17th green, after I hit my second shot is when I saw that he had the lead with me.   So I probably had about a 10 or 12‑footer there, and I said well, I need to make it.   Also, Henrik wasn't too far behind, too, so it was not like it was an easy cake walk, but it was a nice way to win.  
   
 Q.   On the front nine, you bogeyed 5, you bogeyed 6.   What did you tell yourself to be in the tournament and not fall apart?  
GEORGE McNEILL:   Well, when I made the turn and I birdied 8 to be 1‑under on that nine or 1‑under on the day, but I looked at the scoreboard after nine holes, and nobody was pulling away, and it was actually surprising.   I was surprised I was still ‑‑ I didn't think I was ahead by one.   
So I just said, well, I guess nobody's up for making a move, so I'll try and do what I can, and then I proceeded to bogey 11, which made me real happy.   But it's golf.   You have tough days.   The golf course has gotten better.  
   
 Q.   You won before in 2007.   It's been five years since then.   What are the emotions now with victory No. 2?  
GEORGE McNEILL:   Well, I think I was a little dumb, for lack of a better word, in 2007.   I really didn't know any better.   I've been out here a while now.   It's my sixth year, and I've had six second place finishes and two playoff losses, and seems like, wow, it's getting harder and harder and harder to win.  
   
 Q.   What makes it so difficult?  
GEORGE McNEILL:   Just winning.   I mean winning is tough at anything.   Doesn't matter playing golf, playing tennis, trying to be the best person, smartest person in the class.   It's not easy to be the best even if it's only for one week, and that's why it's tough.   And you gotta take in golf what you can and move on.  
   
 Q.   A really good finish here last year helped propel you last year to a good season.   You've got a win here now in Puerto Rico.   Where does this take you?  
GEORGE McNEILL:   I don't know.   We'll see.   I'm not going to say, great, I'm going to win next week.   Obviously it's a confidence booster.   I haven't won, obviously, in a long time.   And I really ‑‑ I had a good year last year, but two seconds, and one of them Webb Simpson won by I think three shots.   I mean yeah, it was second place, but it really wasn't close.   So I don't know.   I don't know what to say about the rest of the year.   Hopefully it'll get better.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT