CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK CLASSIC
November 15, 2009
George McNeill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PHIL STAMBAUGH: Okay, George. Final round 67. It was an exciting day here with a three-way playoff, you and Justin Leonard. Maybe a couple general thoughts about the round and then take us through the playoff, if you can.  
 GEORGE McNEILL: Thoughts on the round, I obviously started off pretty well, 4-under through five holes, making an eagle on No. 4 for another eagle during the round. And then kind of just started hitting some loose shots.   
 And then on 10, actually made a real good up-and-down for birdie there, another couple loose shots on 11 and 12, make bogeys and then come back with birdies on 13 and 14.   
 And actually I finished pretty well. I hit good shots coming down the stretch the whole way, and just couldn't capitalize on any of the putts. Then the playoff.  
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Wonderful par on the first.  
 GEORGE McNEILL: Yeah. First hole I obviously sprayed it way right, another loose shot like I tend to do here and there. I fortunately had a lie and a swing, and that's basically all you can hope for when you hit it in the trees. And I had a little wind down the cart path and I said, well, both those guys had hit it on the green, so I knew I had to do something.   
 So I hit it exactly where I was looking and was lucky to roll it up almost on the green and was a little bit short and made a good up-and-down and nice six-foot par putt to move it on to the next. Obviously I missed the next six-foot par putt.   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: What did you hit on the second playoff hole?   
 GEORGE McNEILL: Oh, I'm sorry. I hit 6-iron on the par-3, and it was perfect club. I just hit it on the right fringe, and you know, kind of had a little up-and-down putt, kind of up the hill and back down the hill, and it got away from me a little bit, didn't come back.   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Okay. Questions. Wait for the mic, please.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about Stephen's putt there? Was it that long? It looked in, it looked like it went halfway down. That was pretty shocking.   
 GEORGE McNEILL: On my putt?   
  
  Q. No, on Stephen's putt.   
 GEORGE McNEILL: Stephen's putt. On the second playoff hole. Oh, he left it a foot short. I don't know if it was going in the middle or not. I was standing to the side, but he left it short.   
  
  Q. (No microphone).  
 GEORGE McNEILL: Mine? Yeah, mine made a full 360. It went down in the hole and came back at me. So obviously that's not what I was looking for. I was looking for it to go in. But I guess we're looking for them all to go in.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 GEORGE McNEILL: Yeah. Yeah. It went down in the hole, and then spit it back out.   
  
  Q. You putted so well all week. Kind of ironic the way it happened. Or how did you feel standing over that last putt?  
 GEORGE McNEILL: I felt fine. Yeah, I felt fine. Actually Carl Pettersson had the same putt in regulation for par, and he missed it to the right, so I knew it was going to break a little bit to the right.   
 And I thought I hit it perfect. Obviously it wasn't, but again, like I said yesterday, and many times before, that's golf. It happens.   
  
  Q. What do you take from this week, George? I mean you had three eagles in the last two days is more than you had all year, I believe. I'm not sure. And you had some great moments and some disappointing moments. Does it even out or is it too soon to say?  
 GEORGE McNEILL: I guess it's maybe too soon to say, but yeah, I did three eagles, actually three par-5s in a row I eagled on Saturday and Sunday to start. To take from the year, I mean I don't know how many eagles I made all year.   
  
  Q. You had four coming into the week.   
 GEORGE McNEILL: All right. Almost doubled it. But to finish off the year the way I did and play real well, obviously I'm looking forward to a little break, but I'm also looking forward to the start of next year.   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Okay. Anything else? George, thank you very much. Enjoy your off season.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT