CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK CLASSIC
November 12, 2009
George McNeill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. George, great round, -4 today. Tell me a little bit about it. 
 GEORGE McNEILL: It was -- obviously the weather isn't what you would consider Florida weather. Feels like New York or something like that. It's a little cold and windy. It's been raining, but I played pretty well considering. (Indiscernible). 

 Q. Now, does the weather change your game at all or change your mindset this morning?
 GEORGE McNEILL: Normally the scores are really low, especially on Palm Course, so you have to realize that maybe the scores won't be as low. 
 I don't know if necessarily (indiscernible). 

 Q. How does the weather affect your play for the rest of the week?
 GEORGE McNEILL: I don't know what the weather's supposed to be for the rest of the week. I think it's supposed to be sunny and a little windy, but sunny and warmer. 
 I'm sure the scores will be lower. As the temperature goes up, the scores will go down. 

 Q. Perfect. I appreciate it. Thanks. George, you're a Florida guy. This is not a Florida day. 
 GEORGE McNEILL: No. Wintertime possibly, but not November. 

 Q. I like the scruffy look. Did it have to do with the early hour this morning, that you had to get up or the cold weather or is that your playoff beard?
 GEORGE McNEILL: Right. It's my somewhat pseudo playoff beard, even though we're past the Playoffs. Yeah. Has is taken more than a day to grow this. 
 Basically I got home from Mississippi and I didn't really shave much in Mississippi and then I got home and I didn't want to shave again, and I said, well, I'll just keep going. All my buddies at home said, man, it looks good.

 Q. There's no reason to get out of bed in Mississippi. Vegas and on from there?
 GEORGE McNEILL: Yeah. I think so. I missed the cut the following week in Scottsdale, but I still hit it pretty well. I didn't score real low there.
 Yeah, I figured (indiscernible). Toward the end of the year --

 Q. Good to take advantage at home, 68, taking advantage, all things considered?
 GEORGE McNEILL: I would say all things considered, because obviously there aren't going to be any lower scores. I don't know what the scores are on Mag. 

 Q. They're not as good. 
 GEORGE McNEILL: I would guarantee you they're probably not. (Indiscernible). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT