THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 25, 2016
George McNeill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. George, how proud are you of that round today with the wind blowing?  Those were tough conditions?
GEORGE McNEILL: It wasn't easy obviously.  The wind always blows here.  It's an opposite direction of what it was the first couple days in the practice rounds and the Pro-Am yesterday, and then a little cooler obviously and the course is wet.  It's a little suspect I think conditions-wise, as wet as it's.
Anyhow, I putted pretty phenomenal, so that's really all I did real well and then I kind of got it around and avoided -- well, I made a double on 11.  Hit it in the water.  Goes back to the comment I made earlier about the course being a little wet.
Anyhow, overall, I felt like I played good.
Q. 175 feet of putts you made today, that obviously was the key?
GEORGE McNEILL: Obviously.  You stated it.  I don't need to really comment anymore on that.
Q. Is that one of the things you were working on?
GEORGE McNEILL: I haven't made a putt in two years, so it kind of felt good to see them go in and consistently go in and stuff like that, I didn't expect to make that many.  But it was nice.
Of course, being back in Florida, I feel a little more comfortable, back on bermudagrass and bermudagreens.  The stuff out west, I can't putt out there.  Being back in Florida, it helps.
Q. Last two years, tied for 11th, tied for 12th, good finishes, so obviously you like this place?
GEORGE McNEILL: Yeah, again, I've played okay around here.  I would like to obviously have a little better finish.  But some decent playing and a little more comfortable.
Q. You mentioned you had the putter going today.  Just get some comments on the round.
GEORGE McNEILL: I had the putter going.  That's really all.  Not much else to say.  I hit it okay.  It just seemed like when I got on the green, I made it, or if I didn't make it, it was close to going in.  I don't know how many 1-putts I had but felt like quite a few.
Q. How much did the wind affect play?
GEORGE McNEILL: I think it affects it a bunch.  Whether it's putting or hitting it or anything.  Any time you're standing over a shot, you're getting blown around.  It's not easy, as I think Paul Goydos said one time, we do play outside, so the wind will affect everything.
Q. Did you feel like it should have been ball-in-hand today?
GEORGE McNEILL: I thought it should have been, because it seemed like there was mud on almost every shot out of the fairway.  If you hit it in the rough -- I mean, I hit it in the rough quite a few times but I had mud on it, that's fine.  If you hit it in the rough, that's fine.
But when you hit in the fairway and you're out there struggling in this grainy, thin bermuda and wet, grainy thin bermuda is not fun, not easy and then you're trying to hit with all the conditions as windy as it is, cross-wind, water is in play on 17 out of 18 holes.
I mean, I would have rather played it lift, clean and place, but again, that's not my call.  That's for the officials and that's what they chose to do.
Q. How was the wind --
GEORGE McNEILL: Left-to-right, right-to-left, down, straight in, it was all over the place, but it was blowing the same direction all day but just every hole goes in a different direction.  There were some tough holes into the wind, some tough holes downwind.
But the greens are soft, so that helps being able to hold it downwind.  The course is hard.  No really other way to say it.  It's just a tough golf course.
Q. What was the way you've been putting?
GEORGE McNEILL: I've been putting terrible --
Q. Today.
GEORGE McNEILL: I don't know, I just close my eyes and hit it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT