FRYS.COM OPEN
October 25, 2008
George McNeill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE: We'd like to thank George McNeill for joining us, 4-under 66 today in the third round of the FRYS.com Open. I guess the key so far is accuracy. You've missed three greens all week, each of which came on Friday. Just a few comments, and you're gearing up for the final round.   
 GEORGE McNEILL: Obviously I just want to continue to do what I've been doing. I feel like I'm swinging at it and hitting it pretty well. The three greens yesterday, one of them was I think a legitimate miss, but the other two I hit it on the fringe and spun it back off the green with wedges. I feel like I'm swinging at it pretty well. I'm putting absolutely horrid, but that's how I feel. But worse comes to worst, I'm in pretty good position.   
  
  Q. Why have you been so accurate? What's happening with your game?  
 GEORGE McNEILL: I don't know. It's October (laughter). I'm ready for the year to be over, and I'm looking forward to obviously tomorrow and the last two events.   
 I don't know, I've always played pretty well towards the end of the year. Last year was my only year on the PGA TOUR, or the only thing I have to go off of for that, but in previous -- just playing mini-Tours and playing golf in general. I was born in October, so I don't know if that has something to do with it. I have no idea why; that's just the way it goes.  
  
  Q. Is the course here anything like the course in Vegas that you played when you won last year?  
 GEORGE McNEILL: Similar, yeah, desert golf. It's dry and the ball goes a lot farther, or at least I seem to think so. But if you miss the fairways you can hit it up in the junk and up in the cactus and whatever else is out there. This is very similar to that, except I think it's a lot tighter than the Vegas golf course.   
  
  Q. After hitting a 4-iron on 17, Goydos says, McNeill probably hit about an 8-iron.   
 GEORGE McNEILL: 7-iron, but I hit 3-wood off the tee.   
 DOUG MILNE: Do you know offhand, is 129 your lowest 36-hole total?   
 GEORGE McNEILL: On the PGA TOUR, yeah, probably. I've played in other tournaments where I've shot lower for two days, but PGA TOUR, I think so.  
  
  Q. Now, you said your putting wasn't great but you had four birdie putts, including like a 26-footer on 17. Does that give you --  
 GEORGE McNEILL: You've got to luck them in somewhere.  
  
  Q. Does that give you any confidence going into tomorrow with your putter? Your back nine was solid.   
 GEORGE McNEILL: I try not to get too frustrated with it. My three bogeys this week have been three-putts. I'm hitting a lot of greens, and it's not like I'm hitting them 30, 40 feet every time. I'm hitting them six, eight feet and just can't make them.   
 It usually happens -- when I see my card, it's happening the first three holes where I've had a three-putt for a bogey and then move on for the rest of the day and then go and play all right. But I don't know, it's just -- yeah, I'm not very confident with my putter right now, but I've been working on it every day afterward. But it's the same ol', same ol' when I show up. I don't know, we'll see.   
 DOUG MILNE: If you wouldn't mind real quick running us through your birdies, giving us some clubs.   
 GEORGE McNEILL: Today, birdie on 4, par-5, just hit a driver and a 5-iron just short of the green right on the front edge and chipped up and made birdie. I could make that one. It was like two feet, so I had a pretty good chance there.  
 No. 10, 3-iron and a pitching wedge to about six feet. I made that.   
 No. 11, a driver and a 5-wood just over the back edge and then chipped it up to a couple inches and tapped it in.  
 No. 15, that's the drivable par-4. I hit it just short of the green with a driver and then chipped up to about six feet or so, made that.   
 Then on 17 it was a 3-wood and a 7-iron to about 25 feet or 30 feet or so and shook that one in.   
 DOUG MILNE: Thanks for your time. As always, we appreciate it. Best of luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT