THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 2, 2015
George McNeill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Back-to-back rounds you've had an ace here at the Greenbrier.  That's pretty interesting.GEORGE McNEILL: Sure, it's interesting to say the least.  I don't know what to say about it other than there's a lot of luck involved.  Obviously you've got to hit a good shot, but there's a lot of luck involved for it to go in.Q. A lot of new friends on 18?GEORGE McNEILL: A lot of new friends on 18, yeah, they were all thanking me and I walked off.  As I stole a line from Bubba Watson, I said, "you're welcome." Again, it kind of got me kick-started.  I played okay the whole day and just -- but that obviously helps.Q. Is this a special place for you now after last year?GEORGE McNEILL: After last year?  It's a nice place, and yeah, there's a lot of thoughts walking around here, absolutely, there's a lot of -- I'd say it's probably a little more special than some others, but I try not to think about that and just play golf.  But obviously it's always going to be in my thoughts this time of year, for obvious reasons. Yeah, just again, go around and play some golf and hopefully hit some good shots and get some lucky ones, as well.Q. How many aces have you had on TOUR; do you have any idea?GEORGE McNEILL: I think that's my third on TOUR and about eight total, I think.Q. Better than most.GEORGE McNEILL: I'll take every one of them.Q. First thing that went through your mind when that goes in the hole?GEORGE McNEILL: First thing, we couldn't see it from the tee, and just people started screaming and yelling, and my caddie looked over, and he goes, I think you got a car.  I go, well, I don't know, I guess we'll find out when I get finished.  But guys come up and high-five and everything else.  It was just -- again, I didn't know what to think.  I just kind of high-fived everybody, said great, and moved on.Q. Do you know now, do you get a car?GEORGE McNEILL: I have no idea.  There was a sign down there yesterday, and it said for the hole -- but I don't know if it was on the weekend or just the pro-am or what.  I have no idea.  I'm sure I'll find out.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT