CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 22, 2015
George McNeill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Good, solid play.   I know the round yesterday, you worked really, really hard for.   But it was tough getting started again today.  
GEORGE McNEILL:   It was tough.   Raining from the first hole.   Well, I started on 10, so the 10th hole through the 14th hole, and then as soon as it stopped on 14, I made my first bogey, so I kind of sloshed it around and played decent in that rain and managed, but it wasn't easy.   It wasn't easy at all.   The rough was just as thick or worse than the first few days.   
You know, I'm pleased with the way I finished and put together a decent round on the front nine and kind of salvaged the Back 9.  
   
 Q.   Bear with me on this question because it's going to be kind of weird but it seems like the last hour the golf course has gotten more moisture in it.   When it was raining it seemed almost dryer than it was.   There's so much water in the fairways right now.   Every shot I saw you playing in the last hour, big splashes and a lot of mud puddles.   
GEORGE McNEILL:   Maybe the course is fully saturated.   I don't know.   Maybe it just got to that point.   Everything that you said I agree with.   
Again, we're trying out there to just manage it and get away with some stuff, and miss the ball in the right spots, and I wasn't real comfortable with my swing, once again, today.   
So again, managed, I salvaged a decent round and I'm happy to be around for the weekend.  
   
 Q.   That's big, around for the weekend.   Three to five inches of rain.   Are you guys racing inside to find out how big a motor you're going to put on the boat you're going to need to play this week?  
GEORGE McNEILL:   Yeah, that or a canoe, hopefully.   A motor might tear up the greens and the fairways, but the canoes we can move around pretty quietly.   
We're all aware of it, and it's unfortunate because this is such a great golf course.   We love it, and I think everything loves when it plays hard and fast.   That's the way I think it was designed.   
But we'll get out there and play.   The scores aren't‑‑ nobody is going away, running away with it, so we'll see what happens.  
   
 Q.   Thanks to the condition of the golf course, probably the best shape it's ever been in and it needs to be when it's like this.  
GEORGE McNEILL:   Yeah.   It's a lot of fun when it plays the way they designed it.   Again, we'll manage and we'll get around and have some fun.  
   
 Q.   Thanks for your time.   Good luck on the weekend, I hope.  
GEORGE McNEILL:   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT