PENN STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 12, 2013
Jordan Lucas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   I was wondering like at this point in the season, mid‑November, you guys have been practicing for three months, are you in general like just more tired easier?   How do you stay energized at this point of the year?   
JORDAN LUCAS:   You're just motivated to finish the season, and you know, come out victorious.   Of course you're going to be tired, and everybody has bumps and bruises this time of the year, but it's real important to take care of your body.   We have ice tubs, hot tub, and just push through and stay healthy.   
   
 Q.   So like at the beginning of the season, do you feel just like completely fresh?   How does that compare to now?   Does your body just have a certain different feel to it almost?   
JORDAN LUCAS:   No, not really a different feel.   A lot of it is mental.   You can get through a lot of things mentally.   That's exactly what it is.   Of course you're not the same as you were coming into the season, but that's a part of the game.  
   
 Q.   Do you do like the cold and hot tubs like weekly or every other couple days or how often?  
JORDAN LUCAS:   No, that's every day.   You want to take care of your legs.   
   
 Q.   You played a little bit last year towards the end of the season a little bit more, but you've been obviously one of the more staple pieces of the defensive secondary this year.   What have you seen as the biggest change from last year to this year in your development?  
JORDAN LUCAS:   Confidence.   I would have to say my confidence.   It just keeps‑‑ confidence keeps rising.   You try not to have any setbacks, and when you do, you just have to learn from it.   I think that's the biggest change in my game from last year to this year.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
JORDAN LUCAS:   I think every game is a learning experience.   I'm not going to say I have any specific setbacks that I've learned from.   I think every game.   
   
 Q.   How have the seniors on this team kind of helped you guys move on from losses?   I think Mike Hull said sometimes they talk right after the game, sometimes it's Monday.   What have they said that's helped the team bounce back?   
JORDAN LUCAS:   Just keep fighting.   You know, our seniors do a very good job of getting in our younger guys' ear.   I'm a younger guy myself, but they do a very good job of letting us know that we have a lot to play for, and we need to go out strong.   They do a very good job of that.   
   
 Q.   Your opponent has struggled offensively, but how do you guys head into this game trying to prepare for them and not overlooking them so that you're not the team‑‑ they haven't won a conference game yet, and clearly you guys don't want to be the first.   How do you try not to overlook them and what do you see from them offensively?  
JORDAN LUCAS:   Well, first off, we don't overlook anybody because any team can be beaten.   They're a good Purdue team.   They're very athletic, and they're fast.   They do a lot of different things on offense, and we just want to piggy back off the of the second half of the Minnesota game and just grow from there.   We don't want to take a step back from there, we want to keep on going.   That's what we're looking to do this week in practice and on Saturday.   
   
 Q.   Purdue is a team that's obviously struggled offensively this year.   Watching them on film, is there anything you see in particular that they may not do well that you as a defense would be able to take advantage of?  
JORDAN LUCAS:   Right now I'm not really‑‑ I can't really answer that question.   I feel it's very early in the week.   I feel I have to do some more film work myself.   But I can't give you an answer to that question right now.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT