MOUNTAIN WEST WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 10, 2019
Ryun Williams
Tatum Neubert
Mollie Mounsey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Utah State - 62, Colorado State - 59
COACH WILLIAMS: … Dufficy is a very, very good player.  They play well together.  I thought our kids were exceptional in their fight tonight.  I thought we guarded really good.  They just made a few more winning plays than we did.
But our second half was, it was strong.  It was competitive.  It was a winning half.  And we put ourselves in a position to win the basketball game.  And I'm proud of our kids for that.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athletes.
Q. Tatum, obviously final play, you guys aren't able to get a shot up, what's going through your head during that whole sequence?
TATUM NEUBERT: I mean, it's hard to say what was going through my head at that last moment.  Obviously I should have gotten a shot up.  But I think that it doesn't come down to one last play.  I think it comes down to all of the other plays that were made throughout the game that we could have finished and we didn't.  But it's a team thing.
So I could have gotten a shot off.  I could have put one up for my team.  But I'm not going to blame myself for that.  So, yeah.
Q. What does it say about your guys' team, being able to come back after they kept hitting free throws?  Every time they went to the line they just kept hitting them, and you came right back.  What does that say about your team?
MOLLIE MOUNSEY: I think we really fought tonight.  Like, we've had a rough season.  Not going to lie.  But I think we really fought and showed like we have heart.  And I think that's really what matters.
TATUM NEUBERT: I think that if anything, we showed that we could be respected and our game could be respected.  And I think that for us it was fun to play this game because we were playing together and we were playing hard.  And that's a team that I know that we are and that we showed tonight.  For us it feels good that we played as a team and we just worked together.
Q. You guys obviously took the lead into the fourth quarter.  Then they go on a 11-0 run.  What were they doing that gave you fits in that last part?
COACH WILLIAMS: Dufficy made some tough shots, but the O boards got us.  They rebounded the ball extremely well and I think that's kind of what got us.  Gave them a few extra possessions.
West hits the big 3.  24 sparks them a little bit.  And so I thought the start of the fourth was obviously critical.  We went up and immediately down 10.  But the kids fought.  I think we made our -- your point on how we ended the game -- I think we scored six out of our last seven possessions, maybe.  Really good execution.  Kids made winning plays.
And that was a good college basketball game.  Hats off to Utah State.  Dufficy, she's a big-time player, made some big-time shots.  So did West.
Q. Both regular-season games were kind of lopsided.  What was the difference in this game?  You guys were going toe to toe and nearly pulled this game off.
COACH WILLIAMS: I think we guarded better in 40 minutes.  We had some stretches in each of those first two games where we either turned it over and created some offense for them or what have you.
But I thought tonight we were really locked in.  Only four turnovers in the second half.  And it's the tournament.  I mean, I think you're going to see a lot of close games.  It's just how it is when you see somebody three times.
Our kids -- they were locked into us; we were locked into them.  So everything is difficult.  They made it difficult on us.  We made it difficult on them.  But just wish we could have got this one.
Q. You are really familiar with this team it seems, but were there any surprises from playing Utah State tonight?
COACH WILLIAMS: I don't know if we were surprised by really anything.  They did the same stuff they usually do.  So, no.  I wish I could give you a better answer.  I know you were looking for something, but we weren't surprised by anything.
Q. Tatum, obviously you'd rather go out with a win in your final game.  But just thinking about the entire season as a whole, what's the biggest thing you'll take out of this season?
TATUM NEUBERT: I mean, me and Mollie were just talking about this.  If we were going to go out anyway this is the way we wanted to go out.  We gave everything we had.  And in my final season, I think the spirit that we brought every single practice even though we were losing.
We were coming into practice every day, working just as hard, coming into every game we were working just as hard.  And every practice, everyone had a smile on their face we were ready for the next day every time.  I can't ask for a better team for my last season.
Q. What's your takeaway from the final game; you guys lose, but you look like a different team?
COACH WILLIAMS: Yeah, we played some good ball here lately.  We really have.  It hasn't equaled the wins obviously, but we put some really good stretches together.  But tonight we just did it for a little longer.  So my take on the game is just what I said earlier.
These kids competed.  And like Tatum said, they came and they bought in every day to the plan.  This is how we can beat this team; this is how we need to improve.  And they did it with a wonderful attitude and a wonderful spirit.
And it was Tatum led that charge a lot of the time.  So I'm just happy that Tatum chose to be a Ram.  She's been at a couple other schools, and I'm glad -- I'm proud that we get to call her a Ram and that she finished up as a Ram and got to play a ton of minutes this year and gave everything she had.  As a competitor, that's all you can ask.  And Tatum's been a wonderful player on our roster and a wonderful leader in our locker room.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT