DU MAURIER CLASSIC
August 10, 2000
Kristi Albers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 KRISTI ALBERS: No. 4 was the first hole we came back after the rain delay, and I had
already hit my drive. And I hit a 3-wood down and hit a wedge to 100 yards, and I was
about 15 feet, and I made that for birdie. Then No. 5, I had 155 yards, I hit 6-iron about
20 feet; made that for birdie. At 11, I missed the green to the left -- no, to the right.
Chipped up to about 20 feet and 2-putted. 13, I hit a 4-iron about 12 feet, and made
birdie. And 17, I hit 8-iron about 15 feet and made birdie.  
 
Q. What do you attribute two weeks -- last week, you obviously had a good finish, and
now you're just sort of picking up where you left off. What's going on in your game?
 
 KRISTI ALBERS: That's a good question. Things have not really all come together for me
this year yet. And I started putting well, like earlier in the year, and then I would hit
it well and not make any putts. I've started hitting it a little better. I started putting
really well at the Open, and it's just kind of kept going. I have a little confidence,
feel like I can make a putt every now and then. 
 
Q. Did you do anything special, new putter or anything like that?
 
 KRISTI ALBERS: No. I just started making some putts at the Open, and it got my
confidence up a little bit. Seems like once you get that going, it's good. 
 
Q. Did the rain, by any chance, take some of the wind out of your sails down the
stretch?
 
 KRISTI ALBERS: No, because I birdied two holes right after that. Usually, it's hard for
me, because I have a bad back, and I have to go and stretch. I just have to not get cold.
It's hard for me to have a rain delay, especially because we didn't get to go warm up
again. 
 
Q. How did the course differ before and after the rain?
 
 KRISTI ALBERS: There were a couple of greens that are usually firm that were soft, that
surprised me, that were really soft. 6, the green is usually -- the last two times I
played it, it was firm. And I hit a shot in there today just how I wanted to, and it just
stopped. That surprised me. But other than that, it played about the same. 
 
Q. Did you stay out of the locker room for the rain delay? Did you stay outside?
 
 KRISTI ALBERS: I was in the locker room for a little while. But it wasn't cold in
there. And then when they called us back in again, I went in the fitness van and stretched
a little while. 
 
Q. Kristi, do you think it's tougher to win your first event or your second?
 
 KRISTI ALBERS: My second. For me, it's been my second. My first was -- well, my first
took a while, and my second is definitely taking a while. My third will be really easy
(laughter). 
 
Q. Did this course play tougher than maybe you thought it would? It seemed today or
this morning that the conditions were pretty well perfect for good scores. But look at the
scores, I think there's 15 to 16 people under par.
 
 KRISTI ALBERS: You know, I think it's -- this course is tough because all the par-3s
are into the wind. It seems like all of them are just right directly into the wind. And
that's tough. 
 
Q. Does that mean that you're in a lot of those situations that you're playing an extra
club?
 
 KRISTI ALBERS: Yeah. And two of them are playing over 200 yards. When we went back out
there, there was no wind. When we started playing, there was a little wind. When I went
back out, there was no wind. 
 
Q. Kristi, the big news around here obviously was Lorie's first win. But I think you
did pretty well last week, too. Is that -- do you really feel like this is -- you've sort
of got everything going, and you deserve to be where you are today, and things are just
going to keep going for you?
 
 KRISTI ALBERS: I hope so. With golf, you can never say "I've got it." You can
never, ever say that, because something can come up and bite you. But things have been
going a little better for me, finally. And hopefully, they'll keep going. But I never -- I
don't ever -- I don't want to expect to play well tomorrow. I want to keep going out there
and just keeping hitting it at the fairway and on the green. 
 
Q. Is your husband okay after last week?
 
 KRISTI ALBERS: No. Was he there last week?  
 
Q. Didn't he pass out last week?
 
 KRISTI ALBERS: Well, yeah, kind of.  
 
Q. Is he okay?
 
 KRISTI ALBERS: Yeah, he's all right. He didn't pass out, but somebody else had to caddy
for him my last three holes. 
 
Q. Does he take much ribbing at work?
 
 KRISTI ALBERS: You know, I don't think they really know what happened. I mean, he did a
great job. Probably in a couple of months I can rib him, but not quite yet.  
 
Q. I've always wanted to ask you this, is having a sportscaster as a husband, do you
kind of talk sports all the time? Or is that the least of your conversations when you're
at home?
 
 KRISTI ALBERS: We don't talk sports. We talk St. Louis Cardinal baseball, that's it,
and golf. But we don't really talk -- I'll know what's going on with him at work, what the
local stuff is that he's doing. But, like, he hates on a Saturday or Sunday afternoon, go
and watch a football game or basketball game, if he doesn't have to.  
 
Q. Do you think he'll be caddying anytime soon?
 
 KRISTI ALBERS: Probably not. Well, unless it's about 70 degrees out, he might. 
 
Q. How comfortable were you with the golf course today, before the rain and then after?
Did you feel the same comfort level?
 
 KRISTI ALBERS: Yeah, I did. I felt pretty good both times. As long as I can stay loose,
I feel all right. And you never really know how loose you are until you hit the first shot
out there. But I felt pretty good. I did everything that I possibly could have during the
delay to stay loose, except hit balls, and we didn't have the time to do that.  
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT