WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2013
Kristen Flipkens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. BARTOLI/K. Flipkens
  6‑1, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   When you had the medical timeout, did you feel any better after it or was it a problem throughout?  
KIRSTEN FLIPKENS:   First of all, I'm not going to use it as an excuse, that's for sure.   I mean, Marion played an amazing, good match.   
But I fell in the first set.   Straightaway I didn't feel anything, but I fell on my bad knee.   Yeah, at that moment I didn't feel it, but a couple of games later I started to feel a really sharp pain like I had four weeks ago.   
I'm really trying to handle it already for four weeks.   I'm already playing with the tape so long.   It definitely needs a rest, so...   
   
 Q.   She's a very powerful player, isn't she?   She serves well and returns well.   
KIRSTEN FLIPKENS:   Yeah, definitely.   I mean, all credit to her today, the way she played.   I had nothing to do against her.   I mean, she played an amazingly well match.   I tried my slices.   She didn't have any problem with that.   I tried the dropshot.   She got it.   I played a passing, she came to the net.   I tried a lob.   
I tried everything, actually.   I was trying to give myself 100%, but it didn't work out.   But, yeah.   After all, you know you're in the semis, so it's not going to get easier.  
   
 Q.   What is it like playing against a player who between every shot turns her back and a little fake shot?   Does that routine ever put you off as a player?  
KIRSTEN FLIPKENS:   When I'm preparing my serve I don't see what she's doing.   Yeah, okay, I know when she's returning that she's standing there like, yeah, aggressive.   I don't know how to say it.   
But, yeah, every player has their ritual.   Nothing to say about that.   
   
 Q.   Ten years now since you won junior Wimbledon.   Has that made you believe you can win here again?  
KIRSTEN FLIPKENS:   I think the semis was the maximum I could got to this year.   I mean, I had to play, I don't know, 500% I think to beat Marion today.   She was just too good.   
To have this memory for the rest of my life, ten years after winning the juniors title here, is great.   I mean, I would have signed for that before my career for sure.   
   
 Q.   How nervous were you out there today?  
KIRSTEN FLIPKENS:   Actually, I was fine.   I didn't have any nerves.   I was trying to focus and trying to enjoy every moment out of it, to give myself 100%, as I did also against Kvitova.   
I had already the experience to play on Centre Court.   Actually, the nerves were fine.  
   
 Q.   You gave Marion a lot of credit for the way she played.   Do you feel you reached the levels you reached in previous rounds in your performance today?  
KIRSTEN FLIPKENS:   No, but she didn't let me.   I mean, if you see my last couple of matches I made really a lot of points at the net.   So I was trying to come forward whenever I had the chance, but she just played an amazing lob.   
I'm too small, so she had a good solution for that.   Of course, yeah, when you're coming to the net on grass, you're staying as close as you can be at the net.   I had very good volleys, but she knew that before, I see.  
   
 Q.   Marion said afterwards she was asleep in the locker room from midday until half 12:00.   Did you see her there?  
KIRSTEN FLIPKENS:   No.   She was upstairs in the locker rooms.   Yeah, before this morning they came to ask me downstairs in the locker rooms that I had the privilege to move upstairs if I wanted to.   
I'm superstitious and I stayed where I was.  
   
 Q.   Are you surprised a tennis player can sleep so close to a big match like that?   
KIRSTEN FLIPKENS:   I don't know what her rituals are.   I mean, I just like to sleep long before my match, and then, I don't know, wake up at 9:30 or 9:45 to be prepared, eat some carbohydrates.   
Each player has their own thing to do, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT