FEDCUP FIRST ROUND: BELGIUM v USA
April 22, 2007
Kristen Flipkens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions.   
  
  Q.  You're understandably very upset about the close line call that might have swayed the match.  Can you talk about that and how you felt the point should have been?   
 KIRSTEN FLIPKENS:  You know, if it was out, it would be 30-All.  But that's life.  That's tennis.  People make mistakes.  I already got a few messages that the ball was out.   
 But, I mean, that one point didn't make the match.  I mean, I think we both played an amazing match.  The crowd was great.  It was a really nice experience.  These two matches, these two days, gave me unbelievable confidence for the next weeks.  That was the most important thing.   
  
  Q.  Should Fed Cup have the instant replay and challenge system?   
 KIRSTEN FLIPKENS:  You know, it's really expensive, these things.  We cannot expect to have it on all the tournaments or in Fed Cup.  You know, of course, if I would have a challenge, I would challenge the call for sure.   
  
  Q.  The line call was not a good call, but was the missed overhead even more important than the line call?   
 KIRSTEN FLIPKENS:  You know, the overhead was my own mistake.  The line call wasn't mine.  Yeah, of course it could have made a difference.  But I was cramping all through the third set.  I was lucky to play 7-5 because the way I felt, to me it should have been 6-Love.   
  
  Q.  Did you just try to place that overhead a little too close to the sideline?   
 KIRSTEN FLIPKENS:  No.  I was tired.  I mean, on these points it was such a long rally, you have this ball just to finish.  As I said, it's not just one point that made the difference in the game.  We played like 2 hours, 45 minutes, something like this.  We played a lot more balls than just that one shot.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about the mentality going into the match thinking you're going to play Serena, then playing Vania?   
 KIRSTEN FLIPKENS:  To be honest, I knew that King was going to play.  I had the feeling inside.  It's weird to say, but I was just expecting King to play.  It's a strange feeling, yeah, since yesterday already.  I don't know why.  It was just a feeling that they wanted to give the opportunity to King to get this experience.  If it would have been 2-1, they still have Venus go out there and try to win her match.   
  
  Q.  Today did it feel like a fair fight to you, you playing against Vania King?  You looked pretty evenly matched out there.   
 KIRSTEN FLIPKENS:  I also said to my coach, to the captain, like we were both very good.  It was just not in my advantage that I was stiff from yesterday because I haven't played matches since a long time, not really tough matches.  But I think it was a nice experience.   
 I think King and me, we are on the same level, yeah.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT