FED CUP INTERVIEWS- USA vs. BELGIUM
July 15, 2006
Kristen Flipkens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Kirsten Flipkens, congratulations.  That was a heck of a match.  What an atmosphere.  
 KIRSTEN FLIPKENS:  That was great.  I told you already yesterday that would be awesome to play here, such a great crowd.  I think it's very nice that we play at home with all the crowd behind us, it's always a big advantage.  

 Q.  What were you thinking as the match progressed?  You were up so well in the first set, you came back in the second set, leveled things.  Third set, again you had the advantage.  What was going through your mind in a seesaw match?  
 KIRSTEN FLIPKENS:  I think in the first set, I was 4-1 up, but it was just one break.  It's not like on grass, if you have serve, you can finish the set.  But I think she came back really well.  She's a tough one.  She's already 32 years old so she has a lot of experience.  
 I'm just the young kid.  So it was great.  It was great to play.  I think in the third set at 4-All, I was just going for my shots again, and that was a key point.  

 Q.  And the baby crying towards the end?  Did that disrupt you at all?  
 KIRSTEN FLIPKENS:  No, I mean, it's just coincidence.  No, I didn't care too much.  

 Q.  How important of a factor was this crowd in getting you through this match?  
 KIRSTEN FLIPKENS:  It was amazing.  I mean, of course you're playing in a group, you're playing in a team, and that's the most important.  But I think to have the crowd behind you, it's awesome.  

 Q.  Every player at this level of the sport gets fired up.  On the regular tour, do you get as fired up as you were today in this Fed Cup match?  
 KIRSTEN FLIPKENS:  Also, but not as much probably.  If I make a point and the crowd is going crazy, then you're going crazy as well, of course.  

 Q.  Just finally, Kirsten, tell us about how you felt when you collapsed on the court at the end when you finally secured the match?  
 KIRSTEN FLIPKENS:  Oh, at 5-4, it was such a long game.  I was really getting tired a little because we played two hours and a half almost, something like that.  I was getting in my legs.  
 But I think, yeah, whatever, I won.  

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT