U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2004
Tim Moraghan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RAND JERRIS:  It's our pleasure to be joined this morning by two gentlemen who have been working on the golf course here at Bellerive for the last couple years.  On your left, Tony Mancuso, golf course superintendent at Bellerive, and on the right Tim Moraghan, who is the director of championship's agronomy for the United States Golf Association.  I believe that Tim is going to open up with a few comments, and we'll take any questions from the floor.
TIM MORAGHAN:  Thank you, Rand.  Good morning.  We appreciate everybody being here.  To start with, I'd like to thank everybody here at Bellerive Country Club in the St. Louis area for supporting the 25th United States Senior Open championship this week.  It's a wonderful venue.  I think the players are going to have the ultimate challenge.

We've got a wonderful golf course that's in outstanding condition, and we've heard nothing but wonderful comments to this point from the players, and that's always a good sign on Wednesday morning.

I want to thank Tony Mancuso here to my right, who I've had the pleasure of working with and learning from over the last couple years, who has taken this golf course to truly another level, and I think deserves -- I don't think, I know, he deserves all the credit for everything that has happened this week.

I think the golf course is ready.  We have reached our green speed, which is 12 feet, this morning.  We felt very comfortable about that.  I think the rough is in the type of situation we appreciate for a U.S. Open championship.  I think Tom Meeks and Mike Davis and myself will probably keep an eye on it today and throughout the next day to make sure we don't get it a little too high, but it's always up for further review.  The other areas of the golf course are absolutely wonderful.  There's always the fairways that Tony has groomed that have not only given a good lie for the players, but I think they've given them a perfect lie.  There really, really shouldn't be any issues this week, and I want to thank Tony for he and his staff's hard work and dedication.

TONY MANCUSO:  Well, we're at a point now where we're ready to get this thing going.  It's been a long time coming, particularly since 2001, and I know my staff has been very anxious to work towards this event, and we've had roughly 1,000 days since then.  I remember putting up on the board in the break room the Monday after that week that we had roughly 1,075 days left, and they all kind of chuckled, and I said, "It'll be here before you know it."  So here we are, and the staff is just really excited.

I'm so happy that most of my staff was here in 01, and I'm so happy that they can all get another chance and we're going to get this thing through.

The USGA has been wonderful to work with, and the golf course is I think as ready as it can be.  The weather has been very friendly to us.  I came here from Columbus, Ohio, almost six years ago, and it took me a couple of years to kind of figure things out here.  As I like to tell people, the first two years I was here, I figured out how not to do everything, and I had no idea how tough St. Louis was to grow turf, and I really admire all my colleagues here in St. Louis.  It's amazing the longevity here in St. Louis with the tough conditions that we have.

My first summer here in 99, some of you remember how tough that was.  I know Dan remembers that.  He was very kind to write a story to try to help us golf course superintendents late that summer so we could keep some of our jobs.  Every now and then you get one of these weird summers here in St. Louis.  You never know what you're going to get, and this summer has been one of those great summers, and the golf gods really looked upon Bellerive this summer.

Sunday was an all-time record low temperature or the all-time -- how would you put it?  The lowest high for that date in history, 66 degrees, and this morning, we were walking around the golf course early this morning at daybreak, and it's 54 degrees.  You could see your breath.

That's been very helpful to get the course in good condition, so I'm really excited, and I'm excited for my staff and for the club here, and we're really just ready to go now.
Q.  The cool weather and the rain you had over the weekend, what does that do for the rough?  Does that make the rough more dense?  As Tim referred to, is that something you'll maybe have to cut the rough during the week because of that?  What effect does that have?

TONY MANCUSO:  Well, we had a wonderful rain over the weekend.  We had 7/10ths of around inch in about 15 hours, so it was a very slow, steady rain along with the cool temperatures we have.  We're in absolutely ideal cool season conditions right now.  That's going to be conducive for the rough to grow, and that's why we are keeping an eye on the rough.  We just finished a cut yesterday, and we're going to keep an eye on it, and as it is growing right now, it's just under ideal conditions.
Q.  Even though you don't set the guidelines for the setup, can you contrast the way the course is set up now with the length, firmness and speed of greens with the way it was set up for the American Express event?

TONY MANCUSO:  I'll tell you, actually with the advent of the ball and the equipment, even just over the last few years, if you recall the set up in 01 was 71, 17, par 71, and this week here at 71, 17, par 71, and I think the early comments from the players is it's long, it's tough, but it's not too long.  So there you go.  If you look at the driving average distances over the last few years, they just continue to go up.  I think this golf course is long, it's difficult, it is a national championship, but I think it's very makeable for these players to play well.
Q.  How about in terms of the rough and the greens?

TONY MANCUSO:  It's essentially the same.  The rough is approximately four inches.  The green speeds are pretty much identical to what expectations were in 01.  Fairways are at the same height.  Tees are -- basically the setup is the same.
Q.  Is there any difference in your maintenance schedule or care for zoysia than other grasses that are on the golf course property?

TONY MANCUSO:  Well, zoysia is -- you know, it loves the good summer weather, the hotter the better.  You can be a little bit more aggressive this time of year with it.  We've been able to lower the height to about as low as you would want for a really good running surface for the ball.  You know, it's the perfect time of year really for this event, for the zoysia grass.
Q.  Tim, Tony, if the rough is four inches and the weather is just perfect for growing, what length would it achieve in a day?  How much could it grow?

TONY MANCUSO:  Oh, I don't know.  You know, maybe a quarter inch a day, something like that.  You know, it's, like I said, in its ideal condition right now.  We try not to -- we're trying to be on the downside in terms of our fertility at this point.  It's been quite a while since we did fertilize, and so it's not necessarily just blowing out of the ground.  It's just very healthy right now, and I wouldn't say it's overvigorous at this point.
Q.  I know you did some green surrounds, sodded some green surrounds and bunker surrounds.  Are those where you want them to be, and are they the type of height in terms of the grass that you'd like to see?

TONY MANCUSO:  Yes, some of the areas around the greens, particularly around the bunkers, they are zoysia grass, and this is a change that was made prior to the 2001 event.  We do have that zoysia also at four inches.  It's a little bit -- it plays a little bit differently than the turf-type fescue.  It kind of depends on the heat.  Right now the ball is -- everything is just so healthy right now that if it was really hot, I think you'd find the ball in the full season rough maybe sit down a little bit more, but it's so healthy right now that I know Tim and I have thrown a lot of balls down in the rough this week just kind of testing things out, and I don't think that it's as penal necessarily as it looks.

The ball does have a tendency to sit up because we have a lot of density right now that we don't normally have.
Q.  With the weather forecast looking pretty good, maybe just a little warmer, is there anything for the weekend that you're expecting or are you expecting more of the same or are there going to be any other changes in your plans the rest of the weekend?
TIM MORAGHAN:  Not as far as we're concerned.  I think we've met all the goals.  The grass is a living item that does grow, so that's the one thing, as Tony just mentioned, the rough is at its optimal growth grade, so we're going to keep an eye on that, but greens, tees and fairways are just where we want them, and we'll do the best we can to keep them there.
Q.  Is this the first of the Open Championships that the USGA has conducted on a zoysia golf course?
TIM MORAGHAN:  Not really.  We've had the U.S. Amateur was played at the Honors Course in Ooltewah, Tennessee, back in 1991, which was also zoysia.  We had the Curtis Cup there, as well, and we had the U.S. Women's Amateur at Flint Hills National outside of Wichita, Kansas.
Q.  As far as professional Opens, this would be the first?
TIM MORAGHAN:  Just give me a second.  Retrieval is a little slow.  In my time, I believe it is.
Q.  The second part of that is because zoysia is a grass that greens up a little later, would the USGA be hesitant to play on zoysia in, say, a June event as opposed to July or August?

TONY MANCUSO:  Well, I'm not going to speak on behalf of the championship committee or our events group at all without everybody being here, but it certainly wouldn't be a deterrent.
Q.  As you were talking about 2001, do you see this event in some ways for your staff as closure?

TONY MANCUSO:  Well, I don't know, that's kind of a serious word to use.  You know, of course, the world had a lot of disappointment in 01, and as I've said to several people throughout the last year, you know, it was disappointing, and that's about the worst thing I think that we could have really said because we were all saddened by how the world changed.

You know, I guess I think of closure as sort of a more serious term.  I think it's just going to be -- gosh, I don't know what the right adjective would be, but -- gosh, I don't know what to come up with really on that.  We're just celebrating the fact that we're going to be able to do this event.  I guess maybe that's a good word, that we're just celebrating this week.  Like I said, we've got probably 3/4th of my staff was here in 01, and I even have some people that came back to work this event that are now moved on to other capacities as maybe golf course superintendents or assistants or other industry positions, and they wanted to come back.  They wanted to be able to do this event and say that they were here.
Q.  Kind of a closing question, because it's going to be an opening, obviously this course has proved itself in the past, but obviously right now we're hosting a big event like this, for the future is it something you look at is that as long as everything goes well this week, future consideration for this golf course in other big tournaments?

TONY MANCUSO:  Well, it is in Bellerive's mission statement in order to maintain our national spotlight that we want to be able to host major events roughly every seven to ten years.  I know the club is committed to that.  Whether it's the USGA or the PGA of America or the PGA TOUR, I know that the club is very interested in maintaining the exposure that we currently have.
Q.  Since 2001, what changes have been made here?  How many trees -- you've told me this before, but I don't remember.  A lot of the players talk about, well, they've moved some tee boxes and stuff.  Can you just address exactly what changes have been made?

TONY MANCUSO:  Well, in terms of -- there's been no changes to greens.  There really have been no changes to tees.  Setup is almost identical.  We're playing the same tees.  Even No. 3 is being played as the shorter par 3 to prevent that crossover problem with 12, and we have made some changes to No. 3.  We've enlarged the pond.  The green on the right side is -- we expanded it slightly, and it's a little closer to the water than it was.

No. 6, the pond there has also been renovated, put the boulders in on 3 and 6, and the pond on 6 is a little larger.

The green changed just slightly on the back right.  We've got about an extra yard or two of playing surface coming towards the pond.

We did narrow some fairways at the request of the USGA, and we were happy to do so on holes 4 on the left side in the second landing area, we narrowed that a few yards.

On No. 5 we essentially moved the entire fairway to the right approximately five to seven yards, so it's not as forgiving coming off the hill, but it's much fairer now than the right side.  A ball hit down the middle of the fairway will now have a better chance of staying on the right side of the fairway as opposed to in the past where a good drive might drift into the rough.

On No. 7, we've pinched it, both sides in a little bit before the bunkers, with the expectation of the players -- even though it's a short hole the players are not going to want to bring the bunkers into play, so we pinched that in a little bit on both sides.

No. 12, on the right, that's been pinched in considerably, about eight yards, and on the right, just shy of the fairway bunkers, it kind of extends -- it's a pretty long, gradual pinching in, and it's -- the deepest point is just short of the bunker on the right.

17, we pinched in both landing zones.  On the first landing zone on the left, we pushed it in probably six, seven yards.  Second landing zone, we pushed both sides in prior to the water approximately probably six or seven yards on the left, and probably ten yards on the right.  There used to be a little nose that stuck out on the right edge of the pond, and we pushed all that in, so it's quite a bit narrow, but interestingly enough, though, as much as we narrowed that in, we're still a very ample 28 to 30 yards in that location.

So those are the areas that we really made changes for this event.
Q.  What about trees?

TONY MANCUSO:  We have been on a program here in the last few years to try to create a better agronomic environment around some greens and fairways, especially with the zoysia.  Meyer zoysia is not shade tolerant at all.  Over the years I think some of the trees close to the fairways have just grown in a little bit too much, and not only is it an agronomic problem, but I think it was beginning to affect the design integrity in some areas where you had trees between your tee shot and fairway bunker, for example.

So we've been on a tree management program to try to eliminate some of those situations, and in certain instances we removed some trees just to create better vistas on the golf course.  You can stand up on No. 14 now and see No. 12, No. 3, No. 2.  It's just an outstanding opening up of the golf course up on top of the hill there.

The number one reason has been agronomy, number two has been design integrity, and a few places we've done it for esthetic purposes.
Q.  I have to take you back a month or so and ask, what is your role as the tournament week unfolds in terms of the setup and condition of the golf course?  I specifically am referencing Shinnecock.  Are you involved in the decision-making process throughout the tournament week, or is most of your responsibility the advance?
TIM MORAGHAN:  Most of it is advance, but I do have a vital role during the week of the event.
Q.  And how much did that golf course match what your anticipation in the long-run setup turned out to be?
TIM MORAGHAN:  Well, I think due to the conditions you saw on Sunday, I don't think anybody in the USGA feels that that was the ideal condition that we should have gone forward with, but it's tough to control the weather.

Hindsight being what it is, we probably could do some things differently, but Shinnecock is history and I'd prefer to speak about Bellerive?
Q.  Talking about the tree program, two questions.  One, how difficult is it to get your membership to sign onto that, and two, can you talk about did you go all the way back to pictures of the course when it was first built to try to keep the design integrity, or what did you use historically to determine that?

TONY MANCUSO:  Well, we have looked at a lot of photos from back in the 65 Open, and frankly, there's literally hundreds, maybe thousands, more trees than there were when the course was finished.  So, for us to go back to that, I'm sure that that's not an agenda that anyone wants to do because this was a pretty open piece of land apparently back then, and many of the trees that have been planted are wonderful.  There are big oaks that are between holes, and we certainly don't want to take away from that look.

But, you know, the membership, I think, is really beginning to buy into this program that we're on, and really the big reason is because of the improved conditioning on the golf course.  You know, Old Warson undertook this program a few years ago, and they've taken out probably three or four times more trees than we have, and the response over there has been outstanding.  As you all know locally, Old Warson's conditioning has improved tremendously over the last few years, and it's simply because good sunshine and a little bit of water and the grass -- you're going to be successful.

I think it's been a maturing process.  There's always a lot of resistance to cutting a big old tree down, and I don't even really want to do it, but there's times when you have to decide whether it's going to be trees or grass, and where we want to play the game and where we want good grass, you know, that's where we don't necessarily need the trees.

When you plant a tree 30, 40 or 50 years ago, it's just very hard to anticipate how big it's going to get and how wide it's going to spread, and again, I think -- I know I've told Tim this story, a very good member friend of mine and I were out playing golf one day this spring after we had gone through this pretty aggressive program over the winter, and we started on the first tee, and I made a little bet with him.  I said, "We're going to finish each hole and turn around and look at the hole, and for every tree that you cannot identify that has been removed, I get a quarter.".

We got to the fourth hole and I was $3.25 up, and we decided it was time to stop that little game because really there's a lot of instances where you look at an area and you don't think there should be a tree there, and, in fact, there was a tree there.

So, I think our membership is seeing that the course -- the design is kind of coming back into focus.  There's plenty of trees behind the trees that -- in most cases we're taking out trees that are in front of other trees, and many of our members don't even notice that the trees are gone because they're being flanked by other trees.

So we try to be sensitive to that and not really take out any trees that were out to themselves, not real signature trees.  In most cases it was just to push our turf quality out a little bit.
Q.  Since 99, have you planted any trees here?

TONY MANCUSO:  We've planted a number of trees here actually.  We have a program here that sometimes members will plant -- we will plant a tree in memory of another member, and we have plenty of good locations for those trees, and so we're very selective where we go with that.  There's other instances where we've planted trees that might have a good flowering season, for example, or something like that.  So we're not just eliminating trees, we're just essentially relocating trees or making sure that we can play golf where we can play golf and then we can have the beautiful trees outside of that.
RAND JERRIS:  If there are no other questions, we'll thank Tony and Tim for their time.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT