U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2000
Eric Greytok
Tim Moraghan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIM MORAGHAN: Why don't you go ahead, it's your golf course. 
ERIC GREYTOK: Well, I guess since 1992 is really when the change started, after the
last Open. That's when everybody decided what they would like to see for the new Open --
or the Open in 2000. So a lot of changes have been going on, I guess, happening over the
last five years. Working closely with Tim Moraghan and Tom Weiskopf with the USGA. Some
new tees have been built. Moving fairways, the new 5th hole, obviously. Mr. Nicklaus's new
5th hole is a gem. The seawall bunkers on 18 and 17, 9 green and 10 greens. But basically
what you saw for the Amateur is pretty much what's going to happen for the Open, the
widths of the fairways. The rough is not quite as tall as the Amateur; it's at four
inches. The greens are running ten-and-a-half to 11. Everything is nice and firm.
TIM MORAGHAN: From the United States Golf House -- the United States Golf Association,
for those us of at the Golf House, we couldn't be happier than with the last two weeks.
I'd like to thank a lot of people. I think previous ownership got the ball going from the
start. I think they should be congratulated with going forward with such a great spot in
the Golf World. Paul Spengler and Ted Horton, I think you remember Ted from the
Westchester days. It's wonderful to be back here. It's hard to believe -- I sat in the
Championship Committee Meeting in 1992, and they said, "We're going to have the 100th
Open at Pebble in 2000," thinking, "there's no way I'll be here." But here
we are. I will say this; that yesterday we had the best Monday for the players to practice
and kind of get in tune for what we'll have on the weekend than what we've had since 1994.
We've had some issues with weather, '95 and '96, Congressional. We had some problems with
putting surfaces, El Nino in '98 up at the Olympic Club. A little cold and wet weather
last year. Eric and his staff took the ball over from Mark Rashad (ph), who is now at
Shinnecock, have done a great job, and I think the guys had as close to Open conditions
yesterday as they will starting Thursday morning at 6:30. Also from the -- our friends at
the Golf Course Superintendents Association of America, they have a fact sheet. I'm sure
the media up front will be able to provide you with all the necessary information. And
again, as we all know, golf course superintendent does not get enough credit for what they
do for us as a organization, and for every tournament site and day-to-day operations in
every club throughout America. I open it up for questions for the good looking one on my
right and me. 

Q. When was it decided that the rough would increase in height? Specifically, when was
that?

TIM MORAGHAN: A little history on the rough grass. If you look at the old photos in the
U.S. opens, the rough was up to your knees. But last year at Pinehurst, the bermudagrass
grown at five inches would have been a little bit unforgiving, not only would you be not
able to play; you probably would not be able to find your golf ball. So we started to look
at it and say, wait a minute, are we here to embarrass these guys or give them an
opportunity to make a shot and stay in the game? And that proved to be very effective last
year. We took that philosophy out to Pebble and asked Eric to keep the rough grass to
three and a half inches. And there's a little bit of concern, because you have daily fee
resort guests that you want to enjoy their round, and get what they paid for, and get
ready for the U.S. open. At three, three and a half inches, it didn't bring out the
half-shot penalty we like to see. I talked to Eric about three or four weeks ago and said
let's go to four, four and a half inches; do you feel comfortable if we go to a height.
And we ask you to commit, or come in and say, go up, go down, but Eric felt -- no problem
with that. We set it at four, four and a half. Fred was in, we went out and looked at it
the last couple of days and they feel comfortable. We will mow every evening for the time
being. It is dense; it is thick. You have to remember that at one time what is now the
four to eight yards of primary rough inside the ropes for the players was once fairway. So
the density is a little thicker. The grass is a little tighter. Once it gets up around
four inches, it's going to be hard to get out. We're going to have a variety of shots, and
the dropping balls and throwing balls, some disappear, some get half-buried, others sit
up. It's the luck of the draw. And, you know, you're supposed to hit it in fairways,
anyway. 

Q. Is that four , four and a half inches uniform all around the course or are there
places it's thicker than that? Any particular places, Eric, you say are really, really
dense? 

ERIC GREYTOK: No. It's uniform throughout the whole rough, especially around the greens
and the fairways. We worked hard to make sure we had a consistent playing surface.

Q. Is there a sense of when you're working on this course, the changes you're doing,
things like that, that you're -- the whole kind of history of Pebble Beach and the
facility, itself, is it in your minds just another golf course? In your mind, how do you
work with that? 

ERIC GREYTOK: I definitely think there's a sense of tradition here. You actually walk
out to the 7th hole and you look out there, and I don't see how you can't fall in love
with it. Everybody, all my crew and my staff and volunteers are very proud to be here.
It's a great place to work, and they love it. They love it. They take such a sense of
pride in what they do. 

Q. Could you comment on the conditions of the greens? Tim, I think that's been a
concern in the past Opens here; they haven't been quite what you want them. Where are
they, and how do you see them playing out during the week?

TIM MORAGHAN: That's correct, and I was not here in '82, but I had read previous green
section reports and some reports from the PGA and the rules and competition staff, and I
don't think the level of maintenance was as intensive or at the level that we have evolved
into currently. As you can see, the golf course superintendent is getting better, the
education, equipment, et cetera, is better. '92, that transition year from old management
to new management, the condition of the golf course was not as good as it could have been
and it required a little work. And it was something that was easy to fix, "easy"
being a relative term for tees, fairways and bunkers. Putting greens had several years of
misuse, neglect agronomically. And it's something you can't roll into three weeks out and
expect to have it to U.S. open condition. I think we did an exceptional job. Now, since
the week after the 1992 U.S. Open, they've been on the turfgrass program for eight years
and it's evolved into a much better playing surface. That being said, also the opportunity
to have a professional in here in February, there's really two different golf courses. You
get a feel for what can be done and how fast it can be done. Agronomically we are a few
percentage points away from being where we want it for Thursday through Sunday. And that
goes to a lot of advance work and advance planning and experience over the last four or
five years. I don't think we'll experience any of the problems we had in 1992 with putting
surfaces. As you can see, when it gets windy around here, there's going to be a little
evaporative transportation through the plants. Water is going to go up through the
surface, into the air. The plants may get wilty or puffy, but that's where Eric's
experience comes in. I don't have any problem with it at all. 

Q. Eric, what particular problems do you face in getting the U.S. Open course ready
under a daily fee situation, where you have daily fee golfers playing all the time. Are
there any set of problems that you face that you wouldn't if it were a private club that
wouldn't get as much play? 

ERIC GREYTOK: No, I don't think there are any particular problems. With the new
ownership coming in and everything, they've been great to work with. They've been very
cooperative, given me what I needed, the time I needed, especially prior to the Open,
giving the greens a rest. I would have to say there are no particular problems. It's just
something that we take on that we try to strive to give our guests the best daily
conditions possible, and I think they're pretty close to U.S. open conditions. So it's not
out of the ordinary for us.
TIM MORAGHAN: You have to remember the clubs that really have the wherewithal to do
that, at least the clubs that I visit with our championship sites, they really are a rough
height adjustment away from being ready for any of our championships. That's a credit to
the golf course superintendent as well as the host club.

Q. I recall that in '92, the final round, the conditions were quite difficult with the
winds coming up and everything. Are you preparing the course that if the winds do come up
that the conditions are more bearable, or how do you take that into consideration when
you're putting together the conditions for the course?

TIM MORAGHAN: Again, it goes back to the condition of the putting surfaces. They were
not really ready to handle the cultural abuse that we did to prepare them for the Open in
1992. Since then they are "trained", so to speak, to be prepared on short
notice. You really have two different green situations, as opposed to from '92 to 2000.
Again, in '92 you have to remember, majority of that week was overcast, foggy and it was
moist. So it may have been a little off-color through cultural, extra mowings, extra
vertical groomings, things like that. That's not the case this year. Sunday, when the
winds did pick up about mid-morning, we're in a position, okay, what do you do? Do you
want to go out and try to hand-water greens, keep them cooled off; it puts you in an
interesting predicament, because, one, you have 30,000 people, and you're limited to how
you're going to get around the golf course, you have the big puddle of water on the right
and private homes down the left. So at that time Ed Miller was the golf course
superintendent. We decided: Are you okay with not watering? Yes. We wanted to make it the
same for every competitor. How would you feel with one group having to hit a shot in a
perceived hard green, and let's say it's not something you expected, and you go around the
next tee, and you see Eric and I come out with a hose, and say, those guys are going to
have a soft green. We try to make it the same for everybody. 

Q. Are you watering regularly, every day? 

ERIC GREYTOK: Basically, right now with our maintenance practices, we put down enough
water for what the green needs that day. That's the cultural practice I like to use. So
we're ready to go. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT