U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2000
Terry Laurent
Tim Moraghan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIM MORAGHAN: From the USGA perspective, coming off the Pebble Beach and how successful
we were out there in every aspect of the Open Championship, we rolled right into another
great championship. The folks here at Saucon Valley - this is my third championship here -
and my crew of the USGA, not only have we been treated exceptionally well by the community
and the members and the club officials, but the golf course has always been in immaculate
condition whether I come to play golf with Terry in the off-season, or we are hosting some
of the best players in the world. It really, really is an immaculately conditioned golf
course. Membership should be very proud to have Terry in their employ, and the players
should be extremely happy to be here this week. I have not seen a better overall
conditioned golf course in quite some time. From all appearances, we should be really
good. I could make one prediction this week, and that is Tiger Woods will not win this
week. So from that, I think the most important guy here is Terry, and you should ask Terry
how he feels about this great spot.
TERRY LAURENT: I am not sure what I want to say here, but I appreciate those words,
Tim. All I can say is Saucon Valley is very happy to have the USGA here, the Senior Open
for our second time here. As far as the course goes, if we don't have any problems with
Mother Nature, which it doesn't look like it is going to hold up - we lucked out twice now
- I think today, it doesn't look as good or as promising, but who knows. But if we can
keep it firm, I think we will give it a pretty good whirl this year; at least Thursday,
Friday, Saturday -- I think we are expecting more showers Saturday. The men have been
working extremely hard trying to prepare. Things got extremely hectic about a week ago
with everybody coming in at one time, and sort of distracts as you little bit. But we
pulled it together, and I am very proud of our team that we have here, because they did a
gentlemen's job of preparing it and getting it to the conditions that we have right now.

TIM MORAGHAN: Not really, Les. I think the basic principles are the same. We have to
establish fairway widths across. Tom Meeks comes in a little earlier do that. Mike Davis
is still going to do his things with the administrative aspect of the event. From a
playing standpoint, try to play the golf course as the architect intended. We are going to
base green speeds on contour and grass type. The event being played, if you are familiar
with the golf course, there are some severely undulating greens here with some pitch, so
we are going to have to be a little careful there. The only major difference is the rough.
We have a little different competitor, and our rough is about three inches where we were
four inches at Pebble Beach. Again, the philosophy of showing the players the ball -- I
think Lee Westwood said it best last week in that it tells you to try to go for the
putting surface instead of just completely eliminating any kind of recovery. And I think
that is a good move on our championship committee's behalf, and trying to display the
talent that is out there. So to make a long story hopefully a little shorter, no, it is
just a couple of little items. Basically green speed and rough height.

Q. You mentioned about three inches. Originally, they were talking three and a half
inches for the rough. Is that different, or is it three and a half?

TIM MORAGHAN: Three to four -- three and a half. It is mown every evening. I think
Terry has the motor set at three and a half. Again, we are going to keep it that way
throughout the week for just a competitor standpoint as far as having them execute shots.
Then of course, with the weather concerns we are having, if we were to skip a day or two,
and then with a heavy shower, not being able to get heavy equipment out on the golf course
without doing damage, grass is probably growing at a decent rate right now, and we won't
want to embarrass anybody out there.

Q. Can you point out any significant changes between the layout now versus 1992?

TERRY LAURENT: 1992 really hasn't been a lot of changes. Fairway-wise, we narrowed up
No. 6, the par 5. Brought it in about six yards. We enlarged about seven greens, here
again, probably just two to three yards in some locations. Wasn't very much. I think we
can get a couple good pin positions by doing that, though, from what I have seen so far.
We just rebuilt the 18th tee, which we are still having a little problem with because of
agronomic reasons. It is a little shade area, and it is a little difficult when it gets
wet with the weather. We have been having cool, wet weather, no sun. It is a little tough
to grow some grass back up in that corner. So that is the one area that we are having
problems with right now. But hopefully we can at least use it a couple of days. That was
pretty much it.

Q. In the interview we had before with Gary Daniels, who is a local member, he said
that the golf course is significantly different than the way the members play it.
Obviously, the rough and putting speeds. But he also mentioned the fairways, that they are
tighter, and that you have to pay attention a little bit more to wedge play, that balls
reaching the greens won't backup 20 or 30 feet. Can you give us a comment on that?

TERRY LAURENT: We really haven't -- fairway widths haven't changed. They are identical
to what the membership plays them at day in and day out. Other than what I said before,
No. 6 was narrowed up. Definitely rough height is different. Mowing them three and a half
now; membership usually plays it at two and a half. Intermediate cut is always -- has been
set around inch and a half, and/or inch and a quarter. I guess we are mowing them right
now. Definitely green speeds are different right now. Of course, we are right around about
10 and a half on the stimpmeter and normal play for membership here, we try to --
generally try to keep it right around nine foot, six inches and we did narrow up - I guess
we did narrow up the intermediate cut right around the greens; we usually have a six foot
intermediate cut. We have narrowed it up to three foot for the Open. But other than that,
that is about the only change we really have.

Q. Are the fairways shorter? Are they being cut shorter than usual or about the way --

TERRY LAURENT: Membership plays it at 3/8 of an inch try to do that all year long.
Normal cutting height is about eighth of an inch on our greens, tees are always cut at
3/8. Rough is probably about the biggest difference.

Q. What is the real strength to this golf course?

TERRY LAURENT: That is a good question. I think it is our par 4 -- a couple of our par
4s. I think the greens really add -- that is the brunt of the golf course, I think, if you
can putt here, you will do well. And I mean, everything else is pretty straightforward
here. You can pretty much -- there is very few blind tee shots here. There is a couple of
them, but I mean, once you have played the course, you know where you have to hit it. It
has got to be the greens. There is no question about it.

Q. How do you go about keeping those greens hard, firm when it is showering this often?

TERRY LAURENT: That is difficult sometimes. Mother Nature obviously plays -- is the big
question or -- actually I am looking for a word here, but it definitely -- we can control
-- if we can control the weather, we can do a lot of things with the greens. If we can't
-- if Mother Nature doesn't allow us to do that, then it becomes a little more difficult;
then we try to do several things. We mow more. We may roll. We mow several times a day.
There are some regulations that you can put on the grass to help suppress the growth,
which we haven't done here. I would like not to, if I can. Even if we would try do that
now, probably won't kick in until after the Championship was over with. Right now it is
just basically, if Mother Nature starts dumping on us right now, we will try to control
the speeds with the cuttings and the amount of rolls that we can get.

Q. What kind of reaction does the USGA get after a tournament like Pebble Beach where
one guy scores 12-under par, you know, goes so well and everybody else is way off the
other end, what kind of reaction do you get about the golf course?

TIM MORAGHAN: I have been asked that in a lot of different ways and how we, as an
organization, feel and how I feel about it personally. Speaking on behalf of the United
States Golf Association, we couldn't be happier. I think we identified the best player on
the planet two weeks ago. That is our goal each year with the U.S. Open. I think Mr. Woods
helped us along a little bit with his exceptional play, but he clearly stood head and
shoulders above the rest of the field. Not only does he intimidate the field through his
ability, but just his presence. I think Ernie Els standing on the first tee on Sunday
afternoon, I think Mr. Els was capable of going out and shooting 65 or 64, but the aura of
Tiger Woods may have taken that right out of the charts for him. We were extremely happy.
We think the best player won the National Open. It doesn't discourage us at all. It
doesn't discourage us at all in our setup philosophy. You set the golf course up to play
at its strength, which I think we did last week, and as I have said before, Tiger not only
outsmarted Pebble Beach, but he outmuscled it as well. He deserved to win and get all the
credit for that. From a personal standpoint, you know, I couldn't be happier. I think it
was a real treat to watch, you know, it is something that, you know, like watching Hank
Aaron hit home runs or Bart Star throw passes. It was just great to watch the best player
do -- he can do so well. From a setup philosophy, I don't think we need to have a Tiger
Woods' factor. People are asking me, you know, are you going to have to set up a golf
course for Tiger Woods. If we set it up to make it hard for Tiger Woods, we will probably
only have one guy to set up and play. Because I don't think the rest of the field will
want to come out. Again you go back to setting up the golf course for its strength and as
I have always said, the USGA feels par is the ideal score to make on a hole being played.
If someone goes out and makes 18 birdies in a row, well, that is pretty darn good. We
really don't care. So I don't think it is going to change anything. I think it is great
that it happened. As I said, it wasn't how many -- or when he was going to win, it was how
many he was going to win, and you know, sky is the limit for Mr. Woods.

Q. A couple guys yesterday were saying they thought the rough was higher this year than
in 1992. If it's not higher, is it thicker?

TERRY LAURENT: That is very possible. In previous years we didn't do a lot of fertility
in the roughs and with new products coming out on to market, we have gone along with a lot
of fertilizer with pre-emergent controls for crab grass and that sort of thing, so along
with that, we sustained or got some of those additional benefits by using those kind of
products and which allowed us to thicken our rough a little bit over the years. So eight
years ago, yeah, they are probably right, it is thicker probably now than it was back
then.
TIM MORAGHAN: Not to take any thunder away, but the ability of the golf course
superintendent to recognize the entire piece of property, I think as this profession has
evolved, you know, I think early on the primary focus was on putting greens; then teeing
and fairways, but now the pride and expertise in the golf course superintendent is to get
the entire property in as perfect conditions as possible. When given the tools, which
Saucon Valley has done for Terry, where he has the equipment, the budget and the labor,
you are hard-pressed to find any flaws out there. So every area of the golf course is now
elevated even more, so, yes, the rough would probably be better. It is thicker, but it
also is a direct -- Terry is directly responsible for that happening. So it is better. The
overall product becomes better every year.

Q. Since you work with this golf course everyday, can you recognize or point out the
key holes for the golfers, for the victor to overcome or to do particularly well on this
golf course?

TERRY LAURENT: Well, it sort of goes back to the greens again. There is some holes if
you are above the hole, especially at the speeds that I am sure we are going to be at, it
is best that you are below them and not above them. And holes No. 11, 16 and 15 too, those
three are going to be probably, I think, will be one of the keys possibly to the
tournament because of the ball position.

Q. Anybody get the hole of this year in two?

TERRY LAURENT: I never seen anybody get hole 6 in two. I understood that Jim Dent maybe
came close back in 1992 and I thought maybe he came close on 12 too, but I don't know -- I
haven't been out there much to see if anybody has come close or so far in the practice
rounds, but I haven't seen anybody yet.
TIM MORAGHAN: I don't know if that is something they want to do, having played the golf
ball when you get up around the putting green, the penalties increase and at 570 plus
yards, yeah, some of these guys can hit it 300 yards and going back to the condition of
the fairways, these are absolutely pristine fairways when, if dry, is going to add a
little something to the ball roll. Now if we continue to have the humidity and have some
rain instance, it is going to decrease the ball roll a little bit. But anything is
possible. These guys are pretty good too.

Q. Without the Woods' factor here, your prediction on what score is going to win? Are
we looking at even par winning this or better than that?

TIM MORAGHAN: I'd like to say even par because, as I said, par is the ideal score, but
I think the weather is going to play a little bit of a factor in here. We are a little
soft because of recent rains and humidity and given the precise lie they are going to have
on the fairway, Bob (Bubka), these guys will be able to put a little juice on the ball I
would say 6- to 8-under right now would be an adeal score for a win.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT