NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v SUNS
May 26, 2005
Joe Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How are you doing?
 
JOE JOHNSON:  All right.  I sweat a lot in it (the mask).  I will get used to it.  
 
Q.  Is this the mask, is this the one that you will be wearing for the weekend?
 
JOE JOHNSON:  I have got two.  This is one of them.  
 
Q.  What is the difference between this one?
 
JOE JOHNSON:  We just got two in case anything happens.  
 
Q.  Tony Parker is the guy you will be on.  Talk a little bit about defending him, that challenge?
 
JOE JOHNSON:  I am kind of going to make it tough for him, you know, getting in the lane, shooting those floaters, and by me guarding him, putting a bigger person on him, maybe he won't get as many easy shots.  
 
Q.  I know that you have defended Manu Ginobili previously, have you ever gone head-to-head with Tony Parker before?
 
JOE JOHNSON:  Yeah, as a matter of fact, the game -- I think it was last game here -- I am not for sure, but not the last game here but the regular season game.  It was a challenge, but I am up for it. 
 
Q.  Talk about playing?
 
JOE JOHNSON:  It's fun.  This is what I live for and I am enjoying myself playing basketball.  Finally getting a chance getting out there.  It is going to be fun. 
 
Q.  Any question that you won't be out there on Saturday?
 
JOE JOHNSON:  From right now, no, it's not a question.  I think pretty much put in the slot, but no, I don't want to speak too soon, but I still got a doctor's appointment before we get out of here, so we -- I am going to go up there, and whatever the doctor says. 
 
Q.  Any hesitation on your part because of the injury?
 
JOE JOHNSON:  No, not at all.  I wanted to get out sooner, but I couldn't.  I got the mask.  I was ready to get out here and play. 
 
Q.  Talk about the mask?
 
JOE JOHNSON:  I think it will be a challenge, but I don't think it is going to bother me.  Like I said, it makes me sweat, the sweat dripping down my face.  But other than that, I think I will be all right.  
 
Q.  What about the challenge of Parker? 
 
JOE JOHNSON:  Just put a bigger person on him.  I am going to try to stay in front of him, make it as difficult as possible for him. 
 
Q.  Is your vision fine?
 
JOE JOHNSON:  My vision is great.  I don't have any problems other than I got this -- the redness still in my eye.  But it doesn't bother me at all. 
 
Q.  Can you see the red?
 
JOE JOHNSON:  If I look in the mirror, yes. 
 
Q.  But in your vision?
 
JOE JOHNSON:  No, I can't see it at all.  It's healing up well. 
 
Q.  How tough was it, you are not used to sitting out?
 
JOE JOHNSON:  Very tough.  It was my first time.  I am more nervous sitting over there just watching because I can't do anything than when I am out there.  So like I said, it's great to finally get back out on the court again. 
 
Q.  Any sports psychologist involved in terms of keeping your mental game sharp?
 
JOE JOHNSON:  No, my mental game is right here.  I am not worried about anybody hitting me in my face, anything like that.  I am just goiing to go out there and play. I don't need no sports psychologist or whatever, I don't need none of that. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT