U.S. OLYMPIC SWIM TRIALS
June 24, 2016
Conor Dwyer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: With us now is 2012 Olympic Gold Medalist, Conor Dwyer, just wrapped up his third straight Arena Pro Swim Series title earlier this month, and Conor, maybe tell us about how training has been going, the time you spent in Colorado and what you've been up to the last few weeks leading into Trials.   
CONOR DWYER: I'm really looking forward to this meet.  I've put in probably the most -- I've never been more prepared for a meet than I am for this one.  I spent, I think, people are saying, maybe the longest altitude camp that's ever been put together, so it was good being down at sea level for 16 days before this meet kinda getting my speed up, tapering, and I'm just excited to be here and excited to start this meet.   
 Q.  Conor, can you describe what the emotions are like going into this Trials versus 2012, where I don't know if you thought you could make it or not, and in 2008 where you were just here for the ride?  
CONOR DWYER: Yeah, I was here for the ride in '08, 2012 I don't think -- the only person that had faith in me to make it was Coach Troy, and he always said that two years out that I had a chance to make it, and this time around I'm probably still just as nervous but, like I said, I feel very proud for this meet, all the training is there, so I think I have a great shot at putting myself on the team again.   
 Q.  Conor, how did the altitude training come about, spending such a long time up there, and what has it done for you?  
CONOR DWYER: We put a camp together over a month.  It was combining some of the Trojan group with some of Bob's group, so we did, I think, around thirty days in the fall, and then I went back and did another one in the spring, and I was training the best I've ever trained in my career, went to the Mesa (Pro Swim Series) and swam pretty well there, so I decided to go back for another camp and kept on training unbelievably, swam at Charlotte, was really happy with my times, so decided to go back with Coach Bowman, Michael, Allison, Chase and kinda train with them and the Georgia guys, continue the type of training that I was doing and then head back down to sea level to taper with my coaches that I started the year with.   
 Q.  Conor, the 800 Free Relay last year at World's, you guys didn't win that relay for the first time in a while.  Has that been extra motivation for you and all the 200 freestylers this year?  
CONOR DWYER: Yeah, absolutely.  I think 4-by-1 and 4-by-2, we weren't very happy with how it went in Russia and we're looking for some redemption and kind of make a statement that we are the best relays and the best four group of guys in the world.   
 Q.  Conor, the Santa Clara meet seemed like it was a mini Olympics; there was just great racing that weekend.  What did you learn about yourself that maybe you didn't know going into this summer?  
CONOR DWYER: Yeah, I thought it was an incredible meet to be a part of.  I found out maybe a couple -- a week out that Sun Yang was going, and I kind of embraced it and was excited because I know I can have the opportunity to race him at the end of the year if I take care of business here, and I just know that there will be hard swimming here and good races here, but if there is anyone to get you ready for Trials, it would be racing Sun Yang, one of the best freestylers of all time.   
 Q.  Conor, what's it like for a kid in 2008 to come into this environment when you've been swimming in mostly meets with 100 or 200 people or family and friends?  Describe the impact of this environment on you and how much it helped you in 2012 when you thought you had a chance to make the team to have experienced that awe-struck environment once before?  
CONOR DWYER: Yeah, it's an unbelievable thing.  It kinda opens your eyes and you realize how big of a spectacle swimming can be.  When I came here in 2008, I kind of thought of it like the Super Bowl of swimming.  I didn't know it really existed until I got here, and the first night I remember watching the 400 IM, Ryan and Michael battle it out, and fireworks went off during the race, which I don't think that was supposed to happen, but it was cool (Chuckles.)  Some of the fans and even some of the racers said they felt the heat of the fireworks, but there's no meet like this in the world, and I think a lot of foreigners are even jealous that we get to compete in such an amazing atmosphere with the fans and how the pool is set up in a big arena like this.   
 Q.  Do you know how many days all together you spent in Colorado Springs going back in the fall, and if you stayed at the training center the whole time did you go crazy?  
CONOR DWYER: I didn't go crazy.  I had a buddy who the last 60 or so days -- so I put together around 80 to 100 all year, but I had a buddy who wasn't using his house in Colorado Springs, so I got to stay off campus, which was nice to kinda drive in and out of practice and have a little bit of freedom.   
 Q.  Can you talk about, kind of retrace your reasons for your change to Trojan Swim Club and what it's been like for you to come out to train in LA, and maybe how that's impacted your swimming, also maybe your life, how you like California?  
CONOR DWYER: I love California!  There is no place like it in the world!  Chicago will always be home to me where I grew up, and I still love going back to Chicago hanging with my friends and family, supporting Chicago sports, but living in Los Angeles has been a dream come true.  Beautiful weather, training with Coach Salo, Coach Urbanchek, and then I did get to train with Coach Bowman again this year for around thirty days, and that went fantastic.  He took care of me, and we put the past behind us.   
He really helped me out, helped me get better this year, so a lot of coaches helped me along the way this year and I owe a lot of thanks to them.   
 Q.  Conor, you've had a long pro career, five years now.  When did you realize that it was possible?  Reflect on what it's meant to be able to stay in the sport for so long and make a living off of it as long as you have?  
CONOR DWYER: That's a great question.  I don't think I knew it was possible until after London, until that tour started, and I got sponsorship opportunities and appearance opportunities, so after London is kind of when I realized the dream could come true, and I could keep swimming until now, making a living, having fun and traveling and doing the sport I love.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
CONOR DWYER: Oh yeah, I have enjoyed the ride, tremendously.   
 Q.  Conor, kind of a team question for younger guys, the influence of Michael and Ryan as you came in, what maybe trickle down has that had for some of you guys over the years, and what have you guys maybe taken away from being around them all this time?  
CONOR DWYER: Just how they carry themselves in training and then how they just dominate big meets.  I think they've been amazing leaders, at least for the first Olympics I was on, in teaching us that even though it's the biggest stage of your career to treat it like any other swim meet.   
There is a reason you get on this team, and it's just been -- you couldn't ask for two better leaders to teach you how to carry yourself in competition and out of competition.   
 Q.  I'm curious, growing up as friends with Michael Jordan's kids, did that have any influence on you in terms of learning what it would mean to be a professional athlete, being in that house or around Michael or anything like that as a professional athlete?  
CONOR DWYER: No, I was like 15, 16, just doing every sport I could try out for, so it was really cool getting to have sleepovers with Marcus and Jeffrey at the house and playing basketball, playing baseball, golf, up all night playing those sports just having a good time.  I was just all-around an avid Chicago sports fan, so I loved doing all sports.  I knew I wanted to push myself in something, but it was right around that time that I found swimming, and those guys had basketball and baseball, doing their thing, so I was always, I guess, kinda finding myself in swimming and wanted to push it as far as I could.   
 Q.  How surprised are you that Ryan is swimming the 400 IM?  
CONOR DWYER: Yeah, that is a little bit surprising, but he is the defending gold medalist in that event.  I've seen him pull off some incredible things in that race.  I'm actually looking forward to it as a buddy and fan to see how he does with that event again.  It will be good to see him doing that one.   
THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Conor.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT