DAVIS CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP FINAL: FRANCE v SERBIA
December 2, 2010
Novak Djokovic
Bogdan Obradovic
Janko Tipsarevic
Nenad Zimonjic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Welcome to the post official draw press conference of the Serbian national team. We will start with questions in English. 

 Q. Bogdan, why did you choose Tipsarevic and not Troicki for the singles? 
 CAPTAIN OBRADOVIC: He gave me a lot of money (smiling). It's a joke first. 
 The reason is actually there is no difference between Janko and Viktor. So they are great players. But Niki Pilic and me together speaking with the team, we made that, let's say, top decision. Of course, both of them wanted to play. We made decision for Janko to play this match. 
 Everybody knows he got the score to Monfils 2-All, but hopefully after this match it's going to be 3-2 for Janko. 

 Q. Novak, did you expect to play Michael or Gilles? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: I think more logical solution for their team was Simon. That's what we kind of a little bit more expected. 
 Regardless of who I play, I have to be on top of my game. It's the finals of Davis Cup. Everybody will try to perform their best and everybody will have a lot of motivation to play great tennis in these three days. 

 Q. Novak, what kind of game did you expect against Gilles Simon tomorrow? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, we played very long matches, except the last one, in China, which was in two sets. Most of the matches we have played were with a lot of long rallies. 
 He's the type of player that likes to be very patient from the baseline and just force his opponent to make errors. Tactically that's probably going to be the case tomorrow. I will try to be patient but aggressive at the same time, try to control the match. 
 You know, it's best-of-five, so you got to be physically fit to hold on. 

 Q. Novak, for a young person like you, you already have a lot of pressure in your career, different pressure. Which sort of pressure do you have now before the Davis Cup final in your country, for your country, with you No. 1? If you close your eyes, which photo do you see Sunday night and which score? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I cannot answer the second question. I will keep it like this and see how it's going to go. 
 We are optimistic. But, you know, we are aware of the strength of the French team. We just want to see how it's going to go after three days. 
 It's a very unique competition where you represent your country in the first place and then yourself. So this is a team effort, a team spirit that you feel that is carrying you on to the victory. 
 It's definitely a different kind of pressure that you get to feel than in the individual tournaments. 

 Q. Janko, you played Gael a very tough match at the US Open. What do you take away from that match going into this contest? 
 JANKO TIPSAREVIC: Gael is probably one of the best, if not the best, defenders on tour. He's very quick. He covers the ground, the court, unbelievably well. 
 I have to be aggressive, but on the other hand I cannot rush because if I try to win a point in one, two or three shots against him, that's not going to happen. 
 The court is fast, but it's not that fast that you can dominate the game with only the serve or the first shot after the serve. 
 The general idea is that, you know, he's running really well, similar like Gilles, making you make mistakes. So I need to be aggressive but use my opportunities on the right time. 

 Q. Janko, are you a different man since you are married? 
 JANKO TIPSAREVIC: In what way? Do I look more pretty or how? 

 Q. You are more confident. 
 JANKO TIPSAREVIC: More confidence on the tennis court? 

 Q. In tennis, yeah. A change of something for you to be married? 
 NENAD ZIMONJIC: He's undefeated in the Davis Cup since he's married. 
 JANKO TIPSAREVIC: That's more pressure for French (smiling). 
 I'm feeling more happy with myself and my life. In general, my lifestyle didn't change that much. But, you know, it's a good statistic to have: not lose a match since I'm married in Davis Cup. It's one more thing that may or may not make the difference in this match. 
 In general, I feel more happier. But generally my lifestyle didn't change that much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT