DAVIS CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP FINAL: FRANCE v SERBIA
December 5, 2010
Novak Djokovic
Bogdan Obradovic
Viktor Troicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. TROICKI/M. Llodra
  6-2, 6-2, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Captain, I would like to know whether you think the new red star is born today in Belgrade? I'm speaking about Mr. Troicki, of course. 
 CAPTAIN OBRADOVIC: Yes, of course. I mean, I want to congratulate to my team. First of all, they play really a great tennis, especially on this third day. We are the world champions. Together we can be more than that maybe even next year. 

 Q. Viktor, can you tell us what it's like for you, what it was like when that backhand went in? I'm sure you've never experienced emotions like that before. 
 VIKTOR TROICKI: Honestly, I haven't. This was the greatest experience in my life. I still don't believe it. I mean, probably tomorrow or in the next few days I will start feeling the emotions of winning the Davis Cup. 
 Seriously, I think we all did a great job this year. I would like to thank everyone, the whole team. We truly believed that we could do it, even though we were 2-1 down. 
 Yeah, I'm without the words. This is the most easiest to explain. I'm without the words. No words can describe my feeling right now. 

 Q. Novak, maybe you can explain to us exactly why you won. 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Why did I won? 

 Q. The team. Is it spirit or what? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, we've been talking 10 minutes ago about the difference between end of the second day, feeling in the locker room after the doubles yesterday, and end of the third day today when we won the title. 
 I mean, we were not trying to be negative or something, we were not trying to lose our heads, but still you could feel the disappointment after the doubles match yesterday because we were so close to win, and then so much pressure playing in front of our crowd. 
 To be able to perform as well as we did today under the circumstances is just I think too good, history, one of the best sport results this country ever had. This is by far individually and team the best achievements in our career by far. 

 Q. Novak, you've had some great moments in your career. Where would you rate this? 
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Number one. 

 Q. Captain, when exactly did you take the decision to put Viktor on the fifth match? 
 CAPTAIN OBRADOVIC: Well, we make the decision, of course, a couple minutes after Novak's match. But night before we spoke all of us together. We have a great help also from Niki. I want to thank to him and all of my team. 
 There is a huge emotional connection in my team, and they are really honest to each other. Then we make I think the right decision to put Viktor to play this match. I think that was his best tennis in his life. 

 Q. Viktor, how did you cope with the nerves before such a game? 2-2, final in Davis Cup. How did you manage the nerves? 
 VIKTOR TROICKI: Seriously a lot of thoughts and a lot emotions went through me before the match. I was remembering when I was a child how I was dreaming one day to play such a match, such an important match for my country. Today I was lucky enough. 
 I mean, I'm not a hero. We all did it. Janko in semis. Novak hasn't lost a match this year in Davis Cup in singles. I thank him and Janko and Ziki also, coach, Niki, Bogdan, all the team seriously. Without them, we couldn't do it. 
 Yeah, as I said, it was really emotional. After the last point, it was just unreal. I still don't believe it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT