DAVIS CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP FINAL: FRANCE v SERBIA
December 3, 2010
Novak Djokovic
Bogdan Obradovic
Janko Tipsarevic
Nenad Zimonjic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 G. MONFILS/J. Tipsarevic
  6-1, 7-6, 6-0 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. It was easier than you expected?   
 GAEL MONFILS: I think the score maybe look easy, but I think it was still tough. I mean, I had to compete. I had to break him a bit in his game, in his mind.   
 Maybe the score look easier. I can tell you, I mean, all the match was tough for me because I had to keep focusing like every point just to destroy him. That wasn't easy.   
  
  Q. Gael, was the atmosphere a little bit more friendly than you expected from the Serbian fans? And also there were a lot of French fans in the arena. Did that help you make a very good start to the match?   
 GAEL MONFILS: I mean, like I said to the French press, I think the Serbian crowd is like a normal crowd. I think is more like French press try to build something like crazy.   
 I think the Serbian are very fair. They were cheering for like each player like a Davis Cup match. Actually for me it was like a Davis Cup match away.   
 Yeah, of course, after the first set, was easier for me because I think Janko had more pressure on him and the crowd was maybe less like emotionally with him. So it was easier for me to show my emotion.   
  
  Q. Gael, rate this among your previous victories for you in your career. Is it one of the biggest wins you've had in your career so far?   
 GAEL MONFILS: I don't think so, because I think it was a great match, a great tennis match. For sure is a big win in my career because it's my first Davis Cup final. But I think I played a strong tennis, but not like the biggest match of my life.   
 I'm pretty happy. But I think it's just a very good match, a strong match, but not the biggest match of my life.   
  
  Q. When butterflies stop to go inside your stomach today?   
 GAEL MONFILS: All the time. I think all the time you have it, for sure. I mean, sometime you loosen up a bit. But after the first set, I feel like better. Then I think Janko came up with strong tennis, so start again to feel it.   
 But actually till 5-Love, I was still nervous. Like maybe I was two sets up and 5-Love, was finished actually, but you never know. You can twist ankle or something can happen. So certainly was finished when I won the last point.   
  
  Q. How much change is it to have Guy Forget? How much does it help your mind and your concentration, your attitude?   
 GAEL MONFILS: How much, I don't know. But, like, for sure is very important because sometime I think if you go in a bit unaware of the tactic, you spoke before, it just remind me, Wait, you should do that. It helps a lot because you see the opponent. Sometimes you don't look like how the opponent react after like tough point and stuff like that.   
 At the end of the second, Guy was tell me, he was get a bit pissed off, Janko, when he get time. He say it was okay if the crowd was screaming, maybe let them scream a bit more because he getting pissed. Tips like that is helpful sometimes.   
  
  Q. Gael, you said at the last conference that you think Janko is going to be pretty nervous in front of the crowd. Now you won 3-0. Do you think Janko was nervous actually?  
 GAEL MONFILS: Yeah, I think he was nervous today. I think it didn't come up like usual because I think he had pressure on him. I think maybe today I am a bit better than him.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT