U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 4, 2004
Kelly Robbins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RHONDA GLENN:  Kelly, what a round you played today, you gave it your all, you came so close.  I guess the eagle on 9 really, really got you going there, didn't it.
 KELLY ROBBINS:  Yeah, it did.  I made a bomb, both Annika and I made a bomb on 7.  And coming down hitting a good shot into 9 and having it 3 feet for eagle and looked up at the board and we knew game was on.  And it set up perfectly for an exciting backside.  And, good heavens, Meg Mallon must have done a lot of things right today, because I know I didn't have a 10-under in me.  So it was fun to be a part of that, and I was just trying to put some pressure on her somehow.  But Annika kind of did coming in, but Meg, that's some solid golf.
RHONDA GLENN:  Two years in a row you've been right there.  This should really set up your confidence and also prepare you for next year.
 KELLY ROBBINS:  Yeah, I thought that was going to happen to me last year.  But this time around was a little different.  Last year caught me off guard, I wasn't necessarily playing as good as I was playing.  And this year I am playing much better coming into the event, so it was good to see things carry over.  I had a chance coming in.  I had a chance with 9 holes to go.  And I had a great time this week.
RHONDA GLENN:  It was a great show, Kelly, thanks so much.
Q.  Did you figure if you shot 69 that might be a good number, you can't control what other people do, but 69 is a good number?
 KELLY ROBBINS:  Yes.  The conditions were absolutely perfect this week, the weather couldn't have been better, even all the rain that we had there Thursday night, it made the course very playable.  I should say bearable.  I can't imagine this course playing hard.  It would have been -- the greens just would have been ridiculous, if they want to speed up the greens any.  It's one of those courses that really depended on the weather, and what the weather was going to do.  So I think the weather cooperated really well.  I couldn't believe the screams that I heard today.  There had to be some exciting golf.  I hope the USGA is very pleased and proud to have such a good event.
Q.  You didn't see anything going on behind you?
 KELLY ROBBINS:  Yeah, they were so far behind us, they were far enough behind -- we kept hearing people yelling.  You looked at the board and Meg had another one and another one.  It was great to be a part of it today.  I just wish my name had a little lower number than everybody else's.
Q.  Obviously you're disappointed not to win.  But what do you think about Meg?
 KELLY ROBBINS:  Fabulous.  What great golf.  Meg is such a good player when she's good.  So solid, straight, and hits a lot of greens.  She can putt with the best of them when she's putting well.  Very impressive today.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 KELLY ROBBINS:  Well, I made a good birdie on 12, and then I had the par-5 and I didn't take advantage of that.  I kind of knew that at least -- you kind of have to make 4 there just to keep the momentum going, you really do.  And I didn't do that, but you still have some holes yet, this and that, and I kind of -- I knew that with 16 and 18 coming, fortunately they played as easy as they have all week.  So that maybe could have -- if conditions were a little different, I think those holes could have told the story more than what they did today.
Q.  What do you take away from the week?
 KELLY ROBBINS:  Well, again I've been putting myself really close the last few weeks, I just couldn't keep momentum going, whether it's making the putt at the right time, two or three good rounds, but not four.  So this week was very solid and I'm going home next week, this is my fifth week out, I'm going to go home and rest up a little bit.  I don't know what I'm going to do next.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 KELLY ROBBINS:  I don't know, I really don't.  I love the challenge of the Open golf course.  Again, they are conditions that we do not see every week.  It's a completely different golf course, it's usually a tougher golf course, tighter fairways, longer roughs, faster greens, and it's usually on a layout that tests whoever is playing well that week will come out on top.  They always separate the cream of the crop.  Every week we don't get courses like that.  I really appreciate them, I respect them, and I enjoy the challenge of the Open courses.
Q.  What did you think of Annika's finish, just kind of --
 KELLY ROBBINS:  Annika, it's great.  She's that good.  I just -- I have so much respect for her and her game and watching her play today, just solid.  She is that good.
Q.  Looked like you had fun playing with her.
KELLY ROBBINS:  Yeah, yeah.
Q.  It was a nice day?
 KELLY ROBBINS:  It was a good pairing, I didn't mind it at all.  A lot of respect between the two of us.  It was an easy day, pair-wise.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT