U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 15, 1995
Kelly Robbins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KELLY ROBBINS:  Well, no, not really.  Actually, just the last hole, I don't think there is anybody in the world who likes to end on a double bogey.  Fortunately, I had a lot of really, really good things happening to me out there, tell you the truth, the double is forgotten. 
 
KELLY ROBBINS: Let us see, I bogeyed my 1st hole; hit 2 really good shots, driver, wedge, to -- I was probably about 20 feet past the pin and knocked it by about 3, 3 and a half feet or so.  Lipped out for the par-putt.  Number 5, driver, sand wedge to maybe 7 feet  past the pin and made the putt there for birdie.  Let us see, 6 did that -- did I birdie 6? Sorry guys, I don't even know the holes out here.  I am sorry.  Number 5, I hit driver, 7-iron.  I skipped a hole.  Driver, 7-iron, I made probably a 12-foot putt for birdie there and then 6 was the driver sand wedge to about 7 feet before -- above the hole and made the putt.  The eagle on 9, driver, I hit 6-iron to maybe 4, 5 feet there below the pin and made the putt.  I stayed obviously fairly steady through 17, driver, I hit a 5-wood to the green side bunker on the right.  Fortunately, I was in the back part of it on an upslope and actually just hit a really, really good shot, really good bunker shot to maybe four inches. Then tapped it in there.  6 -- the unfortunate encounter with 18, I hit a fat 3-iron off the tee, still had -- only had about 6-iron into the green, had a good lie.  Even on left to the right slope which I was hoping the ball would work a little bit for me - it didn't work.  I left the ball on the wrong side of the green pin high left.  Pretty hard ground over there and obviously you don't want to leave it short.  I took care of that.  Knocked it, you know, over the other side, then missed probably an 8, 10-foot putt for the bogey and took my double and I am here. 
 
KELLY ROBBINS: Well, I do think that the greens are firming up which is normal throughout an Open week through the weekend.  But besides that, fortunately the weather conditions that I have been playing have been perfect. I haven't gotten stuck out in the weather at all, so -- but, I think the greens again are going to play the big part, the right side and trying to figure them out a little bit. 
 

Q.   How about your routine par at 13; was that easier?
 
KELLY ROBBINS: Yes, it was.  Fortunately, I don't know -- I pushed a 3-wood off that tee.  I am not sure what it hit.  I knew I did hit it quite a ways right.  I don't know if it hit something and bounced even further right, but I was almost in, 14th fairway,; and only had about 110 yards to the front of the green.  And, you know, fortunately, a little wedge, I had enough room, I was so far to the right that I could get it up and over the trees without any problem.  I had a fairly good lie and was able to get to it and did hit a pretty good shot to keep it below the pin and then hit a 2-putt from there, so, you know, when things are going good, those types of things happen and I was fortunate to walk away with 4. 
 

Q.   Kelly, you played the front 9 real well two days in a row.  Are you more comfortable on those holes?  What is your secret, or have you just been hitting --
 
KELLY ROBBINS: I really don't know. I have been hitting it close and when I do, I have been making putts; making maybe a few longer ones here and there. The backside, here again, is kind of a typical Open course, you just want to make a lot of pars and stay pretty steady.  If you have an opportunity to make a birdie, like maybe like I did today, wait 'til 17, I was very pleased with the consistency in how many pars I made until then and I don't know - I have been really fortunate to get a fast start on the course and hopefully, tomorrow, I can maybe do that again, keep that pace. 
 

Q.   Kelly, when you are making a few birdies and an eagle, are you checking the leaderboard to see if you are moving up?
 
KELLY ROBBINS: I almost always do.  I don't remember a time when I don't know what is going on.  I guess I prefer it.  I just kind of like to know what is going on and what needs to be done and fortunately, I have been fairly successful in looking at the leaderboard, so I have no problem with seeing who is doing what. 
 

Q.   Was the goal today to get back to par or under?
 
KELLY ROBBINS: Yeah, exactly.  You know, I just thought, well, if I could go into Sunday even par better, that would be really good.  I knew I had been playing that well, and, you know, to make the turn at 3-under, I was very, very pleased and I mean, I was all the way -- I was pleased through 17 and I mean, 18 obviously is a real let-down, but I can't take my last -- however many holes, you know, forget them just because of one hole, so, yeah, I am obviously -- after being 4 over after the first day, I am very, very pleased to be going into Sunday a few shots out. 
 

Q.   Did you have any birdies the first day?
 
KELLY ROBBINS: I had one on 9.  That might have been it.  Just the one on 9. 
 

Q.   How much did the Major, earlier this year, help you this week?  Do you feel more comfortable because of that? 
 
KELLY ROBBINS:  Well, I am the type of person that likes to go out and win every week.  It doesn't matter where I am playing.  Obviously, the more wins you can get, the more experience you can gain.  There is no substitute for it.  You need to go through those types of situations and then to have a win and have it be a Major, that is much more priceless too.  The courses were completely different, however.  And, you know, that, you know, that may play a key a little bit, that the Open courses are different than a lot of the courses we play.  But, oh, it's got to help.  Any time you can get an experience, whether it is a win and then have it to be a Major, I hope it to be beneficial. 
 

Q.   You said the courses are completely different.  Can you describe a couple of the differences?
 
KELLY ROBBINS: Let us see.  One is in Delaware, one is in Colorado.  I am kidding.  The greens, for the most part, there is a lot of poa annua grass in the greens out east at that time of year; they don't roll as quick.  It was extremely wet.  There was no roll whatsoever.  The greens were  soft, being in Delaware.   The air, obviously, you know, the air is different and par being 70 versus 72, you know, this is a mountain course where, you know, you are in the suburbs of Delaware, it is -- it is not even -- it doesn't even -- I mean, nothing really compares as far as condition where you are playing pressure and -- because we play Delaware -- we played that course before it was a Major and so it was just a regular stop on Tour.  And you know, but --.  Is that good enough?  They are different.  If anybody been out that way, you are looking at a '94. 
 

Q.   Only three people under par.  Is that what you'd expect in the third round and secondly on that note, is that what you would expect based on what we have seen the first two days here?
 
KELLY ROBBINS: Well, yeah, I think so.  You know, obviously, I think anybody would give even par through three days at an Open and to even have -- what is Meg, she is still 4, 5 under now?  Birdied 17, okay.  That is some good golf.  That is a lot of good golf and you know, to only have a few people -- I kind of would have expected maybe a couple more.  I would have thought maybe 5, 6, 7 people, but I am glad there is not.  So you know, that is typical, I guess.  It just goes to show how difficult the course is playing.  You need to keep the ball in the fair bay and then obviously proper side -- hitting the green isn't good enough.  You definitely need to be on the proper side of the hole. 
 

Q.   Is this a course where it is going to be difficult to make up a lot of ground on Sunday and people who are within how many shots in the lead are going to have a chance tomorrow?
 
KELLY ROBBINS: It is so hard to say.  You always like to be able to predict the future; see what is going on.  No one tries to do anything poor obviously, but I'd like to think if Meg finishes 5, that I will have a chance somehow.  I think it is however going to take a pretty strong round.  From what it looks like, you know, all goes according -- Meg is obviously playing really well and very steady, the way Meg Mallon knows how to play.  So I don't know, I'd like to think if you -- oh, anywhere within 6, 7 shots of the lead, maybe you could have a chance.  Maybe Meg will fall in a hole, I don't know. Don't tell her I said that. (Laughing). 
 

Q.   How much has learning the course over the time this week helped you each day as you have gone  through here?
 
KELLY ROBBINS: I think it has definitely been beneficial.  When I first got out here I really didn't know what to expect; never been out to Colorado. Playing on this course and the greens are interesting. They really catch you right away.  You are kind of like wow, you hear about the shrine; all that good stuff.  As the days have passed, fortunately, I only had one bad driving day which was on Thursday and got kind of that club working again and you just -- I have learned you just need to be in the fairway and try to stay composed and as patient as possible.  You are going to make a bogey every once in a while.  You might have a 3-putt unfortunately.  Hopefully you can limit those things to less than somebody else. 
 

Q.   Have you hit 3-iron at 18 everyday?
 
KELLY ROBBINS: I have hit 2, 3-irons and a 5-wood.  I hit, let us see, a 3-iron the first day and maybe had, I think, a 9-iron in and then I hit 5-wood, had an 8-iron in and today 3-iron, 6-iron. 
 

Q.   How many 3-putts have you had?
 
KELLY ROBBINS: Oh, that is a real good question.  I think I can count them on this hand.  Does it have it on there?  I hope not.  Who keeps track of that?  I would say no more than 4.  3 or 4. 
 
KELLY ROBBINS: Well, like you all have noticed, I, fortunately, have played front side fairly well, and I would like to do that just to get off to a good strong start.  I don't like giving strokes to anybody. Obviously, nobody does, but I will be very pleased, to tell you the truth, I will be very pleased with another even par round tomorrow.  I would be extremely pleased if it would be better and I wouldn't be surprised if that does happen tomorrow.  Obviously, you don't want to play bad.  You never try to play bad.  You don't plan on playing poorly.  I am going to try to stick to my game plans - if I can get something going - maybe hit a few shots close, and hopefully I can take advantage of any type of situation that I can give myself.  So, as far as changing strategies, geez, I don't think you can.  I think you just try to keep hitting the proper side of the green and hope you are  hitting your putter well and get her thinking a little bit. 
 
KELLY ROBBINS: Thanks, guys. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT