U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 2003
Kelly Robbins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What are your emotions like right now?
KELLY ROBBINS:  Well, I'm not too bad.  Right now I'm pretty good.  About 20 minutes ago, I had a -- I don't know, it's just why you play to see what happens.  And to put yourself in those positions, and you can't do anything else about what anybody does out there.  Overall I'm still playing pretty well, fairly confident.  And I'm going to practice a little bit before I try to get a good night's sleep.

Q. Can you talk me through No. 18?
KELLY ROBBINS:  I hit a 5-wood -- I hit 3-wood off the tee, 5-wood to the front of the green.  I was on the front.  I probably had like a 25, 30-footer, I'd say.  So just dinked it up there, wanted to make it, but didn't want to leave myself a 4 or 5-footer coming back.

Q. How much score board watching were you doing?
KELLY ROBBINS:  Not a lot.  I knew no one was going to do a whole lot of anything.  I wasn't too concerned about it.  I was a little surprised when I got on 18.  I hadn't really looked at it until I had the tap in for birdie.  I knew that if I made it for eagle, that was going to be good.  I just didn't realize how they had dropped that quickly down to 1 under, also.

Q. You started like Thursday doing a little bit, and started getting a little stronger each day of the week. 
KELLY ROBBINS:  Yeah, you know, I actually played really good on Thursday, I had two doubles on Thursday.  I really hung in there.  And then I'm just trying to stay patient and hit the fairways.  I'm hitting a lot of 3-woods, putting pretty well.  So hopefully I have one more day of good things.

Q. Overall, what did you do that got you here?
KELLY ROBBINS:  I putted really good Friday and Saturday, really good early on Friday.  And then just kind of kept things going.  When I needed some momentum, I seemed to find it, for whatever reason, I was able to find it.  And keep it.  My irons, I've really had some really good iron play, also.

Q. Can you talk about your emotions coming in 6 shots off the lead, I believe, and then five hours later you're headed into a playoff for the U.S. Open title?
KELLY ROBBINS:  I'd like to say I'm surprised, but being this kind of week, and what can happen out there, especially with the conditions, with the golf course playing so hard, I knew that if I could even hang around even par, that things might be okay.  If you asked me if I'd think I'd be playing on Monday, maybe not.  But I'm glad to be here. 

Q. What do you know of Angela and Hilary?
KELLY ROBBINS:  I know Angela a little bit.  I have never met Hilary.  I've seen her name up on our boards every once in a while, but I can't say that I've spoken to her. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT