FORD SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 1997
John Bland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOHN BLAND:  Yeah.  Just go through my round.  I birdied -- two pars in the first two holes, and then birdied the 3rd from about six feet.  I pitched it up with a sandwedge.  Turned in 35.  Had a few chances on the front nine, but never kept them.  Then I birdied the 13th, the par 5, hit it on two, two putts there.  16, I birdied from about 25 feet.  And, 17 I birdied from about eight feet to get back in 33 for 68.  As I said, got off the ball pretty well, never dropped a shot, never in any trouble.  I hit the ball in the middle of the fairways, on the greens.  You know, maybe one or two shots better if a couple of putts had gone in.  But, I was really lucky that the opportunities that I did have, I took full use of. 
 

Q.  How did you stay awake?
 
JOHN BLAND:  Playing with Jack Nicklaus, you stay awake.  You watch everything. 
 

Q.  How did you find the course today?  Was it  different than practice?
 
JOHN BLAND:  Obviously it was much, much nicer playing today because the wind wasn't up at all, and it was just wonderful to play.  It's a wonderful golf course because -- just listening to Dave Stockton, you can visualize every shot you want to play on this golf course, if you want to draw, or put it on the green, all the gentle slopes.  I think the course is in excellent condition and the greens are magnificent, and you can picture your shot on this golf course.  It's a very difficult golf course.  You have got to be very careful.  It is in excellent condition. 
 

Q.  What about the green speeds?
 
JOHN BLAND:  Pretty good.  Yeah, pretty good. Again, they're getting nice and quick.  I think they are just at a pretty good speed today. 
 

Q.  Is it still a different experience playing with Jack?
 
JOHN BLAND:  It always is, you know, doesn't matter how old you get.  You always learn.  Obviously he designed this golf course, so, it was interesting to listen to him talk about why he did this, why he did that.  He's just a wonderful guy to play with. 
 

Q.  He talked about it while you were at the holes, putting out?
 
JOHN BLAND:  Yeah, if we had time, at that stage we  were running around par, so we sort of just discussed a few things.  It was nice. 
 

Q.  So if you're playing better, it sort of creates a mood where people talk more?
 
JOHN BLAND:  Obviously you sort of maybe get a little more relaxed.  Gil Morgan also played very good today, 3-under or 2-under today.  All under par at one stage, waiting on the 11th hole, par 5 discussing this, got a lot of time out there. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT