AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 7, 1999
Mike Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Enrique Wilson was wearing a rally cap, which we haven't seen since 1995. How
reminiscent of 1995 was that last night? 

A. I hadn't even thought of that. I think a lot of times when you compare teams, you
really are comparing apples and oranges and each team has a different personality,
different character about it. I think this team is as different from '95 as night and day.
So, I guess I can say it's not reminiscent at all. 

Q. What was the mood of the players? Would they like to get up 2-0? 

A. Yes. That's the idea. Everything is upbeat. We realize it's a very important game,
as all these games are, and we're ready to play. I'd much rather be 2 and 0 than 1 to 1 to
Boston. Boston is always a great place to play, great fans, great ballpark. We realize
this game is important and we approach it that way. 

Q. Would you talk about how it affected the mood of the dugout last night when Pedro
was taken out because of the injury? 
A. I don't know that there was a real mood shift. You know, he is awfully good, has
tremendous stuff. But Pedro Martinez is the best pitcher in baseball. Obviously him not
coming out for the fifth was, you know, was nice to see. But there weren't any high fives
or people jumping up and down screaming. I mean, we realized that we still were down two
to nothing, we had to score some runs, and Derek Lowe was coming in, who as I said was
very good in his own right. But I mean there's something about when you don't have to face
Pedro Martinez for the rest of the game, you know, it kind of, things go to the positive
side a little bit. 

Q. Is there any insight you can give us about why you guys struggled against Derek Lowe
this year? 

A. I don't know that we are the only people that have struggled against him. From what
I have seen of him, Derek Lowe throws the ball at 93 miles an hour, has a nasty sinker, he
struck Sandy Alomar out last night with a nasty, cut fastball that really took off for
him. So I would say that the reason we struggled against Derek Lowe is because he's very
good. He throws good stuff. He throws strikes, and that can be a tough combination to
overcome.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT