AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 6, 1999
Mike Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What type of series do you anticipate this to be with the Red Sox?

A. I think that you have a little bit of everything. You have good pitching, obviously.
I think you have two offenses that can score runs decently. The teams are comparable. I
think it's going to be a very hard fought series. I don't look for any one team to just
dominate the other. In a five game series, anything can happen. 

Q. Would you talk about the decision to start Charlie in tomorrow's game in Jacobs
Field? Both of his post-season wins have come in Fenway Park. 

A. You know, I feel you go into a short series and you need to go with your best. I
think that Charlie over the years has proven to be one of our better pitchers and
certainly the fact that he's pitched well in Fenway was part of the decision, but I felt
that it was important to go at the Red Sox with what we've got and not to play too many
games. You can sometimes, I think, think yourself right into a box and I wanted to go with
our best. 

Q. Do you guys plan on making any changes on the way you approach the game, maybe run
more? 

A. Because Pedro is pitching? No. I mean, if I did, why would I tell you guys. 

Q. Yesterday in talking about Bartolo Colon, you said he was sort of getting there in
terms of being a number one pitcher. Is that just because you haven't seen any consistency
over a period of time? 
A. I don't think he's missing anything to be a number one. I think that to finally get
the label of a number one pitcher, to have that bestowed on you, it's something that comes
over the course of time. There are a lot of guys out there that I think have the stuff to
be number one, but it's more than just stuff, and I think that Bartolo has all the
ingredients to be number one. It has to just all fall into place and I think that's done
over the course of time. 

Q. Would you give us your thoughts on Bret Saberhagen and what do you think of a guy
who has gone through all of these physical problems and persevered?

A. Well, I think it says a lot for his talent to still be able to pitch effectively as
he does given his physical ailments. I think it also speaks to his character to stay with
it and fight through and overcome a lot of the obstacles that have been in his path. You
know, I have a lot of respect and admiration for Bret Saberhagen.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT