AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 6, 1999
Mike Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How does it feel to get that goose egg off your back? You got the first win behind
you.

A. Well, I'll live to tomorrow. It feels good to be one game up. It beats the
alternative. You know, especially playing two games at home, you don't want to give up
that first game, so it being 1-0 beats being 0-1. 

Q. What was the reaction on the bench when Martinez didn't come out? 
A. Frankly, I mean, it wasn't, there wasn't any visible reaction. The reaction was
who's coming in and it's Derek Lowe. What pitches does he throw? Just a normal procedure
of getting ready for another pitcher. 

Q. Would you talk about your defense tonight. 

A. The plays, obviously the play that Justice made on the wall on the O'Leary ball was
big. It's an inning where it could have been bad. Mike Stanley was coming up. He got three
hits tonight. Probably the most "showy" play was Omar diving up the middle on
the double play ball. Robbie made a great play up the middle then Omar made a great play
in shallow center field. Our defense has been big for us all year and I think tonight is a
good example of how it has helped us all year long. 

Q. What does it mean to you to get past Pedro in the first game like this? 

A. It means we'll probably not face him again. I'm not trying to be smart about that.
You don't like going into the day knowing you're going to face Pedro Martinez, the best
pitcher in baseball. The whole idea is to keep the game in line to where if something does
happen that he has to come out of the game, whether he's thrown a lot of pitches or, you
know, nobody likes to see a pitcher come out of a game as far as an injury is concerned,
but to where the game is in order to where you can score some runs and get back in the
game as we did. I'm not going to -- you know, I'm not going to sit here and honestly tell
you that we went into the game tonight just hoping to survive and looking for tomorrow. We
went into the game tonight expecting to win. I think the Red Sox did the same thing, so
what does it mean? We didn't, obviously we didn't beat Pedro Martinez, we beat the Boston
Red Sox and that's how you've got to look at it. 

Q. Were you trying to pitch around Garciaparra and the pitches were a little too fine?
What was your approach?

A. Garciaparra is a good hitter. I don't think with nobody on, you don't pitch around
people. I'm not going to sit here and put Nomar Garciaparra on base to face O'Leary and
Stanley and those guys hitting behind him. That's not the idea of pitching around people.
He hit a pitch for the home run. Sandy said it was off the plate away. It was up. The
double he hit was a fastball up and in that wasn't in enough. But there are times you have
to pitch to people no matter how good they are and if there's nobody on and that guy is at
the plate, I'm not going to sit there and pitch around him to try to put him on. The whole
idea of pitching around people is to try to get them to get themselves out in RBI
situations. So there's a difference that needs to be understood, I think. 

Q. Give your comments on Bartolo's performance tonight. 

A. I think that Bartolo was absolutely outstanding. He threw, I want to say 117
pitches. His last pitch was at 99 miles an hour and that's kind of been his history
throughout his brief career, that the deeper in the ball game he gets and the game is on
the line and he's got a chance to win it, he throws harder and gets better. We certainly
saw that and he was huge for us. He matched pretty much, you know, Pedro pitch for pitch. 

Q. Was the pitch count the reason for taking him out there? 

A. No. He told us he was getting tired. I figured 117 pitches, the eighth inning, we've
got guys that can go out and get the job done. Bartolo had done his job. He had thrown
well.

Q. Travis Fryman has been out most of the season. How gratifying is it for you to see
him work his way back to come back in this clutch situation?

A. Well, it was very gratifying to see that ball go through the infield and get into
the outfield, obviously. Travis has a torn ligament in the back of his knee and he is, I
don't think any of us really understand how hard he has worked to get back to the point of
where he can play. He's not 100 percent. I think everybody understands and realizes that,
but 90 percent of Travis Fryman or 95 percent of Travis Fryman is pretty good as we saw
tonight. 

Q. Talk about Paul Shuey's ninth inning.

A. Well, Paul came up big. He probably saved me from getting buried by the fans. Paul
came in and Paul's got three Major League out pitches: He's got a nice fastball, an above
average curveball and split finger that he throws 92 to 94 miles an hour and he's throwing
strikes. He can be very, very dominating as he was in that one inning tonight.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT