AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: INDIANS v YANKEES
October 13, 1998
Mike Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Could you compare the disappointment of losing in the playoffs to the disappointment
you faced earlier with the Indians in not having even finished -- not even going to the
playoffs?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Well, that is -- there is no comparison. There really is no comparison.
When I played for the Indians we didn't have much of a chance from the first day on. And
we knew it. So while it was disappointing when you lost, we were out of contention by the
middle of May some years. I mean, that is how bad it was. So there is no comparison. There
is no comparison. Absolutely disappointed that we didn't go on, but we realize that the
Yankees have a very good ballclub and they played better than we did. They deserve to go
on. 
 
Q. The Yankees are one of the best regular season teams of all times. Do you feel
either the Braves or Padres can beat the Yankees?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: I hope they don't. I am -- I am very loyal to the American League, and
the Yankees are our representative now, and it is going to take a very good ballclub with
a very good effort to beat these guys. They have got a tremendous ballclub. 
 
Q. Do you think they are going to win?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: You know, I thought -- yeah, but don't quote me on that because I
haven't picked a winner yet. I want them to win. 
 
Q. What was your read on the play with Vizquel and also when Joe brought out the
trainer to talk to Cone --
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: I did not see the play. The way the dugouts are situated in Yankee
Stadium, you can't see the base. I was standing up, you still can't see the base. So I
didn't see it. I was told on replay that he was on the bag and Omar said that he thought
that he stayed with the bag. I was told that on replay showed that the man was out at
second base. That was my read on that. The read on Joe bringing the trainer out to talk to
David Cone, I didn't -- I thought that something was wrong with David. He had Mendoza up
for a long time and Mendoza -- I don't think, that he was trying to kill time to get
Mendoza ready. Mendoza had been up for a while. Mendoza I thought was ready to go, so I
didn't think there was anything going on there. 
 
Q. Just overall today, how disappointing was it that you guys gave them the extra out
in innings like that when -- with the forced play and Vizquel's error, seems like those
are the kind of things against the Yankees that really costly you when you do it and also
what kind of a look did you get on Ramirez's play on the call in right field?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: You can't give any big lead team extra outs and expect to win if you do
that consistently, much less a team of the caliber and talent of the Yankees, especially
in postseason. So we played with fire all night long with the three errors that we did
make. And we got burned by it. The play in right field it looked to me like the ball was
off the wall and Manny ran into the wall that is what I saw. I didn't see a replay on it.
I didn't think there was anything weird that happened out there but I didn't see it. 
 
Q. Can you talk about the 6th inning, Omar Vizquel's throwing error on Scott Brosius.
And also can you tell me, do you think even though the Yankees won, is there a sense of
vulnerability that the Yankees can be beat?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: The throwing error was Omar got under the ball and threw the ball and
the wind caught it and it took off. That is the first time in three, four years that I
have seen Omar make a throw like that. So I attribute that more to the wind than anything
else. It was an error, I am not trying to excuse that, but that is what I saw happen. Do I
sense a vulnerability about the Yankees? Any team at this level, any team can get beat. So
they are as vulnerable as any other team at the Big League level. There is a lot of talent
with San Diego, a lot of talent with Atlanta. Also a whole lot of talent with the Yankees.
I am solely surely in the Yankees corner -- I am in the American League, they are our
representatives, I wish them all the luck in the world. They deserve it. 
 
Q. Mike, if you can, talk a little bit about this accumulating disappointment? Does
this hurt and worse and worse as it goes on? How do you handle this?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: It hurts worse. It didn't hurt any worse going on, you know, I mean as
it goes on. I am very thankful that we were given the opportunity to be able to be in
postseason. We have done a good enough job the last four years to be here. And really two
of the last three years not counting this year to be in a World Series. So the
disappointment is tempered by the fact that we have done a good job to get where we are
and where we hope to be. 
 
Q. Even as good as David Cone is you had the ideal start with Kenny's bunt and Kenny is
on second base. Was it a bit of a shock to see three straight guys strike out there in the
first inning?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Not with David Cone on the mound. David Cone may have thrown four fast
balls the entire time out there tonight. He didn't throw a lot of fast balls at all.
Mainly sliders and splits. When they split finger pitcher -- when a pitcher throws a split
finger and it is working for him, that is a nasty pitch and David Cone is the kind of guy
that can spot a slider, throw a lot of back door sliders. I think he struck out Justice
with one, struck out Omar and was trying to bunt Kenny over and struck him out with a
split off. It didn't shock me. I was gratefully disappointed. That was a very good
opportunity to take a little bit of momentum away from the Yankees as being -- with a
large crowd and the crowd was fired up and we didn't do that. We burned two runs tonight
early, I think the first and second inning or first and third innings, to where we should
have scored, you know, easy runs and we didn't do that. That is costly. You can't do that
with a team like the Yankees. 
 
Q. What changes do you foresee making to get this team back to the World Series in
upcoming off-season?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Well, there are obviously spots that we feel that need to be
strengthened. We feel that our rotation could be improved a little bit, could be
strengthened. The back end of our bullpen, we'd like to see a little bit of help. Second
base has been a problem for us really the last -- this whole -- this year and part of last
year. I mean, you know, I don't know that we will be able to do all of those things.
Hopefully we can. If we can't, then I feel like we have got people in place that can do
the job for us and we will see where we are at. I don't think there has to be a whole lot
done with this ballclub. I think this a good ballclub, just a few tweaks here and there
and we will be okay. 
 
Q. You guys have won 25 playoffs games now over the last four years and don't have a
World Series ring to show for it. With three rounds of playoffs how difficult is it to
finish it off?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Well, extremely difficult. I don't think that anybody that has never
been there, they don't realize absolutely how difficult it is to do. But that is not to
say that I don't think it -- you know, that we can't do it. But, yeah, that is very
difficult, but everybody has to do the same thing you take your shot and you catch a few
breaks along the way as we did last year and you got a shot at it. We came within two outs
of winning one last year. This year we didn't win either. We will try again next year. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT