AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: INDIANS v YANKEES
October 11, 1998
Mike Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Sandy left the game last night early. Who is your starting catcher today. Can you
explain the reason behind that knowing that last night the Yankees were very aggressive on
the basepath?

MIKE HARGROVE: Sandy left the game last night because his back tightened up, it's been
bothering him now for the last four, five days. It worsened during the night. Starting
behind the plate. It has nothing to do wit aggressiveness of the Yankees on the bases, it
has everything to do with the fact that Sandy is physically unable to start the game. He
can catch if we need him, but not in a starting capacity.

Q. Did you have a little pep talk out there on the field today? It looked like you had
a huddle going on?

MIKE HARGROVE: No. Just sat and talked to them. It was nothing unusual. I do that
occasionally. If you need a pep talk this late in the season and in the postseason, when
you have a chance to go to the World Series, then you've got a problem with your ball
club. It was just a little get together.

Q. Mike, talk about Enrique Wilson and also Diaz and how you're not afraid to use them?

MIKE HARGROVE: Well, they're both young kids. Key words being young and kids. They play
the game hard, they're smart. Real talent. That eliminates any sort of fear you might have
in not playing them and I think very fortunate to have these guys in plays to pick up the
slack, which is what they've done. So they're good kids, they're a lot farther along at
this time of year than they were last time and last year at this time. And they figure,
playing is in their future.

Q. Do you have a 3rd catcher on the roster, on the active right now?

MIKE HARGROVE: You can't. We've got a number of guys that have grudgingly volunteered.

Q. Mentioning Sandy's back tightening up overnight, do you know yet what his
availability may be for Game 6 or Game 7 and, secondly, who might those people be who
grudgingly volunteered?

MIKE HARGROVE: The guys we have available are Fryman, Branson, Sexon. None of them very
attractive. But do the best job they can -- I don't think it will come to that, but we'll
wait and see. As far as Sandy, availability in Game 6 and/or Game 7, I talked to our
trainers and we feel pretty good about the chances of him being ready to play on Tuesday,
given the day off.

Q. Is there any excuse for an umpire being hit by the throw to 2nd base?

MIKE HARGROVE: It's a classical case of being in the wrong place at the wrong time.
Gosh, I don't know. It's -- no, he shouldn't get hit like that, no.

Q. Is there any way to avoid feeling the pressure of knowing you're going back to New
York and it would be much better to go back up 3-2 than down 3-2?

MIKE HARGROVE: No. That's -- it stares you in the face and if you're choosing the word
guys like you bringing it up and beating you over the head with it, so there's no way to
ignore it. It's just part of the process. It's part -- there's no more pressure in that
regard than there is when you start the whole thing. And I don't mean to make light of
that, it's just part of it. I think that the only -- some of the ways I know I deal with
it -- a lot of the people at home sitting right now wishing they had the pressure to go
back and do that. Some sort of perverse way you kind of go back and welcome that.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT