AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: INDIANS v YANKEES
October 11, 1998
Mike Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Mike, what was David Justice's status, how he felt and how you thought you could use
him?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: I felt in talking to him that he could have played. Chose to go with a
right hander in the lineup and just based on the fact that he was hit in the forearm the
night before and the fact that he wasn't feeling really comfortable with left-handed
pitching right now, that's the reason we changed. 
 
Q. Can you just assess the situation as far as the series?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Well, we've got to win two more. Going to New York, we have to win two.
It's going to be tough. We understand that and we understood that coming into the series
was going to be tough. The Yankees have a very good ball club as I've said 1,000 times.
You don't win 114 games in a season by being lucky. These guys are good. We played them
pretty evenly for the most part and we've got to put it on the line two more times,
hopefully and play two tough games in New York. 
 
Q. Given Justice's tendency to come out big in the postseason, did you consider batting
him in Whiten's spot in the 8th?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Briefly, I did, but Mark has got power in all field. Mark is a switch
hitter, better hitter as a designated hitter. Knowing where we were in the lineup with
Diaz, Wilson and Sexson coming up in the 9th inning, knowing we were going to be facing --
I felt like -- it gave us a better chance to go the way we did. 
 
Q. Can you talk about Jaret Wright's situation coming in and flip flopping Ogea?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: What do you want me to say? I don't understand the question. 
 
Q. Your feeling about Jaret's position and how he kind of kept you in the ball game and
gave you a chance?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Jaret pitched well. His two previous starts in the postseason against
Boston and against the Yankees, they weren't what we've come to expect out of Jaret and so
consequently, went with a more experienced pitcher in Ogea. Chad didn't go very far
tonight. We had Jaret, there was some things that Mark Wiley worked on in the bullpen with
Jaret. Velocity was good, threw some nice change ups, the one that really went back was
the Chili Davis one that went out of the ballpark. On the whole, Jaret threw well, so that
was nice to see. 
 
Q. What's the status of Sandy Alomar? Would you use him to tie the -- if you tied the
game up?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: In the pregame press conference, I said he would be available in an
emergency and he was available, so, yeah, we would have used him had we tied. 
 
Q. Could you talk about how demoralizing the first inning was, didn't get a ball out of
the infield and yet you were behind?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: I don't know if demoralizing was the word. It didn't get us down, we
were still up and we felt like we still have a chance and still played hard. I think we
proved that the way we came back in our half of the first. The ground ball that O'Neill
hit back through the middle to Ogea, that ball -- whether that ball is caught or let go,
it's a double play. Those are the breaks of the game. It's not something that I'm going to
sit here and cry about that. Those things happen. That was probably as gut wrenching as
anything, knowing that it was a fairly routine double play ball that -- it wasn't handled. 
 
Q. Considering how the game went, are you going to second guess yourself about deciding
to pitch Ogea, start Ogea?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: No. I base it on good information. I based the decision the way I
thought it was right. I would have second guessed myself more given what Jaret hit his
previous two starts had I started him and what happened happened. So, no, I don't think
there's a second guess there, you may disagree with that, but I don't think there is. 
 
Q. What do you think about your slump in the first inning, giving 15 runs in this
postseason?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Obviously, it's not thrilling, we're not jumping up-and-down for joy at
the way we pitched in the first inning. We dug ourselves a hole fairly often this
postseason, as you say, in the first inning. We've been able to come back from that, but
it's not the ideal way you want to come into the ball game. 
 
Q. What does it do to you as a manager when that happens? It seems to limit the number
of things you can do?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Well, it does to a certain extent. But it depends on how bad the damage
is that early in the ball game, there's still a lot you can do. If that holds true through
the 5th, 6, 7th innings, then it limits -- 
 
Q. Doesn't that hurt, too, by conversely, the Yankees that opens their game up, they're
able to run more?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: There you go. I wrote your column for you. Yeah, you're right. It does.
When you win, when you're ahead like that, it's a lot easier to be aggressive, easier to
come back from mistakes. 
 
Q. Was this a night to get Wells, was he as sharp as he was the game before?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: I didn't think so, but I think that it's a real testimony to his ability
that he was able to pitch as deep as he did into the game and to limit a very good ball
club to three runs. I didn't get -- at least, I tip my hat to David. He showed, yeah,
Joe's got a lot of confidence in him. It didn't look like he had command of his pitches
like he has had in the past, but he still went out and did what good pitchers do and found
a way to keep his team in the ball game and pitched to win. 
 
Q. The way Thome is swinging right now, how demoralizing was it when he lost the chance
to come up with two on in the 8th?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: If I had known that Mark Whiten was going to hit a double play, I'd have
given the take sign. Yeah, you want your big guns to come up in those spots and with one
out and the runners we had where they were, you're looking to them, but you're also
looking to Mark Whiten to drive the ball, too. It's not the ability to do the same thing,
maybe not on a regular basis. 
 
Q. The depth of the Yankees starting pitching is obviously no surprise. When you get to
taste it day in and day out for a week, does if leave you envious, worn out?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: No, I like my ball club. Like I said, they've got a good ball club and
pitching, defense, hitting, they play the game the way it is supposed to be played. Rarely
do they blow it with your pitching or offense. That's what you look at when you see the
Yankees play. Envious? I like my ball club. We've got a good ball club too and I think
that we've proven that in this series and we've got two games to go. Anything can happen. 
 
Q. What do you think of Ogea overall?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: I thought he started off the game crisp, locating his pitches where he
wanted to. I felt like the double play ball by O'Neill kind of threw him off his game a
little bit, not nearly as sharp after that. Overall, I've seen Chad better. 
 
Q. Mike, what did you say to the team when you guys went in today as far as having to
go to New York and the role that you guys have to hold and trying to get two victories in
New York?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: I came straight down here. I haven't been -- I didn't go to the
clubhouse to talk to them yet. 
 
Q. How handicapped do you feel having to start three rookies at the bottom of the
lineup, in the 5th game of the ALCS?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Well, it's almost like these guys that think you're half full. It's not
an ideal situation to be in the 5th game of the ALCS and have three rookies in the lineup.
But I think it says a lot about the organization that we're able to put guys in there,
that we feel confident that they can do the job. In a perfect world, that may not be the
case as far as having them in the lineup, but I think that their organizations has done a
tremendous effort to feel like we can play with them and be productive with them. 
 
Q. It seems liked the Yankees are light hitting. How did that affect your team today? 
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: You look at the game yesterday, 3 hits and 4 runs, a lot of the same
thing. We did the same thing with lead off hitter, Knoblauch hit an 0-2 count and the
thing of it is, good teams are economical with their hits. I mean, they sure -- they make
them count when they get them if they're not getting a lot of them. Yankees continue to
put themselves in a good position and take advantage of what's going on. Good teams do
that. Ones that do it to your team, it hits home the fact that you can't afford to put
base runners on base, good base runners on a good team on base and expect to get away with
it time and time again. That's what happened again. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT