AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: INDIANS v YANKEES
October 10, 1998
Mike Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Could you explain your reasoning why Chad was not on the Division Series roster and
your thoughts in Ogea being the Game 5 starter?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: At the time, we had Doug Jones instead of Chad Ogea to give us more help
back in the bullpen. Steve Reed was coming off his problems, circulation problems and we
weren't sure how ready he was. Felt between him and Jones we could have some help in that
regard. In the meantime between then and now, Steve has shown us he's healthy and pitching
well and Chad has had good numbers against the Yankees in the past. So that was -- 
 
Q. Could you just talk about your hitting coming around. Did you have some sense you
were due to break out?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: No, I didn't. I think that hitting, coming around and -- has everything
to do with how effective the other pitcher is against you. And I think -- the guys have
swung the bats well and I think that a lot of times that it has more to do with -- as I
said earlier -- it has more to do with the opposing pitching than it does the fact that
you're not swinging the bats well. Good pitching will beat good hitting and that held true
back when Babe Ruth played and holds true today. We've got good hitters as the Yankees do.
If we pitch well, we have a chance to get them out and if they pitch well, they have a
chance to get us out. If the pitchers pitch to the big part of the plate, then the other
plays -- I think it's that as much as anything. 
 
Q. When did you tell Jaret he wouldn't be starting tomorrow and how did he take the
news?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Talked to Jaret yesterday afternoon and alerted him to the fact
officially what I was thinking about and had a 15, 20 minute conversation with him. It
went well. He wasn't happy with the news -- as I didn't expect him to be, but he
understood, and like the true professional he is, he will do what he can do to help the
team win and officially told him about 10 minutes ago that we were going to go with Chad
and he was fine with it as far as I know. I mean, he didn't seem too upset. He wasn't
happy, smiling, jumping up and down, but he wasn't kicking and throwing things at me,
either. 
 
Q. Will we see Enrique Wilson now batting both against right and left handers in the
postseason?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: You'll see him tonight and I'll make a decision on that tomorrow.
There's every chance at that Enrique will play more. Again, Joey Cora is a good player and
if we can get him on track, then he'll help us a lot. If not, then we'll see how it goes. 
 
Q. Can you envision a situation, Mike, would you use Jaret in the bullpen in a game
that was not decided?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Jaret is in the bullpen, he was in the bullpen last night and will be in
the bullpen tonight and tomorrow and, yeah, if -- I will use him. I'm not afraid to use
Jaret, I really am not. He is a good pitcher, has got good stuff. Good competitor. Things
are just not working for him right now in the role we've got him in and we've got to make
an adjustment. But I've got no fear into putting him into that situation. 
 
Q. Basic things that you learned from David Wells the first time around that might
prove helpful to you tomorrow?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: No. He was awfully good. Again, David Wells is on his game and hitting
his spots with his stuff, it makes for a long day offensively. There are some things that
hopefully we've picked up that might help. But, again, if David is on his game, it's going
to be a tough afternoon. 
 
Q. What is it about Chad that makes him such a good big game pitcher?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: You know, I don't know the specific reason for that. I think that it's a
combination of things. He has good location with his pitches, he's sneaky fast. I think
also that he has an extremely strong belief in his ability to pitch no matter what the
situation. And I think all of those things combined give him a chance to pitch big in big
games. 
 
Q. Mike, do you think psychologically it's easier for Gooden to be going up against the
Yankees here in Cleveland away from Yankee Stadium where there's obviously so much
emotion?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: You know, you'd probably have to ask him that to get a definite answer.
But I would assume so. Yes, I would assume it will be a little easier here than it would
be in Yankee Stadium. But, you know, that and 50 cents -- my opinion 50 cents gets you a
cup of coffee on that. I'm not sure, but I would assume that, yes. 
 
Q. Your opinion has been working pretty well. Nearly every decision you've made in the
last couple of days has worked out, whether it's the way you've used the bullpen or
starting Whiten, starting Wilson. What sort of role do you think you're on in terms of
that and how much of that is a function of having a versatile and balanced team?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: I don't know how much of a role I'm on. I think a lot of times good
players, obviously, will make decisions a lot easier to turn outright. We have a versatile
team with guys like Enrique Wilson and Mark Whiten that gives us options to be able to
take advantage, hopefully of situations. But what happens in the end is that talent tells
and last night Mark Whiten was very focused, did a great job, as did Enrique Wilson
especially defensively and, you know, I don't know that I'm on a roll as much as my
players are playing very well. 
 
Q. Do you think maybe at one time everybody was pressing and then when some guys start
hitting, everybody relaxes? Is there sort of a cumulative effect?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Well, good hitting will bring good hitting. It's a contagious thing and
certainly when you've got one or two or three of your key people struggling, everybody
else will try to do a little more than they're capable of doing trying to make up the
difference and you start getting a team of hitters that are pressing, yes. And once one
guy comes around, all of a sudden the next guy will relax and it's a domino effect. That
happens since the first baseball was ever thrown. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT