AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: INDIANS v YANKEES
October 10, 1998
Mike Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What did you think of Hernandez?

MIKE HARGROVE: I thought that he was very good. I don't know that he missed any spots
all night long. It looked like he got a little tired in the 8th inning and Joe didn't mess
around, got him out. He threw the ball well, made the pitches when he had to make them.
Made some tough 3-2 pitches to get some of our big hitters out in some key situations. I
thought he was very good tonight.

Q. Talk about the two pitches -- at-bats with Jim Thome with two on, two out?

MIKE HARGROVE: The first one and the last one he faced had him 3-2, threw a change up,
just missed it, hit it off the end of the bat, just missed it. He made his pitch then at
the beginning of the 6th inning, I think it was a 3-1 -- got him up on a 3-2, change.
Thrown a lot of fast balls on the same spot and came back threw a 3-2, change up. The ball
was down and it was a good pitch.

Q. Status of Sandy Alomar?

MIKE HARGROVE: Sandy -- his back stiffened up on him tonight, had trouble swinging the
bat. We'll know more tonight. I just got through talking to him and he sounded like he
felt better, that's good. Wait until tomorrow.

Q. Were you satisfied with the patience that the guys showed at the plate today or did
you have the impression that they were trying to hit everything out, especially based on
yesterday's big homerun day?

MIKE HARGROVE: No, I didn't think that they were trying to hit everything out. I think
it's a game -- as the game went along, we were less patient as far as the pitchers
throwing strikes, getting the ball down in the strike zone. We swung at some bad pitches
out in the zone. I didn't think that we were trying to hit everything out of the ballpark
because of yesterday. We have some strong hitters and if they hit them in the air, they've
got a chance to go. I just felt at times -- not the whole game, but I thought as the game
went along and we got deeper into the ball game, we had some of our guys swing at pitches
out of the zone and helped the pitcher out.

Q. Mike, Jim Thome's ball was out in the first inning?

MIKE HARGROVE: When he first hit it, yeah, I did and then -- but it didn't take very
long for me to, you know, realize that he hadn't hit it well.

Q. What do you think of Gooden?

MIKE HARGROVE: I thought Doc threw the ball well. I thought that he was around the
strike zone, I felt that he pitched well enough to win. He held a very good line, 3 runs
on 3 hits. So I thought Doc threw well. I've seen him better, I've seen Doc better, but
Doc certainly threw well enough to win tonight. We just didn't get any offense started at
all.

Q. Did the pitch count add up on him quickly?

MIKE HARGROVE: He threw a lot of pitches early in the game and yes, it did. Had this
been regular season, I might have gone with him a little longer tonight. But we had Dave
Burba fresh and ready to go. I didn't want O'Neill facing Doc, a little tired, and we had
Poole ready and did that and then brought Burba back. Accomplished what I wanted to
accomplish, to keep the game at the score that it was at that time and Burba did an
outstanding job as did Poole.

Q. You haven't lost two games in a row in the postseason, something about this team
that makes it especially resilient?

MIKE HARGROVE: I don't know that there's anything special about our team than the
Yankees, two very good ball clubs that I think have a lot of tradition behind them right
now and, you know, we come -- we come to play every day. That's -- we show up and we have
an ability as do most people in baseball to be able to forget what happened yesterday and
concentrate on what you're trying to get done today.

Q. Mike, what did the umpire explain to you about the play with Lofton?

MIKE HARGROVE: He said that Kenny did not catch the ball, he said the ball hit his
glove and went straight to the ground from his glove and I disagreed, but that's what he
said he saw.

Q. Do you think his mannerisms and the fact that he's sort of a unique figure in
pitching right now, does that make your batters a little more eager to hit him?

MIKE HARGROVE: No. I mean, we've -- everybody's got different mannerisms. Everybody has
their own flair. We've got guys on our side that have a little bit of flair about them.
That doesn't enter into anything. We look at him as a very good pitcher on a very good
ball club that we have to -- tend to our business against and he -- I think the last time
he threw, we got him. This time he got us. I thought both ball clubs had outstanding
pitches. We had eight hits between two clubs. So I thought the pitching was very good
tonight.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT