AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: INDIANS v YANKEES
October 8, 1998
Mike Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. I know a lot of people say baseball is not a momentum sport. Do you sense your guys
got a lot of juice from last night's game and the way they won it?

MIKE HARGROVE: I think that baseball is a game of momentum and I think that we -- yeah,
there was probably a little of more bounce in our step. Our ball club has been able in the
past year and this year is no different so far, able to shrug off or forget what happened
yesterday and really focus in on what's going on the next day and I think that in this
game especially, that's an -- it's not a unique ability by any stretch of the imagination
but an ability that serves you well in this game. We feel good about our ball club -- we
felt good before the series start and even after Game 1 and we still have a very tough
road to hoe. The Yanks are a very tough ball club. You don't win 118 games in regular
season by being lucky. Good ball club, we've got our work cut out for us, so far so good.

Q. How do you think your bullpen will be doing right now with this day off? And even
though you used them pretty much yesterday?

MIKE HARGROVE: We should be all right. We didn't really overextend anybody except maybe
Paul Shuey. Three innings in Game 1 and threw a lot of pitches in Game 2. The day off
should serve him well. This point in the season, with what's on the line and what's at
stake right now, pitchers have a way of pitching well even when they're tired. They'll
give us what we ask them to give, but we certainly don't want to overextend anybody. I
think we are okay.

Q. The controversial play at first base, what's your opinion of that policy? Do you
think that should be changed? Are you happy with things the way that they are. Because of
the controversial play on Fryman at first base last night there has been some scrutiny of
the methods by which umpires are selected for events. Would you give us your opinion on
the policy the way it exists?

MIKE HARGROVE: The thing of it is the umpire for both sides -- it's not like they come
in and one night they make calls for Cleveland and the next night for New York. We both
have to operate under the same guidance. I think the policy is as fair as it can be. I
don't know that -- I don't know that it can be any more fair. But I mean, that's not --
that really is something that's not for me to answer. You're the first person that's ever
asked me my opinion on that. Obviously didn't ask my opinion when they set up the policy.
I think it's as fair as it can be. I think one thing with the call last night, if you saw
the picture on the front page of the Plain Dealer this morning, the way the rules were
explained when I listened to Jim Evans last night, the way they were explained, then the
correct call was made. That was my sense in seeing that picture and the explanation of Jim
Evans last night.

Q. Did you have any hesitation whatsoever in that situation that Travis Fryman
mentioned last night that you had only asked him to bunt once before and I guess he hasn't
sacrifice bunted successfully in three years. Would you comment on it?

MIKE HARGROVE: No, I didn't have any hesitation in asking him to do that. It's been an
experience with Travis. Travis is a very good athlete and is a professional baseball
player. He is a professional in the true sense of the word and will do whatever he can for
the betterment of the ball club. And at that point in time, in the 12th inning you're
looking to get one run against a team that's not a pretty good record going for them and I
felt very comfortable in Travis attempting that. I don't know -- had he missed the bunt,
and had gone to a -- was that first pitch, if it wasn't -- 1-0, had it gone to a 1-1
count, I'm not sure that I would have asked him to bunt again, though. But I thought it
was worth the one shot.

Q. Mike, Bartolo said he was scared during the first few innings during his start at
Fenway Park. Did you sense that at the time and is that a concern going into tomorrow
night?

MIKE HARGROVE: I didn't sense that and if he was scared in Boston, I hope he's scared
to death tomorrow night, because he threw the ball very, very well and was very focused.
No, it's not a concern.

Q. Mike, the fact that he got over that and pitch so well, what do you think that does
for his confidence, not only going into this game but as a pitcher?

MIKE HARGROVE: Sandy did make the comment that Bartolo Colon grew up that night. We'll
see how far he grew. I think that anytime you get any pitchers, much less a young pitcher,
rookie pitcher and they're able to be successful in tough situations, especially in
postseason play, that it does wonders for their confidence and wonders for their ability
to go ahead and project that confidence. We'll wait and see where it's at. Bartolo threw
the ball very well in Boston, hope he'll throw very well tomorrow night. 

Q. What was the reaction in the dugout when Enrique Wilson got back after scoring the
run?

MIKE HARGROVE: Well, everybody was obviously very happy. And really nobody really
laughed a whole lot about him coming around 3rd base until after the game and on the plane
and then again today just before I came down here. The TVs were on and they were showing
the replay of Enrique coming around 3rd base and it got a pretty good chuckle out of the
clubhouse. Everybody was very happy. More focused on the game and the outcome of the game
than on Enrique trying to swim to home plate.

Q. Can you update us and give us some of your plans for Game 5 starter?

MIKE HARGROVE: We're still on-line with Doc. I mean, tentatively it's still Doc Gooden.
He threw on the side yesterday -- I mean 4 -- Game 5? No. Game 5, no. I've still got a
couple of options there and we'll discuss that tomorrow. But -- yeah, after tomorrow's
game. A lot has to do with what happens tomorrow. I'm sorry.

Q. Can you talk about facing the Andy Pettitte who seems to be the Andy Pettitte of old
the last couple of starts?

MIKE HARGROVE: Andy is a very good pitcher. You know, in most clubs he would probably
be a No. 1 guy and, you know, he's always been difficult for us. We've gotten to him at
times, but he's always thrown the ball well against us. We've really had to battle against
him, he's never given anything away. I think that's a true mark of how much ability and
how much of a competitor a person is whenever that -- you know, you feel that way with
him. That what you get you're going to have to take. He is not going to give it. Anytime
we face Andy, it's always a battle.

Q. Headline on the local papers said a gift from New York. A lot of the spin today is
the Yankees gave that game away. Would you give us your opinion on that?

MIKE HARGROVE: I hope they give us tomorrow's game, too, then. It's been my experience
the team that if you put yourself in a position to take advantage of the opportunities
that are presented to your ball club and you have the ability and you take advantage of
those opportunities, then it's not a gift. That's the whole idea of a game. All we can do
is -- as we approach opportunity -- we missed a golden opportunity with Omar Vizquel's
triple and we weren't able to get him in. The Yankees missed a golden opportunity with
Tino Martinez popping the ball up on the mound and -- earlier in the ball game. So all you
can do is put yourself in a position to take advantage of those opportunities and I don't
look at it as gifts. I look at it as part of a ball game.

Q. Any plan to be bolder on the bases as you guys did when you had the opportunity
because runs are going to be scarce, probably?

MIKE HARGROVE: Bill, you're asking me how it is we're going to approach and try to play
the game. I'm not going to answer that question because I don't really want to give the
Yankees anything to think about or prepare for. You have to play the game and manage
according to the talent you have and I don't think having Jim Thome on first base and
giving him the steal sign is going to be successful very many times. I would rather not
answer that question.

Q. Mike, while Joe was out there pleading his case last night, was there any moment
where you thought, God, they're going to overturn this?

MIKE HARGROVE: Not really. I think part of me, you know, was hoping against hope. I had
-- was sitting there preparing my argument in case it did happen. But I wasn't -- I felt
-- I really felt then and I felt today especially after seeing the picture on the front
page of the Plain Dealer that the correct call was made. Somebody asked me in the
clubhouse earlier when I made that statement, would you feel that way if he was on the
other side and give -- I'll be honest with you, given what I say and the way the rules
were explained to me, yeah, I would probably feel the same way -- I would feel the correct
call had been made. I was -- the longer the talk went, the more at ease I felt. I felt if
they were going to change it, they would change it early.

Q. Chuck Knoblauch has been vilified in the press and he was booed when he came up to
the plate after that play last night. After a night to think about what he did or didn't
do, what are your thoughts about his performance on that play?

MIKE HARGROVE: It is very difficult for me to talk about somebody else's player on the
other team because I don't think that's entirely fair. But in this case, I think,
obviously, Chuck should have gone after the ball and then argued later. I mean, everybody
knows that and Chuck knows that. Had he to do it over, I'm sure that he probably would.
Why he didn't, I don't know. I really don't know. I'm glad that he didn't. Having said all
that, if Chuck wants to come play for us, he's more than welcome to come play for us.
We'll take him on our ball club.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT