AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: INDIANS v YANKEES
October 7, 1998
Mike Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Now that you have had a night to sleep on it, do you think Jaret will make anymore
starts in this series?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: I am not trying to dodge your question but I am going to. That is a
question that we will answer as we get closer to that. We have got some options. I think
that I have in consideration the fact that Jaret's last two postseason starts have not
been what I think he expects himself to be or we would like to have seen. But I think we
also have to realize that he has got tremendous stuff and we really -- I will make the
decision as we get closer to that. But I am looking at other options. 
 
Q. Aside from location and things like that, is Jaret's velocity the same as it was
last year at this time or when he was really pitching his best?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: I haven't seen what his velocity was last night, Sandy Alomar said he
was throwing the ball well. His velocity at the end of the season, yes, was what it has
been all year 94 to 97. I have got to assume that it was last night. Looked like he was
throwing the ball hard. Didn't throw it in spots he needed to throw it in. 
 
Q. Another night of reflection, do you have any further thought on the way you lose the
first games of these series, any wild hunches?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: If I came up with a solid answer we wouldn't have lost last night. I
think that the fact that you look at the pitchers that we do in our rotation who are very
good Major League pitchers, but I think if you classified all of them, at this time there
is not a number one among them. In Game 1 you are usually facing the other team's No.1.
That is the only logical, you know, thought that I can come up with in that regard. I
don't know. It is just one of those things. Certainly something we would like to change,
but..... 
 
Q. Can you talk about Colon's season and what you expect out of him and what we could
expect out of him on Friday?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Bartolo started off the season as you know and pitched, the first half
was outstanding. I think he was either the league leader or second in the league in ERA at
the time of the All-Star break. We went through a little period in the last half of the
season where he got a little tired, first time he really thrown that many innings or
thrown that many pitches in one season. Came through that, his last couple of starts in
the regular season, plus his start in Boston the other night, he was outstanding. I fully
expect to see the same thing out of him. He was very focused in Boston, very focused and
confident. He wasn't arrogant, just very confident in his ability to get the job done and
went out there with an intensity that was nice to see. So I fully expect to see the same
things out of him whether -- I don't know what will happen, outcome of it all, but a
focused Bartolo Colon is a very good pitcher. 
 
Q. I know mathematically may not be, but are you guys considering this a must win
today?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: I think that any time that you get into postseason you have to view
every game that you play as a must win. We realize that the Yankees have a very good
ballclub and we can't afford to give them anymore advantage than they already have. Yeah,
today is a must win. Tomorrow will be too. And I don't mean to make light of your
question. I really don't. I understand what you are saying. But is it a do or die, no. But
do we feel like we must win it? Sure we do. 
 
Q. Have you gone any further figuring out your game four pitcher?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: No, Doc will throw a bullpen today, a side day in preparation for Game
4. So I mean, tentatively yesterday it was Doc, today it is still -- nothing has happened
to change that. Again, as we get to that point and look where we are, we will determine
who we go with. Right now I am anticipating Doc will start that game. 
 
Q. When they come out with a big first inning like that the way they did last night,
does that stun a team a bit?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: I don't think it is stunning. It is certainly the, you know, makes your
work extremely difficult. You have to readjust your thinking and realize that you have
eight innings of baseball left and you can't try to get it all back at one time. Stunning,
may be too strong a word, but it certainly is daunting. 
 
Q. Can you give us an idea of the psyche of your guys after the game last night and
going into today?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Much the same it was in Cleveland when we got beat in Game 1 as the guys
were filing off the bench that day as they passed me by I heard talk of, you know, of
letting this game go and getting ready for the next game and heard much the same sort of
talk and attitude last night as we came off the bench and in the clubhouse. Everybody --
you go over a game like last night and take from it what will help you the next day and
then you let it go. And our ballclub has been very good at being able to do that in the
postseason of letting those things go and focusing on the next day. I think we are ready
to play.  
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT