AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: INDIANS v YANKEES
October 5, 1998
Mike Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Just talk about your starting pitching rotation for the series.
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: We decided to go with Jaret Wright in Game 1, come back with Charles
Nagy in Game 2 and Bartolo Colon in Game 3. Game 4, tentatively Doc Gooden is scheduled
for that game. 
 
Q. David Wells described what some members of the Indian pitching staff does as head
hunting; is that accurate?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: No, I really won't -- I am not going to get into a word battle with
David Wells. David Wells is very good at what he does. He is a very good pitcher. He needs
to stick to that. David has an opinion. He is more than entitled to voice his opinion. But
I disagree with that. I don't think that that is an accurate statement. 
 
Q. Talk about the kind of season Gooden has had, the way he has finished up?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Well, as you know Doc started off if you didn't know that Doc started
off the season really in spring training with tendinitis in his shoulder, battled that on
and off throughout spring training and really into the season kind of had a so-so first
half. From the All-Star Game on, really picked it up and we saw, you know, we saw the good
side of Doc Gooden to where he threw the ball very well. Had a nasty breaking ball for his
out pitch, located his fast ball -- velocity was 91 to 93. Was really one of our better
pitchers. I think without the production and what Doc brought to us the second half of the
season, I doubt that we would be where we are today. 
 
Q. What are the fundamental things that Jaret needs to do differently than he did in
the Boston series in Game 1 or was it just a matter of maybe cutting down on the mistakes?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Yeah, he needs not to give up those three-run home runs. That would
help. The thing that Jaret did in the Game 1 of the Divisional Series when he threw
against Boston is he was behind a lot of hitters, he was up with his fast ball. The key to
getting anybody out whether they be good hitters or bad hitters pitching down in the
strike zone and Jaret needs to do that. But as a lot of power pitchers are, they -- they
can be, you know, high ball pitchers. If you throw the ball 98 miles an hour up in the
strike zone, you will get by with it, but you won't if you throw it 93. The big key for me
is as it is with anybody that pitches, is you pitch ahead of hitters, you stay down in the
strike zone. If Jaret does that, then he has a chance to be very good.  
 
Q. What was your thinking on moving Gooden back from the No. 2 spot to No. 4?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Mainly because it has been so long since Doc -- last time he threw was
only 22 pitches. Plus Nagy has been our hottest pitcher, best pitcher here the second half
of the season. Last time in he pitched very well against the Yankees here. Wright, Nagy,
Colon and then you know, tentatively Gooden, it really gives us, you know, the ability to
have three guys, Ogea, Burba and Gooden in the bullpen that we can go quickly if things
start to unravel with our starters. Gives us more flexibility. 
 
Q. Could you just run down your starting lineup tomorrow?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: If I had one, I would run down it. I haven't put one down yet. I am
still in the process, but it won't be far different than what the lineup was in Game 3 in
Boston. 
 
Q. Do you think the Yankees are the best offensive team in the American League?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: I think that -- do you remember the regular season, yeah, I think they
probably were in the regular season, but I think also, you know, in postseason you are
going to throw everything away because it is a brand new deal. And it really is unlike
anything that you ever experienced in the regular season, but they have got a very good
ball team. You don't win 114 games by luck. You do it because you have got talented people
on the field and in the dug out and the Yankees certainly from Mr. Steinbrenner on down
have shown that they are very good at what they do. Are they the best offensive team?
Yeah, probably. 
 
Q. Surprised that they beat the Rangers when the top of the order went only 1 for 20?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: When you look at who they have got and they can throw Andy Pettitte,
David Wells, and David Cone at you and not even touch an Irabu or Hernandez I think that
says a lot about their pitching staff. They go to Nelson and the people they have got out
in the bullpen, I don't think it is surprise that they can shut anybody down. The old
truism, that good pitching is going to beat good hitting, it is a truism for a reason, and
that is certainly what we saw in that series. 
 
Q. Why are you saying Gooden is tentative for Game 4?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Because if we get into Game 1, 2 or 3 and have to go to our bullpen
early and Doc is one of those guys we use, then obviously he is not going to be able to
pitch Game 4. It will be one of either Gooden, Ogea or Burba in Game 4. Tentatively it is
Doc. 
 
Q. Mike, you have mentioned Ogea obviously then you have activated him. What move did
you make for Chad and how are you planning on using him?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Obviously it is not official yet. But, probably we will drop Doug Jones
from the roster and add Chad Ogea, but that is still to be -- it is still to be deemed
official. 
 
Q. Joe Torre said he thought David Wells was a different pitcher after he threw that
perfect game. Did you see anythingdifferent in him?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: David Wells, I have always seen David Wells throw well. So I don't know
how different he can be. He is always -- I have never -- everything you see and hear about
David Wells is good. He never turns down the ball. He goes out there and gives it
everything he has got. He is a high-pitch-count pitcher. Pitches deep into games, he
throws strikes. I think if anything probably I saw him pitching with more confidence after
the perfect game. I think that is probably what Joe was talking about, but I can't -- I
don't want to put words in Joe's mouth. Joe is very good at speaking his own mind. 
 
Q. Several of the Yankees mentioned that they felt that Jaret in spring training -- how
important it is for Jaret to throw inside -- several Yankees mentioned him throwing at
Luis Sojo in spring training?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: I heard that. If I got those questions from you guys in spring training
Winter Haven when that happened. First of all, there is no reason to throw at anybody at
spring training. Much less at that point of spring training and Jaret was not throwing at
anybody. Jaret is a power pitcher that occasionally the ball will move and get away from
him and that is what happened in Luis's situation. Jaret is not a head hunter. But for
Jaret to be effective, he has to pitch inside. And that is part of the -- that is part of
the game. I certainly don't think that we should all get carried away in dragging out old
grudges or new grudges. I think this is a good game the way it is set up, and that is all
how we are going to approach it. As far as I know, there is no bad blood between these two
teams. Two very competitive teams and go out and try to win. 
 
Q. A lot has been said -- written about the Yankees 114 wins, with regard to their
place in history. Do you see any similarities between this team and the 1995 Indians club?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Yes, by the number of games they won, and yes, by the way that they went
along, they got a lot of breaks. But even if you get all the breaks in the world, if you
don't have the talent to take advantage of those opportunities or you are not focused and
mentally alert to be able to take those opportunities, they pass you right on by. This is
a very -- they have a very good ballclub. Haven't had really one guy that is just gone off
the charts, though O'Neill and Bernie Williams have had tremendous seasons has had Scott
Brosius. But you look at all the people they have got and Martinez, and Knoblauch and
Jeter and Williams and now Shane Spencer is coming along for them. They have had a got of
guys that had very good solid years. Then you add on to that the starting rotation they
can throw at you plus their bullpen that is why they are good. This club for the Yankees
in '98 is a more -- is a deeper club as far as talent than maybe there one in 95 but they
are very similar in that they won a lot of ball games. 
 
Q. Are you getting at all concerned that Cora's throwing from second base; is second
base becoming a hang up for him?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: But we, I mean, this shouldn't beanything new for anybody because we saw
the same thing happen with Seattle. I mean Seattle was concerned with it. We have see the
same thing. We are concerned with it. We are willing to live with it because of the things
that Joey can do for us offensively and defensively. Does it worry me? At times, yeah, it
does worry me. But you have got to take the good with the bad and there are things that we
can do to help rectify that. 
 
Q. Do you now subscribe after the Boston series to the theory that your team can turn
it on and off at will?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: No, I don't think you can turn it off and on at will. I think that again
our team was described as playing lethargic by a number of people the last month, month
and a half of the season. There are times that we would run into pitching that made-- that
would have made anybody look lethargic but I likened it then and I liken it now. There are
people that don't agree with me. I don't care. That you know, it is like the duck on the
water, he looks real calm along the water, but your feet are pedaling like hell
underneath. We didn't play well obviously, but there isn't a time that we didn't play
hard. That is why I don't buy into the theory that you can turn it off and on. I do not
think you can do that. But you can step your game up and I have seen this team do that
from really from 95 on. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT