MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 7, 1998
Mike Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Great from the start. Was that a big key for you?
 
 MODERATOR: The team was aggressive from the start. Was that a big key for you guys? 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Yeah. We went into that with that in mind, that we would be as
aggressive as we could be if we could get people on base. Felt that if we could get our
guys like Alomar and Lofton on base early, put some pressure, steal some bases, get into
position to score early, maybe we might have a better chance of carrying it on through. 
 
Q. Talk a little bit about Bartolo. Had Mark come out to the mound, talk to him. Did
you go out there to calm him down?
 
 MODERATOR: Talk a little about Bartolo Colon, Mark went out there. 
 MIKE HARGROVE: It really was just to calm him down. It was obviously his first
appearance in anything of this magnitude. He was understandably nervous, as everybody was.
And Mark went out there to just calm him down a little bit.  
 
Q. Your reactions of Coors Field? Was this the kind of game you expected at this
ballpark?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Well, I was in Colorado Springs in 1989. I'd forgotten -- one thing I'd
forgotten how deep the outfielders play to make up for the way the ball carries. A lot of
balls that are hit softly fall in that normally wouldn't. I'd forgotten that. Yeah, it
played pretty much as I expected that it would. The one ball that didn't go out that I
thought probably was out when he hit it was Galarraga's when he hit the first pitch, I
don't remember who was pitching for us, Arrojo. I thought that ball when he first hit it
was out. That's the only ball that surprised me that didn't go further. 
 
Q. You handled the AL substitution game well and got every single position player in.
How important is that? How much does that play on your mind during the game, especially
when it was close?
 
 MODERATOR: As an American League Manager, you played the NL game really well, with the
substitutions, getting every player in. How important was that, how much was it on your
mind? 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Well, I think that you come in with two thoughts in mind. Number one,
that you want to win. Number two, you want to get everybody in the game that you possibly
can. These people are the best at what they do. They don't come here, you don't bring them
here to have them sit. But you go in understanding that there's going to be somebody
that's probably not going to get to play. Playing, having the last couple years of
experience with the interleague play has helped. We were able to stay up with what we
needed to stay up with the guys in the game as it allows. 
 
Q. You know a lot about the Alomar family. How Sandy did what he did in your place,
then have Robbie backed it up this year.
 
 MODERATOR: You know a lot about the Alomar family. Having Sandy do what he did last
year, Robbie doing what he did this year. 
 MIKE HARGROVE: I played with their father. I've been fortunate to watch both these
boys, young men play. They're a very talented duo. I don't think that anything that any of
them do should surprise us because they are very good at what they do. 
 MODERATOR: Last question. 
 
Q. One more question about Bartolo. Can you tell us how happy you are, he was the
winning pitcher in tonight's game. How big of a boost is that?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Well, I'm happy for Bartolo. Kind of a double-edged sword. He had to
give up a three run home run to get the win. A bit of a double-edged sword. I think -- I'm
as happy as anything that after he came up with the three run home run to Bonds, he
gathered himself, came back and pitched very well, and stopped it right there, and we were
able to go ahead and take the lead from there. 
 MODERATOR: Last question. 
 
Q. Kept Alomar in longer than any of your other starters. What was your thinking?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: I felt that probably Ray Durham as our back up, him and Brosius, were
kind of the more versatile people that we had in the ballgame. I wanted to keep Ray out as
long as I could in case somebody got hurt. Having Robbie Alomar in a ballgame for a long
time doesn't hurt an effort, a winning effort. That was the reason. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT