AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 11, 1999
Mike Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you talk about where the series turned around, where it started to go bad. 

A. Kenny, we just, about the seventh inning of game three, we didn't make pitches,
plain and simple. I think last night's game is an aberration. I don't know that anybody
has any idea of why last night, other than we threw a lot of pitches up in the strike zone
in the middle of the plate. As far as tonight, I think you saw two ball clubs that had
very tired pitching staffs. That's what you saw tonight. We just didn't make the pitches
when we needed to. Plain and simple, that's the way it is.

Q. Would you talk about the way Pedro Martinez pitched.

A. Well, obviously he came in in the fourth inning and I don't think we got a hit from
the fourth inning tonight. So his velocity wasn't the 95, 96 we're used to seeing him
throw. He spotted his fastball well. He threw a couple 93s, if I was looking at it right,
some good off speed pitches, some change-ups. I mean, he threw well. He pitched and he
made his pitches. That's the difference. He made his pitches when he needed to. That's
what he's done all year long. 

Q. How disappointed are you in the bullpen?

A. Well, I'm not disappointed in the effort. I'm obviously disappointed in the
execution. We felt going into this season that that was going to be one of the strengths
of our club and through injuries all year long, even into the post-season, you know, it
didn't stay consistent. We just were a little short out there, but I think mainly due
mostly to debilitating injuries. 

Q. Was it really because of the injuries that you decided on Friday to move the
rotation up and come up with Bartolo on three days' rest? 

A. Mike, I felt that going with those three guys in a five game series gave us our best
chance to win. I don't know that it was because of injuries to anybody. I just felt that
-- this wasn't an arbitrary decision. I talked to a number of people. It was my decision,
obviously, but there were a number of people consulted and their opinions gained and then
I made my decision. I just felt that it gave us the best chance to win in a five game
series going with those three and bringing Bart back. Bart was not tired when he came
back. Bart just overthrew last night. He overthrew. He said he felt fine. 

Q. Can you talk a little bit about Charlie Nagy's performance tonight. Was he not
spotting his pitches?

A. Got a pitch that came back over the plate to Garciaparra in the first inning, had a
two run home run and then had a pitch that came back over the plate to O'Leary with a
grand slam. You know, Charlie made some pitches but he missed his spots, and Charlie's
last outing, he threw 90 pitches, and Charlie has come back on three days before; so, you
know, tonight just, the effort was there. The execution wasn't. It wasn't just Charlie. 

Q. How big was it for Boston to tie when they brought Martinez in? 

A. Well, obviously it turned out to be huge for them. You know, the way he was
pitching, I don't think it made any difference if they tied the game or not. You know,
Pedro obviously was the big difference in this game tonight, the way both clubs are
swinging the bats. There were eight runs scored before, I want to say, the fourth or
fifth, so there's a lot of lumber being swung early in this game and the difference
between it was Pedro came in and shut us down. 

Q. Early in this series, you liked to pitch to Nomar. Tonight you walked him twice.

A. Kenny, I explained this after the first time we pitched to Garciaparra. You don't
pitch around people when nobody is on base. I mean, I don't know what I have to do to
explain this to you. That's just a basic tenet of the game. Especially in a tie ball game,
you're not going to put, you're not going to pitch around a guy if there's nobody on base.
You pitch around people in RBI situations. We chose -- Nomar is such a good hitter with
such good eye/hand coordination, we chose to put him on rather than pitch around him
tonight. We have been handling O'Leary up until tonight and Troy got, I think he got a
fastball out over the plate and I think it was a hanging split finger from Shuey and no
difference, you know, there's no difference in the approach all the way through. We just,
there was no way to pitch around him in the first inning because there was a man standing
on first base. In subsequent times he came to the plate first base was open, we put him
on. 

Q. Could you talk about the emotion that your team played with tonight?

A. Thank you. I appreciate that question. I thought that this ball club came out and
played, showed a lot of character. I think that there were times that, things that I heard
or read whenever I was in Boston that maybe the character of our team was in question at
times. Anybody that's seen us play throughout the year should never question that. I think
that was answered tonight. We showed -- we got our butts handed to us last night and our
guys came out tonight and showed up to play and it just didn't happen for us, but we
didn't just come in and just put in our time. We made the Red Sox play to win.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT