MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 26, 1997
Mike Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Mike, did you feel like you were going to win after they came back and Omar said you could feel things were starting to happen to the Indians after the 9th inning, did you feel that in the dugout?

MIKE HARGROVE:  You felt the momentum shift, sure, but we battled, to keep it from happening.  And, but, yeah, you could feel the momentum start to shift a little bit.  Our guys still battled.


Q.  Did you have a team meeting and what did you tell your players?

MIKE HARGROVE:  I told them to be proud of themselves, they're a good ball club, that they played a good Series, and they played -- had a very good postseason and there's no reason for them to feel ashamed or sad or anything, feel the loss, but don't feel bad about who they are and where they've come from and where they've gone, they should feel proud of themselves.  I told them to keep their heads high because they were champions, they were winners.


Q.  Mike, just talk about the performance Jaret gave you tonight on three days rest? 

MIKE HARGROVE:  Jaret was outstanding, he came out and gave us more than what we expected really, from the 5th on we had people up ready when he went out and made one bad pitch to Bonilla with the first pitch change-up to start the 7th, I believe.  And he gave up the solo homerun.  But came back, struck out Johnson and gave up the walk, I believe, to Counsell and we went to our bullpen.  But Jaret was outstanding for us, and gave us everything we wanted and then some.


Q.  Mike, there was some discussion of whether you guys might try to squeeze with Grissom up and Alomar on third, could you talk about that situation?

MIKE HARGROVE:  It's difficult to bunt a 99 mile an hour fastball, it really is.  And conventional wisdom says that that's a tough proposition.  I think you saw the Marlins do the same thing with Counsell. And -- Counsell and Alou on third base, they didn't bunt.  I gave it some thought, sure, but decided not to do it.


Q.  Do you see the irony in Nagy being the final pitcher out there for you tonight?

MIKE HARGROVE:  No, I don't see any irony in it, I thought Charlie had good stuff tonight, I really did.  He made a great pitch to Devon White to jam him and get the ground ball out at home plate and made a  great pitch to Renteria and he hit it where nobody was standing, those are the breaks of the game.  But Charlie Nagy I thought threw the ball well.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT