MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 25, 1997
Mike Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You've been through a lot of nerve-wracking situations this month but it keeps getting bigger and bigger, do you get more nervous watching rather than if you're out there playing, is it tougher to sit there?
 
MIKE HARGROVE:   I don't ever recall being in a situation like this as a player, so I don't have anything to compare it to.  I would think that that question best be asked to the players.  When you are involved and you do have some sort of control over the situation it's less nerve-wracking, but it's still bad for mental health at times. 
 

Q.  Mike, is Charlie Nagy still your Game 7 starter if you get there?
 
MIKE HARGROVE:   If we get to Game 7, as of right now we have Charlie penciled in for the start. Again it depends on what happens tonight and who we have to use tonight, whether that happens, but Charlie is, as of right now, is the starter for tomorrow. 
 

Q.  Has the organization lost any confidence in Charles Nagy?
 
MIKE HARGROVE:   No, I don't think so.  I  think that we realize that Charlie in the last month, month and a half has gone through a period that he went through a couple of years ago and came out of it well, and had a very good 1996 season.  I think we're seeing Charlie go through that again.  But as far as losing overall confidence, no, no, Charlie, we feel, and believe that Charlie Nagy is a very good pitcher and one of the top pitchers in the American League today. 
 

Q.  Has Brian Anderson raised his stock to the point where you guys might be looking at him differently looking ahead to next season?
 
MIKE HARGROVE:   Brian Anderson has pitched very well for us out of the bullpen.  We view, and always have viewed Brian as a starter.  Anytime you see a kid come in and do well, especially in a pressure situation such as the World Series is and can be, it raises your confidence level in that individual and if that's what you're asking, yes, it has done that.  Does it make us look at him any differently for 1998?  No, not really.  We've looked at Brian as one of our guys for a while. 
 

Q.  Mike a couple of days ago Jim Leyland was a little upset about how the World Series is being portrayed by the media and others, and sick of teams being trashed.  Do you have similar thoughts? 
 
MIKE HARGROVE:   Oh, this is about the fifth time I've been asked that question, and I'll answer it like I've always been answering it.  We have no reason to apologize to anybody, either team has no reason to apologize to anybody for being here.  Atlanta, Baltimore, New York had good teams, they had as much chance to be here as we did, they just didn't get it done and we did, us and the Marlins.  Whoever it's being trashed by, that's their problem.  These are still very good ball clubs that had to play the same schedule as anybody else did, and we got here and they didn't, that's just the way it goes. Last year they got here and we didn't.  So I don't think there's any reason for either organization or either team to have to apologize to anybody.  They've both done a very good job. 
 

Q.  Mike, the last time your team was faced with a win or the seasons-over-type thing, Game 4 against the Yankees, I'm interested if you said something in particular to your team before that game, would you do it tonight?
 
MIKE HARGROVE:   No, I didn't then, no, I won't do it tonight, and the reason is, I gauge the mood of our club in the clubhouse, and the mood of the club right now is very, very good.  We're all big boys,  we know what's in front of us and we don't have to be told, so it's one of those things after Game 4, I believe it was, the really ugly game, I felt that something needed to be said so I said something then to our club, but I don't have that sense at all with this club going into this game today and didn't have it when we went into Game 4. 
 

Q.  Can you talk about the difference between the personality and the chemistry between this team and the '95 team, and also the difference in the perception of the team and how you feel about it, and whether that makes any difference on the field?
 
MIKE HARGROVE:   That's a good one, long one. 
 

Q.  Wondering about the difference in the personalities --
 
MIKE HARGROVE:   The chemistry of the two clubs, in comparing it, it's the same.  The chemistry in '95 with that club was very, very good, as it is with this ball club.  The difference is in the personalities in this club and in '95.  This is a less exuberant, outgoing, extroverted bunch.  There is less obvious arrogance or cockiness, this team doesn't have the swagger that the '95 team had.  Both teams I enjoyed.  It's kind of like your children, you love all  your children differently, and that's kind of the way I feel about those two ball clubs.  I liked the '95 club, I liked the people on the '95 club and I like the '97 club, like the people on the '97 club.  The personality of the club, this club suits me better than the personality of the '95 club, that's just the way I am. That doesn't mean I like it any better or less.  That means the personality of this one is -- I like it better.  It fits me better.  How is it perceived?  I've got the feeling that people like our ball club a lot more than they did in '95.  I think we have more likeable people on this club than we did in '95, it's a much more media friendly team is what I'm trying to say.  And it's like really trying to compare apples and oranges.  I like apples and oranges, it's just that I like them differently at different times. 
 

Q.  Mike, if you can recall your thoughts coming into the season, did you ever envision this being such an offensive dominated series as it has been?
 
MIKE HARGROVE:   From what both clubs had hit in the NLCS and ALCS and Division Series, if somebody asked me would this be an offensive series, I would have said no.  Both clubs did not hit well in either their paths in getting here, but both clubs have good hitters, and so it doesn't surprise me that it is, it  doesn't surprise me, but if someone asked me earlier I would have said probably not. 
 

Q.  Do you think maybe the pitching wears down through a long season of three rounds of playoffs?
 
MIKE HARGROVE:   No, I don't think so, I don't think it wears down, the pitching really has so far in this series has not been as good consistently as it was at least in our side, has not been as consistently good as it was in the ALCS individual series. 
 

Q.  Has Jaret Wright thrown at all since his last start and what is your sense on his readiness to pitch tomorrow?
 
MIKE HARGROVE:   Jaret is ready to pitch. His side work is today.  And he hasn't pitched, but I think that -- obviously if we need him tonight he can pitch, if we need him tomorrow he can pitch.  Everybody is available tonight, except you and me, we can't pitch tonight. 
 

Q.  You say everybody is available, would you go through everybody -- knowing that you have a Game 7 to play if you win, there's no holding back, you wouldn't hold anybody back?
 
MIKE HARGROVE:   If we don't win Game 6 we don't get to play, and have a chance to win Game 7.  So, yeah, we'll try to take care of Game 6 and worry about Game 7 after this one is over.  But we've got to win this one to even have a chance to worry about Game 7.  So, yes, everybody is available. 
 

Q.  You said your Game 7 starter depends on what happens tonight, are we to assume that if Wright doesn't have to get in the game he'll start Game 7?
 
MIKE HARGROVE:   It depends on if we have to use Charlie Nagy tonight.  We may have to use Charlie Nagy, may have to use Wright, Anderson, may have to use Juden.  It depends on who we use tonight as to who is going to start tomorrow night.  As of right now it's Charles Nagy, I say that leaving my options open, if may not be Nagy, also, but as of right now it is. 
 

Q.  You talk about options, are they your only two options, Wright or Nagy?
 
MIKE HARGROVE:   No, we've got a couple others. 
 

Q.  Mike, could you explain a little bit what you meant, you said Charlie is going through a period like he did a couple of years ago, what do you mean?
 
MIKE HARGROVE:   He went through a period and I want to say the middle third of the season in '95 to where he was kind of like he was treading water, and he came out of that period and he was golden from then  on.  And that's kind of -- I feel like he's kind of at the end of that period this time, too. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT