MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 23, 1997
Mike Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Mike, in the game did you feel like Orel Hershiser had command of the game and all of a sudden in the 6th inning, did you think about pulling him out for Alou?
 
MIKE HARGROVE:   No, he had gotten Alou out the last time he faced him, he was pitching well there.  In the 6th inning, there's no reason to believe that he was going to hit the wall and lose his stuff. He gave no indication, still throwing the ball well, had a relatively easy 4th and 5th inning, and really pitched well into the 6th, just hung a slider to Alou. 
 

Q.  Mike, do you think he just got tired in that inning?
 
MIKE HARGROVE:   I think that he just -- he hung a slider to Alou, and hit the ball out.  And after that I think it just took a little bit out of him. 
 

Q.  Did it take something out of your team, as well?
 
MIKE HARGROVE:   No, you are disappointed, but we still have baseball to play.  I think it gave a boost to Hershiser.  He started throwing a lot more  strikes after that than he had up to that point. 
 

Q.  Mike, what was most impressive about Hershiser, because the Indians seemed to have him on the rope and couldn't seem to deliver the knock out blow, what was most impressive about him tonight?
 
MIKE HARGROVE:   He started throwing more breaking balls as the night went on, and started throwing them more for strikes, and when Alou hit the homerun, he really found himself.  I thought it gave him a boost. 
 

Q.  Mike, can you talk a little about the match up of Alou and Hershiser, both in the first game and then tonight?
 
MIKE HARGROVE:   Alou is susceptible, from what our reports have said to breaking balls.  He's not as good a breaking-ball hitter as he is a fastball hitter.  Everybody we've talked to has told us that Moises Alou is a very good fastball hitter, so obviously you try to stay away from throwing fast balls to him.  And in both cases in Florida we hit the homerun.  He hit a decent pitch there, it looked like, but tonight he hit a hanger and hit it about 580 feet. It was not cheap, and you run the risk with people like that.  That's where they make their bread and butter, you hang something and they'll cripple shoe you and  that's what he did. 
 

Q.  Mike, your team was in a precarious position, but overcoming the adversity that you've overcome all year put you in a position where you almost know that you could possibly get through this?
 
MIKE HARGROVE:   We've certainly been in this position before this one.  And this year.  And so we -- this team has faced a lot of adversity throughout the year and in the postseason has come out playing hard when we have.  So I expect nothing less from our ball club.  We'll go to Florida and hopefully win Game 6 and take it to Game 7 and see what happens. 
 

Q.  Mike, the second time you're at Jacobs Field in the Series you trailed by a lot in the 9th, you made some noise, but couldn't get over the hump, how frustrating is that for you?
 
MIKE HARGROVE:   Well, it is frustrating in that you lose the game.  It makes you feel very good about your ball club that they don't quit, they don't turn over and die.  And I think it also makes you feel very confident in your ability to be able to come back.  It's something we really had not done all year long, we really started doing that the last part of September and in the postseason.  It's frustrating that you lose.  It's not ever frustrating by how much you  lose. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT