AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 11, 1999
Mike Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Since there's no tomorrow, obviously, is everybody available out of the pen tonight
or is there somebody you'll be holding back?

A. Bruce, there's a couple of them that we will have to monitor healthwise; so, other
than that, pretty much everybody is available. 

Q. Have you paid any attention to their situation with Pedro? You hear he might be
available, he might not. Does it make any difference to your situation? 

A. We've got to go out and beat the Red Sox no matter who is pitching. If Pedro is
pitching, if he's healthy, that's a whole different story, but we still have to beat the
Red Sox. Tonight we're getting ready to play against them, to hit against Saberhagen and
if Pedro is available, then we'll deal with that as it comes; but we've heard the same
thing you've heard: He's not available, he won't be able to throw for two weeks, so we're
just watching it and taking it as it comes. We prepare for everything. 

Q. Mike, is Wil Cordero in the lineup tonight and how would you characterize the mood
of the team?

A. The mood of the team is good. It's determined. We are going out to play, to play
well just as we really have done all four previous games. Obviously we haven't done as
well in games three and four as we had hoped we would or liked to have, but the players
are ready to play, the club is ready to go. Cordero will play left field tonight. Dave
Justice has a stiff neck right now and we're working on that as we speak. 

Q. How is Dave Burba and will he be available should you advance?

A. Dave is day to day. He has a strained ligament I think in his elbow so I don't think
there's
been -- and I say day to day. I don't think there's been any official determination as
far as three to five days, five to seven, ten to fourteen. I don't know if, what it is.
It's day to day as much as I know. 

Q. Would you talk about Manny Ramirez' mindset and are you at all concerned about his
confidence?

A. Well, it's been my experience with Manny not to worry about his mindset. He shows up
to play every time. He's as consistent mentally as I've seen anybody in his approach to
hitting. Has he lost confidence? I don't see that. I don't think so. I mean, if I had 44
home runs and 165 RBIs in one season, it would take a little bit more than an 0 for 4
games to hurt my confidence, but I'm sure a hit here or there would help Manny a lot. 

Q. With three rounds of playoffs after a 162 game season, would you talk about how much
that impacts the quality of pitching? 

A. Well, you get that deep into the season, you obviously are piling up pitches and
innings. That's why you try to be careful throughout the season not to overextend people
unnecessarily so they'll have something left at the end to get to post-season and then be
productive during post-season. How does it impact? I don't know that it impacts it that
much as far as the quality, overall quality of it, I mean, everybody has got the same
problem.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT