MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 20, 1997
Mike Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Say something brilliant that you didn't say last night?

MIKE HARGROVE: I've never been accused of being brilliant.

Q. Mike, a lot is being talked about the weather, can you explain how cold weather can
affect the game, not necessarily the advantage or disadvantages, how does extreme cold
weather affect the game?

MIKE HARGROVE: Probably the major effect is the grip the pitcher will have on the ball.
Cold weather tends to dry out your hands and fingers a lot more than warm weather will,
obviously. And the pitcher's grip on the ball can be affected and also hitting a baseball
in cold weather is not a lot of fun. If you don't just hit it right it hurts. It's amazing
how warm you get when you get into a competitive situation. So I think probably the only
ones that are going to be cold tomorrow night are us that are sitting back and watching.

Q. Do you have any concerns about Vizquel fouling the ball off his foot?

MIKE HARGROVE: No, I don't. I did last night a little bit, but he worked out today and
didn't show any ill effects, and the trainers didn't mention anything to me about it, so
he's okay.

Q. Following up on the cold weather, is there any reason why just because the Marlins
play in Florida it should be tougher on them if it's cold, and is there anything to the
suggestion that Latin players have a tougher time in cold weather?

MIKE HARGROVE: I really believe that we haven't played in any colder weather, really,
than the Marlins have the last couple of months. This is the first time that we've run
into cold weather since April, so I don't see it being an advantage or disadvantage for
anybody. As far as the Latin players adjusting to the cold, any worse than -- or more
slowly than anybody else, I don't put a whole lot into that. I found that this kind of
weather is kind of a mind over matter. If you don't mind, it really doesn't matter. So
it's something that's there, we deal with it, it's part of it and we go on. But you don't
dwell on it.

Q. Mike, I'm sure you're the same manager you've always been, but you finally seem to
be getting a lot of credit for the things you're doing. Is that gratifying to you or you
have no ego about it?

MIKE HARGROVE: I'm human like anybody else, I have an ego. I don't think it's any more
gratifying, I think it's just a validation of what I felt for a long time. So, yeah, you
like to get credit for what goes right. You hate to get credit for what goes wrong. It
still comes down to it's all about the game. The players play the game, and it should be
about the players.

Q. Mike, you guys said over and over that Grissom was a winner, and he had kind of a
struggling season, is there any way you could have predicted this postseason he's had,
particularly his long string of World Series consecutive games?

MIKE HARGROVE: I don't think there's any way that you really can predict anything like
that with any certainty. You look at -- everything is built in this game on statistics and
track records. You look at his track record and his track record says he should do this,
because he's done it in the past. So I don't think it should surprise any of us. Marquis
Grissom is a winner, has been a winner all along. We heard that from the Braves people
when the trade was made. He's certainly not disappointed us at all. It took him a while to
adjust to a new town, a new league and new teammates. But I have never seen anybody work
harder at being a good player than Marquis Grissom.

Q. Two questions, who's going to be your left fielder tomorrow night. And number two,
when you moved Marquis down in the batting order after his slump, was that easy for him to
take or how did you approach him on that and what was his reaction?

MIKE HARGROVE: Tomorrow night Bip Roberts will play in left field. When I moved Marquis
out of the lead-off spot, he took it very well. His reaction was whatever it took for the
team to be better and he kept telling me over and over that he would be good for us before
it was all over with, and he was certainly right.

Q. Mike, Jim Leyland was just in here and he said that Marquis goes about his business
the way you would want your son to go about his business. What has impressed you most
about Marquis now that you've gotten to know him and he's in your league?

MIKE HARGROVE: I think the biggest thing -- it's nice to hear Jimmy say that. The thing
that probably has impressed me more about Marquis Grissom than anything else, is that the
numerous times that he could have griped and moaned about what was going on and about him
being moved out of the number one spot, and he never -- I never heard him complain one
time or offer an excuse. It was always I'll get it together, I'm going to keep working at
it. And I never saw him hang his head. I never saw him do anything -- Marquis Grissom
exhibited every trait you'd ever want to see out of a winner. And it's really -- that's
about as well as I could describe it or explain it. You wish everybody that you ever come
in contact with could be like Marquis Grissom.

Q. In view of the difficulty pitchers have in gripping the ball in cold weather, is
there an inclination or tendencies on hitters to take more pitches, maybe you could speak
from your own experience?

MIKE HARGROVE: No, I think there is. And from my own experience that you want -- I try
to get ahead in the count anyway. When you get ahead in the count and hit deep in the
count, you're a good hitter, so you're trying to do that anyway. But I've really found in
playing in cold weather, that players don't think about it, they don't -- the good ones
don't allow the weather conditions to dictate how they play. So I really don't think that
the weather is going to be -- as I said, an advantage or disadvantage to either team. 

Q. What do you think about this pattern you have established in all three series where
you open on the road, you lose the first game, win the second game and so far you've gone
on to win, is this a good sign?

MIKE HARGROVE: Well, it's certainly not good for your stomach lining doing it that way.
But hopefully history will keep repeating itself. Gosh, whether we're going to win it or
not, I do not know. But I do know that we sure want to and we'll play very hard to
accomplish that, just like the Marlins have the same goal. But I wouldn't recommend to
another team to lose the first game of a series, it just is not good for your mental
health at all.

Q. Mike, a lot of your players have treated most of the season as business as usual.
Two questions, if I may. The first one is, has there been any desire or any need to get
the younger ones or the less experienced ones to temper their excitement? Secondly, an all
together different question, Jim Thome, how far has he come this season?

MIKE HARGROVE: Our younger players, I don't think we need to tone down any of their
excitement, because they should be excited. Our veteran people are excited, too, it
exhibits itself in different ways. So I don't think that's a problem, at all. Jim Thome is
a good athlete. And being a good athlete with talent, those types of people are able to
adjust and to adapt to new situations fairly quickly and fairly well and Jimmy has done
that. Jimmy has good hands. There are times he'll make the wrong play at first base, but
that's due to his inexperience at first base. But Jimmy has done a tremendous job and
learns more and more every day. I'm very happy with Jim Thome at first base.

Q. Mike, do you have any thoughts or theories on why a guy like Marquis gets hot at
this time of year, in October. Going back to Billy Martin, Bobby Richardson, is this
something different than --

MIKE HARGROVE: My theory, you combine it with 50 cents might get you a cup of coffee in
most places, you talk about people that can turn their game up a notch, I think Marquis
does this, and from a mental side of it. This game at this level is so dependent -- the
important factor is the mental side is just tremendously important. And I see good players
are able to really focus in and zone in on what it is they're trying to accomplish. And
they're able to let their talent work for them, instead of trying to make it work. That's
my opinion, my theory.

Q. Twenty-five hits in the first two games, any reason why you've been able to hit the
Marlins pitching so well?

MIKE HARGROVE: We've got a good offensive ball club, and they've got good pitchers, we
just happened to hit them the last two nights where they weren't standing. Especially last
night -- Kevin Brown is a ground ball pitcher, we hit ground balls that got through, and
some of them came in on key situations, that's just the way the game goes. If you've got
good hitters and put the ball in play you've got a chance for good things to happen. But
good pitching will predominantly beat good hitting.

Q. There was a lot made about this was the first World Series in Florida, was there
anything you saw either on or off the field that you said to yourself this could have only
happened in Florida?

MIKE HARGROVE: No. Staying at the beach might have been one of things. I didn't see
anything that would make me say this could only happen in Florida, no.

Q. Mike, was there a point in this season where the quality of your play, including
pitching, made you think this might not be conceivable for you?

MIKE HARGROVE: No, not really, to tell you the truth. I really believe in this team
from day one. I kept waiting for the ball club to come around and start playing
consistently well, and I kept believing and saying as soon as our pitching settles in
we'll be okay, and that turned out to be the case. But there was never a point in time
that I never thought it wasn't possible. There were a couple of points where I thought if
this doesn't break the right way, we're in trouble, sure, I'm not stupid. But there never
was a time that I quit believing that this team had every chance in the world to be a good
team.

Q. Would you talk about the Al Leiter you have either seen or heard since he's been in
Florida, and the Al Leiter you knew in the American League?

MIKE HARGROVE: The Al Leiter we knew in the American League, when he pitched for
Toronto, was very difficult for us to hit. He threw a lot of strikes, and from what I
heard about Al in the National League, especially this year, is that he's had a little bit
of trouble throwing strikes at times. But he's still a very, very effective and good
pitcher. He's one of the new left-handers that can really power up right-hand hitters
inside and get them out.

Q. Mike, after one, two-run win, and six straight one-run wins, how did you handle the
9th inning last night? 

MIKE HARGROVE: Not very well. It's a manager's job to imagine the worst. That pretty
much -- it's the manager's job to imagine the worst, prepare to not let that happen, and
so even with a five-run lead going into the 9th inning, I was still very much afraid. So
but once we got the first two outs I felt a lot better.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT