MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 19, 1997
Mike Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Mike, anything you can point to as to why Omar has been struggling offensively since
the Division Series?

MIKE HARGROVE: Dennis, I think as much as anything, Omar has been aggressive at the
plate, a little more anxious swinging at pitches that normally he doesn't swing and so I
think that that's it as much as anything. Omar makes the pitcher get the ball down, and
Omar is a very effective hitter.

Q. Mike, with the spectacular kind of year Sandy has had, have you ever been tempted to
move him up in the order?

MIKE HARGROVE: Yeah, I have, and I have moved him at times, there's been times this
year he's hit 5th and 6th, but he's been good hitting 6th, 7th and 8th. So I almost go
back to the old theory, if it ain't broke, don't fix it. And Sandy, I want to feel
comfortable, I want him to feel comfortable hitting where he's at and so consequently I've
left him pretty much in one of those spots all along. But, yes, I thought about moving him
up. 

Q. Mike, what would you say the main differences are between this team and your '95
World Series team?

MIKE HARGROVE: This team pays a lot more attention to the little things. I think it
fundamentally is much more sound. I don't think it knows the game any better, I don't
think it plays the game any harder, but I think that they realize that for this team to be
successful we have to be fundamentally sound. The '95 team, while they knew the
fundamentals were important, they also knew from experience that if they missed a cut off
man or didn't turn a double play and allowed two runs to score, they hit a homerun and
made up for it. That was the mentality of that ball club, and it's hard to change that.
This ball club, while it's a good hitting ball club, it doesn't have that mentality, and
they play the game very well.

Q. How difficult was it from your viewpoint to turn over the personnel as much as this
team did and get back to the World Series this quickly?

MIKE HARGROVE: Taking into consideration the character and the heart and the talent of
these people, it was not as -- it wasn't easy, but it wasn't an impossible task,
obviously. These guys, the guys on this ball club are, as I say, good people with a lot of
talent, but they also have a lot of character and a lot of heart and they enjoy playing
the game of baseball and they play it very hard. And I've found you can do a lot of things
with people like that. And I think that's probably the biggest reason we've been able to
do this. The front office did a great job getting the guys in, and my staff and I've
worked very hard at trying to get them together to where we could do this. But a lot of
the credit goes to those guys, the guys on the team, the players themselves, because
they're the ones that do it.

Q. Mike, we're going back to Cleveland this week, as a guy who was part of the dark
years there, can you describe what it's like to be a part of what's been happening there
now?

MIKE HARGROVE: You make it sound like the Middle Ages. Gosh, the fans that we get there
now, there's 43,000 of them now that yell as loud as they can, before there was only
10,000 that yelled as loud as they can. That's about as basic as you can get. The feeling
is night and day. I don't know exactly how to describe it other than that, it's the
opposite ends of the spectrum -- to where people were at times fearful of letting other
people know they liked the Indians, now people at times fall over themselves trying to get
the last Indian T-shirt or baseball hat. And I first started noticing that changing in '94
when traveling around the country, we would play in other towns, you saw more people with
Indian paraphernalia on it, so that was fun. There are a lot of differences as you've gone
along, but our fans are just as loyal and just as loud as ever. We've just got a lot more
of them now.

Q. Mike, it's rather obvious or a fair assumption that Cleveland got the very best of
the Grissom and Justice deal. How long did they have to talk to you to get it?

MIKE HARGROVE: Not very long. Kenny Lofton was and is a very good player. I think Kenny
is by no stretch of the imagination toward the end of his career. He's a very special
player. And Kenny was -- this spring Kenny was very good for our club, he really, really
was, and a big reason why Cleveland -- we'd been able to get to where we were. But it was
real obvious that Kenny was -- it was very unlikely that Kenny was going to sign back with
Cleveland. John Hart made the decision, after talking to a lot of people that we would try
to move Kenny if we could, and the Atlanta deal came along, and when John first mentioned
that that was out there and asked me if I would do that deal, I was -- it was a very
exciting prospect to tell you the truth, because not very often do you lose a player of
the magnitude of Kenny and get two players back like Grissom and Justice. And those guys
have been golden for us all year long by the attitude they've brought to the ball club, in
the office and on the field. Those two guys are winners, and they make the people around
them better.

Q. Mike, there were some complaints during the season here about the mound being very
steep, any of your people complain about that last night?

MIKE HARGROVE: We were aware of it coming in. And I think the only time -- Eric Plunk
tripped or fell on his first slip -- on his first delivery to home. And that's the only
evidence we saw of it. The pitchers didn't say much about it, but it's -- it looks like a
high mound, it really does.

MIKE HARGROVE: We haven't had any complaints.

Q. How did it come out, Phyllis?

Q. Mike, if you had to pinpoint right now trailing one-nothing in the series. In the
clubhouse who are the one or two leaders on the team, the players that keep them going and
keep the enthusiasm going high?

MIKE HARGROVE: You know, I really -- it's hard for me to tell you that because it's not
all just one or two guys, really the entire group keep each other going, they really feed
off each other, but if I had to point to one or two guys, probably David Justice, Mike
Jackson, Omar Vizquel, they believe in themselves and believe in each other. And they
really -- they feed off each other. It's difficult to just single one or two guys out,
because the whole group stays pretty much in focus and with each other.

Q. Mike, you're down 1-0, same thing you were with Yankees and the Orioles, and after
the game last night everybody was loose, calm, there was no nervousness or panic. How has
that helped you guys and how does that come about?

MIKE HARGROVE: You know, I don't think -- I think we've lost six of the last seven of
the series. We don't try to do it. I don't think that's any confidence to us, going into
situations in that regard. But we know how far we've come against what odds this year
already. And we know that we've gotten to where we've gotten by believing in each other
and by believing, we stay focused and stay directed, stay concentrated on what we're
doing, then we have a chance for our talent to help get us where we want to be. And that
formula has worked all year long, especially in the postseason, and there's no reason to
change it. And there's no reason in panicking over something that you can't control,
because it's already over with. We've already lost Game 1. It doesn't work to sit and stew
over Game 1 when you've got Game 2 facing you. Really the old cliche, you take it a game
at a time, and this ball club has been good doing that this postseason.

Q. Do you think the cold weather in Cleveland will be an advantage for this team
because you are somewhat used to that as opposed to South Florida?

MIKE HARGROVE: I don't see how. Baseball is meant to be played in warm weather -- meant
to be played in warm weather. Our guys like to play in warm weather, just like anybody
else does. I don't know that it's an advantage or disadvantage for anybody. The Marlins
have played around the country and played in cold weather this year, also. So we just have
to wait and see.

Q. Mike, how important has Sandy Alomar been to this team this year, and in general how
important is it to have a strong character in a defensive position?

MIKE HARGROVE: Sandy -- the old saying that the teams that are strong up the middle are
the teams that have a chance to win, to paraphrase it. And Sandy certainly gives us that
at the catching position. This is really the first year that Sandy has been healthy. He
spent a lot of time and effort this last off season in gaining strength in his legs and
his upper body and I think we've seen that pay off. Because he's been stronger longer this
year than he has in the past. Sandy has come up big for us all year long. I was talking to
somebody this afternoon, we were talking about when Powell came in the game last night and
Sandy swung at a questionable 0-2 pitch leading off from the beginning. They said would
you rather have him take there, Sandy has been good all year long, it's difficult for me
to second guess him in any situation, and I'm not going to start doing that, because Sandy
has really been a big reason why we've gotten where we are. And he's one of the good guys.
He's gone through a lot, and has still stayed with it, and I think one of the top overall
catchers in the game, offensively and defensively. It would be very difficult for us to
have gone anywhere without Sandy Alomar.

Q. How much stock did you put in those radar gun readings on the board last night?

MIKE HARGROVE: Well, I don't know that I've seen anybody throw the ball any harder than
Nolan Ryan, and I'm not sure he threw it more than a hundred miles an hour. I know Robb
Nen throws the ball hard, but I don't know about 102 miles an hour. Benitez in Baltimore
throws the ball as hard as I've seen, and they had him at over a hundred to answer your
question, I don't put a lot of stock in it.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT