MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 18, 1997
Mike Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What was the basic thinking on the second base situation, was it a difficult
decision to make as to who would start at second base?

MIKE HARGROVE: It was not an easy decision. I'm not going to say it was very difficult.
I had some things I wanted to weigh and look at and think about, and decided that I wanted
-- would like to see Bip bat in the line-up and keep Tony ready to come in if we needed
him. It wasn't an easy decision, but it wasn't that difficult. It came down to the fact
that I wanted Bip's bat and speed in the line-up.

Q. Who was it who hit the homerun who won the last game you played?

MIKE HARGROVE: I don't remember, it's too long ago. Bip's the lead-off hitter, Tony is
not. If Bip's not in the line-up we don't have a lead-off hitter.

Q. Mike, other teams have pitched around Sheffield all year. Was he the one guy that
you don't want to let beat you also?

MIKE HARGROVE: They have a few guys in there that I'd just as soon not have any of them
beat us. But there are people that we have targeted in their line-up we want to be extra
careful against, and Gary Sheffield is obviously one of those, sure.

Q. Mike, having the defense that you guys have, is it easier putting Bip in the
line-up, because you have so many other guys that excel at defense?

MIKE HARGROVE: Bip is not a defensive liability. Let's not make this like we've got to
have three people to make up for Bip if we put him in the line-up. Bip is a very good
Major League player. He played well once he settled in, he played well defensively for us
at second base. And we do have Tony ready to come in in the later innings if we have a
lead and it's a tight ballgame, to come in at second base for defense. We have been strong
up the middle with Vizquel and a combination of Branson and Roberts and Fernandez. And
with Sandy Alomar behind the plate. So it's one of those things that I've got Bip in the
line-up because of Bip's offensive capabilities. If I don't have Bip in the line-up we
don't have a true lead-off hitter. And Bip gives us that. That's the reason we acquired
Bip in the first place. Bip plays well enough on second base to allow us to do that.

Q. What I meant to ask more along the lines of do you feel secure every day because you
have such a good defensive line-up out there. Does it make you feel secure with the
switches you can make because you have such good defense out there?

MIKE HARGROVE: I don't think the manager is very secure, anyway. But I understand what
you're saying, yes, I think that it obviously does, when you have people that can catch
the ball the way we have people that can catch the ball, sure, it makes the decision
easier. Is that what you meant? Yeah.

Q. How much has Kevin Brown changed, if at all, as a pitcher since you first saw him in
the American League, is he just more effective in what he does now?

MIKE HARGROVE: You know, I don't know that he's really changed since he was in the
American League. He still throws the ball as hard as he ever did. Still has that nasty
sinker and I don't know if he's changed in any regard.

Q. How about the way Chad has pitched in the playoffs, especially after the trouble he
had in the regular season with all the injuries?

MIKE HARGROVE: Chad Ogea, no matter where he's pitched or where he's been, Little
League, high school baseball or college or the professional ranks, has been a winner.
There are a lot of people that tried to pigeon hole Chad to be a middle reliever, but Chad
keeps coming back and proving everybody wrong. He's got three pitches, two different types
of fast balls, if he can locate his fastball and have command of his curve ball and change
up, Chad can be very good, and that's what he's done in the playoffs for us. I think we've
seen what a healthy Chad Ogea can do. And you'd like to see people like that on the mound.

Q. David Justice yesterday was saying that his shoulder feels fine and he hasn't had
much experience in left field. What is your thinking about playing him in left rather than
right field?

MIKE HARGROVE: He's had more experience playing the left field than Ramirez has. David
is a very good athlete, and has made the adjustment to left field about as well as one
could expect. I will not argue with David or anybody else that says he's a better right
field than left fielder, I think he probably is, but he's also a good left fielder for us.
And it's been my experience if you take people that are good athletes they're able to
better adjust to new positions than other people. So we moved him to left field and not
Ramirez. 

Q. Is this the longest you've seen Jim Thome struggle at the plate?

MIKE HARGROVE: It probably is. He started the last couple of games -- started swinging
the bat better. Maybe the last 8 to 10 at-bats his swings have been more exact, more sure,
more firm, I guess, is the word I'm looking for.

Q. Has he gotten too long?

MIKE HARGROVE: He's been trying to hit the ball too far and too hard. That causes a lot
of bad habits. And it's taken us a long time to get him out of those habits. But this is
as long as I've seen Jimmy go in this manner.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT