MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 17, 1997
Mike Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Mike, there's been a lot made about Sandy's year offensively, can you talk about him
defensively and how he worked with a challenging pitching staff?

MIKE HARGROVE: Sandy has had a very good year for us, solid all the way around. We've
seen -- I don't want to say a tremendous improvement, but we've seen a part of Sandy's
game really pick up, and that's the way he's handled the pitching staff and got the most
out of the pitchers we have. It's been a very difficult pitching year for us because we've
had so many people hurt, and Sandy's has been a big part of how we survived that and get
back to where our pitching has settled in and became consistent for us and do what we've
done. Sandy's year has been a big year for us. I think something he can do every year, I
don't think this is the peak of his career, I certainly think what he's done offensively
and defensively is something he can continue.

Q. Would you detail your pitching rotation and tell us why it is and what it is?

MIKE HARGROVE: I could, and then I'd have to kill you. We are going to go with
Hershiser in Game 1, Chad Ogea in 2, Nagy in 3 and Jaret Wright in game 4. We feel that
gives us the best possible people to come back and pitch in the late series and we're not
sure that we want to risk bringing the kid back on three days rest, if we had to. And we
feel giving him a Game 4 start is the best for him and the ball club.

Q. How is David Justice and how do you think you might be able to use him?

MIKE HARGROVE: David is fine. David will play left field.

Q. Mike, are you making any roster moves off your ALCS roster?

MIKE HARGROVE: No, we'll go with 14 players and 11 pitchers, just like we had in the
ALCS.

Q. When you started in New York in the division series you talked with Roberts and the
aggressiveness he brings. Do you plan to utilize him and does Charles Johnson factor in?

MIKE HARGROVE: I don't know how Charles Johnson couldn't figure in. That's the premiere
defensive catcher in the game today. We still have to be aggressive. You win ballgames by
putting pressure on the other ball club. And running the bases and putting pressure on
them in that regard is part of it. We want to be aggressive on the bases and he figures
into that. Is Bip going to play tomorrow, I'm not sure yet. But we'll look at it.

Q. You're not sure because of his injury, because of his thumb or --

MIKE HARGROVE: I'm just not sure. I'm just not sure that I don't want to go with Tony
Fernandez.

Q. Is his thumb okay?

MIKE HARGROVE: His thumb is okay. I talked to him today and he said his thumb is fine.

Q. Back to your rotation for one second, please. Did you design it to get veterans out
there as much as possible?

MIKE HARGROVE: We designed it because we're not sure how much Jaret Wright has left in
his tank. This is the longest he's pitched in his career, the most innings he's pitched in
his career, the first time he pitched in postseason, we're not sure how much he has left
in his tank, and for that reason we've gone the way we've gone. We've gone with Hershiser
the first game. The earliest Nagy can pitch is Game 3. So say Jay fits in Game 2.

Q. You dropped Jim Thome down in the batting order for the last game with Baltimore,
will he be back in his regular spot?

MIKE HARGROVE: There's every chance he will be. I'll make that decision before
tomorrow. If you wrote he was going to hit 4th I couldn't argue with you right now.

Q. The questions about Orel doing things to the ball, is that a problem for you or him?

MIKE HARGROVE: Not a problem for me. I've said all along since Orel has been here, that
Orel does not doctor the ball, he doesn't put any foreign substance on the ball. Orel has
a very, very good sinker. When he has it going, you can see why he set the record for
scoreless innings. The accusations that came out of Baltimore, that's part of it, that's
part of the game. I played with Perry, they did the same to him. But Orel, as far as I
know, and I've got to believe that Orel does not put anything on the ball. And I know that
Ogea doesn't. I think that's best dropped.

Q. Mike, did you learn anything in '95 that you can apply to this series in terms of
your own personal approach?

MIKE HARGROVE: Obviously you want me to say yes, but I can't think of anything. I think
we all learned. Anytime we go through any kind of experience -- have any kind of
experience with anything you learn from things or it's been a wasted experience, the other
things I've learned, I've learned a little about the National League game that I didn't
know before, having never played it or been involved in it. I think that there's certain
time, certain things that I learned that taught me to go ahead and trust my instincts more
than I did at that time, and so, yeah, there's a few things. Nothing huge, but a lot of
little things.

Q. Is it strange to you at all to play in the so-called Fall Classic in Florida?

MIKE HARGROVE: Oh, no, not at all. The Marlins have a very good ball club, very good
organization. I've got a lot of -- I've got a few good friends on that ball club, and the
hard work they've put in getting here, just like we have, no, I think it's fantastic to
come to South Florida and play the Marlins in the World Series. It doesn't seem strange at
all.

Q. Is this enjoyable to you, or are you too busy to have fun while you're going through
it?

MIKE HARGROVE: I think it's one of those experiences that I'm not having a lot of fun
right now, but talk to me in two weeks and I'll tell you I had a blast. There's a lot of
stuff that's going on that needs to be taken care of and I can't afford to let myself lose
focus, just like the players cannot afford it. Now is not the time to have a lot of fun.

Q. What was the biggest thing you took out of the experience two years ago that would
be helpful in this one?

MIKE HARGROVE: The obvious things you've got to look past the glitter and glamour, to
understand there's a job to do still. The biggest thing I learned between '95 and now is
how terribly difficult it is to get this far.

Q. Could you comment on Brian Eric Anderson, comment on him being an Ohio native.

MIKE HARGROVE: The way Brian Anderson throws I couldn't care if he's from Alaska or
Ohio. He throws the ball very, very well. It's a really neat thing that he is from Ohio
and has been an Indian fan all his life. I think that's a very good story. But the fact
that Brian Anderson is a good Major League pitcher and can get hitters out for us is more
important to us. Talking to Brian about being an Ohio native and playing for the Indians,
you'll have to talk to him about that. 

Q. You guys have beat up Hershiser in the two spring games that you faced him, have you
got any sense of what's changed?

MIKE HARGROVE: I think his physical conditioning has changed from when we saw him last
year, I believe it was last year. The last time we saw him was in Puerto Rico. He had good
stuff then. And it was by no means an easy job to do what we did against him. He is a very
good pitcher, has good stuff. From the game that I saw in Game 6, I believe it was -- has
very good command of his pitches and located them very well in that game. And that
probably is the biggest difference. It is the command and location that I saw out of him
on TV watching. He looked like a much better pitcher in that regard. He's very good or
Jimmy Leyland wouldn't be starting him in Game 1.

Q. Two years ago we had very few players who had World Series experience. Two years
later it's kind of reversed, you've got the numbers on your side versus the Marlins. Is
that an advantage or how much of an advantage?

MIKE HARGROVE: The only time that's an advantage is if we play better than the Marlins.
That's really what it comes down to. I don't mean to be smart or facetious, it comes down
to what team plays the best, and the most consistent. And experience at times has nothing
to do with that.

Q. You and your players have a little different perspective this time having won 86
games, instead of '95 when you dominated the League?

MIKE HARGROVE: As I said, one of the things I learned in '95, we expected to be in the
World Series and win the World Series. So when we got there I don't want to say it was a
breeze, because it wasn't, we had to play good baseball to get there, but as you said, we
dominated a lot of teams that year. This year we haven't done that, we've had to play
exceptionally well to get here and I think we appreciate it a lot more but we realize how
terribly difficult it is to get this far and really has nothing to do with the 86 wins. I
think if you were willing to look below the surface at the 86 wins, you'll see that one of
the contributing factors to that was the fact that we had a lot of pitching that was hurt
all year long. And I don't think it was any coincidence that we started playing
consistently well once our pitching started getting healthy in September.

Q. Mike, earlier in the season when the Indians were struggling and there was talk
about your future, do you feel any vindication at all of having gotten here?

MIKE HARGROVE: Yes and no. Anytime a team struggles the manager's job is in jeopardy,
that's the nature of the business. So from that point it didn't surprise me, it didn't
make me feel very good, but it didn't surprise me. Do I feel any vindication? I've had a
lot of confidence in my abilities for a long time, and I think I do a pretty good job at
times. And so if there's any vindication it's in that regard, if that's the way it is. But
maybe it's more validation than vindication.

Q. What do you think of the job that your front office has done in retooling your team
from '95 and what's the biggest difference in your mind?

MIKE HARGROVE: If I tell you they did a terrible job then I'm out of a job (laughter).
What they've done, I think, is incredible or maybe remarkable in that it really changed
the entire face of this club, the entire personality of this club really from '96, even,
or mid season '96. But it doesn't surprise me because of the people there are very, very
good, very well prepared in what they do. And I'll go back to what I said the whole time
in Baltimore, when people kept talking about us getting all the breaks, and I said good
team put themselves in the position to take advantage of opportunities that present
themselves, and I think good front offices do that and ours certainly has consistently
done that. So I think they've done a great job, obviously. The second part of the question
is --

Q. What do you think the biggest difference is?

MIKE HARGROVE: The biggest difference is we have a team now that understands the value
of playing fundamentally sound baseball. The teams in '95 and '96 we had players on that
team that had tremendous talent, didn't pay attention to the fundamentals, because they
could out hit their mistakes. That was a fact of those teams. You could go blue in the
face talking to them about certain things. And it was very hard to get your point across
when they'd go out and club people to death. This team can't do that or hasn't done that,
so consequently the importance of playing fundamentally sound baseball was even more
obvious.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT