AL DIVISION SERIES: INDIANS v YANKEES
October 2, 1997
Mike Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. The way the Yankees have played in Cleveland, will going home be an advantage for
you?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Sounds to me like you've already answered your own question. The Yankees
have historically played well at Jacob's Field. It will be an advantage for us? Sure.
We'll be playing in front of our fans. And it will be our home, so, yeah. 
 
Q. You've decided to stick with Jim at first base?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Yes. Consistently, throughout the second half of the season, we've
stayed with Jimmy against left-handed pitchers. There have been some times we haven't to
give a rest or he doesn't match up well against a left-handed pitcher. He's only had six
bats against Andy, that he matches up pretty well against Andy, and what we've done -- or
what I've done is move him out of the four-hole down to the seven-hole in the last half of
the season, that's what we did today. 
 
Q. What did you, in reflection, think of Curtis' stand up at the second base?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Knowing Chad Curtis -- if I didn't know Chad Curtis, I would have said
it was a good, clean, dirty play. But knowing him, I know he wasn't intentionally trying
to hurt anybody. It's very unusual to see a runner not slide at second base when a
doubleplay is being turned. And that was my initial reaction, was surprise, so... 
 
Q. Would you speak about the effectiveness of the Yankees bullpen?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: The difference is obviously they came in and shut us down and allowed
them to get to Nelson and Rivera. It was the difference in the ballgame in us not being
able to get to the back end of our bullpen. Later, when we got to Jackson, then Mike came
and did his job. That was obviously the difference in the game. They kept the game in line
and let the offense catch their breath and come back and ours didn't. 
 
Q. What are your feelings about the umpires claiming that they're going to have tougher
standards or being -- asserting themselves more in the playoffs?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: The easiest thing to say would be no comment. That would be the easiest
thing to say. But I don't think -- I don't think anybody needs to assert themselves. We're
here to play the game and watch the players play the game. That's what the game is all
about, is the players. It's not about the managers or the writers, it's about the players,
not the umpires. If everybody goes out and does their jobs, things will take care of
themselves. I understand where they're coming from. But it's still the game of baseball,
let's play the game. 
 
Q. Could you talk about Tony Fernandez, what you expected from him considering he'd
been out, what you expected from the start of the year?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: The big uncertainty coming into Spring Training was his health; how
healthy would he stay the entire year because of his arm. We expected Tony -- I told Tony
in Spring Training that I was going to try to get him between 300 and 400 at-bats. We were
trying to find Franco a spot to keep him in the line-up. So I envisioned Tony splitting
time between second base and shortstop to give Vizquel a rest. He settled in more on
second base, but he still got his 300 to 400 at-bats. He's done a good job for us;
especially from the right side of the plate. And Tony has really improved at second base,
in turning the double play and positioning himself and the whole nine yards. He's a much
better second baseman today than he was at the start of the season. But Tony has been very
good for us, been very good for us. 
 
Q. From what I hear, you held Wright back from pitching against the Yankees. Can you go
over some of your reasons for that?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Well, the reason being is that the Yankees had never seen Jaret, and
there was no reason -- we clinched the division title. We had our pitching set up to where
Jaret was going to pitch the second game anyway, and there was no reason to pitch him
other than it was his regular turn. We didn't feel it would hurt moving him back a couple
of days, and not let the Yankees see what his pitches do. You can sit and watch all the
film and video you want, and it's not like firsthand knowledge -- a fastball is very
rarely straight, and until you see it firsthand, there is adjustment. And we were hoping
that whatever little edge that might give us, we could take advantage of, and that's the
reason. 
 
Q. What makes Andy Pettitte so tough?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: He's from Texas (LAUGHTER.) Andy, he has good command of his pitches,
he's not afraid to pitch inside. And he's got the dynamite little cutter that he throws in
on right-handers. That's the experience I've had in watching Andy. That and the fact he's
from Texas. 
 
Q. Omar's acrobatics, do they ever worry you?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: No, they really don't. I think that I've seen him -- you mean worry that
he's going to get hurt or not make the play? 
 
Q. Either way.
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: No to both ways, just for the simple reason I've seen him do it enough
in practice and Spring Training and during the season that I've seen him make those plays
time and time and time again in tough situations and always come up with the play. I've
learned -- the one thing I've learned is that you've got to let people be who they're
going to be to take advantage of their talent. 
 
Q. You think Matt Williams will benefit being in the number 4 spot? 
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: I don't think it really makes any difference to Matt where he hits in
the line-up. I think early in the season hitting in the 4 hole he put a lot of pressure on
himself replacing Albert, and moving him out of that spot I think that put a lot of
pressure off. Matt is a professional, he knows how to play, and Matt has settled in the
second half of the year and done very, very well for us. And moving him from the 6 hole to
the 4 hole I don't think has any effect on him whatsoever. He's still got to swing the
bat, and Matt is a good player. So I don't think Tuesday night's game affects him
whatsoever. 
 
Q. Is Seitzer physically able to play in the field now?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Yes, he is. His ankle -- he had the appendectomy, and he's recovered
from that, which is a minor miracle in itself. But the ankle sprain has hobbled him a
little bit. In watching him run, Kevin has never been a burner anyway, but in watching him
run, he runs fairly well with just a small, slight limp. It really came down -- the
question came down to whether him or Thome tonight is the fact that Jimmy has had more
success with Andy. But I'm not afraid to use Kevin at all. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT