AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 10, 1999
Mike Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Have you been able to see anything in Manny's swing or approach to the plate to
maybe tip off why he's in a slump?

MIKE HARGROVE: I think that the reason Manny -- I don't necessarily think he's in a
slump. I think he's being pitched to very well. I think the Red Sox are doing a good job
of hitting their spots and making the pitches when they need to against Manny.

Q. What's the feeling for you, the club, to see Dave Burba go out there and battle and
then have to come out of the game with the injury?

MIKE HARGROVE: I think he's probably much like, you know, the comments and feelings you
got from the Red Sox whenever Pedro came out with an injury. It takes you back a little
bit, and David was throwing the ball very well, essentially shut the Red Sox down. And,
you know, kind of the momentum, you felt it shift.

Q. If you advance to the next round, what are the prospects for Burba starting on time?

MIKE HARGROVE: I think it's day-to-day. Really, right now, we don't know any more. I
think we'll know more tomorrow after we get back to Cleveland and are able to get an MRI
done on David's forearm. I think we'll know a little bit more, have a little more
definitive answer for you. Right now, it's day-to-day.

Q. You're starting Cordero today. Given his problems in Boston, is there any reluctance
on your part or the part of the organization to sign him?

MIKE HARGROVE: No. Will's a baseball player. Will has been good for us, you know,
obviously his problems here in Boston were publicized. But that's -- that is hopefully
behind him. I think that he's taken steps to remedy the situation. But it has no
consideration as far as -- or bearing on him either being in the line-up or not being in
the line-up. Will Cordero is a very good baseball player.

Q. Grover, if you don't have Dave, who are the candidates to take his spot in the
rotation?

MIKE HARGROVE: I don't want to answer that right now. I don't think it's fair to the
people involved. We've got to win here, first, to get to that next round, so I think that
-- while I understand your curiosity, I think maybe it's a little premature for us to
start making announcements on that right now.

Q. What kind of expectations do you have for Bartolo on the three days' rest?

MIKE HARGROVE: Obviously the expectations are good. We expect him to throw well, pitch
well, Bartolo has been doing that for us this year the second half of the season.
Obviously we'll watch him and monitor him, his pitch count, the innings, the time between
innings, a lot of things. The last thing we want to do is hurt Bartolo Colon. So we'll
monitor that situation very closely.

Q. The Red Sox seem to think that the momentum has shifted their way. Do you think
that, agree with that? Talk about the mood of your club.

MIKE HARGROVE: The mood of our club is very well. I don't sense a shift in momentum,
but then again, you know, that's the Red Sox' prerogative to feel that way. That's fine.
You know, they're playing very loose right now. They have a good ballclub. You know, it's
-- they're not chopped liver over there. They've got a good club. But as far as the mood
of my ballclub, which I can answer to, it's a very upbeat mood and we're ready to play.

Q. You've chosen to pitch Bartolo on three days rest. If there's a game tomorrow --
Manny on three days; is it a big deal to shift a guy in this stage of the season?

MIKE HARGROVE: I don't think it's -- you know, a lot of clubs do this. I don't think
that it should be magnified in any regard. You get into the post-season, a lot of clubs
will come up and have pitchers pitch on three days. So, yeah, I think if there's -- if
it's -- yeah, I guess -- I haven't really heard anybody, yet, you know, talk about it a
whole lot. I think that you look at the situation and the starters that we have available
and we're doing what we have to do.

Q. Will you have Richie in there tonight as well, and along with Cordero, if you do
have them in there, can you talk about that freshness they bring to the line-ups? Some of
the guys have been struggling a little bit.

MIKE HARGROVE: Well, they should be well-rested. You know, I don't know if they bring
any more freshness than is already there. The people they're going to replace in Baines
and Justice are two very fine players in their own right. It just gives us a different
look against a left-handed pitcher, and I don't know if they bring a freshness to the
line-up. I don't know if we need a freshness to our line-up. We have a good ballclub, and
as I said before, we're ready to play.

Q. I think I saw that your batting order tonight has Jim Thome batting seventh, moving
down in the order. Is that because of the lefty/lefty matchup?

MIKE HARGROVE: You're exactly right. It's because of the left-hander swing.

Q. Can you just talk about Kent Mercker, he was left off your post-season roster in
'96. Do you think that might give him a little bit of an added revenge factor here?

MIKE HARGROVE: You'd have to talk to Kent about revenge factor. I don't think that that
enters into it. Certainly, I would have to refresh my memory as to why we left Kent off
the roster. I remember leaving him off. But I don't remember the specifics. Obviously, it
was not personal. So, you know, if there's any revenge factor, revenge motivation, Kent
could better answer that. I read somewhere in the paper today that there's no bad blood
between him and us, and that certainly is how we feel. You know, I think Kent Mercker's a
good guy. He's a good pitcher. We're looking forward to facing him tonight and we know we
have our work cut out for us. But as far as revenge, no, I don't see that.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT