AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 9, 1999
Mike Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you talk about the injuries you had all year long and then coming into the
playoffs, your squad seems to have gotten through that and playing well. Can you talk
about how well they're playing despite the injuries during the regular season?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Well, obviously we're a lot more healthy now than we were during the
season. I don't think this time of the season any team's 100 percent healthy, but we're
certainly a lot better off now than we were. We were very fortunate in that we had good
Minor League people to rely on that we called up. Our Minor League development people did
a tremendous job in getting these guys ready to play, guys like Jeff Dance and Joel
Skinner, the managers that are Triple A and Double A affiliates did a tremendous job as
well as our scouts and coaches. So we were able to weather the storm and find some things
out about guys like Alex Ramirez, Cruz. It's paying off so well. 
 
Q. I was wondering if you can talk about Alomar, what he's meant in this series and in
the whole series.
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: I don't think that unless you get a chance to watch Robbie Alomar
perform on a daily basis you truly realize what a special talent he has. He is a
tremendous student of the game, understands the game, the dynamics of the game. He has the
ability to go out and play the game like -- I mean, and I'm not saying this just because
he's my player, like nobody else I've ever seen the game. There's so many ways that he can
help your team win with his glove, with his speed, with his bat, with his knowledge of the
game on the field. Robbie saves you trips to the mound. There's a tremendous case that
should be made for Robbie as the MVP of the League this year. 
 
Q. How would you describe the 1999 Red Sox team?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Scary. They scare you because they don't quit. They obviously played us
very well during the regular season. They've just, I mean Jimy Williams and his staff do a
good job. It's a very professional team, they go out, they play every day, they don't
offer excuses. They don't win, they don't win and they try to get you tomorrow. And I
think that I admire people like that and respect people like that. So, you know, Red Sox
have obviously -- this year -- had their share of problems and injuries, and -- but they
continue to be -- to conduct themselves and play like winners. 
 
Q. Is there any way to explain the success that the Indians have had against the Red
Sox, particularly in the post-season?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: No, I don't think that -- no. And I don't, you know, I don't know why,
it's just maybe when the Red Sox have caught us in the post-season, you know, we've been
playing well. And maybe in the regular season we haven't been playing as well. I certainly
don't know the reason for it, but that's, for me, probably one of those things that's --
it may be better off not knowing the answer. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT