AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 9, 1999
Mike Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Mike, you're confronted with the sudden problem, Burba gets the tightness in the
wrist. Could you just run through going with Jaret and sticking with him as long as you
did?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Jaret's the only guy that we had with any length in the bull pen right
now. All of the rest of the guys out there are one or two inning guys. We were trying to
get through six or seven to be able to get to the back end of the bull pen and close it
out. That's the reason I stayed with him as long as I did. That was his last inning. 
 
Q. Has Burba had this for a couple starts? Is this a long-term, by long-term, could he
miss a start if you guys continue on?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Yes. We knew coming in to today's game that Dave was limited in the
number of innings he could go and the pitches he could throw. He just went -- tightened  
 up on him a lot sooner than we thought that it might. 
 
Q. Could you comment on Ramon Martinez' performance tonight?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: He threw strikes, threw fast balls and change ups. Had a good strategy,
run away from left-handed hitters. He kept his team in the game. Did a good job. 
 
Q. When did Burba get this condition?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: Jim, before his last start against Toronto. I forget, it was in Kansas
City. I can't remember where he pitched. But counting the Toronto start, the start before
that is when it came up. He had the same ailment when he started against Toronto and went
the five innings against Toronto. 
 
Q. When Phil went out there, is that what he was talking to Dave about, about the
condition of his elbow?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: No. But we were just talking about the, you know, the situation in the
game and trying to, you know, just try and settle him down a little bit. We had noticed
sitting on the bench he was doing a lot of gyrations with his hand and stretching,
stretching his arm. Looked like his forearm, that's where the injury was. So we kind of
had some indications that it was starting to tighten up on him. Trying to just get him
through the fourth inning. 
 
Q. You tried to get him through the seventh.
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: I thought Jaret could throw, he's been one of our starters all year. It
would have been his third inning. I didn't, you know, I felt he was throwing the ball
good, he was throwing hard. You know, we let him go one more inning. 
 
Q. Was Rincon and Offerman the matchup you really wanted as far as turning Offerman
around? After that, I mean was that a much less advantageous situation having him against
a power guy like Valentin?
 
 MIKE HARGROVE: The match up I wanted was Rincon, Nixon. We got that. And Rincon, you
know, he's as effective against right handers as he is left handers, has been throughout
his career. We decided to let him go through the left handers he had inserted through his
line-up. Offerman has been an effective -- less effective hitter. Power-wise, maybe a
little better. Average-wise he has been less effective as a right-handed hitter. I had
DePaula up to give me the option of whether or not to stay with Rincon through Valentin or
go to DePaula. Once the bases were loaded, I felt that Rincon gave us a better chance to
get Valentin out that DePaula would bring them in with the bases loaded. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT