AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 8, 1999
Mike Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you just talk a little bit about Burba's finish to the regular season and how
strong it was?

MIKE HARGROVE: David really, from the All-Star break on, was one of our better
pitchers. Fast ball, split-finger, slider that he throws, threw all of them for strikes
and pitched ahead in the count. When you do that and have the kind of stuff Dave has, you
give yourself a chance to be successful and that's what Dave was for us, you know, the
bulk of the time since it is the All-Star break.

Q. From the hitting standpoint, nobody in baseball took more pitches than the Indians
this year. Why is patience such an important factor at the plate?

MIKE HARGROVE: Well, I think that if you look at the majority of at-bats, successful
at-bats, you'll see that most of those counts were in good hitting counts when they were
deep in the count. I think between Charlie Manuel and myself, we talk a lot about hitting
obviously, and we both agree that the deeper the count you can get as a hitter, then the
better chance you have to be successful.

Q. Why?

MIKE HARGROVE: Why? Because you see -- you see what a pitcher's fast ball is doing, if
he's cutting it, is it a good cutter that day. Just every hitter is a guess hitter. They
really are, whether they tell you or not, they are. It's just an educated guess. You know
what that pitcher's out pitch is, strike pitch is, what he throws when he's behind in the
count for strikes. You know what he'll throw to you to challenge you. The deeper in the
count you get, then you have that information that you can -- you really can get into good
hitting situations that way.

Q. Coming in the series, the positives you heard about the team were what hitters you
were. In the meantime, you've only given up three runs in the series. Is that a surprise
and does that give you confidence?

MIKE HARGROVE: You know, I don't know that it's a surprise. It's very pleasant. We've
got good pitching, and every team has characteristics and personality, and I think that it
obviously has the ingredients that goes in to what makes it successful. And in any given
year, you know, one ingredient probably is going to get more credit than other
ingredients. We've, you know, we feel good about our pitching. I've said all along we have
good solid starting pitching. I think that's proven true over the last half of the season.
Our bullpen really has -- when healthy, we've had a good solid bullpen. So it's not a
surprise that we've pitched well. It certainly is pleasant, and, you know, am I confident
about, you know, this series and the rest of the series? I'm as confident as I can be, but
I also know that the Boston Red Sox have a very good ballclub and are managed by a very
good manager. I don't expect to get anything less than the best that the Red Sox have to
give us. That's not very -- that doesn't leave little warm and fuzzys in your stomach.
They have a good ballclub.

Q. What's your outlook on facing Ramon Martinez? Is there any sense that because he
hasn't pitched that much this year, he may have an advantage because you can't scout him
as you normally would?

MIKE HARGROVE: Ramon Martinez beat us the last time he pitched against us. We know we
have our work cut out for us. We know what his pitches are. We have had people in the
National League that have seen him, and so I mean it's not that he's an unknown, but we do
know that we've got to be very good to beat him, because last time we played him, we
weren't very good and he did beat us.

Q. Kenny Lofton, Sandy Alomar, Manny and David Justice have not done much offensively,
yet they played key roles in these first two games. What did these roles mean in winning
these first two games, their contributions? How significant were they?

MIKE HARGROVE: You know, I think that given the track record of those players, you
know, they bring a certain amount of respect to a game and set up things around them.
There are ways that you try to protect hitters in a line-up, and, you know, our line-up is
such that if we've got one or two or three guys that are not being productive, then we've
been able or fortunate enough that other guys have picked up the pace around them.
Defensively, David's been golden for us in left field, as Manny has in right and Kenny
really has in center. And Sandy is, you know, he just brings -- he brings a presence on
the field. He's a team leader. He's a take-charge guy on the field, and as with all good
players, there is more to them than just their offensive side. And I think you see that
out of those four guys, that they're able to contribute in other ways other than just with
a bat.

Q. When you guys traded for Burba, he really hadn't started that much. Did you think
he'd be the kind of pitcher that would give you 200 innings last year, 220 this year? I
mean would he be that durable?

MIKE HARGROVE: Everything that we heard from our scouts was that he was a durable
pitcher and we did look for him to be a big-inning guy for us and he hasn't disappointed
us in that regard.

Q. Can you just talk a little bit about the mood of the team as you go into Saturday,
looking for the sweep and wrapping up the series?

MIKE HARGROVE: The mood of the team is upbeat, obviously. But we also know, you know,
we also know that we've got -- you know, with the -- the job's not finished. Boston's not
dead in the water. They have a good ballclub. I can't emphasize that enough. You know,
they played with a lot of pride. They played well all year long. That's not going to stop
just because they're down two games to none in a five-game series. I don't think that in
knowing -- in knowing those players as well as I can, from playing, you know, from
watching them play and playing against my clubs and then knowing Jimy Williams in that
regard, they're not going to go out there and lay down and just let it happen. They're
going to fight tooth and nail. While our mood is upbeat and we feel good, we also know
that our work's not finished. And that, you know, we still got -- we still got a way to
go.

Q. Boston's won this season series five in a row. What's been the biggest difference
between your records in regular season versus post-season against the Red Sox?

MIKE HARGROVE: I don't know. I can't answer that any more than anyone else could
probably answer that. We play with intensity during the season, as do the Red Sox. It just
hasn't happened for us here during the regular season. And, you know, I -- I don't know. I
don't know. If I could come up with an answer, you and I could retire from what we're
doing, sell the theory and make a lot of money. I have no clue. I don't know.

Q. You guys obviously are up two games to none now. But before this series even
started, it seemed like you guys were down one game with Pedro pitching. Everyone -- or a
lot of people pretty much thought that the Red Sox would win. After winning that first
game, I mean, what sort of effect did that have on your team?

MIKE HARGROVE: I don't know that it had -- I don't know -- you know, curious thing. You
know you're facing Pedro, but you also know you have to beat the Red Sox. You have to get
their people out, if they don't score runs then you give yourself a chance to win and
maybe outlast a guy like Pedro where you can get him out of the game and beat somebody
else. I think that probably winning the game in the fashion we won it had as much to do
with, you know, with the mood of the ballclub than any actuality of beating Pedro
Martinez. We didn't beat Pedro Martinez, Pedro Martinez got hurt and had to leave the
game. You know, we knew going into it that it was going to be a tough road to hoe. I think
everybody, you know, stepped up and did what they had to do to keep the game in line to
allow us a chance to score enough runs to win. It worked for us. Pedro Martinez, I don't
think arguably -- he is the best pitcher in baseball today. Any time that you can go into
a game that he's starting and come out the other end of it ahead and win, whether he is
still in there when you win or not, it's a boost to your ballclub. I think the way, the
fashion in which we won the club with the, you know, with the one out base hit by Travis
Fryman in the ninth inning to score the winning run was a big boost to the club, more so
than the fact that Pedro didn't win.

Q. Given the fact that he could pitch Game 5 based on his health, how important does
that make it for them to want to finish the series here in Boston rather than have to go
back to Cleveland where you might have to face Pedro even though you're at home?

MIKE HARGROVE: I think the threat of facing Pedro in any game is enough to motivate you
to win before he's seen. So, you know, we want to -- we, again, emphasize we know that
we've got our work cut out for us. We would much rather close this thing out sooner than
later.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT