NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS vs ROCKETS
May 25, 2018
Eric Gordon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  With the situation with Chris, you get the call?  
ERIC GORDON: It's definitely tough.  Big-time playmaker.  It's definitely tough to recover that, but we're going to be ready to play.  We're going to play with full force and great sense of urgency on both sides of the ball.   
 Q.  It doesn't change the way you play, right?  
ERIC GORDON: No, not at all.  I'm going to continue to attack and take what the defense gives me.  I'm looking forward to trying to get this win tomorrow.   
 Q.  You said you're up for any challenge last night.  But how much do you embrace the fact that you maybe could even contribute more than you have been?  
ERIC GORDON: Yeah, for sure.  I'm going to look for ways to get even better than yesterday.  I would definitely like to hit a couple more threes that I had great looks on yesterday.  But we can get better as a team.  Like I said, Chris, that's a very tough loss.  But I still think we always find ways to win during the season.   
 Q.  You started 30 games this year filling in for James [Harden] or Chris.  Even though you've started throughout your career, is there a benefit to have had that many games with this group in this offense, pretty much in the role you'll be in tomorrow?  
ERIC GORDON: Yeah, whoever is out, it's almost like the next guy up and everybody finds a way.  We just collectively find a way to win.  It's definitely going to be tough.  But I still think at the end of the day, we're a tough team and we can still find ways to win.   
 Q.  That's what it's been like the last couple games, finding a way to win.  What's it been like to see this team find that way when adversity strikes?  You guys are just kind of grinding these things out?  
ERIC GORDON: Yeah, we've got to be even better defensively.  Tomorrow, defensively is where it's going to really start and finish and where we've got to be better, so it can really give us a good chance to get good shots on the offensive end.  We collectively just have to be better tomorrow.   
 Q.  Is it strange to you that this series between two high-powered offensive teams has come down to defense?  
ERIC GORDON: It's definitely going to come down to stops because both teams can score at will.  It's a game full of runs, but whoever can stop the other the most usually wins.   
 Q.  Injuries create opportunities, but you came here to be in this situation.  What's it like to be here now in this moment?  
ERIC GORDON: It definitely means a lot.  I've always wanted to be on a winning team.  Now I have that chance.  It's just been great.  Like I said, whoever is out, we've had good times where we still win.   
 Q.  One win and y'all are in The Finals.  How does that sit with you?  
ERIC GORDON: We know what's at stake.  We know what the situation is.  Golden State is not an easy team to beat, so we definitely have to be at our best.  We definitely know what the situation is.   
 Q.  On maintaining confidence:  
ERIC GORDON: You to.  In this position that we're in, to win one game and go into The Finals, that's great against a team that's one of the best ever.  We've just got to find a way to get another game.  We have two chances at it, but we have a really good chance tomorrow.   
 Q.  Last year when the Spurs came in here without a couple guys, Kawhi [Leonard] especially, they were very loose in that Game 6.  They almost rallied around it.  Is there an example from that that you saw up close on how you guys can deal with a loss like Chris?  
ERIC GORDON: All we can control is what we can control.  They're going to come in desperate tomorrow on their home floor, but so are we.  At the end of the day, we can't worry about what they do.  We've just got to figure out what we can do on the floor to win.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT