NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS vs ROCKETS
May 19, 2018
Eric Gordon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ERIC GORDON: You know, I just take what I can get, what the defense gives me.  I've always been able to be a good shooter, and you have to take it to the basket some since they kind of isolate you and kind of -- it's like man for man out there, so I try to get a good combination of attacking the rim and also shooting.
Q. What's the key for you to have the same kind of mindset in Game 3 that you had in Game 2?  What are some keys for you coming off the bench like that?
ERIC GORDON: Well, that ball was moving, and once I get it in attack mode early as far as getting the ball on the run in transition and us finding guys, because I score it in multiple ways, different ways, so as long as everybody gets to see that, including myself, it makes it easier.
Q. How much do you find that it can frustrate the opponent, as they try to come up on you, you can drop back?
ERIC GORDON: Yeah, yeah, for sure, because they have to respect my jump shot, and for us, it's like when we make a lot of threes, they have to try to make us drive, and they might do that a lot more tomorrow, so I just take what they give.
Q. The mistakes you guys talked about in Game 1, other than that, are there certain things that are priorities to defend the Warriors?
ERIC GORDON: Well, no, in Game 2, I thought that's how we should play, and we've got to try to continue that.  They're a tough team.  You're not going to stop everything.  The thing is you just have stop their runs -- both teams are going to have runs, but you've got to slow down their runs throughout the whole game.  They're a big-time scoring offensive team.
Q. Obviously very good offensive teams, but do you and them get to the next level if it's offense from defense?
ERIC GORDON: Obviously defense is from offense.  Whoever does the best in that facet usually wins.  It's all about who has the most stops because both of us can score.
Q. You have to get a game here, so it's a cliché question, but you know you have to get a game here.  What's the mindset, the thought process?
ERIC GORDON: Yeah, I think we've been a great team.  We've been great on the road, so we know that we have to win one here, and we're very capable.  We've done that during the regular season.  We definitely have to do that.
Q. What's the fun part of coming into this kind of atmosphere where it's kind of just you guys and a small group supporters in a sea of gold or whatever they have.  What's the fun part of that challenge?
ERIC GORDON: Yeah, it's all about what we do at this point.  We can't feed off the crowd.  It's going to be all about us and what we need to do throughout the whole game.  Like I said, they're going to make a lot of runs, and it's all about how we handle it throughout the game.
Q. You guys have handled your switches really well on the road.  How have you guys handled that in road environments?
ERIC GORDON: The veteran team we have, we don't ever get discouraged.  We stay to the task, and we're all about winning, we're all about doing what's right for us to win.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT