NBA AWARDS SHOW 2017
June 26, 2017
Eric Gordon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  If you could make a comment?  
ERIC GORDON: It definitely means a lot.  Looking back on my career, I had a lot of injuries the last five years and just to get a healthy season and win an award like this, accepting a new role here in Houston coming off the bench for the first time in my career, and winning this award, definitely means a lot to me.   
 Q.  We spoke at the All-Star Game, and I actually asked you if Coach [Mike] D'Antoni promised you you'd be in competition for that award and you've now won it.  How did Coach D'Antoni play a role for you accepting the six-man role?  
ERIC GORDON: Coach D'Antoni wanted me to win this award when he told me, hey, you make us a better team if you come off the bench.  And you know, of course, it's always tough to accept a role like that.  But I enjoy it.  It's definitely a new and different role, and I'm just glad that we had the year that we had and hopefully it works long-term.   
 Q.  Just talk about how much this award means to you, considering all the ups and downs that you've been through in your career.  
ERIC GORDON: Oh, this award definitely means a lot.  Definitely means I'm headed in the right direction.  It means I've made -- I was a major and big difference coming into the game.   
As long as it makes our team better, then I'm all good for it.   
 Q.  You got two big trophies in this season, and as three-point champion of All-Star Weekend and now Sixth Man of the year, so how are those two trophies going to help you boost your confidence for the next season?  
ERIC GORDON: Yeah, I'm definitely excited for next season.  But it's been a special year.  Winning the three-point was something special and definitely wanted to win something like this as a kid.  And winning Sixth Man, I wanted to be a big-time play maker coming into the game.  I'm just honored to win an award like this.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT