WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2014
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Opening comments about your round today.  
CARL PETTERSSON:   I played nice.   The golf course played great.   Solid round for me.   Pretty low stress.   Four birdies, one bogey and conditions were great.   
It was cool this morning and warmed up nice.   Greens were firm so you got to hit the fairways and the golf course is playing great.  
   
 Q.   How are you feeling about putting another one of these on the board?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, that would be great.   I got to get my putter going a little bit but I'm hitting it nice and you know, shooting 3-under today was a great start.   So I got to keep going.  
   
 Q.   Relevant after the first day, does that change your approach at all going into Friday or not really?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   No, not really.   Just the first day.   It's nice to shoot a good one today.   This tournament you got to go fairly low.   You got to go as low as you can everyday.   It's not playing easy out there but the conditions are great.   Play really well to shoot under par.  
   
 Q.   Seen some incredibly low scores within this thing even when they changed the grass a few years ago.   Early indications for what the winning score might be on Sunday or are we looking at 18, 19, 20 or maybe not?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Probably 15, I'd say.   It's probably going to firm up on the weekend so probably play hard on the weekend and, as long as we don't get any wind, I think around 15-under will do it.  
   
 Q.   What is it about this golf course that --  
CARL PETTERSSON:   I tend to play well here.   I like it.   Just fits my eye.   I like the tee shots -- I know the golf course well and I kind of know where to place it and so I get a good feeling every time I come her and kind of helps me out.  
   
 Q.   Are there other golf courses on Tour that you feel that way?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   No, not like this one.   I simply play my best golf here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT