THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 13, 2004
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOE CHEMYCZ:  Carl Pettersson, welcome.  I know it was a difficult day for you, 4 over par 76.  Just talk a little bit about your round and how you played.
CARL PETTERSSON:   I played pretty good.  It was just one hole, really, that ruined the whole round, that 5 putt.  That's about all, really.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Talk about what happened on 16 there.
CARL PETTERSSON:   I had a good 3 wood.  I hit an 8 iron just on the green.  Just had a mental block and hit the first putt about 15 feet behind, and hit the next one four feet behind, then missed, a couple of misses, and before you know it, it's a 7.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Was it a question of nerves or misreads?
CARL PETTERSSON:   I don't know, just lack of concentration.  I should have taken a longer time over the third putt, I think.  As soon as I missed that, just stuff racing through your mind, really.
Q.  At least it happened on Saturday when you have a chance to recover; you were up four and now you're down four, can you talk about how quickly the lead can change?
CARL PETTERSSON:   I've still got a chance.  This is a difficult golf course.  If the wind blows tomorrow, if I shoot 4 under tomorrow, I think I've got a real good chance.  Not totally out of it, but obviously I would have liked to have been at 13 , 14 under.  Still got a chance.  I'll just go out there tomorrow and see if I can repair what happened today.
Q.  Is what happened to you on 16 what can happen on this course at any given time?
CARL PETTERSSON:   I think so, yeah.  There's always a big number out there.  16 was a bit unusual, really.  Any time you miss one of these greens, you can chip up and it can come back to you a couple of times.  You can chip over greens.  It's very difficult.
Q.  Talk about the front nine briefly.  You guys were both putting birdies up and you guys both ran away from the field for quite a while.
CARL PETTERSSON:   I got off to a good start on the front nine.  I managed to birdie the third hole and the fifth, which was nice.  I felt really good at that stage.  I think I bogeyed No.  6, the par  5.  I had a bad tee shot left and was behind some trees.  It wasn't too bad of a bogey, so I wasn't worried about it.  I came back and made a nice birdie on 9, which got me back going again.

I felt like on the back nine, I played fairly well.  If I could take away that 5 putt, make that a 2 putt and it's not a bad score.  I bogeyed 17, too, which I put myself in a bad spot and tried to hit a good flop.  Just messed it up, really.
Q.  There haven't been too many guys that birdied 3 and 9 on the same day.
CARL PETTERSSON:   No.  Exactly.  All of the holes out here are difficult.  And if you can put yourself in a good place you can make birdie, but you can also make a big number if you miss on the wrong side.
Q.  What are you more upset about the 3 putt, or didn't you also have three bogeys on par 5s?
CARL PETTERSSON:   The 5 putt.  You should 3 putt, max.  Like I said, at least I have a chance tomorrow if I play well.  I'll just try to forget about it.
Q.  Have you ever had a situation,not leading, but where something just went wrong on the course and how have you been able to deal with it and come back the next day?
CARL PETTERSSON:   Well, I've never had the lead.  I don't know, I'm just going to try to forget about it and play good tomorrow, really.  That's the only thing.
Q.  Was 17 a by product of 16?
CARL PETTERSSON:   I don't think so.  I took a couple of deep breaths and told myself to forget about it.  I hit an average drive, not bad; a great 3 wood and just missed it about four yards right.  I was in a terrible spot.  But I was happy to hit solid shots up 18 and I finished good.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Carl, thank you, we appreciate you coming in.  Play well tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT