BUICK INVITATIONAL
February 16, 2003
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOHN BUSH:  Do you feel this is a good turnaround for you?
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, I was disappointed.  I flew all the way out to Hawaii; and my caddie is from England, he flew from the mainland.  Usually when you are first alternate you get in, but we didn't get in.  But I used the good weather to practice and try out some new equipment.  All in all, it wasn't a bad week. 
JOHN BUSH:  And obviously a great week here, 12-under par, you feel like you're going to finish at least in the top or second place.  Just your thoughts on the entire week. 
CARL PETTERSSON:   It's been good.  Obviously it was a bit of a struggle early in the week with the weather, and I've played in Europe the last couple of years.  We get that at least seven, eight times a year, so I'm used to it, but the weather was fantastic. 
JOHN BUSH:  Can you take us through your round, and then we'll open it up for questions, starting with the bogey on 2.
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, I think I had only 110 yards to the pin and hit a wedge and just pulled it long of the green.  Had an uphill lie and chipped it up and 2-putted. 
6 was a driver, 3-wood just short of the green.  I made a good flop shot to about six or seven feet. 
No. 7, I had a good drive again, middle of the fairway, 147 to the pin and I had a good 9-iron about 12, 15 feet and made the putt. 
11, I had 231 to the pin.  I hit a good 3-iron to about five feet and made the putt. 
On the last hole, I laid up with a 5-iron and then hit a pitching wedge in there to about 16 meters. 

Q.  Are we going to see more and more young European players like yourself playing on this tournament every year? 
CARL PETTERSSON:   On this tour or this tournament?  I think you'll see a lot more European players coming over to try and play on the PGA TOUR.  I'm not sure, a few might come over and play this course.  I think already a lot of good young European players right now, Justin Rose, Paul Casey, that they may come to America and play a little bit. 

Q.  Inaudible?
CARL PETTERSSON:   Oh, it feels great.  I'm still exempt in Europe till 2004 and last week was only my first tournament.  I was watching Ernie Els winning all of those tournament and was looking forward to playing and playing last week, but just had an off week and I played myself  --

Q.  Inaudible?
CARL PETTERSSON:  -- Raleigh, North Carolina.  And I was looking forward to this week to improve, and I played well. 

Q.  What part of your game did you like the most?
CARL PETTERSSON:   I putted real good this week.  I hit it pretty good off the tee, also hit some bad ones, but I chipped and putted really well this week.  Any time you finish well in the tournament, you also chip and putt well. 

Q.  You're new on TOUR?
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, this is my first year.  I'm Swedish. 

Q.  What do you think so far?
CARL PETTERSSON:   It's good.  It's a lot different from the European Tour.  It's a lot more professional, I think, the way things are run.  Also the European Tour I think is a lot more friendly tour.  But I've met some friends out here that I went to college with, and there's three other Swedish guys out here. 
I've only played two tournaments, too, so I can't tell you too much about it.  So far, I like it over here, but I also enjoy playing over in Europe. 

Q.  Seeing a player like Woods in the lead, is it almost insurmountable you're going to reach that level in a tournament? 
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, I didn't look at one scoreboard today until I hit my third shot on 18 and I asked my caddie what place we were in, and he told me second, so I knew the putt on the last was pretty big. 
I was just concentrating on my own game today.  I knew Tiger was going to play well, and I just played my own game.  I figured that  -- to shoot under par was my goal today.

Q.  Are you surprised you're in second place?
CARL PETTERSSON:   No.  The course is playing pretty difficult.  I heard some roars early on from the group behind me but then they got quieted down a little bit.  I was pleasantly surprised. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT