WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2014
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MARK STEVENS:   Carl, we're celebrating 75 years here at the Wyndham Championship.   You have a unique perspective.   You went to high school in the Greensboro area and came back here and won in '08.   Kind of talk about what this tournament means to this community and to yourself, and then we'll have a few questions. 
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, I obviously think the PGA TOUR has been associated with Greensboro for 75 years.   I think moving it here to Sedgefield in '08 has given the tournament a boost and it's nice that it stayed in the area and tradition keeps on going.   It's a fabulous event now with Wyndham and the course here at Sedgefield.

Q.   When you were a kid here, did you come out to the tournament and do you remember anything about it? 
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, I did.   I actually, yeah, I came out to the tournament every year when I lived here.   I think one year I actually skipped school on Friday and came out.   But it was over at Forest Oaks and a different time of year, but it was something I always looked forward to doing.

Q.   Did you get a chance to play essential field very much when you were in high school? 
CARL PETTERSSON:   No, I actually never played it once.   My parents were members at star mount so I played there most of the time.   We played our high school matches at Bryant Park and played a few other golf courses around, but for some reason I never came over here and played.

Q.   When you came out here, was there anybody you watched or do you remember who won? 
CARL PETTERSSON:   No, I can't remember who won, but I enjoyed walking around and watching all the pros.   It would have been '94 or '95.   But I can't remember who won though.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
CARL PETTERSSON:   No, I just admired all the guys.

Q.   I guess you played here a couple weeks ago or last week some time and were raving about it.   Is it going to change that much with the rain, or do you think it's in good shape? 
CARL PETTERSSON:   I hope not.   I played last week and it was awesome.   It was probably the best conditioned course we've seen here and maybe all year.   It was perfect.   Hopefully, this rain‑‑ it should dry up.   It might be a little wet today, but if we don't get any more rain today and the rest of the week, it should be great.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
CARL PETTERSSON:   Well, it's changed slightly.   When they changed the greens from Bent to Bermuda, but it's still a scorable golf course if you're playing well.   If you're not playing well, it's difficult because the rough is thick, the ball really sits down in the Bermudagrass, so that part of it is difficult, and if you don't hit the greens, it's difficult to get it up‑and‑down.   But definitely if you're on your game, you feel like you can shoot a fairly low round here for sure.

Q.   When you're back in town and you have downtime away from the course, do you have places you like to go, restaurants or landmarks from your childhood? 
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, a little bit, but I only stay up here two nights this week.   I drive back and forth from Raleigh, so I'm actually going home tonight and I'll come back and I might stay tomorrow night.   So a little bit, yeah, yeah.   I used to go by my parents' old house, maybe take‑‑ my kids are coming up early in the week so I might take them by the high school and stuff like that.

Q.   What's that like when you go by? 
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, it brings back memories from childhood days and stuff like that.   It's exciting.   My kids are probably bored to death, but it's good for me. 

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
CARL PETTERSSON:   Starmount Forest.

Q.   What street? 
CARL PETTERSSON:   Waycross Drive.

Q.   How's your game today and what is your plan for this tournament? 
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, I always feel good coming here.   I feel comfortable on this golf course.   My game's been decent this year.   Not great, not terrible, but it definitely hasn't been one of my best years so far.   But for some reason this place tends to get me going, and hopefully I can play well this week.

Q.   Still using the long putter?   Is there a process of getting it? 
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, I actually played four events last year with the short putter and putted fairly decent.   I used a claw grip, which when I was having my issues wasn't even invented back in the late '90s.   So I played four events with that last year, but then I thought well, I've still got another two years left with anchoring, so I just went back to the anchoring.   But definitely probably some point next year I'll switch.

Q.   Just a handful of (Indiscernible) have won this event multiple times with this being a "home game" for you so to speak.   What would it mean for you to be a multiple champion of this tournament? 
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, it would be very special.   I think my win in '08 was a special win having a win where you grew up, so it was also great for myself and my family.   To win it twice would be really good, so I look forward to maybe doing that.

Q.   Have you talked to Tim Clark more about the belly putter?   He's the same way.   Have you guys discussed it a little bit? 
CARL PETTERSSON:   No, not too much.   It was ramped up there a year and a half ago, and now we don't really talk about it.   A little bit here and there, but not so much. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT