FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 7, 2014
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   It's been along couple of days.
    CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, it has but I'm happy.   I'm playing good.   Wasn't too bad.   I had to finish this morning just putting on 18 but, yeah, this weather stuff haven't been fun but when you're playing well it makes it a little easier anyway.

Q.   Are the greens as good as everybody says they are this week?
    CARL PETTERSSON:   They're pure, great greens.   Fast, not too soft.   The ball is rolling great on them.   You get on a good run putting you believe you can roll the tables.   The golf course is still pretty hard, I think.

Q.   You hit two shots here this morning on Saturday.   What are you going to do for the rest of the day?
    CARL PETTERSSON:   Maybe take a nap.   I've got the kids here.   Do something with them.   Just rest up and warm up and hopefully we won't have any weather issues this afternoon but, you never know.

Q.   I know you were upset you couldn't finish yesterday, to get up and just finish out your last two putts, how tough is that for you?
    CARL PETTERSSON:   It wasn't too bad.   I didn't have to warm up.   I just had to putt.   I hit 30 minutes of putts on the putting green.   I had a 46 footer downhill and I two-putted.

Q.   You left here yesterday knowing that you were at 6-under, maybe an opportunity to get closer.   Now as you're done with two rounds, you're positioning as you get ready knowing that Ben has got a 6 shot lead but there's still 36 holes hopefully to go.
    CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah.   I think we'll stay here until we get 72 holes in.   I know tournaments have ended up on Tuesdays before but hopefully we can get a break with the weather today and get a bunch of golf in. 
    Yeah, obviously Ben has played great.   He's 12-under, is he, and so -- but the guys haven't even played their second rounds.   Somebody could go out and shoot lights out today.   I'm just happy with my game and it's been fun two days.

Q.   Speak about that.   What do you like about your game as you set-up for the final two rounds here?
    CARL PETTERSSON:   I played real solid.   I've driven the ball well, hit eye irons well and putted decent.   Nothing out of the -- nothing spectacular.   The game feels well.

Q.   Have you ever dealt with something like that where you came out just to putt?   I know there's delays.   How does this one rank up there?
    CARL PETTERSSON:   We've done this before.   In the summertime we have this every weekend.   It's not that big of a deal.

Q.   What time did you get the alarm set this morning?
    CARL PETTERSSON:   4:45.

Q.   The old fashioned clock radio or phone?
    CARL PETTERSSON:   Phone and wake up call.

Q.   Do you expect more, do you expect somebody going low and be a few more guys in between you and Ben?
    CARL PETTERSSON:   I'm sure.   The golf course is probably pretty soft right now.   If they don't get any wind, the scoring will be good.

Q.   When was last time you opened a day of golf with a putter in your hand?
    CARL PETTERSSON:   I don't know.   I've done it before but I can't remember.

Q.   Is it nap time now?
    CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, I think so.   Breakfast, nap, hang out with the kids.   See what's going on.

Q.   Kids are here?
    CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah.

Q.   You just wait to find out 3, 3:15 when you go off again?
    CARL PETTERSSON:   3 to 5 third round will go off.   Hopefully we won't get any afternoon storms and play.

Q.   How do you deal with your preparation now not knowing exactly when to start to amp up for your 3rd round?
    CARL PETTERSSON:   I kind of know I'll be teeing up about 4:30-ish so I'll plan on that.   I'll get out here 2:30, 2:00. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT