WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2013
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARK STEVENS:   Okay. I'd like to welcome Carl Pettersson.   Carl, you just finished your Pro-Am round.   You want to talk about the course conditions and kind of your thoughts coming into this week relative to The Playoffs coming up?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah.   I just had a great time playing the Pro-Am.   The course is in fabulous condition, probably the best it's been since we've been here at Sedgefield and the weather was cool and hopefully the rain will stay away and we'll have a fabulous week again.  
MARK STEVENS:   Just some thoughts coming into this weekend as you prepare for the FedExCup Playoffs, also.  
CARL PETTERSSON:   My game hasn't been very good this year.   I always look forward to playing here in Greensboro.   It's a tournament I've had success at in the past.   It's one of my favorite weeks.   I look forward to coming back here and playing well.  
MARK STEVENS:   Thank you.   Questions.  
   
 Q.   Going on that, anytime there's a local guy whether it's Wake Forest, Webb, or you from Grimsley, NCA State, does it help to be from here or does it -- I mean you're familiar with it but does it help that the crowds are rooting for you and everybody is watching you?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, I think so.   It's always nice to have support and it's nice to play close to home.   I grew up here in Greensboro, I live in Raleigh, not far away and so it's also special, especially in golf we don't get many home games so I try to take advantage of that and it's always nice to get a lot of support here in Greensboro.  
   
 Q.   Carl, you talked about it being cool outside.   Can you talk about the effect that the weather has as far as it being hot, humid and the rain and all that or whatever and how that has an effect on -- how comfortable you are out there on the course?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah.   It's definitely nice when it's in the mid-70s instead of the mid-90s.   The golf course does play a little bit different.   The fairways are wet.   There's no roll on the ball when it hits the fairway.   The course is a bit longer and the greens are perfect, very quick.   There will be some low scores but not as low as in years past.  
   
 Q.   Growing up in Greensboro, how aware were you of the long history this tournament has?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah.   I used to come out here when I was in high school and watch it but it was at Forest Oaks back then and I didn't know so much back then, the traditions of this tournament but since I've been on Tour, I got to know it's one of the oldest tournaments on the PGA TOUR and it's just -- Wyndham has really stepped up and made it a premiere event and seems like Wyndham is making it better and better every year.  
   
 Q.   When you see the listed winners that include Hogan and Snead and Nelson, does it add a certain cache to it?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   It's always nice to have a lot of history behind the tournaments and this tournament has a lot of that.   I think that's special to play and win one of those events.  
   
 Q.   Webb was in here a minute ago talking about Greensboro being a small town feel when -- as compared to some of the big city tournaments.   Do you get that sense and what does it feel like to play at Greensboro?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Little bit feels like home to me, playing here in North Carolina but it does have a friendly, small town atmosphere to the tournament which is nice, I think.   I always enjoy playing here so I can speak for what I think but it's great.  
   
 Q.   Carl, what does it mean to kind of jump start the FedExCup Playoffs when you guys play in this tournament and do well?   Do guys realize what it can do to get you in The Playoffs?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   I think so.   Maybe not the first few years we had this date but I mean a great week, a win here can really get you right up there in the FedEx and get some momentum for The Playoffs and this is an important stretch for us playing on the PGA TOUR, which this is the last regular season event and then The Playoffs.   Everybody is trying improve their position on the FedExCup standings and it's a big week.  
   
 Q.   Carl, the long putter, have you been dabbling with a shorter putter?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   I have.   Actually I used the shorter putter at the British Open this year and a few rounds here and there and it went surprisingly well but I'm back to my long and I just wanted to test it really for the ban coming up in a couple years.   I'm more comfortable with long putters but my testing went well.  
   
 Q.   How much a game changer is that for you?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   I thought it was going to be more.   I putted fine at The Open for four days and at the John Deere and Akron for a couple days and it wasn't that big of a change for me but since I've been using a long putter for 16 years I want to give it another couple years (laughter).  
   
 Q.   You see the field getting larger and larger and better every year.   It's not the same as when you started to play here.   
Does that affect -- obviously makes it a little bit tougher but the big names and everything, obviously bigger crowds.  
CARL PETTERSSON:   I think it's only good, it's good for Greensboro, good for the Greensboro area.   It's good for Wyndham, good for everybody.   It's a win-win for everybody here for the tournament to grow and get better players and grow the strength of the field and I think it's just a win-win for everybody.  
MARK STEVENS:   Got a couple other things real quick.   As many of you might know, the PGA Tours Wives Association, they're celebrating their 25th anniversary this year.   
At the beginning of the season they printed a book that talks about -- there's over 100 players in here that kind of talk about their life on TOUR and things and there's a cookbook at the back of it.   
Carl and his wife, DeAnna were so gracious as to make their stuffed mushroom recipe today for the members of the --  
             CARL PETTERSSON:   More DeAnna.  
MARK STEVENS:   She went above and beyond and cooked some cakes and pies and stuff that are back in the dining area.   After you finish here, they would both like you to go back and take a sample of all that.   
Carl, if you would just kind of talk about what the Tour Wives do on Tour, what they mean to not only the Tour and the local communities but helping you out as players.  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah.   The PGA TOUR Wives Association has been around for 25 years and they do a lot for charity, local charities at each event we go and give a lot back to the local communities at each tournament we play and I think they've raised a lot of money.   DeAnna, how much?   5 million.   It's all for a good cause and they're hoping to raise a lot of money for the new book and it's a great book.   I know the Tour Wives worked hard on the book and it's turned out well.  
MARK STEVENS:   The stuffed mushrooms, is that your recipe?   Does it go back, old family recipe?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   More from DeAnna's side.   I do enjoy eating.   There's a reason I look like this.   
MARK STEVENS:   We have a special presentation from Wyndham, Mary Falvey, come up.   We're going to do a quick check presentation.   
Mary, if you want to talk a little bit about this.   
MS. MARY FALVEY:   Sure.   Wyndham Worldwide has a foundation which is for Wyndham and we're very proud to support the PGA TOUR Wives.   Over the past several years I've had the pleasure of going over to some of the local hospitals and donating fund centers with some sick children and we're really excited this year to present this check.   
MS. DEANNA PETTERSSON:   Thank you so much.   
On behalf of the Tour Wives Association, I'd just like to say thank you to Mary and to Wyndham for all that you're doing with this tournament and for your support of the Tour Wives Association and our continued efforts to give back to charities supporting families and children throughout the country.   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT