RBC HERITAGE
April 17, 2013
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DOUG MILNE:   We'd like to welcome Carl Pettersson to the interview room at the RBC Heritage.     
You are about to embark on the defense of your RBC Heritage title.   A couple of comments about being back in Harbour Town and defending your title this week.  
CARL PETTERSSON:   It's always nice to come back here, it's extra special being the defending champion.   But an event I always look forward to playing every year.   It's nice to be back.   
   
 Q.   It's a tough finish for you last week.  
CARL PETTERSSON:   I just didn't play very good.   Obviously‑‑ I played decent the first two days, and on the weekend I didn't play very good at all.   But I forgot all about that.   That's golf.   And it happens.   It was fun being there.   I wish I would have competed a bit better, but it's just one of those things.  
   
 Q.   Is that an indication that your game is off at the moment or do you think it just had to do with the events of the week?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   No, my game feels okay.   I've played okay this year.   I haven't played great.   But I've played decent.   I'm hitting the ball pretty good, I just haven't scored that great this year.   But it hasn't been my worst start of the year or my best, but it's been okay.  
   
 Q.   Was there some momentum you had hoped to carry over from this win and have you been able to build on this at all or just kind of in limbo a bit?   How did everything progress after this week last year?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Oh, last year?   
   
 Q.   Last year and into this year, both.   
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, last year was obviously my best year on Tour.   And winning this tournament had a huge impact on that.   And it kind of spurred my year on.   Well, I finished second twice before I won here.   But getting the win here really kick started my year, and gave me a lot of confidence for the rest of the year.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel you were primed to have a really good year this year?   And has something kept you from maybe continuing that momentum?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, you hope every year is going to be one of your best years.   But I hadn't really thought too much about that.   I try to improve every year.   It hasn't been a bad year so far.   It's been okay.   I just haven't had the top finishes I had last year, but hopefully that will turn around this week.  
   
 Q.   Any Presidents Cup aspirations?   Are you on the United States side?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   No, I'm not eligible for that.   I played for Europe for the Ryder Cup.   If they'd let me play, I'll play.   
   
 Q.   You would have to play for Europe is what I was trying to find out.   
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Just curious, everyone talks when they come down here, is the sense even more so, every year to get away from the Augusta‑‑  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, every Major is more intense than a regular event.   It's a nice feeling coming down here.   It's relaxed.   It's got a great feel about it.   I think the tournament is only getting better and better with RBC and Boeing.   It seems like they've stepped up everything a little bit.  
   
 Q.   Just curious, the pressure on Majors, is that a media thing or are the players putting the pressure on themselves?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   A little bit of both.   The media hypes it up.   But the players, it's such a huge thing, if you can play well at a Major and win one, it's really a defining point to your career.  
Yeah, it was a great Masters last week, and I thought Adam Scott was a well-deserved winner.  
   
 Q.   Did you watch the end of it, the playoff?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah.   Unfortunately I played early enough on Sunday, I was able to drive here and watch the last hour.   But it was exciting, for sure.  
DOUG MILNE:   We always appreciate your time.   Best of luck this weekend.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT