WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 21, 2015
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Carl, just talk about the round today and what's been going well for you.  
CARL PETTERSSON: Yeah. I wasn't as good as yesterday from tee the green. My short game kept me in there. Didn't make any bogies. I got it up and down. Got a little loose toward the end. Yesterday I hit it pretty good tee to green.   
Last few holes I got a little loose today. It was a long day and I managed to keep it together and in good shape for the weekend. So, look forward to the next two days.  
   
 Q. Obviously you have a lot of ties to this area. Every player I've heard coming through here is just raving about the greens. What do you have to say about them?  
CARL PETTERSSON: The greens are great. We played late and it's been 156 guys on it. They're still perfect. The golf course really dried up, too. The fairways are dry today. Yesterday they were wet. So, it's a great golf course and a tournament I enjoy playing.  
   
 Q. The leaderboard is shaping up pretty exciting with Davis, yourself, Tiger up there again. Should be an exciting weekend, right?  
CARL PETTERSSON: Yeah. It's usually low scoring here so you got to keep going and, you know, 20-under is the goal. I'm nearly halfway there. Just got to keep making birdies and, you know, what Wyndham and Mark Brazil and his team has done here, to have turned this into a great first class event.  
   
 Q. Do you get a different feeling when you get here?  
CARL PETTERSSON: Yeah, I kind of do. I wish I got it more often at other places. I just feel comfortable on the golf course and it's fun to play and I've had some success here and I think that helps and yeah, I just enjoy being here. I think that -- you know, it equals a great scoring.  
   
 Q. As the day went on were you aware of what Tiger was doing, I mean you played on --  
 CARL PETTERSSON: Little bit. Not so much. I heard a few roars. It's nice. Fun to hear that. Kept an eye on a few leaderboards. Really the first two days you're just playing and putting yourself into position. It's definitely a lot better atmosphere than other years.  
   
 Q. It's like on steroids.  
CARL PETTERSSON: Little quite on our side.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT