PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2012
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you talk us through what happened at the first?   
CARL PETTERSSON:   I wasn't thinking about the leaves, but going back to Brian Davis, the more I thought about it, it was a similar ruling he had.   I knew I could touch the grass.   I just didn't think about the leaves.   I didn't think twice about it when I hit the shot.   Rules official came to me and just one of those, you know, one of those bad rules in golf.   Because I didn't rest the club down.   If you're in a hazard, you can actually touch the grass.   You just can't put any weight on it.  
But it made me more motivated.   I got a little fired up and made some birdies in a row there.   I came back.   There was only one winner today, really.   Rory played great.   I played good enough on the front nine, though.   Who knows what would have happened; but Rory played great.   
Yeah, sucks for me, I would have finished second on my own.   
   
 Q.   You've been playing so well this week‑‑  
CARL PETTERSSON:   I've played pretty good all year, really.   But scrambling, I got it up‑and‑down.   I drove the ball well.   Chipped and putted well, and today, I hit my irons really good.   I played really solid today.   You know, a 2‑under par round with a two‑shot penalty is even.   It played tough.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, I've got to take it on the chin, obviously, but it's one of those stupid rules, like Webb Simpson had where the ball moves a couple of‑‑ half a millimeter and it's a penalty.   I'm sure Brian Davis doesn't like the rule.   
I didn't even realize I moved it, because I'm looking‑‑ I'm trying to hit the ball.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
CARL PETTERSSON:   I knew there was some leaves there, looking back at it.   
   
 Q.   Was it a wedge?   
CARL PETTERSSON:   Lob‑wedge, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Would it be more fair on your backswing‑‑ (Inaudible.)  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Well, I guess the rule is there so you don't knock anything out of the way on the back to make you be able to hit it.   It's an unfortunate‑‑ it's just one of those unfortunate things.   I wish it was different, but it's just‑‑ it's what it is.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Poulter was under par early on.   But we didn't know the outcome of that ruling until the 4th tee box.   So I don't think he was paying too much attention to it.   I kind of had to block it out myself.   
   
 Q.   What was it like playing 1,2,3, not knowing what your score was?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   It was kind of weird.   Yeah, I didn't know if I was 2‑over or 1‑over or even.   I came back with three birdies in a row there which was nice.   I kind of made those birdies because I was pissed off in a good way.   
I asked him 14 times if they were 100 percent‑‑ just now, and they said they were 100 percent.   
   
 Q.   They said you were calling in to appeal‑‑  
CARL PETTERSSON:   I think I'm just going to take it on the chin, I guess.   They wouldn't lie.   I mean, they said they looked at it a million times.   
   
 Q.   Did they say what happened with the camera angle?   
CARL PETTERSSON:   They just said it was pretty evident that I touched it on the way back.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Obviously broke a rule there.   I didn't realize it myself.   I don't think it affected the outcome of the shot.   But just one of those things.   We have a lot of stupid rules in golf.   
   
 Q.   What kind of swing are you supposed to take?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Well, I guess I should have picked it up more upright.   
   
 Q.   What was the yardage?   
CARL PETTERSSON:   97 yards.   
   
 Q.   Obviously seeing Rory there today, as you said, there was only one winner; pretty solid.   
CARL PETTERSSON:   Phenomenal.   I mean, he drives it long, straight, hits his irons great and he chipped and putted awesome today.   He made every clutch putt, par putt out there.   You know, he was just better than everybody, and it was clear just‑‑ it was clear to everybody I think.   
   
 Q.   Does it make it a little easier to handle what happened?   
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, if I would have lost by one or two, it would have been tough.   But still, I mean, I broke the rule, so we play under the Rules of Golf.   It is what it is.   
Sure, it sucks, but what can you do.   
   
 Q.   How did it feel to be in that position for the first time?   
CARL PETTERSSON:   That's the penalty.   I shot 4‑under on the front.   So I felt like‑‑ I didn't feel weird or nervous.   I felt under control.   It was fine.   
   
 Q.   Two‑shot penalty instead of a one‑shot penalty?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, I don't know where they get the two‑shot penalty (chuckling).   I thought one would have been enough.   
Yeah, it's just the way this thing is.   Anyway, I've got to look at the positives.   I had a great week.   I had a chance to win.   Just didn't do it.   And we'll give it a shot next year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT