SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 1, 2012
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  April 1, 2012  
               
An Interview with:  
  
Carl Pettersson  
   
 Q.   Crazy sun.   You got off to a great start.   Had a couple of par saves that you really needed, and then the putts just wouldn't fall after you gave yourself a lot of chances.  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah.   I played good.   I played really good today.   Very difficult.   I couldn't make a putt on the back-9.   I gave myself good chances coming in.   Just a little pissed off I left it short on 18.   I had a good chance coming in, couldn't get anything to go.  
   
 Q.   You gave yourself a ton of chances.   Did the course change much as the round went on?   Did it get a little firmer and faster?   The drive at 17 actually bounced.   I saw the shot bounce.  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, that was a long drive.   It did firm up a little bit.   Seems like the wind was moving around a little bit which made it quite windy.   I don't know how the scoring was today.  
   
 Q.   Wasn't very good.  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Hunter played great to win.   I wish I could have been in a playoff.  
   
 Q.   Again, second 2nd of the year.   Now, he what that means in one way, but in another way means you're playing really well.  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah.   Exactly.   I'm a little disappointed right now.   Overall my game was good.   Hopefully I can build on this and probably get a win soon.  
   
 Q.   Keep up the good work.   Thanks so much for your time.  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   18 the putt was tracking.  
CARL PETTERSSON:   I decelerated on it.   I hit two great shots.   Good tee shot and good second shot.   I thought it was a quicker putt, but I decelerated a little bit on it.   It was right in the middle, but you know, 18 is a difficult hole.   Still in the back of my mind, I didn't know what Hunter was going to do.   I should have given it a better run than I did.  
   
 Q.   I guess it's one of those that you see at night when you're trying to go to sleep and stuff, that putt?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah.   I wish I could have given it a better shot.   What can you do.  
   
 Q.   16 was another one.  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Hit a great shot in there.   Hit the putt exactly where I wanted.   Didn't break down the hill as much as I thought.   But I played good down the stretch.   Couldn't quite make the putts, but it was fun playing with him.  
   
  
  
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT