SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 15, 2012
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I don't know if that's enough to get you into the winner's circle but you'll certainly give everyone something to think about?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   I played great on the back nine.   I started off with a double‑bogey on 2, and then made another bogey on 6 and it wasn't looking very good.   And then I played great from there on in.   
Yeah, I finished strong, I had a good chance on 17, just missed it.   See what happens.   I'm happy.   
   
 Q.   We have the stats, you hitting five fairways and 14 greens, 26 putts?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   It's so hard to hit fairways.   I drove the ball pretty good but a lot of the fairways, you run out or it's just tough.   It's a great golf course.   I love playing here.   I wish we played more like this one.  
   
 Q.   We have been saying it's not hard to hit fairways out here; it's hard to hold the fairways and a lot of balls hit the fairway and just run out?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Exactly like 18, you have to hit a super hook into the left‑to‑right wind.   Once you hit the fairway, it's tough to keep it on the fairway.   So, exactly, it's a good test.   
   
 Q.   Tell me what the groups are going to face coming in, any particular hole locations or birdie opportunities?   
CARL PETTERSSON:   Well, you know, the finishing holes are playing tricky.   16 is straight into the wind.   17 is a very difficult pin placement and obviously 18, it's a birdie hole, but it's tricky with a down, left‑to‑right wind.   So we'll see what happens.   
   
 Q.   When you got out here, what did you think it would take?   Did you have any number in mind?   
CARL PETTERSSON:   Well, before I saw the wind, I thought 14, 15.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the conditions a little.   
CARL PETTERSSON:   You wouldn't think it's playing that tough, but a lot of the easier holes are playing very difficult.   So that makes it hard.   
And it's just hard to play from the rough.   You can't get close to the pin.   So it's very difficult to hit the fairways and I got off to such a poor start, doubling the second hole, you know, I wasn't really in it until the end there.   I made a nice finish.   
So you know, I'm happy with the way I finished and hopefully I would love to be in a playoff.   But it's out of my hands now.   
   
 Q.   Did you ever look up to see that they have come back to you; that the leaders have come back?   I know like you said with a double early, you probably thought, I'm out of this thing and I have no chance.   Did you ever look at a leaderboard or know that you had a chance?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   I left a birdie putt short dead in the heart on 15 and I thought that was kind of it.   
Then I birdied 16 and told my caddie, let's see if we can finish strong and see what happens.   I'm happy either way; first week of the year and I'm playing good.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT