SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 13, 2012
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   3‑under 67 today, 8‑under for the tournament.   I watched you play most of that round today.   It was really solid, just didn't have too many putts fall for you. 
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, I started on the back nine.   I played really solid on the back nine.   Could have made a few more, missed a couple of short ones.   Then I made a few longish putts for birdies on 4 and 5 and a nice save on 8.   Yeah, it was a solid round.   I didn't do anything spectacular, but I played nice, so it was good.

Q.   Tell me about that tough 9th hole finish. 
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, I couldn't believe I had a sand iron in for my second on a par‑5.   It felt weird.   But I'll take that any day.   It was nice.   It was a nice way to finish.

Q.   When you were over the putt my producer was telling us this hole was playing under 4.   It's got to be the first time ever in the history of the PGA TOUR that a par‑5 is playing to a stroke average in the 3s. 
CARL PETTERSSON:   Well, with the Kona wind it's playing completely different.   It's actually a great par‑5 when it's into the wind.   But it puts a lot of pressure on the tee shot because you know if you hit the fairway you're going to make at least 4.

Q.   We don't play this wind very much, and this 9th hole is a perfect example of this one will really make you pucker up when it's back into the breeze.   It's a tight tee ball. 
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, every tee ball here is tight.   You know, when it's blowing this wind, 9 plays very easy but 1 plays difficult, so 1 is a par‑4 that plays into the wind.   It really doesn't matter that much.   But yeah, the holes are playing differently with this Kona wind.   Some of the shorter holes that are normally easy are very difficult, and vice versa. 

Q.   Just your thoughts on the weekend, just got Every out there at 10‑under, but you're right there. 
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, I'm playing nice.   I worked hard this off‑season, and it's nice to see it show up first week of the year.   It's just fun playing when you're playing solid.   I look forward to playing.   This is one of my favorite golf courses on TOUR, so I look forward to the weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT