SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 12, 2012
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOHN BUSH:   Carl Pettersson joins us after a 5‑under par 65, currently tied for second.   Nice start to the tournament and to the year.   Comment on your round. 
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, I played good.   I played really good all day.   I birdied the first hole, which is always a surprise, especially being the first hole of the year.   I hit the ball real good today and gave myself plenty of chances early on, made a few putts and you know, I hit my irons really good which I haven't done for a long time. 
JOHN BUSH:   Starting the season, talk about your expectations for the year.
CARL PETTERSSON:   Well, yeah, I've got high expectations every year and I feel like I haven't played to my full potential over the last two or three years.   You know, I want to win and win multiple times and play the golf that I know I can play.   And I'm trying to put less stress on myself and go out on the golf course and play like I do at home, play relaxed and whatever happens, happens.   I did a great job of doing that today.   Playing like you don't care, almost; care‑free golf. 

Q.   Inaudible. 
CARL PETTERSSON:   My iron play hasn't been very good.   I've driven it well and I've putted well but my iron game the last two years has been pretty average really.   I feel like towards the end of last year, it was getting a lot better and I practiced a lot in the off‑season. 
So it was good today and yesterday and hopefully I can carry that on to the rest of the year.   When the irons are good, it frees up the rest of the game.   You can hit a lot more greens and you don't have to get the ball up‑and‑down as much.   It's hard to play when you're firing at flags. 

Q.   Inaudible. 
CARL PETTERSSON:   No, just a different attitude.   I tried‑‑ the reason I haven't hit my irons good is I haven't been able to get my weight to the left side and I've been trying to do that for two or three years.   It takes a while to finally‑‑

Q.   Inaudible. 
CARL PETTERSSON:   I think as a golf course, if you're on, you can play well and if you're not on your game, you can struggle.   I love the golf course.   I think it's one of the better golf courses we play all year. 
Yeah, like I said, if your game is in good shape, you can do well here, but if you are struggling just a little bit, it's very difficult to score. 
I've missed the cut here plenty of times and I've finished in the Top‑10 a few times, too. 

Q.   How did you find the course today?   Were the fairways firmer than usual? 
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, I played great.   This course plays at its best when the fairways are bouncing.   It was pretty firm out there.   I know we had some rain a couple of nights ago.   The greens are still a little bit soft but the greens roll great and the course is in fabulous shape. 

Q.   Could you describe the various attitudes you've brought to a new year and how this one is different? 
CARL PETTERSSON:   I usually push myself too hard at the beginning of every season trying to accomplish everything at once, and this year, I'm going into in care free and prepare myself fully. 
Once I get out there, it's hard to do and just accept what happens and try not to‑‑ like, I've got to make this putt.   Just hit it and if it goes in, it goes in and if it doesn't, no big deal.   But it's easier said than done.   But it's the sort of attitude I'm trying to play with. 

Q.   Inaudible. 
CARL PETTERSSON:   I missed a few.   I missed the green on 16 and 17 and I got it up‑and‑down.   But, yeah, there was a little battle going on in there (chuckling). 
I think you get tested every round of golf in that department.   Hopefully I can do this, but, you know‑‑ I'm usually all right. 
JOHN BUSH:   Thanks for your time.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT