WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2011
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Carl, good stuff today, 65. No bogies on the card. Start with a birdie at 1. 5-under for the day. Tell us about the round.  
 CARL PETTERSSON: I played good. Didn't do anything spectacular. Put the ball in play and hit the shots and made the putt and going 4-under through 10 and 5-under through 12 but, overall, happy with it.  
  
  Q. You won here back in 2008. How different is the golf course now than it was three years ago?  
 CARL PETTERSSON: The golf course is pretty much the same. The rough is up a little bit this year. It's nice to play somewhere where you've done well. I always enjoy coming here and playing here. I grew up in Greensboro. I got good Mojo.  
  
  Q. Went to NC State. How often did you get to play it?  
 CARL PETTERSSON: I never did play it. We had the tournament here but I wish I would have come out before that and played it. It's a great of course. I think everybody enjoys the old style type of golf. A shame we don't get to play it more often.  
  
  Q. 69 for you to start in FedExCup Points. Lot of guys trying to get in. You got to feel pretty comfortable, huh?  
 CARL PETTERSSON: I'd like to do better, obviously. Everybody does. I think I'm in the first two but I might have a great finish here and play well in The Playoffs. I haven't really done too good in The Playoffs in the past and I'm coming off two weeks off. I'm well rested for this event and the upcoming playoffs which I think will be nice.  
  
  Q. Well done today. Good luck the rest of the week.  
 CARL PETTERSSON: Thank you.  
  
  Q. You have 5-under to start the round. Talk about your play today.  
 CARL PETTERSSON: I played good. I birdied the first hole, which is always nice. Kind of gets you going good.   
 Played pretty solid, nothing spectacular but really good, put the ball in play and my iron game was pretty good and I putted well and I got it going.   
 I was 5-under through 12 and felt like I wanted to keep going. I couldn't make any birdies coming in but gave myself a good chance at coming in and I'm happy with the way I played. It's nice to see some putts go in.  
  
  Q. Talk about what slowed down the game, the back part of the back-9?   
 CARL PETTERSSON: I gave myself decent chances. I didn't make the putts. Tough to make them all. I played good. I stayed aggressive and kept firing at pins and couldn't get the ball in the hole last couple of holes but made a nice up and down on 18 for par which is nice.   
  
  Q. Obviously the weather is cooperating a little bit with the greens.  
 CARL PETTERSSON: The course is really good. The greens are good, soft. They're good to putt on and you know if you play well you can shoot a low round around here. I'm happy with my 5-under for the start. I got to keep going and shoot under par every day to have a chance.  
  
  Q. Is the weather helping you out at all? You're kind of used to the sweltering heat.  
 CARL PETTERSSON: It's hot everywhere we play in the summertime. It wasn't too bad this morning. It's heating up now. It's hot. Nothing you can do about it.  
  
  Q. I guess going forward, anything improved upon your game, the way you're playing now?  
 CARL PETTERSSON: I must improve on everything. After lunch, do a short practice and keep everything going. Actually staying at home tonight which is about an hour and fifteen minutes away. Hopefully I can keep going and play well.  
  
  Q. Always nice to be back here.  
 CARL PETTERSSON: I went to high school here, I grew up in Greensboro. That gives me good Mojo playing here. It's nice. I enjoy it.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT