TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 18, 2010
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Sometimes at the end of the round, it's the big par save that just makes you go, all right, I'm going to be able to enjoy dinner and you had a big par save at 8.   
 CARL PETTERSSON: Yeah, it was. It was nice. I made a good bogey on 7. It was a good bogey in the end but one of the easier holes; I was a little frustrated with making bogey there.  
 And then I made a great putt on 8 to save par, and you know, those are the things when you're playing well keeps the round going. I wanted to birdie the last, but I'm happy with the round.  
  
  Q. Tell me about this golf course overall. The temperature dropped this afternoon and the wind stayed up?  
 CARL PETTERSSON: Yeah, it was difficult. It's one of my favorite golf courses. I like it. It's tough. You have to play well around here. But you know, on a day like today, it's very difficult. I was happy to shoot a low one.   
  
  Q. The greens; how were they this afternoon for you guys?   
 CARL PETTERSSON: They were pretty firm. They were firm in practice. I knew they were going to be firm. They are all good. They are a little pale I guess. I guess they haven't had much growth here. Overall, they were good.  
  
  Q. You have to love this golf course. You say you love this golf course; THE position that you're in, what do you work on going into the second round?   
 CARL PETTERSSON: Just hitting it solid. I've been struggling a little bit with my game the last year or so. It's coming around this year. Just want to hit solid iron shots, so I'm just working on my iron game.   
  
  Q. How much does coming back to this golf course where you've won help you when you're trying to get out of a little bit of a lull in your game?   
 CARL PETTERSSON: Yeah, it's always good, I guess. I played decent this year. I haven't played great. I started off good with a fifth place finish at Sony. It's always good to come back to a place -- I got my first win here, and I've got great memories from that week. I guess you're a little inspired and it gets you thinking the right way.   
 I just need to think the right way, just think positive, and that's what I'm trying to do this week.  
  
  Q. Has that been an issue for you about just the power of positive thinking?  
 CARL PETTERSSON: Well, I kind of lost my swing last year. I sort of rebuilt my swing and I'm just going to trust it. It's hard to do. It's easy to do on the range. I hit it good on the range. Today I hit it good on the golf course and hopefully if I get more rounds like this, confidence comes quick.   
  
  Q. What specifically did you rebuild?  
 CARL PETTERSSON: I used to hit a draw, quite a bit of draw, and I got the club too much on the inside last year, and this year, I've tried to -- I'm almost trying to hit a cut to get the club more out, so it's a little difficult. But I think I'm -- when I do it the right way, I become a better player.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT