WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2008
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: Alright. Carl Pettersson, thanks for joining us for a few minutes here in the Wyndham Championship Press Room.
 Another great round today, 4-under par 66. Head into the final round tomorrow with a two shot lead over Scott McCarron. Just a couple comments on the round to open up.
 CARL PETTERSSON: Yeah. I played really good today. I don't know if I missed many greens, maybe missed one, two. Played real solid. 
 Probably the worse score I could have shot but, you know, it's tough to play after -- day after you shot 61 and I thought I played good and pretty happy with the score.
 DOUG MILNE: When you say the worse score you could have shot, what do you mean by that?
 CARL PETTERSSON: Well, I had so many chances today, just didn't convert the putts like I did yesterday. But, you know, I felt like I hit decent putts here and there. 
 Obviously on 15 I was a little disappointed with the 3-putt bogey there but I played that hole terrible all week so I'll keep the trend going (laughter). 
 DOUG MILNE: We'll take some questions.

 Q. What's the mindset tomorrow? You just got to keep doing what you've been doing the first three days in?
 CARL PETTERSSON: Yeah, exactly. Today was an important round, I thought, have a good one today, make sure the swing was still there and it felt great.
 So, yeah, tomorrow I'm going to have to do the same thing, play aggressive, play good and -- because you know the scoring is so low. Somebody is going to probably shoot 62 tomorrow or -- and come out of the pack, so, you know, me and Scott both are going to have to go low and should be exciting. Hopefully be a good finish.

 Q. Were you aware that Scott was making those three birdies ahead of you while you were making pars and did it change anything?
 CARL PETTERSSON: No, not really. I saw somebody hole it on 18 out of the bunker, but it's just Saturday afternoon. I wasn't really looking at scoreboards. I was just focusing on my own game and it's too early in the game. 
 Maybe back-9 Sunday you might have a look at some scoreboards and see what's happening but, no, I was just concentrating on my own game and trying to make birdies myself.

 Q. Carl, why is it difficult coming back after a 61? Is it invincibility thing?
 CARL PETTERSSON: I don't know. I've only shot 61 once before (laughter). You know, unless you get off to a really hot start you kind of feel like you're behind the 8 ball. 
 I kept telling myself that today. I started solid with four straight pars and it was nice getting the eagle on 5, but sometimes you can start pressing too much in golf. Pressing is not really good to do where you've got to let the birdies happen, let the putts go in. You can't really force them in.
 I don't know if you're familiar with that, but you just got to let it happen. You can't force it. 
 So I think it's easy to get agitated after -- the day before you made everything, got off to a good start and if you get off to a so-so start, you get frustrated.
 Yeah, I managed to do it well today. I stayed patient and played really good.

 Q. Did you feel a sense of urgency with four straight pars? Most other places people would take that. Do you feel like you're coming back to the pack with four straight pars?
 CARL PETTERSSON: No, not really. I knew 5, if I just put the ball in the fairway I could reach the green so I knew I was going to have a good birdie chance there and no, it was okay. I felt like my swing was there. I was hitting shots and so I wasn't really too worried about it.

 Q. Carl, what are you doing specifically better this week as opposed to most of the rest of the year? 
 Is it anything you can pinpoint?
 CARL PETTERSSON: I supposed I'm holing a few more putts here and there and getting it closer to the pin, probably, and you know, such a small margin between mediocre round and great round, and just making the key putts here and there to keep the round going and just little things like that, I think. It's tough to really pinpoint it but I wish I played like this more often.

 Q. Carl, you seem to be very comfortable playing Sedgefield. Do you feel like it's set-up a little easy with the scores the way they are?
 CARL PETTERSSON: Well, you know, with the length of the golf course, you know, pros are going to have short clubs in, they're going make birdies no matter where you tuck the pins and stuff. 
 I think the guys are really enjoying it. We've had such a tough stretch this last year. I think everybody is enjoying making birdies. I think the fans enjoy watching it and it's something different. I think it's good.

 Q. I understand you asked a fellow Grimsley alum what a whirly was. You still don't know what a whirly is or have you found out yet?
 CARL PETTERSSON: I don't think anybody knows (laughter). Whirlwind, tornado. We don't know the exact definition. I'll let you to check that out tonight for me.
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. Carl, if you wouldn't mind just in conclusion, just running us through your birdies and eagle -- you started with the 5th hole. What is it about it? You've played in it 5-under so far this week. 
 Start with your with your eagle on 5.
 CARL PETTERSSON: Yeah. I like that one better than 15. Yeah. Eagle on 5. I hit driver, 8-iron to about four feet and made a putt.
 7, I hit 4-iron to about ten feet and made the putt.
 12, I hit 8-iron to 12 feet and made the putt.
 Bogey on 15, driver, rescue just pin high left, chipped it down to four feet and three-jacked it.
 Birdie on 17, driver, sand iron, to about three feet. Made it.
 DOUG MILNE: Carl, we appreciate your time and best of luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT