THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
May 29, 2008
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Some good memories today, some good karma going?
 CARL PETTERSSON: Yeah, I played really good on the front side and then I lost my tee ball a little bit on the back side. But I scrambled well. My putter held me in there. I made some nice putts for par and overall I played good. Yeah. 

 Q. Nice way to finish on 18 too. Talk about that. 
 CARL PETTERSSON: I hit a 3-wood club off the tee and just pulled it a hair and it landed in the hazard. And dropped it and hit a great 8-iron to about six feet and made it for par. So that was a nice way to finish. Almost felt like birdie.

 Q. How difficult is it out there?
 CARL PETTERSSON: The course is pretty tough, really. Today we had perfect conditions. We're going to get some low scores. But the fairways being firm and the greens are so quick and firm, with the conditions being like this, you can hit a good shot close, but it's still difficult with the greens being fast and firm. 

 Q. How fast are they? Compared to what you guys see week in and week out?
 CARL PETTERSSON: Probably the fastest we have seen this year so far.

 Q. Faster than Augusta?
 CARL PETTERSSON: I didn't play Augusta this year so I don't know. But, yeah I would say they're right up there.

 Q. Do you have more confidence playing a place where you won before? Does that help you mentally?
 CARL PETTERSSON: Yeah, I think. So it's always nice to come back. I enjoyed playing the practice round and, yeah, I like this golf course and it's always nice play somewhere where you've had success. You got good memories and it was nice today. I enjoyed the day.

 Q. Was it different than last year? Last year you were defending champ, two years removed now. Does it feel different?
 CARL PETTERSSON: A little bit maybe. I got off to a good start last year and didn't play very good on the weekend. I felt pretty relaxed today and I played well and hopefully I can carry it over the next three days.

 Q. Your best putts you said were for par. 
 CARL PETTERSSON: Yeah, I made a couple of -- I made a long one on 17 for par after hitting a terrible bunker shot. But I made a couple of nice ones just to keep the round going which is really the difference. 

 Q. How different is this course from the year you won right now do you think?
 CARL PETTERSSON: Oh, I think that the year I won it was real soft. And we had a lot of rain. But it would be fun if it stayed dry. It would play a lot different than it has in the past. It's still a great golf course, even if it plays wet or dry. But I think it plays its best when it's dry.

 Q. Can the greens get any faster do you think?
 CARL PETTERSSON: I'm sure they can, but.

 Q. Would it be unfair if they got much faster?
 CARL PETTERSSON: Maybe a little bit. It's just on the slopey parts. 18's a tough green, got a lot of slope to it. If you put the ball in the right place it's still fine, but I like them. I made a lot of putts today so I like them the way they're playing. 

 Q. Does it feel any different when Tiger not in the field?
 CARL PETTERSSON: No, not really. It's obviously more people when he's playing, but if you're not playing with him it's just like another tournament. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT