ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 14, 2008
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LAURY LIVSEY:  Carl, thank you for coming in and joining us.  Solid round, why don't we start with your birdies and bogeys. 
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Started off on 1, 3-wood, 8-iron to about three feet and made it. 
 No. 3, I hit a 3-wood, 9-iron to about ten feet and made it. 
 No. 6, 3-wood, 6-iron, lob-wedge to about eight feet and made it. 
 No. 10, hit 3-wood, gap wedge, 12 feet and made it. 
 11, hit 3-wood, 7-iron to about 15 feet and made it. 
 12, driver, 6-iron, 8-iron, 15 feet and made it. 
 Bogey on 16.  I pulled a driver left, laid up with a 9-iron and hit a lob-wedge to ten feet and missed it. 

 Q.  Where did this come from? 
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Well, I started playing good yesterday.  Actually, I started playing good last week.  Played good, just never scored good last week.  The two days it blew, I didn't play very good.  The calm days, I played nice. 
 Played solid, just made a stupid double on 9 yesterday and today I started with three birdies and that kind of set me off. 

 Q.  Did you start on the back? 
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Started on the back. 

 Q.  You doubled 9? 
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah, I hit it in the left rough, laid up and then I had 70 yards and hit it 30, and I wasn't in the sand divot.  It was just one of those shots where you're like, what is that.  But that got me fired up and I shot 4-under on the back nine yesterday, which was good. 

 Q.  You finished at 2 or 3 yesterday? 
 CARL PETTERSSON:  2.  Maybe I shot 3-under on the back nine. 

 Q.  Maybe should you hit shots like that more often. 
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Not good for the confidence. 

 Q.  It went how far? 
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Halfway.  The fairways are kind of sandy in spots and I was trying to hit a spinner and to do that, you want to slide the club underneath.  You know, just chunked it. 

 Q.  So it's just the greens that were sandy? 
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Well. 

 Q.  Players at your level, what's your first reaction when you do something like?  I mean, I do it all the time so I'm all right with it. 
 CARL PETTERSSON:  You get pretty pissed off but you have to settle down for the next shot and try to get up-and-down for a five.  You know, this game is so weird.  I've hit every shot there is to hit, every good and bad. 
 You know, I was mad, but I focussed in good on the next two shots.  I still didn't make my five, but I get even more pissed off if I'm not focused on the next couple shots.  I was glad I got focused on the next.  It's a frustrating game; you can flush it and then hit a shot like that. 
 Today I hit it nicely, just a couple of squirrely drives and a lot of 3-woods just to get it in play.  The rough is so thick. 

 Q.  What's your take on this golf course; are you okay with it? 
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah, I've played it the last six years; I like it.  Pretty simple golf course really.  If you play well, you're going to score.  If you don't play, you're going to struggle because the rough is always up, and there's no tricks about it.  I think it's pretty good. 

 Q.  What do you think the rough is going to be like after rain? 
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Probably harder.  It will let lush, tough to get the ball out.  It's tough anyway.  You can get a few lies here and there but if you miss the fairway, it's brutal.  If you go off a little bit, you've got a chance, but sometimes you can't advance anymore than a foot. 

 Q.  Do you think it will be brutal if it didn't get any rain at all? 
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah. 

 Q.  It's supposed to get rainy today, isn't it? 
 CARL PETTERSSON:  It looks dark right now, yeah. 

 Q.  Nice to have this over with? 
 CARL PETTERSSON:  It's always nice to play early on Friday and then regroup for the weekend. 

 Q.  Have you been kind of spinning your wheels lately? 
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah, I usually get off to a slow start every year.  I was hoping this year would be different but it wasn't. 
 Playing all right.  One week I putt good, hit it bad.  Next week, I hit it good, putt bad.  I feel like it's coming along pretty good. 

 Q.  What do you do in the off-season that you start so slowly? 
 CARL PETTERSSON:  I don't know.  This year I actually practiced quite a bit.  I don't know, it's not so much the game, it's just getting comfortable playing competitive again.  I would like to play a few more events in the off-season, but then again, I don't feel like traveling to Australia or South Africa. 
 But I know I'm probably going to get off to a slow start and play better as the year goes on. 

 Q.  Always play better, get in the Skins Game.  That would take care of things. 
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Exactly. 

 Q.  What do you have next few weeks? 
 CARL PETTERSSON:  I've got a week off next week, unless I do something good here, and then I'm going to play New Orleans and Houston.  I've never played Houston before. 

 Q.  Why this year? 
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Because I'm not in the Masters.  If I was in the Masters, I would probably skip it. 
 It's just one of those tournaments that I haven't missed it on purpose.  It's just. 

 Q.  Just didn't fit for you? 
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Right. 

 Q.  Does it bother you when you're not in a World Golf Championships or not in the Masters? 
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah, bothered me I wasn't in the Match Play.  I think my World Ranking is 81st or something.  I'd like to get back.  The lowest I've been is 22nd.  You know, get back in the Top-50 and start playing.  I feel like when I do play good, I'm right up there. 
 Sometimes it's good, it gives you a little kick in the rear. 
 LAURY LIVSEY:  Thanks, Carl. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT