FRY'S ELECTRONICS OPEN
October 20, 2007
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE:  Carl, thanks for joining us.  Looking at the scorecard you're getting progressively better as the week goes on, 64 today, no bogeys on the round.  Maybe just a couple general comments about the round today. 
 CARL PETTERSON:  Yeah, I played nice.  I started off on the first hole with a birdie, so that was always a nice start.  I played nice.  I only missed two greens and didn't give myself any real, you know, opportunities to make bogey.  I played steady and putted pretty good, too. 
 DOUG MILNE:  How about just a few comments on the course.  Is your game suited well for this kind of course? 
 CARL PETTERSON:  It seems to be so far.  The course is good.  I think the greens are firm.  That's why they scored not super-low, but not super long, tricky around the greens, a lot of slope on the greens, and they can tuck those pins away.  The course is playing pretty fast right now, too. 

 Q.  Are you a fan of desert golf in general? 
 CARL PETTERSON:  I don't dislike it.  I don't love it.  I've never played really well in the desert.  But yeah, I enjoy playing it.  It's fun. 

 Q.  It looked like, I think they showed a graphic through 16 that you had 31 holes without a bogey.  What's brought along this steady play you've had here this week in terms of few mistakes? 
 CARL PETTERSON:  I've just hit my irons really good and I'm not missing that many greens.  I'm putting well, obviously; to be close to the lead, you have to putt well. 
 Today I drove the ball better than I did the first two days and hit my irons really good.  So hit a lot of greens and not too many 5- or 6-footers.  I'm either knocking them in or leaving them right on the edge. 

 Q.  A lot of the guys have talked about the graininess of the greens, can you talk about the challenge of that and how you're coping on that? 
 CARL PETTERSON:  I played on a lot of bermuda growing up.  I group in Sweden but I live in North Carolina.  I feel comfortable on bermudagrass.  Obviously they have a lot of grain, but you can see where the grain is going, and I think the valley effect has a lot to do with it, too.  Breaks towards Phoenix. 
 DOUG MILNE:  You're one of the few that managed to get through the 7th hole unscathed, and that's obviously been a tough hole this week. Can you talk about the 7th hole and how you managed to play your way through? 
 CARL PETTERSON:  I think it's a par 5, so it doesn't setup great for a long iron in there.  I hit a 3-wood off the tee every day and left myself about a mid-iron.  It's a hard green to hit.  First day I got up-and-down for par and today and yesterday I hit it about 15 feet. 
 So you've just got to hit a good second shot, good tee shot, good second shot to give yourself a chance. 

 Q.  What are your thoughts on the Fall Series in general and the opportunity that it gives guys to jockey up the Money List? 
 CARL PETTERSON:  I think it's been good.  I've played -- this is my third tournament in the Fall Series.  I've just had two weeks after.  I think it's good.  I think the players are enjoying it.  It's been exciting, really.  The last couple of weeks have been pretty good. 

 Q.  Playing 28 tournaments this year, is that normal or you? 
 CARL PETTERSON:  Yeah, I usually play about 30 tournaments. 

 Q.  Isn't that a lot for most people? 
 CARL PETTERSON:  I think TOUR average is probably 28, so I'll end up with 31.  I was close to getting in the Top-30.  So I was chasing there at the end, and I'm still trying to get in the Top-30. 

 Q.  Is that the primary motivation for playing at this point in the season? 
 CARL PETTERSON:  Yeah, and get another win, and obviously trying to get in the Top-30.  That's two of my goals. 
 DOUG MILNE:  Are you playing the two after this? 
 CARL PETTERSON:  Yeah, I'm playing the next two weeks. 

 Q.  And your thoughts on tomorrow, can you talk about that, your approach? 
 CARL PETTERSON:  Well, it's going to be different.  I heard it's going to blow 30 miles per hour.  If it does that, it will be completely different.  But if it stays the same, got to play aggressive and just the way we have been and the score will be low.  But if it blows 30, I mean, everything goes out the window. 
 DOUG MILNE:  Let's just run through your birdies real quick, if you could give us some clubs. 
 CARL PETTERSON:  First hole I hit 3-wood into the fairway bunker, pitching wedge to about 25 feet and made it. 
 Fourth hole, the par 5, I hit driver, rescue just left of the green and chipped up to about two feet and made it. 
 Fifth hole, I hit a 6-iron to about eight feet and made it. 
 10th hole, I hit a 4-iron off the tee, gap wedge to about 12 feet and made that. 
 11, I hit driver, rescue club on to the green and 2-putted from about 65 feet. 
 Then 15, I hit driver just short of the green and chipped up to about a foot and made it. 

 Q.  On 11, can you talk about that?  What was the lag, putting from 65 feet? 
 CARL PETTERSON:  I left it about eight feet short and made it from there. 
 DOUG MILNE:  Carl, thanks for coming in.  Best of luck tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT