DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2014
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  As you came to the 18th tee, looking like you need at least a par to secure a spot in the BMW Championship, how was your stress level at that point?  CARL PETTERSSON: Well, I hit a perfect drive.  I felt calm on the tee.  I drove it perfect down the middle.  It was between a 4- and 5-iron, and I tried to hit a perfect 5, but where it ended up wasn't too bad, but it was right up against the collar, and then I played a pretty poor chip.  But then I made a good up and down.  I was lucky to get out of there with five.   Q.  How difficult considering everything that was on the line for you, was that final 12-footer, which, by the way, was the longest putt you made today.  CARL PETTERSSON: Yeah, it was pretty nerve-wracking.  I knew it was a big putt.  I knew if I birdied the hole, I probably had a good chance.  I just made a mess of it up by the green.  I had to take a couple of deep breaths and really focus in.  It was nice when it went in.   Q.  I asked you what was your stress level like on the 18th tee.  It looks like you're going to advance to the BMW Championship, but it is still a fluid situation.  What's your stress level like now?  CARL PETTERSSON: I'm fine now.  I've done what I can do.  Yeah, I would love to have made birdie there.  Hopefully I will move on to next week.   Q.  Did you come in with a number in mind today?  CARL PETTERSSON: I knew I had to shoot 4- or 5-under.  But you just don't know how everybody else is going to play.  I got off to a great start and just kept that momentum going.  The course played a little bit easier with the softer greens.  As I was playing my round I was thinking, well, maybe 4 and 5 is not going to do it.  I was hoping to get to 6.  But I got to 5, which is hopefully good enough.   Q.  On the chip on the third shot were you playing for birdie there or just trying --  CARL PETTERSSON: I couldn't have got it in a worse spot.  The angle I was, there was a ridge there, so if I go left of the ridge, that's the only way to get it close.  If it went right it would have taken the ridge, and then I was up against the collar which made it even more difficult.  Overall I didn't play a very good chip, but I took the shot on, and then it went left and long, and I managed to get it up and down, which was nice.  I could have baled it out right and played for the par, but I was going for the birdie.   Q.  How stressful are rounds like this where you're watching double numbers fluctuate?  CARL PETTERSSON: I wasn't too stressed out, because I knew I had to have a good round, but I wanted to have a chance for mine to go.  After nine holes I put myself in that position.  Yeah, it was a little bit more tense than a normal event.  You want to advance, you don't want the season to be over.  I played very nicely.  I played great today.  I could have shot really low, but I was happy to get to 5-under.  End.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT