TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
September 22, 2007
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEWART MOORE:  Carl Pettersson, thanks for spending a few moments here with us in the interview room at the Turning Stone Championship.  You had a fantastic 66 in some pretty windy conditions, and looking at your card you haven't made a bogey in the last two rounds; you're playing very well.   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah, I'm hitting my irons really about g and putting it in play fairly good.   
 Yeah, I'm pleased with the way I played today.  I thought it played a little harder today than it did the first two days.  Looking forward to tomorrow.   
 STEWART MOORE:  You played well lately, you finished fifth at the Wyndham and Top-10 at the BMW Championship; are you starting to get hungry to get another one?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah, that was one of my goals the last two years.  I was disappointed I didn't make the Top-30 in Atlanta.  But I've got a chance; I'm going to play four of the last seven and try to get back into the Top-30 on the Money List.  That's part of my goals for the Fall Series.   
 STEWART MOORE:  Can we go through your birdies?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  3, I hit a 7-iron to about 17 feet and made the putt.   
 No. 5, I hit driver, 7-iron and made the 12-footer for eagle.   
 Then 13, I hit driver, 7-iron to about 15 feet and made the putt.   
 16, I hit an 8-iron to about 20 feet and made the putt.   
 And 17, I hit a gap wedge to probably about 11 feet and made the putt.   
  
  Q.  No. 5 has been playing pretty easy all week.  Wondering, I think there's been 16 eagles or 17 eagles, what is it about that hole that's been so easy this week?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Well, it's been downwind so it's been reachable for everybody in the field.  It's still a fairly tricky drive.  You've got to hit a pretty good drive to hit the fairway.   
 As long as you hit a good drive, you've got a mid-iron.  I actually hit 3-wood, 7-iron today.  So, you know, that's a very short par 5.  It's reachable for everybody.  So there's going to be a lot of chances for eagle.  That's why there's a lot of eagles.   
  
  Q.  You talked about the wind today, was there a particular stretch of holes where it was a little more punitive than others?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah, I thought 13, 14 played a lot harder with the wind today.  You know, a lot of the par 5s played easier because they were downwind and you could reach them.  But some of the holes that were fairly easy yesterday and the day before were tricky.  Today instead of hitting wedge, I was hitting 7-irons and 6-irons.   
 I think that's why the scoring was still low, because the par 5s were reachable, and if you played the difficult holes well, you could still shoot a good number.   
  
  Q.  Do you have a game plan for tomorrow?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  You've just got to shoot low.  Everybody is shooting low here.  I don't even know what the -- I haven't really looked at the scoreboard, so I don't know who is leading or what place I'm in.   
  
  Q.  Really?  You have no idea where you are?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Well, I looked at it briefly but it changes so fast.  There's no -- I don't really pay attention until about five holes to go tomorrow if I'm playing well.   
 Yeah, you've just got to shoot low.  Every day somebody's shot 8-under.  So I imagine tomorrow is going to be the same.  Somebody has to come from behind and post a good number; and if you're close to the lead, you have to go low.   
 STEWART MOORE:  Talking about low scores, players have been talking about the perfect greens this week, and a lot of players have commented on the conditioning of the courses, one of the top on TOUR in terms of conditioning; is that something you agree with?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah, it's beautiful.  The course is in immaculate shape.  It's nice and it's fun to play.  I think it will have a lot better field next year with all of the top amongst the guys.   
 You know, I'm certainly enjoying this week.  It's been a good tournament.   
  
  Q.  Is it almost because of the conditions, is it too easy; is there such a thing?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Look at all of the other tournaments.  Greensboro, the winning score was 22- or 23-under par.  It's just some weeks, you know, guys play well, they are going to shoot lower.   
 I think it's fun to have courses like this once in awhile.  We've had a lot of hard courses this year.  The Florida stretch was brutal.  I think it's a nice mixture of playing some tough courses where 8- or 9-under wins, and then it's nice to have somewhere you win in the 20s.   
 STEWART MOORE:  Carl, great playing, best of luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT