WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2007
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Put a nice score up.  Do you walk away disappointed or encouraged?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Bit of both, really.  I got off to such a good start today and I think I was 7-under through 13 and really looking to shoot really low but got derailed a little bit on 15 and 16.   
 Parred 15 but I only had a 4-iron into a par-5 for my second shot and bogeyed 16.  But overall, I'm happy.  I'm only two back.  So I look forward to tomorrow and see what happens.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about playing in Carolina and the feeling, you got some fans behind you, NC State history?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  It's a little different.  I feel a little added pressure to play well.  It's nice to play well today and now I can just get on with it, you know, for the rest of the week and I'm looking forward to possibly having a good finish.   
  
  Q.  Somebody talked about this being your best opening round in Greensboro.  Do you keep track of that kind of stuff?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  I think so.  I think I shot 4-under a couple years ago.  Yes.  It's nice to get off to a good start.   
  
  Q.  The fact you were off last week, does that help you get through this week a little better physically?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  It was hot today.  I don't think it was near as hot as last week.  I didn't play last week so just had a baby and so maybe a little bit, yeah, yeah.   
  
  Q.  How is that affecting you, your fatherhood?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  My second one.  I've got a little bit of experience but, yeah, it's fun and it's a lot of work but it's work you don't mind doing.   
  
  Q.  With the whole field this low in the scores, is it hard to keep that going knowing that you're going to have to keep it kind of low every round?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Just have to stay patient.  Probably 20-under, somewhere around there will win.  You know, I've got 14 more to go and -- but you just got to play and try to make as many birdies as you can and see what happens.   
  
  Q.  Because it's so hot are the greens playing a little bit easier because they've had to put a little extra water on them and kept them a little longer?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  It's easy to get to pins.  The ball is pretty much stopping wherever it hits.  You can be real aggressive with your second shots.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT