JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 15, 2007
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Carl, at the top of the leaderboard early on in this tournament, tough day Saturday but you made a run at it today.  You got real close early on the back nine.   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah, that's right.  I played good on the front nine, couldn't make a putt, and then I made -- I had a good birdie on 9 and 10, and then I felt like I got myself back into it, and it hit it well tee to green to maybe do something, just missed a few putts.  But overall it's nice to get a good finish, and I'm a little disappointed how I played on the weekend, but overall happy.   
  
  Q.  This will be your first Top 5 and the first three days you putted lights out, so the fact that you've got the tee-to-green game going, you should feel good about heading across the pond?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah, obviously I'm hitting it good.  It's totally different golf next week, but I'm looking forward to getting on the plane and getting over there, getting that trip over and done with and then playing some links golf.  Should be fun.   
  
  Q.  Are you looking forward to it?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah, I love the British Open.  It's probably my favorite tournament.  I've done decent in the past, and I like that type of golf.   
  
  Q.  Again, great performance here.  Welcome to the Midwest.   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah, I enjoy it here, and I'll be back next year.   
  
  Q.  68 is a good run at it here.  Sounds like the problem is more yesterday than today.   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah, yesterday I got off to a terrible start.  I was 3-over through 4 and fought my way back.  In the end it was pretty good, even par.  I played decent today.  I could have holed a few more putts, but yesterday was disappointing.   
  
  Q.  How important was it shooting a good round before going over to the Open Championship?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah, exactly.  I feel like I'm playing nice and I'm looking forward to the British Open.  It's my favorite tournament every year, so I'm thrilled.  I'm looking forward to it.   
  
  Q.  Players from Sweden travel all over the place so you've had experience.  What's the number one strategy for getting over there, getting over the six-hour time change and being 100 percent as soon as possible?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Well, Tylenol PM on the plane, take about a four-hour nap, and I'm actually probably going to play nine holes tomorrow night when I get there just to stay awake.   
  
  Q.  How about this staying awake business?  Do you get to 8:00, 9:00 and your eyes are still heavy, you have to keep yourself up on local time, right?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah, you've got to do it the first day right.  You've got to try to stay up until 10:00 or 11:00 o'clock and then try to get in their time zone as quick as possible.  I've done it quite a few times.  It still wears on you.   
  
  Q.  Trajectory, things like that, are you thinking about how high or low to keep the ball next week, landing short and running it up?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah, exactly, I had a 2-iron made up this week for next week, and I think I have a hybrid, and just little stuff like that.  You've got to hit a lower tee ball, stuff like that.   
  
  Q.  Not a bad round today.   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah, it was pretty good.  I played pretty good, I had it going for a while, felt like I left a few out there, but everyone is going to say that.  I just hope my buddy Tim Clark can pull it off.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT