TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2007
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Carl, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the Travelers Championship.  Kind of a slow start there with a double bogey on 4, but you obviously bounced back beautifully on the back side.   
 CARL PETTERSSON: It was nice.  I made double on 4, but I was hitting the ball nice.  I got a quick birdie on 5, which helped, and then played really good the whole way in.   
  
  Q.  Does something like that not really bother you because it's so early in the round?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  It always bothers you. I felt like I was hitting the ball nice.  It was a bunker shot right over the green and I made a mess of it.  Some weeks you get more irritated than others and today I was fine.  I hit a nice shot into 5 and made the putt.  I think if you can make a quick birdie the next couple of holes, it helps.   
  
  Q.  Have you been working on your game?   
 CARL PETTERSSON: I've been working a lot of on my short game.  I felt my short game was pretty bad at the beginning of the year.  It's pretty good now.   
  
  Q.  The golf course, does it suit your eye?  Do you like coming here?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  This is my third year.  My first year I missed the cut.  Last year I played pretty average.  The golf course is nice.   
  
  Q.  Do you think that's because a lot of times it falls either before or after a major championship?  That's where the tournament is usually been, the majority of the last decade anyway.   
 CARL PETTERSSON: I think it feels pretty good this year.  It's a lot better.  Travelers, they've done a good job, they've ramped it up a little bit. The golf course is phenominal.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone).   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  I played pretty good tee-to-green, I just haven't made many putts.  Today I made a bunch and that was nice, and I putted well last week.  I felt like I'm playing pretty close to what I did last year, I just have to get the putter going.   
 JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Let's go through your round, starting with the double bogey on 4.   
 4, I hit it in the middle of the fairway, pulled a 6-iron, and hit it over the green, didn't get it up and down, for double.   
 5, I hit a rescue to about 12 feet and made the putt.   
 8, I hit a 4-iron to about 20 feet and made it.   
 11, a wedge to about 16 feet and made the putt.   
 12, I hit a sand iron to two and a half feet and knocked it in.   
 13, driver, two iron, two putted for birdie, about 40 feet.   
 14, driver, gap wedge, made about a 16-footer.   
 15, 3-wood to the right, fairway trap, came up short, chipped it up and two putted.   
 Birdie on 17, 3-wood in the left bunker, 9-iron to 20 feet and made the putt.   
 18, driver, gap wedge to 10 feet and made it.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT