DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 29, 2014
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Good round.  Start off talking about 18.  I thought that was a terrific par save.  Second shot goes in the marsh there.  And that was a good putt you made?CARL PETTERSSON: Yeah, I only had 225 to clear the marsh, and a little downhill lie into the wind.  And I was just trying to cut a 3-wood in there.  And it didn't carry. It was nice to get up and down for par.  It's a tricky green, the 18th green, and I had a tough putt over a hump, and managed to get it in, which was nice.Q. 26 total putts today, that was really the strength of the game.  Your putter was hot today, wasn't it?CARL PETTERSSON: Yeah, it was.  I missed a few, but all golfers like to complain.  But it was nice.  Nice to get off to a solid start.  I didn't play very good last week.  So nice to get off it to a good start this week.Q. Where is the game now?  Second leg of the FedExCup playoffs, obviously you want to play next week, and you're in good shape after this good start.  Where is the game right now?CARL PETTERSSON: Well, I played good today.  I played nice and solid.  Made a few putts, like I said.  Overall game is pretty good.  I was driving it as good as I wanted to.  Iron game was good.  Short game was good.  Yeah, I need a good week this week, to advance to next week.  I'm off to a good start and just have to keep going.Q. What is the mindset in the playoffs, is this just another tournament or are you always looking where you stand?CARL PETTERSSON: Yeah, it feels a little different.  You put a little extra pressure on yourself, which is sometimes good, sometimes bad. Yeah, you want to get to Atlanta and have a crack at this, because if you're in Atlanta you have a chance.Q. Lastly, the weather looks like it's going to hold at least until Monday.  We don't know.  But the course is kind of dry and firm.  It's only going to get firmer and faster, don't you think?CARL PETTERSSON: Yeah, even though the wind didn't blow that much today, it played kind of tricky.  I don't think there were a lot of low scores.  It was a good test of golf today.  It's a good golf course.Q. Start of the day?CARL PETTERSSON: I was even through 4.  And the first four holes were pretty scorable.  A reachable par 5, and a drivable par-4.  But I made a nice birdie on 5, and that kind of got me going.  Played very nice for the most part of the day.  And it was fun playing.  I played nice on the back and it was nice finishing -- kind of made a mess at 18, and managed to make a nice 20-footer for par.Q. Does this course set up better for you a little firmer?CARL PETTERSSON: Yeah, I like it a little firmer.  It's a nice golf course.  I think the slight redesign over the years is better.  It's become a better golf course over the years.  I've always enjoyed playing here.Q. You kind of put yourself behind the 8-ball last week.  Now you've kind of got to feel good about the way you're playing?CARL PETTERSSON: Yeah, it was disappointing missing the cut last week.  But it feels good with a good round today.  Yeah, I need to keep going to get into next week.  And so I just take one day at a time.  The way this thing is set up, if you do finish well, you can move up a lot in the points.  That's good for me, being in the 93rd or whatever I'm at.  So if I can finish as good as I can, and move up as much as I can.Q. Do you consider yourself a pretty good pressure player?CARL PETTERSSON: I don't know.  I don't mind the heat.  It's part of winning.  I've won five times.  It's fun.  It's difficult sometimes, but it's part of the deal.  Yeah, it's kind of fun to have a little extra pressure.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT