WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 3, 2007
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Carl, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the Wachovia Championship.  Close to home and nice round of golf.   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Thanks.  It's nice to be in North Carolina.   
 JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Talk about what you did well out there today and maybe the conditions.   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  I thought I drove the ball well, which you need to do around here.  That gave me a lot of chances to go at pins, and obviously to shoot a good round I made some key putts.   
  
  Q.  Is it different dry than it is wet?  It's been wet here it seems like forever.   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah, you know, the course is playing shorter but it's hard to hit the fairways, but then the rough is not up as high as it usually is.  You know, it kind of evens it all out, really.  It plays shorter, tougher to hit the fairways, but if you miss the fairways the rough is less thick than it has been in years past so you can hit the greens, where before if you missed the fairway on a par 4 you had a tough time reaching the green in two.   
  
  Q.  Pull out driver as much as you did last year today or throttle it back a little bit?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  No, I played pretty aggressive, just because I was driving it well and I knew if I was hitting my driver well I could get it out there a long way.   
  
  Q.  What's your pedigree here at this course?  Have you done fairly well over the years?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  No, not very good.  A couple of tie 30th or 40th and two missed cuts.  I haven't really played well here in the past.   
  
  Q.  Do you have a fair amount of following when you come and play in North Carolina?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah, a little bit, some friends and stuff.  It was tough to get tickets this week with it being sold out.  The tournament helped me out a little bit, but I think maybe I'll have a few more guys coming out on the weekend.   
  
  Q.  How many tickets did you get?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  I ended up getting 20 tickets.   
  
  Q.  Are these all guys that you knew from high school days and et cetera?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Not so much high school.  There was a couple of college guys, guys I played with and stuff like that, friends from my club at home.   
  
  Q.  Mostly Americans?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  All Americans.   
  
  Q.  Which club is that?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Well, two clubs.  I play at TPC of Wakefield and the Heritage Golf Club at Wake Forest.   
  
  Q.  What do you think of the golf course in general?  Where does it fit sort of in the pecking order that you play on TOUR?  Some guys have been saying some pretty incredible things about where it ranks.   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  It's in the top five golf courses we play all year.  You know, the golf course is good, and then Wachovia does a great job of running the whole thing.  Everything is first class here.   
  
  Q.  Do you find it puts more -- when you have support in the galleries and stuff like that, does it put more pressure on you or do you thrive on that?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Well, a little bit.  I think if you're playing well, it gives you -- it doesn't put much pressure on you, but if you're not playing great, I feel like it's a little bit more pressure on you.  You feel like you have to play well at home and stuff like that.  If you get on a roll, it definitely helps.   
  
  Q.  Do you find yourself -- you've been in the U.S. so long, you're basically American, too?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah, I feel American, really.   
  
  Q.  Do you think in Swedish or do you think in English?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  No, in English.   
  
  Q.  Do you cuss in Swedish or in English?  That's the true test.   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  I don't cuss (laughter).  No, English.  I left Sweden when I was ten, so it's been English ever since then.  I feel more comfortable speaking English than Swedish.   
  
  Q.  Obviously great day.  Could you talk a little bit more about it?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah, I got off to a bad start.  I bogeyed No. 10, which is a par 5, which is terrible, really.  But I think that kind of woke me up and I came back with a birdie on 11 and that set the tone for the day and played really nice from there on out.  The course is playing tricky, so I was happy to get in at 4-under.   
  
  Q.  Did you hear a lot of Wolfpack fans out there?   
 CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah, quite a few.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT