WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2014
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Carl, another good round for you, 5-under, 65.   Your thoughts on how you played today.  
CARL PETTERSSON:   I played great today except for one little mishap on No. 8, my 17th hole.   The game felt good.   Played good yesterday and it carried around today.   Made a few more putts today.   Yeah, I'm pleased with my game and carry it on for this weekend.  
   
 Q.   I got to believe your success on this golf course, you won here, back to back ties, 4th place, if there was anything ever wrong with your golf game you could come here and get it right.  
CARL PETTERSSON:   It seems to be like that.   I tend to play well here.   I live about an hour away in Raleigh.   I grew up here.   I got good feelings when I turn up here.   My game sort of falls into place.  
   
 Q.   How different was the course today, did it firm up even more than what you had on Thursday?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah, it sure did.   Still you got it in the fairway and I did a good job of that, hitting the fairways.   The greens got firm and it was tough to get it close to the pins but made more putts today.   That was the key.  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on the weekend, still a long way to go but just two back, anything that happen.  
CARL PETTERSSON:   I'm in a nice spot, 2 back going into the weekend.   The scores are usually pretty low.   You got to keep your foot on the gas.  
   
 Q.   Way to go.   Good luck.  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   You're in good shape going into the weekend.   Talk about your round today and how you feel going into Saturday.  
CARL PETTERSSON:   I played great today except for my 17th hole, No. 8 I 3-putted from about 7 feet but played really solid, gave myself plenty of chances.   I hit the ball good, putted well.   It was a good day for me.  
   
 Q.   Talk about how you feel as far as this course in general, you're experienced here how the lay of the land is and then --  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Yeah.   I feel comfortable on the golf course.   I kind of know my way around here.   I played well here in the past so that's always a nice feeling and I look forward to a great weekend.   
This course you got to kind of keep your foot on the gas because the scoring is usually pretty low.   I can keep going and make more birdies.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT