FUNAI GOLF CLASSIC AT WALT DISNEY WORLD RESORT
October 22, 2005
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Standing alongside of Carl Peterson.  let's see 1984, 2005, that would be about 21 years ago somebody shot 61 on this golf course.  You just duplicated that feet.  Carl, congratulations.  11 under 61 is pretty impressive and you had to finish it early in the morning.
CARL PETTERSSON:  I was disappointed last night we couldn't finish.  But I came out this morning and made two birdies.  It was a nice feeling.
Q. 61 is good on its own right.  Shooting 61, and then one of the first people that you get to see is your dad, makes it very special.  And he was reflecting back on all the hard work that has gone into this.  He said, in fact, ten years ago you were down here in a Rolex junior tournament.  Do you even remember that?
CARL PETTERSSON:  Yes, we were down here Thanksgiving for the AJJ Rolex junior tournament.  That was the last time he was over here.  We always dreamed of playing the PGA Tour and it's a great feeling.
Q.  We have two round complete.  Weather is kind of iffy.  You're going to have about three hours before you begin Round 3 and that's under questionable weather.  You know the tour is going to do everything in their power to get a minimum of 54 holes in.

Do you play it different, Carl, knowing that your next 18 could be the last 18, or do you just go out there and try to do the best you can?
CARL PETTERSSON:  I think you go out there and do the best you can.  You can't predict what the weather is going to do.  We might not have any rain for the next two days; we might have a ton.  You just never know.  I just have to go out there and do my best, play aggressive and see what happens.
Q.  Is there anything going into this week where you said, This may be a good week for Carl Pettersson?
CARL PETTERSSON:  Yes.  I played in Vegas.  I played nice, I just didn't make any putts.  I've made a ton of putts the last few days.
Q.  So the putter has been working here.  Golf course conditions haven't bothered you?
CARL PETTERSSON:  No, they've been good.  The golf course is playing good, perfect.
Q.  What are you going to do for the next three hours?
CARL PETTERSSON:  Probably have some breakfast and chill out.
Q.  You played really well since Deutsche Bank.  What's changed?
CARL PETTERSSON:  I don't know.  I've got off to such a bad start this year, it hurt me mentally and I told myself, quit worrying about and start playing like you know you can.  Just more    I've had a few good rounds, which has given me more confidence, and I think that's the only difference.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT