DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2005
Carl Pettersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  We welcome Carl Pettersson at 10 under, 203 and part of the clubhouse lead after three rounds of the Deutsche Bank Championship.  Carl, two bogeys early and looks like five birdies out there.  Kind of a nice day for you.
CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah, good. I thought the golf course played pretty tough today and the greens firmed up, but I played good.  I played real nice, drove it good and putted well.
TODD BUDNICK:  What was working well for you today?
CARL PETTERSSON:  I scrambled well.  When I missed the greens I got it up and down.  I made some nice par putts today.  That's the key, any time you can make a few putts for par, it kind of keeps the momentum going and carries you through the day.
TODD BUDNICK:  Going back to the toughness of the course, early on, there were the two 63s and looked like it was going to be a different story from the first two rounds, and yet the course came back and bit again.
CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah, I think the greens are fairly soft in the morning and you can shoot a low one, but later in the day they get crisp.  Tough to get close on a few pins, but you can still shoot a good score, you just have to play really well.
Q.  Did you play here last year?
CARL PETTERSSON:  I didn't play it last year.  I played in '03, I think I finished tied for 11th.  Seems to fit me good.
Q.  Why didn't you play last year?
CARL PETTERSSON:  We were expecting our first child.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
CARL PETTERSSON:  No, it's just the wind.  Any time you have get a little breeze it's tough to get close to the pins.  I think that's what made it difficult.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah, yeah, exactly.  A little nervous today because I haven't played very good this year, but as the round went on I got more comfortable and I felt fine, I felt great out there.  I hope I can keep that up tomorrow.

Any time you're in the hunt like this, it's good to be nervous.  To me, it makes me focus better and sometimes on Thursdays and Fridays, it's tough to concentrate.
Q.  Inaudible?
CARL PETTERSSON:  You have to get the putter going.  I think if you get the putter going, you can shoot as low as you want.  Obviously you have to play well, but to shoot well you have to putt well, you have to make everything to shoot a round of 62.
TODD BUDNICK:  Let's go through your holes starting with the bogey on No. 5.
CARL PETTERSSON:  5, I pulled my tee shot into the left fairway trap and hit it over and hit the top lip, came up about 30 yards short of the pin, pitched it up and 2 putted for bogey.

6, I hit a 3 wood in the fairway and then a 9 iron about 15 feet.

8, I hit a 5 iron pin high right about 40 feet.

9, I hit a good tee shot, pulled an 8 iron left of the green and hit a decent chip.  Hit a bad putt and missed the putt.

12, I hit a driver and a 7 iron to about 12 feet and made it.

15, I hit driver, 9 iron to about 14 feet and made it.

18, I hit a driver in the fairway, 3 iron just short of the green.  I was actually in the hazard and pitched it up to about ten feet.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Carl.  Good luck tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT