MOUNTAIN WEST WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 8, 2017
Kathy Olivier
Dylan Gonzalez
Brooke Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Fresno State - 53  UNLV - 51   
COACH KATHY OLIVIER: Well, I thought Fresno did a really good job.  They have great length in that zone and it gave us a little trouble.  We never really got into the flow offensively.   
But we've done such a great job defensively all year.  I thought we did a great job on No. 4 in the first half and then she just got hot in that second half.  They're smart, they went to her in the second half.  We didn't really have an answer.  And our post players have been tremendous for us the whole year.  We hoped one could get it going.  We relied more on our outside shooting, but usually our defense creates some of our offense, and it really didn't do that tonight.   
 Q.  Obviously a very disappointing way to end the season, but can you guys kind of take a little solace in the fact that the whole team is going to be coming back next season?  
BROOKE JOHNSON: No, because we don't plan on our season being done right now.   
COACH KATHY OLIVIER: We've been talking about postseason all year, that's really been their focus.  And these ladies are really -- they were dialed into the NCAA.  We played a non-conference schedule that was very competitive, beat a good SC team at the time, now they have injuries.  Beat an Ole Miss team, an SEC team.  We were rolling.  We could have beat Oregon State, we had our point guard injured, that's when Nikki got injured.   
Our mindset was postseason, postseason, and it was really thinking about the NCAA and we'd be more than happy to go to the NIT and be very proud to represent the Mountain West in the NIT.   
 Q.  Then to springboard off of that, do you think that you've done enough to get there?  
COACH KATHY OLIVIER: 22 wins, I think these people -- I mean obviously I'm a little biased because I'm the coach, but they're amazing.  They worked their tails off.  They have captivated the community.  We have so many different options.  We have so many different people that can step up at any given night.  And with 22 wins and the schedule that we played, I would think that the NIT would be more than happy to have us represent.   
 Q.  I asked Fresno their opinion on this, for you on this side of it, you held them to 38 points when you beat them just a week or two ago.  What was the difference tonight as far as not being able to shut them down like you did in the first meeting in the regular season?  
DYLAN GONZALEZ: I think tournament time is a different time.  So it's kind of like everybody comes and plays at a completely different level.  When you come into any game you really have to act like you haven't played that team before, just because it's a completely different mindset.  Everybody is coming to try to take things to another level and that's exactly what Fresno did.  And we came and we tried to play our best basketball, too, and it's not like they came in and blew us out.  We respect their program very much.  It's tough to lose, especially in a really close game like that.  But it's just a different feel.  Different vibe in a tournament.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT