MAYAKOBA GOLF CLASSIC AT RIVIERA MAYA - CANCUN
February 23, 2007
Cameron Beckman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Cameron Beckman, thanks for coming in for a couple of minutes, welcome to the media center here.  67 today, bogey-free, still haven't made a bogey.  Why don't you give us a couple of comments on your round.   
 CAMERON BECKMAN:  Yeah, I made three birdies today -- inaudible -- felt relaxed.   
 The MODERATOR:  Any noticeable differences in the conditions today?   
 CAMERON BECKMAN:  Not really.  I think it's slower than yesterday -- inaudible -- the greens are fast and they are going to stay that way.  It's nice playing in the afternoon when the ball rolls out on the fairways.  It's pretty much the same.  Pins were pretty accessible.  You could make some birdies out there.  Overall, just a great golf course and kind of fun playing on a different grass.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 CAMERON BECKMAN:  Important to strike your ball off the tee -- you can get in the hazards out there.  No. 4, I hit in the hazard, in the trees, had to pitch out and make par.   
 As long as you can keep it in the fairway, I figure the greens are big enough, I can hit a lot of greens.   
  
  Q.  (What do you see as your position heading into the weekend)?   
 CAMERON BECKMAN:  You know, I probably won't be leading at the end of the day, but I'll definitely have a chance.  Again, playing real solid, especially on a course we really haven't played.   
  
  Q.  If you wouldn't mind just going through your clubs, birdie on No. 2.   
 CAMERON BECKMAN:  Actually I hit 9-iron on the par 3 about ten feet and made that.   
 The par 5, I hit on in two and hit it about three feet on 8, birdied that hole both days.   
  
  Q.  (Have you played in México before)?   
 CAMERON BECKMAN:  I have been to Monterrey, played the Nationwide event in Monterrey.  I've never been down here before.  The golf course is awesome.  It's a real nice surface to play on, this paspala grass.  The greens, kind of reminds me of putting on artificial turf so to speak.  I think that the grass -- inaudible.   
  
  Q.  (Did you bring your family down here with you)?   
 CAMERON BECKMAN:  No, I wish I would have.  I'm by myself.  But definitely will have them down here next year for sure.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible)?   
 CAMERON BECKMAN:  I think the pins -- if all the pins were on being about as of greens, so it's playing longer.  And again -- inaudible.   
  
  Q.  If you were to play well and qualify for the Top-64 next year to play in the WGC - Accenture Match Play, would you go there or would you come back here?   
 CAMERON BECKMAN:  No, I'd have to go to the Match Play.  That would be a great achievement to play with the best players all around the world.  You have to really play well to get there -- but the Match Play is for the best players in the world -- it's very difficult to get into.  But I would definitely play there.  But I'll come back here, I love it here.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT