84 LUMBER CLASSIC
September 16, 2005
Cameron Beckman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Cameron Beckman, currently a co leader in the clubhouse hereafter the second round of the 84 Lumber Classic.  Thanks for joining us, two rounds in the 60s, 65 today, great first two days for you.  Start with some opening comments.
CAMERON BECKMAN:  Thanks.  I started off nice today, birdied the first three holes, which kind of got me going.  I ended up shooting 5 under on the back nine, and I guess made a couple of birdies on the back, or on the front, and kind of a pretty easy day, eight birdies and a bogey.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Talk about your season, getting down to the last few tournaments, you'd love to get back in that Top 125.  You're on your way to a good finish this week.  Talk about what you're looking at the last few events of the season.
CAMERON BECKMAN:  This is not the first time I've been in this situation before.  I've played good enough to keep my card, so it's kind of nice to be back in position again.  Obviously I've only made $206,000 this year, quite a bit behind.  But I've been progressively playing better, and hopefully I'll play good this weekend.
Q.  What is it about the course here?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  Two years ago I had a really good chance.  I think I was leading with nine holes to play.  I don't know, I like the atmosphere.  We get treated so well here, it's fun.  I don't know, I just made a lot of birdies on this course over the years, and I certainly enjoy playing it and it's always fun to be here, but I can't exactly pinpoint what it is.
Q.  How has the course played this year with the changes?  They've made some changes.  How is it different from last year?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  Well, remember, they changed it last year, too, so since the first year    the first year we were here I thought it was pretty easy.  The scores are still pretty good this year, but they've made No. 12 a lot trickier.  16 used to be a gimme off the tee, now that bunker is in there.  They've definitely tried to make it tougher.

But the greens, I don't know if they just redid them lately, but they're just perfect.  Obviously they're very firm, but if you get some chances, you can definitely make putts.
Q.  Coming into a place where you've played well before and worrying about keeping your card for next year, what does it do for you mentally, knowing that you've played well here when you're struggling to possibly have to go back to Q school?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  It's funny because yesterday I was 2 over par at one point, made a couple bogeys and then I birdied the next and then holed it on the next hole, so now I'm 3 under par.  At one point yesterday I was thinking maybe this ain't going to be my year.  It's funny how quickly it can change.

Say that again, the question?
Q.  When you've had a year like you have, 181 on the Money List and possibly having to worry about going back to Q school and you come back to a place like this where you've had success, what does it do for you mentally coming to a place where you've saved your card in the past?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  Well, it's a positive.  Like I said, hitting that shot yesterday just turned my whole week around.  We came out quick again today, and I don't know, I don't have a choice; I've got to play well.  And I think sometimes that helps me for some reason.  I wish I could play good in Hawaii so I wouldn't have to do this, but last year I enjoyed the challenge of trying to keep my card, but I have to get rid of that because I don't want to do it every year.
Q.  With the stress level now, what do you do for the next two days to try and keep the level of your game up?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  Not a lot.  I'm not going to practice when we get done here.  I'll probably go home and rest a little bit.  I'm just trying to play really aggressive, not so much that I'm going to go at every pin, but I have a mindset I'm going to try to run the place over every day when I tee off.  I don't have a choice, I've got to keep playing well.
Q.  The first year with the rain washing out the second round, that maybe contributed to some of the higher scores with the lift and place.  The scores this year may approach that the way it's looking now.  What do you think the reasoning is?  They've changed the course to supposedly make it tougher.
CAMERON BECKMAN:  I guess everybody is good players.  If you give some room off the tee and don't have a lot of rough, most of the golf courses can be pretty good.  If you can keep it out of the water here and just drive it good, you can still shoot good scores.  The greens are really firm and you really have to pay attention to where you land the ball.  But I suspect on the weekend with the pins it'll be very difficult to get it close.
Q.  Was the wind a factor today out there?  I saw it gusting pretty good on 18.
CAMERON BECKMAN:  Yeah, we were paying attention.  Some of the holes, like the two par 5s on the back nine, I hit 6 iron into the greens.  That's unusual for those two holes.  It's usually at least a 2 iron or a 3 wood on the first one.  It wasn't blowing too much on the front nine for us, though, not too much.
Q.  Where did they play 12 today, the yardage?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  I hit 6 iron, so it was 188 yards, I think.
Q.  What were you thinking there?  That was one of the major changes.
CAMERON BECKMAN:  I mean, I think it's very visually difficult from the tee, but I made 2 on it both days, so I like it so far (laughter).  I think it's a good hole if you're hitting an 8 iron, but if we were hitting    we were not playing the back tee.  If we were playing back there, it would be a nightmare.
Q.  Is the course playing differently today than it was yesterday?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  I think it's drying up a little bit.  The ball is rolling a little bit off the tee.  Just pretty much the wind was the difference.  The greens are very firm, very firm.
Q.  With your check here two years ago, did that put you in the Top 125?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  Yes.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  If we could touch on your round, eight birdies, one bogey, and as you mentioned, you started on the back side with birdies on your first three holes.
CAMERON BECKMAN:  I hit a wedge into 10 about 15 feet, made that.

Then chipped up on the par 5 to tap in.

I made about a 20 footer on the par 3.
Q.  What did you hit there?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  I hit 6 iron there.

I three putted the next hole from the fringe for bogey.

I hit it about five feet on 15.
Q.  What did you hit there?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  9 iron in.

16, I hit it up and down from the bunker and made about a ten footer.

Then 18, I hit it about three feet.
Q.  What did you hit there?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  8 iron.  That's a perfect example of how firm the greens are.  I probably landed an 8 iron 15 yards short of the pin, 20 yards short of the pin, and I was three feet.
Q.  Then on the front side, birdie on No. 4?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  I hit it about six feet on 4 with a pitching wedge.

No. 5, I hit 6 iron on in two and two putted.
Q.  Any good par saves that kept it going?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  Not really.  I hit most of the greens.  How many greens did I miss?

HENRY DIANA (Caddie):  Three.
Q.  Did you reach 8?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  I hit 6 iron in there.  I hit it just short of the green in a divot and ended up making 5, which was kind of disappointing.  It's an easy chip if it's just in the grass.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Cameron Beckman, thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT