THE INTERNATIONAL
August 6, 2005
Cameron Beckman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Cameron, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at The International.  Looking at your card, you played pretty well on that front side.  20 of your 23 points came on the front side obviously over two days, and then obviously today you had 11 of your 13.  Why don't you just talk about the front nine a little bit and maybe why that's playing easier for you.
CAMERON BECKMAN:  You know, I didn't even realize that.  I've just been so into trying to make points.  I had no idea what you just told me, that I played the front nine really well.

This format is interesting in that I couldn't tell you what I shot either day, and so I really    sometimes when you get in that frame of mind, you play well.  I've played No. 1 well, and fortunately I eagled 6 yesterday, which was a bonus.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Talk about playing 36 tomorrow.  Obviously you're one of the younger players out here.
CAMERON BECKMAN:  I don't know, it'll be interesting.  This is a tough place to play 36 holes.  I'm more concerned about my caddie.

It'll be good.  It'll be fun.  I hope the weather will be good all day and it'll dry up a little bit, things will get a little bit faster, and I think it's going to be a birdie fest.
Q.  Talk about the eagle on 1.
CAMERON BECKMAN:  I hit driver, 3 wood to about 15 feet and made it, kind of came in and kicked left.  Somebody said it almost went in, which would have been nice.  And then that got me to    I just sort of relaxed and birdied the next, birdied the other par 3 on the back and just was rolling.  It just kind of happened quick.
Q.  What do you have going for you the last two days?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  What have I had going for me?  I've been doing everything well, chipping and putting, hitting the ball well, driving it good enough.  It's kind of been different.  This year hasn't been very good for me, and the last two days really feels good.
Q.  Do you remember the last time you played 36 and how you did?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  I haven't played 36 since Pennsylvania, I think, three years ago, and I was leading with 18 holes to play and ended up finishing 5th.  It was interesting.  My back was killing me that week.  This week I feel great.
Q.  I can guess the answer to this, but why is this a tough place to play 36 holes?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  Just the hills, you know, walking up and down the hills.  It's not terrible.  Like I said, if I were carrying a bag it would be terrible in my opinion.  But it's such a beautiful place, it should be fun to play.  I love to play golf, so hopefully things will go well tomorrow.
Q.  (Inaudible).
CAMERON BECKMAN:  I haven't felt real good this week.  I've been feeling kind of uneasy a little bit.  I played better today.  It should be fine.  You know, you just get out of breath a little bit going up the hills, but you recover.
Q.  Is there any advantage to having played this morning, having 36 holes to try to play tomorrow?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  Yeah, I'll probably go home and take a nap and try to get some rest.  It actually feels like it's starting to blow out there a little bit, too.  We didn't have much wind this morning.  Obviously that helps.  We didn't have any yesterday, either, so I would think the better scores would be out of that wave.
Q.  Are there any other courses that you play that are this hard to walk or as hard?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  Yeah, probably in two weeks at Reno.  It's in the mountains.  Kapalua.  There's only a few of them.  If you're playing well, it feels easier.
Q.  Do you have a lot of confidence right now the way things are going?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  I do actually.  I started feeling good this week for some reason, my golf swing felt good.  I started hitting shots like I was thinking I wanted to.  And then chipping and putting has been good.  It's just been good all the way around.  Hopefully it will maintain.
Q.  This uneasiness you've been feeling, is this an altitude thing or a security thing?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  Well, definitely security.  I haven't been feeling too secure about my job.  No, I just have sort of    you get that kind of funny feeling when you first get here, at least I do, but I feel fine now.  But I definitely feel uneasy about my game.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Let's go through the birdies and bogeys and the eagle, starting on 12.
CAMERON BECKMAN:  I bogeyed 12 and 13.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  What happened?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  Missed the green and didn't get up and down.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  And then on 15?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  15, I made about a 15 footer.  That settled me down a little bit.

17, I two putted from the fringe.

1, eagle from 15 feet.

2, I hit it six feet.

4, I hit it about ten feet.

7, I hit it about 20 feet.  I just hit a lot of greens.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Cameron.
CAMERON BECKMAN:  All right.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT