FUNAI GOLF CLASSIC AT WALT DISNEY WORLD RESORT
October 22, 2004
Cameron Beckman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Cameron, for joining us for a few minutes in the media center at the Funai Classic at Walt Disney World Resort.  Great round today, and obviously you should be happy with your play today given your position on the Money List.  Why don't you talk about that a little bit and then we'll go into questions.
CAMERON BECKMAN:  Well, I'm 123 on the Money List right now, so that's been kind of scary.  I got into Orlando last week, and fortunately I've been playing good golf.  Like I said this week, I'm just trying to concentrate on playing good golf, and I figured if did I that, I'd have a chance to keep my card this year and just really play nice golf the next two days.  Hopefully I can play good this week and secure it up.
Q.  On that same theme, looking at where you've ended up over the years on the Money List doesn't necessarily tell me how you got there.  Have you ever done this tap dance before?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  Last year I played well in Pennsylvania and Texas and secured my card, and I didn't play well the rest of the year.  I hurt my back in Pennsylvania.  I I've been to the Tour school a bunch and actually got my card back a few years in a row, but I haven't been in this exact situation.
Q.  When was that?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  2001.
Q.  You said you feel confident coming in here.  A lot of guys can be in that 120 range and feel like they're playing well but it still is on their mind.  Having won out here, does that help you a little bit?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  Yeah, a little bit.  I know I'm going to finish in the top 150 so I'm going to get 20 events next year.  I think the real race is the 150.  When you get in a situation it's easy to focus.  Sometimes at this time of the year you're tired and don't feel like playing, but the last couple weeks I'm real focused and that's why I'm playing better.  I'm comfortable over every shot because I have to be, so that's why my scores are good.
Q.  Why are you in this spot?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  You know, I've made a bunch of cuts.  I've made 19, 20 cuts but haven't played well on the weekends.  My back has been bothering me all year.  That's part of it.  I hate to use it as an excuse.  Last year I almost had surgery, and trying to get used to not feeling great all year has been different for me.  That's a good question, I don't know.  I need to figure that out.

I've been trying to think that I belong playing out here the last month or so, and sometimes I think I'm a little hard on myself and don't really believe I should be out here.  I know that sounds kind of stupid.  I've won a tournament out here, but you know how it is.  It can get you.  It can make you feel like you're not very good.
Q.  Specifically on the back --
CAMERON BECKMAN:  I have a torn disk, and then there's a bottom one that's bulging pretty good.  I'm having an MRI when I get home.  It just happened last year at Pennsylvania.  I could hardly get out of bed for the two weeks, and when I got it looked at, I got an MRI, and it was pretty bad.  It's unfortunate, but I don't know if you know anything about it, but the nerve canal for me is pretty big.  That's not that big, but it's bulging out there halfway.  I guess I'm flexible or something and I can get away with it, but I almost had surgery this year.
Q.  Why didn't you?  What were the pros and cons?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  I wanted to do it, but I heard that you can exercise and do all this stuff, which I've been doing this year, and it's worked.  I'm going to play 30 events this year.  It's just nagging.  It's a pain in the butt.

I get loosened up.  I use a treadmill before I play.  The tough thing this year has been my morning tee times for some reason.  I've played better in the afternoon, and it's just getting loosened up.  For me to shoot 5-under on the front today was awesome.  I was excited about that.
Q.  Part of the morning protocol then?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  I've got to get it warmed up.  I actually got kind of a therapeutic foam just so I could sleep on it for the next few weeks just because it's been so stiff and sore.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Can we go through your card?  You started on 10.
CAMERON BECKMAN:  I birdied 11, birdied the par 5, the par 3 --
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Can you go through like your clubs?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  I've never seen any of that in the paper (laughter).

I chipped to a foot on 11.

12, I made a 30-footer.

Next hole, 13, I made a 15-footer.

I hit it four feet on 15.

16, I hit it three feet.

4, hit it to ten feet.

7, three-putted seven.  I think I hit 14 greens today.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you for joining us.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT