DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2004
Cameron Beckman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Cameron, for joining us in the media center.  Great way to start your week at the Deutsche Bank Championship.  Why don't you talk about today's round, and then we'll go into questions.
CAMERON BECKMAN:  I got off to a great start.  I birdied the first, eagled the second and birdied the third.  So, I was 4-under quickly, which on this course is a nice feeling.

Then I made two bogeys in a row and I guess I made three birdies coming in to get to 5-under.
Q.  Was that the key, getting off to a good start here?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  Well, on this golf course getting off to that kind of start, you know, as hard as this course can play, you know, that kind of just really relaxed me and kind of put me in a patient mode.  I knew I didn't have to do much the rest of the day to have a good score.  Just putted really good today and the score reflects it.
Q.  Mark O'Meara got off to a good start -- inaudible?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  The first hole is just a wedge and you can get home in two on the par 5.  They had a pin back there where you could actually get at it.  I hit a 3-wood about 20 feet and made it.

The next hole, I hit 5-iron about three feet.  So it was kind of an easy little start.  I hit it close on 1 and you know, there's not a lot of opportunities out here.  So when you play the shorter holes, you've got to get them.

The holes on the back nine, you're hitting 4s and 5s (irons) into those holes is tough.  That's what I did today.  Basically like the last hole, I hit sand wedge an inch and almost made it.  Today was just one of those days where I got the opportunities and I took advantage of them.
Q.  Inaudible?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  I think so.  Like the other par 5 was reachable today.  But you get around to 12, 14, those are pretty good-sized holes into the wind, and I think the back nine is tougher.   I was fortunate to get around there with two birdies and all pars and I take that every day for sure.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Why don't you go through the rest of your round.  Did you say you had a 5-iron on 3?.
CAMERON BECKMAN:  I hit 5-iron into 3.

3-wood in 2.

Wedge into 1.

I hit two bad drives on the next two holes and had to pitch out.  Made two bogeys.

I made about a 30-footer on 8.

15, I hit it about six feet.

And then 18, I hit a sand wedge.

But I had some nice up-and-downs in there.  I don't know how many greens I hit.  It seemed like I was putting from the fringe a lot today and just off the greens.  I had a couple nice 10-footers for par, and just feels good to putt good.  These greens are beautiful.  The course is in perfect shape and it's a lot of fun to play right now.  It's a lot better than last year, for sure.
Q.  What were the par saves that you can remember?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  5- and 6-footers for par.  No bombs or anything.  It was a pretty easy round.  I drove it pretty good and just kept it in play all day.
Q.  Inaudible?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  I've only made 416,000 this year, so I'm still outside the 125 marker.  Hurt my back last year at the end of the year and didn't play the last five events.

Fortunately, my back has been feeling great last few weeks.  I've started to play better and feeling better.  Obviously I need to putt a good run on the last -- I'm going to play seven more events.  Definitely don't want to go to Tour School.

I withdrew from Chicago.  It's just been real stiff and I got some lower, the two lower disks are bulging.  Actually, almost had surgery last year at the end of the year but just been working out all year, and it's coming along pretty good.  I've been able to play.
Q.  What was the problem with your back?
CAMERON BECKMAN:  Actually I went to the doctor and he told me, if you don't have any leg pain, don't worry about it.  I don't know if you know much about backs, but when you get the pain down your lower legs, that's when you have problems.

I had it last year at the end of the year and not at all this year.  I think generally waking up in the morning and not trying to see how my back feels, I'm not worried about it as much, I think is what it is.  I had kept feeling like I'm going to be able to hurt it and not be able to play again, and try to get rid of that thought process.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT