84 LUMBER CLASSIC OF PENNSYLVANIA
September 20, 2003
Cameron Beckman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DAVE SENKO:  A 66 today to go with your 67 yesterday; you're tied for the lead.  Maybe just share your thoughts after two days, how you played today.

CAMERON BECKMAN:   I played real nicely the first two days.  I've had one bogey that was a 3-putt and chipped once.  I only had to chip one time, so I hit the ball really well and putted nicely, also. 

DAVE SENKO:  You had six birdies, starting on No. 1.

CAMERON BECKMAN:   Yeah, I came right out of the box and birdied the first two.  I hit a little sand wedge into 1 about 15 feet and made that. 

I hit 8-iron into 2.  Made about a 20-footer.  I hit nice shots on the next three holes and missed them.  The par  5, I chipped that about five feet.

I hit it close on 11, sand wedge a couple of feet. 

I hit the par  5 in two, 16. 

Then I hit it about ten feet on 17 and made that.

DAVE SENKO:  What did you hit on 17? 

CAMERON BECKMAN:   7-iron. 

DAVE SENKO:  And how far was the 2-putt?

CAMERON BECKMAN:   It was 30 feet. 


Q.  How were conditions today?

CAMERON BECKMAN:   I thought it was perfect.  There was no wind -- there was a little wind.  When you get fairways this soft and greens this soft and picking the ball up, it plays pretty easy.  I've had nice control of my ball the first two days and that's been the key.  I hit four fringes and I chipped once.  I've putted from the fringe four times and chipped once and got it up-and-down; when you're doing that, it's hard not to play well. 


Q.  Conditions are probably not going to change a whole lot tomorrow. 

CAMERON BECKMAN:   It's going to be a birdie-fest tomorrow. 

What's the lowest score so far, 8-under?  Somebody here is going to beat that, I've got a feeling.  Like I said, when you've got the guys picking it up and it's playing soft, it's just sitting there waiting.  You've got to putt well. 


Q.  (Inaudible.)

CAMERON BECKMAN:   You know, I haven't played well  -- I don't know when my last  -- it might be a year and a half.  I haven't had one this year.  I had a child in there and I had some things going on and just kind of lost my focus a little bit. 

So actually this week I sat down and just set some new goals. 


Q.  What goals did you set?

CAMERON BECKMAN:   My main thing, it's going to sound kind of weird, but it's to be good again.  I had a nice stretch in 2001 in the end and I played good in 2002.  I was really moving up.  I got to 75 in the world and it was going nicely.  For some reason, it just shut off. 

And I was talking to my dad about it.  He said, "Last time you played good was Colonial in 2002."  So, I guess complacency; just kind of got not as focused with a lot of stuff going on in my life. 


Q.  (Inaudible.)

CAMERON BECKMAN:   Yeah, actually that was the first time I ever got my card was at  -- Valley in 2001, and then I won.  I played good in Vegas.  And then I won the Southern Farm at the end of the year that year, and that's kind of when it started.  Maybe I'll start another streak, too. 


Q.  (Inaudible.)

CAMERON BECKMAN:   Yeah, you know, every time you got it in the fairway on the fringe, you could move it. 

There's a pretty good amount of mud on your ball every shot.  You have to clean it up.  It's not that much that  -- I didn't have casual water once today.  It shouldn't be any problem.  Hopefully it doesn't mess things up. 


Q.  (Inaudible.)

CAMERON BECKMAN:  Most of the guys have played the course maybe only four times now.  So as you get more and more used it, they are going to figure it out.  The greens, it's really hard to tuck the tees off the side of the greens the way they used to.  Most of the time, you are looking at a pin looks like it's in the middle of the green. 


Q.  (Inaudible.)

CAMERON BECKMAN:   That's for sure.  I've never been in the lead for sure.  It's not too often you have to play 36.  This is my fifth year and I've only done it a few times.


Q.  What is it you like about the course?

CAMERON BECKMAN:  It seems to suit my eye.  I had a real nice feeling about it in the practice round when I first played it.  I just enjoy playing it. 


Q.  (Inaudible.)

CAMERON BECKMAN:   I started at 5 ( -under); birdied the first two.  So I don't know, what is cut, 5?  3. 

I told myself before the day, I wasn't even going to think about that.  I wanted to try to get my game  -- I don't have my card this year, so I have to.  Making cuts isn't going to do me any good, or just making the cut isn't going to do me any good. 




End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT