MICHELOB CHAMPIONSHIP AT KINGSMILL
October 5, 2000
Cameron Beckman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CAMERON BECKMAN:  I think I only hit nine greens; got it up and down a bunch and putted beautifully.  I birdied -- I started on the back. Birdied the first hole No. 10.


Q.  How far was that?

CAMERON BECKMAN:  Five feet.  And then my next birdie came on the par 5, I just hit a 3-iron in there, 2-putted.  And then, you know, missing greens just barely close to the pins and chipping up, I didn't make any long ones for par, but I really didn't strike the ball that great today.  I drove it pretty good.  And then birdied two, I hit a 2-iron onto the 3rd hole, chipped up close and made birdie there.  Then I birdied the par 3.  I didn't make any bogeys.


Q.  Would you go through some of those saves for us, please? 

CAMERON BECKMAN:  Just a lot of just off the edge of the green.  I didn't have -- I mean, maybe I had a couple of difficult ones that I hit real good chips on and just I putted awesome.  I am not sure how many putts I had, but that was the whole key to my round today.  Hopefully I can hit the ball better coming in.  It is a good thing there is no pictures on the score card as they say (laughs).


Q.  What is it about putting that makes it such a fleeting thing, you can do what you did today and....

CAMERON BECKMAN:  Putting to me is -- I mean, you can do so much when you are putting well.  Like today I didn't strike the ball that good, but I still shot 5-under par.  Didn't make any bogeys because I was able to make the 2s, 3s, 4s for par, I made a couple pretty long ones, a couple of 30-footers for birdie today.  Which basically I was trying to 2-putt both of them and they just went in.  Sometimes when you don't try to make them you make them.  Putting is strange like that.


Q.  Where were the 30-footers?

CAMERON BECKMAN:  On both par 3s on the front.


Q.  What did you hit in at 5?

CAMERON BECKMAN:  7-iron. 


Q.  How much confidence do you have coming off back-to-back tied for 14th, best finishes ever?

CAMERON BECKMAN:  Yeah, it is a real good feeling.  I think that is why I had a good round today.  Missing greens doesn't get me out of whack, I don't -- I am just -- I need play well to keep my card and so I am just trying to keep a good attitude and the putting is just -- I have putt so well the last month or so and that has been my key.


Q.  Have you ever played -- I see here 20, 28, 14, 14, is that your best stretch just in golf?

CAMERON BECKMAN:  Yeah, that is my best stretch out here for sure.  Last year I didn't make that much money and got off to some kind of a poor start this year and I have made, I don't know, like I don't know how many cuts in a row I have made.  Not in a row so much, but I have made like 11, 13, 12 something like, that -- so it has been a good stretch since I missed the first 7 cuts, so...


Q.  What were your thoughts after missing the first seven?

CAMERON BECKMAN:  I injured my neck in the beginning of the year and that kind of through me out of whack a little bit.  My number in the Tour school took a little bit of a beating because I wasn't  playing and I had to withdraw a couple of times. After getting my card back this year I kind of felt like I was going to play well this year, which is now kind of start -- I am getting some confidence going again.


Q.  Did you consider yourself a streak player in the past before this last month or so?

CAMERON BECKMAN:  I haven't played that well on the Tour until lately.  I have never been known as real streaky player, more consistent play, well, on the mini-tours and the Tour schools and things like that.  I have never thought of myself as a real streaky player.


Q.  What did you do last year by the way?  Did you play anywhere?  I see you played a couple of events BUY.COM's or did you play all --

CAMERON BECKMAN:  I played out here last year.  I had my card last year out here.


Q.  You made 21,000?

CAMERON BECKMAN:  No, I made -- 173 on the money list, I am not sure.


Q.  What have you learned from all that and two years of basically losing your card, you know, what did you learn from that?

CAMERON BECKMAN:  Like a day like today last  year I would have been so out of whack, mentally, if I am not striking the ball well.  This year I have totally freed myself up to play golf.  That is probably what I have learned and playing well the last few weeks, I have been in the last few groups playing Saturday and Sunday and you just -- it is a comfort level.  You get used to playing in situations and I am just having a blast.  I am having a lot more fun than I used to.  If I can last like last year, it is just so much outcome thinking and where am I; where am I on the money list -- I am trying to play as strong as I can to get most out of the year as possible.


Q.  With the big purses, it is more of a mental thing; I have got to keep my card more than a financial, I need to make money to eat and live?

CAMERON BECKMAN:  See, that is the thing, it's kind of a misconception that you don't -- I mean, when you make enough money the eating and the hotels  -- like last week if like I am struggling out here it's really not the case.  Because of the purses and stuff there is not -- you are not really thinking about, well, I have got to play good to eat, stuff like that.  I think that is more mini-tours and if you don't have any money.


Q.  Nowadays somebody could finish 150th on the  money list four years in a row and be a millionaire?

CAMERON BECKMAN:  That is right.  That is exactly right.  I mean you are going to spend 150 probably.  You still are going to make 100,000 if you made 250.  It is hard to say that you whatever think about eating, you know what I am saying?


Q.  You didn't look like you were starving.

CAMERON BECKMAN:  No (laughs).


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT