FRYS.COM OPEN
October 20, 2009
Cameron Beckman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: Cameron Beckman, defending champion of the Frys.com Open, thanks for joining us for a few minutes. You've had a chance to get out and experience the course. Talk a little bit about the state of your game now as you are heeding into the week trying to successfully defend your title and maybe a couple thoughts on the shape of the course.
 CAMERON BECKMAN: The shape of the course, I was surprised, was a little wet. The fairways are pretty soft. I'm sure it'll dry out, but it's in great shape. The greens are perfect. I almost think when they get them cut a little more they might be better than last year. Real, real healthy. 
 My game is okay. (Laughter.) You know, after taking three weeks off after the FedExCup I didn't do much. You know, I didn't play real great last week, but hopefully I can get something going tomorrow and have a chance to defend the title. 
 DOUG MILNE: Thank you. With that, we'll open it up and take a few questions. 

 Q. What impact has getting that victory last year had on you?
 CAMERON BECKMAN: You know, I think it took a long time to win the second one, and I think that impacted me in that, you know, probably made me feel a little more comfortable out here. 
 You know, I went through some tour schools in between 'em and had some rough years. You know, outside of having a two-year exemption, don't have to worry about that next year. 
 This is my 11th year out here, so I've played a bunch out here now. I think that just kind of -- I'm not worried so much about my job, so to speak. You know, that's mainly what it was. You know, that's the trick about being out here. 
 For some of us, if you're not playing well, you're trying to keep a job. 

 Q. How is your game right now compared to where it was last year when you came in?
 CAMERON BECKMAN: Well, last year I think I missed the cut in Vegas. I think was pretty down and out, to be honest with you. I was going to tour school for sure, and -- you know, it's weird. I don't know what happened. I really don't.
 I played really good the first two days, and played even better the second two days. Actually, my good friend sitting back there, you should ask him. He probably remembers better than me. I think it was just a little mental and a little -- couple mental things. 
 Of course I putted great. I changed putters that week and just felt like I was gonna make everything, and that's basically what I did. 

 Q. What about now?
 CAMERON BECKMAN: I'm probably swinging at it better than I was and doing everything better, so we'll see. I like the course. Just playing nine holes feels good out there. I remember coming in last year thinking, I feel good on this golf course. 
 You know, some courses for horses, I guess they call it. I was thinking to myself when I was out there, I don't know what it is. I was trying to figure it out. I like the shape of it, I guess. 
 DOUG MILNE: Like I said, short and sweet. We appreciate your time, and best of luck this week. 
 CAMERON BECKMAN: You got it. You bet. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT