BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 2, 2019
Brad Cox
Nanci Roth
Larry Roth
Jaime Roth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: The winner of the Breeders' Cup Filly & Mare Sprint is Covfefe, and we've got the whole crew up here. I'm going to take you left to right. We've got Jason Litt, and he helps to purchase horses for them and manages the stable for LNJ Foxwoods.
And we have Larry Roth and Alex Solis, who helps manage the stable. And Jamie Roth, who is the driving force, and winning trainer, Brad Cox. And Nanci Roth as well. Congratulations to all of you. These are the co-owners of Derby Country House.
Brad, I'd like to start with you, get your impressions on the trip and performance.
BRAD COX: It was a bit of a trip, but Joel broke well, asked her a little bit, get involved, and it was great, two horses broke and showed the way, was able to work his way off the rail and off the backside, and I thought we were in great position quarter mile and couldn't get any better. Saw 22 and 1, whatever it may have been, and real pleased at that point.
THE MODERATOR: Nice filly ran what would be a winning race. What does that say about your filly?
BRAD COX: We thought she would be tough today given she loves this track. And at the half mile pole starting right off us, I thought this filly could be tough, -- she could turn for home, she could make a race of this, and she did, obviously.
But Saratoga looked like she got too far back, wasn't able to make enough ground Covfefe and Serengeti. She ran a great race today. Joel said after the race our filly kept digging in. He didn't get after it real hard, but he said: When I asked her a little bit, there was more in the tank.
Good to know. She's a fantastic filly. She's one of a kind. She has unbelievable amount of talent and speed, and very smart, very, very intelligent filly.
THE MODERATOR: You said you were expecting a big performance today. What did she show you the last few weeks, both at Churchill and after she got to Santa Anita? She really looked the part.
BRAD COX: She is so push-button. Leading her last three races, trained her exactly the same way, leading in all three races. She was telling us the whole time she was ready, and just training so well. And her works are just fantastic.
And big thing with us is how she comes out of them. And she just -- I could tell the last few days how sharp she was. She's really classy in the paddock, never turns a hair. We walked out of the paddock, I walked to her, and threw her ears up and looked to the grandstand. You could tell she had her game face on for sure.
THE MODERATOR: Jamie, Covfefe is certainly one of the fan favorites of the Breeders' Cup this year. How do you explain her popularity with fans? It's a combination of both talent and perhaps the name that people have embraced, but how do you explain it?
JAMIE ROTH: I think it's been personally fun for me.
I think as most people know, I got into sport because as a fan of Rachel Alexandra. So to have a horse that's now a Breeders' Cup champion that so many people love, and it just means the world to share a really special horse with fans. And for them to get to see the performance, especially in California, and a lot of people don't get to see her often because she's on the East Coast, it's pretty cool.
THE MODERATOR: Questions?
Q. Brad, could you expand on this year for you. You've already -- you win with Monomoy Girl last year in the Distaff, and this year two Breeders' Cup wins. Just talk about this, another dynamic Breeders' Cup?
BRAD COX: I don't know. Someone asked me this morning if I really think about it, look back. And you don't. You just get up and do it every day. Just try to do by each horse you have and evaluate their talent, try to put them in the right place, win races, keep clients happy, pay bills.
It's a job. But I enjoy it. I love it. Someone told me a couple months ago, they said I'm not -- they told me, You're not in the horse business, the horse business is in you. And it's very true. I love what I do.
Q. My follow-up question, this is for the Roths. If you could expand on this year for you all. You're standing up here now, and then as well at the Kentucky Derby. I'd love to hear your thoughts on this amazing year from Country House to Covfefe.
LARRY ROTH: It's been an exceptional year. Last year we win this race by a nose with Anonymity, and started in January, Brad and Alex, Jason had a plan with Covfefe. The game plan was followed perfectly. Covfefe did everything we asked of her.
She's an exceptional horse, a great horse. She won from the 1 post, which is the first time a horse ever won this race from the 1 post. She's a three-year-old. Second time a three-year-old has won this race. We're so proud of Covfefe.
Going back to Country House, that was another incredible day. We were thrilled -- we were thrilled coming in second, and the inquiry came up and the objection, and so it's 25 minutes were the longest 25 minutes we had to wait for. And then obviously we got the decision was correct and we won with Country House.
So it's been just incredible this year between Country House, Covfefe, and all the other horses we have won with this year, and I have to congratulate Joel Rosario for an incredible ride today.
Q. Jaime, would you want to elaborate?
JAIME ROTH: Horse racing has ups and downs, and the lows are tough, but the highs will always surpass the worst low. And the high of Country House, even the way it all happened, and then the test at Saratoga, which was unbelievable.
But this moment right now is the best moment I've ever had as a horse owner, and, I mean, this is what it's all about, being on this stage, winning the championship race of the category your horse is in. And we have a great team. Could never do this without Jason or Alex.
They're the ones who make this all work. Like my father said, they put together a game plan with Brad. Followed it to the T. Everything. And she did everything we asked of her. And, again, also Joel's ride was amazing. And Brad, he's humble. He's not going to say anything, but he's a star.
I want to say a star in the making, but he's already made it. I'm just so happy to have him on our team.
NANCI ROTH: I don't know what Brad told you, but whatever he told them justifies it, comes from the trainer. And she's just an amazing horse, and I will tell you we were bummed when they pulled the post, the 1 post position. But we all had faith in her, and she came through. And she's an amazing, amazing filly, and we're just so lucky to have her.
Q. Jaime, on the NBC broadcast you held up a peacock feather and twirled it. I didn't catch the backstory on that. Could you tell us about that?
JAIME ROTH: Three weeks ago we were in Lexington visiting some of our yearlings, and we were at Atlas Farms, and they had a peacock there that was up in the rafters of one of their barns. And there was this beautiful feather on the ground, and I picked it up, and I said, I feel like this is good luck. And we happened to be in the Winner's Circle. I'm going to hold it up.
It was with me in the pole position, and I was like I don't know if I want to bring it today. But I did. And if they're watching, they're laughing right now that I brought it with me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT