ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 29, 2010
Christian Ponder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Jimbo said yesterday that you had your elbow drained yet again. Is this going to be an issue for you, and how are you feeling right now? 
 CHRISTIAN PONDER: No, I don't think it'll be an issue. I think the biggest thing was just getting that fluid out so I could practice all week. I mean, I feel a lot better. It was hurting a little bit after the game. It was definitely swollen, they got it out. So I feel pretty good now. 

 Q. How do you keep it from tightening up during the game and how much of a factor is the pain when you're actually playing? 
 CHRISTIAN PONDER: I mean, there isn't a whole lot of pain. I think adrenaline has a whole lot to do with it. I mean, it doesn't really swell up again until the end of the game. It's really just avoiding hits on it is the biggest thing. But it's football, so it's pretty much impossible to do. I don't know, I'll wear some padding on there and wear some sleeves to hopefully restrict it swelling up too bad.

 Q. I wanted to ask you about Rodney Hudson. Just your perspective on what he's meant to that offensive line and if you think he should be considered for the ACC's Player of the Year this year. 
 CHRISTIAN PONDER: Yeah, he should definitely be considered for ACC Player of the Year. He's definitely the best player on our team the past several years. The guy is just so consistent in what he does and never makes mistakes and most dependable guy on the line and definitely a leader. He makes my job a lot easier with some of the things that he's able to do on that line. 

 Q. When the season started or before the season started, there was a lot of Heisman hope surrounding you, and as the season went along, there's been some injuries, there's been some tough losses, so I'm kind of wondering what your feeling is on this season because you did make it to this game, so there's a positive there. Has it been a tough year for you? 
 CHRISTIAN PONDER: I mean, it hasn't been too tough. We keep winning, so that's a good sign. I mean, personally obviously I would have liked to play a little bit better. I've been battling a lot of injuries and it's been a little frustrating at times. 
 For us to be going into the ACC Championship game, I couldn't wish for anything better. That's kind of the reason I came to Florida State was to compete at the ACC Championship level, National Championship level, and for us to finally get here definitely makes those frustrations go away. 

 Q. I'm curious how much you remember about your sort of first experience with Virginia Tech coming in I think after Drew got knocked out of that game I think as a freshman in 2007 and kind of a rough day. What do you remember about that experience? 
 CHRISTIAN PONDER: Yeah, I remember going in and everything was moving so fast and the environment up there was pretty crazy. You know, I kind of -- that was the first playing time I ever saw, and I competed well early in the game and made some throws and made some plays here and there, and then obviously at the end it went south. But I think that was kind of a turning point for me in my career where I got into the game and got some playing time and realized, hey, I can do this. The following year I was able to take over the starting job.
 I mean, it was definitely a tough environment to play in and a good team playing against. 

 Q. It seemed since the end of that North Carolina State game, obviously the game didn't end the way you wanted, but since then you've turned up your play to take it to another level even though you haven't had full strength. How were you able to shrug off the way that game ended and what's the difference in your play the last few weeks? 
 CHRISTIAN PONDER: Yeah, that game was definitely frustrating for us. We're two plays from being 11 and 1 right now, and I think since the NC State game I started taking it upon myself to play better. I mean, I was doing a lot more in practice, studying a lot more film, and finally things started clicking for me. I started getting confidence and it kind of started snowballing. The more confidence I got, the more comfortable I was, and I just started playing better.

 Q. Also, this team has had so many ups and downs the last few years. With all the adversity you've undergone, how much sweeter would it mean to end the year this way with wins over Florida and Miami and winning the ACC Championship?
 CHRISTIAN PONDER: Oh, it's been an unbelievable year. This senior class that I'm a part of has been through a lot, seeing the coaching changes and the academic scandals and everything, and since I've been here four straight losses to Florida, and for us to finally end my home career, to beat Florida like we did, to beat Miami like we did down there and to be able to go to the ACC Championship game is pretty sweet. A great way to end a career here. 

 Q. What's y'all's take on Virginia Tech? Florida State ruled this league for so long and since they've come in in '04 they've won the title in '04 and this has been their fourth appearance in the championship and they've won 46 out of 56 regular season games. Are they the premier program in the league right now? 
 CHRISTIAN PONDER: Yeah, I would definitely say so. They're always competing at the ACC Championship level and they've been to pretty much every ACC Championship game. So I think they're ahead of us right now, and they've competed really well the whole year this year and obviously struggled a little early on but have really turned it up. Ever since those first two games. 
 I mean, right now they're undefeated in the ACC, so they're definitely the best team in the ACC right now, and this is going to be a tough game for us. 

 Q. Some people thought y'all were dead in the water after losses to NC State and North Carolina, but you rebounded to beat Clemson, Maryland and a big win over Florida. I've got to believe this team is oozing with confidence right now. 
 CHRISTIAN PONDER: Yeah, we are getting a little confident. I think those experiences we went through against NC State and North Carolina kind of taught us a lot and helped build character and bring us together. I think we learned from those games, and it's paid off. We've been playing really well the past three, four games, but the bad thing is it doesn't really carry over to the next game. We've got to prepare this week for a tough opponent and kind of take -- don't forget the process that got us here and be ready for a tough game.

 Q. Would a win in this game Saturday make Florida State relevant again? I think y'all started on that path with the big win over Florida, but this could really pound that in I would think? 
 CHRISTIAN PONDER: Yeah, I mean, I think so. I think obviously we're trying to get ourselves back on the map and become relevant again. To beat Florida and win the state of Florida and make it to the ACC Championship game, it would be big if we won it. Obviously we want to make it to a BCS Bowl, and very few teams get to make that. So if we do, hopefully people would start to take us a little bit more seriously.

 Q. I'm sure when you showed up at Florida State you figured you would find yourself at a BCS Bowl of one type, right? 
 CHRISTIAN PONDER: Yeah, that was one of the biggest reasons I came to Florida State was to be able to compete at that level and make it, and unfortunately we haven't done so. 

 Q. You've done a lot in your time at Florida State. What does it mean to be a part of this team and its rebirth under Coach Fisher?
 CHRISTIAN PONDER: Yeah, it means a lot. Like I said, the senior class has been through a lot, been through a lot of ups and downs, and for us to have a year like we've had and even ups and downs during the season, but for us to finish like we are and win the state and make it to the ACC Championship game, those are goals that we set prior to the season and the goals that I've had coming to Florida State, and for us to finally get there is kind of a relief and excitement at the same time. 

 Q. Tech comes into this game with a top-15 scoring defense nationally. Have you had a chance to watch any film on them to look for any potential weaknesses?
 CHRISTIAN PONDER: No, I haven't had time to watch film yet. We will in two hours, start watching film and breaking down and seeing what they do. 

 Q. As far as Jimbo, replacing Bobby Bowden is obviously a pretty tough thing to do, but you guys set the bar pretty high in his first year. Are you surprised that he was able to do this so fast? 
 CHRISTIAN PONDER: No, I wasn't surprised. Being around him for the three years prior to him taking over, we know what he's demanded from this team and what he's demanded from me personally. He's got a lot of high expectations. He's going to make sure that this team reaches those expectations, and he did a great job of preparing us all year and pushing us to get where we are. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT