US OPEN
August 27, 1997
Sandrine Testud
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you share with us some of your feelings after the victory? 
 
 SANDRINE TESTUD: Like I said before, I'm happy, you know, about this victory. I mean, I
beat her last week in Atlanta, but it's always a different match, you know, in a Grand
Slam event, playing on centre court. So I think I played pretty good the first set today,
and I was a little bit tired at the beginning of the second set. It was kind of difficult
to play good tennis today, because it was so windy, and I made many mistakes in the second
set. I was a little bit slow, and she came back good. I mean, she had some -- she hit some
good winners. And the beginning of the third set was very important. When I broke her at
2-1 and we had this unbelievable rally at 2-1 on my serve, I think it was important for me
to win this game, because I didn't want her to come back, because it could be tough for
me. And I made this game. I serve pretty good on this one. So it was 3-1, you know. It
give me a little bit of air, you know. And then it was easier after. 
 
Q. Sandrine, you've had two big upsets at the last two Slams, this one and Wimbledon.
At Wimbledon, I think you said that you attributed your great play to love. Are you going
to stand by that or can you tell us more? What is it exactly that has allowed you to push
through?
 
 SANDRINE TESTUD: I think you prove that life is also important, if you want to play
good tennis, it's both important. But, you know, I've been working hard the last few
months, and I think it's just a pay off. I have much more confidence on my game, on
myself. I think it makes a difference, you know. I've been able to beat Top 10 players in
the Grand Slam. You know, when I get on the court today, I really think I can win, you
know, against everybody. So I think it makes a big difference, you know. 
 
Q. So the biggest difference from, say, a year ago, is simply confidence, it's nothing
physical?
 
 SANDRINE TESTUD: It has to do with the work I've done the last winter, you know,
physically and also tennis. But for sure I think there is nothing better than to win
matches, you know, and win matches against the best. It gives you a lot of confidence. It
looks, I think, much more easier after. 
 
Q. Do you have the confidence you can perhaps go all the way in a Grand Slam now with
the wins you've had against Monica, Arantxa, and now Iva?
 
 SANDRINE TESTUD: Well, actually I'm not looking -- I'm looking round after round. I
have no idea against who I'm playing next round. So everybody is tough to play, you know.
Friday is going to be another day. You never know what's going to happen. But I'm going to
come down on the court and be ready, you know, to win this match. Then we see what can
happen, you know. Everything can happen. 
 
Q. You were limping when you came into the locker room. Did you hurt your foot at all?
 
 SANDRINE TESTUD: No. I have problem. I have Achilles problem. It's been bothering me
for many months now. I just have to take care. Nothing much I can do. 
 
Q. What is it?
 
 SANDRINE TESTUD: I have Achilles, sore Achilles. 
 
Q. Which leg?
 
 SANDRINE TESTUD: Both. Make it easier. 
 
Q. Sandrine, did you get a feeling that she kind of let down a little bit after that
long rally where you were able to win that point?
 
 SANDRINE TESTUD: Maybe, you know. Like I said, I don't know if it was this point
especially, but this game was really important, you know. I was serving at 2-1. It was
important to me to go 3-1 and not let her come back, you know. Maybe she lost this point,
she was maybe, you know, maybe a little bit disappointed. And she gave me few points after
that, well, that helped me a lot. But I repeat on this game, I really served good. I was
concentrate. And, of course, to win this rally, I mean, was a good one. But mainly I think
the game, the whole game, was really important. 
 
Q. Did you think that rally was ever going to end?
 
 SANDRINE TESTUD: Oh, I was so tired. I couldn't breathe anymore. I mean, it can happen,
you know, sometimes. It's always good to win it, you know. 
 
Q. Have you had any rallies that were longer than that, at the French?
 
 SANDRINE TESTUD: I think a couple of times in my career to have rallies like this. For
sure it's always better to win these kind of rallies than lose it for your confidence. 
 
Q. With the players you've beaten this year, like Monica and Iva, do you find that
other players have a new respect for your game and for you, and have people treated you
differently?
 
 SANDRINE TESTUD: Well, I don't know. For sure maybe when they know they going to play
against me, you know, they're maybe more scared or maybe they're going to say, "Maybe
I have a bad draw," whatever. You have to ask them, I don't know. But, no, people are
nice to me. I mean, I don't think it change anything. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT