CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF SANEX WTA TOUR
November 15, 2000
Sandrine Testud
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You've played her a number of times, both of you have been off of injuries, how well do you think she looked to you today? 

SANDRINE TESTUD:   Well, I didn't really pay attention.  I was more concentrating for how I looked today.  I haven't played a match.
 

Q.  Her game? 

SANDRINE TESTUD:   Her game is still the same.  She served good today.  The court is fast, so, you know, she took advantage of it.  I had opportunities, but, you know, it was just tough to be here after two months.  She just played a little bit better than me.
 

Q.  Do you think she has a good chance to win this title again? 

SANDRINE TESTUD:   Well, it's going to be  -- it's going to be tough, because, I guess, you know she didn't play for a while, also.  And there is many other players that are playing good right now.  So, you know, it's tough competition.  It's a tough tournament.  But anything can happen. 
 

Q.  How much stronger did she look to you than when you played that very close match in San  Diego?

SANDRINE TESTUD:   What do you mean?
 

Q.  How much better did she look to you today?

SANDRINE TESTUD:   Well, I don't think we played that great today, compared to San  Diego the last time we played.  We come -- both from injury, and, you know, it was tough to get back, you know in the tournament like this, such a big tournament after such a long time.  So, you know, not just great tennis today, just try our best and that's what came out. 
 

Q.  Exactly what was wrong with you?  What was your injury? 

SANDRINE TESTUD:   I had a stress fracture in my ribs.
 

Q.  How is it now? 

SANDRINE TESTUD:   It's good.  I'm happy.  (Laughs).  It's gone. 
 

Q.  How did you hurt your ribs? 

SANDRINE TESTUD:   I have no idea.  But I start to feel pain when I played my last match at the US Open against Hingis.  I start to have pain.  I didn't know who it was, and I found out after a few weeks, and I just couldn't play anymore. 
 

Q.  Do you still have expectations in the doubles tournament?

SANDRINE TESTUD:   Yes, great expectations, because my partner just pulled out.  (Laughs).  So, it's going to be tough for this year.  For the first time we qualify, but, you know, everybody is tired, and it's going to be for next year, hopefully. 
 

Q.  How long were you actually unable to use a racquet? 

SANDRINE TESTUD:   I tried to practice again after four weeks, and after a couple of days, I start to have pain again.  So, I had to stop another three weeks.  I start to practice like five days ago, six days ago.
 

Q.  Where are you going to pass your holidays? 

SANDRINE TESTUD:   I'm not going on holidays anymore.  I have two months off.  I'm just going to go home and start working again. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT