WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2000
Sandrine Testud
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Questions for Sandrine.  
 
Q. What did you feel when you heard you had drawn Anna Kournikova in the draw? Does she
present any particular problems because of her popularity?
 
 SANDRINE TESTUD: Not at all. Just that is a tough first round. I mean, she's a good
player, even if she is maybe more famous for something more than her tennis. She's still a
good player. Of course it was not an easy first round.  
 
Q. Why do you think that you didn't play to your potential today?
 
 SANDRINE TESTUD: Well, I had a couple opportunities in the match. I got broke in the
first set. I didn't make it. Then we had the rain delay. I start again slower than her.
You know, it's a pity because I had a few occasions in this match and didn't make it.
That's what made the difference. 
 
Q. Did you find the crowd intimidating, because they were with Anna, weren't they?
 
 SANDRINE TESTUD: No, I didn't feel it. I think they were having a good time, you know.
You know, it's just playing another opponent. It was a tough first round. I knew it. I
came on the court to win, and nothing else.  
 
Q. Do you feel that perhaps Anna isn't given the credit she deserves as a tennis player
because so much is focused on her looks? 
 
 SANDRINE TESTUD: That's the press, you know, that does that, not the players. We know
that she can play good tennis. She's known for some other things. I think she deserve to
be -- she's a good player. Nothing else to say.  
 
Q. What are her strengths as a player?
 
 SANDRINE TESTUD: She's a good baseliner. She has very deep groundstrokes. She has a
probably better forehand than backhand. She mix it up, try to come at the net. I think she
has a good game for grass. She played good a couple of years ago here.  
 
Q. How far do you have to blame yourself for not making more advantages of the first
serve?
 
 SANDRINE TESTUD: That was the main reason today. She served pretty good at the
beginning of the match, then she start putting more second serve in. The second serve is
very weak, but just didn't step in enough and try to get advantage of that. That's
definitely her weakest part, you know, the second serve. I made too many unforced errors
on this point. That's what make a lot of difference.  
 
Q. What would you say is peculiar about her than playing any other girl on tour?
 
 SANDRINE TESTUD: I don't understand the question. 
 
Q. Is there anything in particular when you play her in public, in her game? Is she
somehow different from all the rest of the players in the way she appears to play, appears
to walk, to take breaks or something?
 
 SANDRINE TESTUD: I'm getting on the court, I know I'm playing Kournikova, but I'm not
looking at what she's doing beside the tennis court. I'm just trying to be myself, play
against an opponent, try to win the match. I'm not looking and say, "My God, it's
Anna Kournikova." What am I supposed to say? "Oh, she's beautiful." What? I
don't understand. I'm playing another player. She's a good player. She just have to be
where she is, point, that's it.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT