TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 28, 2000
Sandrine Testud
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 WTA: Questions, please. 
 
Q. At what point in the match did you realize that maybe Jennifer was tired and that
her match with Serena took too much out of her?
 
 SANDRINE TESTUD: You know what, I was tired, too (laughter). Well, you know, it was
just a matter of we were both tired, I think, today. We had tough matches yesterday. It
was just a matter of getting out there and trying to give your best. I knew she was tired,
but I was very tired, too. I didn't start very well the match. But when I came back, you
know, I saw that I was just more patient than her today. She was trying for too much. It
was just so windy out there, you know. It was important to keep the ball in play. That's
what I've done much better than her today, I think.  
 
Q. She was tired, and you took advantage of that situation, you moved the ball back and
forth. 
 
 SANDRINE TESTUD: Like I said, you know, it was very windy out there today. Probably
it's difficult to play good tennis. I just think I was more concentrate on keeping the
ball, you know, in play, and didn't make too many mistakes compared to what she's done.  
 
Q. Can you talk about your next possible opponent? You have the winner of Lindsay and
Petrova, I believe. Can you talk about both of those players?
 
 SANDRINE TESTUD: Well, they are both -- I mean, Lindsay, we know a lot about her.
Petrova I know also. She's a tough opponent. She's a tall girl. She has a very good serve.
It's not going to be easy for Lindsay, but Lindsay has been playing unbelievable in the
last few years. I'm expecting maybe to play against her. I'm really happy, you know, to be
where I am now. I'm going to get out there. You know, I'm going to have a day off,
finally. I'm going to try to rest as much as possible. You know, I'm going to try to play
my best tennis. I've beaten already Lindsay a few times. She's very tough. You know, she's
probably the best player in the world right now. But I have nothing to lose. You know, I'm
just going to try my best.  
 
Q. You've been consistently in the Top 15 over the last couple of years. What do you
think you need to make that next jump into the Top 10 and stay there for a while?
 
 SANDRINE TESTUD: Well, like I did here, for example, I've been playing tough matches
first round, and yesterday. I didn't play great tennis, but I won those matches. You know,
that's what make the difference, you know, between the better player and maybe somebody
between 10 and 20. So hopefully I can keep doing that and maybe have a chance to get
better. 
 
Q. When Jennifer tied it at 3 in the second set, what do you think was the key to you
getting back? I think you broke her a few games later. What was the key to finally put her
away?
 
 SANDRINE TESTUD: I start to get a little bit tight at 3-1. I knew, you know, I could
win the match. She just -- I just let her play a little bit too much. I was waiting for
the mistake instead of, you know, keep trying, you know, to play the ball and try to make
her run. When she came back, you know, I just say, "Okay, well, let's start again
like I play the whole first set." I tried to be aggressive when I had the chance and
tried to make her, you know, hit a winner or something, okay? That's what I've done, I
just been more consistent than her today.  
 
Q. Do you see any similarities between your career and that of Tauziat, the fact that
you're playing your best tennis now in your late 20s?
 
 SANDRINE TESTUD: I'm much younger than Tauziat (laughter). I'm very disappointed that
you're saying that. No, I mean, what is doing Nathalie is unbelievable. I probably won't
play that long. You know, everybody has a chance. Not everybody's like Hingis or Capriati,
those players that play great when they're 16. It took me a long time. I start on the
tour, I was 18, so I had no chance to be No. 1 when I was 16. You know, I'm just happy to
be where I am now. I'm enjoying my tennis. Hopefully, I have a couple of more years to go
and have fun.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT