WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 26, 2021
Kevin Na
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  KEVIN NA:   It's important in pride.  Obviously I knew that I was going home, but we're playing for a lot of points out here.  Every world ranking point matter, FedExCup point, and it's a shot for me to take down world No. 1.
 Honestly this week -- yesterday I had a lot of back issues.  I had my trainer come out and stretch me.  Not that I'm making excuses, but I felt like today was the day I was most focused.  I think it was because playing against world No. 1 I knew I had to bring it today, and on the back nine I did.
 Q. There was a conversation you had on 11 with Dustin.  Can you talk us through why that happened.
 KEVIN NA:   Yeah, so, I mean, I had about a two and a half, just inside three feet for a par uphill; it's straight putt, and his lipped out and everybody was like Ah, and he had six inches and obviously it's good, but I hadn't said anything and he whacked it.
 And I was like -- and I froze there and looked at Kenny and I wasn't going to say that's a penalty, you're going to lose the hole.  I was going to say, you know what, that was good anyway.  I didn't want to be over that putt and be thinking about that.  So I called him over and said, Hey, I'm not going to take the hole a from a you but I just want to let you know before I said something you whacked the ball.  But I'm going to give that putt to you so we'll call it a halve and go to the next hole.
 That's what we did.  I think it's the right thing to do.  I don't want to say -- we all know he can make a six inch putt, so I think I did the right thing.
 Q. Did that alter the dynamic of the match?
 KEVIN NA:   No, we were going back and forth.  I was 2-up early, lost it.  He was up.  We were trading punches.  Some good birdies out there.  I made some good putts.
 No, I don't think so.  Yeah, and I birdied the last two.
 Q. So you feel no animosity or friction between you guys.
 KEVIN NA:   No, no, no.  We took it well.  Dustin is like, Hey, look it's your call.  I said, no, it's a half.  That's a par.  It's a par.  Yeah.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT