THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 23, 2010
Kevin Na
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q. Tell us about how tough it is out there. It seems a little bit windy at times.   
 KEVIN NA: The wind and especially just the greens. Just the greens are so firm, and they tucked these pins out here where you have to be in the center of the green a lot of the times. It's hard to get it close, and you've just got to take advantage of the short holes where you hit short clubs in to get to the holes.   
 But some of these holes, 25 feet is a good shot. I think that's why the scores aren't as low as they can be.   
  
  Q. You being here, you qualified; how important is it to go on from this? Is it enough just to qualify or do you just want to get right up there?  
 KEVIN NA: Well, it's nice to be here. Now I'm exempt into all the majors next year. I got here last year, and I set a goal to make sure I come back this year. But I'm here, I'm playing well, and I feel like I'm playing good enough to win.  
  
  Q. This is a unique tournament. There's nothing like it. There's a potential huge jackpot of money at stake. There's only 30 people in the field. There's no cut. Talk about how different it is as a player being out there with all these different things going on.   
 KEVIN NA: Well, there's only 30 players, but they're the 30 best players in the world. It's not an easy field. It's a strong field. But there's a fact -- there's only 30 players, no cuts, I guess you could say the worst you can finish is 30th. I guess it's kind of a nice feeling, but you're out there to win.  
  
  Q. Is there a different vibe to it?  
 KEVIN NA: I think guys are a little more laid back. That's the way I look at it.  
  
  Q. Considering course conditions are you pretty happy with your -1?  
 KEVIN NA: Mm-hmm, I was pretty happy with my round. I think it could have been a couple better. What I saw, what I felt out there today was if you played a really solid round of golf, 4-under was out there. 5 would be an exceptional round, but 4 is out there.  
  
  Q. How tough do you think the setup was on this day one?   
 KEVIN NA: It was -- it can be tougher, believe it or not. It wasn't easy. I'd say it was tough, but it wasn't impossible.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT