ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 25, 2010
Kevin Na
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tell me about the golf course, 4-under par is a good score?
 KEVIN NA: Definitely, very windy. The wind did calm down late in the back nine, but you have to place your ball in the fairway. These roughs are very thick, and the greens are getting firmer. So fairways are a premium so you can put some pin on the ball.
 Overall, just a tough golf course, especially with the wind. The scores, they made it into a par 72, so a few more under, but I think at the end of all four days, it's not going to be like 20-under. It's going to be somewhere around the low 10s, I believe. 

 Q. Just because of the way the rough is, and as firm as these greens are, they are not running stupid fast?
 KEVIN NA: No, actually you're right, they are firm but they are not ridiculously fast. But I think that's maybe what's helping the scores stay low. 
 I actually left, on 17, I had about a 12-footer for birdie, and it was dead in the heart. I mean, it was a good ten inches short of the hole, and I was shocked how it didn't run out. Some of the times, I actually left a few 25-, 30-footers, 3 1/2, four feet short, the downhill slider. It's not that fast, so that's a good thing. 

 Q. Part of your game you're happiest with so far?
 KEVIN NA: I'm driving the ball well. I was struggling off the tee earlier this year. My putter was good, and I got two Top-10s right off the start, and actually my putter went sour and I started hitting it good, now I think both are coming along great. 
 I think I'm peaking at the right time for the Masters. 

 Q. What do you think of 15? 
 KEVIN NA: Definitely makes the hole a lot tougher, but actually there was nothing wrong with the tee up in front, because all of the guys, most of the guys were hitting a 2-iron off the tee. 

 Q. What did you use? 
 KEVIN NA: Well, when the tee was -- before it was 3-wood for me but now with the tee back, you have to hit driver. It makes that hole tougher, but I don't think it's the greatest change. I like all of the changes out here, but I think that's the only one I did not like. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT