DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 6, 2009
Kevin Na
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   KEVIN NA: I go out there with this attitude like I've got nothing to lose, just try to stay right there and just one at a time and go with a clear mind. I think that's what I'm going to try to do.

 Q. What's been the alternative in the past, too much on your mind?
 KEVIN NA: I've played a lot of good golf on Sunday where I was right there and just fell a little short. Was I putting too much pressure on myself? I don't know, but that's just the attitude that I'm going to go out with tomorrow. 

 Q. There aren't too many guys at age 25 who can be described as wily old veterans, but a pair of 66s on Saturday and Sunday. That's usually a great weekend. 
 KEVIN NA: Yeah, thanks. It's kind of weird because we started on Friday this week, which is a little different, but it's nice. Tomorrow is Monday, but we're still playing, so it feels like almost a rainout. But I'm going to go out there tomorrow and play hard and see if I can get that W.

 Q. I distinctly remember a couple years ago at Sony in Honolulu, you said every time I'm in contention going into the final round something bizarre happens; the wind blows 50 miles an hour, we get a monsoon blowing in. Perfect weather will be a perfect time to notch your name on your first PGA TOUR championship. 
 KEVIN NA: Yeah, the weather is supposed to be great, so I'm looking forward to that. I think the only time the weather has been good when I was in contention on Sunday was in Phoenix this year, and I was one shot short. If I can do one shot better, I'll be great.

 Q. Describe your year. You've been in contention a number of times. Is it going to take a win for you to be happy?
 KEVIN NA: I'm very satisfied with the way I've been playing this year. Eight Top 10s, that's great. That's probably close to what I've had all my life. Maybe a little less than before. But anyway, yeah, I think right now, the only thing missing in my resumé is a W. I think I'd take that W over eight Top 10s. 

 Q. Why this year? What's going on in the maturation process with your game that's making you a better player now than at any other point?
 KEVIN NA: You know, I don't know. I think a little bit of everything, a lot more comfortable out there, hitting a little straighter, putting a little better. I've got a veteran caddie on my bag, Kenny Harms, and he's been a lot of help. That's probably making me feel more comfortable out there. A couple years I struggled after my injury, but I think my confidence is coming back, and I think that's the key.

 Q. Kenny was saying he thinks it's time for you to win. What do you think about that?
 KEVIN NA: I think so, too, whether it's going to be tomorrow or next week or hopefully soon. I think as soon as I get my first win, I think more will start coming. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT