THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 14, 2004
Kevin Na
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KEVIN NA:   I missed three cuts in a row.  Coming into this week I had a little different attitude.  Last week I just     fifth week in a row, and I didn't want to be on the road.  I just wanted to go home.  I had almost stopped caring.  But this week I said, you know what, I'm tired, but I'm just going to grind it out, try my best and go home happy.
Q.  Are you going home happy?
KEVIN NA:   Yeah, I am.
Q.  You're not going home, are you?  Top 10?
KEVIN NA:   I can't get in Bay Hill.  It's an Invitational.
Q.  Can you talk about     you bought a dream?
KEVIN NA:   Yeah, he sold it to me for a dollar.
Q.  What was the dream?
KEVIN NA:   He said someone gave him a hat.  He said no, thanks.

He said, "take it."  He said, all right, so he took it.  Woke up and in the dream, when you translate it, that's like someone giving you a crown.

So he said     came up to me this morning and goes, "You got a dollar?"  I go, yeah; give him the buck.  He goes, "You just bought my dream."
Q.  Is that another Korean tradition, buying dreams?
KEVIN NA:   You can buy dreams, yeah.  He explained it to me.
Q.  Are you confident and comfortable out here?
KEVIN NA:   I don't know about so confident, but I feel like when I'm playing well, I can do all right.  But this week, today, I was actually surprised how calm I was.  It was just like when I won our TOUR Championship in Asia, I'm right there to lead, but I just don't feel it.  I was just so comfortable.  It's weird.  Maybe because I was playing so well    that was 2002.  I didn't win anything last year.
Q.  Money List?
KEVIN NA:   No.
Q.  3 under through 7, how many more chances did you have?
KEVIN NA:   I had a lot of chances.  8, I thought I made it from 20 feet and missed it.

9, I almost had a chance and 3 putted and had a 6 footer coming back for par.

10, I had about an 18 footer for par.  I was in the fairway bunker.  I hit the lip, came back in and got it out about 18 feet and drained it.

Next hole, I had another 18 footer for birdie.

Next hole was about a 12 footer up the hill.  I thought I made it and I started almost walking and just didn't have enough speed and just missed it.

Good 2 putt on the next hole.

14, got a great up and down.

15, I had a chance, left it short.

16, I thought I made it.  Burned the edge.  17, I missed that green by a yard.
Q.  What was the distance on the 3 iron?
KEVIN NA:   I had 240 to the hole, downwind.  You catch that right side and you get it up the hill, you can get it close.  I thought it was good.  It went in the bunker.  Went out about 12 feet by the hole.  I didn't read it right.  Played too much break.
Q.  You start the day eight back, when did you start checking the scoreboard?
KEVIN NA:   First time I saw the scoreboard was on 9.  I was in like third place.  I said, it's looking pretty good.  I said to myself, "Three more and you're going to win this for sure.  Two more and you've got a chance."  But I didn't get any coming in.  Looked like I might have needed just one or two.  But you know, when it's your day, those putts will fall in.  I guess it just wasn't meant to be.

But I'm just happy the way I played, a Top 5 finish, that's pretty darned good.  It really helps me loosen up for maybe keeping my card this year, something like that.
Q.  Playoff is not out of the question.
KEVIN NA:   Oh, it's out of the question, trust me.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT