BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 21, 2004
Kevin Na
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Talk about your round today.

KEVIN NA:   It was shaky on the start.  It was cold this morning.  I was shaky, making a bunch of pars.  And I got to, what was it, 15, the par  5  -- no, it's 14, the par  5.  I hit a good shot and it spun off the green on the fringe and I 3-putted.  If you are make bogeys on the par 5s, it's not good out here.

Parred the next hole.  And I get to 17 and I blocked one and it hit the rocks.  Luckily it didn't hit the side of the rock and go in the water on the other side.  Somehow it hits a rock that's kind of like this, hits this side, that side and comes down into the bunker I chipped it in for two. 

After that, I played well and I got three of the par 5s coming in, 2-putted both of them, made birdie.  That's all of my birdies there. 

Then made a putt on 8 for birdie, about 12 feet. 


Q.  Still feel like a rookie?

KEVIN NA:   I've got 30 more events to be a rookie.  I don't feel nervous at all, especially today playing with the amateurs.  I had a great time.  I have never been so not nervous.  I was just  -- felt like it was just another practice round.  I was like, God, am I playing a tournament here?  I'm having fun talking to these guys, it was great. 


Q.  Looks like it was a good group. 

KEVIN NA:   Yeah, nice guys.  Played great. 


Q.  Is this your rookie event?

KEVIN NA:   I played last week.  I did all right.  Played all four days, which was good. 


Q.  Were you a little more nervous last week?

KEVIN NA:   A little bit, but it still wasn't bad.  I think I was more comfortable than I expected to be.  On the weekend I was 1-over, but it was all right.


Q.  You're obviously a sharp guy.  You skipped college.  Was it a planned deal in looking back now?  Did you do the right thing?  Do you have any regrets? 

KEVIN NA:   I still don't know.  It's one of those things, you look back, if I did this in my life, what would have happened; if I did this, what would have happened.  It's really interesting if you think about it.  Right now it looks pretty good.  I know I did the right thing because it's what I wanted to do.  I think that's more important than what it comes out to be.  If you do what you want to do, then you have no regrets.




End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT