FORT WORTH INVITATIONAL
May 27, 2018
Kevin Na
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What a bookend for you:  62, 61.  You know that shot on 18 almost went in.  
KEVIN NA: Yeah, I knew it was for the course record; I knew I had to birdie the last to tie it.   
I had a beautiful 9-iron.  Drew it in there, turned to the left flag.  It's a little dangerous.  Obviously anything left goes in the water.   
So pitched it two yards right.  With that hook spin coming in nearly went in to about ten inches.   
 Q.  I was so impressed you weren't trying to protect out there; you were trying to get deeper.  Tell me the 40-footer at 14.  
KEVIN NA: It was 30 feet actually.  Swinging hard from right to left, and as soon as I hit it I had the putter up and I just started walking it in.   
Just had that feeling.  As soon as I hit it I knew I made it.   
 Q.  I was impressed that you would try to work a draw into that flagstick at the 15th.  I said, He's going for it now.  
KEVIN NA: Yep, yep.  I was kind of in between clubs.  Kenny convinced me to hit one less.  I hit it -- wind was off to the right, so I started right of the flag, outside of the green, and turned it in to only about five feet left of the pin.   
I think that was the shot of the day.   
 Q.  Absolutely.  As I said, I was really impressed that you would go for that flag.  You made 381 feet in putts this week; 130 feet in this final round alone?  
KEVIN NA: Yeah, I putted great first round and final round.  Second round I putted awful.  I went back to my putter I played with last week in round three and then I putted great today.  That putter only lasted one round, a good round.   
But I'm very pleased.  My putting has been kind of up and down this year, but I had a great putting day today.   
 Q.  I don't know if it's going to be enough for you to win, but what a lot of momentum heading into the summer season.  
KEVIN NA: Definitely trending the right way.  Hopefully this week gets me into the U.S. Open.   
 Q.  Comments about where your round.  Amazing round.  
KEVIN NA: Yeah, I played amazing today.  I struck it beautifully.  Made a ton of putts.   
You know, on some of these putts that, you know, are two-putter going in.  When things are going right, those fall in.   
Round one and round four, today, it felt like it was Ground Hog Day.  I actually did one better and I'm very pleased way I finished this week.   
 Q.  Talk about the finish on 18.  Almost an eagle.  
KEVIN NA: Yeah.   
 Q.  Did you know that was...  
KEVIN NA: Yeah, I really wanted to birdie 18.  I wasn't protecting it because I felt like -- I knew that one more was tying the course record, and I really wanted to tie the course record.   
Hit a beautiful tee shot with a 3-wood.  Roasted it out there.  Nice draw.   
And then obviously that left pin fits perfect for my eye.  Went off the right; hit a hard 9-iron.  Drew it to the pin, and, man, I wish that went in.   
 Q.  You mentioned tying the course record today.  What did that mean to you?  
KEVIN NA: You know, first round I was one out of it.  I was thinking, One of these days I'm going to get a chance to shoot the course record.  I didn't think it would come on Sunday.   
 Q.  What was different about today as opposed to the other days?  
KEVIN NA: I think I played better today.  I thought the course of playing a little bit more tougher than the first round.  I think today was a better round.  Obviously one better, too.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT