U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 15, 2017
Kevin Na
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You said that you liked the scores?  
KEVIN NA: I do.  It's a great golf course.  It's a good design.  It's a long golf course, but the shorter hitters somewhat have a chance, because the deep fescue, you've got to keep it out of the fescue.  If you hit it in there a couple of times, you'll get a double.  It doesn't play as long as the yardage books.  I drove it great today and I think that was the key to a good round.   
 Q.  How happy are you?  
KEVIN NA: Very happy.  You shoot 4-under in a championship, you've got to take that.  I thought the afternoon always played tougher.  I'm very pleased.   
 Q.  Describe the 7th hole, the situation with the spotters.  
KEVIN NA: Yeah, well, I hit one.  It actually wasn't that bad of a drive.  I hit it literally a yard into the fescue.  And I was lucky to find it.  I wanted to thank the volunteers for spotting my ball and finding it.   
And I looked at it and asked my caddie for a wedge.  He said, No chance.  I called it unplayable, two club lengths out of the rough, made bogey, and I was okay with that.  Everyone has to hit in there during the tournament.  And sometimes you're going to get lucky and you're going to have a shot and sometimes you're just lucky to find your ball.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
KEVIN NA: One time.  I didn't even try.  There's some spots, but the spot where I was at, I was just lucky to find my ball.   
 Q.  When you see the number posted by Rickie before you go out, and you see that, what does that do for you, as you start your round and see all those red numbers?  
KEVIN NA: Well, it shows you that it's out there.  I think 7-under is a bit ridiculous.  But there was definitely under par out there today.  Greens were holding.  There was a slight breeze, not to affect it.  But I thought overall it was playing pretty fair.  It will be interesting how they set it up on the weekend.   
 Q.  In the wake of your social media post, (indiscernible) out there.  Did you notice it?  Do you think it was the appropriate thing to do?  
KEVIN NA: Yeah, I think their concern about guys losing too many balls, that affected pace of play.  And also some guys -- some of the players maybe getting hurt trying to hit out of there.  I think they made the right call.  I think people -- some of the guys took my social media post kind of the wrong way.  If you read my post, it says I love the design.  I was just trying to show what we have in some spots.  And fairways are generous.  I said all that.  But I guess people don't like to read (laughter).   
But I just tried to show what it is.  And there are some spots where they're really brutal.  And I was just trying to show that.   
 Q.  Do you regret it?  
KEVIN NA: No, I had fun.  There were a lot of guys supporting me out there.  They got a kick out of it.  A lot of players were saying thank you, they mowed the fescue because of me.  Hey, can you tell them the course is too long, they'll move up the tees.  The players get it.  And I had a good time.   
 Q.  What does it mean to you to get 4-under in the afternoon today and go out early tomorrow?  
KEVIN NA: I think mornings are obviously, you know, softer greens, less wind.  But it's still a tough golf course.  You have to go out there and hit your shots and make some putts.  I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT