CIMB CLASSIC
October 31, 2015
Kevin Na
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just your thoughts on your round of 64 for today?
KEVIN NA: I played very well today.  I got off to a hot start, made some good putts.  Couple missed putts at the end, but overall, very pleased with how I played.
Q. And you've been playing well the past few weeks as well.  What's been the key for you so far here?
KEVIN NA: Well, making some putts and then hitting it well, so it's a good combo.
Also, I don't know, I feel pretty comfortable, which is nice.  I got a little -- I keep getting a little tired at the end of the round from being jet lagged a little bit, but besides that, the last three weeks I felt very comfortable, very confident and I think that's been a big key.
Q. Finish here tied second as well, so obviously you must like playing on this golf course.
KEVIN NA: Yeah, last year, I was right up there until the end.  Losing that ball on 17 that kind of cost me the event.
But it was a great week.  I love this golf course.  Malaysian fans have been very nice to me.  And also, from my first win being here when I was like 19 at Kota Permai, so I have some great memories at Malaysia and I can only thank Malaysia for that.
Q. (No Microphone.)
KEVIN NA: Eight times.  Eight times in my career I finished second.  Well, I got to keep the streak alive, don't I?
(Laughter.)  Worst case, I win, right?  If I don't keep the streak alive.  That's the attitude I'm trying to have.
Q. Do you know what's been holding you back since your first win in 2011?
KEVIN NA: I've had some tournaments that I threw away and I have some tournaments that I feel like I got beat.  I don't know, I've been unlucky a few times.  But you know what?  The last few weeks I've never felt so comfortable coming down the stretch.  And I don't know if the viewers were able to see that, but I've been getting a lot of compliments from my friends and coaches and family members, friends, saying that how comfortable I looked.  I think that's been the difference, but comfortable, but still finished second.  Maybe I'll feel comfortable finishing second or worst case, I win.
Q. Talk us through that birdie on the 10th hole.
KEVIN NA: Yes, I haven't probably missed a shot all day until on 10.  I was trying to hit a cut off the tee with a 3-wood and just came over the top.  It was still going to cut, to the left edge of the fairway, maybe just left rough.  But the tree's there.  So I caught the tree and second shot pulled it again, hit the cart path, I was in the trees, I had nothing.
Before my caddie even said anything, I pulled a club out I said, back off, I'm going to hit this.  And I hit it through the trees and I figured I get up-and-down here it would be a good five and flew it right in the hole.
Q. What club did you use?
KEVIN NA: 60 degree wedge.  It's one of those things, when it is your week, things like that happen.
Q. The only bogey on number 14.  Did that distract your rhythm?
KEVIN NA: Was that 14 or 13?
Q. One of those.
KEVIN NA: Yeah, you know, I hit a decent shot in there, it's a tough hole.  I left it about somewhere around four feet and there was a little bit of a distraction, you get that, you're going to get that close to the end of the week, but you got to forget those and move on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT