FRYS.COM OPEN
October 17, 2015
Kevin Na
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great bunker shot there at 18.  Six birdies, an eagle.  Things went well for you out there today.  
KEVIN NA: It did.  I struck it really well and gave myself plenty of opportunities.  The course was there for the taking a little bit today and I took advantage of it.   
 Q.  You had a good year last year.  I know you didn't win, but a good, solid year for you.  What are you looking at coming into this year?  
KEVIN NA: Every year your goal is to make it to Maui and TOUR Championship.  Last two years made it to TOUR Championship without a win.   
So this year's goal is to win, but if I don't, still make it to TOUR Championship.   
 Q.  What do you like about this course?  
KEVIN NA: It's not a bomber's course.  You have to shape the ball, which I like doing.  Short game is a big part of the game out here on this golf course.   
It's been good so far.   
 Q.  Big round today.  Just assess it.  What happened out there today?  
KEVIN NA: I got off to a good start.  Shot 4-under on the front nine and slowed down a little bit and made a bunch of pars, missed a couple opportunities.   
But nice birdie on 15, and then I had an unbelievable second shot on 16 to have a good look at a short putt for eagle.  I finished nicely.   
Nice 64.   
 Q.  What was working so well out there?  
KEVIN NA: I was hitting the ball very well.  I was giving myself plenty of chances.  A lot of putts around ten feet for birdie, and I made my share.   
 Q.  Is there something about this time of the year, the fall?  I know you won in Vegas.  You get geared up differently?  
KEVIN NA: I think the temperature.  It's comfortable.  Not as hot.  I don't know.  Maybe -- it's kind of around when I was born maybe.  Maybe that's got something to do with it.   
 Q.  Looking ahead to tomorrow, what are you looking forward to?  
KEVIN NA: Tomorrow I bet they're going to set up the golf course pretty difficult.  There will still be plenty of good scores out there, so keep the foot on the gas pedal.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT