MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2015
Kevin Na
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Well done today.   
KEVIN NA:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   After a 74 yesterday, what was the mind set, because you've been through this four times before, you know a 74 means you have to do something special today, right?  
KEVIN NA:   I figured the cut was going to be 2‑over.   Not thinking so much about the cut, my goal was to shoot something in the 60s, get it back under par for the weekend.  
And I got off to a ‑‑ I hit it over the green on 1, looking like it was dead.   I had an unbelievable chip to about six inches and that kind of got my round going.   Sometimes a big save on the first hole gets one of the best rounds going.   
I hit a lot of great shots out there and I was able to put my ball in position where I could make some putts.  
And that 13th hole, that 5‑wood was awesome.   
   
 Q.   What was your tee shot?  
KEVIN NA:   Driver off the tee and in a perfect spot.   I needed to hit a high 5‑wood and fly it to the top and stop it.   And as soon as it came off the club face I knew it was going to be good.   Somewhere, I would say, about 10 feet or so.   
And then it was a quick slippery putt and I hit it perfect, right in the center and won a little crystal.   
15, I was in the fairway, I had to hit the perfect shot to get there.   I could have laid up, because a 6‑under, if I make another three, make a birdie coming in, then I had a chance at, an outside chance at a course record and when you have a chance at something like that, you got to go for it.   I hit it a little thin and it came up short in the water.   But it was nice to bounce back with a birdie on 16.   
   
 Q.   Any especially long putts or special shots on any of the birdies today?  
KEVIN NA:   Let's see.  
   
 Q.   2, 3, 5, 8, 9?  
KEVIN NA:   All short.  
   
 Q.   16?  
KEVIN NA:   All short.   
   
 Q.   Just tap‑ins or?  
KEVIN NA:   No, they were somewhere within 10 feet.   I hit a lot of shots close.   
The putt on 16 it was, oh, I would say it was close to 10 feet and I probably hit it about two feet and it rolled all the way to the hole and you could just see the Titleist sign going over and over.   I had no doubt it was going to get there, that's how quick of a putt it was.  
   
 Q.   What happened today versus yesterday?  
KEVIN NA:   Yesterday my irons were a little off.   I'm still a little under the weather, a little sick, and I need to get some rest and hopefully I can keep it going tomorrow and on the weekend.  
   
 Q.   You have a cold?  
KEVIN NA:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned the first couple times here, this is your best round by far‑‑  
KEVIN NA:   I had a 12th place finish here.   That's not too shabby.  
   
 Q.   No, no, but you had a 68 on Sunday, but today was ‑‑  
KEVIN NA:   The first few years it's a learning curve.   You can't expect to play well out here the first year out here.   You don't know how to play some of these putts to these pins.  
And after first few years I was like, oh, you know, I get it, I see how to play this golf course.   After that, I've played better.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT