THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
June 1, 2014
Kevin Na
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   People out studying on the back nine, I thought, looking up at some of those boards.   What were you thinking as that back nine developed in terms of the number?   
KEVIN NA:   I made the turn‑‑ I was at 4‑under and I'm think at 9 I said I have to bird this hole, make 5‑under and I've got a chance to shoot 65 or better.  
And I birdied 9 and I hit it to about a foot, maybe less than that.   And I made the turn, I had a great feeling.   I just said par 5.   Birdie both par 5s and have another one, and I figured 64 was in the picture at the turn.   
And that's exactly what I did.   I almost felt like I could have got one more.   I had a putt on 11 for an eagle that was like ten feet.   And I thought I made it; didn't go in.   Putt on 12, it was a slippery one, but I thought I had a chance there.   
But overall I'm very pleased how I finished.  
   
 Q.   I know you wanted to squeeze a birdie in out of the stretch.   I know how disappointed you were that ball chased all the way in the bunker at 17, but when you put four‑four on the card, knowing what the guys still have to face down the stretch, I know it was still a good finish for you.   
KEVIN NA:   Oh, definitely.   And 18, very difficult, obviously creek down the left.   I hit a great drive.   I got the hardest part done and unfortunately on the way down there was a bit of a cotton that flew over my ball.   I suppose I hit it fat.   But I was able to get a great up‑and‑down.   And posting 4 on that last hole and 8‑under, I still think I got a chance.  
   
 Q.   Go hit some putts and chips?   What are you going to do?  
KEVIN NA:   Get some lunch first.   
   
 Q.   Something was clicking.   What was it?  
KEVIN NA:   I hit the ball great today.   And obviously I was struggling with the putter, actually, going into today.   The putter didn't feel right.   I even thought about putting a new putter in play this week.   
And I've got a couple of putters in the locker, I was messing with it, and just didn't feel right until today.   Actually putter felt really good.  
   
 Q.   Just when you get out, I mean, didn't even feel good‑‑  
KEVIN NA:   No, I felt better as the week went on, but I started seeing my lines better.   My line‑‑ well, seeing it with my eye where my putter was starting to match, and that was a good feeling.  
   
 Q.   Funny game that way.   
KEVIN NA:   It is.  
   
 Q.   When you get going like that, just what's the feeling when you're out there?  
KEVIN NA:   Feel like you could birdie every hole.   And every hole is not a birdie hole out here, but it sure felt that way.   
And par 5s, I got three out of four par 5s in two‑‑ yes, I got three out of the four par 5s and basically had three legitimate chances for eagle and two putted all of them.  
   
 Q.   When you walk off the course, do you ever look back say:   I'm a little surprised that just happened?   Like going in, I would not have expected that?  
KEVIN NA:   Yes and no.   Obviously my goal was to shoot 67 today.   And once I made the turn at 5‑under, I felt like 8‑under was the number to post.   And I was very pleased to post it.  
   
 Q.   What was it like coming home with 17 through the bunker and then 18 after the missed shot?  
KEVIN NA:   17 I couldn't believe that ball went to the bunker, obviously 3‑wood is not enough club for me to make birdie.   It'd be way too far back for that tucked pin.   And I just tried to smooth the driver, and I caught it perfect.   
And I wasn't worried about it until it started‑‑ it landed and it just kept rolling.   I must have got a hard bounce and it rolled just in the bunker.   
It was not an easy shot out of that bunker.   My caddie tried to make it sound like it was an easy shot:   Oh, no worries.   It's in the bunker.   It's fine.  
(Laughter).   
KEVIN NA:   I hit a great shot out of there.   
The putt was such a slippery putt I couldn't get aggressive with it.   I was trying to die it in the hole, and I hit a good speed putt.   And it was one of those that's almost impossible to make.   And I was pleased with 2‑putt par.   
And 18 was ‑‑ obviously the tee shot was the hardest part of the hole.   I hit a great drive down there.   I was very happy.   That right‑to‑left wind sets up perfect for my draw.   
I guess I wasn't committed and backed off, and then the next time I got over it I was committed.   On the way down (indiscernible) the way down a cotton kind of just flew right over my ball and I lost my focus and I fatted it.   And I was fortunate that it stayed in the fairway.   
And I hit a great chip up there, and then that four and a half feet, that downhill, I mean, you could have four, five feet coming back easily.   
But as soon as I hit it, I hit a perfect putt and it was a good feeling to see that ball go in.  
   
 Q.   Speaking of focus, once you get a label in golf or in life it's hard to get rid of it.   It looks like you really have mixed things up.   I mean, it's just ‑‑ you've worked at that and it looks like you‑‑ do you have to move faster between shots?  
KEVIN NA:   No, no, I think I did pretty good today and all week.   Obviously I'll have weeks when I struggle more than others.   But I feel like overall it's been pretty good.  
   
 Q.   When you're playing better, does it make it easier, harder?   
KEVIN NA:   When I was struggling, I was playing pretty darn well.   So, I mean, I went through a phase where I couldn't play and I was playing fast.   So it really doesn't equally match up.   I don't know.   
   
 Q.   We'll see where this ends up, but to play this well at this tournament‑‑  
KEVIN NA:   I'm very pleased.   Regardless of what happens.   I think I just got myself in the U.S. Open, which is a great feeling.   I figured 5‑under was the number to get myself in the U.S. Open, but I'll take 8.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT