MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 14, 2013
Kevin Na
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Is this one of those things where you play golf long enough, things like this are going to happen?
KEVIN NA:   Things like what? 

Q.   When you play golf long enough, are things like that going to happen, like at 12?
KEVIN NA:   On 12?   Yeah, I mean it happens.   I went for the flag, obviously you're not supposed to, but I'm back of the field, trying to make a birdie, maybe a 1.   I hit a bad shot and I wanted to try it again and hit another bad one.   And there was no point in me going to the drop zone. 
Plus, the drop zone it's actually a very difficult shot with the right pin.   You have no room to work with.   You're better off reteeing.   Sadly, I hit three bad swings in a row, actually four, the last one was no good too, but it is what it is.   Trying to pull off a shot that is maybe a little low percentage, but I got nothing to lose.

Q.   Did you use the same club?
KEVIN NA:   Yeah, all the same.

Q.   What were you hitting?
KEVIN NA:   8‑iron. 

Q.   Do you think you're going to have to shut it down physically for a little bit here now.   That must be disappointing. 
KEVIN NA:   Every day it got harder and harder.   After Friday I thought that it wasn't good.   But you know what, the nice thing is I got four rounds in, made the cut, so I'm pretty proud of myself for making the cut with the condition I'm in.   So hopefully I'll find myself in the Masters again.

Q.   Do you feel in any way that you speeded up your routine with each shot you hit into the water?
KEVIN NA:   No, I felt like I did the same thing.

Q.   You have speeded up definitely. 
KEVIN NA:   Well, I know the shot, I don't have to go through it all over again. 

Q.   Do you have any flashbacks with Houston with something like that happening?
KEVIN NA:   No. 

Q.   What was your yardage and did you, at least the first one, did you have some issues, any issues with the wind down there?
KEVIN NA:   Yeah, you know, it was a solid, I had hit a solid 8‑iron, just left of the flag, and put it back in the stance a little bit to try to get extra distance.   And you put it back in the stance, it's harder to square the club face up.   And that's what I did.   I tried to basically hit ‑‑ I didn't change the shot, I tried to hit the same shot over and over again and it just wasn't happening. 

Q.   Given how you're feeling, was it like the good news is you made the cut, the bad news is that you made the cut. 
KEVIN NA:   Yeah, I guess.   You could put it that way.   This is a special place and I love coming here.   Any time you get a chance to play four rounds at the Masters, it's great. 

Q.   Would you have played this week as you were progressing if it was any other event?
KEVIN NA:   No.   No chance. 

Q.   In regards to the pain or the uncomfortable necessary of the back, how similar is it to what you had in Puerto Rico?
KEVIN NA:   Puerto Rico was obviously, it was, I couldn't play.   It was better than Puerto Rico.   Obviously I had a month off.   Friday was very close to Puerto Rico, but the guys in the physio here did a great job, obviously the guys on the PGA TOUR, and they were able to help me get through all four rounds.

Q.   If you have to miss the PLAYERS Championship, how disappointing will that be?
KEVIN NA:   Well, the PLAYERS Championship is one of my favorite tournaments.   I've had some success there.   I finished third there one year, had a chance, and obviously last year I had a chance, I had the lead for 60 holes or something.   But there's going to be many PLAYERS Championships in my life, so I'm not too worried about it.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
KEVIN NA:   On the par‑3?   No.   I don't think I have.   Yeah, there's always a first time for everything. 

Q.   Just so you know, Bubba did too. 
KEVIN NA:   Did he really?   Well, that makes me feel a little better.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT