MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2013
Kevin Na
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Wanted to get some general comments about your round today. 
KEVIN NA:   I played very well.   Especially the back nine.   I felt like I made one bad mistake on 9 that cost me a double bogey, but I turned around and on the back nine I played very solid. 
I was able to eagle 15.   I hit the best drive I hit in here in four years and I had 6‑iron in.   And I made a great putt.   And Woosie made an eagle too, so we halved with an eagle.   So we had little fist pump, a little pound there. 
So I had a great time out there.   This is a special place that I love coming to.

Q.   And the conditions, how did the course play?   Was it hard, was it fast?
KEVIN NA:   You know, it was somewhat receptive, the greens.   The wind are starting to pick up, I know the weather's going to start changing, so it will be interesting how the golf course changes with this weather. 

Q.   I was in the bleachers on 8 there and I didn't see where you were, but how good of an up‑and‑down was that?
KEVIN NA:   That was probably one of my top three in my life.   I mean, I hit ‑‑ I hit it left off the tee, I guess it caught the bottom of the tree and went straight in the bushes.   I was lucky just to find the ball.   These guys, they had spotters out there and they did an unbelievable job to find my ball.   I would have never found it if it was just our group. 
And I called unplayable, and I had somewhat of an opening and I didn't even walk up to it, I had no clue.   I just trusted Kenny, my caddie and he just said, hit it here, 95 yards, and I said okay.   And I hit it 95 yards and I looked up and it was about seven feet.

Q.   How big of an opening was it when you got there?
KEVIN NA:   I would say it was about a four yard opening. 

Q.   Were you confident that you could pull it off?
KEVIN NA:   Yes and no. 
(Laughter.)

Q.   How long of a putt on 15?
KEVIN NA:   I would say about 20 feet.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT