THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 29, 1996
Tommy Tolles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 TOMMY TOLLES: Yeah, just kind of carrying on from last week.
 Fortunately not carrying on from Sunday's round, but from the
first three.  Little bit disappointed off the 18 green after everything
was all said and done, I was pretty pleased with the entire week.

 WES SEELEY: Take us around this day.

 TOMMY TOLLES: Played two holes this morning, already hit my tee
shot on 8 -- on the 8th hole yesterday and had about 20-footer
for birdie, and just mediocre pars on 8 and 9.  And started again
this morning on the front 9, and I think 2 is my first birdie.
 I hit a good tee shot down the fairway, and 2-iron almost in
the right bunker, pin high.  Hit a good chip up there about a
foot from the hole and tapped it in.  And 4 was my next birdie;
good tee shot down the middle and hit a sand wedge about six feet
 below the hole and made that putt.

 WES SEELEY: 6?

 TOMMY TOLLES: 6 hole was playing into the wind today.  It was
playing downwind in all the practice rounds and downwind yesterday,
so it was kind of an unfamiliar hole to me.  I just kind of was
going to play it with a 2-iron or 3-wood all week long, and today
I played it aggressively, hit a driver, got it down there about
125, 30 yards from the green; hit 9-iron, hit it about two and
a half feet from the hole.  So, got everything going now.  I hit
a poor 5-iron and on the edge of pot bunker; wasn't actually in
the sand.  It was in the grass.  And had a really, really strange
stance and no green to work with, and got pretty lucky, somehow
chipped it in.  So that was a big emotional boost shot; was only
about 25 feet, but it was a pretty difficult one.

 WES SEELEY: Came around and birdied -- 2 pars and birdied
12.

 TOMMY TOLLES: 12, I hit a very poor tee shot about 25, 30 yards
left of the fairway, but I had a great angle from the pin and
I could actually see it. Hit a sand wedge from about 90 yards,
trying to keep it under the limbs of the trees and hit it about
20 feet. Thought I had left the putt short, and last couple of
 rolls fortunately it went in.  And next hole was playing downwind
today and it had been playing into the wind the first few days,
and hit a good solid 7-iron; probably the best shot I hit all
day about seven or eight feet from behind the hole; hit a real
good putt there.  Just I think a lot of people are going to miss
that putt to the right today.

 WES SEELEY: Gave one back at 14.

 TOMMY TOLLES: 14, I hit 2 good shots.  Hole was playing pretty
tough today.  Hit 5-iron about 25 feet, and got a little careless
with the first one; ran it about six or seven feet by, and then
missed it coming back.  15, I hit a good iron shot, 7-iron from
about -- I think it was about 160, and hit it right over the top
of the flagstick down into a swale, hit a really good putt coming
over the ridge. Had a lot of speed on it.

 WES SEELEY: How far was that?

 TOMMY TOLLES: 30 feet, 25 feet.  Then on the par 5, next hole,
I hit a good tee shot down the center of the fairway, and kind
of missed my iron shot to the right a little bit, fortunately.
 That was right at the flag, and ended up flying just barely on
the front of the green and  releasing about ten feet, and 2-putted
from about 25 feet.

 WES SEELEY: What did you hit in?

 TOMMY TOLLES: 3-iron.  And then 17, I hit a pretty weak 9-iron
about 30, 35 feet short of the flag, and thought I had missed
the putt to the right.  And thank God I didn't read it right,
broke back to the left there at the end and putting the last hole
Dave Junior was talking to me.  I hit it about 40 feet to the
right of the hole, he said "well, you might as well make
this one, you made the rest of them."  I came pretty close.
 So it was almost a perfect round of golf today.

 Q.   Tommy, what did you take away from last Sunday playing
in that final group on the last day?

 TOMMY TOLLES: That was a really tough round of golf last Sunday.
 We had high winds, and although the course was in perfect condition,
it played really tough.  And pretty apparent by looking at the
scores on Sunday, outside of Scotty's score.  But I think I gained
a lot of mental toughness from a day like that, and you don't
experience days like that.  Normally when you do, if you are not
completely focused, you tend to -- scores tend to inflate.  And
it was pretty big burden off my  shoulders too.  I hadn't played
so well this year, and although I played pretty good at the Honda,
everything else has been pretty disappointing.  So it was really
exciting and it was -- those nice big checks don't hurt either.


 Q.   Was it instructive watching Scott win?

 TOMMY TOLLES: Yeah. It was -- I was really happy for him too.
 He is a pretty good friend.  I have known him for two years now.
 We talk a lot every time we see each other, and I was really
happy for him; to watch someone that was in control of his game
like he was.  It is a learning experience as much for me as it
was for him.

 Q.   Where is Flat Rock?

 TOMMY TOLLES: Halfway between Ashville, North Carolina and Greenville,
South Carolina.  So it is a small town, little over a thousand
people.

 Q.   Is there a flat rock there?

 TOMMY TOLLES: I don't think so.  It is right in the foothills
of the Appalachians, so it is about 2,500 feet.  Not a hole lot
happens there.

 Q.   Is there a golf course there?

 TOMMY TOLLES: Yeah, there is a three of them.

 Q.   18-hole? 

 TOMMY TOLLES: Yeah, three 18-hole golf courses.  One's that Joel
Lee designed; which is a pretty famous architect from the Carolinas
area, Tom Fazio built it up there and Donald Ross had a course
up there, so --

 Q.   Which one did you grow up playing on?

 TOMMY TOLLES: I grew up in Fort Myers.

 Q.   Oh, okay.

 TOMMY TOLLES: Moved up there three years ago.

 Q.   Is this the best round of golf you have played in your
career?

 TOMMY TOLLES: I would say so because I am not real familiar with
this golf course.  I haven't had a whole lot of experience here.
 I only played one other time here, that was about four years
ago.  And even then, the golf course seems different than from
what it is now.  And with the wind switching directions from yesterday
to today, it was like playing a whole new golf course for me.
 And, you know, I have to really pace myself out there and think
about what I am doing.  Today I did a pretty good job of it. 
But if the wind keeps switching like this, it is going to wreak
some havoc for me.

 Q.   Under this kind of company, was that special in this
kind of company, with these kind of players  around?

 TOMMY TOLLES: That makes it even worse. (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER.)
Yeah, but, you know, if I start thinking about that, you know,
I have already defeated myself. It is me, the golf ball and the
golf course.  You know, as long as I limit it to those three things,
I will be fine.

 Q.   How do you explain this burst of good play that you have
put together?

 TOMMY TOLLES: Well, been working on my swing for about six months
trying to change it from a hand swing to a body swing, and when
I first started taking lessons, I have been taking lessons from
the same guy for 15 years now, but when I first started taking
these lessons about learning how to use my body more than my swing
-- in my swing, I was pretty much clueless about what I was doing,
and -- but lessons weren't going very well, but it was something
I was committed to and I never really gave up on it and last few
weeks, whatever, I have become a little bit more familiar started
feeling, you know, the positions and where my body should be and
things are starting on the up and up now.

 Q.   Who is that instructor and where is he? 

 TOMMY TOLLES: Jeff Eliman.  He is from

Bonita Bay which is near Bonita Springs, Florida.

 Q.   Why did you move to Flat Rock?

 TOMMY TOLLES: When I was in school up at the University of Georgia
my parents bought a place up there and it was a couple of hours
away and I went up there every other weekend for a couple of years
and just became very familiar with the people up there and I am
not a real big city person and everything is real quiet there.
 When I get home I can go about my business and I don't have 10
million people calling me wanting to do things, so...

 Q.   What is the nearest airport there?

 TOMMY TOLLES:  Ashville has an airport, real small one.

 Q.   What do you do for excitement in Flat Rock?

 TOMMY TOLLES: Nothing.  There is nothing to do.  The fishing
-- there is no fishing around there. Play golf every once in a
while.  Do a lot of yard work; a lot of honeydews.

 Q.   Did you say there is no fishing there?

 TOMMY TOLLES: There is only the Green River that is probably
25 miles away.  There is, you know, it is too cold for bass and
too warm in the summertime for  trout, so makes for a lot of frogs,
though.

 Q.   Is there a movie theater there?

 TOMMY TOLLES: Well, Hendersonville is probably ten or fifteen
miles away and it is probably 10,000 people; they even have a
mall. (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER.)  WES SEELEY: It is not Mayberry.
 It is Flat Rock.


 Q.   How many stoplights?

 TOMMY TOLLES: I can count them all on this fist. (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER.)


 Q.   Is there a McDonald's?

 TOMMY TOLLES: In Flat Rock?

 Q.   Yeah.

 TOMMY TOLLES: No.  There is an Amoco gas station; Po Boys Seafood
Buffet - that is it.

 Q.   Where do they get the seafood? (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER.)

 TOMMY TOLLES: They import it from Hendersonville.  Don't tell
anybody.

 Q.   Do the people know what you do there in Flat Rock?

 TOMMY TOLLES: Probably about ten or fifteen people know what
I do.  Rest of them have no idea;  which is the way I like to
keep it.

 Q.   Spend much time there?

 TOMMY TOLLES: Yeah.

 Q.   Good luck.

 TOMMY TOLLES: That is my home base and you know, during the winters
I am either spending my Christmases in South Africa or Florida.
 The winters there are pretty miserable; gets awful windy that
time of year and cold wind is pretty uncomfortable.  Summertime,
I enjoy it up there.  It is  -- the weather is nice and cool;
very rarely does it get in the 90s; humidity always stays down
a little bit. Pretty up there in the mountains.

 Q.   Keep playing like this people might find out what you
do.

 TOMMY TOLLES: Well, we will try and keep it hush.

 Q.   Yeah.  Do they get ESPN?

 TOMMY TOLLES: There is not a whole lot of TV in Flat Rock.

 Q.   You had this great desire to remain anonymous; is that
basically what you are saying?

 TOMMY TOLLES: No, I kind of -- I like to keep things small. 
One-on-one; more of a personal type basis and I am not a big people
person. 

 Q.   Professional golf, sort of strange for an introvert?

 TOMMY TOLLES: Yeah.

 Q.   You could be --

 TOMMY TOLLES: Everyone always tells me you are in the wrong business.
 I hate to fly, too, so. (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER.) I have to fly every
week, so....

 Q.   Do they have enough people there on TV for cable or do
they have dishes or what?

 TOMMY TOLLES: Almost everybody has a satellite.  You can get
the cable company if you live close enough to the city limits
of Hendersonville and there is one road in and one road out of
town.  Anybody bordering that road has cable.  And we just got
city water two years ago, so that was big for us. (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER.)


 Q.   What is the highway?

 TOMMY TOLLES: 25.  US-25.  But everything is pretty quiet in
Flat Rock.

 Q.   Who is the mayor?

 TOMMY TOLLES: Actually, we are -- Flat Rock is a township, so
there is no mayor, no counsel.

 Q.   You got a policeman? 

 TOMMY TOLLES: No, not as far as I know.  I haven't run into him
yet.

 Q.   Isn't there a race car driver from there?

 TOMMY TOLLES: Sterling Marlin was looking at it.  Bobby Hamilton
or the Country Time Racing Team was just outside of Hendersonville.
 Actually they were in East Flat Rock. (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER.) There
are some racing teams up in Bavard; one in Flushing.

 Q.   Are you the real Tommy Tolles or is this -- (AUDIENCE
LAUGHTER).

 TOMMY TOLLES: That is what the whole part of being in a small
town is.

 Q.   How big is East Flat Rock?

 TOMMY TOLLES: I think it is probably a couple of thousand people.


 Q.   Hey.....

 TOMMY TOLLES: Hendersonville tried to incorporate all the small
towns in the area, you know, to enlarge itself, as far as you
know, the small towns are considered you know, all they do is,
you know, it raises their taxes and they really gain nothing out
of it, so they have all branched off and you know, given themselves
names Flat Rock East, Flat Rock, Saluda, Tuxedo, Zarconia; all
little kind of places there. Sometimes 100, sometimes 500 people.


 Q.   You spend some time in South Africa.  What is the reason
for that?

 TOMMY TOLLES: Well, first year I went down, there is a guy playing
the field, Nolan Henke.  He got his TOUR card, but he had already
bought a plane ticket.  I ended up buying his plane ticket.  It
was my first year as a pro, so I needed someplace to go to start
gaining experience.  My college career was pretty short, and went
down there for the first year and then met my future wife down
there, so I had to go down for the next four years just to keep
in touch with my in-laws.  My phone bill was so high it was a
lot are cheaper to fly.

 Q.   What does she think of Flat Rock?

 TOMMY TOLLES: She grew up in Johannesburg, which is six million
people, so she kind of likes the busy body and the active life.
 Myself, I grew up in Fort Myers when it was, you know, ten or
fifteen, 20,000 people and then when they got too big, we moved
to Cape Coral which has 4, 5,000 people.  As soon as it got into
the 50, 60 thousand people we decided to move out of there.

 Q.   What high school did you go to? 

 TOMMY TOLLES: Cape Coral.

 Q.   Why was your college career short?

 TOMMY TOLLES: Academics problem.  Forgot to open the books. (AUDIENCE
LAUGHTER.)

 Q.   How long did you go for?

 TOMMY TOLLES: I attended school for four years.  Played in golf
team for three years.

 Q.   What is the perfect day for you there in Flat Rock?

 TOMMY TOLLES: 85 degrees and no rain.

 Q.   What do you do?  What would be a perfect day?  Work out
in the yard?

 TOMMY TOLLES: Yeah, that is a good day for me.  Take my son out
and pull some weeds out of the grass and plant a few bushes and
even take the car for a spin around the block.

 Q.   Wow! (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER.) Is this an act or are you is
this you?

 TOMMY TOLLES: It is just a small town.  There is not a whole
lot to do.

 Q.   There is no cops.  Does that mean there is no crime?

 TOMMY TOLLES: Well, it is not like everybody  lives you know,
on top of each other like they do here in Florida.  I have a small
piece of property and it is over an acre, so there is people up
there five, six -- 500, 600 piece acre lots, so...

 Q.   Why did you decide to change your golf swing? Did it
need a change?  Was there a problem before or did you feel you
hit the ball --

 TOMMY TOLLES: I just think there is a trend in golf.  The old
swing was high hands and, you know, everything came from the inside
and I think now everything, you know, pretty much one plane and
by switching from hands to body swing, you know, prolongs everybody's
career too because it takes a lot of pressure off the lower back
and a lot of the joints in the swing.  The body controls all the
positions of the swing instead of the hands, the elbows and the
shoulders and everything - all acting in separate pieces.  Now
everything can just act in one.

 Q.   How comfortable are you with that swing and how comfortable
are you with it under pressure?

 TOMMY TOLLES:  When things were going well like they were doing
today, it is pretty easily to deal with.  Now your mental game
pretty much takes over, the physical part of the game.  There
was a couple times today where I hit  some pretty errant shots
and I am still pretty unfamiliar with the had swing and I am not
to sure what causes them.  It is pretty much a learning basis
for me and it will probably be six months to another year before,
you know, I am totally comfortable, that when I do hit a bad shot
I will know what the cause of it is.

 Q.   Can you win with this swing?  Will it hold up?

 TOMMY TOLLES: Well, right now it is not the swing.  It is the
putting stroke.  If the putter stays hot like it has the last
two days, where I hit a lot of good putts in 18 holes, yeah, I
think I can win, but if I putt like I did the first five or six
weeks of the TOUR this year, be lucky to finish anything but dead
last.

 Q.   Have you noticed the trend of the first-time winners?

 TOMMY TOLLES: Been reading a lot about it in the papers.

 Q.   What do you think?  I mean, do you think you can maybe
be a part of that?

 TOMMY TOLLES: First of all, I think it is great for the game.
 A lot of younger players are starting to shine through.  There
is a lot of really, really good young players out here that probably
 haven't quite gotten the exposure as some of the old trustee
veterans, but you know, I think there is a lot more younger players
this year and the past few years; they have played without any
fear.  They are not intimidated by some of these guys; whereas,
before there was so much history behind it, everybody's championships
and trophies and career money and all that, that everybody was
a little intimidated, now that the money has gotten so high. 
I was just informed that if I were to win this week that my career
money would be more than Ben Hogan.

 Q.   Also Sam Snead?

 TOMMY TOLLES: Great.

 WES SEELEY: Anything else for Tommy?


 Q.   Three first-time winners the last three weeks.  Do you
get a sense that if they can do it, "I can do it;" does
that raise your level of hope?

 TOMMY TOLLES: Well, last week when I played with Scott I was
kind of worried that both of us might step on our faces, we would
fall flat, but I was really impressed with the way he played and
you know, I have seen how it is done now and it is only as hard
as you make it out to be.  So I have played with Scott several
times and I have beaten him on occasions and he has  beaten me,
obviously, on a few occasions, so I am looking forward to it tomorrow.
 Yeah, I think I can do it.

 WES SEELEY: Okay?


 End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT