THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 31, 1996
Tommy Tolles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 WES SEELEY: Tommy Tolles, 69, 64, 69, 72. 14-under.  And after
a solo third last week, tied for second this week.  Well, how
does it all feel?

 TOMMY TOLLES: Well, for the most part, pretty happy.  I had a
lot of opportunities today to really screw things up, and a lot
of opportunities to make some great things happen.  Unfortunately
-- fortunately neither happened, or the bad one didn't happen,
and unfortunately, I didn't get a whole lot out of my round, so...
 Perfect day to play golf today.  It was a little soft out there.
 Every once in a while you might get a little spot of mud on your
ball which makes it tough to hit good solid iron shots, but there
wasn't a breath of wind and the course was pretty much at our
mercy.  Unfortunately, for myself, I just didn't get the job done
today.

 WES SEELEY: You want to take us around, starting with the
birdie on 4.

 TOMMY TOLLES: Yeah, David and I both kind of  got off to a shaky
start.  We drove it in the right rough on the first hole and he
drew a really bad lie; ended up making bogey.  Like I was talking
about yesterday, Justin getting off to his fast start, kind of
set the tone for myself and with David kind of struggling early
on, I was kind of backed into my defensive mode, instead of trying
to hit great shots, I was trying to not to hit bad ones.  On the
fourth hole both kind of settled down a little bit.  I think we
were both even par then.  And I hit a good tee shot down the fairway;
had a great angle from the left side of the fairway to the flag
and I hit a sand wedge that landed about pin-high and then rolled
down the slope about probably 12 or 15 feet short of the hole
and big, big swinging putt.  I was fortunate to make that one.
 And then on 6, I hit I played safe there.  I learned from everybody's
-- everybody telling me yesterday that driver was not the play
so, I played with a 2-iron today and hit a 9-iron on the front
fringe which was only about 10 or twelve feet from the hole and
I made it.  From now on that hole is a 2-iron.  And then 9, I
drove it perfect everyday. Three days right in the left center
of the fairway great angle to lay up.  I think Friday was the
only day  I missed the fairway; drove it in the left rough and
had a perfect lie and three days I drove it underneath the trees
over on the hill on the right and today unfortunately, I had hooked
it in the bunker which is absolutely the worst spot you could
ever hit it.  From that swing on, it was 6 on the score card all
the way. And I tried to turn it into 7 as best as I could, but
-- that is the way this game goes.

 WES SEELEY: Birdied 12.

 TOMMY TOLLES: 12, I played much like I did the 6th hole.  Good
solid iron shot down the right side; was able to see the flagstick.
 116 yards and it just was a perfect large sand wedge for me.
 And hit a good shot; landed about four feet from the hole; spun
back a few feet, and ended up about eight feet from the pin and
knock that one in.

 WES SEELEY: 2-iron again?

 TOMMY TOLLES: Yeah, 2-iron off the tee.  And then on 15 we were
standing back near the fairway waiting for David to hit; next
thing you know you thought 20,000 people just won the lottery.
(AUDIENCE LAUGHTER.) I have heard -- I have been to the Masters
before and watched it and I have seen Nicklaus make birdies and
-- I have heard him make  birdies and you don't hear a lot of
roars any louder than the one I heard today.  What did he do on
16 anyway?

 WES SEELEY: 3.


 Q.   Eagle.

 TOMMY TOLLES: I know, but long putt?

 WES SEELEY: Long 30 foot.  3 --

 TOMMY TOLLES: We couldn't see anything, but we heard it and by
the time we got into the green, the scoreboard had already you
know, put him from 15 to 17 and standing back there in the fairway
and my caddie said I guess we have to make birdies now like everybody
else.  Put a bad swing on it and hit it in one of the worse spots
that you could in the grass bunker there over on the left; had
to play defensive with my chip. I had to try and make the putt
to save par.  It wasn't like I was going to hit a miraculous chip
under the situation.  Funny enough we got over there on 16th tee
box and those same 20,000 people who won the lottery for a second
time. (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER.) I don't know where he was, but whatever
it was, it was spectacular.  The whole roar for him making the
putt and his playing partner putting out to the walk to the 18th
green, we just sat there  and both kind of smiled at each other,
and it was not a whole lot we could do about it.  All I could
pray for was one of those killer fast finishes, eagle, birdie,
birdie.  Fortunately, on 16 I drove it in a little valley left
side of the fairway and I needed -- I actually needed to cut a
3-wood, but there is no way you can get 3-wood up and over the
hill. I tried to hit a 2-iron left it and caught it a little thin
and it hit the hill 20 feet in front of me and fortunately it
didn't go in the water, but ended up in a spot that made it awfully
tough to make eagle.  Probably 40 yards from the green.  Last
three holes I had great opportunities, not to really catch Couples,
but you know, to really make myself proud, and unfortunately I
pushed everyone of them just enough to where they ran right over
the right edge of the hole.

 Q.   I guess winning over 300 grand feels like you won the
lottery or does it feel like you lost?

 TOMMY TOLLES: The three putts I had on the last three holes were
as basic, you know, that is like Johnny Miller said last week
that is stuff you learn in first grade.  All of them were right
edge putts and I pushed them all to an inch or two outside the
hole and I can only wish them in, you know.  Those are the putts
 you practice everyday on the putting green, 360 days of the year
and you -- the days you are not on the golf course, you are throwing
balls down on your carpet watching TV, putting into the cup and
I have got my wife, a couple years ago she bought me one of those
little putting machines where you can take the Astroturf and tilt
it to the side.  I don't know how many times I have lifted it
up on the right side and practiced the right edge putts from ten
feet.  I have won the TPC over 100 times, but not today. (AUDIENCE
LAUGHTER.)

 Q.   What were the lengths of those three putts, would you
say?

 TOMMY TOLLES: 16 was probably about ten feet.  On 17, probably
about six feet.  And then 18, probably about twelve feet and 18,
though was the longest of the three; was the easiest one.  I probably
could have started it left center and still would have gone. It
was pretty close to straight.  The ball starts anywhere inside
the hole and it goes in.  That is why I was so -- was disappointed.


 Q.   15, how long was the putt?

 TOMMY TOLLES: For par?

 Q.   Yeah. 

 TOMMY TOLLES: Probably about 15 feet.

 Q.   With the conditions, did you have an idea in your head
what kind of score you might need to win?

 TOMMY TOLLES: Well, there wasn't a breath of wind, starting today,
so I had to assume that it wasn't really picturing 18 under but
I thought 16-under would have been a good score.  I have got two-shot
lead over my playing partner and, you know, I am not thinking
that he is going to shoot 5 or 6-under.  He is feeling the same
pressure I am.  He is a young man like myself, and I pictured
maybe the best score coming out of the pack a 5 or a 6-under putting
them at fourteen or fifteen.  Unfortunately, Freddy proved me
wrong, but 64 was very capable today.

 Q.   How aware were you of the fact that the two guys that
were chasing were two of the premier players in the world and
how do you think that may have affected you?

 TOMMY TOLLES: To me, you know, every time I had the lead today,
and yesterday, and the last couple of days, I don't -- it doesn't
really bother me who is behind me if Nicklaus or Palmer or Couples
or Colin Montgomerie is behind me; just the fact that people are
-- they are shooting for me and shooting for one better than my
score, you know, I had the butterflies  today and I won't lie,
but you know, I was just -- I don't know -- it is kind of hard
to describe.  Their play didn't affect my play.  I was in control
of myself and unfortunately coming down the stretch, I didn't
do too good a job.

 Q.   Were you always aware of where they were? Were you scoreboard-watching?

 TOMMY TOLLES: I am not going to pull one of those Parnevik's
saying I didn't look at the board. That is what they are there
for.  That is one of the biggest thrills for me when I am playing
a round of golf to see my name up there.  Honestly, that is --
that means a lot to me and every time today I watched my name
go from the first to the third position to the fourth position,
or every time it went back to the top, you know, that is -- it
is a great feeling.  Unfortunately, I wished it was there after
72 holes and not 62.

 Q.   The club you had into 15, the iron?

 TOMMY TOLLES: It was a 7-iron.  It was 174 yards and that is
-- if I could drop 30 golf balls on the driving range, I'd hit
them all, you know, hopefully between 168 and 175.  The perfect
club for the perfect situation, and unfortunately I put a bad
swing on it. 

 Q.   Anything about yourself today in particular, that --

 TOMMY TOLLES: I thought I would get a little bit more upset at
myself today.  I didn't play with a whole lot of emotion.  I try
not to get too excited when things are going good, but a lot of
times when they are not going, so good, I tend not so much to
get myself down on myself, but to kick myself in the rear. I never
could really get really excited about today.  There is so much
at stake, you know, for 29 years old, I could have -- if I had
played good today, I would be out here until I was 39 and then
I would have been an old man and that would have been --

 Q.   Hey.  Hey.


 Q.   Hey.  Hey.  Hey.


 Q.   Hey.


 Q.   Hey.


 Q.   Hey.


 Q.   Yo.

 TOMMY TOLLES: Then, that was -- but when things were going bad
today, I really couldn't get myself motivated.  Just one of those
days, everybody says, you know, I just wasn't ready to play golf
today.  I was just kind of in a fog just watching myself play
stupid and everything else. 

 Q.   How much of the news of this do you suppose is going
to filter back to Flat Rock and what will be the effect?

 TOMMY TOLLES: My mom, I just saw her out here in the parking
lot.  She has already called all the ladies at home, did you watch
my son on TV; did you watch my son on TV and, yeah, we are happy
for him; tell him everything is okay.  She started the web. (AUDIENCE
LAUGHTER.)

 Q.   Tommy, you said you didn't let what was going on in front
of you affect you, but didn't you kind of let it affect you at
15 there?

 TOMMY TOLLES: Well, I had to change my attitude.  Nobody is shooting
at me anymore.  All of a sudden Couples moves one in front of
me.  So you know, all of a sudden I got to be the attacker, and
you know, it just pretty much changes my mental approach to the
way I was going to play the hole.  Instead of just settling for
the middle of the green I had to fire at the flagstick because
there is only 4 holes left at that point.  I can't sit there in
the last four holes especially waiting for that tee shot on 18
since I am not real fond of that tee shot to sit there and just
go ahead and play passive.  I had to play aggressive.  I put a
bad swing on it.  If I had to have the shot all  over again, things
may have turned out differently.

 Q.   What iron did you hit on number 18, your second shot?

 TOMMY TOLLES: We had 205, and there was a dead oak tree over
there.  I wish they would cut it down because it was right in
my way.  205.  I had to play it at the scoreboard which is probably
20 or 25 yards out in the water, and I was going to make sure
I took plenty of club, and I took a 3-iron and actually the ball
went through a part of the tree and ended upright almost pin-high,
a little bit short pin-high over there on the right rough.

 Q.   Will you do anything different next time you are in this
position since you said you really couldn't get into it mentally
today?

 TOMMY TOLLES: I hope I do something different or else I am going
to live a real disappointing life. (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER.)

 Q.   You go from 3 to 2, do you play at Atlanta next week?

 TOMMY TOLLES: Yeah, everybody was talking about Lehman doing
that at The Masters last year and it didn't work, so, no, I am
not going to think about that.

 Q.   You are not in Augusta? 

 TOMMY TOLLES: No.

 Q.   You are playing next week?

 TOMMY TOLLES: Yes, ma'am.

 WES SEELEY: Anything else for --


 Q.   Are you more disappointed or more angry with yourself?

 TOMMY TOLLES: Angry.  You know, it is so many good things could
have come out of today and you know had I played my best and finished,
you know, in the middle of the pack, whatever, I would be more
excited. I know there is a lot of good golf shots left in my bag
and I know there is a lot more putts left in my -- coming out
of my putter, and you know, unfortunately as much as I try to
motivate myself to want it as bad as everybody else does, I couldn't
do it and I am disappointed in my game, but I am angry at myself
because I defeated myself mentally today; not physically.  And
that is everybody says that is 99 percent of the game or 80% of
the game.

 WES SEELEY: Anything else?


 End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT