SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 27, 2011
Loren Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about your day. Obviously you had things going well this morning when you got here. 
 LOREN ROBERTS: Yeah, I really did. I finished the round well this morning. I made three birdies in a row after I came back out and I got in with a good score. I made a couple of good, made some really good putts this morning. 
 And I put a good score up and I feel like I played pretty solid. I hit some good shots, hit some poor shots, made some putts, you know, so all in all just a pretty solid round. 

 Q. How quick was that turn around? You have to play nine or more than nine and then turn around and play another 18. 
 LOREN ROBERTS: Yeah, I don't think it's that bad. I kind of feel like we might have got a bit of a break today. It's nice to be able to come out and play and keep going, especially if you're playing well. 
 Guys yesterday played, they finished, but they had to sit around all day and they're going to have to play late today and come back out again tomorrow morning and finish. So I felt like I was on the good side.

 Q. What were the conditions like today versus last night?
 LOREN ROBERTS: It was pretty windy last night. Our first, I played nine and a half holes, so it was pretty windy and blustery out there. 
 This morning there was a little mist and stuff, but it was calm. Kind of playing like that most of the day. So you could attack the flags today.

 Q. You birdied 15, which is playing pretty difficult today, what's the key to playing 15?
 LOREN ROBERTS: I probably hit two of the best iron shots of the week on 15 and 16. I birdied both holes coming into the stretch and it's pretty funny, I birdied 12, 15, 16, the three hardest holes on the back nine. 
 So I don't know, I just happened to hit really good iron shots. But I really putted well. When I hit a good shot, I made the putt today. That's why I'm 6-under.

 Q. What's it like to play nine and a half holes and then come back out and play the rest?
 LOREN ROBERTS: Oh, most of the guys that are playing out here have competed for 30 years, so I just, I didn't get home really, didn't get out of here until 9 o'clock, so it was a quick turn around. But that's not bad. If you feel like you're playing good I think a quick turn around can kind of help you. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT