U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2009
Loren Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LOREN ROBERTS: I thought we just did this.   
  
  Q. Watson was talking earlier about -- I don't know what, course these guys are playing, where are these birdies coming from; do you feel that way today?   
 LOREN ROBERTS: Yeah, I mean, even this afternoon it played harder for me than it did yesterday in the morning, obviously, but there were still birdies out there, double-digit birdies, that's pretty impressive.   
 My personal feeling, I think you're going to see a much, much different golf course tomorrow. You know, the tees were up -- they're up at 2, the tees were up at 17, the tees were up at 14 today, so I think you're going to see the tees back and tougher pin says tomorrow, I think you're going to see a different golf course.   
  
  Q. Is it starting to dry up and greens?   
 LOREN ROBERTS: Yeah, the fairways are drying up and running fast. The pins were tougher today, but I think the greens are starting to dry out some and downwind shots were a good skip and a roll. I think it's going to be hunker down time starting tomorrow.   
  
  Q. How well do you know Tim Jackson and how is your reaction to how he's playing?   
 LOREN ROBERTS: I know Tim socially, not golfwise, called him a couple times to play, but I know that he always seems to win the state amateur. He's been a Walker Cup player, Mid-Am, couple times, I think he's making a run for Marucci. I think he wants to get on the team, doesn't he?   
  
  Q. That's the plan, yeah. Seemed like it got tougher today from 10 a.m. to 1:00.   
 LOREN ROBERTS: Yeah, it did. Had a little breeze.   
 The golf course was very playable today; it really was. I didn't hit enough great shots, very fortunate to get to 1-under today. I hit a couple of water balls and didn't strike as well today so I felt fortunate today. So I know there were still birdies out there.   
  
  Q. It's not really a U.S. Senior Open until the guys are cussing, though, right?   
 LOREN ROBERTS: Until guys are strenuously tested, yeah, probably.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 LOREN ROBERTS: Not even that much, really. The ball is zooming pretty good. The temperature is dry and it's warm and the ball was zooming good today. I was playing 7 to 8 more yards on my iron shots than I normally do.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT