THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
July 24, 2009
Loren Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Your thoughts on that round today?
 LOREN ROBERTS: Well, wasn't quite as good as yesterday but all in all, you know, spending a lot of time at the course today, I'm in position. I mean, Fred has played so good. I think the way he's probably playing and the way that he hits it straight on this golf course, we are going to have to pull out all the stops and make a lot of birdies. 
 So will have to go low tomorrow, but I think with the rain we had today, the greens are softening up enough where you can go low so you can be a little more aggressive.

 Q. When you see the target that Fred has will set, does that make a psychological difference?
 LOREN ROBERTS: Yeah, you're going to have to go low. But I don't expect him -- he's not going to back up because he hits it so straight. 
 So going to have to go out and just try it make a bunch of birdies I would think. You have to be thinking probably 5-under a round on the weekend to reel him in, and being where I'm sitting at. 

 Q. Tremendous put on 15?
 LOREN ROBERTS: Yeah, it was a great putt on 15. You don't expect to make those. It went right in the hole thank goodness. I think it was going a little bit by. It was probably about a 40-foot putt from the fringe. But I gave it right back at 16. 
 But that's all right. We are there. But we are going to have to go low tomorrow. Everybody is going to have to go low to catch them.

 Q. How did you find conditions after the heavy rain?
 LOREN ROBERTS: It was good. We had a couple of gusts come up but it was good. I was surprised that the wind did lay down afterwards. 

 Q. Do you have to change tactics at this point, go with a few more drivers tomorrow?
 LOREN ROBERTS: I'm hitting a lot of drivers. I hit a few 3-woods. Obviously 17 I'm not going to hit driver on or 9, because it's a 3-wood shot. But the rest of the time, I am hitting quite a few drivers. 

 Q. Some of the players are saying they are hitting hybrids and 3-woods. 
 LOREN ROBERTS: There's a few holes that I would do that on. But it's such a position golf course, you have to position yourself for that shot into the green, because the greens are holding. You don't need to be up there with a 9-iron or a wedge, and with the greens holding, you can be back there a little farther and make some birdies. 

 Q. Did experience with winning the title help?
 LOREN ROBERTS: I hope so. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT