U.S. SENIOR OPEN
August 12, 2016
Loren Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Five birdies today.  How was scoring out there for you?
LOREN ROBERTS: I got off to a good start.  I hit a lot of greens in the front nine.  I really didn't miss a shot through the first 11 holes, and I had some looks and made some good putts.  You know, I missed a couple of fairways and a couple greens in the back nine, made some bogeys coming in.
But all in all, I hit the ball pretty good.
Q. You've had a bulging disk injury, is that correct?
LOREN ROBERTS: Yeah.  You know, hey, you play golf for as long as I've played golf, you're going to have some issues.
Q. How has that been, adjusting with that?
LOREN ROBERTS: Actually, I overcame that.  I'm pretty good.  I just have some, you know, muscle things from time and time again.  But I definitely like hot weather.  That helps.
Q. Has nothing to do with -- didn't have to change any swing mechanics or anything with that?
LOREN ROBERTS: No, I have.  I've probably slowed my swing down a little bit.  I used to kind of hit a hard fade because I used to drive my hips more, but now I'm just kind of a little bit more rotation, a little more arm swing, you know.  So you've just got to adjust.
Q. What was the biggest difference in your game today versus yesterday?
LOREN ROBERTS: Well, I mean, the first 11 holes, I just hit fairways and greens.  That was the whole deal.  I just drove it in play and hit it on the green, and these greens are tough.  You've got to get it inside ten feet to really have a legitimate birdie putt because there's just so much little choppy motion through them.  I hit some good shots, got it in there close and made some good putts.
Then like I said, I missed a fairway at 12 and just never could get out of the left rough, made a bogey there.  You start missing greens, it's just tough to get it up and down.  14 played a little harder today.  It was a 3 iron yesterday for me.  Today it was 230 yards.  That's probably a key hole in the back side, that hole right there, I think, 14.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT