CHARLES SCHWAB CUP CHAMPIONSHIP
October 28, 2007
Loren Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DAVE SENKO:  Loren, congratulations, maybe just talk about, I know it was a disappointment last year, but this probably capped a pretty good year.  You had the win in Baltimore and now this, maybe just share your thoughts on winning the 2007 Charles Schwab Cup.   
 LOREN ROBERTS:  The last month and a half has been, you know, a lot of emotions for me for this tour because I really want in the race and Jay was out so far in front and I won the tournament that got me back in it, obviously the major with double points to get back in the lead.   
 And then it was great to get another major this year, and then to be able to get here and win the whole thing, I know it was disappointing last year.  It was great that Jay won, he's a great guy.  But for me to get up on the last hole and have a chance to do it and have probably the best club in my bag kind of fail me, obviously that's something that I did deal with in the off-season and part of this year.  And it was very satisfying to be able to come down and finish it off this year.   
 You know, I feel bad for Jay and for Brad.  I know Brad was right there and I know he was very unhappy with the way he finished the golf tournament.  And Jay didn't have that good of a day today, either.   
 So I think we kind of walked across the finish line or something.  But it's just a great feeling to get here and to win this, because it's a year-long culmination, and I feel like I played very consistent golf all year, and was just able to play good at the right times and get in the race.   
 I was proud of myself the way that I came out today.  A lot of low scores were shot, but I was proud that I came out and played the front nine as well as I did to really just put myself in a position where I didn't fade away today.  I was proud that I played good the front nine.  I played almost as good the back nine.  I just didn't quite seem to get the birdies to go in, and didn't play 13 and 16 the way I should have.   
 But other than that, I just played solid all day.  So this was the culmination for me of, you know, a long year, and it's so, so, so sweet after last year.   
  
  Q.  What do you think about the way Jim played today, to go out and tie the tournament record?   
 LOREN ROBERTS:  I played with him last year, I don't remember what he shot, 65 or something last year, or something on Sunday.   
 He loves this golf course.  Obviously he plays well here.  We were just talking on the 18th green.  He says, "You know, I've been struggling with my putter all year, I get on these greens, I just hit it at the hole and they go in."  I don't know, he played awesome.  If there's horses for courses, this is his.   
  
  Q.  What was it like watching the last few holes unfold?   
 LOREN ROBERTS:  I was in the Schwab tent.  I had to go watch the computer, the leaderboard was way out of sync on 18 there for some reason, I don't know why, but it was.   
 But, yeah, Fred Funk played awesome today.  Jimmy played awesome.  If you finish eagle, birdie, birdie, birdie, you deserve to win.   
  
  Q.  How nice is it to be No. 1 after a long career?   
 LOREN ROBERTS:  I'm still, you know, I've been struggling with the emotions here on it, because you all know what it was last year, the dog fight last year between Jay and I; and for Jay to win it on the last hole; and then for me to be able to come back and win it this year is huge for me.   
 You know, I mentioned, what, four or five weeks ago after the Constellation tournament, I exorcised a lot of demons from the tournament the year before.  I didn't think I had the same kind of things to exorcise today, but you know, it just feels really good to be able to be there and to finish it off.   
 You know, I think I would have liked to finished in the Top-10 or had a chance to win the golf tournament.  But I think after a long year, I'm extremely happy and proud to be able to win it.   
 The competition is going to be looking tougher and tougher as the Champions Tour moves on with a lot of new guys that are coming on.  I'm glad to be able to get one, you know, now, instead of having to wait a few more years.   
  
  Q.  Do you know what you're going to do with the money yet?   
 LOREN ROBERTS:  You know, I didn't even focus on that.  Jay and I talked about that last year, and I didn't want to focus on that at all.  I just wanted to play my round today, and I really haven't decided what I'm going to do yet, but I'm sure it will, you know -- the two previous years, you know, I've been able to help a lot of things around Memphis and I suspect that that will probably, you know, kind of allow me to keep going in that direction.   
  
  Q.  You said earlier in the week, a lot of friends and family are here?   
 LOREN ROBERTS:  I had a cousin show up who just had knee surgery a woke ago and he walked around the golf course and had a bunch of friends come up.  I probably had 20 people in the gallery today that have been friends for a lot of years or are related to me.  So it was just great to have them all out today.   
  
  Q.  What's it like to play for a million dollars in one day?   
 LOREN ROBERTS:  That's what it boils down to.  It boils down to playing for a million dollars on one day.  That is what is so exciting about the Schwab Cup, is that it's such a year long thing, and invariably it goes down to this last week, and it, you know, comes down to the last day.   
 Something's wrong with you if you say that you don't think about it, because obviously you do.  You're thinking about it in the back of your mind, and I was very fortunate that I was able to focus on my golf game today and get off to a really good start and that's what I needed to do.   
  
  Q.  Was there anything about last year, playing in this final round that you learned from that you put to use in this round today?   
 LOREN ROBERTS:  Not so much from last year, but from the first three rounds this week, I had gotten off to good starts.  I had been under par after the first three or four holes all week.  And I just seemed to either have a couple of 3-putts or make bogeys or something and just kill all my momentum.   
 Today, I wanted to go out and get off to a good start and see if I could keep it going.  You know, I did.  I didn't make a bogey all day.  Like I said earlier, my game plan was to start out and try to go 3-under on 9, and 6-under I thought would have a shot to finish in the Top-10.  I thought if I could make some points out of it, it would be pretty tough, even if Brad were to win.  That was my goals, and the scores were really low.   
 I did get off to a good start but by the time I had got to the back nine, it got myself into position.   
 DAVE SENKO:  Thank you, Loren.  Congratulations.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT