CONSTELLATION ENERGY SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 6, 2007
Loren Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DAVE SENKO:  Loren, thanks for joining us.  Three rounds, you're 10-under and three-shot lead.  Maybe just give us a rundown on your day and looking ahead to Sunday.   
 LOREN ROBERTS:  Well, you know, today I felt like I got a lot out of my round today.  I started off hitting a couple of poor shots early, but hung in there.  Bogeyed the first hole right out of the gate.   
 Came back with a nice little birdie at 2, hit it a foot from the hole.   
 Then I bogeyed the third hole.   
 Then came back and made a nice birdie at No. 5 from probably about five feet right behind the hole there.  Then just kind of parred all the way around until I got something going.   
 10, I hit a 7-iron in there from the left side of the fairway probably about eight feet, eight or ten feet kind of left of the hole behind it and knocked that in.  Made a really good putt there; it was a sidehill breaker.   
 Then hit a good 4-iron in there at the next to about eight feet and made that for birdie.   
 Then hit a good 7-iron in at 13, probably about ten feet right underneath the hole and made a nice birdie.  Had a solid stretch through 15.   
 16 and 18, I drove it in the rough and couldn't really get the ball on the green.  Made three good up-and-downs coming into the house, and got about as much as I could get out of the round today.   
 DAVE SENKO:  Maybe just back up to No. 1 and No. 3.  What happened with the bogeys?   
 LOREN ROBERTS:  I drove in the left bunker again.  Had to chip out, and I think I had 115 yards to the pin and then couldn't get up-and-down.   
 Then I hit in the middle of the fairway at 3.  I hit it in the right bunker and couldn't get up-and-down there at 3.   
 So two quick bogeys, but I did manage to get off the front side at even par.   
 I think a real clutch for me was a really good 2-putt at No. 9 today.  I drove it perfect there.  I hit some funny iron shots today, and hit it just short of the front right of the green at 9.  And I must have had an 80-footer across the green and I hit it up there, almost made it and it went about three feet by and made it.  Made just a great 2-putt there.   
 To get through the front nine at even par, which I really didn't hit it all that good, it kind of gave me a little bit of a lift.  Really, my whole round was 10 through 15 really.   
 DAVE SENKO:  Care to comment on the event, if you were to win tomorrow, possibility of taking over the lead in the Schwab Cup race.   
 LOREN ROBERTS:  What did you bring that up for, Dave?  Golly.  (Chuckling).   
 I'm just going to go out and play golf tomorrow.  That's what I've been doing for the first three days -- go and get my Golf Digest and see if I can find a tip in there.  I hit a couple funny iron shots today; see if I can find another tip in there.   
  
  Q.  I'm sure it will be no slight to you, but I suspect the fans tomorrow, you're going to be playing with Fred and he played obviously very well today with a 66.  Have you been in that situation before, and what do you expect tomorrow?   
 LOREN ROBERTS:  Oh, yeah.  I expect it will be a lot of fun tomorrow, and it will be a great gallery with Fred tomorrow and Tom Watson on top of that.  And he'll bring a great gallery, so I'm happy to be involved in it.  I think it's going to be fun.  I love to play with Tom.  I've said this numerous times; that I love to watch him play because he's so positive about everything.  He plays with good rhythm and I like that.  It's going to be fun.   
  
  Q.  The course, you've played obviously very well, three days in a row, very similar in number; obviously yesterday was bogey-free and today wasn't.  How have you seen the course evolve?  Has it stayed the same day-to-day and what do you expect tomorrow?   
 LOREN ROBERTS:  I think it's played pretty much consistently the same.  I thought the greens may dry up a little bit for the weekend, but today a few of the greens were actually, you know, a little bit softer and had some water on them.   
 The golf course is holding up, you know, very well.  But I have a feeling that they may let them firm up just a little bit tomorrow.  We'll see what happens.  I was told the greens speeded up a little bit today, but I didn't really notice it all that much.   
 I think the golf course has played the same, consistent, for three straight days, and hopefully it will do the same thing for tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  When you get to this point in your career, are the nerves any different than they were 20 years ago?  You're obviously so experienced at this point now.   
 LOREN ROBERTS:  Yeah, but you still want to win.  Everybody tends to put a little bit of pressure on themselves to win.  I want to go out and win.  I'm just going to go out and try to stick to my routine.  If you're really, really swinging the club well, you know, it's a little easier to go out and focus; if you're searching for things, it can be a little tougher.  You know, I just want to go out and focus on trying to put the ball in the fairway and keep putting it on the green.   
 I had some looks at birdies today, not as many good looks at birdies.  The putts I made were short and I didn't really make anything that was a bit longer today.  So maybe we can put the ball in a little better position tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Do you think yourself or other players, when you're over an iron shot, are worrying more about placing the ball on a certain point on the green?   
 LOREN ROBERTS:  I think that can catch up with you a little bit.  I think you can find yourself, you know, worrying a little bit about, well, you know, don't hit it over there or don't hit it in that spot.  You know, I think this golf course can tend to do that to you if you're not careful.  So you really have to commit to what you're trying to do and play the shot.   
  
  Q.  Fred said the first six holes would probably be the turning point.  Do you feel tomorrow, like what you said with the gallery and playing with the two guys, it will take a hot start to get it going?   
 LOREN ROBERTS:  Well, yeah, the front nine is the gettable nine.  I played the back nine better today than I did the front; so I'll have to rectify that.   
 The key thing, if you drive the ball in the fairway here, you can really make some birdies.  The front nine probably plays a little bit shorter.  You have more wedge holes out there.  And the first holes may be an 8-iron; and you have the par 5 fourth hole and you may be able to get home in two; and the hole after that that is a wedge; and sand wedge after that.  So you have a lot of wedge holes on the front nine, so you can make some birdies there.  So you would like to go through the front nine at least a couple under par, really.   
 DAVE SENKO:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT