U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2013
Loren Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   Loren Roberts, 3 under today, 67.

Q.   Fine round of golf. 
LOREN ROBERTS:   Thank you.

Q.   You shot a 67, sir. 
LOREN ROBERTS:   All right.

Q.   Tell us about that, please. 
LOREN ROBERTS:   Well, obviously, I was a little perturbed after yesterday.   I came out, and I hit the ball much better.   I hit 15 greens today.   Obviously, that was the key to my round.   And I made a couple of huge up and downs at 10 and 11 to keep it going. 
But I hit the ball better today and made a couple of putts.

Q.   As someone who's got the reputation of being a very good putter, tell us about the greens here. 
LOREN ROBERTS:   I tell you, these greens are tough.   Obviously, we've played at Southern Hills for years, and those are tough greens.   It seems like Perry Maxwell's got a lot of extra movement that's hard to see.   These greens, you've got to really pay attention.
Like I said earlier in the week, they asked me about the greens, I said I think it starts in the fairway because you've got so many uneven lies and you've got to put the ball in the right spot, and it's just tougher with the tough lies you get in the fairways with the hanging lies to get the ball where you need to have it to have a legitimate putt.

Q.   How about the conditions out there with the wind? 
LOREN ROBERTS:   I didn't think it was too bad.   Obviously, they did a very good job of putting the tees up where they need to put them up at 18, and a couple other holes they had them up. 
So I think they did a really good job of moving the tees around and, you know, moving the tees for where they needed to be for where the pins were.

Q.   Did it help to have a day‑‑ all the uphill approach shots to the greens, did it kind of take a day to get used to trying to get it closer? 
LOREN ROBERTS:   You know, I saw the golf course twice before we started the tournament so I should have had a pretty good idea where to hit it.   I didn't drive it good enough yesterday is the problem.
That's the thing here.   If you get the ball in the rough at all, you're pretty much hacking it out.   You're not going to get it on the green, especially out of the primary.

Q.   Are you surprised no one's gone lower than 67?   It's a day and a half now. 
LOREN ROBERTS:   This is not an easy golf course.   In fact, I thought with the wind predictions they were talking, what, gusting to maybe 25 or something today.   I thought, well, there might be a chance that even or 1 under might be leading after the day's over. 
I think probably going to look at 3 or 4 probably, and that sets up for a great weekend because there are a lot of guys in it still.

Q.   Is this one of the days when you think there are certain points, I'm on course, I'm on track?
LOREN ROBERTS:   No, I just, I hit some better shots.   I just played a little more conservative and put the ball on the green and didn't worry about it if I had it 30 feet away. 
That's kind of what you've got to do, you know.   You can't always go at pins at Majors, especially at Opens.   And especially on this golf course because you've got‑‑ you had some pretty good pins today.

Q.   Good play. 
LOREN ROBERTS:   Thanks, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT