THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ABERDEEN ASSET MNGT
July 27, 2007
Loren Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Could you have had a bigger contrast than conditions at Carnoustie last week, and here? 
 LOREN ROBERTS: Conditions are obviously, well, here today, tougher than last week. Obviously, in the rough, it's harder to find your balls, the fairways are narrow, but it's fun. You really have to concentrate and think about what you're doing. I haven't been hitting the ball well the last couple of days, until the back nine today. I kind of put my head down and thought of a couple of things and finally hit some good shots on the back 9. I actually shot 3 under, just to stay in the championship. 

 Q. That was a terrific effort and back nine score - did you think you might not make the cut when you stood on the 10th tee? 
 LOREN ROBERTS: Well, I knew I was +7, so knew I had to shoot at least level par on the back side. But you never know what the cut is going to be. The scores are going up! So 72 is a very good score. I'm only six off the lead, but I didn't think anybody was going to be under par, especially after today, but obviously Des birdied the last four, and that's a pretty good, impressive finish. 

 Q. Would it have been a dent to your pride to miss the cut as the defending champion? 
 LOREN ROBERTS: Well, I didn't really want to think about that.  I'm not saying it wouldn't have been, but I just really hunkered down on the back side to shoot 32. I found a good swing thought on the 9th hole and then hit a lot of good shots on the back 9. I three-putted 15, but played good coming back to the house. 
 We come over and play two weeks of the year in these conditions, so no, I don't have a lot of links experience, but it is still fun. You have to think about what you're doing, keep the ball down, run the ball into greens, and that's something we don't experience too often back home. 

 Q. In light of that, how difficult is it to adapt your game from the golf you play 50 weeks of the year? 
 LOREN ROBERTS: You just know you're going to face that when you get over here. The US Open this year, I guess, was as close you're going to get that golf, and links type of course, but there's nothing like it, so you know you're going to have to practice to know what you're going to have to do in the wind. You figure out a game plan beforehand, for sure. All depending on wind direction. Stay out the bunkers. 

 Q. Do you still fancy your chances of retaining your Open title? 
  ROBERTS: I don't know about that. We'll have to see how the scores finish and what the weather conditions are tomorrow. Six back is not insurmountable, but I'll need to play good and shoot low tomorrow. We'll see how the guys shake out at the end of the day, and if Des turns out to be leading at -2, I'm kind of right in. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT