U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2007
Loren Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Well you got back in there, Tom slid back and you were right there?   


LOREN ROBERTS: I had a shot. I just, through the turn there, the bogeys at 8 and 9 really hurt me. A couple loose irons.   



 And then I just kind of struggled the back nine.  I just didn't make any putts at the right time, crucial time.  You know me, I got to make a few putts and I didn't do it.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
   LOREN ROBERTS: I hit a 7-iron to both holes. And just missed it a fraction and made bogeys. That kind of took the wind out of my sails. And then it was just trying to do something, figured if I could maybe make a couple birdies going out downwind I could do it. But pins were so tough. They were all on the front of the greens on the downwind holes and it was really hard to get it close.   
  
  Q.  When Tom started having his struggles was it maybe some kind of bad karma?   
   LOREN ROBERTS: I don't know, we just, you know, I mean he birdied nine and then and I thought he was off to the races.   



 And 11, I think if he probably drives the ball in the fairway at 11 he probably goes on knocks it up on the green in two and makes a birdie and goes on and wins the tournament.   
 But it seemed to me like 11 was such a body blow there and it compounded with a 3-putt from just off the fringe, it just kind of took all the wind out of the sails I think.   
  
  Q.  It was hard to tell on TV, how far was that?   
   LOREN ROBERTS: Maybe five yards. It just caught the right edge of the rough and kicked down in the bunker, you know.   
  
  Q.  How do you feel physically after walking this course?   
   LOREN ROBERTS: I feel good. No, I feel good. It's not a bad golf course to walk. You got some up-and-downs from the tees, but other than that it's relatively flat, really.   
  
  Q.  Fair test of golf in your estimation?   
   LOREN ROBERTS: Yeah, I mean, obviously, it is very punishing for anything that's off line. And it can be just a little bit off line and be very punishing. But you know, you got to sit over there and hit the shots.   



 And probably the toughest hole on the golf course is the tee shot is the 18th hole.  I remember at the PGA the fairway was a little bit wider then than it is now.   
 (Laughter.)   
  
  Q.  On seven the iron was to the right and short, what was the miss on 8?   
   LOREN ROBERTS: Actually, I hit it and I just didn't hit enough club probably. And it hit just short of the fringe and just stopped right there and, you know, probably should have putted it, but I tried to chip it and didn't get it up-and-down.   
  
  Q.  Did the ball start to move?   
   LOREN ROBERTS: The ball was starting to oscillate for me a little bit on the greens on the back nine and I think that for me if it's windy, I stand so tall that I struggle sometimes when it gets very windy with my stroke, because I'm tall and I have a long stroke. But you got to stand up there and make them and I didn't make any.   
  
  Q.  Tom had that bad run, 11, 12, 13, did he seem composed, rattled?   
   LOREN ROBERTS: No, he seemed very composed. I mean I think that the 3-putt, 3-putting 11 for double was just, from off he was off the green, but, still, it was tough. And then he 3-putt the next hole, the par-3, after he hits a good shot, but you just couldn't stop it near the hole and it went to the back of the green and he 3-putted that. That's where it seemed like it probably got away a little bit, two 3-putts, you know, that was tough.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
   LOREN ROBERTS: The wind factor's the whole thing. You look at the scores the first two days, we didn't have a whole lot of wind. The greens were relatively soft, you could attack the flag. You saw a lot of scores in the red. But all you need is a little bit of wind, all you need is 10 to 15 out here and it's really tough because you have such tight lines to drive the ball.     
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT