U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2007
Loren Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PETE KOWALSKI: This is Loren Roberts 4-under for the Championship, second place. 

 Q.  Some general comments on your round and the playing conditions. 


LOREN ROBERTS: Obviously we played a little bit different golf course today than we played in the first two days. The greens were much firmer and obviously that's due to the fact that we had some pretty good wind today and the tees were back on some of the holes from where they had been. 



 So the golf course was definitely very much different than we played it the first two days. 

 Q.  How about your game today? 


LOREN ROBERTS: My game, I hit the ball, feel like I hit the ball just as good. I hit it solid, hit a lot of solid shots, hit a lot of greens. 



 The pins were a little tougher today, it was a little harder to get the ball close to the hole.  And it's always a little tougher to make putts when it's windy, especially on an exposed golf course like this.  But I felt like I played almost as well. 
 I -- 17 I hit a good shot.  I thought I hit a good shot.  Just happened to get a bad break there.  So other than that, I played good all day. 

 Q.  How much of the ball was visible? 
  LOREN ROBERTS: There wasn't any visible. That's why I just could -- I had to get the sand off the top of it just to see that it was a ball. And where it was, I just figured there's no way I could swing at it and advance it anywhere. So I elected to take an unplayable. 

 Q.  You've only had, in 56 holes, two bogeys, two doubles, everything else has been pars.  Usually that is pretty good for a USGA event.  Is it enough to keep playing like that tomorrow or do you have to get some birdies? 
  LOREN ROBERTS: I am just going to go out and hit the ball solidly. I hit the ball the same today as I hit it the first two days, obviously the golf course was that much tougher. But if I can keep driving the ball in the fairway and make a few more putts, then obviously I got to stay away from the double bogey. 



 But the double I made today, I don't think that had anything to do with it.  I just caught a bad break. 

 Q.  Your thoughts on where Tom's at right now, how he's playing. 
  LOREN ROBERTS: He played really good. Obviously he let a couple slide on the front nine. But he hit the ball solidly in the wind. Obviously we all know what he can do in the wind, he's a great ball-striker. 



 I think the whole key to the round was the way he played the last four holes.  He made a great bunker shot out of the fairway bunker at 15 and then he birdied 16. 
 So he hit two solid shots coming in with a great up-and-down on 18.  He played 1-under the last four and I think that's why he's leading. 

 Q.  (Inaudible.) 
 LOREN ROBERTS:  Without question, yeah. 

 Q.  (Inaudible.) 
  LOREN ROBERTS: No, I got in there, I couldn't stand, to where I could really swing at it hard enough to really think about moving it. The last thing I wanted to do was hit it deeper into the hill. So I said, take a drop, see if we can get out of here with a bogey. 



 And unfortunately I didn't get it up-and-down, but, hey, I'm still right there.  So if I can just keep playing the way I'm playing, who knows what will happen tomorrow. 

 Q.  When you talk about what an accomplishment it is and maybe how tough it is, every shot into that wind and with the greens and what have you, how you have to just fight it. 
  LOREN ROBERTS: Obviously it's a tough golf course and it was designed that way. You've got to hit every shot right where you're looking and you got to hit it solid when the wind's up today. 



 And it doesn't end there.  Once you get on the surface, the greens are very tough to putt and you have to be very conscious of your speed. 

 Q.  You seem to be very comfortable on a Wisconsin golf course, do you feel at home here? 
 LOREN ROBERTS:  Of course I do.  I got a lot of great friends up here and I love coming here. 

 Q.  Is this the Whistling Straits that people expect, what you saw today? 
 LOREN ROBERTS:  I think today was.  And they ratchet it up a couple of notches with the course set-up today too. 

 Q.  As somebody on the outside it's not overly surprising to see Loren Roberts here in the third round, with a Tom Watson, in an event like this, USGA, what have you, it's going to take a big name, isn't it? 
  LOREN ROBERTS: Well, it's nice that you would put me in that category, but, yeah, I mean, you have to have some experience to get around this golf course. And it's going to take a putt here and a putt there and a solid shot. Just like Tom stepped up and hit a great shot at 17. That's what it's going to take. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT