U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2007
Loren Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RAND JERRIS: We're now joined by Loren Roberts. Loren with a round of 1-over 73, 4-under for the Championship. How much different was the golf course playing today with the wind up? 
  LOREN ROBERTS: It was much different today. The greens, obviously with the wind had dried out some, the downwind holes were tough to get the ball close to the hole, and they moved some tees back, and we had the wind. 



 So we essentially played quite a bit of a golf course than we had the first two days. 
 THE MODERATOR:  For the record, could I ask you to go through the birdies and bogeys on your card? 
  LOREN ROBERTS: I birdied the ninth hole, made it from 13, 14 feet just to the right of the hole. Made a bogey at the 6th hole, excuse me, I forgot about that. Tried to hit a sand wedge downwind and hit it in front of the bunker and didn't get up and down. Then I bogeyed the 10th hole, birdied eleven and 14, and then made a double at 17. 

 Q.  What clubs did you hit on 11 and 14? 
  LOREN ROBERTS: 11 I hit a 4-iron second shot up to the fringe and got it up and down for birdie, and I hit a wedge out of the right rough from 14 and hit it 20 feet behind the hole. 

 Q.  Talk about 17. 
  LOREN ROBERTS: I thought I hit a good shot. Your line is good there over the bunker; I hit it good. I was happy with the way I hit it. I thought it was going to be pretty good. 

 Q.  It seemed like Tom's lead was there for the taking.  How disappointing is it for you not to be able to capitalize on that? 
  LOREN ROBERTS: I'm still there. I mean, obviously I would have liked to have shot anything under par today, would have been a good score, and that's what I was looking for. I felt like I had it in my grasp and had an unfortunate bad break at 17. Other than that, I don't feel like I'm in too bad a shape. 



 Tom didn't shoot under par either today, so, you know, the reason he's leading is because he played the last four holes 1-under par. 

 Q.  How nice is it to be in the last group tomorrow?  How important was it to be in that position again? 
  LOREN ROBERTS: I think it's good. Hopefully I'll get off to a good start tomorrow and take it from there. You know, for me to shoot over par and still be in the last group, that just says how tough the golf course played today. How many rounds were there under par today? 

 Q.  Eight. 
 LOREN ROBERTS:  Eight under? 
 RAND JERRIS:  Congratulations on your fine play, we wish you lots of luck tomorrow.  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT