SENIOR BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 27, 2006
Loren Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STEVEN FRANKLIN:  I had just spoken to you after you had just arrived on Tuesday, and you had not played yet. I asked you about your expectations, and you were a little bit coy and said, "let's just say they are high."  Now maybe I can see why you said that.
LOREN ROBERTS:  (Laughing) Obviously there's a lot of low scoring today, a lot of, you know, 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 under par scores.  Peter, you know, put a pretty good score up early on and I think the afternoon boys had probably a little better    even a little better conditions than the guys in the morning.

It was there for the taking today and I played very well.  I hit a lot of good iron shots and made some good putts.  I'm sure most of the guys in the field maybe feel like they left a couple out there, but it's just a great, glorious day today and I'm happy to get off to the start that I got.
STEVEN FRANKLIN:  I think you probably missed one green all day.
LOREN ROBERTS:  I think I did miss one green.  Just played very well.  So I didn't really scare a bogey today and that's very unusual for links golf.
STEVEN FRANKLIN:  We'll just do your card and we'll open up for questions.  Birdie at 4, the par 3.
LOREN ROBERTS:  I hit an 8 iron there probably about five feet right into the hole for birdie there.

9, I finally hit that fairway and another 8 iron about 18 feet just a little short of the hole and made that for the second birdie.
STEVEN FRANKLIN:  Birdie at 10.
LOREN ROBERTS:  10 I hit a another 8 iron from the right rough really, and hit it in there probably about five, six feet right behind the hole again and made that for birdie.

13, that was probably my best iron shot of the day.  I hit 7 iron.  I had 152 to carry and 171 to the hole and hit it in there with about another 6 footer for birdie and that was the best shot of the day there.

17, I hit a good tee shot past the bunker and hit a 5 iron and looked like it went right past the hole and I 2 putted from probably about 20 feet right behind the hole.
Q.  Had you played here before?
LOREN ROBERTS:  Just in '94 when  The Open Championship was here.
Q.  How did you do?
LOREN ROBERTS:  I played relatively well.  I think I finished somewhere in the mid 20s I think.  I had a great time.  Enjoyed the golf course.  I'd have to say this would probably be one of my favourites I think.  I think some of the new bunkering is really good.  I know that they are looking forward to the Open Championship in '09, so really some of the bunkers, they are in the correct spots.
Q.  Do you enjoy links golf?
LOREN ROBERTS:  Yeah, like I said, I really liked the golf course when I was here in  '94.  You know, we've really had great weather.  I got off to a really good start the beginning of the year and played really well most of the year off and on.  I haven't been able to crack the winner's circle or had a couple of chances lately, and feel like I have some good confidence going and I like what I'm doing.

So I do really like links golf.  I just like all of the options that it gives you and I just enjoy that.
Q.  Good to have time off before coming here?
LOREN ROBERTS:  Yeah, it was.  I needed a little refresher.  I've been putting myself a little hard and the week off before coming here was good for me.
Q.  Inaudible?
LOREN ROBERTS:  I do.  Yeah, I really do.  I just don't have the terrain I guess to really do it.  I was talking to a couple architects about, you know, wanting to do the stack side bunkers, and I do know that when guys have tried to do it, especially on clay type of soil, they always end up falling in.  You know, you just can't keep them up.

So I love that kind of golf.  I love the fact that a bunker is a bunker.  You know, a lot of times guys will get upset if they can't hit a 4 iron out of the bunker on the green and it just really lends to playing the golf course a lot more strategically when you have bunkers that are true bunkers.
Q.  Inaudible?
LOREN ROBERTS:  Oh, I think so.  I think, you know, Turnberry carries a huge reputation.  I know the Open Championship hasn't been contested here that often but I know everyone in America remembers, you know, the great Open Championship here in '77 with Watson and Nicklaus, and I think it does carry a huge reputation.
STEVEN FRANKLIN:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT