FORD SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 15, 2006
Loren Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVE SENKO:  Loren, maybe just get us started.  Finished with three straight birdies.  64.  Second week in a row you've had a pretty good Saturday.
LOREN ROBERTS:  Yeah.  I've had a lull two weeks in a row.  Today I really hit the ball well.  You know, obviously the only bad shot I really hit was going for the green on 17 with a 4 wood.  It was in between clubs for me.  Probably too much club, so I missed way over to the right and still made birdie.

So when that happens, you know things are going your way.  But it was the case of the putter working for me again on Saturday just like it did last week on Saturday.  The greens are so good here, if you can get your line    you can get your ball started where you're looking, you're just going to make a lot of putts.  I think that's probably why you saw such a crowded leaderboard the first two days.
DAVE SENKO:  Maybe just go through your birdies.  You had four in the front, 1 and 2.
LOREN ROBERTS:  Started out of the first hole, hit a 9 iron in there probably about two and a half feet for birdie.

Second hole, I probably made it from I guess 30 feet left of the hole there.  The second hole was going around a little hard and it went right in the middle.  Really made it from probably    I guess it's the 5th hole.  Yeah, I made it for    I thought I knocked it right in the hole, and it was probably about nine feet right behind the hole.  Knocked that one in.
DAVE SENKO:  What did you hit?
LOREN ROBERTS:  I hit a 7 iron there.

And then No. 7, I probably hit a sand wedge in there.  Made that from probably about    I think I'll say 11 feet.  Just a little short right of the hole there.
DAVE SENKO:  No. 10?
LOREN ROBERTS:  Really key was number 8.  I hit a good iron shot.  The wind kind of got it and came up short there in the grass just left of the bunker.  In fact, I thought it almost came back in the hazard.  Really didn't have much of a chip and I had to chip it left of the hole, and I made about a 15 footer there for par, which really    that kept the round going for me there.

Then on 10, I made it from probably about five feet just right of the hole.  And then it was the stretch run.  The last three I hit a 9 iron again to probably about two and a half feet at 16.  Then I made it    you know I hit a real chip out there on 17 and chipped it probably about 20 feet behind the hole and made that one for birdie.

And last hole was probably the best shot I hit all day.  I hit a perfect 3 wood down there.  I got down there and I still had that branch in my way.  I played a little 7 iron off my back foot, and I had 180 to the hole, and just kind of hit a low    hit it low and hard and skidded up to the green on the last hole for birdie.

That was the probably the best shot I hit all day just because I had to do something a little different with it.
DAVE SENKO:  Questions?
Q.  (Inaudible.)
LOREN ROBERTS:  You know, I feel like I love poana.  There is some in these greens, but they're pretty pure.  They've got most of it out.  They're bent.  But I kind of like poe a little bit.  And I don't    I don't mind greens to be a bit bumpy.  I've always felt like, you know, if you've got a good stroke and you hit the ball solidly, greens that are maybe a little rough are not quite as good a quality tend to help better putters.

But this golf course is in such quality shape that I think you're going to have to hit the ball well.  And when you do, you got to make the putts, because a lot of other guys are going make them.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
LOREN ROBERTS:  Yeah.  To be honest with you, statistically, if I could have come out and shot 2 under, it would have been a great round after shooting that low.  That might have got me pretty doggone close to something there.

But, I    everything kind of came together.  I got all the breaks on Saturday.  I got the ball pin high there Saturday, and that's why I shot low.  The whole key was to get the ball pin high.  That's hard to do on that golf course.  You got a lot of downwind and into the wind holes there.

But on Sunday I just didn't get the breaks.  Saturday I hit it in the rough three times off the tee and I had lies I could actually knock it up on the green with.  But Sunday I think I hit it in the rough three or four times and was basically shipping out.  Those are the kinds of things that happen.  You can't take anything away from Allen Doyle.  He played awesome.  Every time he got a wedge in his hand he hit it five feet.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
LOREN ROBERTS:  I really didn't notice it.  I just keep drinking a lot of water.  I hear it's going to be hotter tomorrow.  I don't mind heat.  I live in Memphis where it's like this every day in the summertime.  I don't mind it.  You just have to really pay attention to your water consumption.  You got to drink water every single hole.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
LOREN ROBERTS:  I'm putting last week behind me.  You know, I'm not even going to think about that.  This is a totally different type of golf course.  You're going to have to go out and make birdies here.  You've got several wedge holes and several birdie holes.  The only par 5s that really are reachable really are probably 17 and 13.

So    and really not 13 today because it was into the wind, so you're going to have to    you have to make some birdies, and you got to make some birdies on the shorter Par 4s.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
LOREN ROBERTS:  That was something that    I had two years of exemptions left:  This year and next year if I wanted it.  And, you know, I got such a great start that I figured, gosh, I got to see where it can go.  And that's what I'm going to do.
Q.  Do you find one thing glaringly different than the Regular Tour (inaudible)?
LOREN ROBERTS:  That's probably about the only thing.  Pace of play is so much quicker out here, too.  It just is.  You've got 78 guys, and most of the guys have bee there, done that, and they just go out and play golf.

You don't have to worry about that Thursday Friday cut thing, and play just goes much quicker.  Competitively, no.  These guys are just as competitive as if they were on the Regular Tour.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
LOREN ROBERTS:  Yeah.  I've been working at my game pretty hard for the last four months.  Trying to get back where I was the first two months of the year.  So I made a couple adjustments:  One in the golf swing and one in the putting stroke.  Yesterday about probably the last three or four holes I hit some better shots and made some better putts.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
LOREN ROBERTS:  Yeah.  You know, you're just going to have to make putts, because the slopes and the greens are so good that there's not a whole lot of slope around the pins.  The greens are so good.  I mean, you just    you know balls aren't really going to really bounce off line on you.  The greens are super.  So that kind of let's a lot of guys in, I think.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
LOREN ROBERTS:  You know, I enjoy any kind of golf, and I thought last week was awesome.  I was would love to play a golf course like that all the time, because you had to think on every single shot.

You know, that means    you have to think around here, but you're going to have to go around this golf course.  When I got here I thought I was going to need to go around and shoot 2 or 3 under per nine is kind of what you have to start out with.  Because we were going to have great weather, the greens were relatively soft.

So you're going to have to average two and a half birdies a nine to be here in contention at the end, I think.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
LOREN ROBERTS:  Not really.  My shoulder's gotten a little inactive, so I've tried to put a little more shoulder back into my stroke.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
LOREN ROBERTS:  Well, the only thing I really told my caddie different for tomorrow was if we drive it down there on 17 good again, I'm laying up.  I don't care how far we drive it down there, just because with the pin back left, you're going to be trying to come in from the right side.  And if you miss right, you're not    way right    you're not going to be able to chip it anywhere close anyway.

That's the only thing I would probably do differently would be to    no matter where I drive    would be to lay it up on 17.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
LOREN ROBERTS:  I think this is a little tougher finishing hole than last week.  Last week you could hit a 4 or 5 iron off the tee and still hit a 9 iron to the green because we played downwind all week.  This is a pretty good finishing hole.

Today was downwind, and I mean, you've got the water all the way down to the left side.  Optically it kicks out a little bit down there.  You gotta hit I think about 235 just to carry that one little corner there.  You have to actually hit it more left than you think you do.  I hit a 3 wood today perfectly where I was looking right at the big tree.  I had a little turn on the right to left, and I still had that overhanging branch in my way.  And I hit what I thought was a perfect tee shot.  So it's a tougher finishing hole, it really is.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
LOREN ROBERTS:  I don't think so.  I mean, you've got plenty of room left.  From where you have to stand on the tee it doesn't look like you have that room to the left.  You just have to send it down there with some hook on it to get a clear shot, you really do.  So you're going to have to bring the left side into play.
DAVE SENKO:  Anymore questions?  Okay.  Thank you Loren.
LOREN ROBERTS:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT