U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2006
Loren Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MARK ROLFING: Congratulations on an incredible round of golf.  Aside from shooting 62, are you aware of what you accomplished out here this afternoon?

LOREN ROBERTS:  Well, I knew it was pretty low.  It's got to be close probably to the lowest round in a USGA event.  But that's kind of    they asked me for my ball and glove already, so I knew something was up.

MARK ROLFING:  It's the lowest round ever in any U.S. Open and you have tied the lowest round in any Major championship in golf, mens's or women's.

LOREN ROBERTS:  Well, that kind of    that kind of got me weak in the knees there, Mark, to be honest.  It was a great round, everything went my way today and I hit a lot of good shots, obviously.

But the putter was on and if I did hit a bad shot I just seemed to get a good break today.  So I'm just thrilled to death to be back in the chase.

MARK ROLFING:  Was there a point in the round at all where you felt like you may have a chance to make history?  Did you have a sense of that at all?

LOREN ROBERTS:  I really wasn't thinking about it.  I actually got a good break and got a decent look at 16 and got the ball on the green there.

And to make the putt at 17, I knew it had to be pretty doggone close to something special.  But I really didn't think about it today.  I just kept trying to hit fairways and greens and making some putts.

MARK ROLFING:  And the one at 17 was really a great one.

LOREN ROBERTS:  Yeah, it was good.  It was just a left edge putt, and I knew if I hit it hard enough it would go right in the middle.

MARK ROLFING:  Last week on the Champions Tour you had your worst finish in your career.  Where did you find the light switch between New York and Kansas?

LOREN ROBERTS:  Well, I think last night it was    all the guys in my posse is up here with me this week and I think it was between the Rendezvous ribs and the brisket and the potato salad, somewhere there is where I found it.

MARK ROLFING:  Do you look at tomorrow's final round as maybe a chance of redemption from last year?

LOREN ROBERTS:  It's a little too early to tell.  Obviously, Tom is playing well.  This is his kind of golf course, so we'll just have to see what happens.  I know we're going to play early tomorrow because of weather, but we'll just see what happens tomorrow.  But I am glad I got myself back in the chase.

MARK ROLFING:  Good luck tomorrow, Loren.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT