U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2005
Loren Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Could you talk about the 11th hole first.
LOREN ROBERTS:  Well, I mean, I just drove it perfect there and just hit a terrible wedge.  I mean, I just was trying to feather one in there.  I didn't even swing it back far enough.  I didn't swing hard enough at it.  It was just a terrible shot, and the bunkers are really tough here this week.  I was just making 5 and then I compounded the error by not getting the first one out.

That's the way it goes.  I didn't hit the ball near good enough today to probably do it, so hopefully next time I can hit the ball a little better.
Q.  Did you think after 11, though, you still had a chance?
LOREN ROBERTS:  Well, yeah, you always had a chance.  D.A. was going good, and obviously I saw him bogey the last two.  I couldn't get the ball close enough to the hole the last four or five holes to really have a legitimate birdie putt.  I think I've been taking too many golf lessons.  I'm going to start working out on my own (laughing).
Q.  What, if any, effect is there when Greg also wasn't playing too well?
LOREN ROBERTS:  Well, you don't pay attention to what the other guy is doing.  I felt bad for Greg because he and I were both there.  You know, we just started driving the ball poorly on the back nine, and you can't do it out here.
Q.  Did you notice Doyle's name on the leaderboard?
LOREN ROBERTS:  Well, he moved all the way up there all day long.  I mean, 8 under is a pretty doggone good score.  That's the lowest round of the week.  To do it on Sunday, obviously you're going to get close.  I don't care where you start in the field.  You shoot 8 under on Sunday in a national championship, you're going to be close in the end.
Q.  Did fatigue become a factor this week?
LOREN ROBERTS:  No, I'm just a little bit off.  I played really good the first two days and I've been working on something in my golf swing and it just let me down all weekend.  I'm trying to go from a swing I've had for the last three years back to my old game, and I'm not quite there yet.
Q.  Once you left that one in the bunker here, it seemed like you hit the next one pretty quick out there.
LOREN ROBERTS:  Well, I had no shot.  That's the closest I could have got it out of there.  It's impossible to spin the ball out of these bunkers.  Obviously even from the fairway, I hit the ball 20 feet past the hole there instead of trying to squeeze it in so close.
Q.  (Inaudible).
LOREN ROBERTS:  I was pretty surprised.  The pins, like I said yesterday, they moved the pins way up into the corners, and it was really tough to get a shot in there close, especially on the back nine.  It was really hard to get the ball close to the hole.  It seemed like all the holes were going away from you.  Obviously the greens got firmer and faster.  You had to do your damage on the front nine and I didn't do it.  I played the par 5s terrible today and didn't take advantage of those holes, and that's what the tournament was for me.
Q.  How amazing was a 63 today?
LOREN ROBERTS:  It was unbelievable.  Obviously he made a lot of putts.  I didn't see it, but to make eight birdies on this golf course, you had to putt your golf ball.
Q.  On 18 tee you knew you needed birdie to tie.  Did you just kind of let the drive go a little bit?
LOREN ROBERTS:  I just started to hit the ball to the right on the back side.  I had it going both directions today off the tee, and you just can't do that.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT