U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 30, 2005
Loren Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. The course played a little more difficult today?
 LOREN ROBERTS:  Yeah, the course totally changed today from what it was the first two days.  Also, the pins were in definitely some tougher spots to get at today, a little more firmness, a little more speed on the greens.  The greens were a lot faster today than they've been, and I would expect it to probably even speed up a little bit more tomorrow.
Q.  The birdies, you say you win these things with great par saves.  You had a couple of dandies?
 LOREN ROBERTS:  Yeah, I made a good par at 12 today after I hit it in the left bunker off the tee and hit it way left of the green.  I got that up and down for par there.

I can't think of where the other par was that I made that was good.  Probably the shot of the day for me was holing it with a sand wedge for eagle at 10 after driving it in the rough there, which was a hole that was very reachable in two, and then to come away with still a 3 was a huge boost for me.
Q.  You were jumping up.  Could you see it all?
 LOREN ROBERTS:  I couldn't see it go in, but when I saw them finally jump up and really start yelling, I knew it went in up on the green.
Q.  What does that do for momentum when you get an eagle like that?
 LOREN ROBERTS:  It was huge.  I didn't drive it very well the front nine at all, and I made a bogey at 9 there, turned even par, and then to do that, make an eagle there, it just really kind of put me up there where I felt like I could do something.  I got out from behind the 8 ball a little bit there.
Q.  Got yourself in position for tomorrow.  It's just up to you to go out and play?
 LOREN ROBERTS:  Yeah, I've just got to go out and play.  I've got to drive the ball a little better off the tee tomorrow.  I have to drive it a lot straighter because the fairways are getting a lot firmer.  There's going to be more run out so you can't play the edges.  You're going to have to hit it down the middle of the fairway, the line that you're looking at to get it out there.  I'm going to have to drive it better tomorrow.
Q.  Once you get on the putting greens they're going to be even firmer?
 LOREN ROBERTS:  Obviously they're going to speed up more.  We haven't seen a lot of really severe slopes yet, with maybe the exception of the 9th hole and 16.
Q.  We expect rookies to make noise on this Tour because of playing on the Tour, but is it what you thought it was going to be, the competition?
 LOREN ROBERTS:  Of course I've only played two majors, the Senior British and here.  But this is all the competition you want.  Obviously you've got a lot of great champions here, a lot of major champions that are playing, so it's a thrill for me to be here playing against them.
Q.  Do you pay attention to what's going on out there, watching the scoreboard, things like that?
 LOREN ROBERTS:  Not particularly.  I take a glance every now and then.  I'm not a scoreboard watcher and I'm not someone that ignores it, either.  I would kind of like to know where I am at certain times.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT