U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2005
Loren Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Loren, you're holding the co lead right now.  Tell us about your round today.
 LOREN ROBERTS:  It was just a pretty good, solid round.  I just made one bogey, and I hit the ball in the fairway just like I did yesterday.  I think I only missed one fairway off the tee again today.  I had the ball in a lot of good places.

Front nine I played extremely well, my second nine and had three really makeable birdie putts coming into the house but didn't make them.  But I like where I am with a chance.
Q.  Receptivity of the greens, about like yesterday?
 LOREN ROBERTS:  About like yesterday.  They're soft, but they're going to firm up.
Q.  How about the course in general?
 LOREN ROBERTS:  The fairways are firming up a little bit, so the golf course is just really playing fair.  You hit good shots, you get rewarded.  Obviously the rough is still growing a little bit.  If you get in the rough you can't get the ball on the green.
Q.  Were you and Tom feeding off each other's good play?
 LOREN ROBERTS:  Everybody in the group played well.  Des shot 5 under, I think.  I was high score in the group at 4, so we all kind of drove each other along and we all played good.
Q.  What do you take after two rounds with your position, obviously two more rounds of play?
 LOREN ROBERTS:  You know, Saturday is always moving day, but I like where I am right now.  You never know.  I don't know if 9 will be leading at the end of the day, but 10 would probably be the number.  I think some of the real low scores were shot yesterday afternoon, but I would look for somebody to put a low one up this afternoon, too.
Q.  Are you surprised that the scores are so low?
 LOREN ROBERTS:  No, I'm not surprised at all.  The greens are soft, they're very receptive.  You can fly the ball right at the flag.  The greens are not really overly fast yet.  By and large, every hole is pretty much, you can go right after it.
Q.  Would you rather see the conditions of the greens get faster?
 LOREN ROBERTS:  Well, I just think if it's faster and firmer there's more shot making involved.  The golf course is such a good golf course.  It's just a straight up golf course.  You hit good shots, you get rewarded.  I think everybody in the field likes that, appreciates that.
Q.  Some silly little question with the weather getting warmer, what kind of refreshments do you have out on the course?
 LOREN ROBERTS:  You've just got to drink a lot of water.  Just drink a lot of water.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT