U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2005
Loren Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Loren, did you get in a groove out there today?
 LOREN ROBERTS:  Yeah, we had a very good group today.  We played with a lot of good rhythm and pace and play moved around great, and everybody played pretty good.  I hit a lot of good shots.
Q.  You must have felt pretty comfortable on the greens.
 LOREN ROBERTS:  I did.  I putted well.  The greens were rolling really, really good, not super fast.  Obviously you realize there was some softness out there so you could play pretty aggressively.  Our group made a lot of putts today.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 LOREN ROBERTS:  I played really good.  Yeah, I think the whole key to my rounds was that I didn't miss a fairway.  I drove it in every fairway today, and when the greens are pretty receptive you can put a score up.
Q.  You played really well at Royal Aberdeen.  Did that confidence carry over for you?
 LOREN ROBERTS:  I think so.  I played really solid with the exception of about three holes last week, and obviously here it's a totally different type of golf, and it's really a good just straightforward golf course.  I can't remember the last time I played a golf course where I saw no red or yellow stakes or white stakes really.  So it's just kind of go out and put it in the fairway and play good.
Q.  Everyone in your group was playing well.  How much does that motivate you to play well?
 LOREN ROBERTS:  Obviously for me this is only my second senior event, but it's a thrill to be able to play with Tom and Des.  I just enjoy being out there playing.  I like watching Tom play, and that spurred me on.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 LOREN ROBERTS:  I don't know.  I've been told that you can't call a putting green moss, but superintendents don't like that.  David Ogrin gave that to me in the locker room after Saturday at Oakmont in '96 when I shot 64 and just made a bunch of 20  or 30 footers.  Somebody picked it up and it kind of stuck.
Q.  Your general thoughts about where you stand so far after the first round.
 LOREN ROBERTS:  I'm off to a good start.  I was disappointed to bogey the last from the middle of the fairway, but I'm off to a good start.  This is a marathon, it's not a sprint.  You know, I've put myself in good shape starting out.
Q.  Do you think the greens will get tougher as the tournament goes on?
 LOREN ROBERTS:  Oh, without question.  The pins will get tougher.  I saw some of the pins for tomorrow.  They're already a little closer to the edges.  The golf course I don't imagine will get any water, so it will definitely firm up the golf course, and that's the way the Open is.  It just gets tougher every day.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT