SENIOR BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2005
Loren Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
A good round it seems from a professional point of view, what do you make of it?
LOREN ROBERTS:  I probably hit the ball a little better today, really solid.  I played really well the front nine and didn't make a lot of putts today.  Today I didn't putt like I did yesterday and that was the difference.
Q.  It seemed that way.  I joined you late on in the day and really the last three holes you had fabulous chances.
LOREN ROBERTS:  Yeah, and I made two bogeys on the back and they were just    I hit good shots, I just, you know, it just    the bounces didn't go my way today on a few holes.

And the double at nine when I really hit what I thought were two really good shots there, that just kind of crossed me up.  But I'm still in there.
Q.  What do you like to look for for the weekend?  Calmer conditions?  Because you're about fourth or fifth place at the moment.  What are your thoughts for the weekend?
LOREN ROBERTS:  I think if I can just keep hitting the ball the way I'm hitting it and just make a few more putts.  I wouldn't mind the weather to be a little tougher because that way the rest of the field can't crawl back in there.  So if it carries on like this that wouldn't be all that bad.  But sunshine would be great too.
Q.  Have you played anything like Royal Aberdeen before?
LOREN ROBERTS:  Not really.  I played links golf before, but I never played one quite this narrow off the tee.  It's pretty narrow and hard to get it in the fairway off the tee.  I don't think I hit more than four or five, six, fairways all day.
Q.  It's a good course for anything, including a senior Major.  Would it be any good for the Ryder Cup do you think?
LOREN ROBERTS:  Well, definitely.  I mean, yeah, it would definitely be good.  It's just, a lot of things can happen.  The holes can turn around so fast out here, without some good shots.  But it's a great golf course.
Q.  Thanks for your time.  Good luck on the weekend.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT