SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 9, 2012
Alec Johnson
Ryan Katz
Tim Vizzi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   Ryan, when you're at Oregon State, it looked like they didn't let you run a whole lot.   Is that pretty much not part of the offense up there?   What accounts for your very small number of running yards at Oregon State? 
RYAN KATZ:   Yeah, one, we didn't have to in the designed runs.   Two, I was wearing a knee brace.   So I was just required up there.   Wore a knee brace.   I don't have one on anymore.

Q.   They made you wear a knee brace at every game? 
RYAN KATZ:   Uh‑huh.

Q.   Did you ever have a knee injury? 
RYAN KATZ:   No, they made all the quarterbacks wear it on your plant leg.

Q.   So you can run a little faster now? 
RYAN KATZ:   Little bit.

Q.   How much do you enjoy running as kind of that part of being a quarterback? 
RYAN KATZ:   I like it.   There are a couple of designed runs in there this week.   So, yeah, it's fun.   It's fun to get out there, guys blocking for you.

Q.   How do you not play down to next week's opponent? 
RYAN KATZ:   Can't do it.   I think Hawaii was 1‑4 last week.   We did a good job of preparing all last week, and we've got to do the same thing this week.   We're trying to get back on a roll.   Get another win this week.   Just got to keep preparing like we did last week and try to keep this thing going.

Q.   You guys are at the midway point right now.   How would you assess?   Did you see yourselves in this position for either one of you guys?   Do you see yourselves in this position?   Did you think you would be better or worse in some categories? 
RYAN KATZ:   I hoped to be better.   3‑3 is not where we want to be around here.   So we need to work harder in the second half of the season to do better.

Q.   What is one thing you guys can do better or could have done better to have a better record?
ALEC JOHNSON:   Given up a lot of sacks as an offensive lineman, that doesn't allow Ryan to get the ball to the receivers.   We didn't do that up front.   So that's one area we need to improve on in the second half. 
We're running the ball all right.   Running backs are running hard.   At times there are not holes there and we need to block for them better up front.   So I think we can improve as an offense. 

Q.   The last two games did Fresno State and Hawaii, did they put some more guys in the box for you guys to have to block? 
ALEC JOHNSON:   Yeah.   Fresno, they blitz a lot and Hawaii has a lot of man‑to‑man coverage.   The backers blitz when they see the backs block.   So I would say they put a few more players in the box, both teams did.

Q.   Do you almost lick your chops, Ryan, when facing opponents like this who are not necessarily lesser quality, but you can score some points on? 
RYAN KATZ:   Not really.   To tell you the truth, we try to attack each week the same.   We want to win this week no matter who we're playing.   So like coach says all the time.   It's really about us.   It's about how we prepare and how we play, and not really worrying about what the opponent is doing or thinking.   We come up with a good game plan, and we try to execute on our part.

Q.   So, say you guys beat Colorado State by seven points.   Is it a disappointing win for you or still a win? 
RYAN KATZ:   A win is a win. 
ALEC JOHNSON:   No one's disappointed.   That's for sure.

Q.   So next week if you guys win by seven, okay, because I could see it the other way.   I could see you guys coming back and saying we only won by seven points against an opponent that wasn't necessarily up to par. 
RYAN KATZ:   A win is a win.

Q.   What did you guys learn about your offense after the last game?   Anything different?   Anything new? 
ALEC JOHNSON:   When we execute, we can put up points.   It comes down to that.   I think we executed pretty good.   Still see the film and there is room for improvement, definitely.   So trying to do that.   Work and prepare hard this week.

Q.   Of all the games you've played so far, which would you say is the most complete offensive performance? 
RYAN KATZ:   I don't know.   I don't know.   I don't really want to reflect right now.   We're worrying about this week.   Like I said, we're trying to get this win this week.

Q.   I know it's early in the week, but have you gotten a chance to look at the film yet of Colorado State and gotten a feel of what they like to do on defense? 
RYAN KATZ:   Yeah, we've been in the film room a little bit individually.   They've got a good defensive group.   They'll have guys that we've got to prepare for.   Coach Ludwig is coming up with the schemes this week, and we'll have to see what he wants to do.

Q.   What have you seen them do differently from past opponents or are they similar to your past opponents? 
RYAN KATZ:   They run a pretty base defense.   They've got a good defensive line.   Some good linebackers.   And like I said, we're just going to have to prepare for them.   We'll get a better beat on them today.   Today is when the game plan goes in and the scouting report and everything.   We'll get a better read on them this week.

Q.   Talk about when you were sliding down to just not go the extra yards when you saw a guy coming from the side or what would be the situation ‑‑ where coach said they're not coaching you to go down.   What out there did you see? 
RYAN KATZ:   Coach Ludwig tells me every week, protect the ball, protect the team.   He doesn't tell me to slide.   But protecting the team, don't try to get some silly extra yards.   When the play is done, the play is done.   It's kind of just gauging that.   I feel like I got a pretty good feel for that, and try not to take any unnecessary hits.

Q.   Any emphasis for homecoming week? 
RYAN KATZ:   Get a win.   We want a win.   That's exactly what we want to.   How about you, you got anything for homecoming?
TIM VIZZI:   No, get the W, execute on all three levels, offense, defense, and special teams.

Q.   How much do you like Brock in for Ryan when he gets scooting around out there?   And you're normally looking for him to throw the ball, now you have to block for him? 
TIM VIZZI:   When he tucks the ball and takes the run, you have to do everything you do to protect your quarterback.   He's one of our most important pieces on offense.   We need to protect him the best we can.

Q.   Talk a little bit about what you guys formed this year and having the successful passing attack.   What are you enjoying about that? 
TIM VIZZI:   Just the ability to go out there and throw the ball.   It starts with the run game, so it all begins with the run game.   The guys up front, what they do opens up the pass, and that's our attack on the field and every day in the game and in practice.

Q.   Ryan kind of needs you to soften him up a little bit, right? 
TIM VIZZI:   Definitely.

Q.   Yesterday did you guys get a bit of a confidence boost with this game against Hawaii last week or were they such a depleted team that you still feel like you've got some things to prove to yourselves in general? 
RYAN KATZ:   Definitely.   I think it's definitely a good win and bounce back.   Like I said, coming off with two tough losses, it's always good to get another win.   But, yeah, we want to keep this going.   This is the second half of the season, and we're going to keep it going this week.   We want another win, and after that, just keep it going.   Try to get better, like we did last week.   We got better in a few things and just learning from the film, learning from our mistakes.   Like I said, try not to make those mistakes again.

Q.   What what's your thought about Tim (Indiscernible)?
RYAN KATZ:   He's a we guy.   He's all about the team.   He's out there every week giving it his all.   I think a lot of guys are we guys on the team.   There are not a lot of individuals who are all about themselves.   That's what I like about it.

Q.   What impressed you when you first saw him? 
RYAN KATZ:   He's a hard worker.   I mean, every time I needed someone to throw during the summer, he was there throwing with me.   Tried to get me to come out snorkeling one time.   I couldn't do that.   But he's a hard worker, definitely.   That's what I like about him. 

Q.   Why wouldn't you go snorkeling? 
RYAN KATZ:   There was a report about a great white out there, and I don't really do that.

Q.   Did you try to get him to surf too? 
TIM VIZZI:   No, I'm not a surfer, but take advantage of La Jolla being 15 minutes away, so...

Q.   How do you feel you guys have been doing on special teams and is there anything you need to work on in that area? 
TIM VIZZI:   It all starts with protecting the ball, so that was one thing we emphasized on.   That we need to protect the ball and when make a big play to change the game.   So it all starts with catching it, and it just starts with my guys blocking for me.   That's what's been happening. 
Also on the kickoff team, we had a big turnover, so the momentum of the game could completely swing if we got a big play on special teams, so that's what we've been focusing and trying to do lately. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT