APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 13, 2017
Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova
Timea Babos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BABOS-PAVLYUCHENKOVA/Mirza-Strycova   
6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  First of all, how does it feel?  I know it's a new combination, the two of you.  How happy are you to have success so soon in just your second tournament?  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Yeah, it's amazing, because Timea, she's more experienced in doubles, I would say.  She has a lot more titles and done great in the Grand Slams, as well.   
So I'm probably more happy.  I don't know.  I'm really happy, because it's also nice to win a title in doubles.  I feel like we had also been playing really good together.   
TIMEA BABOS: Yeah, and on my part, you know, yeah, maybe I could be more experienced, but, you know, a title is always a title.  What's more important to me is to have fun on court and really to enjoy.   
I think at least we found a good balance on this -- like, probably you wouldn't even want to know what we're talking about during matches.  Like, yeah, so definitely it was a great week.  We beat some really good teams, the best teams the last two, three rounds.   
Yeah, I'm also definitely really, really happy.  And to start like this, our partnership together is important and promising.   
 Q.  What did you guys do well today that helped you win but also that matched up well against Barbora and Sania?  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: I think we actually didn't really have a particular, I would say, tactic.  We just went out there and tried to do our game, tried to dictate and play how we always played before, previous matches, and tried, like Timea said, we always try to enjoy and not put too much pressure.   
Also, it's always good preparation and good practice for singles match, as well, which is one of the goals was to have as many matches as we can as a doubles team together.   
 Q.  So do you feel that the doubles, the success you're having going deep in doubles draws, helps your singles, as well?  Doesn't make you too tired?  
TIMEA BABOS: Well, for me, when I started doubles, it was definitely for this.  I mean, she is also very young.  I'm even younger than her.  For me, it gave a lot of help and confidence for my singles.   
First, I was obviously better in doubles and having bigger results.  But, yeah, it really helped me and pushed me through on hard moments, also, in the singles part.   
And, yes, this is like really the beginning of the year, and already a Grand Slam is coming on Monday.  I think it's also important not just as a team to play matches before a Grand Slam but also just to feel the conditions better, and we can take even these matches as a preparation, also, for the singles for next week.   
 Q.  You have won twice here in Sydney, Timea.  What is it about this tournament that brings out your best?  
TIMEA BABOS: Yeah, it's funny, because this was actually my first year when I played singles here.  Last year I only played doubles.   
So, yeah, it's a great tournament.  In general, Australia one of my favorite countries if not the favorite.  So I really enjoy being here.  It's great atmosphere.   
Yeah, I don't know.  It's just fun to play here, so I hope I can come back many more times.   
 Q.  How did the two of you come to join up?  
TIMEA BABOS: I asked her.   
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Simple as that (smiling).  And I said yes.   
 Q.  But why did you approach Anastasia?  
TIMEA BABOS: So I had always fixed partners years before, and as the year was coming to an end last year, I felt like next year I would want to play maybe less doubles or focusing more on the singles, and I know Anastasia would want to do the same.   
But also, if we would put together our skills and our tennis, then we could do some, still, some great results in doubles.   
So I think the two can still balance each other out, so I thought that we could be pretty much the same position.  And why not to even try to put it together?   
 Q.  You had a great tournament in singles, as well, Anastasia.  How are you feeling about your game ahead of the Open, going deep in both draws?  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Yeah, so far, so good.  I feel good.   
Yeah, no pressure.  I mean, like Timea said, Grand Slam is starting on Monday.  You know, I think we are both ready to go.  But again, let's take it -- I want to enjoy this moment now, and then we will see.   
 Q.  How will you enjoy it?  Will there be a celebration?  A drink, dinner?  
TIMEA BABOS: Go to the airport.   
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Yeah, we're both flying tonight to Melbourne.  So, yeah, let's see.   
TIMEA BABOS: After Melbourne, we will have something.   
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Or during.  (Laughter.)   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT