AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 31, 2020
Timea Babos
Kristina Mladenovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BABOS-MLADENOVIC/Hsieh-Strycova
6-2, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Given they were one of your main rivals, what was the most important thing to do in the match today?
TIMEA BABOS: Well, you know, it's obviously always a tough warmup to go out there and play another final. I think we're just handling it better and better each time we go on court for such a special moment, for these special matches.
We had great memories from last time we played them, that's for sure. That was the final of the Masters in Shenzhen. We really controlled that match, played very well. Same as today. We had a plan which we really wanted to stick to.
They tried technically everything. They really tried to make us plus worse. They stepped up their game I think compared to the last match. I really think it was a lot tougher one.
But, yeah, as I said before, I think it's just amazing the way we're working together and how we handled the situations together.
Q. Happy to see the roof was closed? Did the conditions suit your game?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: Yeah, we just been outside walking to come over here, and it looks pretty heavy and hot conditions. Well, what can we say? We've played in the past in hot conditions. If it was meant to be open, we wouldn't mind. It's the way it is.
We have no power on that decision. It's the same for all the players on court. Once we've been told it's with the roof closed, was the same mindset: you got to be ready for everything.
Sure, it's not easy. All players, we had to adjust because that would have been the first match. We all played indoors, I believe. Yeah, it's tennis. You always have to adapt.
Q. What do you think you've been able to unlock in this matchup because of the domination today and the win in Shenzhen?
TIMEA BABOS: We cannot give you all the secrets, c'mon (laughter).
I mean, I think the way we match together, it's really tough to beat. Not only the connection we have tennis-wise, because I think our game really fit well, the emotional connection wouldn't be enough.
Yeah, just this gives an extra boost for every single match we play. We all have our ups and downs. We had it here, both of us. Still each match we went there and we gave our best and helped each other. At the end it turned out pretty solid because we went all the way without dropping a set. That actually never happened to us. That's also something new.
But yeah, really the way we are together and the way we are just fitting together, I think it's pretty much becoming unbeatable. We're best friends, and everything we do, we do it together. It just makes things easier.
Q. Kristina, you mentioned at the presentation you were working through things on and off the court. Are they private matters or can you share anything of what you were alluding to?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: Yeah, like she just said, we are all human beings. She's my best friend and we go through absolutely everything together.
There is, like, expectations. We both lost pretty early in the tournament in singles. It's tough because we are competitors. We wanted to do better. It's not always easy to kind of stick around and keep working and believing. It's the beginning of the season, so you expect much of yourself.
It makes it just so much easier to have your best friend by your side because you can fulfill those long days of work that a best friend or family around, I'm very grateful.
Yeah, like, it's a whole process of life, of living. It's not easy every day as tennis players. Lots of things are going on. Through doubts and whatever, I'm so lucky to have my best friend, which happened to be my doubles partner.
I'm lucky to have her not only outside of tennis but even more frequently on the same tournaments and even on the court, which pushes me to work even harder in a great mood and positive mood.
She's the kind of person that brings a smile on my face no matter any circumstances of life, of sport. Yeah, that's just the way it is.
I think at the end of the day you're grateful for simple things. This is moments, because at the end of the day and of the life, what really matters is, like, moment and happiness. You share it with your family. For me, she's family.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT