ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 3, 2011
Matt Tegenkamp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MATT TEGENKAMP: It was pretty tough at that time, knowing that you had put in the work but not seeing the results paid off.  
  
  Q. You've seen athletes getting the experience, and you've seen basically anybody that you're going to toe the line with now. Over the years, what have you learned the most from those guys? What has been the biggest difference between some of the East Africans that you've had to race, to when you come back to Jerry, and you and Chris and all those guys are training? What is the biggest difference between those two?   
 MATT TEGENKAMP: You know, I think everybody gives us our group a really hard time for not racing right after. And one of the reasons that we do that is because when we toe the line, we want to be absolutely ready to go at that moment. In and out, we can't do that with our competitors and show up at seven or eight races throughout the season and run sub 13 flat. It's not going to happen. So we take our time. We put in the hard work that's needed throughout the course of the season. That's not just in the fall, it's not just in the winter, it's all season long.   
 You have to be ready to show up to those races and suffer. I mean, they put it to you, and it's just the grind of everything. They make you want it. They give you -- you know what you're going to get with the other races, and it's going to be that way at the same time. It's tough. We're getting there. We're making strides.   
 I mean, Chris showed it in 2010. It's not there as much as either one of them, but he showed up, and he ran awesome. Absolutely fantastic. He was there at the end for three races.  
  
  Q. Do you feel, I mean, Chris kind of helped with that too. Do you feel like American distance running, you guys are putting in the work. Do you feel like once Chris kind of passed that level and then Galen broke it, do you feel like some of it was a mental feeling that was broken through to know that these times are attainable now?   
 MATT TEGENKAMP: Yeah, I think it starts all the way down. It's the coach/athlete relationship as well. It's one of those things that coaches are willing to push the envelope and the athletes are getting proper feedback. You've got once somebody sets a bar, nobody's going to settle for that bar. Especially if you're competitors at the time. It's easy if you say look at Bob Kennedy that's not competing anymore, he set the standard, and it's still kind of a standard. But we're starting to jump ahead of him a little bit and move on to guys that if we're showing up at races together, of course I want to beat him.   
 It's one of those things that's a little bit of bragging rights on the line because at the end of the day he's fastest.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT