AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
March 30, 2021
Emilia Migliaccio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. So this is your second time out here.  What did you learn from a couple years ago, and to follow up from that, how are you hoping to apply that this year?
 EMILIA MIGLIACCIO:   Yeah, a couple years ago I learned that your long irons need to be good, so I've been working a lot with that.  And your speed putting needs to be good.  Greens are pretty firm.  So you need to control sort of the roll-out.
 Yeah, I feel great about that.  The practice round went really well.  So I'm excited to play tomorrow.
 Q. And do you think players who have played out here before have an advantage, either having seen the course or just having gone to Augusta?  Do you find an advantage?
 EMILIA MIGLIACCIO:   Yeah, I think there's definitely a little bit of an advantage.  I mean, everyone here is such a good player and everyone has played at an elite level.  But I think being at Augusta last time and just all the hype that went with it and the excitement and playing Champions Retreat and playing the practice round at Augusta, it's always nice to have some rounds under your belt beforehand.
 Q. What were your preparations for the tournament?  Have they changed?
 EMILIA MIGLIACCIO:   Preparations haven't changed too much.  I've always tried to dial in my ball-striking and be solid six feet and in and have good lag putting.  So pretty of the same.  Our greens at Wake Forest have been really fast, so it's been great preparation in that way.
 Q. As a returning player, you know what the experience will be like tonight.  Are you still excited for it?
 EMILIA MIGLIACCIO:   Oh, yeah.  I'm so excited for it.  I mean, the dinner will be amazing and I can't wait to see everyone, all my friends and to be at Augusta.  It's going to be great.
 Q. What are your expectations for the week?
 EMILIA MIGLIACCIO:   I mean, every tournament I go to I want to win obviously.  But you don't focus on that.  You focus on one shot at a time.  So I'm just going to try to play each hole as best I can and we'll see where it goes from there.
 Q. What are your impressions of the course?
 EMILIA MIGLIACCIO:   Course great and greens are firm.  The course is pretty long.  You need to have good -- your irons need to be dialed in and you have to make a couple long ones.
 Q. What are your favorite memories from 2019?
 EMILIA MIGLIACCIO:   My favorite memories is definitely the 18th hole, because I knew [Jennifer Kupcho] needed a two-putt to win and she putted it and I thought it was going to be so far by if it didn't hit the ball but it hit the hole, so it's okay.  Definitely having her just make that putt and being able to congratulate her was a great experience.
 Q. It's been only two years, but did you notice any kind of uptick in interest in women's golf or people talking about this event?
 EMILIA MIGLIACCIO:   Yeah, I think this tournament has been such a turning point for women's golf.  So many people who talk to me, even, you know, people at Wake, athletes who don't really follow golf, they know about the Augusta National Women's Amateur.  Even at MacGregor Downs, my home golf club and even college golf now that NCAA is being aired, I find more people are coming to me telling me that they are watching more women's golf and more college golf, and it's awesome.  It's such a great feeling.
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT