THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2013
Peter Dawson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  HAZEL IRVINE:  It's a hot day, tempers are fraying
clearly.  What's your response to some of the criticisms leveled
at some of these pin positions.
PETER DAWSON:  We do have some fantastic weather,
unusual, really.  It seems like we got links conditions like this
far more often than we've had them in recent years.  But we've got
the conditions here that we really like to have, hard, fast,
running conditions.  And we set up the golf course to test the
players' course management strategy, I think as much as anything.
I heard criticisms for example of the 17th hole where it
is actually playing like the 17th hardest hole in the course right
now.  But you really have to hit your second shot or your approach
beyond the hole to have a sensible putt coming back.  If you leave
your second shot and your third shot short of that flag stick,
you're going to have great difficulty getting down in two from
there.
Similarly on the 18th we're looking for players to have
the hit the fairway off the tee and then just carry the cross
bunkers -- as a player out there I'm looking at has done now -- in
order to leave an uphill putt to the flag stick.  If you're out of
position and your ball goes beyond the 18th, you're going to have
difficulty getting down in two.   Players are well under par on
that hole, which the course is playing very short.
We're obviously very conscious of player comment and
we'll take that into account tonight.  When we decide how
greenskeeping staff overnight is going to set up the course
tomorrow.  We're very happy with the scoring, it's about what we
would expect, 5-under par is about where we'd expect it to be.  A
good number of players under par.  I do understand that some
players get very frustrated.  Ian Poulter, I know, for example
bogeyed three out of the last four holes.  His comments will be
taken and we'll have a look at it.  But we're still very satisfied
with the course.  It's playable, but indeed very testing.HAZEL IRVINE:  The greens staff have been watering.
You've been making sure that it's a really difficult balance
action I'm sure, to find the speed that you want, but also trying
to manage these very tricky conditions, that you're obviously
faced with.PETER DAWSON:  Well, it is.  We're very reliant on two things: the
science of the Sports Turf Research Institute.  We're doing
measurements day and night of water content, of greens, green
speeds, trueness, smoothness, hardness, and so on, so we have the
science.  And also we have the great experience of Colin Irvine
and his team here at Muirfield, who have a great track record of
producing this course in wonderful conditions.  And a combination
of those two is I think giving us the right results, very testing,
tough.  I guess it's The Open Championship.HAZEL IRVINE:  Indeed.  In your view, right now it is far
from unplayable.PETER DAWSON:  Far from unplayable, but we do hear player
comment and we're not so insular as to ignore it.HAZEL IRVINE:  Okay.  Peter thanks so much, I'm sure you
and Colin and the team will be discussing at length the measures
you'll take over the coming hours, but we appreciate you coming
by.PETER DAWSON:  Certainly.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT