THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2013
Peter Dawson
Jim McArthur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MALCOLM BOOTH:  Ladies and gentlemen, good morning.
Welcome to The R&A's Eve of The Open Championship press
conference.  My name is Malcolm Booth, director of communications
for the R & A, and I'll introduce the panel, who I know will be
familiar to many of you.
On my far right, is Johnnie Cole-Hamilton, executive
director of championships for the R & A.  Next to him is Peter
Dawson, chief executive of the R & A.  And to my immediate right
is Jim McArthur, chairman of our Championship Committee.
Jim, I think you're going to open us up with a few
comments.
JIM MCARTHUR:  Yes.  Thanks, Malcolm.
Good morning, everyone.  On behalf of the R & A welcome
to the 142nd staging of The Open Championship, and specifically to
our Eve of Championship media briefing.  Thank you all for being
here, and on behalf of my colleagues, I hope you have a
productive, rewarding and enjoyable week at the magnificently
presented Muirfield.  I'll begin by thanking Derrick Lawrenson and
the AGW on behalf of us all for a very enjoyable 75th anniversary
dinner last night.  Special thanks for Iain Carter for hosting
such a splendid evening.
Everything is ready for the championship that lies ahead
of us.  The culmination of at least two years' hard work.  As always, our aim is straight forward:  To provide a true links test
for the world's top golfers, and to deliver the best spectator
experience for golf fans here in the UK and around the world on
television and online.  First a few opening remarks from me, and
we will be happy to answer your questions at the end.
We are very much looking forward to the start of play.
And we have real momentum behind us.  There is massive European
interest in the progress U.S. Open champion Justin Rose and great
expectations in the United States for Phil Mickelson, winner of
last week's Scottish Open title.
While our reigning champion Ernie Els is synonymous with
nail-biting finishes.  Take last year at Royal Lytham and at
Muirfield in 2002, when you will recall we witnessed the first
ever four-man playoff in an Open champion.  Ernie Els returns to
Muirfield as last year's winner, and the winner the last time the
championship was played here.  Not since James Braid in 1906 has
this situation prevailed, and by a strange twist of fate here at
Muirfield.
With regard to this year's championship, the main things
I want to focus on are the golf course, the quality of the field
and the champions who have won here, and the continued investment
we are making in The Open.
The golf course, we believe, is in truly outstanding
condition, and the weather over the last few weeks has helped
enormously in presenting the course in true links style.  I hope
the weather continues along the same lines, and the latest weather
forecast we have says it will remain mostly dry and settled for
the championship, with a good deal of warm sunshine on Thursday
and Friday, although cloudier conditions are expected for the
weekend, with dull and misty starts possible on Saturday and
Sunday.  Good Scottish summer weather.
Muirfield, as I'm sure you're all aware, has often been
described as a fair but tough championship test.  And with the
alterations which have been made since the last time The Open was
here, we are confident that the course will again present a tough
but fair challenge to the best golfers in the world, and a worthy
champion will emerge at the finish.
We have tightened the course since 2002, particularly at
the approaches to greens and added almost 200 yards to the
distance.  Holes 7, 13 and 16 are as they were in 2002, and subtle
alterations have been made over the rest of the course, including
new tees at 2, 9, 14, 15, 17 and 18, new bunkers at 1, 8, 9, 10
and 11 and several bunker relocations at other holes.
Driving accuracy is very important at Muirfield.  And is
a great test of driving right from the first hole.  Avoiding the
bunkers is essential.
The rough is the course's primary defense, and is
currently in perfect condition.  Good scoring will depend upon
finding the fairway from the tee.
The rough is long and a challenge to play from,
especially when the wind is strong.  Players need to be aware
constantly of the wind direction, as they seldom play consecutive
holes on the same tack.
Finally, in my humble opinion 16, 17 and 18 are among the
best set of finishing holes in the world.  So we are confident
that Muirfield will continue to test the best players of today,
just as it tested the players of yesterday.
The course is a favorite among competitors, and this has
been reinforced by the comments of those practicing over the
course last week.  The feedback has been very positive, and we are
looking forward to a great field on a great golf course.
With regard to the quality of the field, we have 156
players from 27 countries.  And we are delighted from an
International perspective, particularly as the players have some
connections with the R & A development work around the world.  Not
only is the field International, but we also have 15 past
champions playing, and 74 out of the top 75 in the world.  And
that's only because Steve Stricker did not enter.
There are 36 first-time participants, 7 amateurs, and for
the first time since Sergio Garcia in 1998, the current British
boys champion, Matthew Fitzpatrick, together with 24 former Walker
Cup players.
The greatest golfers of every era have won here in the
past, including Henry Cotton, Gary Player, Jack Nicklaus, Tom
Watson, Sir Nick Faldo and Ernie Els.  And going way back Hilton,
Vardon, Braid, Ray and Hagen.  We're sure that this year's winner
will also be in the top class category. Now investment in the Open Championship:  We continue
  with our efforts to provide the very best facilities for our Open
  spectators.  Specifically at Muirfield we have invested over two
  million pounds in enhancements to the spectator experience.
  Perhaps the two most exciting innovations are investments in a
  state-of-the-art Wi-Fi network and four large LED screens, score
  and information boards allowing spectators to keep up-to-date with
  live scoring and coverage of play from almost anywhere on the golf
  course.
  The Wi-Fi is not just leading technology in golf, but it
  represents a first on this scale at any championship.  This is a
  leading technology project in sport.  Building a Wi-Fi network to
  serve this kind of acreage and tens of thousands of people is
  ambitious.  And we are cautiously optimistic that this has been
  achieved.
  Our goal is to provide a modern, unrivaled spectator
  experience in golf, and we hope to work with our partners,
  Straight Up Technology, to progress this technology over the next
  few years to achieve that.
  Our four new electronic score information boards around
  the course - three at the three par-3s, 7, 13 and 16, and one at
  the 17th green - will provide information on players, scoring and
  provide some highlights from around the course.  We believe that
  this combined with the Wi-Fi infrastructure will offer our
  spectators a fantastic and enhanced experience.
  Also recognizing that spectators nowadays like to do
  other things at the Open Championship, as well as eat, drink and
  watch golf, we meet this demand through attractions like the R & A
  Swing Zone, where free lessons are available all week, and the
  HSBC Golf Zone, which provides many opportunities for spectators
  to test their skills and have a chance to win a host of daily
  prizes.
  After each Open Championship the R & A commissions
  independent research into economic benefit that The Open brings to
  an area.  Last year's Open's Championship at Royal Lytham & St.
  Annes delivered a 65 million pound benefit to Lancashire from the
  week-long event.  This headline figure included 28 million bumped
  directly into the Lancashire economy, by spectators, organizers,
  sponsors, the media and the players themselves, as well as a
  destination-marketing benefit worth 37 million derived from
  exposure on global television.
  We believe a similar figure of between 60 to 70 million
  will be generated for East Lothian and Edinburgh.  Many people
  will travel from outside Scotland and overseas, and we are sure
  that the businesses and local residents will provide a warm
  welcome.  The Open is one of the world's great sports events.  And
  through exposure on global television will deliver a healthy
  legacy for golf and other tourism to the region.
  In addition, we know that the championship will inspire
  participation by local people, both young and old, in the sport.
  We're expecting a total crowd of 160,000, and hoping for 170,000
  over the week.  And around 4,000 hours of televised coverage,
  reaching five hundred million households worldwide.
  We are very fortunate to have a strong list of eight
  patrons, who support The Open, namely Doosan, HSBC, MasterCard,
  Mercedes-Benz, Nikon, Polo Ralph Lauren, Rolex, and our latest
  patron NTT Data, in addition to our much valued official
  suppliers.
  Finally I should also mention one further venture that we
  undertook last week at St. Andrews Square in Edinburgh.  Where
  over three days we gave the general public a true flavor of the
  oldest Major Championship in golf.  It was called The Open in the
  Square, where we had a free PGA coaching, a golf simulator,
  putting competition, a giant screen showing great moments from
  past championships, photographs taken with the Claret Jug, as well
  as ticket and merchandise sales.  The event created a high level
  of interest, helped to showcase The Open and golf in general, and
  we believe strengthen with the link with Edinburgh, Scotland's
  capital city, where many spectators will be staying this week.
  Over three days in the square almost 1,000 people took
  advantage of a free golf lesson, with one of eight local PGA
  officials, and 150 of them had never held a golf club in their
  life.  800 people took a putting challenge, and eight more tested
  their skills in a golf simulator.  Finally, 1,200 people posed
  with the Claret Jug trophy and the moment captured for posterity
  was e-mailed to their friends.
  The Open is growing, meeting the challenges of the future
  and is working for golf.  I'm sure you share my enthusiasm for a
  great golfing week ahead.  Thank you very much for listening.
  Peter, anything to add?
  PETER DAWSON:  Thank you, Jim.  I'd like to echo your
  thanks to the AGW for an excellent dinner last night.  Thank you
  very much indeed.
  I think it's no exaggeration to say that in my time at
  the R & A with direct involvement in The Open Championship, which
  goes back to 2000, factors have combined this year to make this
  the best course setup we've ever had in that period.  The course
  is just as we want it.  It's hard.  It's fast.  It's in wonderful
  condition.  The rough is just right.  I think the players are all
  enjoying it.  So factors have come together on top of Muirfield,
  which is a wonderful golf course in its own right, to make this
  the best setup I've seen in my time, and we're absolutely
  delighted with it.
  I'd just like to add, as well, that not my subject,
  really, but these technological enhancements that Jim has
  described are really very exciting.  Historically it's been
  wonderful to come to The Open Championship and experience the
  atmosphere.  But, of course, you could only watch what's in front
  of you.  Now with this new technology, you can also watch all of
  the golf that's going on around the golf course, through the Wi-Fi
  network that we've set up and enhanced by the big screens and
  electronic scoreboards around.  So you can both get the atmosphere
  of the event, which is wonderful, but also keep more in touch with
  the state of play all around the golf course.
  We're on a bit of a journey with this.  This year is
  something that we've begun in earnest.  It may take us two or
  three years to perfect.  It's one of the main reasons we
  reintroduced mobile phones to the championship, because we could
  see this coming.  And I think it's going to be a massive benefit
  for spectators.  So I just wanted to make those two points before
  we move to questions, which I think we now can, Malcolm.MALCOLM BOOTH:  Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like
  to ask a question, we've got microphones circulating.
Q.  You say that it is a great test of driving, which
    obviously it is, and you've got the hard and fast conditions you
    want.  But are you content that some players will use the driver
    precious few times and indeed a few are planning not to use the
  driver at all?
  JIM MCARTHUR:  That's their choice, obviously.  I think
  part of golf is golf course management.  Some people are
  comfortable with a driver in their hand and some others are not.
  I think Muirfield certainly is one of those courses where some
  people might not use the driver because they're not comfortable
  with it.  They want to get the ball on the fairway and using irons
  the whole way around, that may be the way to do it.
  But we think that's all parts of links golf, particularly
  in these conditions, where the ground is getting very firm and the
  ball is running a long way.
Q.  Peter, can I ask, are you disappointed by the first
    minister's position not to attend The Open?  And do you feel his
    non-attendance hinders the debate on single-sex membership or
  helps?
  PETER DAWSON:  I think at the R & A we've been through
  over 250 years of existence without getting into political
  comment, and I don't really intend to break that rule here.
  Obviously the whole issue of gender and single-sex clubs has been
  pretty much beaten to death recently.  And we do, I assure you,
  understand that this is a divisive.  It's a subject that we're
  finding increasingly difficult, to be honest.
  In recent months we've been at great pains, I think, to
  try to explain some of the facts about this matter.  Single-sex
  clubs are in a very small minority in the UK.  Half of them are
  women only, half of them are men only.  They're perfectly legal.
  In our view they don't do anyone any harm.  And we think the right
  of freedom of association is important.  And we've explained our
  view that we think they have no material adverse affect on
  participation.
  On the other hand, the media are, with seemingly
  boundless energy, I think, and enthusiasm, giving out the message
  that this is an issue, and that such clubs should be condemned to
  extinction, and we shouldn't be using one to stage The Open
  Championship.  And we understand that view, too.  We've got, as
  you mentioned, politicians posturing, we've got interest groups
  attacking the R & A, attacking The Open, and attacking Muirfield.
  As you can see, I've made a few notes about it (laughter).
  To be honest, our natural reaction is to resist these
  pressures, because we actually don't think they have very much
  substance.  But I'd like to stress we're not so insular as to fail
  to recognize the potential damage that campaigns like this can do
  to The Open Championship.  And it is our Championship Committee's
  responsibility to do what is best for The Open.  And to maximize
  the benefits which The Open brings, not just to golf, but also to
  the local area.  And, by the way, in huge funding for women's
  golf.  I think in the last ten years we've put, as best I can
  estimate, looking at the figures, about 30 million pounds into
  women's golf.  And that's what The Open Championship's success
  brings with it.
  So it's not all bad.  I think we're on the verge of what
  promises to be one of the very best Opens and a huge number of
  people have put in an enormous amount of work to make this
  championship happen.  I'd like to suggest that we get behind it
  now.  Let's make it the success it deserves.  And when things are
  a bit quieter, after the championship, I'm quite sure we'll be
  taking a look at everything to see what kind of sense we can make
  of it for the future.  But I think right now our concentration has
  to be on this wonderful event and making it a success.
Q.  Peter, you could rightly claim to be the most open of the
    Majors, of the four Majors, and as just described from 27 nations.
    But this is being staged in Britain.  Do you think it may be that
    the pendulum has gone a little bit too far, when you consider
    there are only 17 English players, the lowest I think in my
    memory, anyway, and there are 49 from America.  Has it maybe gone
  a little bit too far the International way?
  PETER DAWSON:  I think that's a reflection on how golf
  has grown globally.  Actually I think the percentage of American
  players in the championship is probably quite low at the moment,
  compared with ten or a dozen years ago.  But the International
  spread of the field across the 27 countries, into Asia, into
  Africa, into South America, Australasia and so on, has been very
  considerable.  And we pride ourselves on being the most
  international major.  We want to continue that way.
  And I think it's for English and British and golfers, by
  and large, to get up there with the rest of them, as many of them
  have at top level.  We'd like to see more home players.  But I
  think our qualification system is such that it gives everyone a
  fair chance from wherever they come from.
Q.  (No microphone)  For example, the international
    qualifying at Sunnydale was won by an American.  So I wondered if
  you thought that that was quite right.
  PETER DAWSON:  The question was, IFQ at Sunnydale was won
  by an American, and do I think that's quite right.  IFQ at
  Sunnydale is, as you know, targeted to be convenient to European
  Tour players, and I think that American was playing on the
  European circuit at the time, so that's fair enough.
Q.  As you said, single-sex clubs are legal, but morally,
  what's the difference between men only and whites only?
  PETER DAWSON:  Oh, goodness me, I think that's a
  ridiculous question, if I may say so.  There's a massive
  difference between racial discrimination, anti-Semitism where
  sectors of society are downtrodden and treated very, very badly,
  indeed.  And to compare that with a men's golf club I think is
  frankly absurd.  There's no comparison whatsoever.
Q.  Peter, golf is one of the new boys when it comes to the
    Olympics in 2016.  One of the oldest Olympic sports at the moment
    in particular sprinting is in a meltdown over drugs, allegations,
    and failed tests, et cetera.  Is that something that maybe
    concerns you from a golfing point of view with the scrutiny that
    being in the Olympics brings?  And could you share with us any
  testing arrangements that are in place this week?
  PETER DAWSON:  Well, golf is very aware of its
  responsibilities as an Olympic sport, and indeed as a sport to
  ensure that it's clean and drug free.  The tours have been doing
  extensive testing now for some years, I'm pleased to say, with no
  serious, adverse findings.  But we're always, and I was in a
  meeting as recently as yesterday, to see what improvements and
  enhancements could be made to the anti-doping policies in golf for
  the future.  So we're right on the case, as far as that's
  concerned.
  As far as this week is concerned, we're operating the
  European Tour anti-doping policy and there will be drug testing.
  We never advertise how it's to be targeted and how it's to be
  done, but drug tests will be conducted this week.
Q.  Just in reference to your earlier remarks, I mean you
    made it seem as if there was a restless urge to drive Muirfield
    into extinction.  But I'm not sure that's really the case.  No one
    disputes Muirfield's right to cite its membership policy, but is
    the issue that not that the R & A is avowedly committed to growing
    the game throughout the world, and yet you bring The Open, the
    greatest championship, to a venue that excludes half the
  population.  Is that not a morale dilemma?
  PETER DAWSON:  I understand the point, obviously.  What I
  dispute is the fact of the matter that it does harm participation.
  I think The Open Championship at this absolutely magnificent venue
  enhances participation hugely.  It's going to be watched by
  hundreds of millions of people around the world, whatever the
  numbers are.  And I think that we will find that golfers, men and
  women, are inspired by what they see.  I don't think people are
  seeing there thinking, "oh, this wonderful place, but..." I really
  don't.  But we're aware of that view.
  I don't quite regard it as quite such a morale issue.  I
  think the practical side of it takes over in my mind.  But we're
  aware of the view.  And to think that it would be a good thing for
  The Open Championship not to play it here, and perhaps to reduce
  the number of venues from nine to six in the UK, I could only
  imagine would do great harm to the championship, and not enhance
  it at all.
Q.  Peter, you talked about the spectator experience.  Back
    in the day when you used to come to The Open Championship there
    used to be something, it wasn't a merchandise tent, it was a golf
    show.  And it was a large show and a lot of different vendors and
    a lot of things that people participated in.  And today's version
    is quite different than the previous version.  Can you tell me if
    your plan is to stick with this type of version or do you see
  yourselves going back to something that was more all-encompassing?
  PETER DAWSON:  Well, I think you're right, that we have
  lost a certain charm of the marketplace, the souk, if you'd like,
  of historical artifacts and things. Two Aspects to this:   The Open Championship has to be a
  financial success to keep reinvesting in the championship, and to
  keep up with the other Majors around the world.  All of the
  Majors, especially in the United States, make a good deal of
  profit from merchandising.  We were not doing that, and so it's
  natural that we would try to put in a merchandising operation,
  which we have done, and is generally very popular, judging by the
  sales that come through it.
  I acknowledge that in that acts we have dropped what was
  a fairly popular spectator facility, but I think our need here is
  to actually reinvigorate the amount of exposure that the heritage
  of the game gets at The Open Championship, and we are looking at
  that in the future, although that might not involve going back to
  exactly what we had before.
Q.  You said in your introductory remarks that it's number of
    factors that come together to make this the best setup in your
    time.  Clearly the weather was one of those.  The quality of the
    course, I imagine is another, did you have anything else in mind
  when you were saying that?
  PETER DAWSON:  I think the course changes that we've made
  have gone in extremely well and have been very effective.  The
  general expertise of the greens staff here and the very specific
  assistance we now get from the Sports Turf Research Institute,
  STRI, we were actually in a quantitative way measuring the
  performance of the golf course in terms of hardness, green speed,
  trueness, smoothness, water content and all these things.  It's a
  much more scientific operation than perhaps it was a few years
  ago.
Q.  It's been six years, almost to the day, since Gary Player
    spoke about the dangers of performance-enhancing drugs in golf.
    In the years that have passed, have you spoken to Gary Player
  about what he knows?  And what have you done about it?
  PETER DAWSON:  Yes, I have spoken to Gary Player, and I
  don't think I found very much out, to be honest, in specific
  terms.  But you just can't be complacent about these things.  All
  you can do, I think, is to ensure that players are properly
  educated, and that your drug-testing regime or anti-doping
  policies do as much as they can to trap miscreants.  We mustn't
  been complacent here.
  I have no particular evidence of a problem.  Everything I
  hear is anecdotal and hasn't had very much specific behind it that
  I can latch on to, to be honest.
Q.  Yesterday Tiger Woods came in and said he felt that water
    had been applied to the golf course between Monday and his play
    yesterday morning.  I was wondering if that was the case.  And
    also many of the players are under the impression that the R & A
    is, with the USGA planning, to do something about distance.  The
    PGA Tour even referenced that in their statement related to the
  anchoring ban.  Where are you on that?
  PETER DAWSON:  Well, the position on watering the golf
  course is that we are most evenings doing a minimal amount of
  watering to insure that the golf course stays alive in these
  conditions, and all we're trying to do is keep a balance between
  the water content that's being lost during the day and putting a
  little bit on at night.  And we're just trying to make it lose a
  little bit more water content rather than a lot more too quickly.
  Our position on hitting distance remains constant since
  2002, since the USGA and the R & A issued its joint statement of
  principles.  That said that there was a line in the sand, but if
  hitting distances started to increase again, action will be taken.
  That remains the case.  Hitting distances since that statement
  have not increased materially at all, they're absolutely on a
  plateau, and that continues to be the case.
  JIM MCARTHUR:  May I just add to Peter's comments about
  watering, we felt at the beginning of the week we had the golf
  course the way we wanted it.  The task now is to keep it there,
  and keep it through.  And there are certain areas, because of the
  weather, that are beginning to get a bit hard.  So we're doing
  selective watering here and there.  And I think that's making a
  difference and it's keeping the course exactly the way it should
be.
PETER DAWSON:  The hardness is going up a little bit day
  by day, so we've got it nicely in balance.
Q.  You mentioned how difficult the buildup has been with
    this championship, with the ongoing debate about the men-only
    membership.  Do you accept that realistically something has to
    change, whether it's from the R & A's point of view or from the
    clubs, simply to avoid this debate rearing its head every time we
  come back to a club like Muirfield?
  PETER DAWSON:  Well, I don't think we're in the business
  of doing something to avoid debate, frankly.  We will have a good
  look at what people are saying, and try to take a view about all
  of this and find the most sensible way forward.  We understand
  it's a polarizing issue.  We've been through other polarizing
  issues - recently with anchoring, for example - and you eventually
  come out with a conclusion.
  I'm absolutely not going to pre-empt what's going to come
  out of this.  I wouldn't even want to call it a review, but we're
  very conscious of the disparity of view on this subject.
Q.  I guess you're not going to elaborate at all on what
    discussions might be after this Open on the gender issue.  Has
    there been any discussion with the three clubs with considering
  changing their membership policies?
  PETER DAWSON:  I'm absolutely not able to say anything
  more.  We do believe that membership policy is a matter of the
  club's.  And we take a long way, I think, to be a hard push to
  push us off that position.  We happen to believe that very
  strongly.
Q.  The question about slow play.  Can you enlighten us on
    what the timing policy is.  Last year you said it would be
  stringently applied, but I don't believe there were any penalties.
  JIM MCARTHUR:  There were no penalties last year.  Again,
  we are applying a pace-of-play position stringently this year.  We
  have slightly reduced the round time from what we had at Royal
  Lytham & St. Annes last year.  We are down to 4:25 now for the
  first two days, and 3:41 for the final two days.
  I think we are making progress here.  As I said last
  year, this is a bitty of a journey rather than a solution
  immediately.  And we are working with everybody.  I think there is
  a mood amongst many players nowadays to improve the pace of play
  as well.  We're getting much more cooperation.  I know it's not
  professional, the Amateur Championship, the pace of play was good.
  The IFQ at Sunnydale, the pace of play was good there.  So we are
  getting more and more players helping us to achieve our goals
  here, and I think we will continue to progress until we get to
  what we consider to be reasonable round times in the future.
Q.  Back to Gary Player and the doping issue.  You said you
    didn't learn much from your conversation with Gary Player.  Can I
    ask, did one of the world's greatest ever golfers, confirm to you
  that he knew of players that were taking banned substances?
  PETER DAWSON:  No, he did not.
Q.  That is what he said six years ago, he said he knew of
  players --
  PETER DAWSON:  Just to make that clear, what I mean by
  that is, he certainly didn't name any names, and therefore, I'm
  not sure what you can do with that information, other than be
  aware there may be a problem, and put in the policies to deal with
  it.
Q.  How hard did you press him?  Because these are quite
  serious allegations from a very, very, very respected golfer.
  PETER DAWSON:  Yes, well, quite frankly, I don't remember
  how hard I pressed him.  It's quite a long time ago now.
Q.  You got a bit upset earlier about the comparison between
    whites-only and men-only clubs, but you said, you don't regard it
    as a moral issue.  It doesn't do anyone any harm.  Could you just
    explain to the ten women in the room why racism is unacceptable
  and sexism clearly still is?
  PETER DAWSON:  Well, I don't really think, to be honest,
  and we could sit here all day and debate this, but I don't really
  think, to be honest, that a golf club, which has a policy of being
  a place where like-minded men or, indeed, like-minded women, go
  and want to play golf together and do their thing together ranks
  up against some of these other forms of discrimination.  I really
  just don't think their comparable, and I don't think they're
  damaging.  And it's just kind of, for some people, a way of life
  that they rather like.  I don't think in doing that they're
  intending to do others down or intending to do others any harm.
  It's just a way of life that some of these people like.  And
  realistically, that's all it is.
  You can dress it up to be a lot more, if you want.  But
  on the Saturday morning when the guy gets up or the lady gets up
  and out of the marital bed, if you like, and goes off and plays
  golf with his chums and comes back in the afternoon, that's not,
  on any kind of par with racial discrimination or anti-Semitism or
  any of these things.  It's just what people kind of do.
Q.  Back to the drug issue, the PGA Tour does not have a
    whereabouts program in place.  Does the European Tour?  And if
  not, when will golf come in line with Olympic protocol?
  PETER DAWSON:  The answer to that is that players who are
  in the pool for Olympic selection will come under the
  International Golf Federation anti-doping policy in the months
  prior to the games, and that will include a whereabouts coverage,
  as you've indicated.  So as soon as they come into the
  International Golf Federation policy, which is ahead of the
  Olympic games, these players will be subject to the whereabouts
  rules.
Q.  Peter, have the events in Belfast over the past few days
  had a negative effect on the Open going back to Portrush?
  PETER DAWSON:  We're still at quite an early stage in the
  investigation.  And obviously the political situation in any area,
  be it Northern Ireland or any other part of the country, is a
  factor.  But it's far too early to say much more than that, I
  think, at the moment.
Q.  Peter, sorry to come back to flog a dead horse on the women side of things. Two questions rolled into one: First of all, do you think if the Women's British Open wa to be staged not at St. Andrews, but at a women-only club, do you think the media would be kicking up such a stink about it? And has the R&A has become a lightning for for this issue?PETER DAWSON:  I think the media would have to answer
  that one.  I know St. Andrews is very much looking forward to the
  Ricoh Women's Open coming again for the second time.  And the R &
  A clubhouse is being thrown open to the ladies to use.  And it
  adds a great deal of color to the town.  It's a terrific event.
  Next year I think the British Ladies' Amateur is going to
  Royal St. Georges.  So there's no exclusion of championships or
  play due to these few single-sex clubs being around.
Q.  But has the R & A become a hostage to fortune on the
  issue, perhaps?
  PETER DAWSON:  I'll have to let you be the judge of that,
  I think, to be honest.
Q.  Peter, have you received any specific feedback from the
    Tour professionals this week on the anchoring ban?  Anything new
  you've heard this week?
  PETER DAWSON:  Actually, no one has specifically
  discussed it with me in those terms, at all.  I've had a brief
  conversation with a couple of players.  But nothing of any
  substance.
Q.  Peter, European Golf Association figures show across the
    last ten years a steeper decline in female membership at UK golf
    clubs than for male or junior members.  How much of a concern is
    that to you?  And how much responsibility do you feel on behalf of
    the R & A to do or to be seen to be doing something to help arrest
  that steeper slide?
  PETER DAWSON:  It's of great concern.  We have a series
  of meetings called the Golf Forum in the UK, where the R & A meets
  with England Golf, Golfing Union of Wales, the men and women in
  Scotland and in Ireland, and we discuss this subject to death, to
  be honest.  But no one as yet has come up with -- apart from some
  very, very successful program at specific clubs in Wales, no one
  has come up with a good answer to turn this around.  But we'll
  continue to be trying.  It's a subject that we give a lot of
  attention to, but I can't claim any great success yet.
Q.  You've painted a jolly picture of how much fun can be had
    as a member of a single-sex club, but would you accept that the
    rules are slightly different for the R & A given that you're
  making the rules for the game worldwide?
  PETER DAWSON:  Well, the R & A is conscious of that.  As
  you know, it's not the club anymore that does this, but there's
  still a very close connection between the R & A companies and the
  club.  And I think it's certainly beholden on us to insure that
  our governance committees are representative of the world at large
  in golf.  We have taken some steps in that direction, but I'm sure
  there will be more to come.
Q.  Peter, Alex Hammond, we understand, has written, as has
    the sports minister, to the club, Muirfield, protesting the policy
  of exclusion for members.  Has he petitioned you about this issue?
  PETER DAWSON:  Not directly, no.
Q.  I'm wondering about the view of your sponsors and patrons
    to the gender issue.  And are they part of the discussion?  And
    secondly, is there a concern that the issue puts off sponsors and
    their future relationship between the golf and the commercial
  sector?
  PETER DAWSON:  We are very fortunate at The Open
  Championship to have a very strong group, and a growing group, a
  group that has been growing, at least, of patrons, as we call them
  and official suppliers.  I think those companies value being
  associated with the oldest Major Championship in golf and being
  associated with everything that the R & A does with the commercial
  success at The Open Championship.  And I think they see those as
  great positives.  That's not to say, of course, that those
  companies are not aware of these wider social issues.  And as I
  say, we'll be thinking about these things in the months ahead.
Q.  You had mentioned yesterday that you were in a meeting in
    regards to the drug programs.  My question is, A, did the Vijay
    Singh issue come up?  Because obviously he's been claiming
    negligence by the Tour in their process.  And if so, is there a
    look at how the process should be done going forward?  Because
    even WADA admits it didn't go so well in regards to this
  particular product.
  PETER DAWSON:  That's very much an internal PGA Tour
  issue in the United States.  It would be wrong of me, while it's
  still under potential lawsuit, to comment.  I really can't go
  there.
Q.  You mentioned last year the possibility of looking at the
    infrastructure for Portrush, including it possibly on the Open
  rota.  I am wondering what the position on that is.
  PETER DAWSON:  We're cracking on with the work.  We've
  got another visit planned over there relatively soon.  You'll just
  have to be patient and wait to see what comes out of it, I'm
  afraid.
  MALCOLM BOOTH:  Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for
joining us this morning.








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT