U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 21, 1999
Sung Yoon Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SUNG YOON KIM:  I can't really feel anything right now.  I'm sort of on cloud 9. 
 

Q.  Are you aware you would be the youngest winner ever?
 
SUNG YOON KIM:  I am aware, yes. 
 
SUNG YOON KIM:  A little bit excited.  I know that my life is going to change a little bit.  Very excited, yeah. 
 

Q.  Hunter Haas said he expected you not to collapse, but feel the pressure; and obviously, you never did.  How do you --
 
FRANK BAIK:  He was mistaken. 
 
SUNG YOON KIM:  I didn't really mind losing, I didn't have any fear of losing.  I just wanted to do my best, give the best match possible.  Take one shot at a time.  That's the best I could do.  When I put that in my mind, I didn't really feel any pressure. 
 

Q.  You were 2-down after 8, and then just won the  whole series of holes.  What were you thinking when you were 2-down, and what happens as the momentum builds?
 
SUNG YOON KIM:  In the morning -- I didn't play well, my body -- I don't feel comfortable in the mornings when it's a little cold.  So my condition in the morning -- I didn't feel that comfortable with my swing.  I felt like if I could stay in the match, when I felt comfortable, like towards the back 9, I played a little better, and that's what happened. 
 

Q.  You said you're cold or not comfortable playing in the morning because you're cold?
 
SUNG YOON KIM:  Yes, I just don't adapt to the cold very well.  I don't like playing in the cold, in other words. 
 

Q.  Why not wear a sweater?
 
SUNG YOON KIM:  I did wear a sweater.  I just don't like the cold weather. 
 

Q.  Was it a grogginess, also, or not used to playing early in the morning?
 
SUNG YOON KIM:  It's pretty much that's my life, when I play golf.  It takes me a few extra holes to warm up properly in the mornings, when I have to play early morning.  I was talking about that last night about the early tee times.  I was a little bit worried about the early tee times.  
 

Q.  How do you think your life is going to change if you win tomorrow?
 
SUNG YOON KIM:  I don't know right now, but I'm sure when I go back to Korea, people will start recognizing me, and that will probably make me feel funny, more than anything. 
 

Q.  What about The Masters?
 
SUNG YOON KIM:  That's all I've been talking about. 
 

Q.  What does it mean to go there?  You've been talking about it; what have you been saying?
 
SUNG YOON KIM:  It's every golfer's dream is to play Augusta National, especially in The Masters. For me to get that kind of a chance, it's like a dream right now. 
 

Q.  Is it correct to assume tomorrow will be the biggest round of golf you've played, and what would have been the previous biggest round of golf you've played, and how did you do?
 
SUNG YOON KIM:  It will be the biggest tournament I've ever played.  And today is the best tournament I've played so far. 
 

Q.  You might be able to answer this, we were talking yesterday about Se Ri Pak.  Who's the best male golfer to come out of Korea, professional and amateur? 
 
FRANK BAIK:  There's a professional named Sang Ho Choi in Korea.  He's played a few tournaments overseas.  He's finished third in the Johnnie Walker Classic in Thailand.  He played with Fred Couples and Greg Norman in the final round and beat them both. Kyung Ju Choi, he played in the British Open and qualified.  He made the cut.  I think he finished 20-something, and he also finished in the top 20 of the Memorial. 
 

Q.  How do you spell the other?
 
FRANK BAIK:  Sang Ho Choi, S-a-n-g, H-o, C-h-o-i.  There has been one Korean who played in The Masters, back in the early 70's.  I think he won the Order of Merit on the Asian TOUR, and they invited him in The Masters.  When he does play, he'll be the second Korean. 
 

Q.  What was his name?
 
FRANK BAIK:  S-a-n-g J-a-n-g H-a-n. 
 

Q.  Do they show The Masters live on television? Have you watched it every year growing up?
 
SUNG YOON KIM:  They show it live, and I've never missed a day of the Masters. 
 

Q.  What time does it come on over there?
 
SUNG YOON KIM:  Like 3:00 in the morning. I've never missed a day of the Masters.  
 

Q.  Just don't like to play at 3:00 in the morning.  How do you say you, "The Man," in Korean? (Laughter.)
 
FRANK BAIK:  The only thing is, Korean, the language, "You" is not very proper.  You don't want to say "you," because it's improper to say "you" to somebody you don't know.  So I don't know how to go around that. 
 

Q.  Is there any nervousness in preparation for this match today or thinking about tomorrow?
 
FRANK BAIK:  Can I answer that?  I stayed with him last night.  He's not nervous.  He never gets nervous.  I had to wake him out of bed.  He was complaining he was sleepy.  He doesn't get nervous, I guess you can see it in his eyes.  Maybe it's because he's 17.  I really don't know.  I was talking to him outside, and he's calm, real calm. 
 

Q.  What do you attribute that to?
 
SUNG YOON KIM:  I enjoy it.  I enjoy the crowd, when they clap or whatever.  When I see cameras and the people, I enjoy them more than being nervous about them. 
 

Q.  Frank, you said earlier in the week the return ticket was for tomorrow.  What's going to happen? 
 
FRANK BAIK:  It's all changed. 
 

Q.  Did you have to pay a penalty?
 
FRANK BAIK:  It doesn't matter now, does it? 
 

Q.  What did you do last night in terms of occupying yourself until it was time to go to bed?
 
FRANK BAIK:  We had dinner at a Korean restaurant we've had dinner at every single night.  He saw himself on Sportscenter and The Golf Channel, and he went to bed. 
 

Q.  If you think Korean food is bad here, wait until you get to Augusta.
 
FRANK BAIK:  Actually, the restaurant we went to yesterday, Palmer eats there regularly every year, with Jack Lemmon. 
 
SUNG YOON KIM:  I feel it is a little strange, but I felt like I was real lucky this week. 
 

Q.  When are you going to turn pro?
 
FRANK BAIK:  I remember when Jack Nicklaus wanted to turn pro.  That's not it anymore; right? 
 

Q.  No.
 
FRANK BAIK:  He wants to go to college.  He  wants to go to a university here and play college at golf.  But obviously, it's going to be difficult.  He wants to turn pro, the sooner the better. 
 

Q.  What's the school situation back in Korea, does he have to go back to school this fall?
 
SUNG YOON KIM:  August 29th I have to go back to school. 
 
FRANK BAIK:  Actually, in Korea they start every February.  He's a junior until February, and then becomes a senior.  He doesn't graduate until 2001. 
 

Q.  Does he want to be a TOUR professional in Korea or the United States?
 
FRANK BAIK:  He has no aspirations to be a TOUR professional in Korea.  There's not enough tournaments over there, for one thing, and he wants to play the TOUR over here. 
 

Q.  What about the chance of playing with Couples at the Masters, maybe a practice round?
 
SUNG YOON KIM:  I probably couldn't play very well.  (Laughter.) 
 

Q.  That would make you nervous?
 
SUNG YOON KIM:  That would make me nervous, yeah.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT