BIG EAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 9, 2019
Tony Bozzella
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








St. John's - 76, Seton Hall - 51
TONY BOZZELLA: I'll make this quick.  Congratulations to St. John's.  They played very well today.  They got down and they fought back, and when we got back down, we struggled to score, and I thought they did a good job in their game planning, and we didn't have an answer for it, so I give them credit, and I'm sure if they play like this tomorrow, they'll have an excellent chance of being successful.
Q. Anything about your outgoing seniors that you'd like to say?
TONY BOZZELLA: Yeah, I think our outgoing seniors played hard all the time.  They were tremendous ambassadors for the program.  They were really great people.  I don't think -- you watch them play, you don't understand what special people they are, from Victoria to Cole and Inja, who came in this program and got us back to respectability, to obviously Kaity has been a tremendous, tremendous ambassador in everything.
I'm really proud of the kids.  This is obviously not the way we wanted to end our season, but someone has got to lose, and it wasn't because they didn't try.  We actually had our best two weeks of practice in months this week, so I just -- you know, I'm as surprised as anyone.  But I think we looked bad because St. John's played well.
Q. What can you say about Selena Philoxy's play today?
TONY BOZZELLA: She is.  She's been getting better all the time.  She plays with a lot of toughness, a lot of enthusiasm, a lot of confidence.  It bodes well for the future.  She's only a sophomore, and hopefully her and Shadeen and Des and some of our other forwards returning will be a formidable front line in the future.  But she can hold her head high for sure.
Q. (Inaudible.)  What do you hope to see her develop in the future?
TONY BOZZELLA: Well, I just want her to continue to get better.  She's a great kid.  She works extremely hard.  She was obviously very frustrated today.  I thought St. John's did a great job of crowding her and making it difficult for her to succeed, and I just think her timing was a little off.  She wasn't as crisp as she's been.  She still battled and did everything she could, it's just, you know, we could never open up the floor space for her.  They did a good job of making us take jump shots, and they did a real good job of it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT