U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2019
Jack Wall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So, Jack, after the first round of stroke play you seem to have found yourself on this course.  What's different for you?
JACK WALL: Started hitting fairways and greens.  That's what you got to do around here.  If you don't hit the ball well you can make big numbers.  That's the thing this week.  You got to hit the fairway, hit greens, and find a way not to make a big number out there.
Q. In today's match it was tight early and then you broke through and won three straight holes.  Tell me how you won 8, 9, and 10.
JACK WALL: Yeah, so I just hit a couple good shots that boosted me.  Lost 7, so hit a couple bad ones there, and got back on 8.  Didn't hit the fairway, but got it back in position and hit the green and solid two-putt.  He was kind of -- he got some bad -- in some bad spots, so I took advantage of that.
Then 9 rolled in a good putt and rolled in -- just made a solid par on 10.  So those three, I took advantage of what I needed to, but then giving it back was tough.
Q. How long was the putt on 9?
JACK WALL: It's probably 15, 18 feet straight up the hill.  He had a long putt for bogey, so I was just trying to lag it up there and move on to the next one.
Q. When he closed the gap what were you feeling?
JACK WALL: A little nerves for sure, but I knew that I was still up, and all I had to do was a couple of good swings and put the pressure back on him.
I was able to do that on 17, which was good.
Q. How did you calm yourself down mentally?
JACK WALL: Caddie was a big part of it.  J.D., he does a lot.  He knows what to say, when to say it.  Just said, One shot, one hole at a time.  Go back.  One good swing can change a lot.
Q. I know you been in this position before, but it's been a couple years since you played.
JACK WALL: Yeah.
Q. What's this like this time around?
JACK WALL: I mean, this is the first time making match play in the juniors so it's a bit different.  Made match play in the fourball so got a little taste of it there.  This is a little different.  More nerve wracking.  Just got to go out and hit fairways and greens out here.
Q. Did you gain any confidence from your performance at fourball for this one?
JACK WALL: A little bit, yeah.  Two opposite courses.  Can't get any -- no similarities between the two.  One you can just bomb driver everywhere, and this place you have to hit it straight.  That's the key.
Q. Anything in New Jersey compares to this course?
JACK WALL: A few.  There is definitely a couple.  I haven't played -- I mean, my course at home, Manasquan, can be like this.  We had U.S. Am qualifier there.  It was pretty tricky.  This is to a new level with the rough.
Such a limit on what you can hit out here, so...






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT