PLAYSTATION FIESTA BOWL: PENN STATE VS WASHINGTON
December 28, 2017
Ben Burr-Kirven
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BEN BURR-KIRVEN: Just when I got into college, I didn't know what I wanted to study.  I started out as a psych major, just because I wanted to do like, oh, something it's like a good major, quote/unquote.  And just one of those things I didn't really love that.   
I wasn't that interested in it.  And I talked to my parents.  One thing I've loved since I was little was film.  They were like honestly go study what you want to study, what you're interested in.  That's what I've been doing for the last two years and I've really enjoyed it.   
 Q.  You're not quite sure how you might apply that?  
BEN BURR-KIRVEN: I'm not exactly sure what I'm going to do.  I'm just focused on trying to play football at the next level.  That's one of the things I'll figure out, whether it's grad school or something like that but right now focused on football.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
BEN BURR-KIRVEN: It's awesome.  It's really interesting stuff.  My brother, he got into film when we were really little kids.  He was making little camcorders, that kind of stuff.  I was always interested in it.   
And once I got here, I started taking all sorts of different film classes, genre studies, and different things and I thought all really interesting and kind of interesting and you can learn.  I took a class this quarter that was really more of a sociology class with film aspects interesting the way it ties into so many different things when you look at it.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
BEN BURR-KIRVEN: If I let myself kind of get into that student brain, I can kind of get caught up looking at the technical aspects and that kind of stuff.  But I try to be able to go to movies and just enjoy the movies.  But it's definitely easy to get caught up and start analyzing things they could do this better or that better it's fun.   
 Q.  You went to see Last Jedi?  
BEN BURR-KIRVEN: Haven't seen it.  Don't spoil it.   
 Q.  I won't.  But sometimes thinking --  
BEN BURR-KIRVEN: It is easy sometimes you can get sucked out of the movie because you easily get caught up in that's continuity error and you're thinking about that.  It definitely does -- I do my best, from watching with my friends, never be the guy who starts talking, they're doing this wrong or that wrong.  I'd rather just enjoy the movie.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
BEN BURR-KIRVEN: Yeah, I heard that's great.  My parents told me to go see that.   
 Q.  Personally for me it's like (inaudible)?  
BEN BURR-KIRVEN: I'll definitely check it out.  It's on my list.  I've been hearing great things about it.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)  
BEN BURR-KIRVEN: He should go find some like amateur, like, long driving competitions because he can smoke the ball.  He was crushing them.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
BEN BURR-KIRVEN: Yeah.  It's fun.  If you like driving ranges, it's just a better version of that.  And play real golf.  It probably won't compare to that.  Probably get frustrated with the tees then.  It's got rubber things, they're super frustrating.  It's like a little rubber tube because they can't lose a bunch of tees.  You can't adjust the height or anything it's just low enough that it's not ideal.   
 Q.  They have clubs there?  
BEN BURR-KIRVEN: Yeah, they have a bunch of clubs.  I don't think they have a full set but you could make it work.  They've got wedges.  They've got most of the irons.  They've got like a 1-wood and 3-wood.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
BEN BURR-KIRVEN: Should be good.  We've got one more real practice and then just kind of our normal Friday pregame routine.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
BEN BURR-KIRVEN: I mean, yeah, you definitely can if you --   
 Q.  How do you (inaudible)?  
BEN BURR-KIRVEN: They do a pretty good job of cutting down practice.  We're not practicing as long as we would have, say, in September or anything like that.  But it's just kind of a mindset as long as you understand it you go out there and try to get better and it's pretty easy not to feel like you're getting overworked or anything like that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT