PLAYSTATION FIESTA BOWL: PENN STATE VS WASHINGTON
December 27, 2017
Ben Burr-Kirven
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BEN BURR-KIRVEN: Couple of days, all the hospitality has been amazing.  We had a really good practice yesterday.  So it's definitely just great to get down here, start playing football again.
Q. Recapping back when you guys were here playing Arizona (indiscernible), what's changed in the depth of your team and just your ability to grow?
BEN BURR-KIRVEN: Obviously that was a really tough game for us.  It's tough to lose a game anywhere, but I think for us that was kind of a learning moment for a lot of the young guys because it had been so, not coasting but felt like we can beat anyone and no matter what happens we're going to be fine.
So I think it kind of opened up a lot of guys' eyes -- this is a hard game we play, these things are going to happen.  I think for a lot of the young guys it was a time like we've got to step up and mature and what can we do to help this team.
Q. Would you say the Pac-12 is anybody's game on any given day?
BEN BURR-KIRVEN: Yes, that's something that Coach Pete says every day, any team can beat you any day.  I think it's the reality of playing Pac-12 football.  There's so many great athletes and coaches, and no matter what the records say there's always a chance that some team is going to come out there and play their game.
Q. Would you say the level of competitiveness at the Pac-12 level is where it should be?
BEN BURR-KIRVEN: I mean, I think so.  I think you want to be playing in a conference where all the teams can really go at each other.  It's not that fun if you know half the teams aren't that good.  I think that's the best thing about the Pac-12, like you said, any team can beat you.  And I think that kind of keeps you on your toes because there's no week where you're, like, oh, it's a pushover week.  You have to go out there every week and compete to the highest level.
Q. What is the biggest (indiscernible) Barkley?
BEN BURR-KIRVEN: I think just the different ways he can beat.  You watch film he's running through guys, past guys and juking guys and then he's split out at receiver, taking cornerbacks deep.  So he's definitely a pretty unique talent, nothing like we've seen.
I think it's going to be a matter of gang tackling, the whole team always running to the ball no matter where he gets it because he's a dynamic player.
Q. Looking at guys (indiscernible) have taken it to the next level, Budda Baker, how does that inspire you as a player?
BEN BURR-KIRVEN: It's always awesome to see those guys.  You spend so much time around them and in the workouts.  To see them go on, to see Budda doing so well in his first year, it's definitely exciting.  You want to keep pushing, you want a chance to do that some day.
Q. Are you at all surprised by what he's been able to do?
BEN BURR-KIRVEN: No, Budda he's one of the guys from the moment I met him, he's going to be doing this for a long time.  So I'm not surprised at all by Budda.
Q. Can you talk about Penn State tight end No. 88.  What have you seen on film from him and your overall impressions in general?
BEN BURR-KIRVEN: Just watching him on film, he's been one of the most polished route runners I think I've seen all year at receiver/tight end anywhere.
Just watching what he's doing, he's pretty dominating in the middle of the field, most of the games I've watched.  He's been a pretty massive part of their offense.  You don't see as much kind of that old school tight end inline running his routes.  I think it will definitely be a good challenge for us over the middle dealing with him, but he's definitely a really polished route runner.  I think that's what stands out the most.
Q. What's the most challenging about having a receiving corps that includes a tight end like Gesicki, a running back and the outside guys?
BEN BURR-KIRVEN: I think it definitely is a unique challenge.  When you look at the stats, when you see Barkley is right there with the receivers in terms of receptions.  I think it puts a little bit more onus on us at linebackers; you just can't be focused on filling holes, filling gaps.
We have to be ready to play in space and be ready to take those guys wherever they are.  I think it kind of shows a lot of what Penn State does.  They're very multiple on offense.  And I think it's kind of a representation of that when you see them getting the ball to so many guys in so many places.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT