MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 13, 2010
Joe Girardi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Joe, is there any particular reason Alex didn't get in the game?   
 JOE GIRARDI: No. We were talking about pinch-running him in a situation. We also had a little issue with Beltre and we were concerned about his hamstring, so if we get the tieing run on, Al was going to pitch run and then go in.   
  
  Q. What did you think of the first four innings, no runs, the pitching; how would you elaborate on those guys today?   
 JOE GIRARDI: I think the pitching by both sides was excellent. It came down to one pitch in the game. Their guys threw a little bit better than our guys. They threw extremely well. And I thought our guys threw the ball extremely well, too. There weren't a lot of hits tonight, just a lot of good stuff.  
  
  Q. Your thoughts on Hughes, please.   
 JOE GIRARDI: He gave up two singles and it ended up being the difference in the game, basically. Matt Thornton gets a big out, Chris Young popping it up and battles one and bird and ends up did getting a walk and we battled the lefties and got a base hit. Good baserunning by Scott Rolen really set that inning up.  
  
  Q. You talked about the importance of home-field advantage in the World Series, how much disappointment is there losing the streak and the fact that AL doesn't have that?   
 JOE GIRARDI: It's extremely important and whoever is in the World Series is going to have to work hard and ending the streak is disappointing, as well, but we have an opportunity to start a new one next year.   
  
  Q. Was Wigginton ineligible; did you consider that for Ortiz?   
 JOE GIRARDI: He could come back in for Beltre. If the tying run got -- if Ortiz and Beltre got on, Al was going to pinch-run for Ortiz and Wigginton was going to pinch-run for Beltre because his hamstring is bothered.  
  
  Q. Were you thinking about pinch-hitting him?   
 JOE GIRARDI: I could have, in a situation, but you know, I was going to give Beltre his at-bat. You can't really pinch-hit for John Buck and I don't have any outfielders left. So if the situation arose, you get extra innings, he would probably be my DH.  
  
  Q. But Alex is healthy?   
 JOE GIRARDI: Oh, yeah, he's fine.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT