MLB WORLD SERIES: PHILLIES v YANKEES
November 2, 2009
Joe Girardi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 New York Yankees 6
  Philadelphia Phillies 8 
   
  Q. What was your assessment of Burnett? And did you think there was any correlation with the one day fewer rest?  
 JOE GIRARDI: No, I don't think there was any correlation. He just lacked command to night similar to what he did in Anaheim. But he was able to recover better there. Tonight he just wasn't able to get it going.   
  
  Q. What are your plans for a Game 6 starter and why?  
 JOE GIRARDI: Well, we're going to check with Andy tomorrow when we work out at 4:00 o'clock, and then I'll announce it then. Physically I've got to see how he is. He threw a side today and felt good. But I'll check with him tomorrow.   
  
  Q. What was your assessment of Lee today? Obviously he was not near as sharp as what he was in Game 1.   
 JOE GIRARDI: Well, I felt we put some better at-bats on him tonight. We hit some balls hard and we got something going and got a run in the first, and then he got a pretty big lead and we were able to get back into the game. But I thought our guys had better at-bats tonight. And I didn't think he was as sharp as he didn't throw as many strikes tonight. He wasn't ahead in the count as much as he was at our place.  
  
  Q. You don't play against Utley all the time, but from what you've seen what makes him so difficult to pitch to?  
 JOE GIRARDI: He's got such a short swing. He's so short to the ball. I saw him plenty enough in 2006 and know that he's a very dangerous hitter, and he puts up great numbers every year. But he's very short to the ball, and you don't see him chasing a lot of bad pitches, either.   
  
  Q. You mentioned that the guys had very good at-bats today. Do you think that if A.J. had had his rest, if he was well rested and the pitching came through good, do you think the Yankees would have been in a better place today than what the outcome was today?  
 JOE GIRARDI: Well, if we would have pitched today, we probably would have won. That's the bottom line. A.J. struggled today. He felt good, he just struggled today. That's something that happens in the game of baseball.   
  
  Q. How big were Coke's runs there?  
 JOE GIRARDI: Yeah, I mean, those were tack-on runs that hurt us, obviously. We ended up with six runs tonight. We still had a chance in the ninth inning to possibly come back and tie it up or take the lead, but when you look back at it, those runs hurt us.   
  
  Q. The game over now, what are your thoughts about using Pettitte for Game 6?  
 JOE GIRARDI: I just said I'll check with him tomorrow at our workout and see how he feels. We would have to talk about it internally.   
  
  Q. I know you said that A.J.'s problems weren't related to rest, but does seeing what happened tonight affect your decision-making with Andy at all?  
 JOE GIRARDI: No, it doesn't. You know, if Andy physically feels good, he's going to go on Wednesday. This is something that we talked about all throughout. We check with our guys.   
 If he feels good, he's going.   
  
  Q. How would you assess how Mark Teixeira has hit in the post-season?  
 JOE GIRARDI: He's had some struggles. He's hit some hits, too, some hits that have helped us. He won a game with a home run. He's struggled a little bit, but he hit a home run off of Pedro to get us going, and I'll take my chances with him every day in the lineup.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT