AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ANGELS v YANKEES
October 25, 2009
Joe Girardi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







ANGELS  – 2
  YANKEES  – 5

 JOE GIRARDI: This was an extremely tough series on us. Mike Scioscia is a manager that I've always looked up to and had a chance to play against him when I was younger. But the job that he does with this team, the Angels, makes it extremely tough on you every day. And we feel fortunate we got a chance to go to the World Series. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Joe. 

 Q. Joe, how does going to the World Series as a manager compare with going as player? 
 JOE GIRARDI: Well, we're not quite there yet, even though we are. 
 You know, I have that same feeling of excitement. 1996 was the first time for me. You think about all the work that all the people put in to have this opportunity, as a player all the work you put in in the off-season to get an opportunity. It's much the same feeling. 

 Q. Congratulations, Joe. 
 JOE GIRARDI: Thank you. 

 Q. You say you admire Mr. Scioscia some of the things he did and stuff. What did you think that you did differently with this Yankees team getting to the postseason? I mean, it's like a turn-around the way Alex is hitting, CC. Describe that a little bit to us. 
 JOE GIRARDI: I think the biggest difference is we had players play big in the series. CC was huge for us. Alex was huge for us. Mariano Rivera was huge for us. Our starting pitching has been outstanding throughout. Our bullpen has been pretty good throughout. Guys have gotten big hits. It all started with Alex with the home runs, the game-tying home runs. The home runs that he hit in the seventh, the ninth or the 11th. We've had big players do big things. And that's why we got a chance to go to the World Series. 

 Q. Of all the things that on the list that won for you, how big was keeping Figgins off base? 
 JOE GIRARDI: Huge. He's a pest. And we know the problems that he can cause. That is a big part of the Angels' offense. And I thought our pitchers did a great job against him. He had a wonderful year this year. When he was on base in games that we played against them, he created a lot of issues. And keeping him off base was a big part of our success. 

 Q. Joe, as a player you've been to the World Series many times, but as a manager, how satisfying, how special is this moment for you? 
 JOE GIRARDI: It's very special. You know, I've said, I'm extremely blessed to have this opportunity. I feel my life has been one big blessing. The things that I've gotten to do, God has really blessed me. But being here as a player and going through that and the excitement and the anticipation and then getting a chance to do it as a manager, I'm extremely happy for the guys in that room, for the Boss, his children, all the people that put all this hard work in to put this team together. Brian Cashman has done a great job. Our developmental people have done a great job. You think about all the people that have come up and played and had an impact on our season so far. All the young kids. It's just been a real team effort. 

 Q. I know you think about the Phillies, but what kind of opponent do you think they're going to be? You played them during the regular season. Does that make it better for you? 
 JOE GIRARDI: I don't know. They're really tough. They're the defending champs. They've been playing extremely well. Their offense is very strong. Their pitching has been very strong in the playoffs. We know they're an extremely tough opponent. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT