AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ANGELS v YANKEES
October 24, 2009
Joe Girardi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Take the first question for Joe. 

 Q. Are you optimistic and are the players antsy with the weather, not knowing exactly what's going on?
 JOE GIRARDI: We believe there's a chance we're going to play tonight. I guess we probably all would have left by now. I think there's a chance it's going to push through, and we'll see what happens. 

 Q. Joe, I'm sure you have the most updated information. What are they telling you? 
 JOE GIRARDI: Just what I told you, there's a chance it's going to push through. Now, as we all know, weather can change very quickly around here. A week ago we didn't think we were going to play a couple of games and the weather stayed away completely. 
 From what I understand there's a chance it could push through and we're going to play. 

 Q. Joe, does a rainout benefit you or the Angels more, do you think? 
 JOE GIRARDI: You know, I really haven't put much thought into that. Obviously we have Andy going tonight. You know, that's what my thought process is. And what we're going to try to do. Physically it allows people to get some more rest, and I don't know if that's always a good thing or a bad thing. 

 Q. Joe, this is the 40th anniversary of the LCS, and with the extra layer of the Division Series, do you think that the LCS has kind of outstripped the World Series in terms of dramatic games? 
 JOE GIRARDI: I don't know. You know, I don't sit down and watch every LCS game or every World Series. I think the most drama and the most meaningful games I would have to say are in the World Series because there's only two teams left. 
 I don't necessarily think so. I think what you have is you have a lot of evenly matched teams in baseball right now that play a lot of great games. But I don't think it strips the World Series of its luster. 

 Q. Do you have a lineup? 
 JOE GIRARDI: Jeet, Johnny, Tex, Alex, Posada, Matsui, Cano, Swisher, Cabrera. 

 Q. Just with Swisher struggling, any consideration to starting someone else? 
 JOE GIRARDI: The interesting thing about that, he has pretty decent numbers off of Saunders tonight. He was 1 for 2 with a walk in the first game. People were asking me if I was going to give up on Johnny Damon; Johnny Damon has turned it around. And Tex had a big hit for us. 
 You know, the one thing, Swisher is not a platoon player. Swisher has been an everyday right-fielder that has put up good numbers for us. Yeah, he's struggled, but he's had some good at-bats. He had some good at-bats off of Saunders and we're sticking with him. 

 Q. As you well know, Joe Torre's success here included four World Series and six American League pennants. To be where you are right now, one win away from this spot, I realize you don't want to talk about not getting there. Where you are now, how does it feel to be where you are right now? 
 JOE GIRARDI: Well, I think you feel a little bit better than if it was 3-2 the Angels. But you still know you've lot of work to do, and you have to win a game. We're playing a very tough opponent. But I think guys are thinking about -- I think guys are anxious to get this on the way. The days off kind of prolong it. And you have time to think about things more. But we're excited. I personally am excited, yeah. 

 Q. Joe, obviously they're pitching very carefully to Alex even to the point of walking him the other day. Are you hoping Posada moving up a little bit might combat that to some degree? 
 JOE GIRARDI: You hope so. Jorge has had good at-bats against Saunders as well. And there are a lot of other guys in our lineups capable of winning games for us, and that's what we like about our lineup. Guys have had success. So, you know, if they're going to pitch around Alex, guys behind him have to do the job. 

 Q. Joe, later in the game, later innings are you inclined to stay the course with Joba and Hughes? Or could we see Dave Robertson? 
 JOE GIRARDI: You know, Joba has probably the most experience down there. Hughesy has a lot of experience. We have matchups that we like that we favor, and that's what we'll go to. You can see David possibly, depending on how the game goes. But I can't tell you I would use one guy over the other. The situation dictates a lot of what you're going to do. 

 Q. Joe, it's hypothetical but I would like you to take a crack at it anyway: If this thing starts and then they suspend it after like three innings, what do you do tomorrow? Who starts? Do you go to Sabathia or save him for a possible Game 7? 
 JOE GIRARDI: No, you wouldn't start -- I can't tell you exactly. Right now my initial thought is no, you wouldn't pitch CC. You would use your bullpen for six innings. There's plenty of innings down there. And that's what we would do. 

 Q. Obviously managing in New York you're always under a microscope. How have you found this year postseason managing the Yankees? How have you found it with every single move magnified? Some of them work, some of them don't. 
 JOE GIRARDI: That you're under a microscope. And you understand that being here. You understand it to a certain degree as a player. You understand it to a certain degree when you watch as a coach as you are working under Joe Torre. And you understand a lot better when you're actually sitting in that chair. And as I've said all along, every move is not going to work out. That's the bottom line. That's the human element of it. You prepare yourself for moves to work out. 
 We had a lot of moves work out this year but we've had moves that haven't worked out. And that's why we haven't won every game. 

 Q. Forgetting the results of Phil Hughes and Joba, how have you thought they've pitched so far here in the playoffs? 
 JOE GIRARDI: They've given up some runs. They're not immune to giving up runs in the playoffs. As I've said, I've actually seen Mariano Rivera give up a run in the playoffs. It happens. It's tough baseball this time of year. Every pitch has lot of meaning. They're young guys, but I think they're holding their heads up high. I think they're holding their chest up high, and I expect good things out of them. And they do, too. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT