AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ANGELS v YANKEES
October 19, 2009
Joe Girardi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Joe Girardi.

 Q. Do you have the lineup, Joe? 
 JOE GIRARDI: Yes. Jeet, Damon, Tex, A-Rod, Matsui, Posada, Cano, Swisher, Cabrera.

 Q. Did you think of holding off naming Sabathia, Game 4 starter, depending on the start today? What made you make the decision before? 
 JOE GIRARDI: He came out yesterday and did a little bit of work, and I wanted to make sure he felt all right. It had nothing to do with results. It was basically on how he felt. And he felt good. And as soon as he went through his workout, we named him the Game 4 starter.

 Q. When a guy starts on three-days rest, do you look at him differently? Evaluate him differently pitch to pitch during a game, and what are the factors that go into that? 
 JOE GIRARDI: We'll just watch carefully like we would any other start, and make sure that location is there and physically he feels fine and doesn't have any real long innings. As far as the pitch count, I would have no problem letting him go 110, 115 if that's what it took. 
 But more, you look at the results and how he's throwing than anything else.

 Q. After the Division Series that Phil Hughes had, how happy were you to see him come back in that last game and have a good game? 
 JOE GIRARDI: Very encouraged. I talked about that we don't expect any of our pitchers to be perfect, and Hughes has thrown the ball so well for us this year. The one thing I was happy about with Minnesota is he didn't let any inning get away from him. I think that's real important. 
 His first real test in that first series is an 8th inning guy. So I was very encouraged with what I saw. I guess it was Saturday, and, you know, I look forward to seeing him out there again.

 Q. Against Jered Weaver, what kind of approaches do you think you guys need to take? 
 JOE GIRARDI: We've seen him a couple times this year. He's got a fastball with late life. He's got that late cut, and he seems to hide it pretty well. He's got a very good changeup, and he's going to nix in his curveball and his slider. 
 But our approach doesn't change a whole lot from game to game. Be patient, look for your pitch, and put a good swing on it. He's had an outstanding year. We know he's a very, very good pitcher, and you have to make sure you get a good pitch to hit. Not too anxious.

 Q. What are your thoughts on expanding instant replay, and also on the assigning of umpires for the procedures for the postseason?
 JOE GIRARDI: I'm not sure what you mean by the assigning of umpires? 

 Q. The system. 
 JOE GIRARDI: The six-man system? 

 Q. Not the system. 
 THE MODERATOR: How they're chosen.
 JOE GIRARDI: Oh, I don't really get caught up with who is chosen and how they're chosen. That's not a huge concern of ours when you talk about all the other decisions that we have to make for the playoff series, the rosters, the moves, and who you're starting. 
 But as far as instant replay, it was brought up in the Minnesota series against us about having a flag in your pocket. And I talked about I think the rhythm of the game is really important, especially from the pitcher. If it took a couple minutes every time you threw the flag that would be a concern to me. 
 Someone brought up a point that you could just push the button and there would be an empire upstairs. In most plays I think you could replay and evaluate probably in 30 seconds. And if they could do that, if they wanted to initiate more, I don't think I would have a problem with it. 
 My only concern about doing it too much is keeping your pitcher in a rhythm.

 Q. Back on CC again, historically over the last 12, 13, 14 years pitchers in the playoffs on three-days rest have not done very well. Even last year when CC went on three days rest a couple of times with the Brewers, and in the regular season they didn't do very well after that. Do either of those things mean anything to you? 
 JOE GIRARDI: Yeah, you look at everything. Last year he was 2-1 with a low ERA on three-days rest. And the thing about CC is he didn't have the amount of innings that he had the last two years in the regular season. We slowed him down. He's been able to have extra rest, and that's why we feel good about it. We wouldn't ask him to do something that we didn't think he was capable of or that he had a chance to be successful at. 
 It was very important for us to try to slow him down in the month of September because we knew that his workload could be heavy in October and November. He had a long rest in between his Game 1 against Minnesota, and Game 1 against the Angels. So we feel he's rested and more than capable of doing this.

 Q. Now that you guys are the season three starters, what's Gaudin's roll going forward? Is he someone you're going to see early in ballgames or a long guy? 
 JOE GIRARDI: He's more of a long guy for us. We had him up to come in Saturday's game. Robertson was done, and Gaudin was warmed up. So by having Chad down there it allows us to mix and match more in our bullpen, being able to use maybe a couple guys in an inning and not worry if you go extra innings or a long game.

 Q. Your team recently has drawn some comparison to the '98 team. Since you played on that team, are you comfortable with those comparisons, and if so, what specifically do you see are the similarities between the two? 
 JOE GIRARDI: I don't know if I would say I'm comfortable with the comparisons. I don't know if that would be the word that I would use. But I think you have to win a World Series before you can compare the two teams. 
 Because on the '98 team had an exceptional regular season and an exceptional playoff where we won the World Series. As far as some of the similarities between the teams, I think there was a resiliency on that team, and I think this club has it as well. 
 The bullpen on that team was very good, and I think the bullpen on this team is very good. But I think it's unfair to compare until the playoffs are done, and you see where you end up. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. 
 JOE GIRARDI: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT