AL DIVISION SERIES: YANKEES VS INDIANS
October 8, 2017
Joe Girardi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I haven't seen your lineup.  Who's your DH?
JOE GIRARDI: Ellsbury.  Ellsbury has had a lot of success off Carrasco.  We put Frazier 7, but he's also had a lot of success, and Hicks is 9.
Q. Joe, do you foresee a situation where you'd use Severino out of the bullpen tonight?
JOE GIRARDI: Yes, he will be in the bullpen tonight if we need him.  We will use him.  Hopefully we get distance out of Tanaka and we don't have to, but we'll see what happens.
Q. Following up on that, Joe, is Gray preparing to start tomorrow, if necessary?
JOE GIRARDI: I'm not sure what we would do tomorrow.  Really, today it's kind of all hands on deck and whatever happens, then we'll make a decision.
Q. The team plays some of their best ball at home.  Last time you were here, it was a must-win game and you mentioned how it felt like a football stadium.  Are you expecting a similar atmosphere this evening?
JOE GIRARDI: I am.  I think it will be a great atmosphere.  I'm looking forward to it.  Obviously I'm looking forward to the game tonight.  We were in that we-had-to-win game and our guys came out and played extremely well.  It's what I expect tonight.
Q. Joe, even though you've had the day off, are there guys in the bullpen who you would use but maybe not for as many outs as typically?
JOE GIRARDI: Yeah.  I think you'd have to say that about Green and Robertson, probably both of them.  The one guy you probably got to check on more than anybody is Dellin.  It's not so much the pitches, it's the up and down.  Two different innings.  He threw the day before.  So I have to see where he's at physically.
Q. Joe, I think Tanaka won bullpen two days ago with Romine.  Was there any point you were going to use Romine?
JOE GIRARDI: No.  I think it's Ro just trying to stay sharp.  That you're prepared as a catcher, that sort of thing.
Q. Joe, can you just talk about the situation overall, you're down 0-2 against a team that has been on a long, long winning streak.  The challenges ahead.
JOE GIRARDI: Well, the challenge is to win one game.  Win one game tonight.  That's the challenge that you express to your club, that you can't look too far ahead, what we have to do.  You have to look at we need to win a game tonight.  And then you go from there and you see where you're at.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT