AL DIVISION SERIES: TIGERS v YANKEES
October 2, 2011
Joe Girardi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Joe, when you named Freddy your Game 3 starter, you talked about liking to see different looks from your starters. Could you elaborate on that? And also, does today setup as you would have wanted in terms of your bullpen being available, and that way when Freddy keeps you in the game like he sometimes does, you would have options? 
 JOE GIRARDI: Right. Our bullpen is in very good shape. So that sets up really well. Freddy is a completely different look than all of our other pitchers. You can look at all of our other pitchers and say they're somewhat power guys. Freddy is the one finesse guy we've got, that's going to use a lot of off-speed. See some slow breaking balls. It's a totally different look. 

 Q. Joe, with only having used Ayala and Mo last night, you expressed a little concern over the four days in a row and what that would mean for your bullpen. Does that take some of the stress off you in terms of knowing for the first of those four games that helps out? 
 JOE GIRARDI: Yes, it definitely helps out. We didn't have to use a lot of our bullpen yesterday. We all know we have four days in a row. That's very helpful for us. 

 Q. Joe, I don't think during the season you ever used Mo three straight days. Does that change in the playoffs because its the postseason? Or if he pitches two in a row, is he automatically out? 
 JOE GIRARDI: I'm not sure I didn't use him three straight days. I would have to check. I'll check with him. I'm not afraid to use him three straight days now. I will check with Mo, obviously, every day to see how he feels. It's a little bit different now. 

 Q. Are you totally settled on who is going to pitch tomorrow? 
 JOE GIRARDI: Yeah, our plans are CC tomorrow. 

 Q. Do you know Game 4 yet? 
 JOE GIRARDI: It would be A.J. 

 Q. Was there any reticence about using Mo for that one batter last night? 
 JOE GIRARDI: No. If a guy hits a grand slam, now you're looking at 9-7. You don't want to get to that point. 

 Q. I think you had mentioned Hughes as a possibility for Game 4 as well. What led to the decision ultimately of A.J. over Hughes? 
 JOE GIRARDI: The only way I probably would have used Hughes in Game 4 is if we had to use A.J. last night. Phil hasn't been stretched out lately. A.J., his month of September was not bad. You look at the strikeouts per innings, it was a complete turnaround from August. It was just if we had to use A.J. yesterday, I might have had to start Hughesie. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT