AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: YANKEES v RANGERS
October 22, 2010
Joe Girardi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







YANKEES  – 1
  RANGERS  – 6

 Q. Can you just start, first of all, by expressing your feelings about the game, and your season? 
 JOE GIRARDI: Yeah, we didn't accomplish what we set out to. And as I told my guys, this hurts. I've been through it as a player. I've been through it as a coach and now I've been through it as a manager. It's not a lot of fun watching other teams celebrate. They beat us. They out-hit us, they out-pitched us, out-played us and they beat us.

 Q. The availability of CC Sabathia -- an inning, later in the game, more than one inning. Why did you not go to him in the fifth inning? 
 JOE GIRARDI: I mean, I went to a right-handed reliever and we were facing right-handers and that's where I decided to go. I went to David Robertson. You have to remember, CC was coming off a 112-pitch (game), if there was a situation where we would use him against a left-hander, we were going to try to use him in a situation against the left-handers in the bottom of the order if that came up. The fifth, we didn't get out of --

 Q. Do you second-guess yourself? 
 JOE GIRARDI: No, not at all. 

 Q. Did Robertson's struggles make you think about Wood? 
 JOE GIRARDI: We were thinking about doing that. We were trying to get Woody the 6th and 7th and Mo the 8th and 9th and if we needed CC at some point we were going to do that, and we ended up getting him up anyway. 

 Q. On two different occasions in the series, the intentional walks seemed to backfire. Can you talk about that, and how it came to transpire?
 JOE GIRARDI: Well, we talked about how good their lineup is. It worked a couple of times, and then it didn't work after that. I mean, Vlad Guerrero is no walk in the park, that's for sure. And we know how good of a hitter he is, and that's why you talk about, well, why don't you just walk this guy; well, their lineup is complete, and that's what makes it so hard. 

 Q. For the guys in the bottom of the order, was he an option to pitch to Hamilton rather than walk him?
 JOE GIRARDI: Hughesy has had success off Vlad Guerrero and got him out twice and that's why he stayed there.

 Q. Your bullpen was a strength the last couple of months; how disappointing was this stretch where you didn't have the ability to go to anybody successfully?
 JOE GIRARDI: We struggled in this series, we did. We were very good in the first series and we struggled in this series. As we said, they have a lot of good hitters and as we said, if you make mistakes, they are usually crooked numbers on the board and that's what happened tonight.

 Q. What's more disappointing, Phil's performance or the lack of hitting? 
 JOE GIRARDI: I don't know how you measure, quantitate any of it. It all stinks. It's no fun to be in this situation. It's no fun to be sitting here after the loss. We take this extremely serious. It stinks.

 Q. Did you think Phil was done or just do something to try to stop the bleeding? 
 JOE GIRARDI: I just felt we had to make a change. Robby has done a good job with Nelson Cruz and I just felt it was time to make a change.

 Q. I guess how surprised were you about the sort of overall performance from the hitters during the series?
 JOE GIRARDI: I mean, you have to give some credit to their pitchers. They obviously made some good pitches when they had to. We had some opportunities in the series. We didn't hit with runners on. And you never know exactly how much you give credit to the pitchers and how much it's your hitting.
 But we never seemed to get on track offensively in this series.

 Q. Are you surprised, or how surprised are you at the one-sidedness of this thing?
 JOE GIRARDI: You take away one inning and one game, and it was very one-sided. We just didn't get it done. 

 Q. Talk about the performance by Colby Lewis tonight and how tough he was. 
 JOE GIRARDI: He was great. We had three hits, in, what, eighth innings? He was outstanding. Maybe walked one hitter. He commanded the strike zone. He threw offspeed when he had to, behind the count when he had to to put hitters away; he expanded. He did everything that's necessary to win the ballgame.

 Q. Any timeline for how soon you want to resolve your personal situation?
 JOE GIRARDI: No, that's not a concern of mine right now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT