AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: YANKEES v RANGERS
October 21, 2010
Joe Girardi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. When a guy like Josh Hamilton is so locked in, how difficult does that make it?   
 JOE GIRARDI: He's a great hitter, and the thing is, the guys behind him have been swinging the bats, too. So their lineup is very deep.   
 You look at yesterday's ballgame, they had 11 hits off of CC in six innings, but CC did a good job of getting a double play when he had to and making his pitches when he had to.  
 But Josh Hamilton is pretty locked in right now.   
  
  Q. I know you don't want to make excuses for Phil, but how much do you attribute his Game 2 start to the extra rest and looking forward to tomorrow, what do you expect on the more normal rest?  
 JOE GIRARDI: It's hard to say whenever you look at extra rest and how it affects a player. But some guys are really routine-oriented, and I expect him to have much better command of all of his stuff tomorrow, because it is his -- basically, his fifth day; where I think it was his seventh day before.   
 The last time he had extra rest, we were able to throw him an inning of relief, but we weren't able to do that. So I'm looking forward to his start tomorrow and better command.   
  
  Q. We have asked you a bunch about Mo and how many outs he can get, but you guys potentially have a situation where you're going to need him for more than an inning in back-to-back games; how do you manage Game 6 like there's no tomorrow but with the possibility there is a tomorrow?  
 JOE GIRARDI: Well, I think that you have to manage it like there's no tomorrow. Game 6, if we need him six outs, we need him six outs. I think that's what you have to do. If you need Woody six outs, you need Woody six outs. You worry about the next day the next day.  
 For me, they are available as much as we need them.   
  
  Q. If he were to go for those six outs, the next day --  
 JOE GIRARDI: I doubt it. I doubt it.   
  
  Q. Would you have him the next day for more than one inning?   
 JOE GIRARDI: We would have to see how he felt and how he's throwing the baseball.  
  
  Q. Alex's numbers have not been great in this series, but what have you seen so far from him at the plate? What do you think of his at-bats?   
 JOE GIRARDI: Well, he's taking his walks when they are giving them to him. I would not say that he had much to hit yesterday. It could be that way tomorrow. I'm not sure how they will approach Alex.  
 But as far as his at-bats, I think his at-bats are good, but they have not given him a whole lot to hit.  
  
  Q. If this was a year ago, a lot of people are pointing the finger at Alex and saying, here we go again; how much do you think it's helped that he has gotten over that hump and perform well and was part of a World Championship?   
 JOE GIRARDI: Well I've talked to him a number of times that he has not had to answer those questions this year, and that makes it easier. We all know how explosive Alex can be. Tomorrow would be a great day to have four or five hits, maybe some long balls.   
 Alex is a big part of our lineup, and the good thing about our lineup is we don't have to rely on one guy. If they are not going to pitch to him, the guys behind have to make you pay.  
  
  Q. Quite a few players talked about the talk with the team -- is that something you always do or is that a motivational speech, and is this the time of year where you have to do it again tomorrow?  
 JOE GIRARDI: I don't necessarily -- when I think I need to talk to the club, it's based on what I feel we are going through. Is it something I need to do tomorrow? I don't think so. I think our guys understand what's at hand.   
 You know, sometimes you can go through some tough streaks where guys maybe need a little pick up and remind them how good they are. Sometimes when you're struggling as a player, you can forget how good you really are, and there's so much talent in the room, and I just felt that we needed to do it and keep our focus just on one game. And that's what we'll do tomorrow. We'll focus on one game and let's see where we are at tomorrow.  
  
  Q. A lot of your hitters have not seen that much of Colby Lewis. How much can a second look help them?   
 JOE GIRARDI: Sweeny, I hope a lot. Before we saw him here, I believe it was on Saturday -- yeah, Saturday, we had two guys that had faced him, and it was years ago. So our guys have a better idea what he's going to try to do to them, and that can always be helpful.  
  
  Q. How is Lance today physically, and do you anticipate him being limited at all tomorrow?   
 JOE GIRARDI: The fact that he took BP today and was out there made me feel pretty good. And I don't think he'll be limited tomorrow. I'm sure he's sore. You don't fall that hard and not be sore.   
 But I don't expect it to affect his play tomorrow. He'll be in there. Unless something happens overnight that I'm not -- you know.   
  
  Q. And speaking of Lance, he took a pretty hard fall on that warning track, and Mark Teixeira was in there voicing some concern about the way that surface is; have you heard those concerns from players, and what do you think about that warning track at the stadium?  
 JOE GIRARDI: That's something we'll discuss if we think it's necessary to discuss.  
 Lance had plastic spikes on and a lot of times plastic spikes don't give you the same grab in other places as it necessarily does on the infield. And he switched after that and I think he ran over there once more and didn't fall down. That's encouraging.  
 But if we feel it's something we need to address, we'll address it.   
  
  Q. Just to clarify, what's the -- why would you have plastic spikes on versus the metal ones?   
 JOE GIRARDI: Some guys are just more comfortable. It's easier on their feet. They feel it's easier on their legs. I've seen a number of guys wear plastic spikes. Very seldom we see an outfielder wear them but infielders, it's easier on their feet and their legs respond better to it.  
  
  Q. CC I guess didn't throw; is he available in the bullpen for you here? At least he's been telling people --  
 JOE GIRARDI: Our plan is he's available tomorrow. Let's see how he feels tomorrow but our plan is that he will be available for us.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT