NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: AVALANCHE v RED WINGS
May 31, 2002
Luc Robitaille
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Luc, did you feel after your goal that made it 3-0, could you see the life going out of the Avalanche at that point?

LUC ROBITAILLE: You never know with that type of team because they have so many guys that can score goals.  When you get a 3-0 lead with Dom in the net, we had them where we wanted them to be.  It's a big lead when we have defensemen and a goalie like we have.

Q.  Luc, a couple comments on if it's easier playing in front of a  -- with a goalie like Dominik Hasek, and does it free you up to maybe, you know, open up the scoring a little more knowing he's going to be on the other end shutting down the goals?

LUC ROBITAILLE: Well, you don't want never to open up.  It's the same thing for Colorado.  They have a guy like Patrick.  We have a guy like Dom.  If you get a lead, you've got real good odds you're going to shut down the team if you play real well.  These are the best two goalies in the world.  Any time you get a lead with these guys, they thrive on that.

Q.  Luc, looking back when you signed here as a free agent, is this the moment you were kind of looking forward to being a big time player in the 7th decisive game?

LUC ROBITAILLE: I'm looking to win the Cup.  That's what I came here for.  This team, we play as a team.  I'm learning more and more from a guy like Stevie Yzerman.  It doesn't matter who scores or who does what, it's all about winning.  It's about playing as a team and that's the reason things are working the way they are.  

Q.  I know you just won the series, but have you thought any about Carolina?  What are your thoughts about playing a team like that?

LUC ROBITAILLE: Well, we watched some games, you know, in the last couple of weeks.  I mean, they certainly had a great series against Toronto.  They've got all their forwards four checking real well, and, you know, we know we're going to have to play our best game against them.  They've got four lines going.  Any time you have a team like that, they're always very dangerous.

Q.  Luc, the Avalanche have played a lot of games.  When you're out on the ice in a game like this, can you tell maybe their tank is dry?

LUC ROBITAILLE: I wouldn't say their tank was dry, but we know they had played a lot of games and some nights they were forced to play with a short bench.  For us, we know to keep the puck down low and try to force them as much as possible.  It didn't pay off the first two or three games.  I think as the series went along it paid off.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT