ROGERS CUP
July 26, 2016
Yen-Hsun Lu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Y. LU/A. Zverev   
7-5, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Today's match might be viewed as an upset by some of us.  Do you feel like it was an upset, or did you know that you had it in you all along?  
YEN-HSUN LU: I mean, he's always a match you never know.  But, I mean, for sure, how he plays the past, more so people they think he has better chance and when he was doing well last week in semifinal in Washington.   
But, I mean, this is a different new conditions, new tournament this week.  I mean, I know he's a good player.  He's a newcomer and a very tough competitor.  I just trying, you know, to be focus on and to play my tennis.   
You know, after I see one, two games, he's not making the good first serve in, and I know today I have my chance.  So then, you know, I waiting, I waiting, I waiting.  Even he was break me first, but I know today I have a better chance than him because he doesn't make a lot of good serve today.   
 Q.  Just in terms of your next opponent, Milos Raonic, you're no stranger to playing Canadians at this tournament.  I think you have played maybe five total.  
YEN-HSUN LU: I didn't count.  Sorry.   
 Q.  Just trying to get a feel for what it will be like for you going in to, you know, face the sort of tournament fan favorite, that sort of thing.  You have played him twice before.  What do you need to prepare for?  
YEN-HSUN LU: Well, I mean, I cannot say I prepare.  I mean, for sure when you go in on court, I don't know how many people you can see up there, maybe 10,000, more, I don't know, but if 10,000 crowd is against you, even you say you prepare, it is kind of a shock.   
Same like NBA, you go to the home team court, and all the spectators against you is very tough.  But, I mean, this is what he should get because he come from the country and he's one of the best players right now.   
So, I mean, I'm happy for him.  I know I hope tonight before sleep I try to think about tomorrow how I feel get in the court.  But again, I will be a little bit nervous, for sure, you know, to go out there.  But, you know, I respect him.  I'm happy for him.  I hope I can play my best tennis and to trying to enjoy the 10,000 people against me.   
No, is nothing bad, nothing bad.  If it is going in position opposite, when coming to Taiwan to play, of course people will supporting me.  But unfortunately I'm now in Canada (smiling).   
Again, I'm happy for him, and I hope I can play good tennis tomorrow.   
 Q.  You have two previous matches against Milos.  What have you learned from those matches?  
YEN-HSUN LU: I mean, he's, you know, powerful, powerful player and very big serve.  Very difficult.  You have to, you know, break his service games.  Is important if you can trying to play solid in my service game, you know, and waiting for the chance.  This is only the key points.   
But, I mean, now in the last past several year, he's improve a lot.  He getting more stable from the baseline.  He plays all different kind of game.  He can come in.  He's making the opponent more difficult.  Same to me.   
So for me still, if I can trying to make more ball into the court to play and have a little bit better chance.  Fortunately I have to focus on my service game to stay with him and to maybe give him a little bit pressure and waiting for him maybe a little bit getting nervous from the tensions and give me the chance.   
So this is what I have to focus on.   
 Q.  I think you played Washington last week.  Now you're here.  Is hard court your preferred surface?  Do you enjoy playing on it the most?  
YEN-HSUN LU: I think so, because I grew up on hard court.  I mean, is natural, natural for me.   
But I doing pretty well on grass court, too.  I mean, still, on hard court you don't need to, you know, adjust again.  You can go on and, you know, play, you know, naturally get used to the tempo of the games and also movement.   
So for me I prefer hard court, but, you know, every tournament is different.  Last week in Washington was hot and humid, and here you come here -- of course first two days, Friday, Saturday, was also hot but it's different, a little bit dry.  And the court I think also a little bit difference.   
I mean, it's a hard court, but still, for Sascha today, he's just arrive two days ago or one days ago.  I mean, he has readjust new condition again.  It's pretty tough for him.  But, I mean, this is a challenge.  This is for everyone a challenge.   
I took the chance.  I took the advantage.  I'm happy I play well today.   
 Q.  Congratulations for today's win.  I also saw you in Washington.  It seems to me that you are playing a lot more with confidence.  You were able to get out of the trouble through your serve, which normally I don't see that.  My question is that with today's opponent, who is a hot server but loves pace, you vary your shots quite a bit.  In the past your shots are always sort of, to me, flat and, you know, now you have a little bit more clearance over the net.  You chop the ball and move it around quite a bit and got him frustrated.  Against a power player like that, I was wondering whether you would be utilizing the same tactic against Raonic tomorrow like that?  
YEN-HSUN LU: Actually, they are different type of players.  Of course last week against Monfils, honestly I have no chance.  Overpowering me.  He was making two, three aces per game.  He serve so -- I mean, I just standing there and watch the ball to go winner and winner.   
It means I'm not trying -- I want to try but I just not reach the ball.  He's playing too good.   
But today I know even Sascha is different player.  He has a big serve, but because he step far away from the baseline, you know, even points he need a little bit more timing, he play more spin.  So I know what kind of strategy today I need to put it into the match.   
So I play, you know, no rush.  Even I trying to play his weak part and then I can come through the points and to win the points.   
So is different.  But, you know, against Monfils is different.  He was really too good for me.  But I only can win maybe one moment or one game he drop and I took the chance and come back.   
And about Raonic, again, I really have to stay in my service game, you know.  Then try, if I have a chance, to giving the pressure from his service game.  But the key point is still -- you still have to be solid in your serve.  If you can always catch him, catch him, then he will start to feel the pressure and then he will maybe miss couple of first serve, and then you may have chance to play for a rally, to control points.   
Outside this, you don't need to think about too much or should you play to forehand, play to his backhand, because his weapon is serve.  If you can, you know, stopping his weapon, then you already save half games.  This is why we have to look on tomorrow.   
But again, he's one of the best player right now.  For me, I really need to, you know, to stay very strong in my serve and hope I can, you know, always catch him and give him some pressure.  Yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT