SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 13, 2010
Yen-Hsun Lu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. LOPEZ/Y. Lu
  7-6, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. Could you share with us your version of the match? 
 YEN-HSUN LU: (Through translation.) The points are 7-6, 6-3. Actually, I was told different times, different schedule. Then because of the weather, there were changes again, so... 

 Q. I know you were arranged three matches to play. Do you think the schedule change is the main reason you lost the game? You looked very tired. 
 YEN-HSUN LU: (Through translation.) Well, the changes are the same to everybody. We waited the whole day yesterday. I came here at 9:00 in the morning. Of course, it's the same for me and my opponent. However, I don't know when I'm supposed to get onto the court. 
 Of course, it also consumed some of my energy. So it's a little bit different from ordinary days. So I think I'm experiencing some pressure. But I cannot blame the schedule change as the only reason for me to lose the game. But I have to say it had some effect. 

 Q. Could you tell us the reasons why you won the game on Wu Di, his advantages and disadvantages? Any advice to him?
 YEN-HSUN LU: (Through translation.) For the first match, well, all the practices and trainings were outside, but the match with Wu Di is indoors. I practiced about 20 minutes before we started the game. 
 The speed indoor and outdoor is different, so the feelings are different. Most of the time I tried to make sure that I can adjust to the indoor court. 
 I just want to tell myself that I need to concentrate and try my best. I tried to make sure that I can adjust my conditions and work hard. But I don't want to take risks because I'm not very familiar with the environment. 
 I think Wu Di is also trying to adjust and get used to the indoor court for the first time. 
 I think he's pretty good. He's very young. He has a lot of good qualities. He may need more time to accumulate more experiences. But personally I hope that he can have some weapons for him to win points. I mean, this way he can make some great improvements in the future. 

 Q. This year you beat Andy in a Grand Slam. With that, you are getting very popular in Taiwan. Compared to (indiscernible), which of you is more popular in Taiwan? 
 YEN-HSUN LU: (Through translation.) I don't know how to say that. For me, I know where to focus. I am very happy to see the recognition by others. I only focus on my performance on the court. A good performance on the court is a good thing for me. I really don't spend a lot of time paying attention to whether I'm popular or not. 
 For Wong, I also hope he can have good performances. We encourage each other. This is a good thing for us because we Chinese have good opportunities to show our performance. 
 I think that in Asia, in many sports, tennis, golf and others, we have a lot of opportunities. 

 Q. I learned that you had quarrels and fights with other players. We have videos to prove that. Could you give us more details on that? 
 YEN-HSUN LU: (Through translation.) Yes, I went to a TV program. It's actually a U.S. player that I'm talking about. He finds it difficult to control himself during the match. Well, actually in that match, he told me about that, and made some complaints to me. But I think this is not helpful for him or for others. So in the TV program, I just shared with the host that U.S. player should be more in control of himself during the match. 
 Having said that, I think most of the players are pretty good. Most players are doing a pretty good job. 

 Q. As the male player in Asia which has the highest ranking, any advice to mainland Chinese male players? 
 YEN-HSUN LU: (Through translation.) Well, maybe I'm not in the best position to answer your question. I'm not in the position to comment on the performance of other players. 
 But I can tell you that over the past several years, I can see that a lot of tennis players in mainland China and other Asian countries are doing a very good job. Some of the players, such as Ze Zhang and others, Bai Yan, are doing a very good job. Maybe the result is not that satisfactory, but they control the match pretty well. 
 If it can be called advice, I hope that they can have more exposure and opportunities to participate in matches. That, of course, requires more communications with their coaches and trainers. 
 It's not that you work hard for one year and then you can achieve a leapfrog progress. But at least you need to make progress in a continuous manner. 

 Q. Some media say that Chinese tennis is not very professional. What is your reaction to that comment? 
 YEN-HSUN LU: (Through translation.) I am not very familiar with the tennis sports in mainland China, and I don't know what you mean by saying 'professional'. I know for many Chinese players, they have the chance to participate in future matches or challenger tournaments. I know that they are trying very hard to have good performances in these matches. 
 Of course, the more opportunities, the more exposure for these Chinese players, the better. It can help them gain experience. 

 Q. Going back to the match, I know that you didn't succeed in the tiebreak in the first set. Any areas in your opponent's game which is better than you which led to you losing the first set? How is your preparation for the Asian Games and other matches? 
 YEN-HSUN LU: (Through translation.) Well, talking about the previous match, I was in the lead by 4-1, but I didn't do a very good job in concentrating on the match and choosing the right tactics which led to a turnaround in the situation. 
 But for both of us it is brand-new because we are moving from outdoor to indoor. The situation, the environment, the speed of the ball, everything is different. If I can make fewer errors, maybe I can do a better job. 
 But generally speaking, I think I did a good job. But in some critical moments I didn't have the strongest desire to win the match, which led to the turnaround in the overall match. 
 I think in the future, I need to have more confidence in myself. Technically I think the gap is not that different, so I need to discuss more with my coaches about the details in the matches. 
 Maybe I cannot talk too much with you. In the future, I think I will have a lot of tournaments in Europe. I also want to participate in more matches in Asia. I will do preparations. I also want to have some time to make some personal adjustments. Hopefully I can have the best mental and physical conditions to participate in future matches. 

 Q. I think you look very tired, so my question is you beat Andy Roddick in Wimbledon and became very famous. You participated in a lot of TV programs. You went to different events. It seems that you look like a celebrity, a star. What is your feeling about that kind of life? Are you under a lot of stress? 
 YEN-HSUN LU: (Through translation.) Every day I tried to improve my techniques on the court. Hopefully I can achieve better performances. I have been working very hard. It's not that I aspire to be a big star. I just want to beat my opponents and have good performances. 
 You mentioned the different programs and events which made me busy, the difference now versus in the past. But I am very happy that I have the opportunities to do that kind of thing. On the other hand, my focus is always in the tennis court. Outside the court, if I have the energy, if it doesn't affect my tennis performance in my matches, of course I want to have a try. 
 I always try to have good performances on the court. I will continue to work towards that direction. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT