WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2010
Yen-Hsun Lu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/Y. Lu
  6-3, 6-2, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Yen-Hsun Lu. 

 Q. How do you feel you played this afternoon? 
 YEN-HSUN LU: Hmm, I think first of all I just congratulation for Novak. He's play very good today. 
 I mean, for my side, I already tried my best. Of course, he's great player. He give me a lot of pressure today. I mean, I try to, you know, stay lines and also I try to move him, but he's play better than me. 
 And so I have nothing to say. He's better player today. 

 Q. Was it a challenge, the sort of experience playing in the quarterfinals of a slam for the first time?
 YEN-HSUN LU: Yes. Is very special experience for me. But, I mean, today I'm going on the court, I'm not looking this match as quarterfinal. I'm looking today I play Novak Djokovic. He's No. 3 in the world. So I just looking for this match. 
 I mean, right now this match is finish, then I can start to think, Yeah, is good I'm in the quarterfinal and I finish this tournament. Is great memory to be think about. 

 Q. Do you feel maybe you struggled at times to get into your rhythm to play your best tennis?
 YEN-HSUN LU: I mean, the beginning, I also -- I mean, from whole match he control the match, control the points. And also, I try to raise up my level. Also I try to hit harder, and I start to miss. Then also he play very good point. 
 I play also some good point, but he's making me like I have no chance, no idea how I can change strategy to play him. So I think I only can say he's better; he's better than me. 

 Q. Now you got to one Grand Slam quarterfinal. Have you got more in you? 
 YEN-HSUN LU: I mean, is great. Is great for me. Now I know how I can reach the quarterfinal. Is good experience for me. 
 And I cannot say next time I play the US Open or next time coming back I have to be quarterfinal. But I know, and I knew, how I have to be, then I can reach the quarterfinal. 
 So I like to coming back here again and to play good tennis and to be ready next year. And also I hope I can play next time against Djokovic again. I mean, probably he's now happy. Today's too easy for him. I mean, I will try my best next year, yeah. 

 Q. What aspects of your game do you think you have to improve to compete with guys like Djokovic today?
 YEN-HSUN LU: I mean, I think of course probably I need to find some way to get the points. I think we play a little bit similar, but he's playing more fast, more aggressive than me. Also the returns, I have to bring more back to him, then I have chance to play the points. 
 So, I mean, everything I have, I still have space to improve. I mean, I'm not just think, Yeah, is great, is finish my career. I know I have many things to improve. Serve, you know. Physically, forehand, backhand, everything. I have to discuss my coach, conditioning trainer also, to see what we can do the next. 

 Q. How has your success here been greeted at home? Is it on the news? Are people interested back home?
 YEN-HSUN LU: Yes, like they are happy for me. And also, I mean, I make history for the tennis in Taiwan. I'm happy to get people together to support me, and this is the power. 
 I mean, because I do regret things. I happy to see the people sit together and support me. Even if today I'm sitting the TV to watch the other sports and they're doing good job, I also want to support with everybody. Yeah. 

 Q. You stood up very well to Roddick's very powerful serve in the last round. Today you seemed to struggle with Djokovic. Was there anything you were doing different?
 YEN-HSUN LU: Actually not. Probably, you know, maybe my physical went down. Is already fourth match and I have long match before. 
 I mean, also the Djokovic, from the returning, he give me more pressure for me. So I have to force myself, you know, to serve better or to serve good. But sometimes I overplay, and then I miss a lot of first serve. 
 So is a little bit mentally I give me my pressure. I tell myself, I have to serve good, and I make a net or out or didn't make good percentage in the first serve. 
 But I didn't change anything from the serve or adjust because I can only think these two reasons I didn't serve good, same against like Roddick, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT