FORD SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 1997
Larry Gilbert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LARRY GILBERT:  Thank you.  It's just -- this is incredible.  You think back now, of all those times you're on the practice tee hitting balls out there by yourself. It's just unbelievable.  You know, the dreams and the going through the little pretending you're on the 18th hole, needing to make a 15-footer for birdie to beat Jack Nicklaus in the US Open. All those times, they finally paid off.  This is a sweet victory.  It's just, you know, after the way I hit it yesterday, boy, wouldn't give a plug nickel my chances this morning.  But I came out on the practice tee and I told my caddie I was going to come out just a few minutes early and see if we couldn't find something.  And my caddie Ned McAfee is his name, is an excellent teacher.  He's a former golf professional himself.  And, boy, I mean, he just -- he did a job this week that, I mean, this victory is as much his as anybody's.  I've always said, you know, that regardless of what people think, you know, you can call golf an individual sport, but it's far from it.  It's a team sport.  I got a wife and two sons that are -- that are a big part of that team.  And when we're out there on the golf course, Ned, I make sure that he gets very involved in club selection, in reading greens, the type shots we want to play.  We normally agree on just about everything, and we work extremely well together.  And I know a couple other guys have tried to hire him away from me, and he doesn't want to go.  And, you know, I know that in the past he would have been able to make more money, but, you know, that's the kind of loyalty the guy has.  Today's round, you know, I just hit 3-wood right up the gut on No. 1, and just hit a little 8-iron, just took a little off of it and hit the flag.  Hit the flag pole on the first bounce.  And it stopped about two feet from the hole.  And from there on, you know, I felt like, you know, the swing was really going to be with me today.  And I hit a bad tee shot on the 3rd hole, hit it in the left rough, had to lay it up.  And laid it up to absolute perfect yardage for me.  I had 94 yards to the flag.  And I just played the ball a little bit left of the flag just to stay away from the bunker.  And I hit it right where I wanted to, knocked it about eight feet left of the hole and made the putt for  birdie there.  Then I hit 5-iron on the 4th hole, about ten feet, and Graham Marsh holed it out of the bunker for 2.  Ned just looked at me and said put it right in on top of him.  And, I did.  You know, from there on, you know, our confidence just got higher and higher all day.  I birdied -- where else?  I 2-putted 7 for birdie. And then knocked it close on 8 and 9 both, missed both of them.  I hit it about seven feet on 8 and about eight feet on 9.  And missed both putts.  I thought I hit good putts.  And then 10, I hit really the only bad tee shot of the day.  Just hit a 3-wood and hooked it over in the left rough, and had a very uphill lie.  Just wanted to make sure that I didn't knock the ball over the green.  I felt like if I left it short of the green, or to the left, I could get it up-and-down.  I pulled it, and that's the only green I missed all day.  I knocked it about four inches in the left fringe.  And then just hit an unbelievably good putt up there, about 14 inches short of the hole.  I 3-putted 13 for par.  Then 16, I knocked it about 14 inches from the hole again with a sand wedge from, I think we had 104.  You know, I get on the 17th green; I'm thinking  I've just got a one-shot lead.  And I'm trying to birdie 17, you know, because I've only got about 90 yards to the hole. And, hit, I thought, a real good wedge shot, about 15 feet, and then I look up on the board and I got a three-shot lead.  I wish somebody would tell me what happened behind me because I still don't know.  It's just, you know, I can't describe it.  I mean, it's just an unbelievable feeling. 
 

Q.  You used to have the dreams of pretending on the green?  Can you talk about that a little bit?
 
LARRY GILBERT:  Well, when I was a kid, you know, you're always thinking, you know, you're out there playing golf or practicing, you give yourself an 8-, or 10-foot putt.  All right, now, you're thinking, "I'm tied with Jack Nicklaus" or "Arnold Palmer", whoever.  "Last hole of the US Open, I got to make this to win."  You know, afterward, I feel it's a good drill, and still do, you know, to try and put yourself in that situation, even though it's imaginary, it helps you to relate back to that situation when the time comes.  And, you know, I probably missed 90 percent of those putts (laughter). 
 

Q.  Larry, since you seem so moved by this moment, is there anything comparable in your life to this?  You make it sound like this is some kind of very, very special moment.  Have you had other things, beyond your family, birth of your kids, anything comparable to this or is this so No. 1 that it stands out?
 
LARRY GILBERT:  Standing on the tee in a foreign country representing your country in a golf competition, and I've had the opportunity in foreign countries to do that four times. 
 

Q.  In what competition was it?
 
LARRY GILBERT:  The three times, the PGA Cup matches.  I played them overseas.  And in the Chrysler Cup in Mexico.  To stand there and see that flag raised in your honor, and knowing that you're representing 260 million people, it's pretty moving.  If a guy doesn't get choked up there, he must not be an American. 
 

Q.  Larry, can you talk about what this means for club pros?  You're another example of club pros who has won out here - you've won before - but can you talk about what that means?
 
LARRY GILBERT:  Yeah.  I think, you know, it gives them some incentive to continue working on their game because, you know, you never know what's going to happen.  To be perfectly honest, though, if I had it to do over again, I would probably do the same thing.  I would have probably, you know, took the gamble and came out here.  I had an awful lot of confidence in my ability to play the game.  And, I think once you get your confidence going, you know, you prove yourself a few times, then, you know, it's a great feeling. 
 

Q.  You thought you were just one open on 17, so were you unaware you had been tied by Stockton earlier in the round?
 
LARRY GILBERT:  No, I knew I'd been tied.  I knew he birdied 13.  And I thought, at that time, we were tied. What, did he make, a double bogey somewhere? 
 

Q.  Bogeyed two in a row.
 
LARRY GILBERT:  Oh. 
 

Q.  Dickson bogeyed one.  So you were aware at the end that you had a fight still going?
 
LARRY GILBERT:  Oh, yeah.  Yeah.  When I hit the second shot into 17, I knew -- at least I thought there was still a fight. 
 

Q.  What worked for you this week?  Was it all facets of the game?  Anything specifically?
 
LARRY GILBERT:  I think all facets.  I mean, even the day I hit it bad, yesterday, you know, I just thought real hard and gutted it out, was determined, you know, I was not going to blow up.  And, I think a lot of that, you know, I came out today thinking "Well, you know, I got my bad  round out yesterday, I don't believe I can play that bad again."  You know, and my bad round turns out to be even par.  So, you know, I felt very fortunate, you know, to get by with what I did yesterday. 
 

Q.  Did you talk to Deborah again yesterday?
 
LARRY GILBERT:  No, I haven't. 
 

Q.  Not since earlier in the week?
 
LARRY GILBERT:  Right. 
 

Q.  Have you had a favorite player?  Who was it and why?
 
LARRY GILBERT:  Oh, when I was a kid, it was Arnold Palmer.  I mean, you know, name a person my age that he wasn't their idol.  You know, the first time I played with him, when I walked off 18th green, I had tears in my eyes.  I mean, it was that much of a thrill to get to play with Arnold.  And, it's still a thrill for me to play with him.  And Jack, I mean, you know, where you going to find a classier guy? 
 

Q.  Did you like life as a club pro?  Did you enjoy that?
 
LARRY GILBERT:  Yes, I did, very much. 
 

Q.  And no regrets during that time about not coming out here? 
 
LARRY GILBERT:  None whatsoever.  Never once thought about it.  I knew I had a decision to make, and I made that decision, and I was very happy to stick with it. 
 

Q.  Were your kids still in college?  I mean, you were taking a pretty huge gamble there, weren't you?
 
LARRY GILBERT:  I had two boys in college when I quit my job to come out here.  Fortunately, both of them were on partial golf scholarships.  Yeah, it was a big gamble for me. 
 

Q.  Did you, like, sell the house and everything?
 
LARRY GILBERT:  No.  No, I didn't sell the house. We did dig very deep into the savings account (laughter). Like maybe the bottom of it. 
 

Q.  What club was that?
 
LARRY GILBERT:  Club in Lexington, Kentucky. 
 

Q.  What's the name of it?
 
LARRY GILBERT:  The Champions. 
 

Q.  Larry, which one of your sons was ill earlier?
 
LARRY GILBERT:  Allen. 
 

Q.  What exactly did Allen have?
 
LARRY GILBERT:  He had severe allergies.  He was allergic to dust, mold, mildew, and when you stay in third rate motels, what do you sleep in (laughter)?  I've got two sons now, I mean, they're both class acts.  Allen is a great young man.  Made us grandparents last year.  Chris is a great young man.  He's striving on the mini Tours to try to get his card.  I mean, he wants to come out here and do this every week. 
 

Q.  So he had allergies, Allen did?
 
LARRY GILBERT:  Yes. 
 

Q.  And there was no way to stay --
 
LARRY GILBERT:  At the time we didn't know about it.  When we found out about it, that's when we made the decision to get off The TOUR.  At the time he was -- when we went out on The TOUR, he was about six months old. 
 

Q.  And the allergies were to what?
 
LARRY GILBERT:  Dust, mold, mildew, milk, you name it.  You know, what do you feed a baby?  Milk.  If they are feeling a little bit bad, you give them more milk. 
 

Q.  Feeling better when you got off the road?
 
LARRY GILBERT:  When we found out exactly what the problem was, yeah.  We took him to an allergy specialist, got him on the shots. 
 

Q.  Larry, when you were having these imaginary things, putting against Palmer and Nicklaus, that wouldn't have been at Doe Valley or The Champions?
 
LARRY GILBERT:  We were at Fort Knox when I was learning how to play, and, yeah, at Doe Valley, too, and a couple weeks ago (laughter). 
 

Q.  Did you get a lot of inspiration from people like  Laoretti and Tom Wargo, the other club pros that came out here and won, did that give you further proof to yourself that you could win?
 
LARRY GILBERT:  When I won the National Club Pro for the third time in 1991, I was 49 years old, I beat a lot of good, young players.  And I decided then, you know, that I still had some golf game left in me.  And then when Larry Laoretti - I did not know at that time, I'd never met Larry - I knew Jim Albus, and Jim had won this tournament.  In fact, this was his first victory.  And then Rives McBee had won a couple of times. You know, Reeves and I have been friends for 20 some years. And, you know, I just figured, you know, I've been beaten Reeves pretty regular, you know, before he came out here.  I said, well, evidently, you know, he's really honed his game.  And he had.  But when I got out here and started to -- decided to devote my time to playing, then, you know, I started to hone my game and things got a lot better.  And, you know, I just -- I felt like, you know, I could compete. 
 

Q.  What did it feel like, Larry, when you were walking up the 18th green, and the crowd was there?  What was going through your mind?
 
LARRY GILBERT:  All of those times on the practice tee, how proud my mother and father would be. 
 

Q.  What were your mother and dad's names, Larry?
 
LARRY GILBERT:  Bill and Thelma Gilbert. 
 
LARRY GILBERT:  Thank you. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT