ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 6, 2017
Dino Babers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DINO BABERS: Well, we had a fine contest against Central Connecticut State and got banged up, good football team, got off to a fast start, and things worked out our way.  We're looking forward to the contest against Middle Tennessee, and we know that they've got a fine club.
Q. To look into this defense that you'll be going up against, obviously a former head coach of Syracuse, Scott Shafer, and likes to blitz a lot, what have you taken from the film defensively?
DINO BABERS: Well, first of all, I know Coach Shafer is coming back and it's going to be a fantastic contest.  I just want to take my hat off to Coach Stockstill.  He's got a fantastic football team, he's got a fantastic quarterback, who happens to be his son, and I know that this game is bigger for those football players on his team and my team than it is for Coach Shafer coming back or some kind of anything else that has to do with Syracuse and Middle Tennessee.  I think it's between the young men, and I think it's going to be a fine contest.
Q. And then as far as what's going to be happening at the game honoring a team that went undefeated 30 years ago with guys like Robert Drummond that were local to the community and will be honored that day, just what you can say about having that ceremony and honoring the history of Syracuse as you obviously prepare for a positive present and even a better future.
DINO BABERS: Well, what a team.  The 1987 team completely undefeated, finishing up fourth in the nation.  Don McPherson ending up second to the Heisman Trophy balloting, and then going down and playing that Auburn team to I want to say it was a 13-13, 16-16 tie.  Fabulous season, a team that should be honored, and hopefully we can make them proud that day.
Q. How do you handle some emotions that might be there with players who were recruited or coached by Coach Shafer going into this game?
DINO BABERS: Well, you know, I think it's going to be one of those situations where, you know, those guys want to go out and prove themselves.  Coach Shafer has recruited and coached most of the guys on this football team, and it's an opportunity for them to go out and kind of show their dad what they've grown up to be, what kind of men they've grown up to be, so it should be fun for him and for them I'd imagine.
Q. When you looked at the evaluation from last week, what did you come away with in terms of what Dungey was able to do in his first game of the season?
DINO BABERS: He graded out very high for us.  It was a very high grade for a quarterback coming back his second year in his very first game.  It might be the highest grade we've ever given a quarterback.  So he had a fantastic game, and we would expect for him to continue on that path and hopefully come out of this thing unscathed.
Q. Any kind of update on Antwan?  Has he been able to practice this week?
DINO BABERS: Well, I'm not going to talk about who's been at practice, who hasn't been able to practice, but he's been out there, and we're hoping for the best for Mr. Cordy.
Q. What do you mean when you say he's been out there?
DINO BABERS: He's been at practice.
Q. But you don't want to say how much he has or hasn't practice, I've got you.
DINO BABERS: Yes, sir.
Q. And then on another note, we saw Rex Culpepper on kickoff returns and kickoff coverage, certainly not a common role for a quarterback.  How did that come about, and what does he bring to specials?
DINO BABERS: You know, I just think that for Rex's development, we need to try to get him on the field as much as possible.  Obviously he had a decent showing playing quarterback for us later on in the second half, but any time that you can step on the field, it's going to help you as a football player, and it's going to help your confidence.  You're talking about a guy that's not -- it's very unusual, very strong in the upper body, very strong in the lower body, very intelligent, tough kid, and just too tough of a kid and too good of an athlete to be standing next to us waiting for an opportunity to play quarterback.  We've got to get him on the field, and by getting him on the field, I think that's even going to help him when he does play quarterback for us.
Q. On senior linebacker Zaire Franklin, what was your first impression of him if you recall that, and how does he look on the field?
DINO BABERS: My first impression of Zaire Franklin was a very serious person that goes about his business and very well-rounded individual on and off the football field.  Obviously he's been a two-time team captain with an opportunity to be three.  He's a very solid individual, a very solid player, and I think he's been playing extremely well on the field.
Q. How does Austin Valdez look so far, both in practice and then in his first game with a few tackles?
DINO BABERS: Valdez has been a backup for us.  You know, he's getting in there playing some linebackers.  We're very deep at that position.  I think he has a lot of value for us on special teams, and if we get in a situation where maybe somebody gets banged up, I think he could come in for a game or two and help out that depth with a couple of starts.
Q. Before the season you were discussing Steve Ishmael and how you felt like a lot of the guys improved in the receiving corps but maybe none more than Steve.  What did you take away from his first game and his performance and what he did against Central Connecticut State?
DINO BABERS: Well, I think what he should have done.  Athletically he was a little bit better than those guys, and he needed to peacock a little bit, show off, and he did.  He ran around, he made plays.  He was very aggressive with the ball in the air.  You could see all the hard work over the summertime had paid off him between and the quarterback.  They had a little chemistry going on, so to speak, and hopefully that'll continue throughout the season.
Q. And then as far as Jordan Martin, who stood in with Antwan Cordy going out, I know he came in as a transfer from Toledo and we hadn't seen him in a Syracuse uniform until that moment.  How did you feel his debut went?
DINO BABERS: You know, just okay.  Cordy is one of the best players on our football team, so that position has been doing fabulous things for us.  I thought Jordan came in and did a solid job, and if he's needed to play there again, hopefully he'll continue to get better and better.
Q. Just wondering how much of a difference now that you're no longer a rookie coach at Syracuse, how much of a difference has there been this year trying to teach structure, scheme, philosophy, culture, as opposed to being a new coach?
DINO BABERS: You know, I think that the biggest advantage of going through the second year is going through the conference the second year.  I've been a head coach for a while.  I've taught culture for a while.  But the biggest thing is having the experience, and once you get back into the ACC and playing ACC games and playing the ACC Atlantic games, seeing the football team, knowing what you need, seeing the other football teams, knowing what you need in recruiting, and going against those coaches one time really gives you a lot of experience when you're setting up the game plan the second time around.
Q. From the last six weeks or so, what's maybe the most improved aspect of your team now versus day one of camp?
DINO BABERS: I think the biggest thing is there's a swag about them.  I think there's a confidence about them.  I think they realize they have an opportunity to be good.  I don't think they believe that they're there yet, but if they continue to work hard and take care of their business on and off the football field, that this could be a special year.  We have a chance for it to be a special year.  Now we've got to go out there and we've got to do it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT