ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 26, 2016
Dino Babers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DINO BABERS: Well, I just thought the team played extremely well versus Boston College.  It was a fine game, and it was a tough, physical game.  We are really excited about having a bye this week.  We need that time to heal, and we also -- it gives us time to work with some of our twos and threes and turn it into a little bit of a spring practice and help the underbelly of our team continue to develop.
Questions?
Q. Your first ACC game here was the longest Syracuse has played in three years.  This year's average nationally is about 15 minutes longer than it was 20 years ago.  What are your thoughts on these games getting significantly longer, both here and at the national level?
DINO BABERS: Well, I think, first of all, we've got to remember that 15 to 20 years ago we didn't have instant replay, we didn't have all the ESPN, ABC, CBS, all these different TV timeouts that really slow down the game.  Also, I think football teams are throwing the ball more than they threw the ball 20 years ago, and when you have an incomplete pass the clock stops.  I think those are probably the three main reasons why games have gone a little bit longer.  I imagine if you like seeing the ball in the air and you like seeing that kind of football, I think that's what we're going to have to grow accustomed to.
Q. What did you think of Coach's conduct on the sideline on Saturday, and will he be on the sideline for the rest of the season?
DINO BABERS: Well, first of all, that stuff has already been handled by the ACC.  They've made an announcement.  Our athletic director has already made an announcement, and I'm just going to leave it at that and make some comments on the rest of that stuff.
Q. Just kind of generally speaking, scrums like that on the sideline do happen.  I'm curious, have you after the BC game or before the BC game talked to your staffers?  What do you want coaches to do in those kind of situations?
DINO BABERS: You know, I think if you really watch the video that I thought it was a positive video except for the one thing that came up.  I think if you watch what the Boston College coaches did and you watch what our coaches did, you say scrum, there was no blows, nothing was thrown, no fists, no -- I thought both staffs handled it the correct way, except for the one incident which has been handled.
Q. This is a little off subject, but you were the first person to hire Sterlin Gilbert on a college level, and I was wondering what you saw in him to kind of take a coach on a high school coach from Texas and bring him all the way up to Eastern Illinois.
DINO BABERS: Well, first of all, Sterlin had a lot of experience in the offense that I wanted to run.  He came highly recommended by the people that I really believe knew the most about the offense, and those people vouched not only for his coaching abilities but also for him as a person, and I think that they were exactly right on both cases.  He's an excellent coach, and he's a good person.  That was all I needed to bring him into the family, so to speak, and to make him a member of my staff.
Q. He's facing Baylor for the first time in his career, and I know he never coached there, but what does it say about the proliferation of that system and that coaching tree, that coaches that have never actually coached at Baylor are starting to come up against Baylor running that system?
DINO BABERS: You know, this has never happened before.  The system has never gone against the system, so this is new ground.  I don't have much to say.  It'll be interesting to see what happens.
Q. Obviously you've got some big games here coming up after the bye.  Do you feel like it's coming at a good time for you to get ready for this stretch against three teams that are probably going to be bowl games, or would you like to keep going because of the momentum you've built here over the last couple weeks?
DINO BABERS: No, we really needed the bye.  You know, a lot of times when you have a bye, you start off the next game a little bit slower, but we really needed the time to heal.  The Virginia Tech, the Boston College, the Connecticut, those were physical games, they really were, and we're banged up.  We need our guys to get some rest.  We need to go out and do some coaching.  Our players need to work on their studies a little bit, and then we need to come back together and get ready for the last third of the season.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT