NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DEVILS v RANGERS
May 22, 2012
Ryan Callahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RYAN CALLAHAN:   Haven't had a chance to close out any in the second game, that two‑game lead.   I guess it's a positive, we're used to the situation.   We've been in it two other times.   
Like you said before, we've got the best of three, two at home.   And it's something we've been through, we know how to prepare for it, and we'll be ready for tomorrow's game.  
   
 Q.   I know the games are tight but how do you create a little more offense?  
RYAN CALLAHAN:   I think it begins with everything right from our defensive zone, trying to limit their time there and closing guys out to getting pucks in away from Marty and trying to get a forecheck, hold onto some pucks and get some shots.   It's all of our game that needs to‑‑ I think, to raise a level, it will create offense.  
   
 Q.   Was it lack of composure in the last game or was it something that comes up in the third period?  
RYAN CALLAHAN:   It's something that comes up.   It happens in the Playoffs.   You run on emotions.   It's part of it.   And we obviously have to stay out of the box more.   They got a good power play, and go into the box that many times, you're not going to win a game.   I don't think it had to do with any of us getting our emotions higher.  
   
 Q.   (Question off Microphone)?  
RYAN CALLAHAN:   Exactly.   I think that plays into it, too.   They were up three with how many minutes to go, and the guys get a little more emotional and it's a one‑goal game.  
   
 Q.   With Prust back...  
RYAN CALLAHAN: Prust does a lot for us, killing penalties, brings a lot of energy, harder on the forecheck.   Need to get our forecheck going.   It's good to get him back.  
   
 Q.   Just the emotion and getting the fans behind you?  
RYAN CALLAHAN:   Yeah.   We're comfortable playing here.   We love playing here.   We've got these fans.   They're going to be loud and it's going to be an exciting game.   And we're just excited to get going.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel it's a race for the first goal in this series?  
RYAN CALLAHAN:   It seems that way with two big goaltenders and two great defensive teams.   It seems like you want to get that one or two and it's whoever gets it first.   But just have to keep our composure.   If they score first or we do, we just have to keep going and try to put a full 60 together.  
   
 Q.   Considering (indiscernible), do you have to try to replicate the desperation early on in Game 5?  
RYAN CALLAHAN:   We have to concentrate on our start.   That's a big thing for us the whole series.   I don't think we started games well.   We've addressed that here and we've realized that we need to be better at the beginning of the game.   Especially the way they come out, how hard they come at you.   That's something we need to be better with.  
   
 Q.   It's not a must‑win game, do you view it as a must‑win period, that first period?  
RYAN CALLAHAN:   No, I don't think it's ever a must‑win.   If we're tied or down after the first period, the game isn't over.   I don't classify it as a must period.   We need to be better in it that's for sure.  
   
 Q.   Why do you think you haven't been able to start well?  
RYAN CALLAHAN:   A little bit of everything.   I think it has to do with them coming hard at us, we have to control that.   And us getting on our forecheck and that's where we're successful, and we need to keep rolling it over and holding onto some pucks and if we do that we'll get our confidence in the first and be going.  
   
 Q.   The way they're playing, is this the hardest like physical series you've been through so far?   
RYAN CALLAHAN:   Probably the hardest forechecking team, where they're at now, pursue pucks.   I think they're hard that way, yes.  
   
 Q.   Is there a cumulative effect‑‑ does it wear people down (indiscernible)?  
RYAN CALLAHAN:   You can't let it.   It's part of it.   You expect that in the Playoffs.   You're going to see it.   We'll try to do the same thing for them in their D.   You get this late in the Playoffs you'll be facing teams that come at you hard or are that good as a team.  
So it's something you have to get through and get used to.  
   
 Q.   Two out of three with the home ice advantage, would you take those odds?  
RYAN CALLAHAN:   Yeah, I mean it's good.   This is why we wanted home ice in the beginning of the year.   And for this situation here where we have a Game 7 at home and game 5 at home.   Best of three and we've been here before and we're prepared.  
   
 Q.   How do you respond with more energy than you showed in the last game?  
RYAN CALLAHAN:   It's our start.   We have to be better.   There's no secret there.   The starters need to be there.   We get into our forechecks, get our confidence, and hold onto some pucks; and if we do that we'll be successful.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT