SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 4, 2021
Kyra Elzy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Kentucky 73, Florida 64
 THE MODERATOR:   We are ready to continue with Coach Kyra Elzy.  Questions for Coach.
 Q. Could you talk a little bit about the way that Treasure seems to get better.  Also the two shots that Blair Green hit for you in the fourth quarter that got you going again.
 KYRA ELZY:   Yeah, so proud of Treasure.  Treasure is extremely talented, a gifted scorer.  The transition in college for her was difficult.  But now the light bulb has went off.  She is playing with confidence.  She made some big plays for us today.  Very efficient scoring, but also had four assists and some big rebounds for us.
 Then Blair, I thought she came in and gave us momentum, two huge shots to get us going.  So proud of Blair and her hustle defensively as well.
 Q. I want to ask you about the game tomorrow.  Does it help or hurt you guys as a coaching staff that you just had them a week ago?  What are some things that you might be able to look at and improve on going into tomorrow afternoon's game?
 KYRA ELZY:   Well, the thing about this game, Georgia is a tough team.  They are aggressive defensively.  They're well-coached by Coach Taylor.  We'll be in another dogfight.
 I do think it does help that we just played them.  Obviously there's some things, areas in which we can get better.  We'll go back and reevaluate the film together as a staff.  But one key thing we'll have to do tomorrow is rebound the basketball.
 Q. It looked like there late in the fourth quarter you guys were finally able to stop Kiara Smith at the end.  What changed there?
 KYRA ELZY:   Kiara Smith had an unbelievable game.  I mean, hats off to her.  But we just talked about it in the huddle, we needed somebody to step up.  We started trapping her off the ball screen.  We went to denying her the ball, trying to face guard.  We just challenged our guards.  We have to step in front of her, make her score over defense.
 But I thought the trapping really helped us, made her give the ball up.
 Q. Did you get any sleep last night?  What was your mindset?  Were you nervous getting into the ballgame?
 KYRA ELZY:   I didn't get much sleep.  However, you know, Coach Dunn and I visited.  She was just like, Rest your mind, positive, you are prepared for this moment.  Go over the game plan, then trust your gut instincts.
 That's what I tried to do today.  At the end of the day we have been battle-tested, we have been put in the fire all year long.  So we came with a positive mindset, excited and ready to go.
 Q. Olivia Owens, I believe I saw her on the sideline, but didn't see her play at all.  What is up with her right now?
 KYRA ELZY:   No, Olivia is good.  This is coach's decision.  I liked the lineup that was in the game.  That's what I went with during that time.
 Q. It didn't seem like quite a typical Chasity game today from an energy standpoint or an efficiency standpoint.  Bad perception on my part or was that just not her best today?
 KYRA ELZY:   I thought Chass was efficient.  I mean, she was 3-for-5.  Probably didn't score as much as we are accustomed to.  But Chasity is talented and she has been consistent for us all year.  She'll be back and revved up and ready to go tomorrow.
 Q. Rhyne with another good performance, 27 points.  I asked her about 'Rhyne Time'.  She said it's kind of something she brings upon herself when she kind of has a feeling late in a game that she has to do a little extra.  Talk about what 'Rhyne Time' means to you and how valuable that is to this team.
 KYRA ELZY:   Well, she does.  'Rhyne Time' is her thing.  But what I love about Rhyne is she's pretty steady.  She doesn't get too high.  She doesn't get too low.  She has a great feel when it's time to take over the game.
 She made big plays for us today.  But 'Rhyne Time' doesn't necessarily always mean just scoring.  That might be a defensive stop, as you saw today.  She got on the floor several times getting a key rebound.
 But 'Rhyne Time' to me is that she is going to will her team to victory and whatever it takes.
 Q. I want to talk about 'Treasure Time' some more.
 KYRA ELZY:   (Laughter).
 Q. You said about two or three weeks ago she had a great practice, the best practice of the year, the light bulb went on.  What do you think resulted in that light finally going on for somebody as talented as she is?
 KYRA ELZY:   I want to talk more about 'Treasure Time', too.  I like 'Treasure Time', as well.
 It was the day before we played Georgia, she had her best practice of her college career.  In that moment I was like, The light went off.  She understood.
 I just think it just takes time, the transition to college, the physicality, the pace, trying to find your way and where you fit.  Now she's just playing with so much confidence.  She can play the three, she can play the four.
 We just remind Treasure what you can undeniably do is score.  That's what she was known for in high school.  She's bringing that now to college.  But I just like that she is playing with confidence.  She has an extremely high basketball IQ and size that can help us on the defensive end.
 Q. A question about Dre Edwards, too.  She is so talented.  She looks like she only has one speed.  I'm sure you've done things to try to slow her down so she's not rushed.  What do you think the key to really allowing her game to explode is?
 KYRA ELZY:   Dre is extremely talented.  You know, a lot of people forget, she played her freshman year, then she sat out with injury during her redshirt year.  This is really her first year back playing.
 Yes, sometimes her timing is off.  She only knows one speed, and that is fast.  But I would rather her play fast and us have to slow her down.  That will come with time, with extra reps, just a feel for the game.
 Dre has made big plays for us this year.  But she'll continue to learn and grow through this experience.
 Q. You said all along that bench strength is a big advantage for your team.  Looks like that's going to be the case.  How confident do you feel that's going to continue to be probably the major strength of your team?
 KYRA ELZY:   Well, yeah, coming down the stretch you have players that are going to be consistent.  You know what they're going to get.  But we've talked about it all year, our bench.  They are the X factors that are going to have to step up and make plays.  Blair Green coming in scoring, Treasure, Robyn Benton, Dre.  Those are the X factors that we are going to have to have to step up if we want to make a run.
 Q. You play again in less than 24 hours.  I assume the schedule will incorporate some film work, a lot of rest.  What will be the schedule between now and when you tip off again?
 KYRA ELZY:   You are correct.  A lot of rest, film, preparation for Georgia.  Make sure we're hydrated.  We'll go back, learn from this game and see what we can take forward to tomorrow.
 THE MODERATOR:   That's all the time for today.  Thank you.
 KYRA ELZY:   Thank you.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT