NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
June 5, 2013
Matt Greene
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   We've been talking this morning about injuries.   Aren't you guys really upset at what happened to your teammate with the high sticking and everything?
MATT GREENE:   Yeah, but you can't dwell on it.   We're here to win games, not worry about what happened in the past, what got called.   That's it. 
Our focus has to be going into Game4. 

Q.   You went over to the referee after it happened.   What did he tell you?
MATT GREENE:   He said it's a judgment call where it's an intent to injure.   He didn't think it was.   So it's a four‑minute penalty.   That's it. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MATT GREENE:   You know better than I do, yup. 

Q.   But in the back of your mind, it has to be there.   You're remembering what happened to your teammate, how you can retaliate, whatever?
MATT GREENE:   No, you're upset obviously.   You got to play within the rules.   You got to play a hard game. 
Our whole mentality is to play a physical, grinding game, to be hard on their skill guys.   That's our game plan.   Everyone knows that.   You have to do it within the rules. 
If you're going to let that get into your head, answer back with something illegal, you're going to hurt your team. 
You can't do that.   You have to be worried about playing our game, doing what we can to get wins here. 

Q.   Is there a sigh of relief after getting that first victory in this series?   What is this mystery about playing so well at home?
MATT GREENE:   You got to play well at home.   You got to come out in front of your fans and put on a good show. 
Obviously want to carry that over to the road.   We want to get a big start here coming in tomorrow night.   We also got to keep continuing that. 
Like I said, they're a good team.   It's just about keeping pace in that series right now.

Q.   How much did last year's run through the playoffs help you guys with what you're dealing with now?
MATT GREENE:   Experience helps, you know.   A lot of guys, been in Western Conference Finals before.   Pretty much our whole team has.   Now it's just time to deliver on that, use that experience to help us out. 

Q.   How do you have to change your game being paired with Muzzin or Martinez?
MATT GREENE:   Not much.   Both are good players.   Both are really good puck movers.   It's pretty much playing the same way. 
I've played with both of them enough now that it's a pretty easy transition. 

Q.   Obviously we've seen Toffoli make an impact.   What impresses you about him?
MATT GREENE:   Just his ability to get pucks to the net.   There's a lot of guys, you see them when they come up, just the puck finds them.   They have a great way of getting the puck back to them.   He's a guy that does that really well. 
That's definitely a skill that a lot of guys don't have, find the puck, get a good shot off.   The majority of the time it's not easy to do.   He's finding a way to do it a lot.   It's a skill that he's worked a lot on.

Q.   Talk about maturation process for Slava as the season went on and now in the playoffs. 
MATT GREENE:   Slava has been great.   He's been great last year since he got called up.   It was a bit of a logjam here before he got up here.   But he's been awesome. 
Same thing from when I first got here.   We knew we had a really good player with him.   Now he's delivering.   He likes being in the play.   He really does a good job of taking care of his own end.   He's been great.   We've seen that since day one, though. 

Q.   Told us last year you were learning a little bit of Russian from him.   Has that continued since last year?
MATT GREENE:   No.   I have one phrase. 

Q.   Which is?
MATT GREENE:   I'm not saying it (laughter). 

Q.   You have guys who are struggling to score goals.   He scores one when his stick breaks, still goes in.   He's leading the league in game‑winning goals.   Is that one of the rolls that players get on sometimes?
MATT GREENE:   Yeah, that's playoffs, man.   Crazy things happen.   That's it.   Sometimes you need that.   You need a little luck.   We got it last night. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT