NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v COYOTES
May 14, 2012
Matt Greene
Slava Voynov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Matt Greene.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
MATT GREENE:   He's by far the biggest part of our defense.   When he's playing well, he makes us look pretty incredible.   
   
 Q.   Doesn't it work the other way, too?   
MATT GREENE:   Not too much (laughter).   He's always a big plus.   Makes my job a lot easier.   
   
 Q.   What are you doing to disrupt their lines and space so effectively?  
MATT GREENE:   Trying to take away speed.   When they got a lot of the chances last night, it was because of them picking up speed in the neutral zone, hitting guys coming away with a lot of speed.   
We got to limit those chances.   Make sure we're slowing them down a little bit.   I think that's the main thing right now for everybody.   If you can get speed out of the neutral zone, you can have some success.   
   
 Q.   Guys are smiling.   Is there a good vibe in the team right now?  
MATT GREENE:   That's pretty normal on practice days.   Guys are always having a good time out there.   There's nothing you can do today about it, so I might as well have a good time, get your workout, get your practice in, come ready to the rink tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   I know he's not your partner, but Drew this season, have you seen maturity in him?  
MATT GREENE:   I don't think it's maturity.   
   
 Q.   How would you describe it?   How has he changed, do you think?  
MATT GREENE:   I think he's embraced his role a lot.   He's been our number one defenseman since he got here, I think minus the first two games of his career.   He took over that role.   He was doing it more out of fun, playing the game.   That's how he played, how he liked to play.   
Now he really embraced it.   He's our leader on the back end.   He does everything.   Plays in every situation.   I think he now really embraces it and enjoys it, too.   Kind of revels in it.   I don't think he's any more mature than he was before.   I don't think that's the right word.   I think it's more mentally acknowledging that.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Slava Voynov.   
   
 Q.   (Question about trade and need to play.)   
SLAVA VOYNOV:   I don't know how to answer it, you know.   
   
 Q.   How about when they made the trade?   
SLAVA VOYNOV:   Made the trade?   
   
 Q.   When they traded Jack, did you know it was your chance?  
SLAVA VOYNOV:   Yes, I knew it was a spot for me, big chance for me.   Coaches trust me.   
   
 Q.   How much faith did you have in yourself?   Did you have more confidence in yourself that you could do this?  
SLAVA VOYNOV:   Yes, I knew I can do this.   Before trade, told me be ready at all times.   
   
 Q.   You played with Willie Mitchell before that trade?  
SLAVA VOYNOV:   Yes, I think I played with Willie Mitchell all season, exhibition games, too.   
   
 Q.   So going in to play in the top‑four role, was it easier because you had the chemistry already?  
SLAVA VOYNOV:   It's for sure easy for me because really have lot of experience.   34 years old.   It's easy play with him.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT