LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 26, 2016
Raymond Felton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I'm just curious what made you decide to come play for the Clippers.  They're pretty loaded as it is, and you decided to come over here with this team.
RAYMOND FELTON: Oh, man, just to have an opportunity to play for something special.  This is a great organization.  It's a team that's been good for the last four or five years.  You know, being a 12-year guy, you want to go to a team where you feel like you've got a chance to do something special, and I feel like we have a chance here.
Q. Raymond, when you look at that backcourt, how do you see yourself fitting in?  Do you feel like you could play in a backcourt with Austin and Jamal, and in your mind what does that look like?
RAYMOND FELTON: To me it looks like a lot of fun to be honest with you, to have all of us out there at the same time.  I'm just here to do whatever Doc needs me to do, whatever role he needs me to play, whatever I need to do for this team, I'm willing to do it.
Q. You've seen the Clippers grow over the years, but how well do you know Chris Paul?  You played at North Carolina, he played at Wake Forest.  Have you had any matchups back during those days besides the ones in the NBA?
RAYMOND FELTON: Oh, no question, we definitely had a lot of battles, him being at Wake Forest, me being at Carolina, and it was fun, so now it's good to be on the same team as him.  It's definitely fun.
Q. You were almost a Clipper in a deadline trade a couple years ago.  Did you think you were going to be on this team that day?
RAYMOND FELTON: No, I mean, when those situations go on, you hear the rumors, you talk to your agent and you just wait to see what happens.  But yeah, that almost happened one time before.
Q. You've played with a lot of point guards in Dallas with Devin, Deron Williams last year, J.J. Barea, and there's a situation where you could be one of three guards on the court this year.  How does that situation in Dallas compare to the one here?
RAYMOND FELTON: Like I said earlier, it can be a very fun situation, you know, being -- having three guards on the court at the same time that can create, that can score, that can just make things happen.  It was fun.  It was fun at times when I was playing with J.J. and Devin at the same time, and sometimes D-Will, so just having the opportunity to do that here, it's going to be a lot of fun.
Q. Just curious, from somebody who played on another team, looking at this Clipper team, they've been good for a very long time now.  What do you think is missing?
RAYMOND FELTON: I mean, I think it's not about anything missing, just a lot of unfortunate situations where you have some injuries here, some injuries there, and sometimes that can hurt.  You can have an injury in the middle of the season and get a guy at the end of the year, get him back healthy, but just the chemistry is just a little broken.  So I think that's just been the main thing, just a lot of injuries that happened at the wrong time.
DraftScripts by ASAP Sports






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT