APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 10, 2017
Daria Kasatkina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. KASATKINA/A. Kerber
7-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Congratulations.  What were the thoughts when you beat the world No. 1?
DARIA KASATKINA: First, my thought was, finally, I made a match point, because I lose few good matches from the match point last year and this year already (smiling).
For me, it was important.  This match was very important for me.
Q. Talking about all those matches you were so close and fell a little bit short, when you talked to Vlado after those matches, what was kind of the mentality?  Was it frustration?  What did you learn to get yourself to this point?
DARIA KASATKINA: You know, I was feeling really sad after these matches.  I was crying and all this stuff.  But after, we made analysis of all these matches, and I was feeling that sooner or later I would start to win these matches.  So I hope this moment coming.
Q. You stayed so calm and composed facing the world No. 1.
DARIA KASATKINA: It's just the middle of the tournament (smiling).  So if I will get some shock or if I will be too much happy, you know, it's maybe can getting worse.
So I'm calm.  I'm happy that I won the match, and I'm looking forward to the quarterfinals tomorrow.
Q. You have had so many close matches against big names.  How far away do you think you are from the level of the very best in the world?  You're in the 20s at the moment in the world, so top 10, do you think you belong there?
DARIA KASATKINA: I was three matches from match point against top 10 players, and today I beat No. 1 in the world.  So I think I am somewhere close (smiling).
Q. You were telling, during the last coaching timeout, I think you were telling your coach that you were feeling nervous and everything.  How did you fight through those last few games?
DARIA KASATKINA: It was difficult to play today.  It was really hot, and also, I was nervous.  It's normal.
But we have some strategy for this, if I will get nervous, because sometimes you get it.  I just was trying to play every point, ball by ball, and that's it.  Don't think about what is coming, what the score.  Just play every ball 100%.
Q. You're next playing Konta.  Have you watched any of her this week?  What do you think of her generally?
DARIA KASATKINA: Today I watch, for sure, against my doubles partner.  But, you know, she has a good serve, good backhand.  She doesn't have so many weakness.  It will be good match.
And again, up against top-10 player.  I'm happy, because it's good to start the season when you play against the best so you can see where is your level.  Good preparation for Australian Open.
Q. You mentioned the start of this season.  How well placed do you feel for the Australian Open?
DARIA KASATKINA: You know, first tournament was quite nervous, because you never know how we will start the season.
Here, I'm feeling much better than in Brisbane.  I'm feeling more confidence, and I think I'm getting better and better for Australian Open.
Last year I played good there.  Hopefully this year will be better.
Q. When you look at the matches that you have had, the tight matches against top 10 and top 20 players where you didn't feel like you could close it, which one hurt the most?
DARIA KASATKINA: Against Pliskova in Beijing.  It was not about the score, about the opponent.  It was about my decisions in the important moments.
After the match, I was going to Vlado, to my coach, I say, I know everything.  You don't tell me nothing.  I know all my mistakes.  We don't talk about this match.
Q. Do you feel less nervous when you get into these situations but you feel the same where you can maybe handle it better?
DARIA KASATKINA: Yeah, sure.  You know, I'm still young and I'm learning.  It's normal that sometimes I can get some nervous or something like this.
It will getting better.  More situation like this, more it getting it better.  So we will see.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT