ROLAND GARROS
September 29, 2020
Daria Kasatkina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  D. KASATKINA/H. Tan
 6-1, 6-2
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Tell me about just kind of the emotions and concerns, maybe if you had any, going into the tournament, into today, and how you were able to manage to get the win.
 DARIA KASATKINA:   Well, as everyone knows I got injury before Roland Garros.  I didn't have, like, huge expectations, and I still don't.  So I'm just happy that I'm able to play, able to compete, able to slide on clay again, playing matches.  That's everything I'm, like, thanks-ful for.
 Q. Can you talk about the injury.  Obviously we saw it.  It looked bad.  We didn't know if you were going to be able to play Roland Garros.  What has the last week and a half been like for you in terms of getting it diagnosed and understanding what you could and could not do on the tennis court?
 DARIA KASATKINA:   At the end it wasn't that bad as it looked like.  I mean, obviously I couldn't continue the match.  I was not able to practice few days.  I mean, here I am, here we are, we're in Paris (laughter).
 Yeah, I mean, me and my team, we did everything possible for me to be ready to play here.  I'm actually lucky enough to play, to be able to play, on Tuesday.  I feel 100%.  Like, yeah, I still have to tape my leg.  On the court I feel absolutely free.  I was moving 100%, yeah.  My defensive game is there, which is the most important.
 Q. In terms of being able to play, you feel like you can do what you need to do?  The injury is not bothering you?
 DARIA KASATKINA:   No.  Yeah, I'm able to run.  I'm able to jump, to slide on clay, which is very important.  I can run any direction.  I can say that I'm ready 100% to play, to compete.  That's everything I need.
 Q. It seemed like in Rome, before all that happened, you were starting to find your game, the balance of your game.  Is that fair to say?  What do you think has clicked for you with respect to elevating your game now?
 DARIA KASATKINA:   I hope so, yes.  Because in Rome me personally, I felt the changes.  Maybe you could see this.  I mean, I'm enjoying again being on court, competing, not just trying to suffer and fight like crazy for every point.  I mean, I still do, I'm fighting for every point, but just in a different way, with pure joy, which I was trying to find for the last, I don't know, more than a year.
 I hope I can catch it and keep with me as long as I can.
 Q. Obviously you spent a lot of time on social media during lockdown.  Where did this creativity come from?
 DARIA KASATKINA:   From my brain.  Obviously, I don't know.  I mean, I spend a lot of time at home.  I was practicing, but I was so bored.  I had to put this creativity somewhere else.  I mean, I was watching few TikToks of (indiscernible), of Dasha.  I was, Maybe I can do something like this, maybe a little bit different.
 Yeah, I was trying to find the ways how to make the tennis life a bit more funny.  I hope you enjoy, guys.  Maybe I will continue to do it, but now I have much less time.
 Q. Do you think maybe you can continue this after your professional tennis?
 DARIA KASATKINA:   What do you mean, like to be professional TikTok-er?  I think it's a little bit early to think about it.  Maybe I'll just continue to do it partly, partly hobby.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT