HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
October 31, 2018
Daria Kasatkina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. KASATKINA/Q. Wang
6?1, 2?6, 7?5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You played with Qiang Wang five times.  How do you compare her level now with the previous years?
DARIA KASATKINA: Tough to say.  For sure she improved her game so much and always we have big, big matches.  We never have, like, the easy one.  Today we played another big match, so it's more and more difficult to play against her.
Q. That third set in particular, you guys were both struggling to hold.  What was going through your mind when you couldn't serve it out?
DARIA KASATKINA: The main goal was not to cramp at all.  Just lie on the court at the end of the game.  I was fighting against myself, against my body.  I'm happy that I was able to do this and went through.  After this, really getting confidence in myself.
Q. So you have a very long three?setter and you play next match tomorrow afternoon.  Are you happy with the schedule or not happy at all?
DARIA KASATKINA: When I saw the schedule, I was so happy, of course (smiling).  In the morning even before the match, I saw that I'm going to play tomorrow third match.  Of course I'm not happy with the schedule.  It sucks completely.  They put me tomorrow, like, not before 5.
For example, some players are starting to play Thursday and I play two matches in a row finishing my first match, I don't know what was the time, 10 p.m.  I play next day not even night session.  I mean, this is tough.
For sure, I will talk to someone maybe, maybe not.  It depends on my mood.  I don't think it was right to make the schedule like this.
Q. We noted that you are at your best performance this year and you have been listed among the top 10.  You have reached the highest level so far, but does that put any pressure on you?  Talk about that.
DARIA KASATKINA: I got a little bit of experience now, so I can deal with this pressure.  It's easier.  It's tough going through the expectations sometimes, but it's getting better and better.
Q. We noticed in the past few years you have climbed up all the way from top 30 to top 20.  This year you come to top 10.  What pushes you forward to have such a big leap?
DARIA KASATKINA: I didn't have, like, really big step.  I was going, like, slowly and slowly, further and further.  It's everything about hard work and patience.  My team knows how much we sacrifice together.  I hope we will not stop at this point and get more and more success.
Q. Your coach is getting more famous recently.  I really enjoyed his speech.  Do you guys talk about that, joke about it?  And how did he do tonight on his on?court coaching?
DARIA KASATKINA: Every day we joke about it, like, a hundred times per day.  He's getting more and more famous, and for sure I'm making jokes all the time.
Now more and more people call me 'Russian Wall,' and coming with this on?court coaching stuff and I know everybody is excited to see him more on court.  That's why I'm calling him every set, because of this.
I'm happy that he's thinking this way because for me, it's very important to get something like this on the court, when I'm on the court.
Q. You broke serve quite a lot today.  You're one of the best returners statistically this year.  You're going to have to break serve again tomorrow against one of the big servers.  Talk about what makes you such a good returner.
DARIA KASATKINA: I feel more confident in the return, like, I don't know, just from the nature.  I never work, like, hours and hours on return.  Of course I'm working on it, but not, like, crazy, like I said, like hours per day.
I just feel where to go, how to go.  That's it.  Nothing really interesting I can say about it.  Sorry.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT