AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2014
Jeremy Roenick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Always great to have you in the interview room.   We always need a hockey player in here to add levity.   Take us through your round today, where you did good and where you did bad.
JEREMY ROENICK:   It was a crazy round for me.   I go to the first tee thinking that my first hole is going to dictate where my round is going to go and I 3‑putted the first hole, made bogey. 
And then I came up to the second hole and I hit it in a good spot, but hit a bad shot and actually made bogey.   So I bogeyed the first two holes, and I'm sitting there going:   I think I'm in trouble.   And you bear down and make birdie on 3 and 4 and all of a sudden you're back in it.   Make birdie on 6 and all of a sudden things start to change. 
So I just try to stay level par.   If I'm in my first round I want to try to stay level par, 71, 72, 73, that usually puts you in the leaderboard coming into day two, and I've been on the top of the leaderboard and it hasn't helped me before.   So maybe one or two points back is not a bad place to be going into the weekend.

Q.   You ended up, you said, on the way up with bogey bogey on 17, 18.   So in between, those 14 holes were pretty solid. 
JEREMY ROENICK:   It was interesting, because we were coming into, we're coming into 15 and I said to my son, who was my caddie, I said if we can get one birdie in the last four holes where I was, I was going to finish about 22, 23, so if I can get one birdie and then par in, we're good. 
I birdied 15 and birdied 16.   So I birdied 15 and 16 right back to back.   So I mean, now I'm ahead of the ballgame.   So when you're ahead of the ballgame, you can ease up. 
And I eased up on 17.   I eased up on 18 to make sure I didn't make mistakes.   Mistakes are what are going to kill you early.   That's why I ended up making bogey bogey.   So like I said, 23, 24, 25 points, it's all the same right here.   But I didn't make the disastrous mistakes that are going to keep you from winning this golf tournament.

Q.   What's your opinion of Chad Pfeifer, wounded warrior is in the lead with 24 points.   How good is that?
JEREMY ROENICK:   I think everybody here in the United States right now needs somebody to kind of look up to and kind of to look at and go wow. 
And I don't know if anybody out there is like me, but anybody who has served in our military is a true hero to me.   And they can come back and have that fortitude to do something, whether it's business or whether it's sports or whatever the case may be, to make themselves feel like they are coming back to something relevant.
Our military is so‑‑ it's so great and the fact that we can have people come back and find things to do and find things that motivate them.   Motivation is a wonderful thing.   And obviously Pfeifer is motivated to beat a lot of professional athletes right now.   We need to make sure we keep him one notch under where he wants to be.

Q.   You spoke already about 17 and 18.   But I happened to be standing right there when you were asking the guys where your ball went on 18 and when they said the bunker your shoulders went down a little bit.   Didn't look like you were super happy with that. 
JEREMY ROENICK:   I wasn't happy.   I was in perfect position.   On Wednesday in my practice round I hit a 4‑iron, almost jarred it.   So the fact that I had an easy 6‑iron into that hole and I laid off it, it kind of disappointed me the fact that I was in a bunker.   Not only in a bunker but the hardest golf shot, the hardest shot in golf, which is the 50‑ or 60‑yard bunker shot. 
So I'm sitting there and I'm making sure that I don't make a mistake hitting that‑‑ I hit it about two feet, four feet short of the green.   And I like that shot.   So regardless if I made a bogey, I knew being in the bunker on the third shot, which‑‑ second shot, which I shouldn't have been, sometimes you take the good and the bad. 
On 14 I should have made bogey and I made a long sidewinding par putt.   So I look at it as maybe I should have made par on 10, but I should have made bogey or double on 14.   So it's like it's kind of even up.

Q.   You've always been considered one of the better players here.   You've been in the hunt a number of times.   You've had a lot of experience now.   What do you think it's going to take you to pull it off this year?
JEREMY ROENICK:   I played good today.   But I don't think I played great today.   I think there's another‑‑ there's two or three more levels to where I played today.   And I'm not going to make the same mistakes I made today tomorrow. 
So I like where I'm at, especially with some of the mistakes I made today, it's just uncharacteristic of me.   But like I said, you are going to take some and give some.

Q.   Last year on 17, your antics ended up making one of the top 25 moments in tournament history when you took out that pine tree with a forearm shiver after catching a pass. 
JEREMY ROENICK:   This is a tournament for spectators.   It's a tournament for television.   And I think I don't know who I'm playing with tomorrow.   But if it's a quarterback, you know I'm probably going to‑‑ I'm going to go vertical for something tomorrow.   But we'll give something for the media tomorrow. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT