DIAMOND RESORTS INVITATIONAL
January 12, 2018
Jeremy Roenick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. So great round today. What was the key to playing so well?   
JEREMY ROENICK: Just staying in myself. I love wind. I grew up in Massachusetts. So the windier it gets, the better I feel, to tell you the truth. When it got windier, I felt more comfortable. I just tried to hit it in the middle of the fairway, tried to hit it in the middle of the greens, and hit some really good shots.   
Made actually two really bad bogeys and one bogey that probably shouldn't have made, but it was one of those easy, no frills, no panic rounds. I didn't get any problems. I had to look at every pin. I had to look at every green. I like that. It's a little different for me.  
   
 Q. You played well in a number of celebrity events. Did that play into your comfort level coming into today, knowing that you played well before?   
JEREMY ROENICK: I like this golf course. Remember I like really fast greens, and there's a lot of room for the tee ball. My driver is treating me amazing right now, and with fast greens, I feel like I can make a lot of putts. I mean, I left a bunch out there, there's no question about it, but I think a lot of guys did too.   
Like I said, I had seriously no stress out there. I like to go around the game with no stress.  
   
 Q. Golf's fun when it's not stressful, right?   
JEREMY ROENICK: Yeah, there's no question. I made a bogey from 100 yards out, and I three‑putted. Everybody's going to do something stupid out there. As long as you can let those things go and make a couple bombs. I made a couple birdies I probably shouldn't have made, so it all evens out in the end.  
   
 Q. Does it feel good to come back and play in competitive golf events, being a competitor yourself?   
JEREMY ROENICK: It's the best. This is what we did for 20 years. I loved going on the ice and battling my body and battling the elements and winning hockey games and being the best competitor I can be. These celebrity events allow us, allow me to get those competitive juices back in there and focus in there and try to be the best competitor I can be. It's an amazing feeling.  
   
 Q. And what can you say about playing with Steve Flesch?   
JEREMY ROENICK: Steve was great. Just like everybody else, he had great shots, and he had shots he's going to want to take back, a couple three‑putts, a couple shots he knew‑‑ I mean, he killed the par 3s. He's the guy you grew up watching. I played with two lefties today. I had to make sure I focused in on not watching these two lefties play. Steve Flesch is an amazing guy. Hopefully, he plays well to move up the leaderboard.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT