U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 1, 2019
Lexi Thomson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Par 5 the first two days.  Today, 4 under on all the par 5s.  What clicked today?  
LEXI THOMSPON: I made up for it today, I guess.  It's funny, I didn't realize that.  I knew I was struggling on the par 5s a little bit, but I didn't realize I didn't birdie one until today.  My caddie reminded me of it when I birdied the first one.  We just caught a joke out of it.   
I just played it a little more aggressively.  I hit the fairways on, I believe, all of them.  I'm not too sure.  Just overall I was a lot more confident off the tee and committed to my lines a lot more, especially on the holes I needed to maybe go for on those par 5s or make those birdies.   
 Q.  You missed seven greens through three rounds.  Is that something that was a point of emphasis for you going into this tournament?  
LEXI THOMSPON: Again, another stat I didn't know.  It helps.  It helps so much out, especially on this golf course.  I think this golf course is very much a second shot golf course with these greens.  There's a lot more thinking involved with the false fronts and the run-offs on the sides.   
But it's important to hit the fairways as well because the rough is getting thicker, and I already caught a flyer on No. 10, so it is very important.  Hitting greens is always key.   
 Q.  Lexi, having won a Major before, how much confidence does it give you going into the final round of another Major?  
LEXI THOMSPON: Yeah, it gives me a lot of confidence.  Definitely helps.  But, you know, it's a totally different golf course, different event.  Really, I'm just going to go out into tomorrow with the same game plan as I did the last three days' play.  Play to my strengths and focus on doing my routine, committing to my lines, and just what I'm working on in my golf swing.   
Really, that's all I can do.   
 Q.  You're obviously a fan favorite.  How much are you feeding off the fans out here this week?  
LEXI THOMSPON: It was incredible.  There were so many people out there today.  It's great to see.  I didn't realize I was that much of a fan favorite.  I felt like I was in the Solheim on some of the holes with the cheers.  It's an amazing feeling.   
If you make a bogey, they're still cheering you on, rooting you on and keeping you upbeat.  I feed off that.  It makes the sport, honestly.  The fans make the sport.  That's why I love the game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT