ATP CUP
February 7, 2021
Evgeny Donskoy
Daniil Medvedev
Andrey Rublev
Aslan Karatsev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   First question to the captain.  Congratulations on winning the ATP Cup.  Give us your reaction to that.
EVGENY DONSKOY:   I'm pretty sure nobody wants to hear from captain (smiling).
Reaction?  It's unbelievable.  It's nice to be a part of the team as much as possible.
ANDREY RUBLEV:   You also played, not only captain.
EVGENY DONSKOY:   I'm just saying.  Happy.  I'm just actually more happy for the guys that they're achieving the level that is going to be out of the limit soon because they're playing unbelievable tennis.  This guy right here is going to play also.  You're going to hear his name soon.  Everybody said on our team to met him first time he was playing very good.
Very happy.  Of course, as much happy as possible to actually be.  Yeah, just wishing them to play the same like they played today in the main draw of Australian Open.  I hope -- not I hope.  If the level going to be the same, these guys going to see each other in the quarterfinals because I saw the draw.
ANDREY RUBLEV:   I don't want to see the draw (laughter).  I don't want to know.
THE MODERATOR:   Questions.
Q. Daniil, a comment on your decision of celebrating this time.
ANDREY RUBLEV:   He will start to play one backhand, spin one backhand.
DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   No, because it was a team tournament, this one is kind of not really celebration, like C'mon, like this.  I don't think I saw the video.  Mario Gomez did it sometimes when he was playing for Bayern.  It was my favorite player at the time.
Actually sometimes he didn't celebrate his goals also, not on purpose.  But sometimes he was doing this.  I really liked it, so I tried to copy it.  I don't think I did well, but it was funny.
Q. Daniil, talk about playing in front of crowds.  On court you said it was the biggest crowd you played in front of this week.  A few people were cheering for Matteo.  Are you somebody who likes to feed off the crowd?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Yeah, for sure.  I think we all feed from the crowd.  Even when we play without the crowd, we know we have to do our best, try to win tournaments, points.
It's really nice when people get into the match.  I think, yeah, he was down big-time in the second set when they were trying to pump him up.  It's a good energy.  No comment from the crowd.  It's a good thing.
I think we're all happy that the crowd is back at least here in Melbourne.
Q. I think this was your 10th win over a top-10 opponent.  Reflect on that, the form that you're in.
DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Yeah, that's great.  That's great.  I can't tell you anything else.  Yeah, usually I'm easy answering the question, but I cannot say anything.  Just it's really big achievement, I would say, because I also didn't lose a match.  Yeah, 10 matches against top-10 opponents, didn't lose a match in these 10 matches.
It's a big boost in confidence.  Even when you lose, you know that you're capable of playing this level, and it helps you for the next time to stand up.
Q. What if at that stage of the tournament you had to play each other?
ANDREY RUBLEV:   I wish.
DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   Yeah, it's going to be great.  You cannot change the draw.  If it happens, it's perfect.
ANDREY RUBLEV:   It's too long to talk about.  I mean, it's too far to say something about it now.  We have to go match by match.  Daniil have tough first round.  Me, I have as well, the German guy I never seen before, but I heard that he's playing really, really great.
We'll see what's going to happen.  We're not going to meet in second round, so we need to win couple of matches, and is going to be tough matches.
Q. Daniil, I imagine under normal circumstances you wouldn't like to have an event of this intensity so close to a major tournament.  Given the time in quarantine, do you think playing an event like this gives you an advantage because you have momentum?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   It can.  It's tough to say because it can both be negative and positive.  As you say, get the momentum going, sometimes it helps you.  I did last year, I won two tournaments in a row.  It's not the first time I did some good results in a row.
At the same time it's tiring.  Played four tough matches, yesterday especially.  Could have been playing tomorrow actually.  I'm lucky to play Tuesday.
We need to see after the tournament if it was a positive thing or a negative one.
Q. Daniil, do you feel you are one of the great candidates to win the Australian Open?
DANIIL MEDVEDEV:   I mean, it's not for me to decide.  Hopefully I can show a great level like I did these last matches, then I will have my chance to win matches.  That's the most important.
As you know, I always say this:  I take it match by match.  Every match is tough.  You can get injured, you can lose, you can get a walkover.  We never know.
I just want to be there on the court and try to play some good tennis.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT