NEXT GEN ATP FINALS
November 9, 2017
Andrey Rublev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RUBLEV/D. Shapovalov
4-1, 3-4, 4-3, 0-4, 4-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How does it feel to be in the semifinals after such a tough match?
ANDREY RUBLEV: Yeah, it's great feeling.  I mean, it was really tough matches in the group, and I'm really happy that I go through it and I'm in the semifinal.
Q. Did you expect these kind of fights in this tournament, since in the beginning somebody was thinking, oh, that could be just an exhibition or they will play for fun with these funny rules?  So are you surprised how things are developing, or did you more or less expect it?
ANDREY RUBLEV: I guess.  I mean, of course I expected and I was sure that everybody will play serious, but the thing is also everybody was expecting is more, like you say, exhibition, just for fun, to go there, to play with these rules.
But in the end, they make so big marketing, they make a lot of stuff work for this event, and in the end, now for everybody, for all of us players, it's really big to win this tournament even without points and with these rules.  So in the end now everybody is trying to win the tournament.
Q. You have played a couple of long matches with a few tiebreaks in there.  How do you think you're dealing with that pressure?
ANDREY RUBLEV: It's really tough, because with these rules, anyone can beat anyone.  You have to be focused 100% since the beginning, because even if you're winning, suddenly in one, two minutes you can start to lose easily.
So here everything is so fast.  Match goes really fast, and in the end, I guess I was just a little bit lucky twice times in the fifth set and the tiebreak.  That's it.
Q. Which of these rules would you like to see at an ATP event?
ANDREY RUBLEV: I mean, when they put some rules that doesn't change game of tennis, it's okay.  But I don't like when they try to change the game, because with these rules still four games, with no ad scoring, they changing the game.
With these rules, everyone can beat everyone, and in my opinion is a little bit not fair, because in my opinion the winner have to be the guy who is working harder than everybody.  Suddenly with these rules, the guy who is not doing right things, maybe he is not professional and he have easy chances to win, to compete with all the players and to win the tournaments, and I think this is not fair.
Q. Just no ad or also other rules, in your opinion?  What are the rules that are changing the game?  All of them?
ANDREY RUBLEV: The game rule, the sets, still four games, all that inside the game.  You understand what I mean?  Outside this, I don't know, net -- I mean, this Hawk-Eye system or clock time doesn't changing the game.  But all the rest with the rules exactly for the games, points, this is what is changing the game.
Q. About the money, all players normally say, because they made a lot of effort to become a tennis player, a pro, sacrifices and so on, they say they play mostly for fun, they like to play tennis, and if there was money or not it wouldn't change big, big, big.  Is it changing in this tournament to have so much money for this kind of event?  Do you think about it honestly?
ANDREY RUBLEV: Honestly, no, I think of course for the players it's also important, because here is the big money, especially for our age and of course everybody is motivated, because not many players could win this money just in one event.  And of course everybody is also fighting for this, and it's normal.
Q. So you think about it?  You say today I have to win because...
ANDREY RUBLEV: I don't know.  I don't know about other players.  For example, me, I was not thinking about it.  I mean, I know in general that here's big money if you win, especially the whole event.  But to think, oh, if I win this match, I'm going to get -- no, I was not thinking.  I don't know about other players, but me, no.
Q. I was going to ask you about playing Denis.  You two are the most dynamic players, a lot of the flair playing against each other.  Do you think this will develop into a great rivalry in the future?  Can you tell us about playing him?
ANDREY RUBLEV: Of course he's talented.  He have great serve, he have great shots, he have amazing volley.  I mean, for sure I think if he will continue to work, he will have big results.  I mean, I hope I will also continue to work and work harder, because there is lot of things that I have to improve, and we'll see next season.  That's all I can say.
Q. When did you start thinking that you could really make it, the professional career?  Because I remember you many years ago the Australian Open juniors.  Then you had some stop and things like this and problems.  Now you suddenly seems you're out of it.  When did you really realize?
ANDREY RUBLEV: To be honest, since I was little kid, I always was imagining myself on the big level, and I was never thinking opposite.  Even when I was making not really good results, I was still thinking that it's just time like this, for sure, something is going to happen.
I don't know.  I always see myself playing the big tournaments.  That's all I can say.
Q. Wondered how you see your game now after three matches in the tournament, heading into the semifinals.  Are you confident?
ANDREY RUBLEV: It's tough to say.  I don't know.  Of course I have confidence, but we'll see tomorrow if I'm really confident (smiling).
I'm going to try to do my best, and we'll see tomorrow.  That's all I can say.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT