U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2017
Andrey Rublev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RUBLEV/G. Dimitrov
7-5, 7-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How did you pick up the sense of playing better out there?  What did you learn?
ANDREY RUBLEV: You mean in general?
Q. Yes.
ANDREY RUBLEV: I don't know.  I think my style of the game is just to play aggressive, to try to play my rhythm because I have quite, I think in my opinion, quite well rhythm, that I can play, compete with many good guys.  I think this is one of the main things of my game.
Of course, to try to work hard, to try to improve all the things that I need to improve every day.  This is, like, the main things.  And I hope, yeah, I'm hope that I'm doing better and better.  In this way I have better results and ranking.
Q. You came back from a break down both in the first and second sets.  Can you explain to us what happened in those two sets, how you managed to come back?
ANDREY RUBLEV: No, I was just thinking to try to focus, just to try to fight, no matter even if I am losing with a break.  And in the end, I was little bit lucky.  I make a good few returns.  I hit maybe few points close to the line.  In the end I break.
I think I was just -- the main thing was because I was just keep pushing myself to don't try to, I don't know, show emotions, try to fight for every point, even if I'm with break down.  That's how it works.
Because some other games, for example, 30 minutes before, I was also trying to break, to break back, and in the end I couldn't make it.  This time I make it.  So you never know what it's going to happen, you know?
Q. People have been talking about you now for a few years, a future star.  It hasn't happened until this year.  How frustrating has that been?  What has been the big difference in the last few months?
ANDREY RUBLEV: First of all, before was juniors.  The way I was working, it was not the way to be pro tennis player.  Now last year I change everything completely.  I change the team completely.  In that moment starts the real work.
And now I improve in this year.  I improve much more than in all my tennis career.  This is it.
Q. What did you do after the victory, the last two hours?  What did you do the last couple of hours after the victory?
ANDREY RUBLEV: After the victory, nothing.  I went to recovery in the fitness.  I did bike.  Then I come to the locker room.  I did ice bath for 10 minutes and take shower, and then I went to see the physio to stretch me, and now I'm here.
Q. You said before how you were working wasn't the way of a pro tennis player.  What were you doing that you don't do now specifically?
ANDREY RUBLEV: I mean, nothing.  I was also working hard.  When I was junior, I was, yeah, working hard.  I was not doing some bad things or something.  It's just this work was not for pro.  Let's say you have a door and you can open the door, and I was trying to open this door from the wall, you know?  It was hitting the wall.  You can work so hard like this, but you going to only get worse and worse, you know?  That was the work.
It was not that I was not working or I was lazy.  It's just with this work, it's not going to come results.  You going to only be worst and worst.
Q. You are in the Race to Milan and the NextGen finals will be played with different rules.  What do you think about the rules?  Have you ever tried to play some sets with the new rules?
ANDREY RUBLEV: No, I didn't try these rules.  In my opinion, is still the same, like I say many times before.  But I hope they want to try something new.  I hope they going to try only here, and that's it.  So it's going to be more like exhibition matches.  It's going to be more to try something new.  I hope it's going to be one only first and last time.  I hope they not going to change these rules on the main tennis, you know?
Q. When you went to Umag, you said you had rituals, routines.  Sat in the same spot in the car...  What are your rituals here in New York?
ANDREY RUBLEV: Not really.  Is just we went the same restaurant for dinner before first match, and yesterday before this match.  So two days in a row I went in the same restaurant.  Tomorrow I'm not playing, so I can go somewhere else (smiling).
Q. Which one?
ANDREY RUBLEV: Last two days I was?
Q. Yes.
ANDREY RUBLEV: There was one Japanese restaurant.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT