ROLAND GARROS
October 7, 2020
Andrey Rublev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. TSITSIPAS/A. Rublev
7-5, 6-2, 6-3
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. A little bit of a shift in the first set through the match.  What do you think happened from the late stage of the first set into the rest of the match?
ANDREY RUBLEV:   I think I play well first set.  I had good chances.  In important moment when I need to serve for the match [sic], I didn't make it.  But it's part of the game.  He was there.  He bring all the balls back.  He return everything.
But is part of the sport.  Happen all the other days with me that everyone was serving for the set and somehow I was coming back.  Today happen with Stefanos that I was serving with him for the set, and he come back.  This is part of our sport.
Then after the first set, he started to play really, really well.  I don't know, he was playing really good today I think.  In my case, I was playing not bad.  Some little mistakes.  After the first set, he start to play really good.
Q. You've played a lot of tennis recently, won lots of matches.  You've only just finished today's match, but could you tell us what it's been like over the last four weeks, winning in Hamburg, and also your overall experience here at Roland Garros.
ANDREY RUBLEV:   I mean, I can be only grateful for the last couple of weeks.  All the matches that have been here, that I did one more quarterfinal, especially being almost out of the tournament in the first round.  I can be only grateful.
Nothing much to say.  There's so many things I need to work on, so many things that I need to improve.  Now is good time to do it and to be ready for the next season.
Q. You're interested in learning about how to see the court better.  You mentioned your coach has really good vision out there.  Do you think over quarantine, the time you spent with your coach was really a big help for you in terms of playing better on the clay, maybe having better shot selection, being a better player overall?
ANDREY RUBLEV:   I mean, in general we work every time together help me a lot, not only quarantine time, but preseason we did really well.  During quarantine we were working well.  I think I improve also in many things.
But still there is a lot, a lot, a lot that I need to improve.  I need to learn.  Now, I mean, it's time to do it.  Especially now after all the tournaments that I been playing, I can see what I'm missing, what I'm doing well, what I'm doing not well, what I'm doing wrong.  It's more easy now to work than during quarantine.
When you don't know how to compare which level is this, how is the other guys.  Now everything is clear and it's time to work.
Q. You've been living life in the fast lane.  Usually at the end of a tournament we ask a player if they are looking forward to a rest.  From what you are telling us, you just want to keep on working.  What would you like to do next?
ANDREY RUBLEV:   I mean, I was looking in the long-terms.  Of course, I mean, I'm still having tournaments.  This season is not over yet.  I'm still play couple more tournaments.  Then, of course, I will have rest.  Then we start to prepare for the next season.
This is the plan.
Q. How good was it for you to be able to get through a season in good health?  Are you going to make a push for the Race to London, try to get into the top eight?
ANDREY RUBLEV:   What was the first question?  If it was good to went in the season in good shape?
Q. Yes, no injuries.
ANDREY RUBLEV:   I mean, of course it's always great to be without injuries.  Always great, especially after a long, long break, to be able to show good results.
About Race, we'll see.  Of course, I would like to be there.  I would like to do everything.  In the end I cannot control this.  I will do my best.  I will try to fight on every tournament, then we'll see if I deserve it or not.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT