COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 8, 1993
Wally Masur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Wally, it has been an exhausting three weeks,  isn't it, for you?  

WALLY MASUR:  Yeah, one thing led to another, and I feel  like from the Johannesburg Doubles Masters until now,  one week has sort of ruined my preparation for the  next.  It is just two tough to do to play on two  different continents over three weeks, different  surfaces every week, to try and prepare and play your  best.  I mean, it hurt me for the Davis Cup, didn't get  selected, and I feel -- I was happy the way I played  today, but I feel like another - having had that match  under my belt, another few days practice, I felt like I  would have been playing my best tennis.  


Q.  Are you disappointed?  

WALLY MASUR:  Yeah, I am disappointed.  Yeah, I mean, I am  disappointed.  I am happy that I played well.  I think  few things in the third set were a little bit hard to  take.  Fortune, the match definitely went in his way -  in the end, especially -  but he went for it, and he  made the shots, so good luck with him.  


Q.  4-1 in the third set; do you think at that  stage you got him or is he --  

WALLY MASUR:  That is one thing about him, that you always-  I mean, to hold your serve against him every time you  go up and serve, you are really under threat.  He  doesn't give you that many free games, and at 4-1 it  was a situation where it was the last game I had to  serve with the old balls; I was aware of that, and I  just didn't make any first serves, and he jumped around  and hit some great returns, and, you know, it is a hard  thing to hang on to a service break against him for a  whole set.  He broke me, but I pretty much bounced back  from, that got back into it, but he definitely raised  his game from then on.  But I wasn't thinking I have  got him, you know; I was fighting with myself to  concentrate because I know how he can come back.  


Q.  Wally, talk about your whole year, it has  been a pretty terrific year for you.  Did you exceed  what you had planned and what do you think of next year  as well?  

WALLY MASUR:  Well, we did - Gavin, I think he sets my  goals.  I don't really set my goals.  He is the one  with the goals, but we did pretty much everything that he aimed to do.  I got my ranking inside the top 20.  We tried to focus on the Grand Slams, and I ended up  getting here, which was a good result also.  I mean, it was my best year-to-date, and  fortunately it was a good ten months; it wasn't a good  year, my last two months were sort of - almost been a  waste of time in a way, just the way things have gone,  preparation, the injury, and one thing led to another.  The last two months I haven't really played that well,  although I was happy with the way I hit the ball  today.  I think my year sort of ended after the Davis  Cup against India, I haven't really done much since  then.  So it was a good ten months.  It wasn't a good  year.  


Q.  Wally, just following up from that, when you  are planning for next year, you obviously take those  two months into consideration, you have to learn from  that I guess, and what do you do to not make those  mistakes again?  

WALLY MASUR:  One thing that I will be doing, I played with  a regular partner for the last two years Mike Kratzmann  and so it is tough when you are playing 25 singles and  22 or 23 doubles events every year, so I am going to  try and just play with various partners; not with the  goal of making the doubles finals, so I'd like to play with some different people, John Fitzgerald and Pat  Cash, just some guys that it will be fun to play with,  without the pressure of-- the added pressure of having  to sort of be there for a doubles event every week.  If  I feel like I have got a lot of tennis, take days off;  if I need the matches, I will try and play doubles.  That is one way in which I can look at next year.  


Q.  How do you see Pat Cash's comeback?  

WALLY MASUR:  When or how?  


Q.  How do you see his comeback?  

WALLY MASUR:  Well, I am sure that he can-- if he just gets  his head right, I am sure that he can come back.  I  think he is making a good attempt.  I hear-- just from  what I hear, he is practicing hard; he is actually  playing an event this week, a Challenger doubles event  in Adelaide, and you know, I think he has realized that  tennis is something that he has a great talent for, and  I think he is going to make a good go of it this time.  


Q.  Thank you.     

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT