THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 25, 2014
Pedro Linhart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Another satisfying day out on the links.  
PEDRO LINHART:   Yeah.   It was a bit more up and down today, but overall it's a good score.   This is a good test of golf, so I'm happy.  
   
 Q.   Well, the ups outweighed the downs and you're in a lovely position.  
PEDRO LINHART:   Yeah, yeah.   Hope to stay there at least over the weekend.  
   
 Q.   What was the story?   What actually happened out there?   What did you do well?   What were the highlights?  
PEDRO LINHART:   Well, I made a great birdie on 2, which got me going, and then I made a stupid bogey on 4, but I came back with birdie on 5 and 6.   
Then I made a stupid bogey on 7, so it was that kind of round, but then I was able to scramble my way back in and hit a couple of shots and made birdie.   So lucky at the 18th to find my drive.   It went right.   That won't happen again.  
   
 Q.   I hope not.   If you look at leaderboards, if you look at the scoring, yours is one of those very few where you've actually got two good rounds together, which must be so satisfying.  
PEDRO LINHART:   Well, I've managed to keep my bad shots in play, so I think that's why I haven't made any big numbers on any one hole.  
   
 Q.   I've got to ask what your thoughts were when you started.   I appreciate that we're only halfway for you, but knowing that Bernhard Langer was already 11‑under before you even set out really.  
PEDRO LINHART:   I only saw that when I was halfway through the golf course.   I expect Langer to shoot low.   He shot 63 on with a bilateral ball on a windy day.   62 was it?   Way back then.   He's hitting long irons or woods into those par‑4s.   No wonder he's doing so well.  
   
 Q.   Well, he's obviously still got it, but does it change your approach?   Do you feel like you're playing a second tournament?  
PEDRO LINHART:   No, no.   I just hit every shot the best I can.   That's about it.   
   
 Q.   What have we got to do for the weekend?   We've gotta get you a new bag with your name actually stitched on it and a new hat or something?  
PEDRO LINHART:   Well, anybody interested in me wearing their logo, I'm talking seriously now.   I'm cheap.   It's a bargain.   I have no sponsor.  
   
 Q.   And you're going to get plenty of air time because you're in lovely position.  
PEDRO LINHART:   Great.   Good.   Maybe somebody will call up.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT