THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 24, 2014
Pedro Linhart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Lovely conditions? 
PEDRO LINHART:   Well, they were lovely conditions, but we started out with wind and finished with wind, and I mean, just a little breeze on this golf course, it makes it a good test of golf.

Q.   And I think when you look at that leaderboard and see your name right up there and you're one of the very few in red figures makes it even better?
PEDRO LINHART:   Oh, yeah, it's good to see my name up there, playing such a good golf course and such a good tournament.   It was good to be up there.

Q.   Tell me how well you played and what you did right and what you got a way with?
PEDRO LINHART:   Well, I think I missed one tee shot, so I mean like all good links courses, you've got to put the ball in play.   Then I had a good‑‑ couple of good up‑and‑downs at the beginning and that got me going.   So felt quite good out there.

Q.   Even though we are standing here and it's incredible, that wind is tricky, isn't it? 
PEDRO LINHART:   It's tricky.   The greens are hard.   You get a tee shot downwind with these fairways, it's 3‑iron 290, 280, and very difficult to judge.   Plus you've got to hit good shots all the time.   There's a lot of trouble waiting for you out there.

Q.   Put this into context; how well have you been playing?
PEDRO LINHART:   I've been playing well.   I made the last cut on The European Tour when I was 47 and I was coaching a lot, and it was good to turn 50.   I think my game has gotten better and better.   So I hope to have good results this year. 

Q.   Some people, some players say that they kind of tread water from 46 through to 50, try to keep the game going and have another kick?
PEDRO LINHART:   I'm going to keep turning 51 for a few years now. 

Q.   Do you like being out and competing? 
PEDRO LINHART:   Oh, yeah, I wish we had more events.   The thing is, I finished last year really well in Mauritius, finishing fourth, and then I have a five‑month layoff.   There's no tournaments.   If we had a busier schedule, it would be even better.   As long as I can keep playing golf, I love the game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT