NEXT GEN ATP FINALS
November 8, 2017
Gianluigi Quinzi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. SHAPOVALOV/G. Quinzi
4-1, 4-1, 3-4, 4-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How has this experience been for you overall?
GIANLUIGI QUINZI: It was unbelievable experience for me, because I'm playing with the top guys my age and a little bit younger.  Yesterday I play unbelievable match with Andrey.  I know him since a couple of years.
So I feel that I'm in this level, but of course important points and sometimes physically is not enough, because I can play good level some sets, but full games and, like, today, like two sets, like first two sets was tough.  I mean, I'm a little bit tired and cramping, so I'm not -- physically and mentally I'm a little bit down.
Q. How do you want to use this opportunity for your career?  How do you want to use this opportunity to play against these guys?
GIANLUIGI QUINZI: How what?  No, it's a good experience, for sure, because since some years I don't play with these guys.  For me, after the injured, after two months of injured, I say to my coach I want to compete with these guys.
Of course, first I should pass the Italian quallies, but after, when I pass the Italian quallies, I was confident that I was doing good, so I went to the match and stay confident.  And after, of course, it's tough, because everybody play good.
But I think in a couple of years maybe I can be in these levels.  I'm confident.
Q. We could see you playing out there, and you can match them, like you said, for a set.  What is it you need to do to make sure that you can stay with these guys for the whole match?  Is it mental or physical or both?
GIANLUIGI QUINZI: Mentally, physically, you have to play some more level, on this level, for sure.  They play all the year this level.  Me, I'm playing challengers, and it's a big difference, for sure.
These guys are top 50, so they play for sure all the time Masters Series 1000 level.  It's so much big difference.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT