WIMBLEDON
July 7, 2013
Gianluigi Quinzi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 G. QUINZI/H. Chung
  7‑5, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You seem very excited.   You've been close.   You must be excited.   
GIANLUIGI QUINZI:   Yeah, I'm very excited.  
   
 Q.   Talk a little bit about the match.   
GIANLUIGI QUINZI:   Before the match I was a lot of tight because I knew that I was playing in the big court my first time.   So I was a lot of tight, but my coach said to me before the match, Don't look around.   Look only the court.   Look the Korean guy.   Think what we have to play.   
And I go to the court.   I was a little bit tight the first two games.   But after I play my game and I win the tournament.   I can't believe that I win.   I'm so happy.   (Smiling.)   
   
 Q.   It was a pretty close match.   What do you think the difference was?  
GIANLUIGI QUINZI:   Play very, very good the important points.   The first two game I play very good.   I was aggressive.   I think he was a lot of tight because he did too many double‑faults for two games.   
But after I was tight again, me.   My serve was not very good in the first set.   5‑3 him, I break him; three winner from my backhand.   
So at 5‑4 I play three aces.   5‑All I break again, 7‑5.   I was a lot of confident for the second set.   
Second set, until 6‑All there was no break.   The tiebreak was unbelievable.   I play my best tennis in the tiebreaker.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk a little bit about how physically demanding the match was, because the weather was very hot and a lot of the rallies were long.   It was a very high standard.   Did you find it tough to compete out there?  
GIANLUIGI QUINZI:   Yeah, I was pretty good the first game.   The first set I was too tired because we play like 20, 25 shot in a row.   So was a lot of tension.   
And with the tight, you are too tired.   But after I get some recovery stuffs so I was better.   
But I play good with my first serve the second set, so I didn't play too much.   Like I say before, I play good the important points so that I win the match.   
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on grass?   Obviously you didn't play growing up on grass court.   
GIANLUIGI QUINZI:   Yeah, grass court I feel good last year.   I play unbelievable tennis last year.   
But this year, after Roehampton, after the quarterfinal that I lost in Roehampton, I thought that I play unbelievable tennis.   He play unbelievable, too.   
But I was confident.   I didn't think I have to do semifinal again.   So I went to the court the first round, and after the first round that I win, I tell to my coach, Maybe I'm going to win this tournament.   And then I win.  
   
 Q.   Your family seemed pretty excited there.   
GIANLUIGI QUINZI:   I didn't talk to the family yet.   Maybe I'm going to talk later or after.   I don't know.  
   
 Q.   You said all through the week you felt you were mentally ready to win here.   How did you feel this morning?  
GIANLUIGI QUINZI:   Yesterday I didn't sleep at all.   I was a lot of tight.   11:00, 11:30 I went to sleep.   I was thinking on the match until 12:00.   
But after I was tight.   I was not 100% today because I didn't sleep well.   But after, it's a match.   I went to the court, I play my game, and I play unbelievable tennis and I win.   
   
 Q.   Did you know much about your opponent in terms of like a past history?  
GIANLUIGI QUINZI:   Yeah, he's IMG player.   I don't know if until now he's IMG player.   He's one of my best friends.   I know him pretty well.   He's a great guy.   I practice with him all the time when I was IMG.   
I play him two years ago in Bonfiglio and he was a really good player.   He improve a lot in these two years.   
In grass court, today was unbelievable rallies we play.   He was better at the back.   I play good important point.   He played not good the important point.   That's why I win the match.   But in the back, he was better.   
So I play with him in Bonfiglio two years ago.   6‑1, 7‑5 I win the match.   But today was impressive for me.  
   
 Q.   Are you looking forward to the ball?  
GIANLUIGI QUINZI:   Of course.   I'm going over there, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Do you have somewhere special to put the trophy at home?  
GIANLUIGI QUINZI:   Somewhere special?   I don't know, maybe in my windows.   I don't know.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT