LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 10, 2010
Meena Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Meena, 6-under round today. Great round. Tell us about it. 
 MEENA LEE: (Through translation.) Because of the rain, the green was very soft. It was easier to play. My iron shots all day was working pretty well overall.

 Q. Nice round, I think 66 today. For this year, is that your best, low round this year? 
 MEENA LEE: Yes. 

 Q. You had some 65s, a few 65s. 
 MEENA LEE: Uh-huh. 

 Q. When you came out here this morning, you played in an early group. The greens are good, everything, conditions are good. After the first two birdies, did you feel confident, like, I can shoot a low number today? 
 MEENA LEE: (Through translation.) Definitely after the first two birdies I gained a lot of confidence in my game. I figured that I should be able to shoot a pretty low score.

 Q. Of the birdies you had today, any one or two that stand out in? Any long putts you made or any ones that were just really good? 
 MEENA LEE: (Through translation.) Not necessarily. I don't have anything that's memorable, because my shots were working very well today and most of my putts were within the six to nine feet. 

 Q. On your last hole, which is No. 9, the shot you hit in, did you misjudge yardage or anything? What happened there? You were on the back of the green. 
 MEENA LEE: (Through Translation.) I misjudged this a little bit. It was more left than what I thought it was, so it bounced off and, you know, misjudged. 

 Q. Coming here this week, the tour has been off for a few weeks. This will start five weeks in a row of tournaments. What have you done the last couple of weeks to kind of keep your game sharp? Have you just practiced or played in any other events the last couple of weeks? 
 MEENA LEE: (Through translation.) Pretty routine. After the Sybase Championship I did play at the U.S. Open course to practice. 
 After that, went back home to Orlando and just had routine practices. 

 Q. Talking again about this week starting five weeks in a row where there are tournaments, including two majors coming up - the LPGA and the Women's Open - leading into the majors, do you tell yourself, I really need to play well to get my confidence going for the LPGA Championship? The next two weeks, are they pretty important to you? 
 MEENA LEE: (Through translation.) As you pointed out, it's a five-week stretch with two majors. The majors are always important. 
 What I'm focusing on right now is to get my strength up and keep my stamina consistent throughout these five weeks. That's probably my main focus at the moment.

 Q. You said getting your strength up. More than usual, or had you been under the weather, sick, or anything? When you say get your strength up, what do you mean exactly? 
 MEENA LEE: (Through translation.) Well, I'm not doing anything specifically different. I wouldn't call this an injury, but my shoulder tightens up a little bit, my right shoulder. 
 So I'm focusing a lot more on doing a lot of stretching to make sure that it stays loose. Really, I'm not doing anything different especially. 

 Q. Tomorrow you'll have, I guess, obviously probably an afternoon tee time tomorrow. You figure it might be just a little more challenging with the afternoon tee times? Maybe the conditions won't be quite as perfect as they were today? 
 MEENA LEE: (Through translation.) The green was wet and soft this morning, and obviously I don't anticipate that to be the case tomorrow afternoon. 
 And I actually think that's gonna work to my advantage in terms of driving distance. So I'm not worried about it.

 Q. Something I forget to ask you about your round. Very good round, 66. I notice I think you only birdied one of the par-5s. Were there a couple of par-5s where you had really good birdie chances that maybe slipped away a little bit? 
 MEENA LEE: (Through translation.) I think I had a birdie chance on almost ever par-5, I just didn't convert them today. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT