FIELDS OPEN IN HAWAII
February 21, 2007
Meena Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PAM WARNER:  Meena, thank you for joining us today.  Last year you won the inaugural Fields Open on a three-hole playoff.  Just talk about being back here, defending your title to start.   
 MEENA LEE:  It's always good to be back and defend a title.  I'm happy to be here.  But because of defending the title, I'm a little nervous but I'll do my best.   
 PAM WARNER:  You just had a chance to go out and play in the Pro-Am on the course.  Can you talk about the course conditions?   
 MEENA LEE:  The golf course condition-wise, I think last year was a little bit better than this year.  We had some rain this morning, so the course is playing a little bit slow.  And then we're in Hawaii so obviously there's a lot of wind, so the wind is going to make it play hard.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about your play last week and maybe what you've been working on early this season?   
 MEENA LEE:  Last week, I believe that everything worked okay as far as my game goes.   
 But I just had a bad hole on No. 7, and that's why I missed the cut.  But game-wise, it's working out right now.   
  
  Q.  How would you rate your last year compared to your strong rookie season in 2005?  Were you disappointed at all?  I know you made more cuts last year, but were you disappointed at all not finishing in the top?   
 MEENA LEE:  I had a good year my rookie year, but last year was not a bad season.  I had a good season -- I believe that last year's season was good, and all of the work that I did paid off in 2006.   
 But it helped me really a lot to getting adjusted on the LPGA in 2006.  I learned more in 2006 than I did in my rookie year, so I wouldn't call it a bad season.   
  
  Q.  So you feel more comfortable this year and more -- you know the courses?   
 MEENA LEE:  Yes.   
  
  Q.  How much confidence do you have coming into an event that you've won before?   
 MEENA LEE:  Well, I have confidence that I can play better here.  It's just that, you know, defending a title always is not about confidence, there's always pressure on defending.  So that's another way to look at it.  I'm confident, but in a way that I'm -- I feel a little bit more pressure.   
  
  Q.  Do you have any goals as far as getting back into the Top-10 on the Money List?   
 MEENA LEE:  Of course I want to win as many tournaments as I want, but my total main goal will be being in the Top-10 of the Money List at the end of 2007.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT