CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2006
Meena Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Meena, thank you for coming in.  You were bogey free today, 6 under par.  Just talk about your round today.  Great round.
MEENA LEE:  I had a very good day today with the irons.  My irons were working good.  It was really hard birdie putts, but because of my irons I was able to put the ball nearby the pins, and I was able to make a lot of birdies.
Q.  I'm just wondering how you feel about playing well enough today to put yourself in position to have a chance to defend your title in Canada.
MEENA LEE:  Obviously I won the tournament last year, and obviously I want to defend my title here at the Canadian Open, but winning doesn't just come because I want it to.  Obviously I have to play one more good round of golf tomorrow and then we'll have to see what happens tomorrow.
Q.  Angela had it to 14 under at one point.  Did you kind of think that you had to get going a little bit, a different mindset, aggressive?
MEENA LEE:  Well, starting today there was a lot of gap between Angela and myself, so I wasn't really paying attention to the score, how she was playing and how I was playing.  So I just played my game out there today.
Q.  You're going to be playing in the last group tomorrow, may be playing in the last group tomorrow.  What will be your strategy to playing against Angela?
MEENA LEE:  If I play with Angela Stanford tomorrow, I'm going to try to obviously close the gap between her score and my score.  But I might be a little bit aggressive tomorrow, but I'll also just focus on my game, as well as she will be focusing on her game, as well.  That way we're not thinking about winning but we'll have to put up good competition.
Q.  Going into the last round, do you feel more comfortable    like comparing this year and last year, your comfort with the golf course going into the final round.  Is it any different, first the course and then maybe mentally?
MEENA LEE:  Last year I wasn't in the last group.  I was catching up to the leaders and then other players were in front of me.  Obviously it was my first win, so I was a little nervous and uncomfortable playing my game to catch up.  But now I have two wins under my title, and then defending my title, so I think I'm a little more comfortable than last year and getting better.
THE MODERATOR:  Thank you, Meena.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT