WEGMANS LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2014
Meena Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Take us through your round.   You said a very solid day.   You felt good about your putting?  
MEENA LEE:   Yeah.   It was a little bit of wind out there this morning, but my putting was really good today, it was 25.   So I was really happy to play.  
   
 Q.   Is that something you've been working on, your putting?  
MEENA LEE:   No.   It's the same thing, but just par putts.   
   
 Q.   Were you surprised how fast the greens were considering how much rain has come down, because they said the greens were fast.   
MEENA LEE:   Yes.   The greens are very soft, but still it's fast, even if it's downhill putt, it's still fast.  
   
 Q.   And how about just being tied at the top of the leaderboard after the first round of a major?   It's gotta be‑‑ you're in good position.   
MEENA LEE:   Yes.   It's very exciting, and then, well, it's just first day, so I'll do my best tomorrow and weekend.   
   
 Q.   Have you had good starts to tournaments, either recently or maybe earlier?   I mean kind of take us through your last several weeks and how you've been playing leading up to this.   
MEENA LEE:   Well, I've been playing really good.   I got second in Dallas, so looking really good this season.   
   
 Q.   Bunch of Top 10s, but you missed the cut last week?  
MEENA LEE:   Last week, yes.  
   
 Q.   Any type of regrouping?   Did you have any mental regroup?  
MEENA LEE:   Yeah, it's a major tournament this week, so I got more like more relaxed.  
   
 Q.   Came in thinking let's just try to relax coming into this week?  
MEENA LEE:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   What do you like about this golf course?  
MEENA LEE:   I like this golf course.   It's in really good shape.   The greens perfect, fairways good.   I mean the other girls really liked this golf course.   So yeah, I like it too.  
   
 Q.   We talked about it being so long, but you're not one of the longer hitters off the tee.   What was your game plan coming into this week?  
MEENA LEE:   A couple of par‑5s a little short, so I‑‑ second shot almost reach the green, so that's why I made a couple of birdies on par‑5s.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT