LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 28, 2006
Meena Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 MEENA LEE:  Since what I have done today and how I played today, the one thing I'm not happy obviously that I didn't win.   
  
 MEENA LEE:  Okay.   
  
 MEENA LEE:  Driver, 3-wood, two-putt.   
  
 MEENA LEE:  Driver, 5-wood.   
  
 MEENA LEE:  6-iron.   
  
 MEENA LEE:  Driver, 7-iron.   
  
 MEENA LEE:  5-iron.   
  
 MEENA LEE:  Driver on 7, 56 wedge.  It was short.  It wasn't on the green.  It was short of the green.  One putt.   
  
 MEENA LEE:  5-wood, one putt.   
  
 MEENA LEE:  8-iron.   
  
 MEENA LEE:  Driver, pitching wedge.  60, 2-putt.   
 18, driver, right side of fairway.  Driver, before the green.  56, 2-putt.   
  
  Q.  The last play-off hole, how much of your finish do you think was nerves?  It was a close race all the way in, you made a great save at the previous hole.  Did nerves get you at the end there?   
 MEENA LEE:  For a couple of holes past I've having the same distance for the last few holes.  And I've been kind of hitting short.  So I was trying to hit it a little bit longer than usual.  And then the pin was on the top of the hill, and when I hit it it went over, and it was kind of hard to approach the shot also.   
  Q.  It looked like the play-off might be over after the third play-off hole when your first shot went into the trees.  Do you feel like you got a second chance after that hole?   
 MEENA LEE:  I never thought about winning.  I just didn't think of that at all.   
  
 MEENA LEE:  I'm satisfied with how I played today.  It's just that I think I made one big mistake on the play-off.   
  Q.  Can you explain the U.S. Open application problem?  What happened and what happened after?   
 MEENA LEE:  She doesn't really want to talk about it right now.   
  Q.  Before today's round, did you realistically think you had a chance?   
 MEENA LEE:  I thought about if there's chances coming, then I'll expect to get that chance.  I was never trying to win, but if the chance was there, I wasn't going to let the chance go.   
  Q.  Did she notice when Jeong Jang made a double bogey on the hole previous?  It might be Han not Jeong Jang.   
 MEENA LEE:  I didn't notice for the first nine holes because there was no scoreboard out there.  On the 13th hole I saw the scoreboard and I knew I was playing better, and then I saw the scoreboard and then I was on the top.  And that was the first time.  On the 12th green.   
  Q.  Were you surprised?   
 MEENA LEE:  I was a little surprised.  I thought there were a lot of players that could have got more birdies.   
  Q.  How much golf has she played with Han?   
 MEENA LEE:  We've practiced last week on the practice rounds and we've been playing together a lot on the practice rounds.   
  Q.  Do you consider her a friend?   
 MEENA LEE:  Not friends.  But sister.  It's like a big brother, big sister, that thing.  It's a Korean thing that big sister is looking out for little sister.   
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 MEENA LEE:  Because I was the one who was lead, I kind of figured that somebody might be coming after you.   
  Q.  You knew that somebody was going to match your score and you were going to be in a play-off.  Are you glad that it was your sister?   
 MEENA LEE:  Because it's a game of the golf, obviously it's not okay to -- you're playing against each other.  There is no player that I can be comfortable with every time I play golf.  With every player I'm going to try to be aggressive.  I'm not going to go easy.   
  Q.  You haven't lost any play-offs ever since amateur status, right?   
 MEENA LEE:  Yes.   
  Q.  How many play-offs have you been in?   
 MEENA LEE:  Maybe like six play-offs.   
  Q.  How nice is it to see the success that so many South Korean players have had here.  When you had the lead going into today and then the play-off with Hee-Won Han?   
 MEENA LEE:  That's a hard question.  I don't know.  I can't say a lot of things about how the players play.  I think that Korean players, they have the experience in the LPGA before they come to the LPGA and they come in after they have some experience at winning under their belt.  So that when they come to the U.S. and play in the LPGA compared to other rookies or players who are just coming out, they don't have experience like Korean players do.   
  Q.  What's it like finishing off your round and waiting to see how other players finish before you know your fate?   
 MEENA LEE:  Of course it would be a good thing to have an easy win, but if you wait and you go in a play-off and play hard and you win, it would be better.  And I think there is a difference between losing by a stroke before the play-off than losing in the play-off.   
  Q.  How do you feel coming so close here two years in a row.  Last year you came to the last hole and had a chance and this year same thing.   
 MEENA LEE:  I just don't have the good feeling.  I'm not happy right now because I just had it, and then I just couldn't get it.  And that's why obviously I'm frustrated.   
  Q.  Have you ever been involved in another tournament that's had so many changes and so many back and forth?  Has she ever been involved with another attorney where there's been so many green changes?   
 MEENA LEE:  Yes.   
  Q.  You mentioned that you were upset about making one major mistake on the last hole.  What would you say that was?   
 MEENA LEE:  The second shot.  Thank you.   
  
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT