HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 3, 2005
Meena Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  That was a great match, you guys were back and forth all day, you were 3 down at one point and five back to get to 1 down and it just ended on 18.  It was fun to watch.  Can you just tell us; you played it, so can you tell us a little bit about it?
MEENA LEE:  After I went 3 down I just told myself, "Let me try to get back one hole at a time," so I kept repeating that to myself over and over.
Q.  Can you talk about the three putts that you made in a row?  You seemed very confident overall.
MEENA LEE:  Because I was 3 down, I thought I had nothing to lose, so I tried to play aggressively on every hole.  I was hoping that if I do that, eventually I might turn the tide of the match.
Q.  You looked confident over all of your putts?  Did you feel that they would all go in?
MEENA LEE:  No, I wasn't confident, but I also knew that if those putts didn't go in, the match would be over.  In match play you have to make putts.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Is this correct that this is the first time you've played match play?
MEENA LEE:  Yes.
Q.  Are you disappointed at all?
MEENA LEE:  Because I was so close to winning, yes, I am disappointed.
Q.  Who was the most difficult player during the tournament?
MEENA LEE:  The first match I played Hee Won Han was very difficult.  And of course, the final match today was very difficult, as well.
Q.  Where are you in terms of your career, obviously this is a very young career, this achievement today.
MEENA LEE:  There's a lot more LPGA tournaments that we have to play, and because of this tournament, because I came so close to winning, I thought I gained a lot of confidence.
Q.  Could you comment on how Marisa played today?
MEENA LEE:  Not sure what the exact phrase would be, but she was very down to earth, played one shot at a time and her putting was outstanding.
Q.  What where are your expectations coming to the tournament?  What were you striving for?  What were your goals?
MEENA LEE:  Before I started playing my first match, my goal coming to the tournament was just get through Friday, and I did okay.
Q.  Did you find it at all amazing that the final was the 47th seed and the 60th seed?
MEENA LEE:  Because this is a match play tournament versus a stroke play tournament, it really doesn't matter the rankings in terms of the results.  For example, Candie Kung beat Annika, so you never know what's going to happen in match play.
Q.  This is the second time you are runner up, which game is more disappointing, not winning as the champion?
MEENA LEE:  At this tournament.
Q.  The putt you conceded on hole No. 9,  is that something in retrospect you might not have done?
MEENA LEE:  I believe I was behind four shots at the time and Marisa had a birdie putt coming up.  I just felt that I had lost the hole.  I just gave up on the hole.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT