WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 1, 2014
Meena Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Quite the front nine for you, no pars but started off with the eagle.   Just talk about that front nine and take us through that. 
MEENA LEE:   Okay.   Well, I made eagle, so started very good.   And then my putting was really good.   Inside 15 feet for par, almost always made it.   I had a lot of birdies today. 

Q.   How crazy of a round was it for you?   Was it a pretty interesting day for you? 
MEENA LEE:   I mean, well, a little bit because my irons was almost inside 15 feet every hole.   Everything, the shot was good and the putting is working, so everything is on my side on the front nine. 

Q.   What about the string of birdies on the back nine?   How long were those putts on those three?
MEENA LEE:   The par‑5 is short, so most of the girls hit the second shot on the green.   I made two of the par‑5 birdies.   My putting was really good the back nine, too.   I had confidence with my putting today, so I made a lot of birdies.

Q.   Are you playing well, or does this course just fit your eye?
MEENA LEE:   Both.   I'm playing well, too, and the course is really good.   The greens are much better than the practice rounds, good green speeds, so very good.

Q.   Did you make any changes in terms of putting? 
MEENA LEE:   No, all the same. 

Q.   When you leave a round like this, are you happy or do you go back and go, I could have done better? 
MEENA LEE:   I'm happy.   I'm happy to be done with the second round.   I'm really happy.   There's two more days, so yeah, I will do my best. 

Q.   Did the wind play a factor at all today?
MEENA LEE:   I mean, this morning not really.   Yesterday the afternoon a little bit windy, but this morning it was perfect weather for the morning tee time, yeah.

Q.   In your later holes the wind didn't play any factor at all?
MEENA LEE:   A little bit, yes.

Q.   Picked up a little bit?
MEENA LEE:   Yeah. 

Q.   How much do you like being in this position to have a chance?   I know you'd like to win again; it's been a while.   How much do you like being in the position you're in going into the weekend? 
MEENA LEE:   How much?   Really good, yeah.   Yeah, really good. 

Q.   Is that something you've missed?   What's been holding you back do you think from going low?   This is your best round by a lot of strokes this year.   What's been your struggles recently?   Is it a few things or just one?   Has it been ball‑striking, off the tee? 
MEENA LEE:   Yeah, I mean, this week is better than the last couple weeks.   The irons are really good, much better. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT