PURE SILK-BAHAMAS LPGA CLASSIC
January 23, 2014
Meena Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What was working well for you out there today?
MEENA LEE:   I mean, I was putting very well today, and then No.14, I made eagle, so everything was working together.

Q.   First event of the season, what is it like to get off to such a good start?   Were you feeling good about your game in the off‑season?
MEENA LEE:   Well, I mean, I had a wintertime working hard, so that's why I have confidence more than last year.   That's why I feel very good and happy to play in the first tournament. 

Q.   Did the off‑season, because this is the first time the LPGA has started in January since 2001, did the off‑season seem a lot shorter?
MEENA LEE:   Yeah, feel like very short, just a few weeks practice and then start.   But happy to start the first tournament. 

Q.   How did you spend your off‑season?   Were you in Korea for most of the time?
MEENA LEE:   After CME I stayed in Korea for four weeks and then went back to Orlando December 26th and then‑‑

Q.   Start practicing?
MEENA LEE:   Yeah.

Q.   Anything that you worked on over that time, anything specific in your swing?
MEENA LEE:   Well, everything is the same in the last year, 2013, but more focus on the putting and short game.   Working very hard in the winter season, so I had a good round today, so yeah. 

Q.   What are the keys on this golf course?   We're playing all 18 holes this year, which that's a good thing. 
MEENA LEE:   Depends on wind.   I think it depends on weather.   Today the weather was very nice, but I think the golf course is very good.   It's in good condition.   I think everything depends on weather, but the course is very nice.   I think there will be good scores the next three days.

Q.   How does it feel returning here to the Bahamas to play in the golf tournament?
MEENA LEE:   I'm very happy to play here.   I played last year, and it was good, but too much rain last year.   This year just so nice weather.   Everything is perfect, and the conditions are very nice. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT