NBA DRAFT 2016
June 23, 2016
Henry Ellenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Henry, if you could give an opening statement, start out with feelings about the day.   
HENRY ELLENSON: This is a great day.  I'm just real excited to be part of Detroit.  This is something really special to me and my family, and I can't wait to get going.   
 Q.  Henry, Stan Van Gundy, are you ready?  
HENRY ELLENSON: I am.  I'm going to be part of that organization.  I wasn't able to meet with him or go on a visit there, and so I'm not quite sure I'll know everyone there, but I know they're a really talented young team who's ready to get in the Playoffs.   
 Q.  Talk about the roster a little bit.  You've got Andre Drummond, Reggie Jackson, Tobias Harris, good young core there.  How do you fit in?  
HENRY ELLENSON: I think I can fit in and be a stretch 4 for them.  I think Andre Drummond down low is really effective and I play with centers.  So I think I can be a guy who adds a whole 'nother side of versatility there being able to make plays in the 4 spot.   
 Q.  What was the feeling like among you and your family as you were waiting for that pick?  
HENRY ELLENSON: Yeah, you know, it is long waiting.  I wasn't quite sure this time -- I'm like, man, am I even going to get picked?  Just dying sitting there.  But just finally getting picked, just emotions just ran through me, just all this hard work all the time.  My family sacrificed, and now hearing my name called, it meant a whole lot.   
 Q.  Was there anybody among your family who in particular helped you through this night and keep your emotions in check?  
HENRY ELLENSON: I'd say my whole family for sure.  Everyone knows, me and my family are huge, real close, and so everyone was just giving me a lot of positives and just encouraged me the whole night because I was getting a little uneasy there.  But just kept giving me words of wisdom, and when that pick was called, I know they were just as excited as I was.   
 Q.  Is it more so discouraging to wait to hear your name called or more exciting when you finally do hear your name called?  
HENRY ELLENSON: It's more exciting.  You know, I was like, right away, I was probably thinking the other way, but since I heard my name called, it just makes the whole night great.  It's something I've waited my whole life now, and now I have a chance.  I just can't wait to play in the Summer League.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT