ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 6, 2020
Joanne P. McCallie
Haley Gorecki
Leaonna Odom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Boston College - 84, Duke - 77   
THE MODERATOR: We're joined now by Duke head coach Joanne P. McCallie, and joined by student-athletes, Haley Gorecki and Leaonna Odom. Coach?   
JOANNE P. MCCALLIE: Obviously an exciting game, a great tournament game, very offensive minded, perhaps a little bit too offensive minded relative to stops we need to do get at critical points. I'm really, really proud of our team being down 9 or 10, I'm not sure, but coming all the way back and doing what we did to go up 7 was great. But you gotta play a full forty minutes and there were plays to finish and rebounds to get and the ball to take care of. So we didn't finish down the stretch.   
There were some great lessons for us, preparing for the future, the Tournament and the whole thing there and learning about time and score. Execution. We've had some of that pretty good, but today we didn't execute it fully. Give credit to Boston College. They had some foul trouble as well, so obviously we're excited for them to do well and continue on. It was a great basketball game, disappointing for us, no doubt. But I think some valuable lessons for us moving forward.   
 Q.  Haley, you're up 77-70 against a team that played last night and by all rights should have been somewhat fatigued. What was Duke not able to do to close them out?  
HALEY GORECKI: Just stopped at the end and what Coach just said, take care of the ball, not much else to say, really, we gotta get stops down the stretch.   
 Q.  Leaonna, throughout the night you showed no hesitation with the pull-up jumpers and it ended up being helpful for your team down the stretch. Can you talk about that approach heading into the game?  
LEAONNA ODOM: I don't think any of that matters, we didn't get any defensive stops therefore we are not continuing on to the next game.   
 Q.  Assuming you make the NCAA tournament, what are the keys to having a better outcome next game?  
JOANNE P. MCCALLIE: I'll take that. We should unequivocally make the NCAA tournament. Our RPI is very high. You can check that. Our strength of schedule as well. There is no question whether that is going to happen or not, that is going to happen.   
These women have been pretty amazing to get from 10th to 3rd and to do what we have done in the season, especially the finish.   
It's hurting now because we definitely want to move forward and do more in this tournament, but that's not -- there is no question to that. The question is how we get ready. Again, time and score, we will be watching this film tomorrow, getting a good feel for it, understanding the things we could have done differently.   
 Q.  Coach P., at one point I think Boston College was around 70% from three. Talk about what they were doing on their end that was making it so difficult to guard?  
JOANNE P. MCCALLIE: It was a tough combination. Their paint points were more significant even than their three-point shooting. They had a good outside game. We needed to do a better job of ball pressure and taking away passing angles. You let any team score 84 points you're leaving it to chance at that point. We scored plenty of points, 77 was enough. We had goals to hold them below 84. So it's a good lesson about where our focus needs to be and that needs to be on the team side of defense and rebounding and what we're going to see are the put-backs that they got down the stretch that were so critical and some of the possessions that we didn't utilize.   
THE MODERATOR: Ladies, thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT