U.S. TEAM OLYMPIC TRIALS: SWIMMING
June 28, 2012
Scott Weltz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
SCOTT WELTZ:   Yeah, I knew this next heat is pretty stacked, so they were talking about it in the "ready room" and we had to kind of get some good times in there because a lot of good guys in this next heat going out of the gate.   
We just tried to get out of there, get some good times.   
   
 Q.   What's going on between now and tomorrow?   
SCOTT WELTZ:   The 200 IM in the morning tomorrow, get a little warm‑up swim in and then tomorrow night.   
   
 Q.   How important is it to be in that center lane?   
SCOTT WELTZ:   You know, I don't know, on breaststroke it's funny because I feel like if you can see the person, they're probably that far ahead of you.   Other strokes you see around a lot better.   
In breast if you can see, they're probably quite a bit ahead of you.   It definitely helps on the turns.   So, I mean, you get some clean water if you're out in front, I guess it's beneficial.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
SCOTT WELTZ:   In the finals of the 100 breast, because I knew I had to go faster, so I went out too hard, and I changed my race.   I didn't swim my own race.   I'm more of a "back half" guy, and tonight I went out easy, not forcing anything, and build into it.   
I think it's good learning experience.   I don't have that much high‑level racing experience in big‑level meets like that, so I had to learn from it.   
   
 Q.   2:10.3 is a pretty good time.   Obviously a lot of people are saying it's going to take 2:10 to make the Olympic Team.   
SCOTT WELTZ:   I hope so.   I'm just getting out there and racing, doing my best every time, awesome competition, it's fun to swim with these guys.   If I can hang with them, if I got a lane, I'm going to try and do my best to get there.   It's really all I can do.   
   
 Q.   Are you surprising yourself at all this week?   
SCOTT WELTZ:   You know, I don't think so.   I think I'm surprising a lot of people except maybe me and my coach, and probably my mom, maybe just because she is a mom, she is probably not surprised.   But my coach kept telling me, "You can do this, you can do this," and me and him are the only ones that believed that until now, so I don't think I'm surprised that much.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT