NBA DRAFT
June 25, 2009
Tyreke Evans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Are you looking forward to doing more work with corporate entities?
 TYREKE EVANS: I'm looking forward to doing more things with them. I'm pretty good friends with John Starks, so after I get situated, my brother will talk to him and hopefully we can work something out. 

 Q. Can you talk about the one thing that you have to work on going into Sacramento? 
 TYREKE EVANS: Just my shooting ability and I think everything else, I'm just going to work hard every day, just try to get my shot better. 

 Q. Is there a particular position you prefer to play, shooting guard, point guard?
 TYREKE EVANS: Not really. A lot of coaches ask me that question a lot, point guard or shooting and I tell them I'm a basketball player. I can play both positions and I'll go to Sacramento and play wherever they want me to play. 

 Q. You played for Memphis and that's one of the few cities where the college game is more popular than the pro game. Are you surprised from a business decision that they didn't select --
 TYREKE EVANS: I think they wanted a big man that could help them out on defense. I mean, I would love to go there. It's like my second home, went to school there. 
 The games we go to in the morning, they will be sold out and come to a Grizzly game and there will be only a little bit of people in the stands. I probably could have got more people in (laughter).

 Q. When you signed with Memphis, did you have in your mind that you played there one year and did Coach Calipari's leaving, what impact did that have?
 TYREKE EVANS: That have a lot of impact. I was thinking of staying another year and he told me he was going to Kentucky and he thought I should put my name in the Draft and get a chance to see where I was at. It worked out good and I won't turn back now.

 Q. How much better of a player are you now? What have you learned from him that's helped, things you've learned?
 TYREKE EVANS: I learned a lot of things on and off the court. He stayed with me every day in practice even though I was a veteran on the team. He made me a better shooter on the court, taking better shots and things like that. He just helped me out a lot. 

 Q. You went to work out for Sacramento, twice?
 TYREKE EVANS: Yes. 

 Q. First time against nobody. Who was it against the second time, and what did they tell you that might have made you think that they were going to take you? 
 TYREKE EVANS: I worked out the first time, I think I did pretty good. I was knocking down shots. That was the knock on me coming into the Draft was that my shot wasn't that good and they seen that I could shoot the ball and the second time they wanted me to come work out with some guards and I told them I would do it. They said I was stronger over a lot others there. 

 Q. Who did you work out with?
 TYREKE EVANS: Jonny Flynn, Stephen Curry. 

 Q. One question I wanted to ask you, Jason Thompson and Spencer, two up-and-coming big men, how much do you look forward to playing with them and that inside-outside game? 
 TYREKE EVANS: Like you said, two good big men that are young. I've seen them play a lot on the AAU circuit, so I think I will go in there and help kick down some baskets. 

 Q. This is something that you've been working for since you were seven years old. What is it like to have this moment finally be here? 
 TYREKE EVANS: It's crazy. I mean, I dreamed, like you said, since I was seven years old watching all the NBA games, I was a fan of Tim Hardaway and that's what I grew up watching. And now that I'm here, it's just big. 

 Q. Can you comment on the reaction? 
 TYREKE EVANS: It's just crazy. I've been getting it a lot, but now they call me mister and I ain't ever heard nobody call me mister. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT