NBA FINALS: HEAT v MAVERICKS
June 11, 2006
Erick Dampier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Can you talk about what you guys were able to do, as a team to keep Shaq grounded tonight? 
 ERICK DAMPIER:  We just tried to give him defensive looks in the defensive scheme.  All depends on where he was catching the ball.  We would double sometimes, which made him pass the ball out to open players and they had to make plays.  I think we just put together a good defensive effort tonight. 

 Q.  Shaq has been pretty hard on you in the past, as hard as he's been on anyone pretty much, do you take it personally, and does it inspire you when you go against him? 
 ERICK DAMPIER:  I just go out there and play and do whatever I can to help the team win. 
 Obviously we made some comments back and forth last year.  I think that's behind us now.  So, you know, I think the most important thing is just for me to go out there and play and help the team win. 

 Q.  You didn't play a lot in the Phoenix series, so coming in and helping stop Shaq like you did, is it kind of like a vindication for you? 
 ERICK DAMPIER:  Even though I didn't play a lot in the Phoenix series, it gave me an opportunity to get a lot of rest.  They played a smaller lineup, so we had to play smaller.  Diop came in and did an excellent job for us.  We have guys that can come off the bench, and my job to come in and be a quality center in the series, so we're pleased. 

 Q.  How do you and Diop complement each other? 
 ERICK DAMPIER:  When he's on the floor, I'm trying to find things in his game to help him, even when I'm on the floor and he tries to find things that I can do better to help the team win. 

 Q.  A lot of talk in here has been about how Shaq didn't get that many touches and it's pretty much a guarantee they are going to make a statement in Game 3 with him, can you talk about stepping up your game even more? 
 ERICK DAMPIER:  In Game 1 they said he didn't get a lot of touches.  You went back and watched the game, I think he got 30 touches and 12 times he passed it out.  How many more times does he want to touch the ball; regardless of what they do, we are going to make the adjustments. 

 Q.  Alonzo Mourning talked about how it was going to be a long night for the Mavericks and they talked about adjustments they were going to make and you guys basically made sure none of those predictions came true. 
 ERICK DAMPIER:  Hey, it's the two best teams, one from the East and one from the West.  Whoever can go out and execute the best, execute their game plan.  We still have a system of what we're supposed to do defensively and we went out and were victorious. 

 Q.  Surprised Shaquille sat out the second half? 
 ERICK DAMPIER:  We know 8 percent of their offense is going to run through Wade and Shaq, so we have to stick with our defensive tactic and defend hard the shots that he takes. 

 Q.  You've had great depth through the playoffs, how much should it continue to help you guys through these next couple of games? 
 ERICK DAMPIER:  We're definitely deep.  You know, we have guys that come off the bench and give us quality time, all of our scorers.  We just try to do what we can to help the team.  Whenever I get the opportunity to score I just try to make the most of it or create some for someone else. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT