NBA FINALS: HEAT v MAVERICKS
June 7, 2006
Erick Dampier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. It's interesting, you're a guy, didn't see you in the last series that much and now you're the center of attention? 
 ERICK DAMPIER:  No, I'm not really the center of attention.  Obviously it's about two teams that are going to go out there and see who plays the best.  We've played these guys well. 
 The last series gave me an opportunity to rest my legs and just get prepared for the next series.  I just kept my condition up, practiced hard and just stayed in basketball playing shape. 
 Q.  A little history with Shaq, of course you made that statement, second best center in the league, I guess you can prove that you're the best center in the league? 
 ERICK DAMPIER:  That was last year.  A lot of comments were made back and forth.  I guess it was just all in joking.  So, hey, you know, this is what every player dreams of, this is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.  Just go out and play hard and do what I can to help my team win. 
 Q.  What has this been like for you to go through, you're such a team guy, I know how you are and you've accepted whatever role they have given you? 
 ERICK DAMPIER:  Obviously there's a big difference from last year and this year.  Last year I got the opportunity to score a lot more, got the ball in transition.  This year I'm not really getting the ball or getting the opportunity to score more. 
 Just go out there and look to rebound and just try to find ways to get myself in the game whether it's pick-and-roll or go to the basket open or just be on the offensive glass and just try to score and go to the foul line. 
 Q.  How do you handle the Big Aristotle? 
 ERICK DAMPIER:  Just go out and play him the way I played him the first two times during the season. 
 Obviously the ball is going to go through his hands, 80 percent of the offense is going to run through him.  I just have to transition him, make him run and not give him easy baskets. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT