UNIVERSITY OF TULSA FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 27, 2018
Phil Montgomery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Tulane - 24, Tulsa - 17
PHIL MONTGOMERY: Another tough loss.  Had opportunities throughout the game.  I thought we had a couple in the first half, obviously, that you have to take advantage of.  Had a couple penalties there that really helped them and we just got to finish right there.  We get a couple scores in there, defense is playing pretty well, gave up a couple of explosive plays today that we haven't been giving up, but our guys are battling, they're fighting and just got to get over the hump.
Q. You mentioned some of those penalties, you don't have a lot of penalties, just seem like they came at bad times?
PHIL MONTGOMERY: Bad times.
Q. Bad times.  How frustrating.  I know everything is frustrating, but what can you even do to address that because it's just here and there?
PHIL MONTGOMERY: And a lot of those things -- some of those things you've just got to be more disciplined on.  If you're jumping offsides, we're a third and short and all of a sudden it puts us at a third and long.  We've just got to be disciplined right there.  The one on the field goal part of it, that's, we got to be better right there.  Our penalties just came at bad times and you just can't have that.  Guys are fighting extremely hard and everybody's wanting to make a play and -- but we still got to be disciplined about what we do in those situations, and we can't hurt ourselves and that's what happens in those situations.
Q. You talked about the missed opportunities early.  You got a field goal.  Edmiston gets the turnover.  You don't get any points out of that.  Just expand on how much that hurt.
PHIL MONTGOMERY: Yeah, it's frustrating, obviously.  We knew coming in, I mean when you -- I think you can take both teams throw the records out of it and then when you really sit down and look at it on tape and break them down, and this is a team that really dominated Memphis when they played.  This is a very tough team to run the football against.  They have shown that all year long.  You get down in those situations, down in the red zone when you're wanting to rely on some of those things that makes it difficult on you.  At times we had some spark runs in there.  But when you get those opportunities, you get the punt return right there by Jarion, which was a great play by him, you need touchdowns out of those instead of field goals.  And if you have to settle for a field goal, then especially at the distance that we're at, you got to make those.  Those chip shots that got to be done.
Q. Fourth quarter game tied at 17 and you guys are in your own territory and you go for it on fourth down.  What went into that decision?
PHIL MONTGOMERY: Yeah, I mean we've got to go win the game.  And you punt it right there.  They were moving the ball decently, they're in the fourth quarter, but you're probably not going to get the ball back in that sense.  We're fourth and short and we've got a drive going.  I think we got them kind of on their heels a little bit and we've got to finish that right there.  So I'm not going to second-guess that part of it.  We're in plus territory and we got an opportunity, we got momentum, we made some plays and just need to convert right there.
Q. You knew it was going to take winning out to make a bowl game but now that it's --
PHIL MONTGOMERY: We've still got a lot to play for and most importantly it's pride.  Pride for the name on the front of our jersey and pride for the name on the back of our jersey.  Our guys work extremely hard and we continue to battle and we continue to fight and our guys have always done that.  We'll continue to do that.  And like I said, we've got pride about what we do and how we do it.
Q. You knew Tulane was going to be pretty good against the run.  How did that affect what you wanted to do on offense?  It seemed like there were a lot more attempts down field with Seth throwing?
PHIL MONTGOMERY: Yeah, they're a press man team.  Box is going to be extremely heavy and we knew we were going to have to make some plays on the outside.  We made a few, needed to make a few more, had opportunities to do that.  We missed a few of them, Seth overthrew one there.  We had opportunities on other ones and we just got to come down and make those plays.  And that's what you're wanting as a receiver, it's what you're wanting as a quarterback, to be in a position that it's going to be put on you and we got to go do that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT