NL DIVISION SERIES: ROCKIES VS BREWERS
October 7, 2018
Kyle Freeland
Nolan Arenado
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nolan, back here at home after a long time on the road, first of all, last night or the night before last when you got in and yesterday, do you feel like you're finally rested for a little bit after a rough week?  
NOLAN ARENADO: Yeah, I think so.  It was nice to be in your own bed, that's for sure, sleep in a little bit.  But this is the Playoffs.  Honestly, it wasn't that bad being on the road.  It's not easy, doesn't make it easy being in hotels, but that's just part of the grind, and it's part of the game.   
No.  It definitely feels good to be home in our own bed and definitely be in something you're familiar with, and it's good to be in just Colorado in general.   
 Q.  Obviously after the pressure Wild Card game, you guys won and these first two games, do you feel kind of -- obviously every pitch means something, but do you feel the attention, and is there pressure here just trying to get a series started and trying to get a win for your team?  
NOLAN ARENADO: I don't know about that.  Every game is do or die now, so that's enough pressure as it is.  But those are things -- we're just trying to go out there and win a ballgame.  That's all we're trying to think about.  We're not worried about what's going on around us or what the other team is doing.   
I think the main focus is to go out there and try to win a ballgame and get back here tomorrow with the opportunity to send it back to Milwaukee.   
 Q.  Nolan, offensively you guys, obviously there was a lot of frustration in Milwaukee.  It was visible to everybody that you guys were frustrated.  How do -- you come back home.  Obviously there's a comfort level here, but it's still a quick turnaround, two days after a grind like that going on the road for three different states, three different days.  Offensively, how do you bring it back to what you know you can do and kind of start producing again?  
NOLAN ARENADO: Yeah, I think -- obviously we're back home.  It'll be nice to hear our crowd.  I think we're going to feed off that, but I think we've just got to slow the game down.  Being on the home side is a little bit different than being on the away side, that's for sure, but there's an opportunity to win a ballgame, and we understand that.   
We know who we are as an offense.  We'll have our talks and our meetings before the game today, but there isn't a whole lot of discussion.  We know what we need to do.  We don't need to talk about it.  We see it.  It's visible.  Like you guys said, it's visible what we're doing up there at the plate, and it's just not getting it done.   
We know what we need to do, and we're going to continue to work at it and find a way.   
 Q.  Kyle, the prospect of starting a playoff game in Denver, your hometown where you grew up, this is your town --  
KYLE FREELAND: Yeah.   
 Q.  What does that feel like to you?  
KYLE FREELAND: It's extremely exciting.  I take a lot of pride.  I know the rest of the team takes a lot of pride, not only in this city, but in the team in general.  Myself being from here, growing up watching this team, watching the mostly valleys and a few peaks that they've had over the past 25 years, it's felt like I've been with them the whole way.   
I'm very excited to be able to continue this post season and get some more wins.   
 Q.  Kyle, the way that the rest worked, you could probably have started today, but to see Buddy -- obviously he gave the ball to German.  Is there a part of you that says, that shows a lot of confidence that he's going to get the job done today?  
KYLE FREELAND: Absolutely.  Look at Marquez's second half, he's got an extremely hot hand.  He's gone out there and dominated and shown what he can truly do.  I have full confidence in Marquez that he's going to out there and do his job tonight.  Obviously being a competitor, you always want to be the one who takes the at-bat or takes a ball or takes the mound or whatever, but you also have to have complete confidence in your teammates to let them do their job and help this team move on.   
 Q.  Nolan, is there much -- you said that you've done all the talking you need to do, but do you see a team-wide approach different today, or is it more just each guy kind of finding his own swing, and to add to that, where is your swing right now?  
NOLAN ARENADO: I think there needs to be a -- yeah, we're going to talk about an approach against Miley and the rest of their bullpen guys.  We've seen all of them the last two days, which is a good thing.  There's familiarity there.  They're still good, but there's still familiarity, and that always helps you as a player.  But we'll talk about that.  We'll get that done.   
And as for me individually, I feel fine.  You know, it's the Playoffs.  I don't think it really matters.  You've just got to find a way to get the job done.  There were times where I wasn't.  There's times where I did.  And I understand it's the Playoffs, and it's all about what you did.   
I'm just going to go out there and do my thing.  I feel fine.  I'm going to try to see the ball, hit the ball hard, and hopefully good things happen.   
 Q.  Nolan, my apologies if this has been asked, but you guys have been pretty much road warriors for quite a while here.  How big was having yesterday off to essentially not have to do anything if you didn't want to and to just recharge and maybe even get away from the game for a day?  I know that's tough for you, but did that matter to you guys?  
NOLAN ARENADO: Yeah, I think so.  It mattered coming home.  It just feels good.  When you step off the plane, you smell Colorado air.  You just get that feeling that you're home.  It just feels good to be back here.  Yeah, it felt good.  We're happy that we're rested.  We're going to be ready to go today, and we're going to try to get a win.   
 Q.  What did you do yesterday?  Did you hit?  Did you rest?  Did you just get away from it or did you watch film?  
NOLAN ARENADO: Well, we had like optional, so I came in and did some treatment and did some things to get ready for today, hit a little bit, watched video, watched some of the playoff games.  Just kind of relaxed and just hung out, just kind of enjoyed a nice little Saturday off, which I don't think we've had in like nine months.  It was pretty cool.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT