NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 10, 2012
Simon Gagne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Simon Gagne.   
   
 Q.   What is the mood of the team coming back here?   
SIMON GAGNE:   We're pretty good.   We're back home now.   We had a good sleep last night.   We had a good meeting this morning.   We're in good position right now.   
Even if it's 3‑2 in the series, we have a chance to play here in L.A. in Game 6 and close it at home.   Mood is pretty good this morning.  
   
 Q.   A lot of people are wondering how this team will react to adversity because you haven't had much of it yet.   
SIMON GAGNE:   I wouldn't agree with that.   I think we had a lot of it this year with the coaching change, battling to get to the playoffs.   That takes a lot of character to get through that.   We know how to deal with it.   
It seems in the playoff, we had it a little bit easier than people think.   At the same time we had to go into Vancouver and win Game5, and Phoenix Game5.   Now we have another challenge in front of us.   It's going to be the first time we're in the series 3‑2.   It will be a first challenge for us and we'll take that, for sure.   
   
 Q.   You haven't been in this position before in the Stanley Cup Playoffs.   What do you do personally to try to get a little extra emotional or physical energy when you're physically or mentally tired?  
SIMON GAGNE:   At this point I think both teams are feeling pretty much the same way energy‑wise, physically and mentally.   I think both teams are at the same point right now.   
As a player, I think each individual has to find a way to get that extra energy.   That might make the difference at the end of the game.   I think it's up to each one of us to take care of ourself today and find a way to be a hundred percent and full of energy for tomorrow night.   
   
 Q.   How do you do that personally?  
SIMON GAGNE:   I'm sure I'm not going to say everything I'm doing for the rest of the day.   But I'll take care of myself and do whatever I have to do, you know, to feel hundred percent tomorrow.   
I did some stuff this morning.   We didn't skate this morning.   We had the option to go on, knowing this is where you have to decide if you keep your energy for tomorrow or if you're going to do morning skate.   That's what I'm going to do.   For rest of the day, I'll drink plenty of water, get plenty of rest, and I'll be ready for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   How do you think the travel comes into play?   
SIMON GAGNE:   I don't know.   At this point I don't know, it's the Stanley Cup Finals, so whatever you have to go through, you know, you have to be ready.   
They traveled, too.   I'm not sure if they traveled last night or today.   At this point on, I think we're used to it.   We're a team that used to travel a lot during the season, even in the playoff.   
We know what to expect and we'll be ready.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Simon.   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT