NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLYERS v BLACKHAWKS
May 31, 2010
Simon Gagne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. So what's going to be different in your guy's game tonight?   
 SIMON GAGNE: I will be a lot better defensively. I don't think we are really happy the way we were playing in the zone, especially in front of the net. It looked like the slot area was a lot open for them. And it's something that we didn't really do against Montreal or against Boston.   
 Even against the first round, against Jersey. So I think by playing a little bit better in their zone, that should be better for us.  
  
  Q. Simon, you guys weren't your usual physical selves in your first game. With Carcillo coming back in tonight, A, what do you expect, and B, how much do you need what he brings?   
 SIMON GAGNE: He's a guy that -- you know he's not a big guy, but he's going to bring some physical aspect. He's going to run around, I think, finish every check that he's able to do, and at the same time, he's got some skills too. He's a guy who can make some plays and score some big goals for us against Jersey in the first round.   
 So he's definitely going to bring a lot of energy on the team. Like you said, the first game was not very physical on both sides, but we expect that to change on both teams. Having Danny on our side definitely is going to help.   
  
  Q. Simon, can you talk about the confidence level you guys have going into Game 2? Do you pull on the stuff you guys have gone through earlier in these Playoffs to give you that confidence?   
 SIMON GAGNE: Yeah, the first game is done. And now it's time to focus on the game tonight. We did some good things in the first game. Now you show that we were able to play against that team, something that playing a team you only play once in a season, it's hard to know the feeling, to know what are you going to do against that team.   
 Having that first one under our belt right now and know what we can do and what we have to do to beat that team, we feel confident. We feel confident now. We feel confidence about our game. I'm sure they do too on their side. For us, we came here to get one win in Chicago, and that's what we're going to try to do tonight.   
  
  Q. Simon, knowing that Chicago plays real well on the road, are you looking at tonight as a must-win for you guys?   
 SIMON GAGNE: Must win? I think every game is very important. Sure you like to win the first one. They did. I think it was right there for us. But like I just said, we came here to split series. We have a great opportunity for us tonight to do it.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Simon.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT