ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 11, 2018
Ellyse Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Australia - 94/1, Ireland - 93/6
Q. Forget about the bowl.  Was it good to know that you could remember how to bat?
ELLYSE PERRY: Look, it was lovely to have a small opportunity in the middle.  But I think even more impressively so was Alyssa Healy's batting today.  And Beth got us off to a great start, too.
So a really comprehensive, I think, performance by those two.  And to come out in the end, and stand up at the other end and watch Midge hit the ball is kind of what she is.
Q. How frustrating has it been for you; you've taken on this new role, but obviously you love to be out there scoring runs?
ELLYSE PERRY: No, it's not frustrating at all, because it's been incredibly enjoyable to see the way the team has been evolving over the last 12 months and even in the last six months as well, the work that we've put in to play this style of cricket that we want to play.
And I think everyone's -- it's been mentioned a lot, but everyone's bought into that.  Everyone's got specific roles that they're in the team to play, and I think it's been an absolute pleasure to be a part of that and to see some of the success that we've had so far.
Q. And, just, it was such a clinical victory.  Was it important for you to make sure that you had that at this stage in the tournament against a team that probably wasn't seen as being as strong?
ELLYSE PERRY: Yeah, I think in World Cup tournaments, every match is really important, regardless of your opposition.  For two reasons:  One, the sport's an amazing thing and results, I guess, surprise people at the time.
But secondly, you know, if you want to be successful in these tournaments, I think you've got to play consistently well.  And you've really got to nail the blueprint of play, I guess, that's going to take you all the way.  So I think every opportunity we have in a match is an opportunity to do that.
And I think it gives people a lot of confidence, too, when the team's playing well consistently.  And various people are getting opportunities at times, which is awesome as well, and I think important when we get put under pressure potentially later in the tournament.
Q. Were you aware of what was happening with the running on the pitch; what had happened in the game, and what was happening with Pakistan, did you guys get any warnings?
ELLYSE PERRY: We spoke about it briefly before we started, just to be mindful of it and aware of it.
I guess it's one of those things that if there's particular attention being paid to it by the umpires, we've really got to adhere to what they want the -- or the way they want things to happen.  So, yeah, we're aware of it.  I don't think there was any issues when we were batting.  So, yeah, it's just going to be one of those things going forward in the tournament, I guess.
Q. Is it partly, do you think, going to be a problem -- is it going to change things for you as far as coming down the wicket because of the slow pitch and a lot of slow bowlers you're facing?
ELLYSE PERRY: Look, I don't think so.  I think batters are well within their rights to come down to the pitch of the ball.  I suppose it's just after you play that shot being particularly aware of where your following steps are, maybe that's something we can kind of practise a little bit at training.  As I said, I don't think there was any issues with us tonight.  So I don't see it being a big deal.
Q. Do you think the umpires are paying more attention to it?
ELLYSE PERRY: Look, I've never played in a tournament where this has been, I guess, a key issue.  It seems to be in the first couple of matches.  And that's completely fine.  That's within the rules of cricket and something that they're paying particular attention to.
I wonder if, to a degree, that's also got to do with the fact that we're playing a lot of games on these wickets and we probably need to be mindful of looking after them.  And I think we want really good games of cricket.  So we need good wickets for that.
So I don't see any issue with them paying close attention to it.  As I said, I think it wasn't an issue for us tonight, and it's probably not going to be going forward.
Q. What is key to doing well on this Providence wicket?
ELLYSE PERRY: Yeah, I think there's quite particular conditions out there.  And we probably learned them quite early in the practise match we had here.  I think that was really important against South Africa.
And I think a big one for the bowlers is just length.  I think we found that when you're into the wicket and sort of hitting a hard length the ball really skids on, and it's kind of nice, in a way, to face a bit of that tonight when I went out there to bat, because it really solidified just how skitty the wicket is, and it's also hard to pick out the ball under the lights.  I think that's crucial.  You can't give width.
And I think, as a blueprint from the bowling side, spin and pace, it's been really effective.  And I guess batting-wise, you've just got to look at Alyssa Healy and the way she's playing tonight, accessing pockets in the ground, playing straight with good shapers, has been really effective.  And when you get a loose ball, putting it away.  Pretty simple.
Q. How important was this from a net run point of view, concerning that may be a factor later in the tournament?
ELLYSE PERRY: I don't think you can discount net run rate.  I think it was really pleasing the way that we chased.  We came out there, as I said, with great intent as players from ball one and Alyssa and Beth were absolutely key in that.
Sometimes that doesn't happen and you've got to grind out a bit more of a win.  And at the end of the day, I think the most crucial thing is winning.  But when you can win well, particularly in these kinds of tournaments, it's especially important.
Q. Unrelated to the match, trying to find out more about the stories behind each players' shirt numbers.  Can you tell us why you've chosen yours?
ELLYSE PERRY: I really don't like uneven numbers.  So I think my debut series actually I wore No. 6.  And then what happened?  Oh, yeah.  There was a player actually still playing Australia who had that number and that made a problem.  So my next series, when I was on the team, kind of shifted up to number 8 and have played with it ever since.  Other than that, no real story on it.
Q. Why don't you like uneven numbers?
ELLYSE PERRY: I don't know.  But I don't like it on volume buttons.  I don't like it on my shirt.  I don't know.  It's strange.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT