ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 17, 2019
Grant Forrest
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Grant, 71 yesterday, six pars to start today's round, so you're 1-under for 24 holes, and then suddenly, bam, seven birdies in the last 12.  What happened?
GRANT FORREST: Just got on a good run around the turn.  Great birdie on 7, the par-3.  Knocked it on in two on the 8th and two-putted.  Then hit one close on 9, chipped it close on 10, nice putt on 11, and holed a bunker shot on the 15th, as well, so that was the only green I missed all day, and I holed the bunker shot, so that was just -- momentum was just going my way.  Unfortunately I didn't birdie 18 there, which was a good chance, but overall just delighted with the round.
Q. Rookie year on the European Tour.  You've come up through the Challenge Tour, finishing second there, so obviously showing some great form.  What are your expectations?
GRANT FORREST: It's always to win.  I always want to win golf tournaments.  I came close three times, had three seconds on the Challenge Tour last year, so hopefully I can break the deadlock at some point this year.
Q. What are the strengths of your game?
GRANT FORREST: I've been driving it really well.  Drove it really well today and gave me a lot of chances coming in with some shorter putts.  I'm putting very nicely, as well, so that's what's working for me this week.
Q. Things are looking pretty good for the Scots, lots of them on Tour this year.  Who are you hanging out with?  Who are your friends?
GRANT FORREST: Robert MacIntyre, Liam Johnson, Dave Law, some other guys from the Challenge Tour, we're all pretty good mates.  We really aspired each other on last year.  We were just trying to make it on to the European Tour.
Q. That's a fantastic round 65, seven birdies in nine holes.  You really got on a good run there.
GRANT FORREST: Yeah, I did.  I missed a few chances early on, had some good chances in the first three and rolled a nice one in on 7 and just got the momentum going, hit a couple close, and managed to hole a bunker shot, as well, on the 15th.  Yeah, it was just -- just got hot at the right time around the turn, and I'm delighted.
Q. What's pleased you most about your game over the last two days here?
GRANT FORREST: I think I've driven the ball well, especially today.  You have to drive it well around this course or you're going to be toiling.  Really just my attitude.  I've been just trying to stay patient.  You're going to have chances out here, and that's been the biggest thing for me the first two rounds.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT