THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2013
Grant Forrest
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GRANT FORREST:  I had a great time.  It was really tough
out there, but I'd like to thank Mark and Marcus, who made it
enjoyable, made me feel comfortable out there.
Q.  The first tee, were you nervous?
GRANT FORREST:  Quite unnerving, not as bad as I thought
I would be.  I think a lot of the nerves came out in the practice
rounds, when you're playing with big names, as well.  So I was a
bit more prepared, but still quite nervous.
Q.  Did you see anything with Mark on the first couple of
holes?  He was going along quite nicely.
GRANT FORREST:  Yeah, he got off it to a flier, he was
4-under in no time.  He started talking to me as soon as we got
off the first tee.  So just kind of got silent and it was good.
Q.  What was the highlight?
GRANT FORREST:  15, I played 15 really well.  I had a
good drive down the middle, and then 7-iron to the back left pin
to about 15 feet and then hold that.  And that kind of got -- I
got that momentum back, and I made a few bogeys.  And then I
birdied 16, as well.
Q.  What club?
GRANT FORREST:  8-iron, about 15 feet.  And then
three-putted from back of the green on 17 for a par, which was a
bit disappointing.  But I thought I had a good first putt.  The
greens are getting so fast out there, they just run about eight
feet past.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
GRANT FORREST:  Yes and no.  I mean, obviously I'm
staying at home with my mum and my sister, so it's a lot more
relaxing on that side of it, but then coming here with the crowds
and the grandstands and stuff, it's a bit different than what I'm
used to.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
GRANT FORREST:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, it was a bit
of a battle out there.  I had a couple of bad breaks and bunkers,
but then also I had a couple of good breaks.  So, yeah, I
definitely would have taken it at the start of the day.
And then hopefully teeing off in the morning there will
be a bit of moisture on the greens and they might play a bit
easier.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
GRANT FORREST:  Not really.  I mean we've not had a
summer kind of like this, for a long time, I don't think.  And
it's been a while since I've seen a course this fast and firm, but
this is how it used to be and this is how it's designed to be
played.
Q.  So take what the course gives?
GRANT FORREST:  Yeah, you just have to hit good shots out
there and sometimes they are good and sometimes you get unlucky.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
GRANT FORREST:  No, maybe two or three hours, yeah.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
GRANT FORREST:  Half eight, I was up before then, I was
just lying there.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
GRANT FORREST:  I just heard that somebody made an 8.
And then I saw a bit of it in the players' lounge, watching that
and a couple of guys were making bogeys and a double on the first.
But I was just glad to get through that.  I missed a shortish putt
for a par.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
GRANT FORREST:  No, I had it right off the tee and
actually ended up on the path, about five yards inside the tent --
the wall.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
GRANT FORREST:  No, took off, but it kind of -- it never
kept going over.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
GRANT FORREST:  Yeah, I missed the green left, which was
a no-no this morning with that pin.  And I played a great chip,
about as close as I could get it to six feet and I just missed the
putt.
Q.  What did Mark say to you at the end?
GRANT FORREST:  He said to hang in there and good fight,
because I was 4-over after 14.  And just made a few bogeys.  But I
managed to play some good shots at the end.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
GRANT FORREST:  Yeah, he was.  It can be -- well, as
daunting, you know, playing in The Open the first time.  And it
can make a big difference in the guys you're playing with.
Because they don't talk to you, they kind of shoo you out of the
way, it can make you feel really uncomfortable.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
GRANT FORREST:  Oh, absolutely, uh-huh, definitely.  He
was really good.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT