HNA OPEN DE FRANCE
June 28, 2018
Andy Sullivan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A 68 on the back of four Top-10s in your last five starts.  Are you fully back to your best.
ANDY SULLIVAN: I think it's close.  Today was up there with it.  Feel like I've gone through the tough times now and come out the other side of it and feel like I'm also improving on what I had before.
It's nice, you know, nice to be back to form and going out there and just playing golf again.  No worries, and it was great.  A little bit extra motivation out there today with the loss of a loved one close, but still, got to go out there and do the job and hopefully do one for him this week.
Q. Sorry to hear that, Andy.  How much of a benchmark is Le Golf National in terms of weighing where your game is at, when you're churning out good numbers around here, does it mean something a little extra?
ANDY SULLIVAN: Definitely.  Any time you can shoot in the 60s around here, it's special.  They get the course setup perfect every year.  If you play well, you shoot a good score.  If you don't, you're going to shoot a lot of numbers.
I love coming out here.  It's one of my favorite weeks of the year.  Fans are great, golf course couldn't be setup better, and I'm playing well, so it's perfect.
Q. Is there a better feeling in golf than posting a number and then the wind getting up?
ANDY SULLIVAN: Yeah, I was realising that when I was coming down the last three.  I was thinking if we could shoot a number, we can watch everyone struggle this afternoon.  It's going to be tough this afternoon.  I presume we'll get the same tomorrow, or maybe not, we'll see.  But it's great to be up there again.
Q. 68 opening round, you must be over the moon?
ANDY SULLIVAN: Yeah, definitely.  Any time you shoot in the 60s is an achievement around here.  It's just, you know, one hole at a time, one shot at a time, because there's a pending disaster on every hole out there.  You really have got to be on it all the time and today played really well, managed my ball really well and holed some really good putts, as well.
Q. Driving must have been straight because it's very narrow.  How has the course been playing, some subtle changes with the wind blowing?
ANDY SULLIVAN: I wouldn't say massive changes.  Just nipped a few fairways in, a few bunkers here and there.  I really like it.
It's predicted dry weather, so the week is going to get firmer and faster and only going to get tougher.  I quite like that.  I think if you go out there with the mind-set of you're going to make bogeys -- but if you hit the ball well enough, you're going to make birdies.  I really enjoy that type of golf where ten, 12-under going to be a good benchmark.
Q. Speaking of bogeys, we saw you one of the victims on the second.  You weren't the only one, but probably your best bogey?
ANDY SULLIVAN: Yeah, I didn't feel like I was a victim there.  I felt like I got out with a birdie almost.  I was quite happy to take five there and run and when you hole a putt of that length, just kept me going, kept the momentum going, going done the next hole and birdies that kept my spirits up.
It's one of them days where everything sort of went right for me today and even when it went wrong, I seemed to put it right the next hole, so it worked out great.
Q. Wind is not going to get any slower and the greens will speed up.  Will it be nice having lunch and seeing the guys struggle this afternoon?
ANDY SULLIVAN: Well, you say that, but someone always seems to find it around.  I think it's nice knowing that I've posted a number and whoever is out there, you know it's going to be difficult for everyone to post a number.  You can see a few guys doing it but not the whole field.
Hopefully tomorrow, the wind lays down for us in the afternoon and the guys on the other side of the draw will be fuming probably but that's just the way it is.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT