OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 27, 2018
Andy Sullivan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Was that something close to your best out there this afternoon?  
ANDY SULLIVAN: Yeah, I think weirdly enough the first few days played just as good.  Just got the putter going today.  Holed a lot of footage today, which is always helpful on the way to 63.   
But it feels like it's been coming for the first three weeks, really.  I've come out of the gates -- felt like I've come out of the gates, and my game is in good shape and just not quite put the finishing touches to it.  It's nice to be on the right side of a tournament on the business end of a tournament.   
 Q.  Obviously it's not been the best 12 months for you.  What's been the difference and how hard have you worked to get back to your best?  
ANDY SULLIVAN: Yeah, I've worked very hard.  With seven weeks off from DP World to the start of the year, really put in some really for the in the gym and effort on the golf course, as well.  Really trying to work hard.  I want to get back to my best.   
Obviously it's Ryder Cup year, and when you've played in one of them, you don't want to miss another one.  It's important for me to get back to where I belong and get back on the leaderboard and try to pick up some of these tournaments.   
 Q.  7-under through your last ten.  Talk us through a few highlights.  
ANDY SULLIVAN: The par 5s I played nicely.  Just played them really solidly.  Got on the greens and 2-putted, sort of thing.   
But 12, 63 feet there from pin-high right, so that was massive, really.  Just things like just keep you going that little bit more.  Obviously to roll in two on 16, 17 from 20-odd feet was really good, as well.   
Just felt like the putter got hot.  With me it's generally the same way, if the putter gets hot, once one goes in, they all seem to follow.   
It was nice just to go out there and feel back to the old me again, and hopefully go out there and do the same again tomorrow.   
 Q.  It must have pleased you, that 2-putt on the last because it was tricky, wasn't it.  
ANDY SULLIVAN: Definitely.  My pace had been really good all day.  I had not knocked it the closest, so to get one to that close on the last, it was nice.  But yeah, feels really good.   
 Q.  Do you feed off previous performances here?  
ANDY SULLIVAN: Yeah, definitely.  I know it's somewhere where I adore coming to.  I seem to play pretty well here, and the golf course really does suit my eye.  It's been great.  Hopefully many more to come.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT