COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 27, 2017
Andy Sullivan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 4-under, 8-under, tied for the lead.  Give us your thoughts on that round.
ANDY SULLIVAN: Frustrating start to the day.  Felt like that nine I played there, I thought it was a nine I could really get going and sort of platform Me into the back nine, but didn't really happen.  I thought tee-to-green, struck it really well, but didn't quite convert the putt.  Caddie just told me to be patient on this nine and still hitting good shots.  Finally the putts started to drop.
All in all, reasonably happy with that.  Feel like going into the weekend, just need to improve on the par 5 scoring.
Q. What were conditions like out there?  Much more wind about today?
ANDY SULLIVAN: Yeah, there was a little bit more wind about today.  Surprising for the morning.  There's some holes it plays easier and some holes it plays tougher.  Pretty much the same as yesterday to be fair.
I quite like it with a little bit of wind.  You can maneuver the ball a bit and get close to a few pins that you probably couldn't get close to yesterday with the greens so firm.
Q. There's one hole out there I thought was particularly tough out there, but it wasn't for you.  It was that 8th hole, downhill, pin tight on the left to the water; what were you thinking standing on that tee?
ANDY SULLIVAN: You know, the caddie was just like, hit just a straight ball 9-iron at the TV tower, and if the wind moves it, it moves it.  He was sweating a little bit in the end.  He didn't want it to move as much left as that, but it turned out absolutely perfect.  So hands to the sky and thank God for that one.
Q. 4-under today, tied for the lead.  How does that feel?
ANDY SULLIVAN: Good.  Obviously last couple of weeks been a bit frustrating.  Felt like I've prepared really well for the start of the season and to finally see some numbers that you would be quite happy with, it's nice.  Felt like it was only a matter of time before I started to play well again, and it's come this week.
Q. A relief now when the first birdie of the round went in today?
ANDY SULLIVAN: Just like the caddie was saying there, it was just frustrating, the nine, felt like I hit it really good.  Hit a lot of shots close and just didn't quite convert.  Sort of when that one went in, the floodgates opened and I started holing a few more putts.
Just the key there is just to be patient, tomorrow and Sunday.  Feel like I'm swinging it well.  Just give myself loads of chances and eventually they will drop.
Q. Good position going into the weekend, isn't it?
ANDY SULLIVAN: Yeah, definitely.  I think the wind is starting to pick up a little bit, so it will be tricky for the guys this afternoon, but if I'm a couple behind or something going into the weekend, it's a nice position to be in and ready to attack at the weekend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT