100TH OPEN DE FRANCE
July 2, 2016
Andy Sullivan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Describe the second shot on 18.  
ANDY SULLIVAN: I think we had like 186 and my caddie gave me a 7-iron, thought it was a little down and changed to a 6, and hit a soft cut 6 and come out absolutely perfect.  To see it go in was a massive relief.  Obviously the back nine weren't going great but nice way to finish.   
It was incredible, with the little amphitheatre around the green, as well.  Glad I gave them something to cheer about coming up the 18th.   
 Q.  How much are you looking forward to tomorrow, obviously a chance to win The French Open and lovely Ryder Cup points.  
ANDY SULLIVAN: Yeah, just got to go out there and play well.  Two poor swings I hit today and it caught me out big time and I dropped three shots.  Have to go out there and keep playing the way I am, and if the putter keeps going the way it's going, or maybe not use the putter as last day's been, maybe I'll have a chance of winning tomorrow.   
 Q.  Only one place to start, that's the end.  So please talk us through the 18th.  
ANDY SULLIVAN: Yeah, I think we had 186 and my caddie gave me a 7-iron to start with, thought it was a little down, and said no, it's off left, and hit a high soft 6.  Stood up there and hit a high, cutting soft 6 and it landed perfectly.  Yeah, the noise was incredible around 18.  It's a nice way to finish after a few errant holes a couple holes before.   
 Q.  To finish in front of that crowd on this course, the 18th, a formidable hole, it's even better isn't it?  
ANDY SULLIVAN: Absolutely incredible.  Literally just trying to pick one off and finish if we finish with a par great.  To finish with an eagle two is incredible.  You don't stand there and expect to hole that; hit to ten, 15 feet is a good shot.  To see it go in is incredible.   
 Q.  And more important when there's a 7 on the card, as well?  
ANDY SULLIVAN: 100 per cent.  Two poor swings in the middle of that back nine really cost me three shots.  Yeah, to finish with that, really makes dinner taste a lot better.  I know tomorrow, if I play well, I'm going to be in with a chance of having a sniff of it.   
 Q.  You've been hanging around there or thereabouts through out the week but do you fancy a realistic chance?  
ANDY SULLIVAN: Definitely, I thought if I hung in there today, maybe shot 1- or 2-under, I was always going to have a chance.  I feel like the way I'm playing, the last few weeks have not been brilliant.  I feel like the way I've been playing good; the putter's been good.  This week the putter's warmed up a little bit and still feel like I'm playing quite well.  I know what I'm capable of and I know I can go out there and shoot a number tomorrow and get myself up the leaderboard.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT