U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2016
Andy Sullivan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nice to be minus at this time, especially after a day like today.  How do you feel?  Do you feel pretty good?  
ANDY SULLIVAN: I felt like it worked in our favor.  I felt well this morning and I used that momentum to carry on into this afternoon.  Played really well.  I just felt like it worked in our favor.  You could have had a lot of guys that played well yesterday, and had a full day off.  You've got to come back at it.  I felt like I just used that momentum to my advantage and it worked well.   
 Q.  Your second 18 was better than your first 18, right?  
ANDY SULLIVAN: No, of course.  I mean, I think the greens out there, they were short in the morning and they're just getting a little quicker out there.  Enabled me just to get them a little bit closer and I holed a few more putts this afternoon than I did this morning.   
 Q.  You played the last four holes 2 under.  Pretty good.  Tell us how difficult those last four holes are and how you were able to conquer 17 and 18 and finish up so strong.  
ANDY SULLIVAN: Again, I was pretty aggressive all day today.  The course is generally quite soft in terms of Oakmont.  I think that enabled me to be aggressive and hit driver in places that you normally wouldn't hit.   
So, again, just being aggressive and trying to take on the course today.  The majors I've played, I found myself being quite defensive and shying away from flags and trying to hit it to the right areas.  Today, I felt like I played smart but was aggressive at the same time.  I think that's why I've played so well.   
 Q.  The first weekend at a U.S. Open, not just making the cut, but really [inaudible] being part of what's going to happen this weekend.  
ANDY SULLIVAN: Yeah, you know.  I'm going to try to use my experience I have on the European Tour being up there and winning events.  Try and pull on that.   
I know it's going to be a long, hard weekend.  The greens are going to get firmer and quicker and I'll have to be ultra patient out there.  Maybe probably not as aggressive as I've been the first couple days because I have to play a little bit smarter.  But it is what it is and I'm going to thrive on it, up there at the U.S. Open.   
 Q.  Did you see this coming?  Did you think this was in the cards this week?  
ANDY SULLIVAN: Definitely.  I think my results haven't shown that.  I think I felt like I'm doing all the right things leading up to it.  I felt like my game was in really good shape.  I thought it was just a matter of time before it clicked into gear again and good chance to do it in a major.   
 Q.  Where, specifically, might you change the game plan coming down the stretch in what you do?  Where will you be more aggressive?  And where will you be more defensive?  
ANDY SULLIVAN: It all depends on flag positions and how firm the course is playing.  If the fairways are as soft as they are now, they're not going to, you can hit 3 woods instead of drivers because the run-outs will be left.  It's course dependent and weather dependent.  The forecast is good over the weekend.  Me and my caddie will talk about it and see what's what.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT