DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 22, 2015
Andy Sullivan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What are your thoughts on that lovely duel in the sun with Rory McIlroy?  
ANDY SULLIVAN: For me it doesn't really get any better than that maybe.  Maybe one shot better and maybe take him to a playoff.  It was an awesome day.  Gave it everything on that front nine.  Just couldn't quite get the putts to drop on the back nine.  Didn't really hit it close enough again.  Just to come up head-to-head with someone of Rory's quality, it was absolutely awesome and something that will stick with me for a long time going forward.   
 Q.  And there were so many good things from your perspective, as well, weren't there, particularly, as you say, through that front nine?  
ANDY SULLIVAN: Yeah, I felt like -- it's weird.  Every time he holed a putt, I holed one straight after.  It was awesome fun to be in.  I don't know what it was like to watch but it was incredible just to be a part of that front nine.  Then quieted down, which you expect, can't carry on like that.  But being the class performer Rory is, had to birdie 14 or 15 just stay with him and parring both left me just that little bit too much to do.   
 Q.  It was great fun to watch and you must have followed him at least three times after he birdied, you birdied and nip and tuck.  What were your thoughts when he found the water at 17?  
ANDY SULLIVAN: I thought, I'm back in it.  I thought, I've got a chance again.  But I gave him a great teach on my putt.  He got a real good read on my first putt.  I've hit it and left it that far behind, I turned to Mac and said:  "I expect him to hole this."  That's just the quality he is and the world-class performer he is.   
Even 18, if I holed the putt, thought it could go a bit further but that's the way it goes.  I've got so much to take from this week, the way I've played and the way I've handled it, and in a world-class field, first time for me that I've really performed in such a big field.   
 Q.  You're a modest man but would say that you're a world-class performer yourself?  It is three victories this season and doing this on the biggest stage?  
ANDY SULLIVAN: I think I can hold my own now it's safe to say.  For me just trying to do it on a more regular basis.  I know I can do it.  It's just going out and trying to do it more now.   
 Q.  Will you sit back and reflect on 2015 and what a monumental year it's been?  
ANDY SULLIVAN: Yeah, 100 percent.  Next week, spend it with the family and really enjoy going through the year and what I've achieved and looking forward, what I can achieve.  It's been a great week and just looking forward to a week off now, relaxing and enjoying it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT