DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 19, 2015
Andy Sullivan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What are your thoughts on opening with a lovely score like this and sinking that birdie putt at the last?  
ANDY SULLIVAN: It was just great fun out there today.  Me and Martin both played really well, so it was good to have both of us pulling each other along, one get in front of the other, and both finishing both 6-under.   
But swinging it really well on the range and I just said to myself, I'm the only person that can mess this up, really, today.  I just thought go out there and enjoy it like I normally do and be mentally good, probably is going to be in for a good day, and fortunately enough I was.  On the whole, really happy with where we stand.   
 Q.  And that birdie putt at the last, that was pretty special, as well.  
ANDY SULLIVAN: Yeah, it was nice.  Like I say, 30 guys from home went nuts when it dropped in.  But it was a nice little bonus to hole one from that range on the last.   
 Q.  Have they planned all this for a little while?  
ANDY SULLIVAN: Yeah, for sure.  Since sort of the middle of the year.  They have been dying to come and get out of the cold and get into the heat of Dubai.  I'm sure they will be celebrating hard this afternoon.   
 Q.  Does that make it a little tougher for you just to get on with your work, or is it buoying you to have the support?  
ANDY SULLIVAN: I think it's massive.  I think every time they have come and followed me, they have come in droves and that really seemed to help today.  Every putt that went in, they was really cheering out there.  So for me, it's a massive sort of big thing for me to get up for it.  When things are not going so great, they keep shouting out there.  I think it's a big plus for me to have that on my side this week.   
 Q.  Portugal, it's been a monumental year.  Is there now a determination to finish off in style, as well?  
ANDY SULLIVAN: Yeah, for sure.  I think just the way I played all year.  I think it's time for me to kick on and really get myself up there in these big events now and really try and press on.   
Playing with the likes of Martin and playing the way I did today was really, really nice as well.  He's a great guy, as well.  He's really cool out there.  He's really chilled out, so it makes it easy to get along.   
For sure, I think it's time for me to try and kick on and get these big ones knocked off now.   
 Q.  You didn't seem entirely at ease in China for the last couple of weeks, but just regroup when you come to somewhere familiar.  
ANDY SULLIVAN: Yeah, I just got off to a bad start in the last three events, really.  For the first couple of rounds, really struggled and then China last week, found something over the weekend, shot 12-under over the weekend.  So felt pretty confident coming into this week.   
So I've been swinging it really well.  So hopefully, long may that continue for the next three days.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT