THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 6, 2015
Andy Sullivan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ANDY SULLIVAN:   I hit the driver actually great.   I had good iron shots into the first few holes.   And then started coming a bit ‑‑ few loose swings and a couple of mental blips there, and I had it at 72.   If someone said to me that I'd be 10‑under after three rounds, I'd take that from the start of the week.   I like the position I'm in.  
   
 Q.   What was the difference down the stretch?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   I just literally lost a little bit of concentration a couple of times, 14 being the biggest one.   Probably one of the worst golf shots I've ever hit.   I forget what I was doing and just hit that shot.   It happens.   If you lose concentration for a minute, it can bite you.   So I caught it hard today a couple of times.  
   
 Q.   Did you realize you had the lead at that point, at 14?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   No.   I knew I was up there, but, no, I didn't realize I was leading until then.   But I was having great fun out there.   And the fans have been absolutely fantastic.   So I'm taking away a lot with me this week.   
   
 Q.   Is it true that you've not been to the U.S. before the match play?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   No, match play was the first time I'd been in the U.S.   I'm loving it.   
   
 Q.   I know you're playing golf and probably not getting out to see a whole lot?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   Match play was in San Francisco.   I went to see Alcatraz and stuff.   It's a cool city.   I've been out in Columbus here.   So it's cool.   I enjoyed it.   
It's just awesome playing in front of good crowds every week that are cheering you on.   It's nice, you know.   There's always something to keep you going out there.  
   
 Q.   Do you have any designs on trying to get your PGA Tour card?   You could do that, I guess, with a high enough finish or finishes, I guess?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   I haven't thought about it.   I'm just starting to establish myself in Europe.   So to get a card here would be fantastic, but I think I need to establish myself in Europe before I come out here.   But if I get the opportunity, I'd love to have the opportunity to play more here, because it's absolutely fantastic, the best crowds and the best players in the world.   It's brilliant.   
   
 Q.   What did you hit on 14 and 16?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   I had like 85 yards to the flag on 14 and chipped it in the water.   And then on 16, I tried to hit a hard cut 6 and just straight brought it in the water.   
   
 Q.   What do you think of the layout and design of Jack's course?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   I think it's fantastic, because you have to maneuver the ball, draw it, fade it, into the fairway.   Same with the flags and with the greens being quick, you can short side yourself out there.   It's treacherous.   But from the tee looking on, it looks like someone painted it.   It looks good.   It's so cool.   
   
 Q.   How would you approach tomorrow?   How would you embrace that opportunity?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   Just go out and enjoy it.   I've been having fun all week with the fans and my caddie.   Just go out there and have a laugh.   I've been playing well.   A couple of bad holes is all.   And I hopefully get hot and somewhere near the lead on the back nine.  
   
 Q.   Do you anticipate at some point taking your trip to space?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   Not a chance.   No, just not for me.   I'm in space most nights, so I don't really need to visit (laughter).  
   
 Q.   Are you considering one of them?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   No.   It's just not for me that sort of thing.   I have a struggle flying at times, going in a space ship is not my thing.  
   
 Q.   You're not a dare devil?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   No.  
   
 Q.   You seem to be very stress free.   How much is that going to benefit you tomorrow as you chase down guys who have to carry the lead?   And that's a lot of weight?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   Yeah, I'm literally just playing in this tournament.   I've got nothing to lose.   So I'm just going to go out and enjoy myself.   And for me it's worth my whole career to just go out and have fun.   I'm not going to stop doing it now.   I love playing the game of golf and I'm going to show that.  
   
 Q.   Are you doing qualifying Monday?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   No, I'm going to go home next week, see that little girl.   Four weeks away is a long time.   
   
 Q.   The opportunity in Europe already passed to try to get in‑‑  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   No, I think the cut was after St. Jude for your top 60.   I'm 58th at the moment.   Hopefully tomorrow will take care of that.   If it happens, it happens.   
   
 Q.   Does it add anything to it?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   No, I don't put any pressure on myself.   I just want to go out there and have fun and play golf and try and hit the right shots that are right at the time.   That's all I can do, really.   
   
 Q.   Your caddie, Sean, he seems to keep you really relaxed.   How much has he been a factor in you playing as well as you have?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   Well, actually we have been together for four years now, so we've got a real good understanding between each other.   We go around and have a good joke.   But at the same time, it works well between us.   He gives me a kick in the butt when I need it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT