WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
April 30, 2015
Andy Sullivan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You beat Ryan Moore.   
ANDY SULLIVAN:   Yes, it's amazing.   To play well yesterday and lose, it was cold, disappointing.   So today to come back in and get the first win, it's amazing.   
   
 Q.   First time you played any WGC.   How does it compare to your expectation?   Is it totally different than a regular tournament?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   Yes.   The fans are so good.   It's just that little bit more, 64 of the world's best players are here and everyone is getting excited about it.   We're all getting excited about it, anyway.  
It's been absolutely fantastic.   First time to America, and just absolutely loving it, just embracing the whole thing, just enjoying it and playing my golf.  
   
 Q.   It takes some people a while to feel comfortable with Rory and Jordan and all these guys, you looked very comfortable on the range?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   Yeah, I think it makes a difference when you've played with guys a few times and there's nothing that holds any fears out here for me.   If I play my game and play well, I'm always going to have a chance.   
   
 Q.   Your thoughts about tomorrow?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   Yeah, it will be fun.   It will be an all English battle.   I'm really looking forward to it.   It will be fun.   
   
 Q.   Any keys out there today for you?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   Yeah, I just got the putter going.   Yesterday was‑‑ just couldn't hole the putts.   I played just as good as today, just couldn't get any putts going in.   I holed a lot of good putts from 20, 25 feet today and at crucial times, as well.   
   
 Q.   What are your expectations coming into this thing?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   For me it was literally my first walk off championship, so I was just going to see how I fared.   And I think the way I played the last few days, I equipped myself very well against two top guys.   It's good.   It's good fun.   Just enjoying it and can't wait for tomorrow now.  
   
 Q.   Is this the first time in the part of this world?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   First time in America.   I'm actually loving it.   It's just been amazing.  
   
 Q.   What do you think of the course?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   Yeah, I love it.  
   
 Q.   Suits your style?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   Yeah, you have to hit a lot of fairways and greens.   You start missing greens, it gets tricky.   That's the two strong points of my game, fairways and greens.   It should suit me and just get that putter hotter.  
   
 Q.   San Francisco a good city for you, then?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   Yeah, I love it.   I love the city.   All the sights to see, the Golden Gate Bridge and Alcatraz.  
   
 Q.   Did you get out to Alcatraz?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:     Yeah.   It was awesome.   Had the audio tour.   
   
 Q.   Sean Connery voice on?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   I was loving it.   I think I was more Nicklaus Cage.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT