OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 30, 2015
Andy Sullivan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on 11‑under at halfway?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   I'm more happy with today than yesterday really.   I didn't hit the ball as well today.   I was really enjoying my two days, and after yesterday I was going to ask Rory and Martin if we can go play another 18, I enjoyed it that much.     Just to play with Rory today, he played great and just trying to hang onto his coattails down that back nine, really.   
68's a good number and position for the weekend.  
   
 Q.   What you said yesterday, it was one of the rounds of your life, one of the best days of your life.   Presumably felt that much more comfortable.   
ANDY SULLIVAN:   Definitely, I think obviously the more you play with these guys, the more you get used to being around them but they are both nice guys and make it easy for me to feel comfortable out there, so it was great.  
   
 Q.   How much are you looking at them, as well as concentrating on your own job?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   Yesterday I didn't look at a leaderboard just purely on the basis that I was just watching Martin and Rory play shots all day.   Similar today, didn't look at many leaderboards.   
Just found myself admiring Rory and Martin's play, just two of the best days of my life and enjoyed every minute of it.   It's been absolutely fantastic.   Hopefully play a little tomorrow and try to get back with Rory on the Sunday hopefully.   
   
 Q.   You don't concern yourself too much with scores anyway; you know you're playing well.   
ANDY SULLIVAN:   I didn't play as good today but got it around in an honest score which is more satisfying than when you play really well sometimes.   I was really happy with today so hopefully come back tomorrow and recapture Thursday's form and try to set it alight tomorrow.   
Just enjoyed every minute of it.   Loved watching Rory and Martin play today.   Was more concerned about watching them than the leaderboard which is a nice feeling.   Just a little disappointed it's all over to be honest with you.   I was tempted to ask them if they wanted to play another 18 tomorrow afternoon, enjoyed it that much.   But quite happy with the score today considering how I played.   Just great to watch Rory go around and shoot the score he did.   He deserved it, as well.  
   
 Q.   You shot 4‑under around a big golf course, 11‑under par, in a great position and an incredible amount of positives to take out of that.   
ANDY SULLIVAN:   Oh, yeah, massively.   I'm not writing myself off of any chances, but just to back up a really good score with another one, especially the way I played yesterday, pretty flawless yesterday, the way I played.   So it's always tough to back that up.   
But I was really happy.   Dug in there, didn't hit it great and just managed to get it around in a good score and in a really good position for the weekend now, as well.   
   
 Q.   You certainly looked comfortable out there.   Did you get a chance to pick up any tips, some information out of some of these players?  
ANDY SULLIVAN:   I think I need to start going to the gym because giving Rory 60 yards is tough out there but like I say, both fantastic guys and to be fair the reason I probably was so comfortable was they made me like that to be fair; they are so easy to talk to and easy to get on with.   Makes you settle down quite quickly to be fair, so makes a big difference.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT