COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 23, 2013
Andy Sullivan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How happy are you with 5‑under?ANDY SULLIVAN:   Just really happy, played solid, didn't really go at many flags today.   Just made a couple of nice putts out there.   
   
 Q.   Easy, isn't it?  
    ANDY SULLIVAN:   Well, it is when you're playing well.   To be fair, played really nicely today and just didn't really break much of a sweat today.   Just played really steady and just holed a few putts.  
   
 Q.   How familiar are you with the place and the way the wind can blow around here?  
    ANDY SULLIVAN:   Like I said, it's my first time here, so I'm pretty lucky to play in such benign conditions.   But yeah, just have to wait and see, but I've heard it can pump, so see what we're faced with the next few days.  
    I've had a few people saying the course is great and that it can blow and make it awkward and stuff, but for me, 5‑under in the first round, I'm at home and like Qatar.   
   
 Q.   We use the word rust a lot, so is it out of the system with tournaments out of the way?   
    ANDY SULLIVAN:   There was a little bit last week, didn't play great last week, just happy to make the cut sort of thing but coming this week, the game feels sharp so hopefully week have a good week.   
   
 Q.   Game feels sharp, that's a very nice sign?  
    ANDY SULLIVAN:   No, it's great.   Like I say, for me to come off Leopard Creek with the confidence, it's just really good, just go out there and keep doing my thing.   
   
 Q.   I'm sure the answer is obvious, but how important is it to get off to that good start for the season?  
    ANDY SULLIVAN:   Last year didn't go so well, but like I say, takes the pressure off a little bit.   It's massive, really, for me to start with the pressure off and go out and play my game now instead of thinking about other things.  
   
 Q.   And it works on different front because it's good for your game but it's also good financially?  
    ANDY SULLIVAN:   Of course, it's great.   Finishing up, being up there at Leopard Creek and stuff, it's what you practice for to be up there in tournaments and competing with the best.   It's great.  
   
 Q.   Does it mean you come into this event with expectation?   
    ANDY SULLIVAN:   No, not at all.   Never go into any event with any expectation really.   Just go out there and play my golf and see what happens really.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT