THE 147TH OPEN
July 19, 2018
Andy Sullivan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ANDY SULLIVAN: Level par coming in.  Yeah, no, it started off really well today.  If you can get that score on the front nine, and then back nine is playing that little bit tougher.  Wind gets up, obviously, the last four renowned for being extremely tough.  So finished with four pars.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
ANDY SULLIVAN: I obviously missed Sandy in his prime but you can tell he's still got it.  60 years of age, he's fantastic.  It was a real pleasure to watch, to be there, to play one of the greats of the game.  I'm quoting Seve where back in the day when he said if Sandy plays well, we're playing for second.  You can tell why.  He's just got that air of confidence about him, and still strikes the ball fantastic.  I'm pretty sure if he played out in our days, he could still compete.  So it was cool.  It was really cool to watch.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
ANDY SULLIVAN: I think 5, 6 under maybe.  The thing is with these things, even when it's brutally tough, someone always finds a way to go low.  There's probably just more opportunities out there today to do that.  I think front nine you can really get after a score and then back nine it doesn't yield as many chances.  Again, if you shoot anything 71 and below, you're going to be very, very happy coming in this afternoon, especially as winds will pick up a little bit.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
ANDY SULLIVAN: You know, we were aggressive at times.  I think there's times where you have to get the ball in the fairway to get close to the flags, but there are holes where you can be aggressive, get driver out, have a go at it and try to get it up near the green.  Even if you are not getting a great lie, you can still make par.  Those are the holes where it's quite important to the fairway.  Holes like 5, and if people are whacking driver down the right and wedge it up on the green.  I think with the back pin you've got to be coming off the fairways if you want anything close to it.   
There's a couple more like that.  11, if you're not quite where that pin is today and you're in the rough and coming out of it, you've got no chance to get to the pin.  You've got to be in the fairway.  There's times to do it and times there isn't.  Obviously, it offers more options than it normally does in an Open.  Normally, it's pretty regimented around here.  You get in the fairway or you're in trouble.  This week offers a little bit more jammers but different challenges in a way.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT