WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2017
Sam Saunders
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOHN BUSH: Sam, I know it's a special day for you.  If we can get some comments on what this means to you for the plaque dedication.?   
SAM SAUNDERS: That is great.  As I said, Greensboro is a really space place for my granddad and, you know, I've been fortunate enough to go to so many different towns where he has such a great following.   
I can honestly say I don't know that he has more support in any town than Greensboro.  Every time I come here, everybody just so nice and welcoming but they have so many wonderful things to say about him.   
They truly loved him here.   
You know, I think the feeling was mutual.  He loved coming here and they loved having him.  For me to get to be here and be a part of this plaque dedication, have a permanent mark here is really nice.   
JOHN BUSH: Talk a little bit about your game and your goals for this week.   
SAM SAUNDERS: Yeah.  Game is good.  I played well the last few weeks.  Had a nice run -- I played 6 tournaments in a row, had some good performances, finished 8th in the last one up there at Reno, which was nice.  Got me to -- I'm 127th on the FedExCup which I guess that would consider me one of those bubble boys now.   
I need to play solid this week.  But, you know, my goal is not to just get into the FedExCup Playoffs, my goal is to try to win a golf tournament this week.  If I don't and have a solid finish, that will take care of it as a byproduct.  Can't get too hung up on trying to move up a couple spots.  But, obviously, that is of the utmost importance this week.   
Just a matter of the trusting a little bit and knowing the game is there; you've seen some good rounds, you know it's going to come out and happen this week and, also, you're in pretty good shape next year regardless.   
It's not doom and gloom if I were to have a bad week.  Still going to be playing on the PGA TOUR next year.  There's comfort in that.   
I played really solid this year and, you know, these past few weeks I've really been putting myself in a position where I feel like I can win a golf tournament and that's the goal this week.   
I really want to try to win a tournament before the season is over and, if not, you know, see how far I can make in the FedExCup Playoffs.  That will be good goal for me to see how deep I can go and then look forward to, you know, a year next year where I can hopefully really pick a schedule and get back to that goal of trying to win golf tournaments.   
 Q.  You played here before?  
SAM SAUNDERS: I have.  This is the third year now.   
 Q.  You're pretty familiar with the course.  
SAM SAUNDERS: I am.  I played well here.  I can't remember where I finished last year.  I finished 12th the year before.  I've had some good golf here and some good showings and, of course, I'm very comfortable.  The fact that I come in with some pretty good momentum, I'm excited about the week.   
 Q.  You got a week off for the PGA?  
SAM SAUNDERS: Yeah, I was home last week.  That was nice.  I played 6 in a row so a week off wasn't the worse thing in the world.   
 Q.  Some of these guys missed it.  Can you talk about the plaque again?  
SAM SAUNDERS: The plaque is obviously something that's very special to, you know, me and my family and, you know, my grandfather, I know, would be very proud of this because Greensboro was such a special place for him; absolutely loved coming and playing here at Sedgefield.   
The fact that I get to come and play in a PGA TOUR event where he competed and played is really special and really glad that he'll have a permanent mark here and I'll try to make sure I take a glance at it every time I come through the 9th hole here.  Very special.   
JOHN BUSH: Anything else?  Sam, thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT