ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 22, 2014
Sam Saunders
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SAM SAUNDERS:   It's tough.   It's still swirling.   It's not crazy firm yet, but the wind is tough and there were some good pins today.  
   
 Q.   How many times have you played it?  
SAM SAUNDERS:   Hundreds.   Thousands.   I would think close to a thousand, I guess.   More than that, actually.  
   
 Q.   Played this more than any other course?  
SAM SAUNDERS:   Yes.   
   
 Q.   You said you were able to keep it together.   You carded a 71.   Pretty good spot going into Sunday.   How were you able to maintain?  
SAM SAUNDERS:   I just wasn't on towards the end of the round there.   I got a little nervous out there.   
But that's normal; good nervous.   But just hung in there.   I was really proud of my composure today.   When I hit a bad shot I didn't let it bother me.   I made a few bogeys, but also made some birdies to offset it and just hung tough.  
   
 Q.   You said you had some nerves.   This is a course that you said you played a thousand times.   Did that help you, because you're so familiar with this layout at all?  
SAM SAUNDERS:   I think it does.   But also at the same time I've got a lot of faces out there that I know, and a lot of people pulling for me, which is great.   I'm just enjoying the experience and trying to just play my game.   And I'm doing a pretty good job of that.  
Like I said, I really am just proud of the way I hung in there, despite not hitting some great shots.   I really stayed calm out there and bounced back every time I made a mistake.  
   
 Q.   For a lot of guys the experience is getting to interact with Arnold Palmer.   Obviously you get to do that all the time.   How different is that for you having family members watching you?  
SAM SAUNDERS:   It's great.   It's really the only tournament of the year where my entire family can be here.   My wife and kids will be with me all year long.   But for my parents, my sisters, brothers‑in‑law, aunts, uncles, grandparents on both sides, it's really neat.   And I think they enjoy it as much as I do.  
Yesterday when I got done I sat up in the stands with them in my parents' backyard and just watched golf.   That's what I've done since I was a kid here.  
Getting to spend that time with them is great.  
   
 Q.   Right now you're inside the top 15, which would be your best finish at this tournament.   What mindset are you carrying into Sunday?  
SAM SAUNDERS:   I'm going to go out there tomorrow and try to shoot as low as I can.   Obviously the guys are pulling out there a little bit ahead of me, but you never know what's out there.   If I get hot tomorrow and post something good, I'll see what happens.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT