BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 3, 2018
Sam Saunders
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  13 points.  Nice round.  
SAM SAUNDERS: It was a good solid day out there.  Drove the ball really well and made a few more putts today than I did yesterday.  Still left a few out there.  But it's a fun format and enjoy giving myself as many birdie chances as possible.   
 Q.  Obviously a course and a tournament that you play well at.  Two top 10 finishes in your last two starts here.  What is it about this course and this format that you love?  
SAM SAUNDERS: Well, living in Colorado for about six years, it really helps with the whole playing at altitude thing.  And I really enjoy having to think about shots out here and having to feel them out.  Because you are just not going to get the number right.  It's not math out here.  You can do a lot of math and you try to have your best guess but so much of it is feeling out the shot and what you think is going to be playing.  So I think my experience living there and playing at altitude helps out a lot.  Other than that, I just really enjoy this golf course and this tournament.   
 Q.  You're not the bubble boy but you're as close as you can be in terms of the FedExCup standings.  Talk a little bit about your goals over these past few weeks.  
SAM SAUNDERS: My goal is to try to win this tournament this weekend.  That's kind of it.  Making the playoffs will be a byproduct of that.  Obviously it's hugely important to me.  The FedExCup Playoffs it's what we play for out here.  It's what the PGA TOUR is all about.  And I'm excited to have the opportunity.  But like I said, more importantly right now I'm excited to have the opportunity to win this weekend.  And that would be the first of my career obviously.  And I like the position I'm in so far.   
 Q.  What will you take from your round today that you think can really help you this weekend?  
SAM SAUNDERS: I'm just going to keep doing exact same stuff I'm doing.  I'm playing aggressive.  I'm hitting a lot of drivers out there.  And trying to -- it's easy to shake off birdies out here.  That's what I've been able to do really well or shake off bogeys, excuse me.  You make a bogey and it's not the end of the world.  And just keep giving yourself chances for birdie and that's what I'll do this weekend.   
 Q.  Did you have a lot of experience playing Stableford before playing in this tournament?  
SAM SAUNDERS: No, four years ago, my first time I played here was the first time I ever played that format.  It's a lot of fun.  It's something different.  But at the end of the day the guy that plays the best golf is still going to win the tournament.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT