NBA DRAFT 2019
June 20, 2019
Jarrett Culver
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Could you talk about your feelings about being drafted by the Suns?
JARRETT CULVER: I'm very excited just to make it to the NBA.  I'm very blessed to be in the position I'm in, and thankful for the opportunity.
Q. Lubbock, Texas, I'm showing my age here, but I remember Buddy Holly being the most famous celebrity coming out of Lubbock.  Any familiarity with the music?  And on a more basketball note, you're used to playing in hot climates.  Going to Phoenix must be a natural fit for you?
JARRETT CULVER: Yeah, Buddy Holly, he's an icon down there.  His statue is still there.  Just for me coming out of Lubbock and making it to the NBA, it's a blessing, like I said.  I mean, it doesn't get any better than that.  I'm not expected to make it here out of Lubbock, Texas, and I'm glad I could do something for my city.
Q. What kind of legacy did Coach Beard help you leave at Texas Tech that can now help you at this level?
JARRETT CULVER: The legacy he left, because he's a winner.  Everything he does, it's about winning.  Every move he makes, it's about winning.  He kind of instilled that in to me to be a winner.  It takes a lot to be a winner.  You've got to work hard, you've got to be dedicate and you've got to put others before you sometimes.  At the end of the day, he taught me to be a winner.  I'll be forever thankful for that and carry that on to wherever I go.
Q. What thoughts were going through your mind after your name was called?
JARRETT CULVER: First thing I did was just thank God.  I wouldn't have got here without God, and the opportunity I had is truly a blessing.  My thought was I'm glad my family was there, and I'm excited that my dream became reality today.
Q. You potentially get to play alongside Devin Booker.  What about learning from him?
JARRETT CULVER: I'm very excited to play in the league.  He's a great player.  There are a lot of things going on, so I don't know who I'm going to be playing beside yet.  But I'm just glad to be there.
Q. Do you have a dream car?
JARRETT CULVER: I don't have a dream car.  I've never really been into cars like that.  I know I'm going to have to eventually get one, but I don't have a dream one.
Q. You entered Texas Tech as I think a three-star recruit.  You weren't really a lottery talent.  Did that kind of fuel you, people discounting you along the way?
JARRETT CULVER: Yeah, this has been my whole life, and that's why I play with a chip on my shoulder.  I've got a lot to prove and I take the doubters and haters to every workout and work even harder.  There's a lot of motivation out there, and I've got to make sure I stay motivated.  That's a piece of what they do.  That's why I stay motivated.
Q. Earlier today you had tweeted out "God has got a blessing with my name on it," #draft day.  Were you at all nervous about sending out that tweet or was it just showing how confident you were in knowing you were going to hear your name?
JARRETT CULVER: I wasn't nervous at all.  Those are lyrics right there, "God has got a blessing with my name on it."  I listen to that song every morning, so I tweeted it out this morning.  It kind of speaks volumes to me just because whatever God has for me, wherever I go, wherever I land and whatever happens in the future, it's my blessing with my name on it.  So I just tweeted it out.  I was very thankful for that.
Q. Is it weird to wear the Suns not knowing that you're probably playing for Minnesota coming up?
JARRETT CULVER: Yeah, it's kind of different.  I'm just happy to be in the NBA and have this opportunity.  It's a lot of work to be done.  So wherever I end up, I've got to stay true to myself and give whatever team I'm playing for everything I've got.
Q. I was wondering what kind of teammate was [Davide] Moretti, and do you think you'll have maybe one day a chance to play in the NBA?
JARRETT CULVER: He for sure has a chance to play in the NBA.  Just the person he is and his work ethic.  Our relationship this year has grown so much.  That's one of my closest friends on the team.  We worked out every day together.  We worked hard.  We was always hanging out.  We talk to each other.  We still talk to this day.  That's like a lifelong brother to me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT