FUBON LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 9, 2016
Ha Na Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
HA NA JANG: Hello everybody.   
THE MODERATOR: Well, here she is, your 2016 Fubon LPGA championship winner, Ha Na Jang.   
HA NA JANG: Hello.  (Applause.)   
THE MODERATOR: Third win of the year.   
HA NA JANG: Yes.   
THE MODERATOR: And your first one came earlier this year also in the rain.  So you like rain, right?   
HA NA JANG: Yes, my first win weather is rainy, exactly same like that.  That's why I like it raining on the golf course, too.  Yeah, that is why, uh-huh.   
 Q.  What was the dance that you did today?  Was the inspiration for that?  
HA NA JANG: It was like my second win long time ago, eight months ago, Singapore.  After Singapore's not really good happening.  That's why little small dancing.   
Yesterday my agent and all the people text me say just try small celebration.  Please just you try it.  That's why I got try a little more small one.   
But I think it's really good.  Celebration is a little small but looks like a little bigger.  It's like dancing like, I like it, I like it.  Like that.  So happy, right?   
 Q.  How about playing and Shanshan today?  Were you nervous at all?  
HA NA JANG: Every hole.  Every hole exactly is that true.  First of all it's pretty good, but I think front nine is really good shot, too.  Then really aggressive I try it, but my first bogey is hole No. 7.   
And then after hole No. 7 very nervous every hole and every shot.  Feng Shanshan, she's play pretty good today.  Bad weather, but she made 6-under par.  Really surprise.   
She make birdie hole No. 15; chip in.  It's like, Oooo, awesome.  Like that.   
After 15 hole I am very nervous, but I am trying talk about myself just be patient.  Just you play.  Don't think about other player.  Just play.  Pretty good, yeah.   
THE MODERATOR: Then how about the importance of the approach shot on 18, knocking that to about ten feet.   
HA NA JANG: The last hole, No. 18, on the tee, I just say before it's very close to the hole.  I want to hit 3-wood but just more confidence my driver.  That's why I got to hit the driver and little miss right side.   
Then I think was 194 to the pin but I want to try just lay up and hitting more (indiscernible), 105 yard shot.  That's why I got to hit the third shot like pitching wedge.   
And then just on the green, on the green.  Just on the green is fine.  Par is good score.  Then really good shot.  Then, okay, I'm finish.  Like that.  It's really happy.  Yeah.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  You save a lot of pars today.  How important about that?  
HA NA JANG: I think it's hole -- okay, from hole No. 1, pretty good hole.  I make three birdie.  Really confidence, too.   
But hole No. 7 I got to hit just more quickly and I really big miss.  I got to hit 9-iron but really fast shot.  First bogey.   
After hole No. 7 was very nervous my mind.  I say, Okay, let's go par.  Par is good score.  Just par is good score.  But a little miss hole No. 10, 11, 12.  Every hole is a little miss.   
Really solid chipping.  As I said before my chipping is pretty good first time my life.  That's why every par is good score, because raining so bad.  So that's these why every hole is par.   
 Q.  Why did it take you eight months to get the third win?  
HA NA JANG: I think after Singapore was too much thinking.  Eight month is like think about is not really long, not really.  Just normal.   
Probably starting win more this week, but after this week I think more win, I can do this.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT