FUBON LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 8, 2016
Ha Na Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: You tied the tournament course record, 62, and someone else shot 62 today, and Inbee Park in 2014.  So how do you feel?   
HA NA JANG: I don’t know how I did it.  I don’t think about my score today.  Just watching on hole No.  15, the par 3, I looked at the scoreboard, Really?  I’ve played 8-under par today?   
Really was trusting my play today.  Weather was so bad.  Starting hole No. 16 just try be patient for three hole.  That's why really the score.  I feel so happy today.   
THE MODERATOR: I spoke to your caddie for a second after the round, and he said there were even a few putts you may have missed.  You may have even shot even better.   
HA NA JANG: Uh-huh.   
THE MODERATOR: So when did you realize I guess that you had shot 62 or shot the course record?   
HA NA JANG: I mean, today in morning just try 5- or 6-under par is the target today, but front nine fairways really good and hit pretty straight my ball.  Greens really soft.  More aggressive, try more, hit the flag.   
That's why more the birdie I got a chance.  Caddy always say, Ha Na, just be patient.  You great player.  You great player.  Just be patient.  Just hitting straight.  That's why it's good score.  Really good help for me the caddie today.   
THE MODERATOR: So what did you eat for breakfast today and will you eat the same thing for breakfast tomorrow?   
HA NA JANG: Yesterday I ate breakfast in golf course.  I mean, today breakfast in hotel.  Probably same place.  And then I been it's eating one rice, fried rice, and then one fried egg and two potato and two watermelon.   
THE MODERATOR: Does anyone have any questions for Ha Na?   
 Q.  Some of your birdie is very long distance.  Which one do you think is the best one?  
HA NA JANG: Best one is hole No. 16.  Yeah, 16.  Like really thing is my tee shot.  Just think about just par score No. 16, and then my putt is like 11 meters from my ball to the hole.  Just tried, Okay, just (indiscernible) speed.   
But my impact is very solid.  That's why inside the hole.  And then looks like really happy is my face probably.   
 Q.  You're now leading by six strokes.  Is that very comfortable?  
HA NA JANG: I think it's not really comfortable because tomorrow weather is pretty good.  (Indiscernible.)  Because I try more just be patient.  I don't want think about another score, player, just play myself.  That's why.   
THE MODERATOR: Anyone else?   
 Q.  Personal best 62?  
HA NA JANG: Um, it's my best score 11-under par, but it's not tournament.  Just practice round.  Tournament best score is 10-under par.   
THE MODERATOR: New best score or had you shot 10-under before today in a tournament?   
HA NA JANG: First time in a tournament, yeah.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
HA NA JANG: It's very comfortable.  Really every shot is really comfortable and a great shot, so...   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT