ANA INSPIRATION
March 31, 2016
Ha Na Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great round today, obviously.  How did you feel?  It looked like you were very comfortable out here today.
HA NA JANG: Yeah, because it's the third time I've played at ANA, so I'm more comfortable right now, but because my friends coming, a lot of people coming this week, my uncles, my family and my friends come, too, so very comfortable.  More comfortable, and then concentration, too, so very good round today.
Q. I saw you have a lot of family here?
HA NA JANG: Yes.
Q. You had a big group?
HA NA JANG: Yes, my fan club comes, too.
Q. From where?
HA NA JANG: Korea.
Q. So they're all coming over from Korea?
HA NA JANG: Yeah.
Q. How many people?
HA NA JANG: My fan club is maybe five or six coming, and then my uncles and my cousin, so maybe four or five people, so like 10, 12, so very concentration right now, very comfortable.
Q. What part of your game was the best today?
HA NA JANG: Today I think the front nine is really good, the first hole, second hole, very easy to birdie, and then the back nine the first hole, and then the second hole is very easy to start, so very fun today, yes.
Q. You looked like you hit a couple shots off line, kind of let go of the club.  What was happening there?
HA NA JANG: Sometimes things just happen on the golf course.  Sometimes a little quick in my swing because more pressure and then more thinking on the tee.  It's okay, sometimes happening.  It's no problem.  I don't want to think about it.
Q. Do you feel that you're on top of your game still?
HA NA JANG: Yes.
Q. And then you can win a major with the way you're playing?
HA NA JANG: Yeah, I think a major is very important in my life, but I'm just trying to every week, every tournament, just same thinking, just very important every week, so I'm just playing golf, very fun, playing golf, not thinking at all.  I'm just playing golf, yeah.
Q. I think the American fans love your style so much but they want to see more of it, and you were kind of -- you weren't sure about it.  How do you feel now?
HA NA JANG: I'm just four or five days stay here this week, and then people say to me, you're really good, you're a really good player, you're really fun, your celebration really good, you're really fun.  Show me the little dance.  It's really fun this week, really enjoy.  Yeah, really, really happy is my mind today.
Q. So will we see the fist pumps and the dancing more?
HA NA JANG: I think this week is really not celebration, so just try to normal, just my style, just sometimes.  Really good shot sometimes a fist pump.
Q. We saw some fist pumps today?
HA NA JANG: Yeah, a little bit.  Yeah, just baby.
Q. Just baby pumps?
HA NA JANG: Yeah.
Q. Have you spoken to In Gee this week?  You played right behind her.  Have you guys had a chat?
HA NA JANG: Yes, I say hi today in the morning to In Gee, and yesterday, too.  There's no problem right now.
Q. Everything is okay?
HA NA JANG: Yeah, it's okay, no problem, yes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT