JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 15, 2016
Ha Na Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Happy to be joined in the media center by had a Ha Na Jang, two-time winner this year.  Had a in a won the last time out, another great celebration.
HA NA JANG: Yes.
THE MODERATOR: What are you looking forward to most this week in Phoenix?
HA NA JANG: I'm just every week very, very enjoy my golf life.  I try to really enjoy my playing.  So I'm just, my target in Phoenix, Top-10 something, not really too much thinking.  So I just be patient every day.  So it's very easy, yeah.
THE MODERATOR: How much confidence do you have in your game right now with a couple victories this early in the year?
HA NA JANG: I think Singapore was like just 60 percent, very comfortable in the conversation.  But this week, too much practice last week and I go to school, so a little busy, so a little more remind my thinking.  I think 70 percent right now, very comfortable in the conversation, too.
Q. So I know you've already surpassed your goals, I guess for the year.  You wanted to win twice, you said?
HA NA JANG: Yeah.
Q. So have you set new goals and what are those?
HA NA JANG: So this season, my target is like two wins, but right now, two wins very fast.  I'm a little remind my targets, like two more wins in this year.  So I'm just -- but I don't want to think about the score and another win something, and another thing happening.  I'm just playing every week, so it's very fun.  I want a little more fun playing golf and then yeah, that's it, yes.
Q. You're not already having fun?
HA NA JANG: I'm having fun every week and every day.
Q. What do you think of this course, and also, do you like the dry heat better than the humid?
HA NA JANG: Oh, yes, better than -- definitely better than humid.  I'm second time this golf course.  It's a really nice golf course and then looks like a little different, the California style, the California style like a little more the elevation and then tree and a little humid.  But this golf course are really dry and fairways are very firm.  The greens are very firm, too.
And then I like a little more dry area, and then my ball, distance more, and long distance, I like it.  I think it's really good, this golf course and this area, too.
Q. So there was a little drama two weeks ago in Singapore and then when you got back.  Can you tell us where you are with that situation, and how you feel about the reaction from the incident with the escalator?
HA NA JANG: In Singapore, yeah, I think three weeks a little tired I feel.  But I like the town of Singapore, the area, because the food, Asian food, and Singapore, it looks like the entertainment, it's really fun week, two weeks ago.
Then my fan club is coming in Singapore, come from Korea, for a little bit more fun and every day enjoy dinner and something, talking.  Then really enjoy it.  But I'm just a little more focused my golf, and then two weeks ago in Singapore, every day is like first round, second round, really good score.  And then every day is eagles, like two weeks ago, it's very unbelievable, it's very exciting.
Then final round is really good.  Very strong finish, too.  No. 18, making eagle, it was a little surprise.  I don't know how I did it.  Really happy two weeks ago, every day.
Q. So what happened with InGee Chun with the luggage?
HA NA JANG: Oh, sorry, I don't want to talk about InGee, a little dangerous question right now.  A little import in Korea, very import -- we already explained a lot of times in Korea.
Q. You've already what?
HA NA JANG: We explained what kind of situation, we explain to Korean media.
Q. Could you explain it for us, just tell us what you said in Korea?
HA NA JANG: Sorry about that.
Q. Can you speak just about your samurai celebration, and then your Beyonce celebration, just how much fun are you having with this?
HA NA JANG: I'm trying, first my celebration is samurai.  But I try, just samurai is a style, but not samurai style.  It's like, you know, like very similar the fencing, sword.  The Korea style of fencing.  But I want to talk to you guys more easy, like more easy, like talking like samurai style.  But in Korea, it's a very big issue because a lot of people are asking for me, are you trying Japan style, like celebration.
So I go back to Korea after and so many like questions, you try the Japan-style celebration.  I say, no, just name is like samurai style but I'm trying to create a style, like more easy, talking to you guys, like samurai style is not Japanese style.  It's a little, it's hard on my heart every week, it's a little sad it's happening.  And then after Singapore, too, I tried Beyonce but a little problem with InGee like same week in Singapore.
Then I go back to Korea after Singapore and then every, it's like any person and player is asking for me, are you really bad girl and you really, too much reaction, too much celebration, too much fun, looks really bad.  So I'm now every day crying in my room last night, last week, a little sad.  So yeah, a lot happening in Korea, it's a big issue.
But I don't want to think about another person, because my style is a celebration, big celebration.  And I want to try more fun and then more play to enjoy my game, so that's it, yeah.
THE MODERATOR: Appreciate the time.  Best of luck this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT