HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 6, 2016
Ha Na Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Like to welcome in the 2016 winner of the HSBC Women's champions, Ha Na Jang.  First off, congratulations.
HA NA JANG: Thank you very much.
THE MODERATOR: Just give us a little insight of how you're feeling right now, your second LPGA Tour victory.
HA NA JANG: It feels like very excited right now, very comfortable this week, maybe after this tournament, too, really enjoy.  Target in 2016 is two wins, but right now, I'm there, so going to change my target from two more wins, so very comfortable right now.
THE MODERATOR: So your goal coming into this year was two wins.  You're five events in, two wins.
HA NA JANG: Two wins.
THE MODERATOR: So you have to reassess some goals, and you're leading Player of the Year race, Race to the CME Globe and Money List.
HA NA JANG: Yeah, it's really nice.
THE MODERATOR: Are those types of things on your mind, as well, to be the best on the Tour?  I know you've always said your rookie year was a little rough, you wanted to win, but you're right in the hunt now to be the best in the world.
HA NA JANG: Maybe last year's rookie year -- other Korean players -- then too much thinking when I'm playing golf.  But a little change in the winter training, 2015, so a little more comfortable, just be patient and I'm playing really easy the first tournament in the Bahamas, very good.  More comfortable and first win, very comfortable and then Top-10, Top-10, more comfortable, very exciting.
THE MODERATOR: Now let's just talk about you going out in style today, eagle on the last hole.  Were you thinking just go for it, was that the thought process there?
HA NA JANG: No. 18 on the second shot, I just try right side of bunker my target, was a little bit miss.  I say, don't hit the tree, don't hit the tree, just go on the green please and perfect finish, it's amazing.  My mind is like, oh, my God, this is my shot.  It's amazing.
THE MODERATOR: Now you're projected to go to No. 5 in the world with this win, such a strong field here.  You're just behind Inbee as the second-ranked South Korean in the world.  Let's talk about the Olympics, the International Crown, I know those are huge goals for you, we've talked about that.  This is a huge step in that direction.
HA NA JANG: Yes.
THE MODERATOR: What are your goals in terms of rankings?  Are you looking for No. 1?  Are you looking for No. 2?  What are your thoughts there?
HA NA JANG: Just every day, I'm thinking -- I don't want to think about the Olympics and the ranking, everything.  I'm playing golf every week and every tournament I enjoy, but I'm a little more -- the targets, I think about it.  But I don't want to think about ranking and Olympics and International Crown, just I want more enjoy playing golf, no pressure.
Q. Your putting today was just amazing.  What do you put that down to?  Have you done something different?  Was it the way you read the greens?  Was it a confidence thing?  You just seem to be rolling them in from everywhere?
HA NA JANG: I think it's first round and then third round, is really big miss every hole the putt.  But a little more practicing after yesterday's round and trying to compare to impact and feeling, but very comfortable.  Before my putting, No. 13 and 12 -- it's amazing after No. 12 and 13, it's like, what is that -- very nervous.
I think about just space, No. 12, No. 18.  I think not much think about it.  I think it's really good, the score, too.
THE MODERATOR: How long was the putt on No. 14?
HA NA JANG: Maybe 50 feet, 17 yards.
Q. Can you just talk us through when you made the bogey, what was going on in your mind?  Were you thinking it that your momentum would be affected and how important was it then to make those birdies after this?
HA NA JANG: So after No. 9, No. 9 is an amazing putt, too.  No. 10 is like just a little more -- too much thinking.  Just 10 and 11, just two holes, but sometimes happening, playing golf on the golf course.  Then I try more birdie, birdie, but I don't think -- after No. 11, just be patient, just be patient, it's okay.
Just two more birdie chances and then 12 and then 18 is the par 5.  So just be patient, be patient and then really good No. 12 is a really good -- just be patient after No. 11, so it's very comfortable, 12, 13, 14, birdie after -- inside my mind, more comfortable, comfortable.  Don't think about other players and score.
Q. You mentioned before that you and Phatlum are good friends.
HA NA JANG: She is a really good friend.
Q. I assume you had a comfort level in the last flight together.  Did you have a friendly wager and spur each other on?  At some points it looked like you were having a private match play.
HA NA JANG: Pornanong, she's very close, my friend.  I speak Thai, too, just a little bit.  But sometimes I speak Thai, like, what did you eat last night.  Today's question, how old are you.  Looks like very young, like really amazing age, 1989.  But on every hole, I don't think about Pornanong.  Just playing my golf.  That's it.
THE MODERATOR: How did you learn Thai?
HA NA JANG: I went to train six times in Thailand.
Q. You mentioned a lot about feeling comfortable out there.  Just looking at your game and how it's improved, because you've had a lot of second place finishes last year, and now you already have two wins, and we're not even a quarter of the way through.  So what in particular with your swing were you working on in the off-season that makes you -- contributed to you feeling comfortable on the course?
HA NA JANG: I went to training in L.A., new coach, and a little change in my swing.  Think about last year, just one-plane swing, but I try more compact to impact, more simple my swing, little change.  So it's more better than last year's, my shot.  It's more like I try every shot, a fade or something, draw, and low ball, high ball, it's very easy right now and then more comfortable in my swing right now.  Because rush, too much thinking in my swing, always on the golf course, Ha Na a little more slow, slow, slow.  Right now just think about my finish -- so really different.
Q. So that would also free you up with your putting, because your putting is so good.
HA NA JANG: Yes, exactly.
Q. Because I think you're the third Korean to win this event, and they have both been world No. 1, so it looks like you're in a good kind of going the right direction.  Does like that goal and being close to it, does that scare you a little bit, that you're winning so much, so quickly?  How do you feel about that?
HA NA JANG: No, not really.  Never.  (Laughter).  Everything's no afraid.  Afraid people, no, just my playing game.  So just enjoy my life every week, every day.
THE MODERATOR: Are you afraid of anything?
HA NA JANG: No.  (Laughter).
THE MODERATOR: Spiders?
HA NA JANG: A little scared of mosquito bites.  (Laughter).
Q. Could we have the length of your putts, please and could you please talk us through the 18th and 11th, I want to know about your second shot?
HA NA JANG: First hole is like little pressure in my mind, but just be patient with every shot.  But then hit very solid shot, second shot.  I hit 7-iron in the right side of the flag -- like eight yard on the right side.  I just think about 2-putt, Ha Na, just speed, just speed.  And ball is like straight inside of hole.  Just I'm very comfortable after No. 1.
Q. What was the length of your putts?
HA NA JANG: No. 7, the par 5, was very amazing the bunker shot, I like it, very solid bunker shot.  Then No. 9 is like I hit driver perfect, miss a little second short, it's a little short of the flag and putter is just think about speed, too.  Then ball is inside of hole, it's amazing, yeah.
No. 11 is like too much thinking my shot.  On the tee, it's very difficult, the hole is very narrow.  I try more strong shot and then very big miss right side of fairway.  Then hit pitching wedge really, like, what is that, very top shot, second shot No. 11 and I hit more fairway, really good save, no bogey.
No. 12, easy birdie.  No. 12 hit 205 front and I hit little fast shot and then right side of the green and then chipping 56.  Then three yards past the hole, little downhill putt.  And it's more comfortable and I just make the birdie.
Then No. 13 is like I just on the green, I think about just on the green.  But it's a really good shot, 30 feet.  No. 13 is really good.
No. 14 is like 50 feet, it's an amazing putt.  Then No. 14, easy.
No. 18 is very easy.  I'm just, right side of my bunker is my target, just a little missed shot but my ball is straight at the flag.  Oh, nice.  Very easy eagle, yes.  Just two yards left side of flag, yes.
THE MODERATOR: Six feet?
HA NA JANG: Yeah, two yards.
THE MODERATOR: And that was 3-wood?
HA NA JANG: Yeah, I hit 3-wood, yes.
THE MODERATOR: What was your yardage there?
HA NA JANG: 94 front and a little into the wind.
THE MODERATOR: We didn't hear about the dance.  We heard it was a Super Bowl performance inspired?
HA NA JANG: Yes.
THE MODERATOR: Was that the first Super Bowl you watched?
HA NA JANG: Second time.  Last year in Bahamas, other people are watching TV.  Like, what happened, I talk to other people, like what happened right now.
You don't see the Super Bowl right now?  Oh, really, I'm going to try.  So I see the Super Bowl, really nice.  Then I'm watching maybe three weeks, last month maybe, I'm watching the TV and really good music with Beyonce, and watching Beyonce, she's really nice.  I try, I think about, like I'm trying to dance after my putt, it's really good today.
THE MODERATOR: The single ladies' dance.
HA NA JANG: Yeah, single ladies.  I'm single right now, too.  (Laughter).
Q. A couple of the guys haven't given the full details, but the PGA and LPGA said they might work together and have some co-sanctioned events and whatever.  What are your thoughts about playing in tournaments with the men?
HA NA JANG: I played in Korea maybe four years ago, but a really bad play.
THE MODERATOR: Did you play next to the guys?
HA NA JANG: Yeah, six down, so I'm just a little bad thinking right now.  But I want to play.  I want to play the PGA player.  I'm watching the Masters this year, so I love it, maybe I want to try.
THE MODERATOR: Say you were paired with somebody, who is your favorite player on the PGA you would maybe want to play with as your teammate?
HA NA JANG: I like Adam Scott.  (Laughter).
THE MODERATOR: Thank you so much for coming in.  Congratulations again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT