HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 5, 2016
Ha Na Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Wonderful round of 68, and it could have been even lower out there today.  
HA NA JANG: Yesterday, sometimes a little miss green but today just like one miss is really fantastic right now.  A couple more shots like yesterday, after the round I practice on the range, so it was really good today.   
Then the putter is a little bit, missed it, but okay, just one more day, it's no problem.   
 Q.  You have so much energy; you are living up to your monicker, the Hanagizer.  Who were your fans with the flags today?  
HA NA JANG: This is my fan club coming from Korea, because I'm very more the power and more energy and more enjoy today, so it was really good fun.   
 Q.  You're leading by one, a big day tomorrow.  
HA NA JANG: Maybe tomorrow, really enjoy the game because my good friend is Pornanong.  She's really close, my friend.  Just keep simple tomorrow, same every day, not too much thinking because I know how to play and score, just simple.   
 Q.  Do you know that you have now played 40 holes without a bogey at Serapong?  
HA NA JANG: Fantastic.  I think today and this week is really nice, feeling very comfortable and really good play.   
 Q.  Did the winds die down and make it a little easier?  
HA NA JANG: But the front nine is very strong into and helping wind, too, and No. 1 is facing into the wind, so too much thinking on the front nine.  But it's no problem, just be patient and just think about like just on the fairway and the green, it's very easy play today.   
 Q.  You go into the final round tomorrow with a one-shot lead.  Will you still play aggressive tomorrow?  
HA NA JANG: Maybe it's a little bit more.  But just a little more confidence and then very comfortable in my mind and pride in myself.  I talk to every hole in myself, just keep going, Ha Na, don't think about it anymore, just keep playing golf.   
 Q.  You look very comfortable out there on the course and with the media.  How do you destress?  
HA NA JANG: If I'm really bad after, I'm just singing inside my mind.  Sometimes I'm really angry like if I have a bad shot.  But I don't want to think about it.  I just try to think about the future, no problem, it's very comfortable every day.   
 Q.  What is the key to tomorrow?  
HA NA JANG: I think tomorrow just be patient every hole but I don't want to think about another player and another score.  Just keep going with my play, just simple my thinking, too.  Maybe better than today, tomorrow.   
 Q.  How do you shut out everything and focus?  
HA NA JANG: I'm just always I think very comfortable -- construction, too, no problem with my shots.  I just remind, my best shot, and very easy my swing, too.  I trust myself, it's no problem.   
My nickname is Enjoy Ha Na, Energizer Ha Na, it's really good, my nickname, too.  I want to show every day, I enjoy playing golf, yeah, it's really good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT