HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 4, 2016
Ha Na Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What a start to the year for you, you've already had a win and you're just in fantastic form?
HA NA JANG: First round and second round, two eagles, so I feel very comfortable.  On every hole, I be patient every hole, so it's no problem this week.
Q. You were laughing when you came off, we thought you might have been going bush today because you're in the camouflage gear.
HA NA JANG: Singapore golf course looks like jungles, so I try like jungles shirts.
Q. You've been working on your new celebration dance, just anticipation for Sunday?
HA NA JANG: But it's top secret but I'll show a little bit, like a little hint, like is really good goal and looks like very sexy, and top secret.
Q. Bringing a whole new element to the tournament.
HA NA JANG: I'm trying (giggles).
Q. You make a lot of birdies, you're one of those adrenaline players, when you're on a roll, you're go, go, go and the adrenaline pumps hard?
HA NA JANG: Today I'm very comfortable on the front nine and I'm talking to myself, don't do too much thinking hand in a, just be patient, a lot of birdies, two more days, so more concentration, you can do it.
Q. What did you hit on No. 4?
HA NA JANG: No. 4, the par 5, hit 3-wood on the green, very easy to birdie.  It looks like birdie putt.  Feels like birdie putt, too.
Today No. 7, second shot, just front edge and 17 yards for eagle putt, that's really unbelievable with my feel.  Very exciting.
Q. And you obviously get very excited when you play, don't you, very upbeat player.  Does golf ever get you down?  Does golf ever make you feel miserable?
HA NA JANG: No, I'm always like, I don't think about it, the score, and just play another.  So I just play every day, so I don't think about it, like is it really bad day.  Just par is fine, par is fine, but I don't want to miss, so I'm just trying, no miss, Ha Na, and just tell myself, no miss, no miss, just par is okay, birdie the next day and three more days, yesterday, right.
Q. What other thing makes you as happy as golf does?
HA NA JANG: Really happy like Bahamas, albatross.  Like huge gallery and very louder, like oohhh, I like it, very happy.  And then very quiet, playing golf is like, mmmmm, it's okay.
Q. You golf the big galleries?
HA NA JANG: Yeah, big galleries.
Q. What about outside of golf, what makes you happy?
HA NA JANG: I like listening to music and I'm just in my room, I always dance myself, looking for my like YouTube, I try something, I want to try like practice little singer, dancing.  So always inside my room, and watching the YouTube and always dance myself.
Q. Did you dance as a child?
HA NA JANG: No, just fun.
Q. Any other hobbies?
HA NA JANG: I like drawing.  Sometimes the ball, is like animation character, and I present for my friends, sometimes my friends.
Q. What's your favorite character to draw?
HA NA JANG: Like a rhino.  And Pooh, the bear.  And Lion King sometimes, too.
Q. Were you a good artist at school?
HA NA JANG: No, just for fun.  I'm just watching on the Internet.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT