COATES GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY R+L CARRIERS
February 5, 2016
Ha Na Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you survive these long periods of downtime?  
HA NA JANG: I just -- yesterday I don't think about it, like the weather or the score.  I just really keep simple.  It's no problem today, but it's a long day, playing 36 holes.  Today playing even par is no problem, really good playing today, and then 18 the birdie was really nice.  I finished so good today.   
 Q.  You've had an exciting couple weeks.  Here you are again at the top of the leaderboard, last week the albatross on a par-4.  Are people still congratulating you on that?  
HA NA JANG: Yeah, last week was congratulations on your albatross, and then yesterday was congratulations you're the leader right now, so really happy two weeks.   
 Q.  Explain what happened on 13.  
HA NA JANG: Oh, No. 13 is like -- I don't want to think about it.  It was a really good driver, but just too much thinking on my second shot because 173 flag, was a little into the wind, I want to hit like two choice, and I hit really soft, strong draw with a 5-iron, and five minutes I think about my shot, so I did too much thinking, and my miss was a really big miss, No. 13, the second shot.  I pushed my 5-iron over the green and on the cart path.  I don't know what happened.  I can't drop.   
 Q.  You asked for a ruling?  
HA NA JANG: Yeah, I asked Marty something.  He said, Ha Na, you can't -- it's cart path, so you just have to play it, so no problem.  I hit it on the cart path.   
 Q.  Your second shot was off the path?  
HA NA JANG: Yeah, I hit 56 wedge.  It was a really bad shot over the green again, and then my chip was a really bad shot, and a two-putt.  I was really angry after 13.  But my caddie said no, don't angry, too many holes right now, just two more days, so you keep going, simple, simple, don't think about it, No. 13.  I said, okay, I can try, two more birdies, so it's no problem.   
 Q.  You came back with that last birdie here?  
HA NA JANG: Yeah.  I birdied No. 18, and he said, I promised you, right?  He said, see you on the green so I can birdie.  I'm really confident about the conversation on the last hole because it's very comfortable distance, the third shot, maybe 92 yards, so I can birdie, definitely birdie, so really confident shot, so it was a really easy birdie and a really good finish.   
 Q.  The course as a whole today, after all the rain, did you see that much of a difference?  
HA NA JANG: I think first round really dry, the fairways and the greens, but today is really wet, and the greens are really soft.  My ball really stopped quick in the fairways with my driver, tee shots, so it was a little bit of a problem with different distance, so that's all.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT