KIA CLASSIC
March 22, 2017
Ha Na Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So I know you live in Korea, but when you're here you live in San Diego.  
HA NA JANG: Yeah.   
 Q.  Why here?  
HA NA JANG: Because my uncle house in there, so very easy to stay here.  First time in San Diego is like my age is like 12; play the USGA the 5 years.   
San Diego everything is perfect:  Golf course, weather.  And then not really humidity, dry.  I like the golf course.  It's like very narrow and rough really quick and the putting green.  Then really good practice area and really good persons, really kind persons.   
It's very easy to contact the Korean people, yeah.  And then it's not really too far the Korea Town from here.  So, yeah, I want to buy a house in San Diego, but just thinking.   
 Q.  So you really like it here then.  
HA NA JANG: Yeah, exactly.   
 Q.  What do you like to do other than golf here in San Diego?  
HA NA JANG: Like other golf course?   
 Q.  Something not golf.  Do you go to the movies?  Do you like to surf?  What do you like to do?  
HA NA JANG: Four years ago, every day going early in the morning.  6:30 I'm going to the ocean, the beach, just looking for the handsome guy, a surfer.  Look really fun.   
So I'm just sitting down in the car looking at another people.  Woo, handsome, and drink coffee.  Then really good breakfast in area, so good, and then view is good.   
Yeah, so anything is really good.  I want to try the surfing but really dangerous sport.  So I like the dog and cat.  I like the puppy.  Just my uncle house has one puppy, one small one, and every day he is walking together.  It's really nice.   
 Q.  What golf course do you play when you're here?  
HA NA JANG: Aviara and La Costa, sometimes El Camino, it's like 30 minutes from here.   
 Q.  Okay.  
HA NA JANG: Yeah.  Then like try men's tournament, Monday qualifying, long time ago.  I love that.  A lot of tournament right here, so really good practice every day.   
 Q.  Now, how do you feel in your game going into this week?  
HA NA JANG: Right now?  Last week was awesome.  I make the hole-in-one, I make the car, and then 9-under par the final round.  I make birdie on hole No. 18, 16 yard.  That was awesome.   
It's like feels really good this week.  I like the weather, the area.  I love it.  So maybe be really good score after this week.  So, maybe, yeah.   
 Q.  I know you don't want to get too far ahead, looking into next week, first major, how do you feel?  
HA NA JANG: Feels really exciting, but not think too much, not think too different.  Just think golf course, just tournament.   
But I want to win because I want to go swimming in the water and the 18th.  Yeah, it's very exciting right now.  Uh-huh.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT