COATES GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY R+L CARRIERS
February 3, 2016
Ha Na Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Early leader here at the Coates Golf Championship.  7-under today.  Take me through your day.  
HA NA JANG: No. 7 is a very lucky number, so I feel very comfortable today because last year I had a second-place finish, so I really have more confidence on this golf course.  I like that it's an old golf course, and just thinking like on the fairway and the greens, there's no problem because the weather is perfect, and then everything is really good today, yeah.   
 Q.  You had a couple saves out there today.  What did it mean to be able to bounce back?  
HA NA JANG: Oh, it's perfect, no bogeys.  I like it.  So today is like more -- I don't want to think about that it's windy, and don't play for a score.  I don't see the scoreboards, I just keep going just simple, simple, simple.   
 Q.  You played great last week, as well, having that albatross.  What kind of a reaction have you gotten from people?  
HA NA JANG: Some players are like double eagle, and then holding on, so I don't know what perfect means.  It feels like albatross very amazing myself, but today is awesome more.  Better than last year.   
 Q.  I understand that you bought something new to celebrate your achievement last week.  
HA NA JANG: Sorry, what?   
 Q.  You got a new dog?  
HA NA JANG: Yeah, a new dog.  Name is Albatross.  Two birdies, names is Birdie and Albatross.   
 Q.  So when did you get the new dog, and what did you decide to name it?  
HA NA JANG: Last week's unbelievable shot on Friday, so I got my new dog, named it Albatross.  I have three dogs:  Birdie, Eagle and Albatross.  I need one more dog, Hole-in-one.   
 Q.  Where did you buy the dog?  
HA NA JANG: Korea.  My mom is protecting it right now.   
 Q.  What kind of dog?  
HA NA JANG: Pomeranian.  It's white color.   
 Q.  Are the other two Pomeranians?  
HA NA JANG: No, so two Pomeranians, one border collie named Eagle.   
 Q.  What was working so well for you out there today?  
HA NA JANG: It's a little more think about a little more simple thinking, because today the flags are very easy, and then I'm just keep going like just on the fairway and the greens, so I'm very comfortable in the conversation because very good finish last year, same golf course and the same weather, so I'm just simple thinking, and it's very good.   
 Q.  What's it been like working with this guy?  
HA NA JANG: He's always like confident shot more.  He want to just have the confidence, and then you try the one swing, don't stop at impact, and no more think about the wind, just keep going simple, so that's it.  Yeah.   
 Q.  Is that why you made a hole-in-one last week?  Did you finally listen to him with the hole-in-one?  
HA NA JANG: Yeah.  It's so funny.  It's amazing, it's like very -- emotions are very exciting like this, and my coach and my dad, what happened.  Because I don't -- yeah, it was very good last week.   
 Q.  Talk about the reaction that you've had, reaction from Korea, here, of your albatross.  How many text messages, phone calls?  
HA NA JANG: Friday night I think my phone explode or something.  300 maybe text messages for me.  It was like 300 people text for me, great shot, I watch on TV, amazing, exciting.  Yeah, I know.  It was exciting.   
 Q.  So did your mom surprise you with the dog?  
HA NA JANG: Yeah.  I talked to my --   
 Q.  Do you have a picture?  
HA NA JANG: Yeah, I do.  I'll show you after.  I talked to my mom, mom, I need buy one more dog because the albatross is exciting but now it feels like very good, I want to buy new dog.  So my mom, "Okay, no problem."   
 Q.  What about a car?  
HA NA JANG: No car.  I'm sad.  Don't talk anymore.  I need a car.   
 Q.  You can't even drive.  
HA NA JANG: Oh, yeah, but no.  But I need a car.  I need a car.   
 Q.  Do you have a car in Korea?  
HA NA JANG: No, no.   
 Q.  Never drove?  You just need one?  
HA NA JANG: I can drive, but sometimes my dad's car I drive.  I haven't been practicing.   
 Q.  Do you have a home in California?  
HA NA JANG: No, not yet.  I just think about Dallas and Orlando.  Maybe this year or something, winter.  Yeah.   
 Q.  Where did you guys do your winter training?  
HA NA JANG: In LA, La Brea.   
 Q.  Stacy Lewis says she loves watching your reactions.  She was excited to see your hole-in-one.  Have you noticed that other players get more excited when they play with you and have other people talk to you about your reactions, your fist pumps?  
HA NA JANG: I remember it's like today, I played with Carlota Ciganda.  She talked to me, like, "I like you," because some people, the Korean players are very quiet and no actions, but you're like very action and then very funny and then you're very smiling, so she said, "I like your style."  And people are like, "I like your style," some things, the emotions, some things.   
 Q.  You're fun to watch.  
HA NA JANG: Yeah.   
 Q.  Was your nickname Clover?  
HA NA JANG: Yeah, my ball, too.   
 Q.  Was that your nickname?  
HA NA JANG: Clover Girl, Lucky Girl.  So my four-leaf clover is like 13 years ago.   
 Q.  You've been marking your ball that way for 13 years?  
HA NA JANG: Yeah.   
 Q.  So how much is an albatross on a par-4 luck and how much is skill?  
HA NA JANG: Skill.   
 Q.  It's all skill?  
HA NA JANG: All.  It's just skill, the albatross.  I think 80 percent lucky, 20 percent my skill.   
 Q.  Did you shoot 8 or 6-under last year first round?  
HA NA JANG: Last year first round, I remember 6.   
 Q.  So you beat that?  
HA NA JANG: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  And you were only one shot back last year?  It's a good sign, right?  
HA NA JANG: It was a really good finish at 18.   
 Q.  Just talk about this course, qualifying in last year.  
HA NA JANG: Yeah, I don't want to think about qualifying.  Very scary.  Like every hole, it's like pressure.  I think it's a little more -- it's comfortable, something, about this golf course because it's very similar to Korea, the golf course is a Korea golf course that's very narrow, and then the big trees, too, but the Korea left side out of bounds, it's more comfortable, this golf course.   
 Q.  Have you been to Augusta before?  
HA NA JANG: No.   
 Q.  You know about --  
HA NA JANG: 11 and 12.   
 Q.  Do you like those holes?  
HA NA JANG: Yeah.   
 Q.  Do you want to go to Augusta one day?  
HA NA JANG: Augusta is the Masters golf course, right?  I'm not going to Hawai'i this year, so I'm going to watch the Masters three, four days.  Maybe I like Jonas Blixt.  I want to watch Jordan, and then maybe my friend plays, Danny Lee.  He's my friend, so I want to caddie for him.  I will text him after my practice today.   
 Q.  Do you ever play with Danny?  Who wins?  
HA NA JANG: I played maybe 10 years, in San Diego every day practicing today, and play the USGA.  His caddie maybe one time in USGA, U.S. Amateur, something, 2007, he caddied for me just one day.  It's really nice golf player, yeah.  I think so.   
 Q.  Were you happy when he won last year?  
HA NA JANG: Yeah, yeah.  I text for Danny, congratulations.  He say, "I don't know how I did it."  I said, "You're really good player, keep going, keep going."  Is really good, my friend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT