MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 17, 2015
Ha Na Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  HA NA JANG:   Every hole is birdie chance...that putt. 
The back nine is very, very tough, No. 1, 2, 3.   Like No. 2 is really good (indiscernible) the bunker shot. 
So I think really good second No. 6 and par‑3 is really good timing birdie.
So I think is really smooth day, yeah.

Q.   Anything that was working specifically, or just the whole game working well today? 
HA NA JANG:   I think today iron shots really good.   Just every hole is birdie chance.   Very easy.   Like every days really good.

Q.   Right now leader in the clubhouse.   What does it feel like?
HA NA JANG:   Really happy because No. 9 finish with birdie, so I'm very happy today.   Yeah. 

Q.   Talk about your round. 
HA NA JANG:   I think really good start because first hole and second was very easy birdie.
Every hole birdie chance, but if you miss your putt...
And then back nine is really, really tough Thursday. (Thursday?)   No. 1, No. 2, and No. 3.   really good (indiscernible), and then really good timing No. 6 and birdie. 
So I'm really happy today, yeah. 

Q.   Start out with the lead; still has it right now.   How are you feeling? 
HA NA JANG:   Yesterday's very hard my back because very tired day yesterday.   I'm go back to Korea last week and the jet lag and very long day yesterday.
But yesterday leader and today leader.   I'm very happy.

Q.   And finished the round with a birdie.   How is that feeling, finishing on a high note? 
HA NA JANG:   Yeah, the back nine is very, verypressure and very scary No. 1, 2, 3. 
But really get strong finish like No. 6 and No. 9 to finish in birdie, ah, I'm very happy today is it all.

Q.   What's the primary religion in Korea? 
THE INTERPRETER:   There is no primary religion in Korea.

Q.   Buddhism?   No? 
HA NA JANG:   I am Christian. 

Q.   God bless you then.   I was there on 6 and 9 when you finished with birdies.   Why did you finish so strongly? 
HA NA JANG:   Just No. 6 I just want think I want to go middle of the green and then I want to par, but really good happy finish No. 6.   Because I think very tough hole because left to right.   So maybe two, three points very big break.   But good putt birdie. 
No. 9 is very easy birdie.   I think so.   Tee shot and second shot, and then 4‑yard putt, really good, straight putt, yeah.

Q.   Seemed like you handled pressure well today; did you feel that way? 
HA NA JANG:   I think today's very confident shot every hole.   So I'm not pressure every days, every tournament.   No pressure.   I'm just enjoy play golf. 

Q.   What is your approach going into the final two rounds? 
HA NA JANG:   Oh, yeah, (indiscernible).   Every hole pin high next two days so, I think just 15‑under is the leader, so that's my really good (indiscernible).

Q.   Maybe go to the mall tonight and go shopping?
HA NA JANG:   No, I think maybe a little break.

Q.   Strong start with the birdies to begin; birdied at the end.   A lot of confidence, I suppose. 
HA NA JANG:   I think starts really good, because No. 1, No. 2 is a really easy birdie.
But first nine, every hole is birdie chance‑‑ sorry about that.   First hole and second hole was really easy birdie, but every hole is birdie chance.
I think really good iron shot today first nine.   I think back nine is very tight.   No. 1, No. 2, No.3 is a big save, but No. 6 and No. 9 really good timing for my birdie.
I'm really happy today, right? 

Q.   How does the back feel?
HA NA JANG:   Better than yesterday, but it's a little bit more (indiscernible) than two days.   So I think better tomorrow.

Q.   Are you surprised that you're playing so well given the back issues? 
HA NA JANG:   I think it's not too much practice really make it easier to playing golf.   No tired.   Just really feels really good.
Body is a little bit tight, but my swing is very good because just (one hand swing?)   yesterday and today.   No pressure on impact.   Just very easy thing in the golf, yeah.

Q.   And confidence going into the weekend? 
HA NA JANG:   100% my confidence right now.   (Laughter.)

Q.   What was your thought process heading into today's round and how close did you come to matching what you wanted to do? 
HA NA JANG:   Yeah, I think today's morning is very thunderstorm coming, so it's two and a half hour delay.   Just a little more break and then a little confidence my feel.   Just a little bit practice today, too.
So I think today was 2‑, 3‑under my first tee off, and then really good score today 4‑under, right?   Really good today, yeah. 

Q.   How would you evaluate how well you played today? 
HA NA JANG:   I think 80% today.

Q.   Only 80%?
HA NA JANG:   Yeah, because just two miss the fairway and then maybe five, six time miss the putt.
So I think three more birdie be 100%, yeah.

Q.   How much did confidence play a role today coming in?   You were leading and probably feel better, get better positive energy.   How did your confidence play into how well you shot today? 
HA NA JANG:   Yeah, just go back to Korea and then two tournaments, so a little bit more confidence in Korea.   So just a little different feel than one month ago.
Every day practicing change my swing, and then everything change really good.   Confidence right now I think is 100%, 200%.   Yeah. 

Q.   Do you get massage on your back or anything?
HA NA JANG:   Yeah, yesterday after round one‑hour massage.   I think today, too. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT