MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 16, 2015
Ha Na Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Feel good to be leading after one round?   
HA NA JANG:   Yeah.   Today my (indiscernible) really bad.   But just one thing is I wanted‑‑ oh, sorry.   Sorry about that.   Okay, I'm thinking fairway, in the fairway and the greens, because really narrow the fairway and very small the greens.   
So just one thinking just fairway and the green, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Does it feel good to be leading after one round and see your name on top of the leaderboard?   
HA NA JANG:   So my first time in Ocala, but it's really bad play (indiscernible) like tournament.   So it's really practice every day so really good today.  
   
 Q.   Talk about 18.   You have to have a pretty good feeling when you come off the green and make a birdie at the end.   
HA NA JANG:   No. 18 is like perfect driver and then 3‑wood and then 20 yard front edge chip‑in.   Really good.  
One thing is like (indiscernible) No. 18.   52 wedge just really good shot, yeah.  
   
 Q.   How excited are you to walk off the course as a leader?   
HA NA JANG:   I really happy today because morning is very bad condition my body.   Very tired my bed, so just no practice today.   Just feels like round and then one hole, one hole, one hole.  
I don't thinking about like score, so really good play today, yeah.  
   
 Q.   How was your round today?   
HA NA JANG:   Okay, so I think is perfect driver today.   95% driver to fairway, so I think it's very easy in the fairway and the greens.  
No problem today.   Very happy today, yeah.  
   
 Q.   The last putt on 18, is it great to be able to walk off the course with a birdie?  
HA NA JANG:   Uh‑huh.   So today is first round, right?   So wasn't thinking 2‑Under, 3‑under, but really good score is No. 17 on the finish.   (Indiscernible) birdie No. 18, so very easy in fairway and then very good second shot 3‑wood and then really good chip.  
So really good chance No. 18.   So, yeah, really good round.   
   
 Q.   One more.   How do you like this course?   Is there something about it that you enjoy?  
HA NA JANG:   Yeah, I like course.   Very narrow fairway and small green.   Very close in Korean golf course, so I think it's very easy my feel.   Very enjoy this week, yeah.  
Really good golf course, yeah.   
   
 Q.   After the front nine you were only 1‑under.   You really kind of put it together on the back nine.   Talk about how hot you got there at the end.   
HA NA JANG:   Oh, the front nine is really bad condition my body today.   No practice in the morning, so just a little break, break, break.   
So, yeah, just only thinking like fairway and the green, so really good.   Too much chance front nine but really big miss my putter.   I think really good score is front nine, yeah.  
   
 Q.   And you finished with a flurry.   You had a number of birdies at the end of the round and end up right now tied for the lead.   Were you starting to just put everything together at the end of the round there?   
HA NA JANG:   Yeah, just always thinking about fairway and greens.   Very easy thinking, right?   So very firm the greens back nine, so just one thing is like first front nine (indiscernible) on the green, and then (indiscernible) 7, then birdie chance and then I can (indiscernible) like inside hole, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Was there anything difficult for you today or was it a very smooth round?   You felt confident the whole round?  
HA NA JANG:   I think was very difficult front nine because just a little...   (Through translation.)   I think number maybe 7, the par‑5, really big miss my third shot.   Maybe 20,30 yards front edge, so...  
But very smooth the back nine, so no problem today.   
   
  
  
  
  
  
, they're out here.   They actually took the day off from being at the hospital with Erin to come out and watch.   
I know that's got to be hard for them, because they've been doing that for the last two months.   We're going to go see her now.   
But Team Erin is basically the family, friends, and doctors and aides and nurses that are taking care of her.  
   
 Q.   How amazing is it that this event has been going on for so long with the relationships that are this strong that you feel like it's part of your family here?  
ALENA SHARP:   Yeah, I think this event and the community, it's all about community.   You see the same volunteers, you have the same housing.   
I mean, I've been on tour for ten years and I have two events where I've stayed with the same people for ten years, and it's this one and Portland.  
I just think those relationships, they never go away.   There are great people here in Sylvania.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT