SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CTBC
April 23, 2015
Ha Na Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Disappointing bogey at the last? 
HA NA JANG:   Yeah, big miss my tee shots right side.   I pushed my ball so I hit the tree.   Maybe 320 the front edge, so I'm hitting 16 just a little left side fairways.
So 160 third shot in the left side bunker.   Very tough shot bunker left side. 
I think it's really good finish, yeah.

Q.   Leader at the moment.   Feel pretty good?
HA NA JANG:   I think so, yeah.   It's pretty good.   Better than last week.

Q.   Change caddies recently?
HA NA JANG:   Like four weeks.   Really good caddie, yeah.

Q.   What made you change? 
HA NA JANG:   I think just little ‑‑ before my caddie name is Dean, but he finish just (indiscernible), and then I want to change the caddie.   Like a little remind my thinking, so I change the caddie.

Q.   Like the way your rookie year is going so far?
HA NA JANG:   Yeah.

Q.   A lot of good finishes; been in contention a lot. 
HA NA JANG:   Yeah.   I think really best scores are last week, and then what is it?   Last week, Hawaii, and then other tournament.

Q.   ANA?
HA NA JANG:   I think so.   I think two really best scores.   But no miss cut, but scores really bad.   So I am practice, practice, focus my iron. 
So really good this week.   I'm changing iron right now, so really good.

Q.   Sei Young was saying that in Korea they think you guys are rivals but you're not.   You played against each other a lot. 
HA NA JANG:   Sei Young Kim is my best friend; we are 13 years playing together.   2009 national team Korea.   Sei Young is a really nice, good player.   She's my best friend.   Yeah, it's good. 

Q.   What did you think of last week when she made those two shots?
HA NA JANG:   Oh, last week really awesome.   I'm watching TV, so first 18, No. 18, Oh, my God.   Really nice inside chipping.   And then really nice eagle, right? 
Sei Young and I practice round together Monday.   You really that shot, that playoff?   Say, yeah, I don't understand, like Sei Young, right?   So really nice.

Q.   What's the plan for tomorrow? 
HA NA JANG:   I think one purpose is just like fairway and the green.   Very tough course.   I think tomorrow afternoon tee times maybe 25 miles strong wind, so I think fairway and green and just a little more practice my iron.
So I think it's really good tomorrow.

Q.   How important is the Olympics to you? 
HA NA JANG:   Yes, it's my big target.   Just one target next is year's Olympics.   I think in Korea every player is thinking about Olympics. 

Q.   Is that why you came over here?
HA NA JANG:   Yeah.   It's good.

Q.   How do you like it so far?
HA NA JANG:   Tough question right now.   I think it's really, really every thing is enjoy.   New world, new tournament, now golf course.   Everything is new.
But very enjoy, so I'm good.   I'm rookie this year, so enjoy.   I play, enjoy, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT