HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 4, 2017
Ha Na Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Another exceptional round to follow up from yesterday.  Tell us about it.  
HANA JANG: The front nine is not really good because just par, par, is good, make birdie.  Then after the raining, a little tired myself because I bogeyed hole No. 11, really bad start on the back nine.  I just tried to be patient, tried to be patient and really strong finish.  Hole No. 18 is awesome shot.  I just hit it 120 shot, it was a great save and 4-under par is a great score today.   
 Q.  Is there any pressure on you as the defending champion?  
HANA JANG: Not really.  Always like I just think about it exactly the same tournament.  Just tournament, not defending champion.  I like the golf course.  It's a golf course really beautiful, little firm the green and a little difficult the fairway.  It's simple, not really pressure for me.   
 Q.  How do you think you're positioned heading into the final round?  
HANA JANG: I think it's a really good position but I think better than, not really pressure, just play.  My target is 15-under par tomorrow, so should be great.   
 Q.  What did you do during the rain delay?  
HANA JANG: Rain delay, I'm just eating in dining.  Just so hungry, because tee time is like almost 10.00, so past a little lunch time.  I'm just eating in dining, too much eating.  My ball is too far away on second shot, hole No. 11.  That's why, too much eating.   
 Q.  After a slow start, how did you get things going?  
HANA JANG: I think today is really good play.  Before the rains, just tried simple, every hole, not really good the front nine.  Just like just come down, just one hour, sitting down in dining.  Just eating, just eating the food.  After the raining, I just played hole No. 11, start hole 11.  Like really bad start, just bogey.  But a really good bogey because my second shot missed left but really tough.  Really difficult.   
 Q.  So you had to sit and have lunch knowing it was --  
HANA JANG: Yeah, after 11, I just try simple, simple.  Four more birdies.  It was really good.  Like it was easy, hole No. 14, the par 5, easy birdie.  And then 16 is good, but 17 make birdie.  That's a really good, strong finish.   
 Q.  You've got good momentum going into the final day.  
HANA JANG: Definitely.   
 Q.  You were close at 17, weren't you?  
HANA JANG: Yeah, 17 is the par 3.   
 Q.  Did you hit your shot close?  
HANA JANG: Ten feet, 12 feet, something, whatever.  Yeah, it's like really straight putt.  My putt is very easy there.  Hit it uphill.   
 Q.  Do you feel that there's a score tomorrow that will be the winning score?  
HANA JANG: Right now, the leader is 14-under par, right.  I don't want to think about another score.  Just think about my target is 15-under par tomorrow, four more birdies, great score.  15-under par finish, finish in the top three is good.  I think it's top three, the finish is really good play this week.   
 Q.  And where are your supporters?  Have they turned up yelling, the boys that came to watch last year?  
HANA JANG: I think so, yeah, maybe.  I mean, three more peoples coming.  Last year, just five peoples come from Korea, but this year, almost ten.  It's really good for my energy.   
 Q.  So they just asked you, if you felt more pressure, but it looks like you're having even more fun defending than you did last year just playing.  
HANA JANG: It feels like defending is really fun, but I don't want to think about more pressure.  I just think about defending champion or something, really big pressure for me.  I don't want to think about defending or score, player.  Just keep going myself.   
 Q.  Looks like you're having fun, but you must think, coming up to 18 under your picture and going good.  
HANA JANG: Yeah, I was watching the picture every day.  It looks pretty, isn't it?  Cut my face or a little something, whiten my face, thank you for that, I don't know who is it.  It's good for me.   
 Q.  When you say it's good for your energy to hear these people clap, do you think it just adds to when you're giving the ball a wallop -- you were hitting it a long way.  
HANA JANG: Always after good shot, big clapping is really good for my energy.   
 Q.  But you are the most energy I can person here today.  Everyone else is, I'm so tired.  
HANA JANG: I try to think more about, I'm not really hot; just cold, cold, cold.  I just think about cold, cold, freezing.  That's why my energy is so more -- I think it feels like tired or something, think about it like that.  It's more tired.  I just try like more, the energy, more confidence, yeah, that is true.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT