HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 3, 2017
Ha Na Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How was your round today?  
HANA JANG: Today is a great round because I make eagle hole No. 5.  It's a really good shot there.  And then I can't make eagle hole No. 16, but a little missed putt.  It was a really great round today.  No bogey, bogey-free today.  Perfect, awesome today.   
 Q.  I can tell, you have big smiles all over your face right now.  If you do win the tournament, we know you're infamous for that Single Ladies dance last year.  Can you give us a hint-hint, clue-clue to what this year's dance might be or you don't want to jinx it?  
HANA JANG: Maybe, top secret, I don't want to tell you.   
 Q.  We'll just have to wait and see?  
HANA JANG: We'll see on Sunday.   
 Q.  And Lee Joon-gi is going to be performing tomorrow, are you a fan or are you looking forward, are you going to be watching him in action?  
HANA JANG: I'm just watching on TV:  He's really handsome.  Oh, my God, he's really handsome and is a very sexy guy.  I saw videos for Lee Joon-gi last week, so welcome to Singapore.  So hope to see you tomorrow but a little more I need to sleep.   
 Q.  So you really found your form today.  
HANA JANG: Yeah, it's like yesterday's a little tough day because not really good start on the front nine but today I just try simple, simple.  It was a really good score on the front nine.  I make eagle hole No. 5.  So happy that after hole No. 5, but a little missed shot, missed shot on the back nine a little bit but I make birdie or two.   
It's really, really exciting, hole No. 16.  I hit driver almost 300 yards.  I remember 240 yard to the front and I just hit 3-wood and on the green and just six feet and eagle putt, little missed it but it's okay, still make birdie.  Easy 17, 18.  It's very good score today.   
 Q.  Tell me about your first eagle.  
HANA JANG: Yeah, the first eagle, I hit driver almost 300 and then I hit 5-iron 173 on the front, a little helping wind.  I was like 11 yards short of the pin and just try like, just try to think about the speed and it's really good.  My ball is rolling.  Make eagle.  That's it.   
 Q.  This is the first time you've defended a tournament, so a different feeling?  
HANA JANG: Yeah, definitely different feeling, but it's different golf course.  Not much pressure.  Just simple.  Feels like new golf course and new tournament.  So it's pretty easy.   
 Q.  How are you liking the golf course, as much as you like Serapong?  
HANA JANG: This year is more, looks like links golf course, but I like the greens.  Speed is good.  Fairway conditions is good.  Weather is good but sometimes raining.  But it's okay.  Great score.   
 Q.  When you come up the 18th and you see your face on the side of the hospitality unit --  
HANA JANG: Oh, looks pretty, isn't it?  I think cut my face or something, a little big in the eye, white thing on the face.  Better than my face right now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT