HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 28, 2017
Ha Na Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MATT HAAS: Happy to be joined by defending champion, Hana Jang.  How does it feel to be back in Singapore?
HANA JANG: First time in Singapore, finish top three and last year I win, so I'm always happy to stay in Singapore.  It's really good.
MATT HAAS: New course now.  You played it a little bit.  What are your thoughts on it?
HANA JANG: I just played nine holes yesterday and today.  It's really difficult and really different than last year.  Last year we play more (indiscernible) golf course, but year look like more wide and more open, no tree, and there's so much windy.  So really different.
MATT HAAS: You're playing very well to start the year, won your first event.  What's been working in your game?
HANA JANG: Just really like more big target this year.  The target is win this year and really practicing in winter training after CME and more with the short game.
My short game is now really good than last year after practice, and more in windy, because windy is so strong here now, so really been practicing windy.  Australia wind is so strong and this one, just keep simple.  I think more -- than last year, so change my mind, change everything.  I think my hair is changing, too (laughter).
Q. What specifically sort of thing do you do in the off-season?  Do you try to change anything in your game, and also, will you tell me on an average day in the off-season, how many balls do you hit?
HANA JANG: Oh, like winter training, just play basically and I live together my crew, like four years together.  I just think more short game and just a little windy, like practice windy.  And I'm not change like strong grip, more easy than last year.  But this year is more the shoulder.
And then like last year, is more closer and this year is more flat.  So more easy the swing and then it's not much -- a little bit and then practice every day, 11 hours, 12 hours, wake up at 4.30 every day and finish the day with 9.00pm.  So really hard training.
Q. What are the advantages of getting up at four in the morning, 4.30 in the morning?  Do you go running or what do you do?
HANA JANG: I mean, it's always like 4.30 wake up and just like stretching in the morning, and then I'm going to the clubhouse at 5.00am and eating breakfast.  And then a couple practice and also playing the golf course.  And then play 18, because I finish at 11.30 and after the round, practicing one hour and going to lunch.  So no running in the morning, just practice in the morning.
Q. You won last year here, and you won three times; it was a difficult year last year because you came under controversy.  How have things been with you and Ingee, and what sort of -- how are you -- what is --
HANA JANG: It's difficult to talk about, sorry.
Q. And just maybe talk about last year, you had a dance -- will you have one this week?
HANA JANG: I'm always think about the dancing every weeks, but more media ask questions -- what are you going to dance this music, I say what's the question, like top secret, top secret -- (indiscernible) -- still looks like the tournament -- watching Monday, Tuesday, watching the style of the golf course, and then other it's like country style or something like that.  And then after Wednesday, I think something -- like emotion.  Sometimes I sing, too, yeah, in Korean.
Q. So you do have something planned in case you win on Sunday, or it's something that you will think about Thursday or Friday, depending how the week goes?
HANA JANG: Not really.  Always like after, like after, I think a little bit more.
Q. Can you just talk a bit about how is your game this year compared to last year in terms of what has improved?
HANA JANG: I think last year in the two years, three years I played on LPGA.  First year, second year, I was too much thinking and more pressure myself and more my swing, I change, like, "Hana, just easy just be patient and try to be patient on every hole."  Last year -- just be patient, just keep simple.  Doesn't change that much.
Q. When you won two weeks back in Adelaide, you had the whole Jang Gang following you on Sunday.  Do you enjoy that kind of fans following you through the course?
HANA JANG: Final round, exciting, very trusting, too, because I never see before the five guys, last year, too.  I'm just walking on Sunday, I just walk with them between the practice range and walking in the round and he's saying:  "Hana, you can do it.  Just do it.  Let's go."
"Oh, thank you."  And five follow me to No. 1, I think just watching me -- just watching two holes.  But one, two, and after that, oohh, five guys on every hole, like really big sounds.  Like, "Hana, let's go," and then, "come on, like that."
And hole number -- it was like really difficult day Sunday, first hole, I made bogey and really like just simple, simple, par putt.
And after 13, 14, I made birdie and it's crazy the sound, like "Hana, do you this."
I'm like, thank you.  Okay.  Better play."
And then hole No. 17 he say, "I love you Hana, I love your style."
"Oh, thank you."
And then hole No. 18 is:  "Oh, my God, I know you win this week."
"Okay, thank you guys."
And then picture together and then it's like right now they pass me, "Hana, you can do it."  After the round, "Great score Hana, great day."
"Oh, thank you," like every day, thanks (laughter).
Q. You're still in touch with them?
HANA JANG: Yeah, every day is like -- it's good luck for me.
MATT HAAS: We appreciate your time.  Best of luck this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT