MASTERS TOURNAMENT
November 10, 2020
Corey Conners
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Just talk about the two days out there on the golf course, how peaceful it is, yet different.   
COREY CONNERS: Yeah, first of all, it's great to be back here. I'm really looking forward to this week for quite a while, and it's definitely quite different without the patrons out there. It's been fun the last couple days, especially today playing with the other three Canadian players in the field, and yeah, just trying to soak it in and enjoy it and try and learn a few things out there.   
The golf course is in great shape, as per usual, and very strange not hearing the cheers and not having people yell at you to give them a ball on the 16th hole. Definitely miss having the patrons out here, but overall it's been great the last couple days.   
   
 Q. Where is it the biggest difference, Amen Corner with the big clusters of people?   
COREY CONNERS: Yeah, typically you get over the hill on 15 and you can just see so many people, 15, 16. It's kind of weird walking down off the 6th tee, as well. There's usually a lot of people kind of on the hill there getting a few of some holes, and then again, Amen Corner with people behind, as well, there's a lot of open space there now. It's quite different, but it is what it is.   
   
 Q. Do you think you'll be able to play any shots differently now since there's just different viewing areas?   
COREY CONNERS: I think kind of the shot into No.2 if you're on the left side or can't quite try and get it on the green, it's pretty open on the right side, which gives you a really nice angle into the green. That one in particular. There's usually a lot of people there and it's usually a little weird trying to hit it into the people. Yeah, that one is a little bit different.   
You've got to focus on your target on some of the holes a little bit better. The holes are kind of framed with all the patrons around them in certain situations. Just got to make sure you pick good targets.   
   
 Q. What are your expectations this week coming in with the tropical storm heading north and the rain and the wind?   
COREY CONNERS: Yeah, I'm just going to try and focus on my game plan. If the weather comes in like expected, that's going to be definitely challenging, but just have to be more patient out there but make a good game plan and stick to it and try and be near the top of the leaderboard on Sunday afternoon.   
   
 Q. What is your game plan?   
COREY CONNERS: Just keep it simple really, be really committed to my targets, make sure I'm picking the right target, learning more things about the golf course these last couple days, and using my experience from the two other times I've played, those little tricks or little strategies that I've learned. Just try and focus on those and trust it.   
   
 Q. Without any crowds on the course, is it more difficult to kind of pick your targets?   
COREY CONNERS: Yeah, there's a few shots that it's definitely difficult. You definitely miss having the patrons out here. Yeah, you have to kind of‑‑ we've gotten the view the last few days of what it's going to look like for the rest of the week. It's definitely different, but you can find things to aim at out there.   
   
 Q. Are you generally a good wind and rain player?   
COREY CONNERS: Yeah, I used to enjoy practicing, playing in the wind and rain as a youngster. I remember playing a lot of times with my dad when I was a junior golfer, and we'd be out there in the rain, kind of the only people on the golf course slugging it out. It's not like I enjoy those conditions; I like when it's quite sunny. But yeah, I can remain patient and consider myself pretty good in the tough conditions.   
   
 Q. Who won the game with the three other fellow Canadians?   
COREY CONNERS: Yeah, it was fun to get to play with those guys, and we ended up halving the match, tied the front nine and tied the back nine and tied the overall, so Mike and I were partners against Nick and Adam, and yeah, no blood.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT