MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2019
Corey Conners
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. (No microphone.) 
COREY CONNERS: It was good. A little trickier conditions, with a little bit more wind, a little different direction, you had to be pretty smart. Pretty steady round for the most part. Did a nice job on the par‑5s with three birdies out of the four, which is very important around this golf course. And had a little trouble on the other holes. Hit a few shots that I didn't love but overall it was really good. Lots of solid tee balls and iron shots.

Q. A little early on looked like the battle was going a little bit left for you, was there anything to that or is that the nature of this course?
COREY CONNERS: Yeah, it wasn't the same as yesterday. The nature of the course, trying to steer it away from trouble sometimes. I managed to save some stuff.

Q. What's your comfort level out on this golf course now? How do you feel when you're walking around?
COREY CONNERS: I feel really comfortable, especially on the greens. I have a lot to learn still. I feel I have quite a bit of knowledge but they are very difficult and finding the right lines is really tough. I tried to pick my lines and be committed to those. A couple putts I didn't play quite enough break on but starting to get more comfortable, starting to figure it out a little bit.

Q. We were talking yesterday about perhaps trying to be a little bit more aggressive out here. Can you be any aggressive out here, really?
COREY CONNERS: Yeah, there's really not a lot of chances where you can be that aggressive. The pins were all tucked. And you miss them on one side and you virtually have no chance to get the ball up and down. So have to be a little bit safe. There were a few pins out there today I was trying to be aggressive to and give myself good looks. I sort of regret that, particularly on 7. I was trying to chase down the pin on the back corner, and hit a really nice shot and just a couple inches short and ended up running back into the bunker.
But, yeah, I think there's times you can pick your spots but for the most part you have to be pretty smart and take your medicine, just be safe. 

Q. (No microphone.)
COREY CONNERS: I'm sticking with the same game plan. If I can hit some good tee balls, hit solid iron shots and give myself a couple of birdie chances and try to hole some putts.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT