THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 14, 2021
Corey Conners
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Great round today; what was the key?
 COREY CONNERS:   Yeah, I hit the ball really solid off the tee, a lot of good iron shots.  A couple times I was in trouble I recovered really well, and made a couple good par-saving putts out there.  Yeah, just been playing well all week.  Just got a few bonus putts to fall in today.  Hit it close on 11 and made eagle, which was really nice, as well.
 Q. On 11, how did that eagle come together?
 COREY CONNERS:   Yeah, I've had a nice number the last few days with a hybrid and hadn't hit my best shots the last couple days.  But I really like when I can go for the green with that club or go for that green with that club.  It was a really good number, just over 240 to the front, and landed just on the front of the green and sat down pretty nice for me.
 Q. Just talk about overall how your game is trending right now, what's going right for you, what's working?
 COREY CONNERS:   Yeah, I'm doing a lot of things really well.  I'd say I'm hitting the ball really solidly, hitting it well off the tee.  Ball-striking is usually a strength of mine so that's really solid right now.  Getting some putts to fall, as well, is a nice added bonus.
 Q. What's your schedule looking like over the next couple weeks?
 COREY CONNERS:   First time play in the Match Play tournament, then defending at Valero, which I'm really excited about, Augusta after that, and then RBC Heritage.  Nice stretch of really good events.  It'll be a lot of fun and hopefully can keep playing well.
 Q. You mentioned Valero; what is it like to be a defending champion with so much time since the last tournament?
 COREY CONNERS:   Well, I don't have experience being a defending champion.  It's kind of weird because it does feel like a long time since I've played there, but I'm really excited to get back, and I'm looking forward to a fun week in San Antonio.
 Q. Your experience this week at THE PLAYERS Championship, the golf course, just in general how was your experience?
 COREY CONNERS:   Yeah, the experience is amazing.  This is an unbelievable event.  The TOUR does a great job with everything.  The golf course is in fantastic shape.  Everything was first class.  It's a good test for us.  I love it here.  It's one of my favorite tournaments on the schedule, and like I said, the TOUR does just an unbelievable job, and it was a fun week.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT