MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2019
Corey Conners
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You've been on a magical carpet ride for 10 days now. You're the leader in the clubhouse at the Masters. Talk about the last 10 days and talk about this moment of the?  
COREY CONNERS: Yeah, it's been wild, definitely unexpected but I'm playing some good golf and really excited to be here and honored to be playing in the Masters and just trying to keep riding the good play. I had a great day out there today, a lot of fun, and hit some quality shots and was able to get a couple under par, which was very pleasing. So, yeah, for the rest of the week it's been a bit crazy the last week but everything's been great and just trying to really enjoy the experience.   
   
 Q. That was a quality shot on 15. Talk about that a little bit.   
COREY CONNERS: Yeah, that was the shot of the day for me, I would say. I hit a nice tee shot and had a perfect number for a full 6‑iron into the green, a little bit of help. My caddie and I had it 202 and just hit it really sweet, right at the target and the pin was close to the middle of the green and so that was a good shot there. I thought the 6‑iron would be a perfect club and I loved it in the air and it ended up pretty close. And it was great to make that putt, a little downhill, left‑to‑right.  
   
 Q. First time here anybody's going to be nervous but you had to step up to the first tee after Jack Nicklaus and Gary Player. What was that like?  
COREY CONNERS: Yeah, it was pretty cool, I was able to stand on the back of the tee and watch them tee off and really appreciate what they have done for the game of golf and it was a really cool experience to be part of. I just tried to soak it in and really enjoy it.  
And then being in the first group following them, that was pretty special as well. My playing partners, Adam and Andrew are both good friends, so we're very comfortable out there and we had a great time.   
   
 Q. How have you been able to gather your emotions, come down off the high from San Antonio and have a positive first day?  
COREY CONNERS: I think I'm just, everything's still high, I'm just having a lot of positive emotions. Didn't really sleep much the beginning of the week, I felt energized with positive things that have happened, still relaxed a little bit the last few days and definitely, yeah, just trying to get back into some golf and have some fun of the it's a great place to be and I'm just really enjoying it.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT