RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 22, 2016
Corey Conners
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Another Canadian Open for you.  Walk us through your round, a little up-and-down, obviously disappointing finish, but good start for the most part?
COREY CONNERS: Yeah, I got off to a nice start.  Gave myself lots of birdie chances.  That was kind of the goal of the day, just get in position off the tee and give myself a chance to hit the greens.  The course is really firm obviously, and played tricky if you were out of position off the tee.  Got off to a nice start and was going along pretty smoothly.
Yeah, kind of had a couple nice up-and-downs on the second nine I played to save par, which felt good.  A bit of a hiccup at the end, got a bit of a flyer out of the rough coming into the final hole.  Went a bit long.  But yeah, it was a fun day, and pretty happy with how I played.
Q. You played a lot of professional golf events on a lot of different tours.  Do you feel like you belong out here on the PGA TOUR?
COREY CONNERS: Yeah, definitely.  I've been playing really well all year, and having success at the kind of lower levels.  Definitely feel like I belong out here.  I haven't really played my best golf this week, but keep learning.  It's a different feeling playing out here in front of all the fans and stuff.
But yeah, I've definitely enjoyed myself, and I think I can compete out here for sure.
Q. Now with the wind kind of picking up this afternoon, the cut may move down to plus two where you're at right now.  Are you going to be sitting around waiting? Are you going to work a little bit?  What are you going to do now?
COREY CONNERS: Out of my control.  Get some food into me now.  Yeah, just see what happens.  Be great to play a couple more days, but if not, I had a good experience and I'll learn from the mistakes I made.
Q. I understand it's a big weekend for your family with your sister and the MCAT?
COREY CONNERS: I didn't even know that, but all right (laughter.)  Yeah, she's been studying really hard the past few weeks.  Yeah, I hope she does well.
Q. How disappointed are you right now?
COREY CONNERS: Yeah, I don't know, a little disappointed.  It's over with now, but yeah, a little sour taste I guess on the final hole.  Hit a good one tee shot and a really good iron shot.  Just jumped out of the rough a little bit and was kind of in a tough spot.  I had been playing the flop shots really well all day and for some reason decided to go for the bump-and-run and the grass kind of caught the club a little bit.  Didn't do a lot of bumping or running.
Q. So just a miss-hit, and maybe not a case of nerves, too?
COREY CONNERS: Yeah, maybe a little bit nervous I guess.  I was pretty confident in the shot.  If I threw another ball down, I think I could pull it off, but just didn't happen.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT