THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 11, 2021
Corey Conners
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. How would you describe your round?
 COREY CONNERS:   It was a bit unusual day, it was some interesting stuff.  I got off to a rough start on the first couple holes but was able to make some nice putts for par.  That sort of got some mojo going in the round and had a hole-out on 14, followed up with a birdie and played pretty steady on the second nine.  Hit a lot of solid shots and made things a little easier on myself.
 Q. Talk about the hole out on 14.
 COREY CONNERS:   Yeah, it was an awesome shot, obviously.  Had a really good number for a 9-iron, just a perfect solid shot with that club.  Just right at it the hole way.  I hit it really solid, I knew it was going to be pretty good and it's always a bonus to see it go in.
 Q. Is this just a continuation of last week, how much confidence did you really bring into this from how you played last week?
 COREY CONNERS:   I took a lot of positives from last week, I had a solid week, was playing well all four days and just tried to keep the same mindset, keep the same sort of game plan that I had last week and just picking my spots to be aggressive, just playing with a lot of confidence.
 Q. Do you feel like as your career has kind of progressed that this is kind of where you're going, these bigger events, getting into contention, playing these tough golf courses well?
 COREY CONNERS:   Yeah, I mean it's nice.  I feel like my game suits a lot of golf courses really well.  I definitely like the challenging golf courses and I've always really liked this golf course, so just excited to come here playing well and, yeah, like I said, a lot of confidence and it's a great challenge, but something that I'm excited for.
 Q. The 17th green, do you feel like that was a little bit more firmer because it's maybe out in the open maybe a little breeze kicking up?
 COREY CONNERS:   Yeah, I maybe noticed that a little bit on Tuesday when I played a practice round, but I wouldn't say it was anything crazy today.  I landed my shot kind of into the slope and it came back.  I think all the guys know if you land it up top it's got the risk of going over the green.  But yeah, I wouldn't say it was that unusual.
 Q. How important was that early par putt on 13 after the hiccup on 12?
 COREY CONNERS:   Yeah, made a great par putts on 10, 11 and 13.  That really kept some momentum going, I could have easily been a few over par at that point.  Yeah, I felt a little fortunate to roll those in and then ultimately holed one out on 14, that really kind of got the round going in a positive direction.
 Q. How confident are you in your putting right now compared to maybe where you were in the past couple of years?
 COREY CONNERS:   Yeah, I feel like I'm putting a lot more consistently and gaining a lot of confidence.  I've been working really hard on the putting and yeah, feeling great over the ball and definitely seeing the lines really well and trying to be pretty quick in my routine, committed to the target and it's working out well.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT