MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2015
Corey Conners
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  COREY CONNERS:   Much different than yesterday.   I felt pretty good yesterday, but today I hit a lot of really nice shots.   Drove the ball well, and made a lot of iron shots and holed the putts.   Easier to be relaxed when you're playing well and I had a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   I saw you on 2, there, did the ball just oscillate?  
COREY CONNERS:   Yeah, it did.   I was on a slippery slope there.   And just taking my practice swings and the ball oscillated over a little bit, but I hadn't come close to addressing the ball or caused it to move, it was just because of the slope or Augusta wind or something.   So you just mark it and play it from the new position.   
   
 Q.   Is it feeling more comfortable today than yesterday or was it just the bounce of the draw?  
COREY CONNERS:   Yeah, a little bit of bounce in the golf.   I think there's less pressure today.   I was just trying to go out there and have fun.   
   
 Q.   Proud of your scoring on your first major, second round?  
COREY CONNERS:   Yeah, definitely.   Still left a few shots out there.   But, yeah, really happy with the score.   It was a good round.  
   
 Q.   Can you tell us what happens next?  
COREY CONNERS:   Yeah, looking forward to turning professional and playing my first professional tournament next week.  
   
 Q.   Can you go over your birdies in your round?  
COREY CONNERS:   Yeah, I birdied 1.   Just playing really well.   I had a 5‑iron from I think 207.   I hit a 5‑iron, and got it 20 feet below the hole and rolled it up the hill and it dropped.   That was a nice bonus for the round.  
No. 2, hit a driver, 3‑wood in front of the green, pitched it up to about four feet, holed that.  
Birdied the 5th, nice drive, 6‑iron, it was just under 200 yards and left myself about a 12 foot putt and holed that.  
And I bogeyed 9.   
13 I hit it on, two‑putted for birdie.  
I had about a foot on 14 and didn't make it and birdied 15 and 16.   Same thing on the last two, had a couple of good looks.   
   
 Q.   Par 5s, the birdie?  
COREY CONNERS:   Yeah, not too bad, around 200 yards on both those approaches there, both times under the wind, was nice.  
   
 Q.   What did you take away from the experience of playing with Mike Weir?  
COREY CONNERS:   His wedge game and putting are really solid.   Definitely something I need to work with on to compete.   Yeah, enjoyed watching his short game.   Hopefully I can learn a couple of those shots in the future.  
   
 Q.   Did you tell he was grinding out there?  
COREY CONNERS:   Yeah, definitely.   He was obviously struggling a little bit off the tee, which I think is a result of injuries.   It's too bad.   He was definitely trying hard.   And it was fun to be out there with him.  
   
 Q.   You talked about how you watched that video hundreds of times or whatever.   Now that you've actually played in the Masters, any difference in kind of how you look at it?  
COREY CONNERS:   Well, no, not really.   He's obviously had a lot of great success on the course, and I'm sure that he'll‑‑  
   
 Q.   Are you more of a friend of him than a‑‑  
COREY CONNERS:   Oh, yeah, definitely.   It's cool to play the last three days with him, I guess, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday.   
   
 Q.   Did you ever cross paths with Spieth in college?  
COREY CONNERS:   A few times we played against his team.   I was paired with him one time.   He was an impressive player.   And what he's doing out here is pretty nice.  
   
 Q.   What was it like playing with him?  
COREY CONNERS:   He's a really nice guy.   He keeps it pretty simple, hits it straight, on the green, rolls in putts.   He doesn't do anything to really wow you, but obviously he's wowing people with keeping it simple.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT