ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL
March 6, 2021
Corey Conners
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. How would you assess your day today?
 COREY CONNERS:   It was a pretty solid day.  Definitely thought the conditions were a lot trickier today than they were the last couple days.  So, proud of the way that I hung in there.  I would have liked to have made a few more birdies, give myself some better chances, but it was quite tricky.  So to hang in there and shoot a round under par is pretty good.
 Q. When you started the day you kind of thought might be some rain, difficult, really difficult conditions, but that didn't really materialize.  But then when did it kind of start to get tricky?  When the wind kind of kicked up and got a little chillier?
 COREY CONNERS:   Yeah, it clouded over and the wind really picked up.  So it was positive that we didn't get any rain, but that extra wind made things challenging enough for us out there.  It was forecast to rain, I think there was rain all around us but we got really lucky today that there was an umbrella over the golf course, I think and kept us dry.  So, yeah, hopefully another nice day tomorrow and can play some good golf.
 Q. When you're in these positions, what are the things that you draw on the most when you have a chance to win on the PGA TOUR?
 COREY CONNERS:   Yeah, a lot of good experiences I've had and solid finishes and definitely draw a lot from my victory at Valero Texas Open.  Got to be patient, but I have a lot of confidence in my game and got a great game plan, so just going to really stick to that and see what I can do tomorrow.
 Q. Over the last few years you obviously elevated your game a little bit, you become probably a lot more consistent, obviously with the win at Valero.  Like, do you, do you feel like, do you do you feel a lot more comfortable when you are in these positions now?
 COREY CONNERS:   Yeah, I think so.  Definitely a lot more relaxed.  I was probably more intimidated my first few years when I got near the lead, but I feel really relaxed, I feel comfortable, I know just stick to my process and stick to my game plan and that's when good things are going to happen.
 Q. If you have one thing that you're going to focus on tomorrow to hopefully pick up your second PGA TOUR win, what would it be?
 COREY CONNERS:   I'll just keep wearing this out:  Just stick to my game plan, I've been really relaxed this week, playing with some confidence and be aggressive in situations where I can be and be smart and keep rolling it well.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT