ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL
March 4, 2021
Corey Conners
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. 6-under, get things going Thursday here at Bay Hill.  How would you grade your day-one performance?
 COREY CONNERS:   Yeah, I give myself a high grade.  I did a lot of things really well today and hit a lot of really nice shots and was able to hole some nice putts, so definitely a high grade for today's round.
 Q. Started on the back side, 6-under through 7, where does the mind go to when you get off to such a great start of maybe what you could shoot out here?
 COREY CONNERS:   Yeah, I mean, I know this golf course can sneak up on you if you get a little too relaxed.  So I was off to a really great start there, my focus on 17 and my 8th hole was 6-under par at the time, I was trying to hit a solid 5-iron, give myself another chance at birdie.  Just take it one shot at a time, I think that's really important out here.
 Q. Your third start in this event, you missed the cut the previous two times, what was different about what you were able to do here today?
 COREY CONNERS:   I've always really liked this golf course.  When I was a junior golfer I actually came and watched a few times.  And I always loved the place, such great condition, visually like the golf course a lot off the tee.  You got to be really precise with your shots.
 I think I just had a little more rest leading up to the event this year and had a week at home last week, so feeling fresher coming in here and, yeah, definitely excited to have a good start and excited for the rest of the week.
 Q. Quick turnaround to tomorrow morning, how do you keep the momentum going?
 COREY CONNERS:   Yeah, just going to get a good sleep tonight, probably roll a few putts here, just to build on the good feeling that I had out there today and, yeah, just try and keep the same tempo in my swing tomorrow and keep hitting it solid.
 Q. Do you ever get to a point in a round like this when you're thinking 59 at all?
 COREY CONNERS:   No, today I really didn't.  I've been close at home a few times and you think about it a little bit more there, but like I said, the course can sneak up on you, so just tried to take it one hole at a time and just try and keep making birdies, but not make mistakes if I can avoid it.
 Q. When you've been at home have you done it?
 COREY CONNERS:   No, never.  My best attempt I left a putt right on the front lip and ended up shooting 60 at Dye Preserve, my home course down there.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT