NHL AWARDS CEREMONY
June 23, 2010
Martin St. Louis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  Lady Byng Memorial Trophy 

 MARTIN ST. LOUIS: I think that was probably just Richie at that time more than anything. But I think, I guess nowhere near a small player, and we go back like ten years, the small players and trying to fight for inches and trying to play bigger than your size. 
 You don't think about winning the Lady Byng and going to make it to the NHL and when you're a non-drafted player. I had a chip on my shoulder more when I was younger. But I think with the rules change, I was able to, I wouldn't say play differently, but I didn't have to prove anybody like I have to play bigger than my size. I couldn't just go and play and not worry about is he too small? 
 I could go and I could fight through that early on in my career. I think the last few years with the rule change, it's really trying to push it to the limit without getting caught. I don't see myself as a guy that doesn't hustle or, you know, plays tough or hard to play against kind of thing. I just try to push it as far as I can without getting caught. 

 Q. Any reservations for you (Indiscernible)?
 MARTIN ST. LOUIS: No, I mean, you have to respect the honors, you know whether you're winning or not. You have to respect the NHL and what it stands for. This is the best game in the world. This is the highest level. This is what every kid dreams of doing to put your name on the trophy whether you finish third, second or first, you should show up. 
 I couldn't be happier to win this trophy. I know I've been nominated, but I think back in my career as a kid, and if you told me I would have a Cup, a Hart, an Art Ross, a Lester B. Pearson and now a Lady Byng, I don't think I would have believed you. So it's a special night. 

 Q. How big is this for a small guy? The small guy never gets recognized, really. 
 MARTIN ST. LOUIS: Well, I don't think that that's true.

 Q. They don't talk about the small guy. 
 MARTIN ST. LOUIS: I don't know about that. I don't think it's about being small, I think it's about playing the game whatever size you are. And this is an award that recognizes somebody that can have success without getting caught, you know, playing within the rules of the game. And that shows good sportsmanship as well. So I don't think it's about small or big.

 Q. Did you ever give up setting aside a spot on your mantle for this trophy? 
 MARTIN ST. LOUIS: No, I mean, no. It's just I'm happy I can add that one, you know. Obviously we all play for a Stanley Cup. But when you get recognized for other stuff besides a team trophy, it's neat. It's something that nobody can take away from you. 

 Q. Is the trophy case big enough for the addition of this trophy? 
 MARTIN ST. LOUIS: Oh, I don't know. They're not all in one room so, we'll see now (laughing).

 Q. Did you get the idea to (no microphone)?
 MARTIN ST. LOUIS: Today, 2:30 I was laying in my bed and I was real tired, and I was thinking maybe just catching a little nap and I couldn't fall asleep. And I just decided maybe I should write something instead of winging it, so I put it on my phone. 
 And when we walked in there they told us to turn our phones off. And everybody's pulling paper out. I was like who uses paper? You guys do, but you all have a recorder. 
 So I don't know, I thought it was nice and neat. I could actually read it. You know, you just want to make sure you don't forget anybody. It's not like you're reading anything. I wasn't trying to read, you know, the Richie thing I just thought about it when I was right there next to him. 

 Q. So he didn't actually tell that you? 
 MARTIN ST. LOUIS: No, he did not. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT