NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 22, 2007
Martin St. Louis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MARTIN ST. LOUIS:  Every now and then you come up with a group of guys that are young and can do it right away.  Example -- those two guys are a fine example. 

 Q.  Smaller defensemen, if it's a transition game a little bit more maybe? 
 MARTIN ST. LOUIS:  No, I just think -- I think their talent and skill level.  You have to give the accolades where they're deserved.  They're great players regardless of the rules. 

 Q.  Seems like for the last couple of years Vinnie and Brad were a twosome but now the dynamics seemed to change, seems as you and Vincent have success together on the penalty kill and everything.  Do you think it's a dynamic that's changing? 
 MARTIN ST. LOUIS:  I think Vinnie and Brad have always been in all the franchise of the future, you know.  I think the thing about Vinnie and Brad, they're both centers.  They don't play together.  I had the luxury of bouncing back and forth.  Right now it's been with Vinnie most of the year.  It's gone really well. 
 And we're having fun. 

 Q.  What do you account for your success the way you guys -- 
 MARTIN ST. LOUIS:  I think me and Vinnie have played sporadically together for a long time.  But the year of the Cup we played more than half a season together that year.  And we know each other's game.  And I think we really feed from one another.  We use each other's assets. 
 And I think the biggest reason why we're having success is we use our speed.  One of us is always full gear.  The other one is trying to find each -- we're finding each other going full gear.  If he stops somewhere, I'm flying and he gets it, gives it to me, vice versa. 

 Q.  Do you guys -- is that instinctual or do you work on that?  Do you guys have set plays the two of you work out? 
 MARTIN ST. LOUIS:  We definitely try to do stuff.  But it's not like we have set play.  You have to react to the moment.  It's tough to have set plays in hockey.  But we just -- I know what he's looking for.  He knows what I'm looking for.  We're just trying to complement each other. 

 Q.  Have you noticed in terms of this game -- have you noticed that he's raised it this year like that he's -- there's a maturing that's happened? 
 MARTIN ST. LOUIS:  Definitely a maturing.  I think he's been a threat every game.  I think it shows his consistency. 
 I think that's where when people like -- that's when you go from I think a good player to a great player.  I guess when people are able to say like he's there, you know, he's reaching his potential at that moment.  Because that's the thing -- that's the one thing that you look in to a player is the consistency he's bringing every night. 
 So I see that this year and I saw it, the progression obviously (inaudible) for a long time and to be where he is now at such a young age is great. 

 Q.  Do you think, though, now that even more so than maybe when you guys won the Cup that the success of your team depends more on not just him but that he's got a bigger stake in it now than maybe he's had in the past? 
 MARTIN ST. LOUIS:  He's got responsibility.  But I think the success of any team depends on a lot of guys, can't have the success, be on one person's shoulder.  He has his role to play like everybody else. 
 But to go far, to make the playoff you have to -- you need everybody chipping in, whatever role they play they gotta be doing their job. 

Q.  During the regular season when we see the puck tricks that guys can do in practice when they're just messing around, and I know they don't like doing it during games in season (inaudible).  Is the All-Star game a forum where these skilled guys with the new tricks can pull them out safely? 
 MARTIN ST. LOUIS:  I think so, if it works.  If it doesn't, you might get laughed at.  You're just trying to entertain the fans is the biggest thing.  If you can come up with something that's going to get people off their feet and get the people clapping at home, get more people watching, then that's the right thing. 

 Q.  How hard are you going to work out there?  110 percent during the regular season is the cliche.  What about an All-Star game, 65, 70? 
 MARTIN ST. LOUIS:  I don't know.  We'll see.  We'll see how hard my center is going. 

 Q.  The goalie is part of that, too.  Want to stop you guys a little bit.  What's it's going to be like going against Roberto again? 
 MARTIN ST. LOUIS:  Fortunate he went as far as he did when he played in Florida.  We saw him quite a bit.  So we always -- bragging rights.  It's all about bragging rights. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT