NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v BRUINS
May 26, 2011
Martin St. Louis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. It's uncharacteristic of him, but your power play really got going. That must be something that you're very happy about going into Game 7?
 MARTIN ST. LOUIS: Yeah, I mean, our power play, a couple of games previously wasn't too sharp. And last night I thought we had a lot of poise and were opportunistic. And they have a very good goaltender and we have to earn our goals. Going out there, you know, like, you know, us battling in the net with him. We have to battle. These are competitors.

 Q. Do you think Game 7s might be scary because it could be over, you don't know. Is there a fear?
 MARTIN ST. LOUIS: The last game it was scary, it could be over. The Pittsburgh series, the same thing. You know, we've been in do or die situations for four games now, I believe. So we've had that experience. 
 You know, I said yesterday it's two good teams that are going to play really hard to get that fourth win, and it's the toughest one to get.

 Q. (Question about physical play)?
 MARTIN ST. LOUIS: It's not new to us. We know he's a good hockey player. I think sometimes his skill level gets overshadowed with maybe his reputation and his physical play, his grittiness. And obviously spends a fair amount of time (indiscernible) forget that he's got the tools and the skill level to make those plays. 
 I've played with him for a couple of years now. And that did not surprise me. He's a great play-maker.

 Q. Remember at the beginning of the series you said that you expected it to be on five-on-five, going into Game 7 do you think you'll have to win at even strength tomorrow?
 MARTIN ST. LOUIS: It's tough -- it's hard to tell. Yesterday there was, I don't know, nine penalties called, really for us it was like a Game 7. I don't know tomorrow if it's going to be changed, but I think referee is trying to do the best they can in calling the right infraction. They don't want to -- I think they don't want the team to dictate the game but at the same time you've got to play within the boundaries of obviously the rules.
 So we gotta approach it that way. We don't want to be surprised by it. It's five-on-five the whole game, so be it. If we have special teams, you know, you gotta deal with the P.K.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT