RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2018
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nice round today.  
ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah, Glen Abbey is a lot of fun.  I shoot 62 on Saturday last year and then back it up with a little 63 here today.  Could have been 59 watch there if a couple putts didn't lip out.  I lipped out on 10, I had a lip-out on 17 there.  Got lucky on the par-5, on 13, hit it right in the middle of the water, and it hit a rock and bounced over the thing and I made birdie.  I count those as two on the plus side.  So that was a lot of fun today.  Rolled some putts in, chipped in, and you've got to do that around here, and you've got to keep going.  I think 20-something-under is going to win, so we'll forget about it when I get home.  This was a good day, get to enjoy it for a minute, but I've got to close my mind off.   
 Q.  Good time to get a round like this and get a good tournament finish in this one?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS: Well, yeah.  I prayed a lot this week, I'll tell you that much.  There was a lot of prayers for my family, just to give me peace and calm, just to come out and not worry about it, not worry about where I am.  I was in the same exact place, 131, and I ended up finishing fifth and getting my card.  If I keep going like I am, it should be all right.   
 Q.  You get those five birdies in a row, 2 through 6, do you get that feeling like this could be a special round?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah, whenever you do that -- there was a chip-in in there and I was hitting everything to a foot, a couple feet here and there.  I almost made a hole-in-one on the little par-3 over the water there.  I knew it was going to be good if I could just keep going.  And the biggest shot of the day, the biggest par of the day was on 11.  I hit it left behind the trees, had to chip out and then hit my wedge to tap-in distance and got going and kept it going from there.  Made some good par putts and then birdied the last few par-5s and got after it and almost got one on 17 there.  That was pretty close.  It was about a 30-, 40-footer.  It was a good day.   
 Q.  Not just this course where you've played well in this tournament, so what is it about Canada?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS: I don't know.  It's great.  I love this place.  I've always played well in Canada.  There's a lot of good vibes here.  And the golf course is absolutely pure.  I mean, I was walking on the fairway on 8, and it just felt like you were walking on carpet, and you get up on the green, and it's like grass.  The conditions are absolutely perfect.  The fans are amazing here.  They really, really love their Canadian golfers, and they love golf in general.  They've always cheered for me, and I kind of feel the vibes.  It's pretty cool.   
 Q.  Have you felt a round like this coming on lately?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS: I really have.  Even though I shot a million on Sunday between the two days, and after 36 last week in Kentucky, I just felt like there was something coming, and I kept telling my wife, I kept telling my agent.  Everybody is like, I'm going to get one down here eventually.  And I finally closed one off and made a couple birdies towards the end there.  It's just nice to do it and get the mojo.   
 Q.  Obviously this is one of your favorite tracks.  
ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah, it's one of my favorite places.  It's not just the golf course.  It's the people, the town, just the whole feel of it.  I love it, and I didn't really do much practicing this week because I was so tired from last week.  I went from my worst round of the year to the best round, which was a pleasant surprise.   
 Q.  You had five birdies in a row on that front side.  Should have had a birdie at 17.  What a day, bogey-free 63.  You have to be very pleased.  
ROBERT GARRIGUS: Absolutely.  I hit a lot of good shots, and I got very, very lucky on that par-5.  I hit my 7-wood, and I was trying to go for the green, and it lands in the middle of the water and hits a rock and bounces over, end up making birdie, two-shot swing.  The two lip-outs from 30 feet, I don't care about those.  It was a good day.  I'll just try to keep it going for the rest of the week.   
 Q.  FedExCup, 131 coming in.  You know where you stand, you know how many events you have left.  
ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yes, sir.   
 Q.  Is there pressure?  You've been out here a long time.  
ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah, I did it last year, I did it the year before, I did it the year before that.  I'm not too worried about it.  I knew I was going to come out and not make a mental mistake and just go after it, and I went after it today, and everything worked out, so hopefully the next three days will go well, too.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT