ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 27, 2014
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ROBERT GARRIGUS:   I'm actually going to go home and see my family.   I haven't seen them for two weeks.

Q.   That's understandable. 
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah, I haven't seen my kids for a while, so I'm going to go back to Phoenix.

Q.   How long have you guys worked together? 
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   This is three years.

Q.   Did you know his father at all? 
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   I never got to meet him.   I never came to Chattanooga to meet him, but all I hear are good things and they're all really close.   So it's tough, but he's in a better place, and he's looking down on us.

Q.   What was his name? 
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   His nickname was Round Daddy.

Q.   You said it was emotional? 
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Oh, yeah.   He was crying on 17.   I'm like, Dude, we've got two more holes.   Don't start crying right now, please.   I was tearing up.   After I made the putt on 17, I started tearing up a little bit.   I'm like, all right, shake it off.   Just because of the whole week, I told his family that I was going to play for him and I was going to go shoot the grass off this as place.   Didn't know what it was going to be on Sunday at 8‑under in a 30‑mile‑an‑hour hurricane.   But this is a special week regardless.   I made the cut on the number, and I still have a chance to win the golf tournament, so it's pretty funny.

Q.   Are you typically a pretty good wind player? 
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yes.

Q.   Why do you think that is? 
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   I hit it really solid.   If I'm swinging well, I can bury it through the wind better than anybody.   I've hit it solid in the wind before.   A lot of the tournaments, like Memphis when I had a three‑shot lead, it was blowing 30 miles an hour there.   Disney it was blowing 20 on that Sunday, and I shot 64 then too.   Kapalua was whipping I and I almost won that one.   Just the whole, I don't fight the wind much.   I just let it help me.   If it's blowing left to right, I'll go with it.   If it's blowing right to left, I'll do the same.   I hit it really solid and made a lot of putts on the back side.   Front side I missed three or four putts inside of 10 feet and lipped out the four‑footer for par on 3.   I mean, this could have been crazy.   But it was a great day, great way to finish birdieing 17 and 18.   I'm very happy.

Q.   Is it right you hit a 370‑yard drive on 18? 
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah, I absolutely smoked that.   I hit 8‑iron in.

Q.   What did you have in the rest of the week? 
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   4‑wood, 4‑iron, and 3‑wood.

Q.   Is that the longest drive you've ever hit in a competitive round? 
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   On a flat surface?   Yeah, probably.   Kapalua I hit a couple of 393 and 396 back‑to‑back on 17 and 18.   But on flat ground with 25‑mile‑an‑hour wind, that was far.

Q.   How much was wind, how much was emotion, how much was anything? 
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   I would say 20 yards of it was wind.

Q.   Straight down? 
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   The other 350 was all me.

Q.   You start out over the water? 
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   No, I just hit a dead straight high.   I didn't even watch it.   I just hit it.

Q.   You also had a big drive on 14 when you eagled there.   Did you use wedge to chip in? 
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   No, I putted it.   I decided this whole week I was going to putt it off the fringe.   I never chipped one.   It was so hard to chip on these greens.   That swing actually had to take a lot off of it.   I was trying to hit a heel cut, and I was hitting it so good.   I set it up off the heel and hit a high heel cut and held it into the wind and went right in front of the green and stayed right there and made two.   It was just one of those days.

Q.   I saw you kind of stomping after the second shot at 2.   Did you think that was right on? 
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah, I did.   I thought it was going to creep up that hill.   That putt was really slow.   I mean, I was a little bit nervous, but I was hammering everything by the hole.   I was like, man, I've got to give this a roll.   It's going in hard.   I knew if I had gotten it there, it would have gone in.   But it was a great day.

Q.   When the wind showed up today, did you have a good feeling? 
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   When I was 6 or 7‑under, I was like now we're getting it.   You know, it's just when you shoot an 8‑under par round on a golf course like this and these guys are going to be dealing with the nerves and the 30‑mile‑an‑hour gusts, it's going to be interesting to see what happens.   But I think I'm going to fall a bit short. 
Keegan's up there, and there are a couple of guys up there that are good wind players.   I'll stick around for a bit.   But I have a flight I've got to catch at 3:30, so hopefully I miss it.

Q.   Taking off next week and then going to THE PLAYERS? 
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah, I'm taking off next week, then PLAYERS, then Dallas. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT