JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2018
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Robert, heck of a second round, including a great finish there to make something out of that lie on 9.  I know you have to be pleased with your position.
ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah, absolutely.  Coming into the week in the position that I'm at, kind of like last year, same thing, 130-ish.  Need to put the foot on the pedal so to speak.
Kind of got off to a mediocre start.  Was hitting good shots; just wasn't making anything.  Made a good putt and got rolling.  Then on 8 and nine, those were two -- that's I want to say that's at least a four-shot swing.
Bunker shot on 8, fairway bunker, was 103 yards; lob wedge you can chunk those 95% of the time.  I hit a good shot in there; made a great putt.
And then on 9, I hit it there yesterday and hit a better shot to that back left flag; hit it to like 15 feet.  This one was just perfect.  It was a little punch 8-iron underneath the branches, and it jumped a little bit perfect, and, I mean, played it perfect.
So it was nice to see.  I'm really pleased.
Q. You mentioned putting the foot down to the pedal, and this is the week where you have to do it.  You know have to make some scores out here.  We were talking yesterday and even on the air today about how important being in position to attack off the tee really is.  It's not necessarily a golf course you can take advantage of your length.  You have to be in position.  How do you, as you learn this golf course over the years, adjust the tee shot to make sure you give yourself as many birdie looks?
ROBERT GARRIGUS: You know, we've had a really good game plan here my entire career.  We don't blast driver everywhere.  We take advantage of the shorter holes with 4-wood.
Because the fairways are generous.  If you make a good golf swing and concentrate, you're going to hit the fairway.  The wind was making it a little bit tricky, but being able to know exactly where every club is going to go -- since I've played here so much, I know where it's all going to be.
That's a big bonus.
Q. It's pretty hot out there.  How do you manage it when it's this hot?
ROBERT GARRIGUS: You know, it's a constant struggle.  I think that's why I play so well.  I'm not thinking about golf.  I'm thinking about living.  You can die out here in this heat.
Couple weeks ago I had to get an IV; I was cramping up.  I mean, it can get to you.  Just staying on top of it before your round is the biggest key; obviously during the round you have to pound water and keep eating bananas and granola bars.  You just have to stay focused and face really hard to when it's this hot.
Like I said, when it's super hot I'm just trying to live.  I don't want to die out here.  I've had food poisoning and heat stroke in the last three weeks, so glad I made it through the first couple days.
Q. How about that shot into 9, your final shot there?  From where you were to out it a couple feet away, pretty nice.
ROBERT GARRIGUS: Well, funny thing was is I had the same shot yesterday but with like three extra clubs.  I hit it in there about 10, 15 feet, so I knew exactly what I was looking at and exactly how wanted to play it.
Just took an 8-iron and shut it down a little bit, hooked it, and hit it under the tree and ran it up the green.  I can't believe I hit it that close, but I thought it was going to be on the front.  Didn't think it was going to release all the way up to tap-in distance.  That was really nice to see.
To get the two birdies on the last couple holes, 8 and 9, they're tough, tough holes.  Usually people make bogeys there.  I feel like I picked up about four shots there, so that was a bonus.
Q. You're two back at this point.  What was working for you today throughout that bogey-free round?
ROBERT GARRIGUS: You know, I didn't miss a shot.  Maybe the tee shot on 9 was a little left.  Other than that, I didn't miss a shot and hit all my putts where I was looking.  Just kept going and stayed patient.
I don't even know if I had a par putt outside of three feet today.  It was a great day, and I want two more.
Q. Well you get two more.  That's the good part.
ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah.
Q. You're only two back.  Do you feel good about your game as you head into the weekend?
ROBERT GARRIGUS: Absolutely.  I mean, I'm striping it.  Just need to keep doing that.  Everything else will take care of itself.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT