NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 13, 2014
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about the stretch of eight through 12 where you had four in a row?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah, I got a aggressive on 8.   I was kind of playing a little tentative all day and I was like, you know what, I'm going to go ahead and be aggressive and hit 9‑iron to a couple feet and made birdie there.   Hit 9‑iron into nine, made a 15‑footer up the hill, and then 10, I don't like that hole very much.   
But today I took 4‑wood out and tried to play smart and blocked it and had an unbelievably hard flop shot and hit one of the best flop shots of my life, hit it to ten feet and made that.   I even gave it a little fist‑pump because I don't think I've birdied that hole in ten years.  
The par5 I blocked right and laid up to a good number and stuffed it in there and made birdie.   Made a couple really good up‑and‑downs on the back side, my driver was a little bit squirrely but not too bad.   It was a good day, made a lot of good putts, at the last was good, downhill, breaking a foot, I always like to roll those in the last hole, it was nice.  
   
 Q.   Previously your best round was a 69; I guess the course has not been very kind to you.   Why today?   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   My attitude.   I completely changed my attitude.   I just stopped telling myself that I hated this place, so to speak.   But I convinced myself this is my favorite golf course of the year and I tell you what, this is the best shape I've ever seen it.   The greens are rolling unbelievably good, and you don't usually see that on poa annua.   
So you know, I think with my attitude and the way the course has shaped up, I think everything worked out good today.  
   
 Q.   They were cutting the fairways a little bit shorter this year.   Did you notice that in the tee shots?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   They were also rolling the fairways, which is incredible to see a roller going down the fairway.   I think that might help the shorter player, as well, because they are going to rolling out there a little further.   My second shot on 3 was 90 yards and I flew it 85 yards and bounced into the back rough.   I ended up chipping that ball in so I guess it was perfect.   You can notice the condition, it's phenomenal, the staff here has done an amazing job and Northern Trust is putting on a good show.  
   
 Q.   Changing your attitude, easier said than done?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   If your mind is strong enough, yes.       At the beginning of the week, I said, okay, I'm not going to play a practice round, I didn't go to the golf course one.   I just hit balls once and chipped and put and I told myself that I love this golf course as much as any other golf course that I've ever played and it kind of translate.   Hit a lot of good tee shots and iron shots and made some putts, so I'm going to go with that attitude for the rest of the week.  
   
 Q.   You bogeyed 1, with your new attitude, and then you bogeyed the first hole, which is arguably the easiest hole out here, can you explain how you got through that, because then you go to one of the harder holes out here?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   And I hit a good tee shot and a good iron shot and I kind of got a little bad break in the bunker and didn't get it out and I didn't get that up‑and‑down, so I really wasn't too upset because I didn't hit a bad shot and I just got a bad break.   
So it was pretty easy just to go to the next hole and be like, you know, what I've got holes there, I'm going to go to the next one and hit two good ones there, just left it short, hit two good ones on the next hole and made like a 50‑footer or something like that from the back of the green.   Hit a perfect shot on the next par 3 just right of the flag, landed short of the green, over, with a 6‑iron from 230.   So I'm sitting there, like, well, I'm 1‑over par and I haven't missed a shot yet, and I just kept thinking about that all day.  
Then I had to chip it on 6, I hit it down low right, right next to the flag tomorrow, and I hit a sand wedge up on the hill and spun it back off the hill down to a foot and made par there and ended up stuffing it on 7 and missing it and I just kept telling myself, like it's going to turn around, it's going to turn around, I love this place.   
And I kept saying that every time I got a bad break, I love this place.   I ended up birdieing 8,9, 10 and 11 and I think that was a big part of the attitude.   
   
 Q.   So if you would have had some decent breaks on 1 through 7, this could have been, what, 62?   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   I missed a short one on 7, as well.   Birdied 1, if I birdie 1, I probably shoot 63 or 62.   It was out there.   So had a lot of fun, too.   Good group.   All the caddies know each other, they travel together.   So we had a lot of good conversation, as well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT