FRYS.COM OPEN
October 11, 2013
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just a stroll in the park, right?   Nine birdies, one bogey.   Great weather.   Was it that easy?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Today it felt pretty simple.   I stayed out of trouble and played the percentage shots.   I hit probably one of the best 4‑woods I've hit in a while on 9 there.   I hit 4‑wood off the tee to stay back to keep from going through.  
I hit it to about 8 feet and lipped that out.   I drove it well, with the exception of one hole.   Kind of got myself in trouble with the bunker there, but I made like a 10‑footer for bogey.   Those are the round‑savers that you need when you're going well.  
I got that one to go and then hit‑‑ (indiscernible) the next hole.   It was going good.   It's been a while since I've been in the hunt.   Maybe the PGA, and then I did it at Greensboro as well.   It's nice get back into it after taking a month off.  
It was well needed.   Spent some time with the family and enjoy it.   It was a good day.  
   
 Q.   Robert, you putted really well.   The par save on 10 and 11 I thought was really good.   14, the bogey was good.   Have you changed anything with the putter, the specs?   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   No, not really.   I started with that putter at the PGA.   My caddie and I and my coach, Jim Ahern, worked on some stuff this past month.   I cut my stroke off a lot sometimes, so I'm just focusing on keeping it down the line.   That's all I did today.   I never wavered from it.   
Made a lot putts, and a lot of key putts, like you said.   It was a lot of fun, and I just need to keep doing it the next couple days and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   Have you changed anything with the driver?   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah, I put the SLDR in there.   I'm actually trying a new golf ball from Titleist, the Pro V1+.   I think Adam Scott is playing it.   I like it.   I switched.   
I got some new irons, too.   Got a Hybrid from Adams, which is a sponsor.   I've tried a lot of new stuff this week and seems to be working.   I'm trusting it.   I've spent a lot of time in the past couple weeks.   I've probably hit about 1000 balls with my coach, Jim Ahern.   For me, that might as well be a million.   I don't like to practice that much.  
So I'm trusting my equipment and everything is working out well.   
   
 Q.   Looked like your complete game worked today.   Off the tee, your iron play, and also putting well.   How would you rate your performance?   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah, it was an A+ day.   I did miss a couple short eagle putts.   Can't really get mad at that when you made a bunch of par putts.   Made a lot of midrange putts as well.   I hit it close a lot.   Iron game was good.   Driving it well, like you said.  
Weather was perfect.   I had stocking cap and sweater on this morning, and now it's 80 degrees and I could be wearing shorts and a tank top.   I don't think anybody needs to see that.   
   
 Q.   You've put some really low rounds on the PGA Tour.   We hear this all‑time, it's tough to follow a low number with another low number.   How do you manage your expectations now?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   It's always a different day.   You never know how you're going to feel, if your back will hurt when you wake up, how tired you're going to be.   
But, yeah, I've dealt with that for 10 years.   I'm not really too worried about it.   I'm going to go out and have fun.   The golf course is phenomenal.   Frys.com has done a great job this week.   Been treating the players and caddies phenomenally.   It's just been so much fun having my family here and everything.   Got my little boy to run around and chase him.   
So it's been lots of fun this week, and I'm looking forward to tomorrow regard of what happens.   
   
 Q.   Nice going today.   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   How would you characterize your emotions coming off how last season ended ‑ you said you took some time off ‑ and where you are right now.  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   I was very disappointed in my year last year.   I felt like I let a bunch of tournaments slide, especially the Match Play.   
Kucher got me.   He was the eventual champion, but I felt like I could have won that match.  
And then the PGA, I kind of let it go there, too.   So I was very disappointed in the way I hit the ball.   I felt like I was rolling the ball okay.   Hot a lot of lips from outside 10, 15, 20 feet, 30 feet the past five, six tournaments.   
The playoffs I stunk it up and missed both cuts by a shot and two shots.   Hit ball good enough to get through.  
It was just frustrating.   I took a month off and didn't touch a club for probably about 20, 25 days, and then hit the gym the whole time.   Didn't play any golf.   I got fit again.   I felt like I let my cardio slide and just wasn't working hard enough.  
So I worked hard and got back into shape.   It's kind of showing this week with the body of work I put in in the last 20 days or so.   
   
 Q.   Seems like guys are torching one nine and then the other nine is playing a little tougher.   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah, that front side is the harder side.   There is only one par‑5 and a lot of hard holes.   I was just piping it down the middle and making birdies.   
I felt like the backside was a little easier.   I had flashes of 59 for a second, and I'm like, All right idiot, stop thinking.   Then I made bogey on 13.   I was trying to get that eagle and birdie out to get to 59.  
I started out hot and made some good putts all day really.   That putt for bogey on, what was it, 14 I think, kind of got me.   But it was a fun day.   
Usually when you start out like that you cool off.   When really special days happen you keep going.   
This wasn't super special, but it was pretty good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT