WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2013
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   That's a great finish there and I thought battled all day in these adverse conditions.
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah.   You know, it was a tough day.   You couldn't really get it close to the pins.   I hit it close maybe on 13 there, I birdied that hole everyday.   It was nice to get that birdie.   I was hitting a lot of lips today from 30, 40, 50 feet.   I was hitting so many goods putts to birdie 17 and make the nice little slider on the last was very nice.

Q.   To be putting so well and just so close to those putts, you got to be looking forward to tomorrow.   Right in the thick of the fight at Wyndham Championship.
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   The rain made this place a lot longer which helps me a lot as well.   It's nice to see the putter rolling.   It's a compliment to the staff at Sedgefield Country Club and the PGA TOUR staff.   They've done a wonderful job.

Q.   With the rain off and on all day, how much of a problem did it present?
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Annoying.   Umbrella, towel, rain gear and all the stuff.   Wasn't that much of a difference in the shots we were playing.   It was pretty warm for raining all day.   I grew up in Oregon.   I know what cold rain is.   This is nice and warm.   We had a good day.   Battled all the way to the end there and it was nice to make that one at the last.

Q.   Great playing.   Good luck on Sunday?
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Appreciate it. 
It was really good.   It wasn't great.   I hit a lot of fair shots that I got away with it.   Made a lot of good putts from outside 30, 40, 50 feet.   I hit a lot of lips today.   I could have got a little closer, might have been a little better.   Made a good putt on 18 and 17 so it was a really nice way to finish the round.

Q.   How key is putting?   I know it's key in every PGA TOUR event but on these greens, how key is it here?
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   It's huge.   Speed is huge.   Like I said earlier, on 2 today I saw two guys putt it straight off the green.   I hit a pitching wedge into 2 and hit it over the back and got up and down.   I felt like I made an eagle.   Both the guys in my group played it 5-over. 
It's key out here.   Speed is key.   Sometimes you're cutting to spots to get to it a spot.   Sometimes you're not trying to make it.   The greens are so fast. 
The it was raining today and the greens are still rolling 13.   That putt on 18 raced up the hill and went ten feet past.   I'm glad I made it.   I'm sure they'll be just as fast tomorrow.

Q.   Playing in the morning again, damp again.   Going to add some length to the golf course.   You being one of the big hitters on the Tour, is that playing into your hand?
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   I hope so.   It need to hit it straight.   If I can keep it on the fairway and put my hand on it and get a couple iron shots close it will be nice to have a few putts at it tomorrow.   It should be fun.

Q.   Not the ideal conditions for you today. still able to move up and keep yourself in contention.   Just talk about your round and how Mother Nature played a role.
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   On the first hole I hit a chip shot that should have stopped right around the hole and skipped ten feet by and kept rolling and rolling.   It was like a 25-footer for par.   Made bogey there.   That was the last bogey I made all day.   I felt like I played really solid throughout. 
Made a good putt on 17 and then a really good one on 18 for par there to kind of keep the mojo going for tomorrow.   I hit it fairly solid.   I didn't hit it great today but I hit some fairways where I could put my hand on it and didn't have to guess out of the rough a lot. 
Only on 15 I did really have to guess and didn't judge it very well.   That was a good round.   Good day.   Battled the elements nicely and it wasn't too much difference from the other days but just annoying.   The rain was just off and on, umbrella here, towel there and but it was okay.   It was a good day.

Q.   How much effect did it have on the greens?
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Made them actually faster which I didn't expect.   The downhill putts were slippery.   Obviously with the damp conditions, it made the grass a little faster, I thought.   I didn't expect that at all. 
It was kind of surprising.   But, you know, we battled through it and we got in a couple under and I'm very pleased.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT