WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2013
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Robert, that's the first round of 5-under 65. Nice playing, man. 
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Thank you.   There wasn't a whole lot of wind.   Greens weren't very soft.   They're extremely firm and fast.   I'm not used to seeing that out here.   I haven't played with the new greens out here.   It's kind of refreshing.

Q.   I saw that you closed the front with a couple birdies and closed the back with a couple birdies.   Was there any sort of momentum switching around there?
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   You know, making a long putt on 8.   I was trucking along.   I was hitting shots but wasn't making anything.   Made a long putt on 8.   Bogeyed 10 but I was hitting it good all day. 
Made a couple really good putts there.   Hit it to five feet for eagle on 15 and just missed it but made a good putt on 16 and 17, capped it off there on 18 with two good shots and left the putt short.   All in all, a good day.

Q.   Last week at PGA, got off to a nice start and has this been coming?
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Last week was nice to see.   Really built some confidence just mentally.   I've been hitting it okay.   Need to see some putts going in.   They're going in now. 
It's really nice to see if I keep hitting it like this -- got the new TaylorMade SLDR, just piping it.   It's refreshing to see that thing going off to the right and start drawing in now.   They fixed me up to get my shoulders up a little bit. 

Q.   5-under today.   Talk about what went really well for you out there.
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   I was making some putts.   I hit it fairly well.   Kept it in the fairway as much as I can.   The bermuda rough is pretty tough but not like last week.   You can get the ball to the green and manage some shots. 
The hardest thing to deal with out there, if you land it a foot short of the green it spins back.   If you land it on the green it bounces over if you don't have a good lie. 
I did well, pretty good job of managing the shots out of the rough today and I think that was the main focus was keeping it short of the hole.

Q.   Talked about putting.   A lot of players have said this week some of the best greens they've seen on Tour.   Some of the fastest greens they've seen on Tour this year.   Would you agree?
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   A hundred percent.   These are Major speed.   I mean some putts out there that you can't even come close to leaving short of the hole.   Kind of have to manage it and hopefully it hits the hole. 
If not you got a three, four footer coming back up the hill.   I'm glad I'm putting well.   Got a new Ping putter in the bag that's helped me a lot this week and helped me a lot last week as well. 
The greens are phenomenal.   It's unbelievable the difference from what they used to be.   It's very refreshing.

Q.   I know you didn't play the weekend the way you wanted to last week.   What did you take from those first two rounds and being in contention in a Major championship?
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   It was good to feel it again.   It had been so long, even a few months since I had -- I mean since the Match Play, really, and that's when I feel like I play my best when focused.   I don't lose my train of thought at all.   It's nice to feel the heat.   This week again, it's nice to get off to a good day.   I got three rounds to go.   Hopefully I can keep it up and keep banging it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT