PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2013
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ROBERT GARRIGUS:   The course is in model condition.   I was swinging it well today, I made some putts.   I hadn't made any putts for about three months.   It's been quite a while.   It's nice to see them fall.   
I made a 25‑footer on my second hole today, kind of got things going.   Made a 30‑footer on the next, and then stuffed it on the next, so got some momentum going early.   That was nice to see.   I hadn't had a lot of momentum in the past few months and it was nice to get off to a good start.   
To finish the day like that, to hit it as good as I did today, I thought I was going to have a hard time finishing at 1‑under.   That was a touch chip on 9, had it into the grain from down there and I got really lucky.   I just wanted to fly it up and have a 10‑footer and try and get out of there with 68.   Finally got some luck.   Chipped it on the last hole and it feels great.   
   
 Q.   When you got here this morning, did you change your plan at all because of the rain?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   A little bit, yeah, because out of the rough you can get to the holes early.   Towards the afternoon it was getting a little more firm.   But the tee shots didn't really change that much.   I still hit 4‑wood on pretty much every hole, if not irons.   Hit a lot of irons and 4‑woods today to try and keep it in play.   I think I hit three drivers, that was about it.   
Hit one on 18 and then one on the par‑5, and then one on 9 there.   Not a lot of drivers to be hit out here.   There's so many angles that you have got to stay short of.  
The rain kind of helped us this morning, but the greens were still perfect.   They didn't spike up very much.   The staff here did a great job.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah, it's scorable.   Just because there's no wind.   If you hit the fairway, I mean, we're hitting 7, 8, and 9‑irons, maybe some wedges.   If it's soft, it doesn't matter where we're playing, the greens are perfect.   They are pretty simple to read unless they put them in some tricky spots.   
Today it wasn't too bad.   If the wind picks up this afternoon and it gets firm, it's going to be a hard golf course.   If you stayed out of the rough today, it was scorable.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   You know, I'll be fine.   My three‑year old and my newborn and my wife and everybody is here, so my hands are going to be full until I tee off tomorrow, I have afeeling.   My three‑year‑old has got enough energy to power a city.   It's kind of crazy to watch him run around.   
Tiger and I were talking about in this morning, how much energy our kids have and how much we don't.   So it's going to be kind of fun to go back and play with my little guy and have some fun.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT