SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 3, 2017
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That was some sort of Friday work.  
ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah, it was a lot of fun.  Birdied the first, birdied the second, got off to the same start I did yesterday.  I really didn't swing it as good as I wanted to off the tee.  I was hitting some squirrelly shots, but the putter worked really well today, which can cure a lot of things.   
 Q.  Conditions this morning, it was tough out there?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah, it wasn't easy.  I thought we were going to kind of get the bad end of the draw with the wind yesterday and this morning, but it kind of died down a little bit on the front for us.  But I was hitting it solid, and I was making putts.  I hit a lot of really good pitch shots, blocked it on 16, made a great birdie there, good two-putt on 17, and 18 I had a little boo-boo, hit it in the greenside bunker and made a dumb play, tried to hit it at the flag, I should have just hit it out to the front of the fairway.  But all in all, great days, eight birdies in the wind, and made a lot of good putts, hit everything where I was looking today with the putter, and that doesn't happen very often, so I'm going to cherish this one.   
 Q.  On a day like today, attitude surely plays a big part, right?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS: You know, it's attitude and playing in wind a lot.  I've been playing professionally for 20 years, and I know that you can't speed up, and when you take things a lot slower, I always listened to Freddie when he told me, when it's breezy, swing easy.  I do have the best job in the world, for me.  This is all I can do.  Playing golf for a living is a blessing, and the family loves me, so everything is good.   
 Q.  Quick thoughts on how the golf course is playing and what it might do this afternoon?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS: It's going to be pretty hard, especially I was talking to you about that pin on 7, down and off the left at that back left flag.  It's going to get firm, and it's going to get nasty.  I hope it doesn't blow too hard so they take them off the golf course, but it's going to play tough.  If it keeps gusting like it does, there's going to be a lot of high numbers, and somebody shoots under par, they're going to go right up the leaderboard.   
 Q.  Blustery morning here at TPC Summerlin, yet you were able to attack this course.  What was the approach today?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS: You know, I just wanted to hit fairways.  I didn't really do that good a job of that, but I had a lot of good chips and pitches.  My short game was solid today.  My putting was probably the best I've putted in a long time, maybe besides Canada when I went crazy.  It was definitely just to survive, and I ended up making eight birdies.  I had a boo-boo on 18, but all in all, great day.   
 Q.  You make that double on 18, your ninth hole of the day.  How did you finish strong?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS: You know, I made a 10-footer for double, and I wasn't even fazed by it.  I went and gave a couple kids a high five and thanked the volunteers for coming and just forgot about it.  I hit a really good shot on the par-3, No. 5, hit a good shot object No. 3, as well.  Both 7-irons, one of my favorite clubs in the bag, so it was kind of nice to be hitting that club into that wind, and it was nice.  I had a fun day with Scott and Alex, and hopefully it continues.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT