WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 23, 2013
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   In your hometown of Phoenix a couple weeks ago, it was prophetic where you said look out for me or almost suggesting you might win this thing.   How did you know that?   How can you say with confidence something like that?   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   You know, it's just the format.   I make a lot of birdies, and if the guy I'm playing with doesn't make a lot of birdies, he's in trouble because I'm going to make some.   I missed a lot of short putts today, too.   I stuffed it on almost every single hole, put a lot of pressure on Freddie.   It was a great match.   He came back.   I made a couple bad swings on 11, 12 and 13, he birdied all of them.   Neither one of us made a bogey today until he made one there on 17.   It's just the nature of the beast.   I make a lot of birdies, and if I hit it straight, I'm not going to make many mistakes, so it's definitely a good format for me.  
   
 Q.   What does the next 36 hours mean to you?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   You know, it's great.   I've never gotten to play in this championship, so I'm taking advantage of it.   I have to play well in the next match or I'm gone.   It's kind of cool, like every match is Sunday, and that's the way I'm looking at it.   I always expect to have to make every single putt, so when I get one, it's a bonus.   It's just been a lot of fun.   
   
 Q.   You were 3‑up in the match and it got back to level.   Tell us about the tee shot at 15.   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah, my caddie was laughing because I hit it so hard.   He said, I don't think I've ever seen a golf ball come off that fast on any club I've ever seen.   That was kind of fun.   I hit it right at the flag.   I don't know how far it went, probably 340 up the hill.   It was a great swing.   It gave me a 2‑up advantage.   Unfortunately missed that putt on 16 and didn't play 17 very well, and I got away with one.  
   
 Q.   You came into the week saying you're playing better than anyone, you've made 19 birdies and eagles.   What's clicked?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   I've been playing like this all year, just a couple bad breaks here and there.   I think I finished 16th in the first event, 6th in the second, 11th in the third and 22nd at Pebble with a 9 on 14, so I knew I was playing well getting here.   I make six, seven birdies a round in the desert most of the time, because I hit it so far and I can get to the par‑5s and take advantage of it.   So I was really chomping at the bit to get here and have some fun, and I am.   
   
 Q.   Matt Kuchar this afternoon.   Thoughts on that one?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Should be a lot of fun.   Matt is very consistent.   I'm going to have to play well.   I'll probably have to shoot 6‑, 7‑, 8‑under again because I'm swinging it well and rolling it well, so it should be a lot of fun.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT