WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2013
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DOUG MILNE:   Robert Garrigus, thanks for joining us after a successful 3 & 2 win after final No.1 seed Louis Oosthuizen.   Just some comments on the match.   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   My past two matches I've came out hot, and I kind of gave away two holes there early, started out birdie‑birdie again, kind of had my foot on his throat and three‑putted the next two holes for bogey and let him back into it.   I was really striking it well today.   I had fun.   
Louis is a great guy, and so is Branden Grace.   Those South African guys are good guys and nice people, and it's always fun to play with guys that are cordial and like to have a bit of fun.   It was really nice out there today.   
   
 Q.   I ask this because you took out the last top seeded guy in the bracket.   Is that a bit of a misnomer when it comes to golf?   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah, and I felt like I was playing better than anybody coming in here, so whatever seed it was didn't matter if he was 15 or 1, I felt like I was going to beat him.   It's just the confidence that I have right now, and that's a good thing to have, especially when your opponent sees you're confident and they think they can't mess up, otherwise you're going to win a hole.   Louis played great.   I think he was 4‑ or 5‑under, I was 6‑ or 7‑under.   We had a good match.   It was a lot of fun.   I'm playing well, except for one hole at Pebble Beach that I probably had a couple top 5s and a couple top 15s at the beginning of the year.   I didn't let that affect me and I came out firing this week, and it's working.  
   
 Q.   So in your mind you were a top seed?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   To me.   A 9 seed, I didn't care what I was.   I looked at all the guys in my bracket, and I was like, I can beat him, I can beat him, and I can beat him.   If I'm playing well and putting well‑‑ if I'm putting well, I'm going to be hard to beat, and a lot of guys will tell you that, too, because I hit the ball in the fairway, because these fairways are huge, and if I can keep it out of the bushes, I'll be all right out here.   There's some nasty ones out there.   
   
 Q.   Colsaerts, Piercy and you and a couple other guys who really bomb it are doing well.   How much of that has to do with the course, do you think?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   You know, a lot of it.   Also, we can bomb it all we want, but if we don't make putts, it doesn't matter.   Piercy is a phenomenal putter, and he's a great guy.   He's a very underrated player.   As is Colsaerts, he bombs it.   He hits it farther than both of us.   Our lines are a lot different out here, so when we take it over bunkers or take it over the desert or whatnot, it kind of puts an onus on the opponent to hit the shot in first, and we've got shorter clubs.   But you've still got to make the putts.   It's all about rolling it out here.   It doesn't matter how far you hit it.   
I'm putting well, Piercy is and obviously Colsaerts is, as well.   Hopefully we can all get down to the final four and see what happens.   It would be a lot of fun.   
   
 Q.   On TV the last few days they've talked about sort of the art of conceding putts, and not you specifically, but is it an art or a science?   When do you give and not give?   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   I saw Charles give Tiger about a three and a half, four‑footer yesterday, and that surprised me.   I don't care who you are, I'm going to make you putt a three and a half footer.   It's just match play.   I planned on the whole day not getting one putt, so when you get one, it's a bonus.   If not, your mindset is I was going to have to putt it anyways.   And that's my mindset.   
But some guys are like, hey, pick that up, and it's like two feet.   I know Louis, we didn't have any spots out there today where it was like why is he making me putt this kind of thing.   We might in a couple days if I keep going, but if you don't know about the nerves of a guy, you don't know what they're thinking.   I plan on going all day having to make every single putt that I look at.   If I get one, then it's close enough and that's good.   I don't know if there's an art, but I always look at it as I'm going to have to putt everything.   That's probably a good mindset because if you're thinking you should get one and you don't and then you miss it, you look at the guy, it's a mental thing.   
I always look like I have to make it, and if it's inside of two feet, usually I'd be like, get it out of here.   But if it's over two and a half, three feet, anything can happen.   
   
 Q.   Because of the worst thing that can happen is you lose a hole, how much differently are you playing this course than if it was a stroke‑play event?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   It's so much fun.   It is an absolute blast to be able to step on the tee and say I'm going to swing as hard as I can, and if I make a 9, who cares.   It's so much fun.   It gets me into a great mindset because I make aggressive golf swings, and if I make aggressive golf swings I don't hit it offline.   It's when you try and steer you hit it offline.   I can make a 10, who cares, I'm going to the next hole, it's only one hole.   It's awesome to tell you the truth.   I haven't played in match play since I was 17.   I won the Oregon Junior Match Play, I won my last match like 8 & 7.   I think I won it in the last 18 holes against Michael Weimer.   I'll never forget it.   That was my last match play when I was 17.   It's a fun, fun format for me, especially if I'm rolling it well, and I am.   
I think it's a blast.   
   
 Q.   Playing off that, were you excited coming in here a couple weeks, to get to play match play again, and was it something that was on your mind a lot?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   You have no idea.   I was really nervous yesterday along with a lot of other guys because it's the first day.   You don't want to get bounced on the first day.   And I started out 4‑up or 5‑up through nine, and I'm like, okay, I kind of settled down.   I've been chomping at the bit to play in this tournament since I turned professional because I love match play.   Being able to make confident swings and put pressure on your opponent, I might play bad and lose a match or I might play well and lose a match, you just never know, and that's the coolest thing about it.   Tiger played a phenomenal round of golf yesterday and lost.   That's just the nature of the beast.   
I was really looking forward to getting into this tournament, and I finally played well enough last year and had four second places on TOUR and won overseas, kept my World Ranking where it needed to be, and it's fun to be here, especially when I'm 90 miles from home.   That makes it a lot easier, knowing that my family is just up the street kind of.   I was really looking forward to coming here, and I'm playing well.   It's been a lot of fun.   
DOUG MILNE:   Robert, congratulations.   Keep it up.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT