CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
November 11, 2012
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Robert, good run on a Sunday.   You got it going early, gave a little of it back and then made a charge on the back side.
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah, I kind of lost my golf swing there for a few holes, kind of got a little flustered with some putts.   I was hitting it right where I wanted it, just couldn't get the right reads.
I made a good one on 9 for par, and just my stroke freed up and I made a great swing on 10 and was piping it after that and didn't miss a shot from then on in.   That was another great tournament, another second place.   This is No. 5 for the year.   Almost made four million bucks, and it's a pretty special year.   I wish I would have got the win, though.

Q.   Now, if I'd have told you all of that back in January that you're going to make four million bucks and you're kid's going to have fun with a mouse at the end of the year, you'd be pretty happy with that?
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Absolutely.   I just didn't get that win this year.   Every major I'm in the World Golf Championships and that's the most important thing, just getting chances and trying to capitalize.

Q.   You're going to Augusta.   How much fun is that going to be?   That course should set up well for you?
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah, last year I was kind of flying in the dark with the long putter, but now I got the short putter.   Augusta is going to be a blast and so is every other major in the new World Golf Championships, that's going to be a lot of fun.   I'm really looking forward to next year.   Should be a lot of fun.

Q.   You're more confident with every one of these, too.   You knew you were right there.   Even when you were three or four back, you knew you still had time?
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah, I never gave up.   I never do give up.   That's one of my mottos is just keep going, having fun with it.   You never know what's going to happen, you know, and I started making some putts and hitting some great shots, and it's just one of those things, you just gotta keep going and see what happens.

Q.   Well, congratulations on a terrific year.   Can't wait for 2013.
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Me neither. 

Q.   Robert, was there anything on the Back 9 you saw Charlie make double there, that you thought maybe I have a chance if I finish strong coming in?
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah, maybe.   I needed to put a little bit more pressure on him.   I didn't birdie any of the last three holes.   If I birdie one or two of those, it might have been a different story.   You just never know.   And I was trying to, but just didn't.   It was unfortunate, I stuffed it on 17 there and had a really hard putt for hitting it in there to 10 feet.   It broke about a foot and a half.   That was a tough one to make.   It was just unfortunate, but congratulations to Charlie if he finishes this thing off, and God bless him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT