CIMB CLASSIC
October 26, 2012
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What number will it take to win this tournament?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   22‑, 23‑under par, maybe.   I don't know.   I'm going to try to get to 30 if I can if that's possible.   I don't know if it is.   But I'm having fun, that's all that matters.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   The most I went ‑‑ the beginning of this year I started the first tournament of the year at Bob Hope.   I was 6‑over par through eight holes of the tournament and played the next 54 holes 32‑under par.   So I can do it.   I just need to do it on the weekend when it counts.   
Like I said, I'm two shots ahead of the field right now.   That means nothing.   I'll probably be tied for the lead or behind before I get on the tee box tomorrow.   That happens a lot.   I've just got to go out and have fun, enjoy it and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   For me it is.   Even when I'm playing bad, I don't like to get upset.   I'll treat the fans like they're supposed to be treated.   I'll talk to them and thank the volunteers.   I've always been that way.   I don't know how the other players receive it.   I think most of them think it's fake just because I'm trying to be nice to everybody, but it isn't.   
You know, it's really one of the things I try to do if I'm playing bad.   I'll try to be more nice than I am.   Because if I'm in the hunt, I'm focused.   I'm thinking about the shot ahead.   If I thank a volunteer after a bad shot, that's kind of a stress relief for me.   I always like to have fun.   I'm singing on the golf course and joking with my caddy and sometimes I'm not as serious as I should be.  
But having fun on the golf course is easy.   Even if you're playing bad, I always tell everybody it's harder to be nice than it is to throw a fit.   I've always tried to be nice to everybody, especially the fans.   They're out there to watch us.   They pay good money to come out and watch us play golf.   They're supposed to go out and have fun and watch the show.   I try to bring that to them as well.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   About 18?   Yeah, that was the first chip I've had all day.   I was hitting it inside of 5 feet, 6 feet, 10 feet.   I had an easy chip on 15, but that's only time I had a chip all day.   I'm sitting over it like, well, I had a pretty tight lie, even though it's preferred.   I was trying to hit a little spinner in there.   I landed it short, and it spun.   
The putt I just waved at.   I saw how much it was breaking.   It was breaking about a foot, and I just came out of it.   It was just a bad hole.   The tee shot wasn't bad.   The problem was the second shot.   I misjudged the lie.   I thought it was going to jump and go to the front of the green just like Jeff's did.   And it kind of came out spinning and landed short.   I was like, oh, it's not too hard of a chip but I hadn't hit one all day.   That's probably what got me.   Felt like the first green I missed all day, I think.   That was a little frustrating, but all in all, it was a great day.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   The thing is it doesn't matter.   It's Friday.   If that was Sunday, and I was tied for the lead, I would have been trying to chip that ball in, and I probably would have been more aggressive like you said.   But it's Friday.   I mean, it's hot.   I wanted to get in.   I wanted to get some air conditioning.  
   
 Q.   When you're playing good, do you feel you can beat anybody?   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Absolutely.   I feel like if I'm putting well, I mean, no disrespect to anybody on the PGA TOUR.   They're all great players.   But I feel like I can beat anybody in the world.   I've played with Tiger.   I've played with Rory in the TOUR Championship.   I hit it just as good as those guys.   It's just the short game.   
But if I'm putting well and if I keep putting like this on the weekend, it's going to be hard to catch me.   That is the only thing I've got to focus on is making putts, because I'm going to hit it good.   I've always hit it well.   
I do have a very high confidence level right now.   I had one of the best years of my career.   I'm having fun, having a good time with it.   A lot of my hard work is paid off and that's nice to see.   A lot of time in the gym.   I lost 30 pounds from last year.   I'm just a completely different person.   So confidence level is high, and I feel like I can beat anybody, doesn't matter who I'm playing.   
I finished fourth in that last event, and it was Rory, Phil, Tiger, and they were all right next to me.   I was staring them down.   That's a good feeling.  
   
 Q.   Is there a difference between who you play with?   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   No, some guys you have more fun with.   I played with a kid yesterday, Gaganjeet Bhullar.   He was a phenomenal player.   I think he was nervous, and it's probably good for him to play with me because I was keeping him loose all day.   We had a lot of fun.   He's a good kid.   
I don't know who I'll be paired with tomorrow.   Kruger?   It's going to be Kruger.   I've never played with him before.   So hopefully we can cut it up a little bit, have some fun and we'll see.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT