BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 8, 2012
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Robert, breeze changes 180 and you don't make a bogey.   That's a nice adjustment.   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah, I could have saved a couple more today, too.   I missed some short ones to start off, hit the par‑5 in two, three‑putted, but I stayed patient.   I've been really comfortable with that putter, that new putter, and I just need today see one go in, and I finally got the eagle putt to go in.   That was a big one.   And then the next two putts on 16 and 17 were right in the jar.   I thought I made one on 18, just misread it.   But great finish, we've got one more day, and I'm looking forward to it.  
   
 Q.   I would imagine you're pretty juiced because you really didn't have much going until you go eagle‑birdie‑birdie there late in the round.   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah, I've done that before.   Tampa I did that, birdied four of the last five holes, and nobody was making anything.   It was a nice, refreshing way to finish after not making anything all day.   
   
 Q.   You were 31 coming in this week.   You know that.   I think you're on the safe side obviously right now.   You need to stay there.   On a Sunday will that be a thought in your mind at all?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   You know, I'm going to go try to win the golf tournament, and if I don't, if I fall just short, then I'll be fine.   I can't go out thinking I need to do this, I need to do that.   That's not how I'm thinking.   I'm a little more experienced than that, and I'll go out and try and fire at it and make birdies and eagles, and we'll see what happens.  
   
 Q.   I think if you win the golf tournament, that would take care of things.   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   That would take care of a lot, absolutely.  
   
 Q.   Tell me about the putter now.   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   You know, I really decided to do something I've never done before, and that's go to a regular length putter.   If I could just stroke it under pressure the way I wanted to, it was going to be good because I've never tried it before.   It's 33 inches, it's six inches longer, and it's rolling great.   I lost confidence with the long one, and as soon as I saw them going in last week, and I thought, man, if I could just start hitting it good, because I didn't hit it great last week, so I'm hitting it good this week, and they're going in, and it's nice.  
   
 Q.   14 out of 18 greens.   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah, it was a good day, just started out a little shaky with the putter, but I was hitting it great all day, been hitting it great all week.   I fixed something in my swing, got my iron play back to where it has been all year, and got to see a couple putts go in.   As soon as they dropped, I started rolling, which is nice.   It's just confidence.   It was a lot of fun.   
   
 Q.   What's the game plan for tomorrow?   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Go as low as I can.   There's a lot of birdies being made out here.   The golf course is not playing easy today.   There's just a lot of good golf by a lot of good players.   The top 50 in the world are out here, and they're pretty good.   I'm going to have to have an equally good round tomorrow and go have fun, and we'll see what happens.   
   
 Q.   Do you have a pretty good feeling going into tomorrow?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah, absolutely.   My wife is here, my baby is here, I get to have fun with them.   I don't really think about golf off the golf course, so when I get here tomorrow I'm sure I'll get juiced up and ready to go, and we'll go have some fun.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT