RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 29, 2012
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   If I'd have told you that on Thursday, you would be walking away with a big check, wouldn't you?   You would think anyway.  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Absolutely.   You know, I should have won this golf tournament by seven shots.   Everybody knows that.   If I could have just made a putt today.   I don't know.   It just wasn't starting on my lines.   I hit a couple too firm and then I hit a couple too soft.   I just couldn't get the feel for it.   
Finally got one to go on 14 there and thought I was going to get rolling and left that one on short on 15.   Didn't birdie 17.   A bad tee shot.   It's one of my only drivers I hit off line all week.   Had to be there.  
Then made a good effort on 18 with my two shots and then lagged it up there for a nice second place.   It was great.  
   
 Q.   At what point did the putter early in the round start to bother you that, hey, there's something wrong today?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Probably on 8 when I hit that.   But I had so many easy putts today.   8, 9.   I hit six feet on every hole it felt like today.  
So I didn't hit it quite as good, but I was hitting it close, and that shot on 18 was exactly what I was looking for, and I just needed to hit it a little harder, unfortunately.   So we'll see how it goes from here.  
   
 Q.   Happy with the way you managed yourself otherwise?   You played great?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   I did play great.   It's a lot of fun to be able to do what we do, and that's what we live for, having to birdie the last hole to get in the playoff or win the golf tournament.   That's all I can ask.   I just left it a bit short, and I'm sure I'll be thinking about that one.  
   
 Q.   The folks up in Canada love you.   You returned the love to them all week long.  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah.   You know, the fans up here are amazing.   There's nothing like standing around the last hole with 10, 15,000 people around the green.   That gets me going.  
I hit two good shots in there on 18.   Left it short a hair.   I wish I would have gave it just a little bit extra, it would have went right in the middle.  
The fans here are great.   RBC's been a great host this week, and you know, everything was great this week.   It was awesome.  
   
 Q.   What's next for you?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Hopefully next week, I don't know if I'm in the Firestone.   I don't know if that got me in.   I'm not sure.  
   
 Q.   I doubt it.  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   I don't think so.   There's a lot of scenarios, but I don't know if it got me in.   If not, I'm going to take a week off.     
   
 Q.   You tucked the ball beautifully.   And you talked all week long that you live by the putter, you die by the putter.   Unfortunately today the putter didn't cooperate.  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah.   You know, I don't think I was thinking about what I was thinking about the past three days with the putter.   
We just talked about it.   My chest is moving and I'm still getting used to it.   Like the 18th, 19th golf tournament with the thing.   So the more and more I play, the more and more under pressure I get, I think I'm going to get more comfortable it and it's going to be a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   One thing about you, you'll take the positives out of whatever happens to you and build on it.   What are you going to take out of this week?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   I shot 16‑under in a national open with two bogeys.   And I striked my driver all week.   That back tee shot on 17 was a bad bounce.   I thought it was.   I'm just going to take the positives.   I had a lot of fun.   The fans were great.   RBC did a great job this week.   It's been a lot of fun this week, and walking up and down these hills was fun.   I'm pretty happy.  
   
 Q.   Lastly, your putt on 18 to potentially get in the playoff, just more of the same of what you were experiencing all day long?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah.   I just needed to give it a little hit.   I rolled it.   I didn't hit it.   I needed to hit it.   And I was a little nervous, but I was confident on had my line and rolled it right over it.   Just needed to hit it a little harder.   That kind of sucked.   If I would have had a downhill putt there, I probably wouldn't have left it short.   But hit two good shots in there and tried to finish it off.   
It was unfortunate.   T2 again.   That's the third one for the year.   I'm not going to let it bother me.   I'm going to get back out and the PGA, I think that golf course sets up pretty good for me, so I'm looking forward to it.  
   
 Q.   Thank you very much, Robert.   Another great tee to green game pretty much out there, but unfortunately the putter looked like it let you down.   Is that it essentially?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah, absolutely.   The putter just let me down, and it wasn't the putter.   It was me.   I wasn't anchoring it the right way because I usually have my thumb over it so it's not touching my chest.   It was touching my chest, and I was moving my chest, so I was making the putter head manipulate.   Shoveling putt for dough.   I lost a lot of dough by not making the putts today.  
But it was a great week.   I made two bogeys all week.   If you'd have told me at the beginning of the week, I would have taken it.   Had a lot of fun.   Fans were great.   RBC did a great job this week, and I'm very blessed to be able to do what I do.   And T second is not that bad a deal, but I really could have had this one by a lot.  
   
 Q.   Did you struggle with that anchoring part throughout the day?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah.   And it's kind of frustrating to hear that they're going to that away because it's automatic.   I'd have shot 45 under if it was automatic this week.   It's kind of funny because there's a certain way to hold it where it doesn't anchor in your chest, and that's the way I usually do it, I had my thumb in the way.   And I could feel it.   It was in my chest.   I could feel the putter.   Nothing was right with it, and it kind of sucks, but whatever.   I hit it so good.   I made two bad swings all day, and there's nothing I can do about it now.   It was a great week.   I had fun, and now I'll go enjoy maybe a week off.   I don't know if I got into Akron or not, but take a week off and get ready for the PGA.  
   
 Q.   As well as you say you're striking it right now, do you feel like it's just a matter of time before you can get another W?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   100 percent.   I don't know if there's any way I could be hitting better.   I mean if you play with me I'm hitting it down the gut, 350, straight.   I'm hitting my wedges close.   And I'm having fun, too.   I can't wait to get to Kiawah.   There's going to be a little pressure there because I'm going to have to hit the driver really well.   I'm looking forward to it.   It's going to be a lot of fun.   
Kiawah is a great, great area.   We've got a house there.   The family is going to be there.   I'm looking forward to the next four or five weeks here out on TOUR with Beth page and crooked stick.   There's a lot of golf courses I need to drive it well, and I'm looking forward to it.  
   
 Q.   We walked probably 14 holes with you, and it seemed like that must have been a frustrating one for you.   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   There was no way I was shooting over par, that's for sure.  
   
 Q.   Absolutely not.   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   It was a great ball‑striking round.   I just didn't have the putter today.   It was kind of frustrating.   My anchor spot was wrong on it today.   I didn't have it where I usually had it all week.   It was a little lower and it was manipulating the face.   It's going to be kind of interesting to see the R&A.   It's one of those things.   I didn't make enough.   I needed to make two.  
   
 Q.   You made the bogey on 16.   Did you push it on 17 thinking you had to get it way down there to give that one a go?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Put the gas?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah.   I just tried to hammer that one and laid back on it a little bit.  
   
 Q.   It went to the left.   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah.   It went to the left, but that was the only bad tee shot I hit all week, and it was unfortunate.   I should have probably just calmed down a little bit and hit a normal shot.   I'd have had 5‑iron in, so I'll learn from that and go on from there.  
   
 Q.   15 you hit a monster drive and must have thought, gees, here's my opportunity, and didn't get it in.   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Well, that was the problem.   I hit it way too far.   And I had to bounce it into the slope and check it and roll that thing.   
Wow, that ball went far.   I don't know.   360, whatever it went.   That went a long ways, a lot further than I thought it was going to.   I thought I was going to have an 80‑yard shot, perfect, fly it in there and spin it.  
   
 Q.   Is the golf course too short?   Is this too short when it's firmer?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   No.   Not really.   Because they cut you off on a lot of holes, like 18 I hit 4‑iron, 9‑iron.   Brent and I were like how many people do you think are going to bark at you if you let me pull driver out here and hammer it over the ditch.  
But yeah, it was fun.   Had a great week.   I made two bogeys, and it was a lot of fun this week and I enjoyed it for sure.  
   
 Q.   How different was the golf course today compared to the other days?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   It was a little firmer.   There was some shots skipping, a couple of shots that I thought I hit behind the hole, pin high were all the way past it.   I tried to keep it underneath the hole all day.   I did a pretty good job of it.   I hit a lot of shots close and just could not get a putt to go.   That was the most frustrating part about this week.   It was unfortunate that I didn't win, but what the hell.  
   
 Q.   How would you describe the pin placements today?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   They were awesome.   It's the way they should be on Sunday.   They should be hard.   They didn't want it to get too crazy.   I'm sure they didn't want to see 20‑under win.   And that's how it went.   I really should have been about 23, I think, the way I hit it.   
I'm kind of frustrated about that, but it was a great week, made half a million bucks.   
   
 Q.   If you look into the membership here at Hamilton, would you be disappointed about your score today?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   No.   I'd embrace it.   I'd say these guys are the best in the world.   If the weather wasn't the way it was, it would have been probably 12 to 13‑under.   Maybe less, because the rough was thick.   The fairways were running through the rough a lot.  
I'd say a great tournament.   I appreciate the members having us out here, too.   It's a great place.  
   
 Q.   How do you stay so loose, even with the frustration?   You still didn't seem to get too bothered by it.   You were still thanking the volunteers as you went around and acknowledging the crowd, which a lot of them don't do?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   It's just golf.   This isn't important.   Life's important.   Family's important.   How I act on the golf course is more important than how I play.   And that's how I've always been, and it's unfortunate that I didn't make any putts, but like I said, what the hell.   It's golf.  
   
 Q.   18, 19 events with the into the chest now.   You say you got the position a little bit wrong.   How do you get the position wrong?   Is that just one of those things where today it just didn't feel right or is it one of those things that you're trying to learn still?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   It's a four‑letter word called golf.   Unfortunately, if it was that easy, Tiger would still be winning nine times, ten times a year.   You know, it's just hard.   There's a lot of pressure.   Felt like I handled the pressure pretty good.   But just the putter, it was just not rolling the way I wanted to.   It was coming off left and some were coming off right.   It was unfortunate to have it happen today.   Wish it would have happened on Thursday, not today.  
   
 Q.   So you didn't feel like you had the right spot?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Well, I normally have my thumb over it, and for some reason today I could feel the putter in my chest, and I usually don't have it that way because it's got a little bit of play when it's not really tight.   Might have been leaning on it a little bit too much, but you know, I'm learning with it.   I've only played 18 tournaments with the thing, and I've made two million dollars.   So that's not bad.   I should have won three times this year.   This won I should have won by a lot.   I just needed to make a few putts.   
You know, like I said, it's just golf.   We get to play for a living and I'll be better from it.  
   
 Q.   I gotta ask one more thing.   I gotta ask you about Nelly.   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Oh, that bulldog is awesome.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT