JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2012
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Pretty good to finish a round that way. 
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah, absolutely.   Actually on 16 I looked at my caddie and I'm like, Well, we'll get the next three.   He's like, Well, let's get four on the next three.   I kind of got a little spark from that. 
I hit close on 16.   On 17 I actually pulled my tee shot into the tee, dropped straight down.   I had 285 to the hole.   I hit 5‑wood about 25, 30 feet and canned it.   I thought I birdied 18 there as well.   Putt hit something and bounced offline.
Yeah, it was a great finish to a pretty solid day.   I didn't make a bogey.   Hit one bad shot today and I got away with 6‑under.

Q.   How important is it to get off to a good start like that?   You're one back at this point and you've got an afternoon round tomorrow. 
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   That's the thing.   You don't want to get too far behind the eight ball out here.   It gets pretty crazy.   20‑, 25‑, sometimes 26‑under wins out here. 
It's nice to get off to a good start.   I haven't really ever got off to a good start here, so it's nice to get this one it. 
We'll see what happens tomorrow when the ball is traveling forever.

Q.   How did you feel about with your game coming in?
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Felt great.   Finished fourth at Congressional.   Completely different golf.   Out here you're looking for birdies on every hole; out there you're looking for pars and maybe you can squeak a birdie out of it. 
So I felt great about my game.   I've been playing well all year.   30th in the FedExCup.   My world ranking is higher than it's ever been.   I've got a lot of confidence.
I'm having fun, too.   That's the biggest part.   When you're having fun with your caddie and the people and the crowd, it's makes it a lot easier to play golf.

Q.   Because it's a little bit softer out there, is the putting essential?
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah, absolutely.   I was telling somebody earlier, I mean, I could have been 5‑under through 6 no problems at all and I was 1.   I missed a bunch of short putts early, but I made 'em late, which is always fun when it counts. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT