TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 18, 2012
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What a finish, that's supposed to be a snake strap.   You charmed it?
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah, I definitely had the venom.   It was a lot of fun.   I didn't make really anything until last week.   The last two rounds, I started rolling it really good.   Brent and my caddie, worked on the round after Friday.   I hit it so good all week, and they started going in, thank goodness, on the last four or five holes.   That was a lot of fun.   
It kind of all got started with a 90‑footer on 5 for eagle.   I hit it in two and we really got going from there, then chipped in on 7 out of the bunker, and, man, it just kind of kept snowballing.   I made a bogey, 3‑putted there.   But came back strong with four birdies. 

Q.   John Daly told me earlier in the week, his young son is his new putting coach.   You just picked yours up.   He's a little younger than John, junior, about a year old?
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   He's 18 months.   He can still use my old putters, though. 

Q.   But not the new one.   You really got it going today. 
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   That's why I switched, because under pressure it's a lot easier to handle when I made to make a stretch, and I did today. 

Q.   You're tied for second with a runner‑up at the Humana Challenge at your first start of the year, and since then you have not played your best golf.   Is today a surprise to you?
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   No, I've been hitting it well all week.   I have been really striking it well and I've been really striking it well and I just needed the putter to wake up and it came through for me today.   It was a lot of fun. 

Q.   17, what do you see?
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   It was about a 30 footer and it broke three or four times and it was perfect speed and just buried it right in the back of the heart.   I got pretty excited for that one.   It's been a while since I made a long one like that.   That was a lot of fun. 
The last was a little 125‑yard shot, little pitching wedge, took the spin off of it and hit it in there perfect.   I was thinking I just needed an uphill putt, wanted to leave it short left and that's exactly where I put it.   It broke about a cup to the right, just state of mind calm and rolled it right on my line and rolled it right in the middle.

Q.   Is 13‑under enough?
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   I'm going to stick around but I think the guys have too many holes left.   The wind switched on 16 to go down instead of in.   It's going to be close, but all in all it was a good week, I had a lot of fun.   My family was here, this is a great place, the Copperhead Course is a great plates today and Innisbrook Resort treats us really well.   It's a lot of fun to play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT