HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 22, 2012
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.     Talk about having to get up this morning after playing so well yesterday, having all that momentum broken, and then come out and try to make something happen.  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   It's kind of a new me this year.   And in the past I've always not dealt well with the breaks and coming back out and trying to keep the momentum going.   
But I got right back out at it and holed that 25, 30‑footer up the hill, hit it right in the center of the hole.   That was a lot of fun.   
I'm starting to work out and I got the long putter rolling and it's going to be fun this year.   
   
 Q.   You make that birdie at 5 and then another one at 7.   And then you got a par‑5, an easy par‑4.   Is the thought creeping into your head, this could be the number?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   A hundred percent.   I was thinking eagle the whole way.   We took out driver, I hammered it down the right side and it just kicked right instead of left.   I wasn't nervous, I was just pumped up.   
And then hit a great shot in there, over the side slope with a 5‑iron from 206, and just, I knew that if I birdied the last two holes I was going to shoot 59.   
So I hammered that thing to make sure it got there and just misread it a bit.   But made a couple really good par putts coming down there on my 18th hole.   So very pleased with the way today went.  
   
 Q.   I was going to say, a guy stands on the tee on the 18th hole, one of the longest hitters on tour, you hit iron.   You played smart.   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   Yeah, you know and that's the thing, I hit my 3‑iron 260 yards, so I was thinking 3‑iron, 9‑iron or 3‑iron, wedge and I would try and hole the damn thing and see what happens.   
And I just hit it a little fat.   I didn't hit it hard enough, I was kind of counting for the adrenaline to kick in and it didn't, so great bunker shot and a great up‑and‑down.   
   
 Q.   The long putter, Brent said you left some shots out there.   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   My coach was talking to me and my caddie was talking to me, he's like, you could have shot 25 on the front.   And the putts that I missed, just lipped out or came right back at me.   
And that one was an eagle putt and the other two just horseshoed.   So it could have been something crazy.   But it was crazy, 61's pretty dang good in a PGA TOUR event.  
   
 Q.   Now you got to dial back the adrenaline and save it for the final round.   
ROBERT GARRIGUS:   That's the thing.   I'm a new guy, I'm going to go in and eat and work out and stretch again and I'll be ready, I'll be focused for the next round and this one didn't exist.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT