JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
September 29, 2011
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 5-under par, that's pretty impressive for a guy that's been in the hospital the last couple of days. 
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: I've played this golf course a bunch, I have absolutely no expectations whatsoever. I wanted to come out and do my job, and ended up birdieing the first hole and was like, here we go. I was swinging it really well and putts were rolling in, and one of those days I was just trying to stay hydrated, because I didn't know if I would be able to complete the round.
 I ended up feeling pretty strong out there. I didn't expect that. 

 Q. Was the dehydration, is that why you were in the hospital?
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Heat stroke and dehydration. They pumped me for three bags of saline and didn't go to the bathroom and they said I was pretty close to the edge. Just coming over here, thank goodness the PGA TOUR was kind enough to me to let me miss the Pro-Am and play in the tournament. They usually don't do that. I have to thank them for that. 

 Q. Thanks for visiting with us. Get some fluids and rest, you're going to be in the hot wave tomorrow. 
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah, it's going to be a lot of fun. I'll give get some grease in me and hopefully go out and have some fun tomorrow. 

 Q. How did you know you were getting to the point where you needed to go to the hospital? 
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: I felt like I was having heart trouble. I was having heart palpitations; I was tired; I was light-headed. I had a lot of gas. I just felt terrible. And I was able to get into the hospital and get treatment early enough, and that was nice. They were able to take care of me and pump me full of enough fluids to where I can get back out here. 
 I woke up yesterday morning, I was still light-headed but I felt like I could get out here and play some golf. I just felt like I needed another day, and I haven't had an episode today. That was good. I stayed hydrated and that was a lot of fun.

 Q. Were you playing a lot in Phoenix?
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: I caddied for my good buddy, Jason Thompson, in pre-qualifying for the PGA TOUR at Southern Dunes, and kind of overdid it a little bit. I got him through, and then went and practiced on Monday morning with my coach, Jim Ahern, and boy, after I got done with, that I was wiped out.

 Q. So now you respect how the other side does it?
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Absolutely. My caddie will never let me live it down. It's kind of nice to be here, because I didn't think I was going to be playing this week on Monday and Tuesday, I didn't think I could play golf, so this is a bonus.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT