AT&T NATIONAL
June 30, 2011
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ROBERT GARRIGUS: You know, I hit my irons really well. I misread some putts. There are some tricky reads. I felt like I hit it okay today, hit my irons very well, like I said, and I rolled a couple long putts in. I had a 60-footer on 10 I think I made. I thought I was going to keep going from there, then had a double at 13 and 14, but all in all it was a good day.

 Q. I haven't had a chance to talk to you since the U.S. Open, and the show of emotion there coming down the stretch for you, it was fun to watch you on Sunday. 
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Well, nobody got to see the front side. I played like a dog. I really shot myself in the foot on the front, and I thought -- I birdied 10, birdied 13, bogeyed 14, birdied 15, 16 and 17, and that putt on 18 was just a culmination of the whole week, just being able to stay in it and not lose focus. 
 I was excited because I thought that putt was to get me in the Masters. I had a couple shots it turned out, but I thought I needed to make par to get in the Masters. It was kind of exciting for me to make that putt knowing I needed to make it, and to do it in front of all those people was a lot of fun.

 Q. On a golf course today that was playing tougher than that one, what positives can you take away from today?
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Anything under par today is great. It's Thursday, you can't win it today but you can lose it. It's one of those things where I figured I was going to go out and play well, and I did. I made some long putts, made a couple up-and-downs on the front nine. It was a good day, and it was beautiful today. 80 degrees and a little bit of wind, and it was very enjoyable. 

 Q. 2-under par 68, nice start. 
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah, it was a good day, made a couple long putts, missed a couple short ones. It kind of evened out, got some bad breaks, got some good breaks. It was a fun day. I had fun with Bill and we kind of gelled off each other there for a little bit and then kind of hit a lull and then he started picking up on the back. It was a good day. 

 Q. Any problems adjusting to playing in a twosome? 
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: You know, we just told a few more stories, I guess. In our group we have a few of them. We just had to slow down. It's happened before. I've been a single before and had to get a marker to come with me. It wasn't a big deal. We just kind of slowed down a little bit, and I think that helped a little bit.

 Q. What's your opinion on the golf course?
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Every player absolutely loves this place. They changed a few of the greens, a little more severe around the edges so you can hit a pretty good shot and not get rewarded, but you know where you can miss it. You can see it on the tee or on the fairway. You know where you can't hit it and you know where you can. If you hit it there you're rewarded. 
 I think all of us are very pleased with the speed of the greens. They're phenomenal and they're rolling perfect, so I think we're all very happy. 

 Q. Can you comment on the condition of this course compared to the U.S. Open?
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: You know, this golf course is a lot firmer. It's an amazing change from Tuesday. We played on Tuesday and everything was plugging, plugging. Fairways were mud balls, and now I was getting 30, 40 feet of roll and my wedges weren't even spinning on the green. The practice round was kind of pointless. The rough is thicker, and I don't think they're going to do anything about it because of the heat. But the rough is thicker here and the greens are firmer, and I don't think under double digits is going to win this week. I think right around 10-under par will get it done this week. We're going to have fun at Olympic next year.

 Q. What's been the reaction to the Open? You made a big putt at 18 obviously. Are people recognizing you? How are people reacting?
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: You know, I've had more recognition about the Open than my two seconds and my win. That was a big tournament. A lot of people that don't normally watch golf because Tiger and the big guys aren't playing, they were watching last week, and they were watching on Sunday to watch history, and I happened to pop in there for the last couple holes and get a little peek of what it's all about from not winning. 
 It was exciting, and like I was telling everybody before, I thought that putt was to get me into the Masters. I thought I needed to finish fourth, and it was a 22-footer that broke three feet, and I just buried it, and I got so excited. It was a genuine show of emotion because that's how I felt. I shot 39 on the front and 31 on the back. I don't think anybody shot 31 on the back on Sunday, so that was a lot of fun. 

 Q. You seemed to be having a lot of fun out there. Seems like you're really enjoying playing. Are you just playing well?
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: If I was 8-over I'd be the same way. I've always been that way. I've always been a guy that is not going to get down on myself or be (indiscernible). I enjoy myself. I enjoy everything that I do. I think I'm the luckiest guy on the planet to play golf for a living. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT