U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2011
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about your round, especially the great comeback on the back nine.   
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah, the front side was a disaster. I went into the water to hit a shot, ruined my wedge, got my feet wet, had to get new socks at the turn. And it was funny, the guy I went back in the clubhouse, he said, it must have been the socks, because I put new socks on and finally had dry feet and hit a great shot on 10 and kind of got lucky on 11. I wasn't hitting it good at all today. I was getting distracted, I wasn't focused.   
 But man, I made some pretty clutch putts coming down the stretch there on 15 and 16; I kind of lagged it up there and made birdie.   
 17 was a great putt.   
 And the one on 18, I'll never forget.  
  
  Q. Talk about that at 18. First of all, what a tremendous putt that was. NBC's coverage of your walk-off and the reception from the crowd, it was kind of goose-bumpy kind of stuff?  
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: It gave me goosebumps for sure. That was one of the things I will never forget. Besides it being Father's Day and to have my son there afterwards and everything, this is a pretty special day. And to make that putt, I get into Augusta, that's probably one of the coolest things I'll ever get to say is I am playing at Augusta next year.  
  
  Q. Olympic team, does that have --  
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: I don't know. I don't know the parameters of that, the qualifying for it.   
  
  Q. That was an Olympic type of putt.   
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: What the hell, that was awesome. That was a lot of fun. I sucked it up and got it done on the back side. It felt great.  
  
  Q. We were talking yesterday about the anticipation of just the sheer theater that you were about to step into, and it really is when you think about this; this is theater in a way.   
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah.  
  
  Q. You were a big part of it, sort of a historic day out there. If you can just reflect now, talking about what you anticipated, now you've had it behind you.   
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: You know, it is so cool to have that many people rooting for you. Like I said yesterday, it's better than any drug you could ever take. You can't buy it, you can't bottle it, and man, it was a lot of fun today. Gosh, I'll never forget this day for the rest of my life. It was a lot of fun.  
  
  Q. Do you think the course is set up this way so you guys are basically in a birdie battle as opposed to the old USGA way?  
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: I think this is going to be a one-time deal. I don't think the USGA is letting anybody know how upset they were about how the scores were going.   
 Next year at Olympic, I think the winning score is probably going to be about 8-over. I don't think anybody is going to shoot under par next year, and rightfully so, it's a U.S. Open. This has kind of got the weather a little rainy for us and that's unfortunate. But, man, it was great to go out and make some birdies and put on a show for the crowd, and that's what we do. That's awesome.  
  
  Q. Do you think that the character changes in a way because what made the U.S. Open distinct was literally the sweating for pars and in some ways it's obviously a test of golf but it looks now more like a regular Tour event than one of the majors?   
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah, when I looked at the board, I thought, man, I've got to shoot 6-under to finish second; that's ridiculous. Some guys had some good rounds, and the way I started was horrendous. The birdie factor out here this week, there's a lot of birdies and a couple eagles, it was a lot of fun to watch. I'm sure that was probably a fun U.S. Open to watch in terms of Rory going off the planet. I tried to have my little mini-U.S. Open and I guess I finished third instead of fourth.  
  
  Q. If someone with a crystal ball told you you'd get to 6-under and be ten strokes off the lead, what would you have said to them?  
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: I'd have asked them what they were smoking, definitely. It's unbelievable. I shot under par every day, and if you had told me I was going to do that, I might have slapped you in the face. I just didn't understand the scores.   
 Graeme McDowell said there wasn't even going to be an under par round this week or anybody finishing under par. Rory, I don't even know what he is. The top 10 had to be under par. The top 15, I think, was 2-under, and usually that's the winning score. It's just awesome. This week has just been so cool. The golf course held up perfect. The fans were awesome. There's a billion people out there. That was pretty cool, and I look forward to playing next year, too, because I get in next year, and I don't know if they're going to be so nice to me with the fairways next year.  
  
  Q. Was Thursday probably the toughest challenge?  
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: You know, yesterday was. Thursday I was striping it, Friday I was striping it, yesterday I was really nervous. And it was good nervous energy, but today I felt really confident, and then I came out like a dog. I didn't know what was going on, and then I got it together on the backside, and man, that was a lot of fun.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT