U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2011
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Start by talking about your round. What went well today?
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: I drove it well, which in the U.S. Open, that's always key. I hit my irons great. I didn't putt as well as I would have liked, but it was a great day. Under par both days in the first two rounds of the U.S. Open, I'll take it. 

 Q. Right there near the top of the leaderboard. What's it like seeing your name all the way up there?
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: You know, it's great. It's what we dream about. It's what we play for and it's what we work hard for. I'm excited to see it up there and I'd like to see it last for the rest of the weekend. Should be fun.

 Q. You're 2-under par, right there amongst the leaders, and there's a number that doesn't even look correct. Can you even fathom what he's doing out there?
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah, it's there. You've just got to make everything, and he's making everything and hitting fairways and greens. I haven't made a lot of putts, haven't made a putt outside of seven or eight feet this week, so hopefully that's coming on the weekend.

 Q. Going into the weekend trying to chase Rory with a score like that, how aggressive can you be out there?
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: You can't be aggressive out here, only in the super green light situation because there's a couple flags out there that you can't even shoot at. Even with the greens soft, it's just stupid to do that. You don't want a disaster on your card. 
 I'm going to go out and do the same thing. I hit a lot of shots close today, just didn't take advantage of it. I'm looking forward to the weekend, hitting it well. It's going to be fun. Hopefully he doesn't get too crazy on us, but if he does I'll be playing for second place, which is not bad, either. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: He's two groups behind me, and I heard, oh, here we go. It's cool to see after the Masters and what happened to him. He's a good kid. At 21 years old, I couldn't be out here. I know how hard it is to play out here, and to do what he's doing is phenomenal. It's good for the game. I mean, tearing it up like this. The golf course is very gettable today. I mean, I had at least eight looks inside of ten feet for birdie today, and I think I only made three of them or four of them. It's gettable. It's nice to see that he's doing it after the Masters and everything. He's a good kid, and we'll see what happens on the weekend.

 Q. How much did the course change from yesterday to today? 
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Unbelievable. It played a lot longer, even though I still hit 9-iron into 18. Yesterday I would have hit sand wedge. The fairways are softer, the greens are a little softer. They're a little speedier today which was nice for the pace of things. It changed a lot, and they move a lot of tees up. They moved the tee up on 9, they moved the tee up on 16, so there's going to be some low scores shot today. The USGA doesn't like hearing that. We're probably going to see some craziness tomorrow, but we'll see what happens. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT