HYUNDAI TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 9, 2011
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN BUSH: Robert, tough ending to a good week. Just get your comments.
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah, I just hit that putt too hard. I was trying to take all the break out of it, played straight and I pushed it a centimeter and it hit that lip and didn't go in. But you know what, if you had told me this, if I'd had been in a playoff with one of the best players in the world, I'd have said, hey, bring it on and we'll get 'em next week. 
 It was a great week. I mean, I shot 6-under today and was in a playoff. I felt like I won the tournament within the tournament for myself because I told myself if I could shoot six, I'm going to win, and I had a really good chance of shooting eight today. 
 Just missed that short one on 10 and then missed the eagle putt on 18 there. That's how it goes. That's golf. I've lost about 133 golf tournaments, and it's not that big a deal. I get a nice check and I get to go next week and relax and have some fun.
 JOHN BUSH: Tough start again today.
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah, the bogey was actually a pretty good bogey. Kind of got a bad break, hitting that left lip, that first hole; probably don't ever want to play again.
 But it's kind of one of those deals where it got me all week, except for the first couple of days, and you know, that's all right. I hit a good tee shot, I hit a good second shot, I hit a good first putt and the second one I just hit too hard. It happens. 

 Q. The way you kind of played 18 all week and the eagle chances, did you feel like you had an advantage and can you talk about your drive and not going for it? 
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: On 18 on the playoff, I just hit it a little bit thin. If I would have hit it like I hit my 5-wood, I would have been right where I was putting for birdie. 
 It's such a downhill slope and I didn't want to turn it over quick, so I kind of came out of it a little bit. But I did think I had an advantage there and I played my chip where I thought it was supposed to be but I had never really hit that shot before to that flag. 
 So it went straight down the hill instead of hooking to the left, and that kind of cost me. But you know, I played the exact shot. I hit it crisp and it was just -- it was a lot of fun. Being in a situation, everybody is watching you, it's a blast for us. I just thank God for everything He's given me. This is pretty cool.

 Q. It was a shootout down the stretch. Were you watching leaderboards and did you know where you were on the back nine?
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: I looked on No. 9 and I looked on 17, and I thought I was one back on 17. I was kind of listening to see if he made a birdie on 16 and 17, and I didn't hear anything. 
 So I knew I had to make eagle on the last hole to pretty much have a shot to win the tournament and then I made birdie and I was like, well, might be in a playoff and was like, well, he's going to make birdie and win the tournament. 
 But I paid attention twice. I looked on 9 and I looked on 17, because I wanted to know what was going on. I saw that Graeme shot a billion under, and that's unbelievable. He's a pretty darned good player, too. 
 Everybody was chasing us down. It was a lot of fun. I'm sure it was a lot of fun for the viewers but that as a whole hell of a lot of fun for me, too. To get into a playoff, I didn't make that three- or four-footer on the last hole, but you know, whatever. I had a great week. It was a lot of fun. 

 Q. You talked about your wedge play and what a difference it's made, but what more is there, to go to 122 in the world to what you've been doing? 
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: I think it's mental. Just knowing, thinking in my brain that I am better than everybody on the golf course; regardless if I may, I have to feel like I am better than every single person mentally and talent-wise. I just have to think that way, just knowing every single shot I'm going to hit this close, they are not going to beat me, just stuff like that, positive stuff that you have to think about regardless. 
 I hit a lot of wedges close but you still have to make the putts, too. The percentages are a lot better when you're hitting your wedges close and you have shorter putts; you're going to make more shorter putts. It's really mental more than anything. It's a lot of fun to think you're good, and actually do it. It's a blast. 

 Q. On 18, you mentioned you thought maybe in the playoff, you had an advantage; did you think a little bit differently on No. 1 with Jonathan being such a solid short game player?
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: I had the advantage there, too, regardless of how I played it. I skulked 1-down to the bottom of the hill, I had 9-iron in my hand and really, the ball took off and started spinning and I knew it was going to come up short. I knew out of that rough it was going to shoot on me and I played for that and it didn't to it. It was unfortunate, it would have landed up by the flag and went right to the hole. 
 Son that was a little frustrating. But I thought I had the advantage on 1, because I know I could get it down there and if he hit a bad one, he's going to have 4-iron in his hands. I felt like I had the advantage there, but I just hit the second putt too hard. 
 JOHN BUSH: Robert, thanks for coming by. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT