CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK CLASSIC
November 12, 2010
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Is it going to be 2011 before people stop talking about Memphis?  
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: You know, I'll never get over it. You can't get over something like that, but what you can do is you can learn from it. And that's the thing about being a professional golfer, if you let that stuff affect you, you're not going to be a professional golfer for much longer.  
 I don't dwell on it. I think about it all the time, but it's a good thing because I laugh about it and say, man, if I could have hit this shot or that shot, you know. I go over it a lot. It helps me out here to just kind of vent, you know, talk to some guys and say I choked. Whatever.  
 It doesn't really matter in the large scheme of things for me. I got a wife, I got a beautiful little baby. You know, my family's great. Everybody's healthy right now, so I'm just focusing on that.  
  
  Q. It looks like four back going into the weekend. 65 on Magnolia. You'll be on Magnolia the rest of the weekend. Give me an assessment of the game plan.   
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: You know, I gotta go put the foot to the floor, really. I can't go out and make pars and expect to do anything special. But hopefully the wind kicks up this weekend so it'll make the play a little longer. I mean I smoked the drive on 9 today and had 6-iron, almost had 200 yards.   
 So you know, I hope the wind kicks up. I hope it gets nice and dry out there so we can hit some short clubs in, and people hitting 6 and 7-irons, I'm hitting 8s, 9s and wedges.   
 So I'm really looking forward to the weekend. Got two more to go. Pretty much feeling like every day is a Sunday right now with my position on the Money List. So I'm going to go out and have some fun. My caddy and I are thinking well, and it's going to be fun.  
  
  Q. Good luck.   
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Thank you.   
  
  Q. Robert, maybe just -- you touched on it at the opening, just overall, your round today, 65 is good, but you said you didn't quite hit it that well?  
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah. You know, that's golf. Sometimes I stripe it and shoot 2-under. Really, I pardon every par-5 and had a great chance to make birdie on every single one of them today. Could have been 10 or 12 today. I missed a couple short putts on the par-5s for birdies. It seemed like the ones outside 10 feet were going in, but you know, I had a great day around the greens, and you need to do that out here regardless of how you hit it.  
  
  Q. Okay. Any highlights to the day?  
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah, I made -- on No. 10, 11, 12, the par-3, I made like a 40-footer for birdie. Then the next hole, I hit it left and had a 45-yard wedge shot out of the rough and made that. And then I made another 35, 40-footer on 17, and I made a 25, 30-footer on, I think No. 3. So the long putts were going in today. It was awesome, but I gotta shore up those shorts ones and be there for the weekend.  
  
  Q. Okay. Well, good luck to you.   
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Thanks, man.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT