WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 2, 2017
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  One bogey.  Tell me a little bit about your round.  
ROBERT GARRIGUS: You know, I really had to start off being patient.  I wasn't hitting very close and kind of two-putting.  Got up on 17, good up-and-down there.   
Then 18 made a good putt, and then it kind of got things rolling from there.  Started hitting it really close.  Hit it really close for eagle on No. 3.  Hit it to like six feet and missed it, but that was a good day.   
I was just patient all day and didn't really get frustrated and made a really good up-and-down on 7.  I short-sighted myself on that greenside bunker on the left, had about an inch to land it in, and I landed it right on it, got it up and down and birdied the last two.  A perfect end.   
 Q.  Now, you're a member here at TPC Scottsdale.  How much of an advantage is that to get to play this course in all sorts of conditions?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS: You know, we never get to see it like this, so it was so much different.  The breaks are different.  It's a completely different golf course, but the tee shots, you know, settle into your eye a little bit better, and it's easier to shape your shots because you have hit them so many times.   
It's nice, but I have never been able to come out and play well here, because I have always made the cut in San Diego.  I usually play well in San Diego.  This is the first time I've missed the cut in probably 12 years in San Diego and now I got rested.  It ended up being a good thing.   
 Q.  Six birdies, one bogey.  
ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yes.   
 Q.  Was that overall just a good, efficient day at the office and overall just a nice way to get the tournament started for you?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS: Absolutely.  Didn't really make too many mistakes.  I hit one bad tee shot and got away with it on 13.   
You know, I could have played the par-5s on the backside a little bit better, but I putted well from outside of 10, 15 feet.  I made a couple of those.  It's always nice to start with 5-under no matter what golf course, no matter where you are, so I'm pretty excited about it.   
 Q.  You missed the cut last week but it was a blessing in disguise, kind of?  You were able to see the golf course and get ready for this week.  How much of an advantage was it seeing the course and being ready to start for a round 1 today?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS: You know, it's huge, because every time I make the cut in San Diego, I fly over Sunday night and I don't even come out until the tournament starts.   
So this week I was able to hit some balls on Monday, Tuesday, played at my country club at Silverleaf yesterday and hang out with the boys and relax, rested.  It's a big advantage to be able to see what it's playing like.  And also, the greens are a lot firmer today.  The course is in absolutely immaculate condition.   
 Q.  Last spring you talked about improvement in your putting.  It was noticeable not only in the numbers but also in your score.  
ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah.   
 Q.  What was the change?  How have you been able to sustain it since -- I know it's been up and down a little bit.  Obviously everybody goes through that.  Have you felt you have been able to sustain it?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS: Absolutely.  The change was just a change of the putter.  That's a Cure putter.  It's really probably the most amazing putter I have ever used.  They don't pay me to say anything.  It's just a great putter.   
It puts a perfect roll on the ball every time.  I feel sometimes I make bad strokes, and it still comes off good.  That gives me confidence that I'm going to make it and start it online.  That's a huge thing for us.  To be able to start it on your line with the right speed every time is paramount.   
 Q.  Especially for a guy like you not known for your putting, known for your long ball.  Toyed with a 26-incher.  How long is this?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS: I think it's 33.  So being able to trust that and know that the putter might save me if I make a bad stroke when I'm nervous or something like that, I mean, we all get nervous, so it's nice to have that in the bag, and I'm never gonna switch.   
 Q.  On paper, this course seems to set up for you really nicely, being able to hit it a little bit off the tee.  The greens are still relatively fresh or new.  Do you think that helps you a little bit better because you're not known for putting but you can still hang but your long ball makes a little bit more of a difference here?  
ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah, it usually does.  And out here, the rough isn't as high this year, which is nice.  I can spray it a little bit if I want to.   
I tell you what, I walked two putts in today from 30 feet, and about 15 feet away I knew they were in.  That's just one of the things that's so nice about having perfect greens and starting the ball online.  You know it's going in halfway.  You know, I think that's going to be key for me to keep rolling it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT