LEGENDS RENO-TAHOE OPEN
August 7, 2009
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Seemed like you got off on a bad start, couple of bogeys early. But after that you had it going?
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: It was one of those things, I hit a very bad wedge shot on 10. And then I got back to the green in 2 on 11 and 3-putted. And that was playing long this morning. 
 So I hit two really good shots and then didn't make many putts after that. And then bogeyed 14. And then 17 I chipped it in for eagle. And then birdied 18 and that got me going for the rest of the day. Made another eagle and a couple more birdies and got up-and-down on 9. So it was fun.

 Q. Good up-and-down on 9. Got into a little trouble there on the right just off the fairway?
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah, I blocked it. And that line, with my driver, I can't hit that line. It goes into the trees like it did. It was probably the worst swing all day. I hit it really good. I think I only missed a couple fairways and a few greens. It was nice to escape with a par and get in the house.

 Q. Had something like eight or nine 3s on the scorecard. It's going to look pretty good when you get in the clubhouse?
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Absolutely. It's always nice. I had two chips in for eagle. One was a putt, but it was off the green. The first chip in for eagle was a surprise. It was a tough chip. It was on 17. That flag's nasty right there. Kind of breaks both ways, and it was kind of nice to get those in. It was fun.

 Q. You're 67 today. 69 yesterday in the wind. How would you compare those two rounds?
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Today's round was about the same as yesterday. I felt I could have squeezed five shots out of yesterday's round. I hit it really good. I missed a ton of putts. I think I only had like 32 putts or 31 putts and shot 3-under. So I hit it really low yesterday. Hit it well again today and we'll try keep going for the weekend.

 Q. Satisfaction has got to be pretty good going into the weekend?
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Absolutely. It's a great place. Fun place to be. The people are really nice. It's nice to be here and playing well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT