THE 50TH BOB HOPE CLASSIC HOSTED BY ARNOLD PALMER
January 24, 2009
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARK STEVENS: We would like to thank Robert Garrigus for being in the interview room. Robert, if you'll start off and give some general comments on your round today and your thoughts going into the final round of the Bob Hope Classic.
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah, today's round was really, it was kind of up-and-down on the front. I birdied the first hole, got off to a good start, and then didn't hit it inside of 30 feet until Number 8. And then I hit it to 10 or 12 feet there for birdie and made birdie there. And then started getting some momentum. 
 Hit it close on, I think it was 11, and I made birdie there. And then hit it close again on 12, and just missed it. And chipped it really close on 13 and 14. I made a really good putt there. 
 It was just all about being patient today. I really didn't have anything going on the front side, and then the back, I just turned it on and it was nice to get that birdie at the last and get to 26, because I don't know what Pat's at, but he's at 30? Great (laughter). 
 I'm going to have to shoot 58 tomorrow to finish second, I think. But, yeah, it was good to get that round in, and I feel good about my position going into tomorrow. 

 Q. Talk about that, I just talked with D.J., and he said that he had to figure 62 was the number just to get into contention. He's at 23. Do you have to look at it that way or can you show up tomorrow and try not to think about that given it's the final round?
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Well, you really have to not think about it. But as easy as this course has been playing, if there's no wind, they're going to have to stick the pins in the bunkers for us to not shoot 65 or 64. There's been how many 61s out here? Three? Something like that. 

 Q. And four 62s. 
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah, so this is the best players in the world out here. And it's kind of similar to what Q-School was doing back when I played in it a few months ago. The number jumped five in the last day, and that's usually the day where it falls. 
 But Sunday on the PGA TOUR is a different animal, there's a lot of money at stake and a lot of careers are made on Sunday. So I'm looking forward to going into tomorrow, and you can't really think about it, but it's in the back of your head. I'm going to go out and try and hit everything close and make everything just like everybody else is doing. Can't really be nervous about it. 

 Q. The course you played today, have you had much work on that?
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: No. I haven't even seen it in three years -- or two. I played it two years ago. I think I shot 1-under, and it wasn't -- I really wasn't hitting it that well or putting that well. So to come into it today and kind of take advantage of it, that was nice. I didn't have a number today when I got out of bed. I was just like, well, I'm going to go try and hit it close. The greens were completely different over there than over here. Over here they were slow, soft, and over there they're firm and fast. So it was nice to get over there.

 Q. That was actually the question that was -- it didn't seem too long ago that it was the easiest golf course in this rotation, and now it seems like maybe it's these two courses over here?
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Absolutely. There's five par-5s. They weren't playing the par-3s as long as they should have. I think it's No. 6? Number 5? Over here. Over here. And they were playing it like 200 or 193 yards. It's a 240-yard shot. I'm sure they will back it up for us tomorrow. 
 But, yeah, the courses over here are fairly easy. If you get it in play, get it in the right place, can you score fairly well over here. Bermuda Dunes, for me, I felt was the harder of the four because I had to place mighty shots. And I'm not known for my accuracy, so it was nice to get a good round in over there. It felt good all day about it. 
 MARK STEVENS: Okay. Thank you, Robert. 
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT