U.S. BANK CHAMPIONSHIP IN MILWAUKEE
July 17, 2008
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DAN BLACKMAN: Robert Garrigus, thanks for joining us after a first round 65. Well, off to a great start, nice to get your round out of the way on a hot day. Maybe some opening comments about a good day for you. 
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah. We got out early, first group off, set a good pace. Brenden and I birdied -- or Deane and I birdied the first hole. You know, that just got us off to a good start. And the wind didn't kick up till probably our seventh or eighth hole, and it didn't get too hot, so we took advantage of it early. And it was nice to get a good round in.
 DAN BLACKMAN: Okay. We'll go into questions. 

 Q. Could you just go over your birdies?
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah. Birdied the very first hole, which was number 10, and then just kind of was hitting good shots and wasn't making anything, and then birdied 17. 
 I hit pitch-and-wedge from 136 yards and was like 20 feet and made it. And then 18, I got there in 2, into the wind, and got up-and-down there just on the right-hand side of the green, and birdied another par-3, number 5. I think it was number 5, the par-3. And then birdied number 9. I drove the green just on the left-hand side, chipped it up to 10 feet and made it.

 Q. Did you kind of feel like the golf course was out there for the taking today?
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah. You know, I felt like that, and I saw how Deane was playing, but there's also some spots you can get into some really sticky situations. I mean the wind's crossing all the fairways. It's not blowing down or in, straight in. It's all crossing, so if you don't hit a good shot off the tee, you don't have a very good chance of making birdie. But if you do hit the fairways, the pins aren't too terribly bad today, so I think it's -- there might be a 7 or 8 out there. Depends on how the wind kicks up in the afternoon. 
 But it was out there. The greens are perfect. And I actually finally read some putts right. Last year I had no clue where anything was going, and this year I finally got my eyes dialed into the greens, and you know, I think it's out there. 

 Q. Robert, can you just talk about your year a little bit, how you've been playing and sort of what your goals are, what you're shooting for this year and the rest of the season?
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah. The first part of the year was a disaster. I hadn't played well at all until the Buick, about three, four weeks ago, and I shot 65, shot 7-under on Sunday, and finally got some momentum going. 
 And then went to Congressional and played well, didn't finish as high as I wanted to, but I played as well as I could. And I just got some momentum going, and it's kind of nice to at least start it now and not at the last event. 
 And my goals for the rest of the year, obviously, are to win and get my card for the next couple of years and get into the Playoffs and win as many tournaments as I can. 
 All of us, that's what we strive to do, and we come out here to win every week. And if you don't, you don't come out here just to make the cut. So I feel like my game is in good shape, and I can win. 
 There's a lot of unbelievable golfers out here that have been out here for a long time that know how to do it, and I'm just trying to learn how to do it, and it's fun.

 Q. The British Open is going on right now. So a lot of the big guys aren't here. 
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah.

 Q. Does that give you guys a chance, some of you guys to get a win or do really well?
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Well, absolutely. The top players in the world aren't here, but you still gotta shoot 20-under out here, you know, and somebody's going to do it regardless if the top player in the world isn't here or the top-20 or 50. 
 Kenny Perry is in the field this week, and he has been lighting it up, so he's probably the guy to beat. You never know what's going on. But you know, you just play every day as it comes and whatever happens happens. 
 It's kind of a crazy deal. It's tough to win on the PGA TOUR, and I'm glad I got off to a good start. I have really never got off to a good start at this tournament. So I'm looking forward to the next few days, just keep hitting some fairways and some greens and see if the putts go in. 

 Q. You obviously didn't get a chance to see what was going on in the British Open this morning, but conditions are brutal, guys are shooting 13, 14, 15-over. 
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Wow.

 Q. Really struggling over there. It's raining sideways. 
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: I think I heard one guy was 1-under par and had a three-shot lead or something like that.

 Q. Cabrera, yeah. 
 ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah. And you know, that's what you get when you go over there. It's kind of one of those deals if you qualify, you're like, okay, great, but when you get over there, you're dealing with sideways rain and 40-mile-an-hour winds and greens that have dead animals in them. I mean it's just kind of -- it's one of those deals, you know, it's an experience to go over there. It's not just a golf tournament. 
 DAN BLACKMAN: Thanks, Robert.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT