AT&T NATIONAL
July 6, 2007
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Any near misses today?   
 ROBERT GARRIGUS:  On No. 8 I just lipped it out from the fairway and hit a couple close coming down the stretch.   
  
  Q.  How exciting and what does it mean to be in this position?   
 ROBERT GARRIGUS:  Everything, this is what we live for.  We get to play golf for a living and I wouldn't have it any other way.  I couldn't do anything else.   
 It's just great to be playing well in a big tournament like this.  It's very exciting.   
  
  Q.  Tell us about your bag.   
 ROBERT GARRIGUS:  TaylorMade came to us earlier in the week, and I went to a couple baseball games and I didn't get a chance to go see the wounded troops.  My brother was in the Army, my dad was in the Army, grandpa; everybody I've been associated with in my family has been in the Army or in the Air Force.  So it's nice to give something back.  It means a lot to everybody else, which is nice to see.   
  
  Q.  What would it mean to win this tournament?   
 ROBERT GARRIGUS:  Come on; get into the Masters, a million dollars, you just can't think about that stuff.  It would be phenomenal to win the tournament.  I'm just looking forward to playing well on the weekend.   
  
  Q.  How do you think the changing weather will affect the conditions?   
 ROBERT GARRIGUS:  I don't know if the greens will change too much.  It seemed like yesterday they might have got a little faster.  The greens were a lot faster today.   
 I think the weather is going to be fine.  It's going to be hot and humid.  Even if it dries out, I'm from Phoenix; it's 117 out there, I think I can take it.   
  
  Q.  Did you look up as you were seeing yourself on the leaderboard --   
 ROBERT GARRIGUS:  Every once in a while you take a peek over there and see how the course is playing.  It was playing pretty tough today.  Only a handful of people shot under par.  It's a golf course like that.  If you don't hit the fairways, you're not going to score, and I ended up hitting a couple of fairways today, which is really nice.  I don't do that very often.  So it was nice.   
  
  Q.  What would you have to say -- what would you say you have to do this weekend to stay on top?   
 ROBERT GARRIGUS:  Definitely have to shoot two rounds in the 60s, maybe mid 60s.  I don't know how hard or how fast the greens are going to get.  I don't think it's going to be that bad.  I think it's going to be kind of soft.  So I think a pair of 67 the or 66s might do it.   
 You know, you go out and hit the first tee shot and go from there.  We really don't think about it.   
  
  Q.  How challenging is this course and how challenging has it been?   
 ROBERT GARRIGUS:  Very challenging.  I hit it very well today and shot 3-under par, and it just -- you know, it's very tough to hit the fairways, because the fairways seem to be firm and the greens are soft.  They are kind of running out in spots and the rough is five, six inches deep.  I had a couple of lies today where I couldn't advance it more than maybe 70 yards at the most.  You have to hit the fairways and from there, you can score.  But if you don't, you're not going to.   
  
  Q.  Can you compare it to a course, a U.S. Open course, or any other course that you've played on?   
 ROBERT GARRIGUS:  Probably the Wachovia, Quail Hollow.  It's pretty comparable.  This has a few more undulations from the fairway to the greens.  It's just an overall tough golf course.  It's a par-70, they converted a par 5 into a par 4.  That's what we need to see lower scores.  6- or 7-under is leading at halfway, and I don't think it's maybe going to get over 10 or 11, depends if somebody goes really low.  I think it's going to be right around in that area.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT