SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 1, 2007
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Well, not a bad day for you, 65, birdied five of the last six holes, including the bottom here.  Take us through the highlights. 
 ROBERT GARRIGUS:  Starting day I was hitting it good.  Hitting it good all week.  Yesterday I missed a bunch of putts.  Today I tried to hit the greens and give myself chance.  Finally got a couple to go on the front. 
 Got some confidence.  On the back side, I hit the first three greens and then didn't really make anything, and then I made a putt and another one and then another one, and they just kept going in, which is nice. 

 Q.  You believe in stuff like this, being able to kick start something, looking ahead to a round like this? 
 ROBERT GARRIGUS:  Absolutely.  It's all about believing in yourself especially, out here when you're playing for this much money and this much pressure.  It's nice to know that I can do it under pressure and now we'll go from there. 

 Q.  Just talk to me about the last putt here. 
 ROBERT GARRIGUS:  I was just trying to lag it up close.  That's what we're all doing from 56 feet.  Nobody is really trying to make that putt.  I hit it perfect on the perfect line and perfect speed and went right in the center.  I was so excited. 

 Q.  You were ahead on the PGA TOUR one time? 
 ROBERT GARRIGUS:  Cog Hill last year I shot 64, I think, and I didn't birdie the five of the last six holes on Sunday.  That's never happened before, but that was a nice feeling.  I was very pleased to get it in.  Now I can play in Harbor Town. 

 Q.  You made yourself a lot of money the last hour or so? 
 ROBERT GARRIGUS:  Yes, I did.  Roughly under $150,000 with all those birdies, but whatever.  I mean, the money comes with what you do out here, and I'm glad I played well, and it was nice to play well. 

 Q.  Robert, you didn't play well last year.  What's the difference this year? 
 ROBERT GARRIGUS:  Last year it was right in the middle of a three, four tournament stretch, and I really wasn't hitting it very good.  When you don't hit it good out here, you get penalized.  This year I feel a little better about my game. 
 This is my second year out here.  I'm a little calmer out here.  It's nice to know I played the courses better this year than I did last year.  It shows progression. 

 Q.  How much of the adrenaline started going when the birdies started going? 
 ROBERT GARRIGUS:  When I made the one on 16, I got kind of pumped.  The one -- the birdie on 15 was par 5, and then I hit a good shot on 16, and then when I made that putt, I got excited, and then I was like "Alright, just hang on and see if you can make a couple putts." 
 The two holes are not easy.  Playing 1-under is definitely a dream come true. 

 Q.  How long was the putt on 16? 
 ROBERT GARRIGUS:  The one on 16 is 4 feet.  The one on 15 was about, probably about 20 feet, and 2-putted from 80 feet on the par 5, I hit it in 2. 

 Q.  Which hole? 
 ROBERT GARRIGUS:  On -- 13. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT