FBR OPEN
February 2, 2007
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Another great day for you on the course, a 4-under round, the under, you're in contention.   
 ROBERT GARRIGUS:  Absolutely.  This is a good spot to be in at home.  I get to sleep in my own bed and come drive my own car to the golf course.  This is awesome.   
  
  Q.  Talk about the round today.   
 ROBERT GARRIGUS:  The round was great, started off very hot.  I birdied five of my first nine holes, then kind of slowed down on the back side but got it back with a birdie on 6 I believe it was, and that was very nice to get that in and calm me down a little bit.   
  
  Q.  Was the key for you today just to hit the fairways?  You're one of the leading drivers on this Tour.  Were you hitting the fairways nicely out here?   
 ROBERT GARRIGUS:  Yeah, I was actually.  I was hitting the fairways but just making putts.   
 I told you earlier in the week that you need to make putts out here to win, and as many putts as I made today, I hope to keep it going on the weekend.   
  
  Q.  Do you play much here in your free time?  Do you feel like you know the course better than some?   
 ROBERT GARRIGUS:  Absolutely.  I play here every time I'm home, on my time off, when I play the two days out here because you don't want to wear yourself out, but I play out here a lot, yes.   
  
  Q.  When you look at the leaderboard a lot of fresh faces on top, Rollins, yourself, Quinney.  What does that say about the young guns from the Nationwide Tour making an impact out here?   
 ROBERT GARRIGUS:  Well, it's great.  You know, it's great to see guys come up and play well just to show everybody that there are other players than Tiger Woods, and everybody else.  Everybody has got game out here.  Anybody can win at any given time, and it's nice to see that.   
  
  Q.  What do you think this is going to do for the Nationwide Tour?   
 ROBERT GARRIGUS:  It's the second best Tour in the world, and there's so much competition.  It just gives it a better name, I think.  It's nice to see all the players coming up and doing well.   
  
  Q.  What's it going to take to win this tournament if the weather continues and it dries up a little bit?   
 ROBERT GARRIGUS:  If the tournament stays like this, it's going to take 20.  I've got to shoot 11-under on the weekend to have a chance because it's going to be soft.  I don't think they're going to dry out that much.  There's a big difference in this course.   
  
  Q.  What's it like walking the fairways?   
 ROBERT GARRIGUS:  It's awesome.  This is the first Phoenix Open I've gotten to play in.  I've tried to qualify for it ten times.  I've missed it by a shot six times.  So this is very nice.  I'm getting a very good reception.  The fans here are awesome.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT