NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 26, 2015
Robert Garrigus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Excellent round today.  Talk a little bit about how you played and what was good.  We'll start off with that.
ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah, driving.  Drove the ball very well.  Both par-5s on the front I had 5-iron and 4-iron into, and they're over 600 yards.  I was piping it down the middle, hitting it long, and hitting really good iron shots and rolling it well.
This golf course you can't fall asleep for a half second or you're going to make a double.  It was a good day.  Kind of got a little squirrely on the back.  Maybe lost a little bit of energy.  Had a peanut butter and jelly sandwich and got some energy back and started swinging a little bit better.
Made some good swings coming down the stretch.  The one on 17 was right over the top of the flag.  Just hit a little bit too much club.  It was a great day.  It was nice to see some putts drop, start online.
Yesterday didn't really start anything online, and my speed was awful.  I'm right where I need to be, and go get it tomorrow.
Q. You talked about finding something yesterday and today.  Can you explain?
ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah.  Yesterday I really started swinging it well.  The first day I really didn't hit it that great, but I scored better than I should have.
Yesterday I really started swinging confidently and aggressively and was trusting it.  I hadn't really done that the entire year.  It was nice to see that yesterday.  I was pretty excited about it, except for my putting.
I spent a little more time on the putting green this morning.  Just worked on the tempo of my stroke.  No mechanics.  It was the transition of my stroke into the ball.
Felt like I was really quick yesterday, so today I just slowed it down and everything is going in.  It was great.
Q. That confidence and aggressiveness you talked about, is that something you been telling yourself you wanted to do more of throughout the year?
ROBERT GARRIGUS: You know, I was so just mind-boggled at how my golf has been this year.  Played on TOUR for ten years.  I've probably won almost 10 -- 12 golf tournaments and I've only one.
I've taken everything that I've learned in my entire career and putting it into this golf tournament.  I'm really focused all three days.  Except this one double bogey there kind of lost focus.  This is where you got to do it right now.  I'll be looking forward to tomorrow and hopefully go have some fun and we'll see what happens.
Q. Your numbers off the tee yesterday were very, very different from today.  You didn't put the driver a way at all yesterday, or...
ROBERT GARRIGUS: No.  I hit a tree and it bounced back like 50 yards.  I kind of giggled.  I'm like, Well, whatever.  Almost ended up making birdie, so I didn't really care about that.
Today I'm sure it was pretty silly about how far I was hitting it.  I was hitting a perfect high draw right in the middle of the face.  Perfect trajectory all day.  It was a lot of fun.
When I get confident like that it makes golf a lot easier.
Q. Even though you missed a couple cuts coming into this, was there any aspect of a little bit more natural confidence knowing that this course suits your game a little bit better?
ROBERT GARRIGUS: 1000%.  Soon as I played a practice round and saw how hard the greens were and how long these holes were, I'm like, Here we go.  If I can just get something - something  - going.
I knew I was going to play well here.  Regardless of what happens tomorrow or next week, I got a little bit of confidence and that's all I need.
Q. Have you ever been here before?
ROBERT GARRIGUS: I played here once in a U.S. Open qualifier.  Maybe shot a couple under after shooting 8- or 9-under at the other place.
This is a hard golf course.  You've got to hit your ball exactly where you're looking or you're going to get in some interesting spots.
It's a fun golf course, too, because it makes you think, create shots, and that's what I like to do.  I'm looking forward to tomorrow.
Q. Can you talk about your start, the four birdies in the first seven holes, and what that does?  What you did well to get off to that start, and then how that carries you the rest of the day.
ROBERT GARRIGUS: Yeah, you know, No. 1 I made a perfect swing.  Hit a perfect wedge right in there just past the hole, lipped out the putt.
Then the 2nd hole I had a dead-straight 10-footer up the hill and I rolled it right from the middle.  That just got me getting confidence that what I did on the putting green was working.
Then I hammered a tee shot down the other par-5, No.4.  Had 5-iron into that green.  Hit it right over the top of the flag stick and 2-putted.
Made a good 2-putt on the Par-3.
Got up on the next Par-5 and smoked it down the middle again.
Had 4-iron into that green and hit 20 feet; 2-putted.
Next hole I hit a 9-iron as high as you could hit a 9-iron over the tree in front of me and hit it to like eight feet and made that.
So it was just a really confident start.  I birdied those four holes and then made really good up and down out of the left bunker on 8.  That kept round going.
It was just a real big confidence booster.  It kept me swinging good all day just knowing that it was working.  Everything that I worked on pretty much all week started to work, and it was nice to see.
It's been a long year.
Q. With that and where we are in the season with two rounds to go and one tournament to go, are you conscious about maybe putting the pedal down and attack more pins, or do you have to play conservatively regardless?
ROBERT GARRIGUS: No.  This golf course you can't really go with many, unless you get the full green light, which in my mind is every shot, which is awful.  When I played at Augusta I shot at every flag the first year and I missed the cut by four.  Then I played the next year and finished in the top 20.
It's kind of one of those courses where you can't shoot at it unless you got a full green light.  But it's going to be hard for me not to do that tomorrow because I know I'm swinging good.  Have to tone to down a little bit.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT