NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: MAPLE LEAFS v HURRICANES
May 25, 2002
Curtis Joseph
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What was the difference tonight?

CURTIS JOSEPH:   I thought we played real well the last game also, but just for some reason, it didn't go in the net and they made a couple of great plays.  If we had played as good as we have in the last two games, we would be maybe better off. 

Q.  What was the third period like?

CURTIS JOSEPH:   Well, it was one where we had the lead and we haven't had a lead too many times in the series.  We made sure we were good up ice and they kept coming in waves, obviously, but I thought we played good position, and let me see it and cleared a lot of rebounds.

Q.  Did it help you personally --  and I know everybody has to do their job, but the fact that you have been through and actually prevailed in a situation like this, down 3-1 and played very well, does it contribute at all in a situation like this to know that you have been through that and won?

CURTIS JOSEPH:   I think experience always helps you in certain situations.  Yeah, any time you could experience any pressure situations or situations that you can recall, that you've been in, it's going to help you, for sure. 

Q.  Does it change things for you at all, playing with the lead? 

CURTIS JOSEPH:  I think for our team, yeah, playing with the lead is very important.  They play such a suffocating style where they try not to make any mistakes and just play great defense; that if we get a lead we have to force them to open up a little bit.  It's very important to get a led.

Q.  Hedican had a similar play earlier in the series; were you prepared for that?

CURTIS JOSEPH:   No, it was totally different.  He was farther outside last time.  Last time he had a great shooting spot, where they can get in an area, where they can beat you and you have to come out and challenge.

Q.  Seems like home ice is more of a disadvantage in this series?

CURTIS JOSEPH:   Yeah, you can say that as far as the home ice.  I thought we played extremely well the last game, but a bounce here, a bounce there, you're not going to lose too many games when you play well, like the last game.

Q.  Do you feel the team is getting stronger in this series?

CURTIS JOSEPH:   We've had guys coming back, and no question, coming off an injury, you're going to need a few games.  Hopefully we are getting stronger at right times.

Q.  What does the two-day rest do for you?

CURTIS JOSEPH:   Two-day rest, yeah, you take what you're given and use it to your advantage.  A couple of days, yeah, we'll be ready Tuesday.

Q.  On the Hedican play on the five on three, did you see him coming down on the left point?

CURTIS JOSEPH:   Yeah, I could see him coming down  -- now I know what you're talking about.  That was on the power play.  The other one was  -- just to reiterate, he came in and teed up and he kept in and he kept pushing.  This one was bang, bang, Francis is a great passer; and it was a one-time shot and you just try to get over there and get as much equipment over there and try to make a save.  Yeah, it is different.

Q.  You could see him coming out of the corner of your eye?

CURTIS JOSEPH:   You take a quick look without trying to move your head and you try to see where everybody is.  That's important for goaltending.  If you can know where the guy is in relation to where you have to move, you can be square to the puck when you have to be bang, bang save.  But it could have went in, also.  It just hit me, got so much of my body over there and fortunately it stayed out.

Q.  Losing your composure in the second period, do you almost thrive on that sometimes?

CURTIS JOSEPH:   We are a team that we are very scrappy, we have a lot of characters, a lot of tenacious guys and we are boarding on combustible.  That's the way we play. 

Q.  There was a play in the third period where Brind'Amour came around the corner and they ended up reviewing the forecheck; where was the puck? 

CURTIS JOSEPH:   I don't know.  I don't know where the puck went.  I know it came out and kind of hit our guy lying down and then wasn't sure if it kept going so just tried to roll over and get as much of my body over there as I can.  Couldn't really tell where it was.

Q.  Couldn't tell on the replay. 

CURTIS JOSEPH:   Couldn't.  Inconclusive.  (Laughter).

Q.  You've been down this 1-3 before and came back and won.  Do you see any parallels from this Game 5 to the Game 5 in that series?

CURTIS JOSEPH:   The last time that we came back, the time that you are referring to, was in Edmonton.  The feeling on that team was they really believed our team; that we could come back and win the series.  I see this team believing in ourselves, in this dressing room.  When push comes to shove, we can come up with a big game, and we have a lot of confidence in that room, a lot of veteran guys, and I think that's the attitude that you need to be able to come back. 

Q.  Does the pressure swing now a little bit to the?

CURTIS JOSEPH:   Well, the pressure is still on us, obviously, being down 3-2.  You know, we're still alive and we're looking for a big game at home.

Q.  A few thousand people somehow found their way down here. 

CURTIS JOSEPH:   Yeah, absolutely.  When there was a goal, there was a nice cheer and you could see a lot of Leafs jerseys.  There was a lot of people here from Toronto here to night, making the drive. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT