NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: MAPLE LEAFS v HURRICANES
May 24, 2002
Curtis Joseph
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What's the mood of the team right now?
 
CURTIS JOSEPH:  The one thing that I can convey is that we really believe that we can win.  We're a good team and we've been down before in the other series, and low and behold we've comeback.  But I think it's similar with this team, we have the confidence that when we need a game, we have come up with it.  So we've got that in our favor.  
 
Q.  It's no secret that when you guys have crashed the net, you've had success in this post-season run.  Have you been telling the guys as a goalie, the more you get to Arturs, the more success you'll have?
 
CURTIS JOSEPH:   Oh, yeah, we know that you have to get to the net to win hockey games.  They do a great job of holding up, and it seems like it's within the rules, but they have done a great job of holding guys and clutching and grabbing and clawing their way to not letting us get anywhere.  
 
Q.  Would you be surprised to see Pat behind the bench tomorrow night?
 
CURTIS JOSEPH:   No.  I'm sure he'll be back there.  I think it was a surprise to everybody that he was there last game, but apparently he's feeling really good.  So, that's good news.  
 
Q.  Do you expect him to be there tomorrow night?
 
CURTIS JOSEPH:   Yeah, but don't take my word for it. (Smiles). 
 
Q.  Playing the Hurricanes, is this a discouraging style?  It really seems to get you down because it's so hard to score, especially if they get one or two. 
 
CURTIS JOSEPH:   Well, I think it would be nice to get a lead and play with a lead, and then they would have to open it up a little more and that would be to our favor.  Unfortunately, we haven't got a lead yet.  We've just got to find a way.  
 
Q.  Are you a believer in bounces? 
 
CURTIS JOSEPH:   Oh, yeah, but they always even out eventually.  You make your own bounces, too.  If you go to the net ten times in a row, you're going to get a bounce.  Some games, they just don't go your way.  That's why it's a seven-game series and usually the best team wins.  We have had some bad bounces, too.  I remember some goals that went in against us that went off sticks or whatever.  Then maybe in the Game 7s, they evened out for us a little bit.  But you've got to make your own breaks, too.  You've got to make your own breaks.  You've got to go to the net.  I think last game we did enough to warrant getting a bounce or two, for sure.  The last game, if you play like that each game in a seven-game series, you're going to get some bounces. 
 
Q.  So if you play with the same effort, good things will happen?
 
CURTIS JOSEPH:   Yeah, with the same effort and same amount of traffic and whatnot, they will go in.  
 
Q.  It's been a long time since you've brought the Cup home for Toronto.  Are you feeling any extra pressure?
 
CURTIS JOSEPH:   Well, I wasn't around in '67, but I was around, barely.   We know what we have to do.  But you have enough to worry about without trying to add things on top of your task.  So you try not to look for things to add to the pressure; you try and take away from it. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT