UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 16, 2019
Chase Claypool
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Notre Dame - 52, Navy - 20
Q. You do really well in November. Over 900 receiving yards. Is there something about the end of the season? You play better in the elements, team are wearing down, that has allowed you to have success later in the season?
CHASE CLAYPOOL: I think a little bit all of the above. Chemistry with Ian Book has definitely helped a lot. We're roommates in the hotel so we're able to go through things if anything comes up. I just think getting comfortable with the game plan helps as well.
Q. Has something changed between you guys in the last few weeks that you've noticed? Something you figured out?
CHASE CLAYPOOL: I think trust is a big thing. I think he fully trusts me now. Not that he didn't before, but he knows exactly where to put the ball and chemistry, like I said.
Yeah, he's allowing me to -- he's throwing the ball up and giving me a chance to make a play. I'm happy that I'm able to make some plays for him just to build that trust a little more.
Q. I know you had big games in high school. Ever caught four touchdown passes before in a game?
CHASE CLAYPOOL: I haven't caught four touchdown passes.
Q. Okay. You ran some in or something?
CHASE CLAYPOOL: Yeah, I had ten one time.
Q. What?
CHASE CLAYPOOL: Yeah. That was a while back.
Q. How did you score ten touchdowns in one game?
CHASE CLAYPOOL: It's a long story. Yeah, it was against our rival, No. 1 team in the league. They ran a triple option, so similar to this team. We knew that every possession we got was kind of going to be important.
I don't know, we just had a good game plan. Kind of went out there and ran around a little bit.
Q. Kind of maximized your possessions, I see. Let's talk about that fourth touchdown. Just kind of was an unbelievable catch again. Do you work on that type of play or those quarter routes?
CHASE CLAYPOOL: Yeah, we work on that all week. We know it's a tough ball to defend and we try to take advantage of that any time we can.
Q. On your 47-yard touchdown you got matched up with a linebacker. Were you kind of excited when you saw that matchup and were you surprised by it?
CHASE CLAYPOOL: Yeah, we knew it was a miss-match or a miscommunication of some sort because we hadn't seen that on film ever, and it hasn't even happened this year, I don't think.
I think Ian knew it right away; I knew it right away. I was running down the field with a big smile on my face before the ball was even thrown.
Q. I know you're naturally a confident guy. Have you gotten to a point where you feel like any time a ball goes up in the air that you can get your hands on you'll be able to wrestle it away from a DB?
CHASE CLAYPOOL: Yeah. I been telling that to Book all year, and Finke just said it in the interview. He said, It's not 50/50 ball. Should be 80/20, 90/10 ball. I told Book if he those it up it's usually catch, a PI, or nothing else.
So, yeah, I think that's really starting to show.
Q. Chase, you and Ian had the first three touchdowns and then it goes to Lenzy. Were you that upset he didn't look back your way for four in a row?
CHASE CLAYPOOL: No, not an all. I wanted other people to score. I love seeing other guys score. I'm just as happy for them as when I score, if not more excited for them. Especially a younger guy like Lenzy really getting a chance to show out.
Q. Can you put in perspective the mood on the sideline during a game like this where it seems just about everything single is going right on both sides of the ball?
CHASE CLAYPOOL: Yeah, you can't really put it into words, but happiness going through the guys, the excitement for each one of us is really cool to see, and it kind of shows how much of a family we are.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT