ROGERS CUP
July 27, 2016
Saisai Zheng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








An interview with:
ZHENG SAISAI
THE MODERATOR: First question for Saisai, please.
Q. You've posted a message about your disappointment about the racquet.  Can you tell us exactly what happened.
ZHENG SAISAI: Yeah, last night was really sad and angry little bit because my racquet, when I play on court, all the racquet is supposed to be 52 and 50.  But after the match I went to calculate, it's 40.  So it's 10 pounds less.
You know, for player, for tournament like this...
Q. All of them?
ZHENG SAISAI: Yes.
Q. How many?
ZHENG SAISAI: Two.  Then I string another one, like, on court during when I play.
Q. Did you realize something was wrong while you were playing?
ZHENG SAISAI: You know, the beginning, it's big crowd.  We just changed the other court to the center court.  I might be little nervous, so I couldn't control really good.
But by the time pass, it's like three games, I saw this is too loose, I couldn't play.  I change another one.
Actually I did one pounds up another one.  I play another three game.  There is still no way.  I cannot hit.  I cannot control.  I have to change my game to just, you know, try to just put the ball in.
It's really, you know, disappointed.  I couldn't.
Q. Did you get any explanation as to how this happened?
ZHENG SAISAI: It never happened to me.  I played two quallies here, so my string was okay.  I didn't thought it's going to happen for 10 pounds.  I mean, it's big disparity than what I should have before, you know.
Q. Apparently they say that the machine was wrong?
ZHENG SAISAI: They just tell me, just confirm that the machine was, like, wrong.  They just move the machine.  The other two machine was right.  But unfortunately the racquet, the string for my racquet, is on the bad machine.
Q. Have you talked to other players?
ZHENG SAISAI: What do you mean, I talk to anyone?
Q. Other players.  Do you know if any other players had the same problem you had?  You're all having the racquets strung.
ZHENG SAISAI: I heard there's some maybe complaining about it.  But, you know, there's three machines.  Obviously, if you do the two right one, you're fine.  Unfortunately like me, if you do the wrong one, for sure you have, you know...
Q. How do you feel it affected the result of your match yesterday night?
ZHENG SAISAI: It's awful because I couldn't play my game plan.  Like I flew from Stanford.  I was playing good there.  Overnight I came here, I played two quallies, and I got this opportunity to play my first round in Montréal.  I was really look for play a good match.
You know, the player, against Abanda, she was really good, talent player.  There is no doubt she play really good match.  I don't want to take, like, anything away from her.  But if I can have more fair, you know, more weapon, I can maybe get another better performance.  So this is really upset.
Q. You said you had a racquet recorded during the game.  Was this racquet okay?
ZHENG SAISAI: Like second set, the end, the racquet, I felt it's okay, I can swing, I can play little better.  But actually you can say is too late.
And during the match actually, I just feel the racquet is really loose.  I couldn't control.  But I don't know how big.  Then after that I go straight to the stringers and I tell them, Can you calculate?  Then they do it and they said, Okay, I'm sorry, this is not right.  They apologize.
I asked what we do.  They said, Okay, I don't charge you.  But, you know...   I came here.  It's just really, really disappointed, yeah.
Q. You've potentially lost points and prize money.  What do you think the tournament should do for you after what has happened?
ZHENG SAISAI: Actually before my doubles, the tournament director come to apologize for all this.  He feels sorry for this.  But he want to, you know, make sure it won't happen anymore.
It's good.  I hope there's not another player is going to be the situation like this.  I don't know, like, I couldn't sleep last night.
Q. Do you think an apology is sufficient for what has happened?  Do you think an apology is enough after what has happened?
ZHENG SAISAI: But, you know, the match gone.  What you can do?  Yeah, I mean...
Q. A wild card for the future, in case you need it?
ZHENG SAISAI: Yeah, I will hope.  Maybe next year I can come here to have another chance, but yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT