BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 21, 2014
Saisai Zheng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. PUIG/S. Zheng
  6‑4, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How did you find this entire experience of the Rising Stars event?   
SAISAI ZHENG:   Well, I mean, everything, it's so special.   Like you have this experience for the ‑‑ it's like the top player and all the like hair, makeup, it's so fun.  
All the stuff.   We went to the Facebook office.   It's so fun.   It's really a good memory and good lesson for me.   
   
 Q.   There was a focus on Asia in the Rising Stars.   Two of the players from Asia Pacific and two from the rest of the world.   Did you feel like this tournament, having the Championships in Asia, makes it more important for China and the rest of Asia for you as a player?   
SAISAI ZHENG:   Yes, I think for sure it's Asia and we feel more like close to the finals like.   It's just really good for Asian tennis.   I mean, yeah, for sure more people will come to watch and more children will start to play.   
It's such big things I think, yeah.   
   
 Q.   What were your thoughts on the match today?   You had many chances.   You had break points; four in one game.   Did you feel like you had chances?   
SAISAI ZHENG:   Yeah, but, I mean, deuce only one point.   I mean, everybody has chance.   I think it's great match.   I enjoy it.   I fight and she play better.  
It was fine I think.   I like it.   
   
 Q.   A lot of people have sort of talked about what the future of tennis in Asia is like now Li NA has retired.   She was obviously the biggest champion from here.   Do you feel pressure to sort of fill those shoes or to keep Asian tennis near the top because you're a young, up‑and‑coming player?  
SAISAI ZHENG:   I mean, it's not her, like she did so well, so we are really feel close to the top level.   Like before we seem like a dream.   It's so far from us, and now we see it.   
I think me just step by step like do everything right things and we'll see.   Uh‑huh.  
   
 Q.   I know it's the end of the season and you are probably looking forward to a little bit of a break.   As you look towards 2015, what are the things you learned this year that you want to improve on or lessons for next year for you?   
SAISAI ZHENG:   Well, there are a lot of things.   First, I think it's take care of my body.   The healthy is important.   Like not be injury and can be healthy to play all the season.   That's I think the big point.   I want to take care.   
And of course the technique.   My technique, I think everything I still have big improvement.   So I will just really working hard in the off‑season.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   This is the first year for this event, the Rising Stars.   What did you think about the format and the way it worked?   Anything that can be changed or improved, or is it perfect the way it is?   
SAISAI ZHENG:   Well, I think it's just perfect.   I mean, like we can have this opportunity to see all the great players, top players, how they do on court, off the court, and how they show their selves.  
I mean, this is really good chance for us like be here and learn all the things.   Yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT