CHINA OPEN
September 29, 2014
Saisai Zheng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.  
   
 Q.   Where was your head at after you lost the three set points in the first set going into the second set?  
    SAISAI ZHENG:   It was actually very close.   We didn't get set point, did we?   
   
 Q.   Three set points.   
    SAISAI ZHENG:   Oh, yeah, I remember.   Yeah, but today I have so many return mistake.   I not really adjust this court as last week in the Asian Game.   It's a lot different.   
    It's all right.   I think today I play okay, yeah.   
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese, please.   
   
 Q.   Four years ago in Singapore you got the silver medal for singles.   This year you can go to Singapore to attend the juniors exhibition competition.   
    SAISAI ZHENG:   Hopefully I can go to Singapore.   Four years ago I played well in Singapore.   Many people were supporting me there.   
    This time the WTA gave me this opportunity.   Right now it is the voting process.   It's not yet done, so I hope I can get more support and votes.   Hopefully I can be there in Singapore.   
   
 Q.   Asian Games, what are your feelings about them?  
    SAISAI ZHENG:   This time in the Asian Games, the atmosphere was good.   We would like to win each match as a group.   
    As for me in HongKong, I participated in the singles.   I competed against Japan in the singles and the doubles, so I felt good.   
    When you were on the court, there would be a group supporting you off the court.   I felt a little bit of pity in the final.   Zheng Jie fought hard in the finals, but she lost.   
    For me it is also a pity because in the final I did not make it into the court, but on the whole it's quite good.   
   
 Q.   In the Singapore exhibition competition, you are calling for support from your fans.   Is it your idea to raise more votes for you?   
    SAISAI ZHENG:   Several days ago my ranking was No. 2, then I slipped to No.3.   I was a little bit nervous.   So I thought that I should provide some fresh information, then I found the friends around me.   So we shoot the videos with each other.   After we shot those videos, we put it out in order to get more votes from the fans and supporters.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT