MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
April 4, 2021
Shuko Aoyama
Ena Shibahara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  AOYAMA-SHIBAHARA/Carter-Stefani
 6-2, 7-5
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Congratulations.  First of all, can you just talk about what the key was today?  It seemed like you came out there and played with a lot of high energy and came up with some very, very big points in that second set in particular to come back.
 ENA SHIBAHARA:   Yeah, as you know, we have played Hayley and Luisa many, many times and knew that they were going to fight till the end, get every ball back.  I think we started off really well finding those passing shots when we needed them.
 Second set they definitely played a lot better, and I feel like I didn't play as great as I did in the first set, but Shuko really played really well to bring us back in that second set.  Then I feel like we fought really well together in the end.
 Q. Shuko, you did play fantastically in that second set, in particular when you were down and really holding your position on the baseline very well against them.  Can you talk about what was the key today from your side in terms of finding the game to beat them the way that you did?
 SHUKO AOYAMA:   I didn't remember a lot because I just focus so much (smiling).  But, yeah, second set 2-5 down, and then I think we couldn't be patient maybe because they have like wall at the net.
 Yeah, we tried to think, what do we have to do?  If what we should do and then they got point, it's okay.  So we just try to keep our tennis.  Yeah.  And I think we had very good energy again and focused.  So that's why, yeah, we were able to come back.
 Q. From each of you, what does winning Miami mean to you?  It's obviously the biggest title in a very dramatic two weeks to get there, but I guess starting you with, Ena, what's it mean for you to get this title?
 ENA SHIBAHARA:   Yeah, I mean, Miami Open was one of the few tournaments that I was really looking forward to playing, especially because, I mean, I was born and raised in the U.S.  Indian Wells/Miami are like the sunshine tournaments.  Every time it would be playing on my TV screen when I was little, I was, like, I want to play on this stage.  For me, this title is really special.
 Q. How about for you, Shuko, to have your career and now get Miami?
 SHUKO AOYAMA:   Yeah, honestly I can't believe that, because it's very big tournament next to Grand Slam.  So, yeah, but we can get more confidence.  Yeah, we want to try to play at the Grand Slam like today (smiling).
 Q. Obviously no team has won two titles let alone three titles this year.  You guys are winning all the titles.  Can you just talk about what the key has been for the hard court season that you have played?  Do you think you can play this level on clay?
 ENA SHIBAHARA:   Yeah, this hard court season, we started off really well.  Then we kind of had a little bit of tough time in, like, Dubai and Doha.  But we kind of regrouped and came together and talked about what we need to do better to get to that next level.
 We got to train a little bit at my home before coming here, and I think that really brought our game up, brought our level of game up.
 I think with our game and mindset now, I feel like we can translate it into the clay season and really looking forward to it.
 SHUKO AOYAMA:   Yeah, I think it's important, our tennis momentum, yeah, so if we have good momentum, maybe we can go good through the tournament.  So we try to keep doing that at the clay season, yeah.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT