NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SENATORS v SABRES
May 12, 2007
Kris King
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Just for clarification, if you could just give an explanation for the ruling.   
 MR. KING:  We're looking at every goal, and this one as the puck came across the net, Vanek was in the act of shooting and his hand came forward.  We looked hard for all the angles to deem that puck was off the glove, and indeed it was as he was shooting and 67.6 says that you cannot direct the puck into the net with the glove.   
  
  Q.  Even if it's unintentional?   
 MR. KING:  If it's - goals are allowed if it's a deflection.  The fact that he was in shooting motion was a fact and he was in the act of moving his glove forward, and that is ruled no goal.   
  
  Q.  Even like I say, the intent usually of just --   
MR. KING:  We don't judge intent here.  We see how the puck gets in the net with the glove moving forward.   
  
  Q.  Is this - just to confirm, this does not go back to Toronto because everybody is on site?   
 MR. KING:  We have people in Toronto monitoring.   
  
  Q.  The call was made here, though?   
 MR. KING:  The call was made with the collection of us here and the guys in Toronto.  We had the call the same in both places.   
  
  Q.  At what point did you get a conclusive view of it?  Was it right away and you keep again and again?   
 MR. KING:  We've got CBC and Versus and overhead cameras and in-net cameras.  The result of looking hard at all the replays, one of our replays was a blown-up version that actually really clearly showed this puck did indeed hit his glove as he was in the act of shooting, and that was what we finally made our call in.   
  
  Q.  Were you looking at the fact that it might have hit the stick, and, of course, everything is the same color.  Do you think you could have told that if --   
 MR. KING:  Well, I mean if we're not sure that it hit the glove a hundred percent, we would have had to go up with the ruling on the ice which was a goal.  Our referee ruled that he saw the puck over the line, and it's our job to make sure how it got there, and it got there legally.  So we looked to make sure that it didn't hit the stick, and obviously with the replays we've had it was batted with the glove.    
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT