84 LUMBER CLASSIC OF PENNSYLVANIA
September 20, 2003
Tom Scherrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVE SENKO:  Tom, thanks for joining us.  And first off, your 64 is a new competitive course record here.  So maybe just share your thoughts on the 64 today, and you find yourself 9-under heading into tomorrow's round. 

TOM SCHERRER:   Obviously, I'm very happy with how I played.  I don't know if you ever expect to shoot 64 or a really good round like that was today, but I played very well yesterday.  I think I missed one fairway yesterday and two or three greens, so I had some confidence coming into today. 

I was honestly more concerned trying to make sure I finished in the Top 60, to make sure I could play the 36 holes tomorrow, because I guess they are going to cut to the low 60 and ties instead of 70, so I wanted to have a chance to play tomorrow; and got off to a nice start and kind of achieved that goal pretty early.  And in general, just tried to ride it out and not get ahead of myself and try to keep making birdies.


Q.  Inaudible?

TOM SCHERRER:   Maybe not 64 again, but I thought could I go out and play well and shoot in the 60s and kind of creep my way up there.  Certainly hope to shoot 64; I kind of hope that every round.  Doesn't happen all the time, obviously. 

But, you know, with the conditions, we were the first group out, so the greens were perfect.  Honestly, we had the course to ourselves.  We didn't have anyone in front of us for the first nine, and we made the turn and the last group to tee off was a hole or two in front of us, we never saw them.  And the group behind us, we never saw those guys either.  So we really had the course to ourselves.  It was just like playing the Saturday game back home. 


Q.  How wet was it? 

TOM SCHERRER:   You know, it wasn't bad.  We did have to play the ball up.  It would have been probably impossible to play it down.  But the course was in great shape.  I thought it held up very, very well. 


Q.  Brett was saying that he thought lift, clean and place was a two-stroke advantage, would you agree with that?

TOM SCHERRER:   Well, if you hit it in the fairway.  You know if you do hit it in the fairway, it's a huge advantage.  You know, the fairways here are pretty generous anyway, and with it being so wet, that makes them even bigger. 

So, yeah, you know, I don't know if I would put a shot on it, a shot or two, but certainly easier than playing it down. 

DAVE SENKO:  Let's go through your birdies, starting at 11.

TOM SCHERRER:   11 the par  5, I hit a perfect yardage for a pitching wedge.  Hit it maybe ten feet just to the right and knocked it right in.  Really nice, solid putt. 

Then 14, hit two great shots, a 7-iron to about 12 feet maybe and knocked that right in.  That pin is in a pretty easy spot.  It's in a low spot so everything is going to kind of collect to that pin. 

16, the par  5, I hit two good shots, a 2-iron in there maybe about 40 or 50 feet and ran that putt by about eight or ten feet, and fortunately knocked that in, which would have been a shame to 3-putt there and make a par after two good shots to get on there.  I hit a 3-iron in there and had 246 to the hole, and I think I carried it like 225 and it released just a little bit. 

No.  1, I hit a drive a lot further than I thought I could, and I had 60 yards to the hole, front pin, and hard to lay it back with a 3-wood on that hole.  But hit a nice wedge in there about 15 feet and knocked that in. 

Then the next hole, smashed a drive right in the middle.  Hit an 8-iron to about three feet. 

4, again from the fairway, hit a sand wedge to about two feet. 

7, I hit an 8-iron probably about ten feet again.  Pretty easy putt, right center and knocked it right in there.

Next hole, the par  5, I hit a good drive and a 3-wood just short of the green, six paces, chipped it up to a foot and tapped that in. 

So most of my birdies, I didn't really make any long putts.  They were just short ones that you kind of expect to make and fortunately I did make them.


Q.  When you make eight birdies, it's always nice; but no bogeys with it, is that like a bonus?

TOM SCHERRER:   Yeah, I didn't hit one funny shot out there.  You're right, any time you can avoid the bogeys, it's kind of a feather in your hat. 


Q.  You didn't play a lot during the season  -- what was your status?

TOM SCHERRER:   I played some on the Nationwide Tour and I knew my number would start getting in in the summer and the fall.  I made some changes over the winter.  So this year I kind of had the idea that I'm just going to have some patience this year and give myself some time to make these changes to get better.  So I think that's helped me stay patient, jumping back and forth a little bit. 

I've been very happy with the progress I've made the last four or five months.  Things are starting to click in and feel better. 


Q.  What did you do yesterday?

TOM SCHERRER:   Actually I got a massage, which was lovely.  I might need to get another one.  It worked pretty good. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT