MICHELOB CHAMPIONSHIP AT KINGSMILL
October 6, 2000
Tom Scherrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TOM SCHERRER:  I played great.  If I could go back five hours and say you are going to shoot 64, I'd have been thrilled, but to make bogey the last two holes makes me a little unhappy to say the least.  But I made the cut which was kind of my goal starting the day from where I started and I am in pretty good shape, so if I can have a good weekend like I did last year and kind of sneak up there somewhere.


Q.  Do you focus more on the 64 or the two bogeys?

TOM SCHERRER:  Right now I am focusing on the two bogeys, but once I go back and take a shower and have dinner I will be pretty proud of what I did.


Q.  On the front were you draining some real tough putts or were they easy putts?

TOM SCHERRER:  Yeah, I was.  The first hole I made like maybe a 12-footer, second hole the par 3,  hit a good shot in there just to the right, to kind of go up a ridge only like 18 feet, but it was a tough putt, and knocked that in.  Then the par 5, I chipped up real close and then the next hole I made about a 12-footer, so it wasn't like 60-footers, but I was definitely making some putts.  Then 5 Corey and Rory -- no, 6, I almost birdied 5, the par 3 hit in there about 15 or 18 feet just kind of pushed it a little bit.  Then next hole Corey and Rory were on my line and I saw theirs kind of break to the right and I hit mine, kind of snuck in the side door but had two looks at it.


Q.  How far was that?

TOM SCHERRER:  That was probably maybe 15, 18 feet.  But again it was kind up a ridge so really -- you are not going to make that putt all the time just on days like This.  Then the par 5, 7, I left one just hangin on the edge, on the front edge, hit a 25-footer, kind of left it peaking over the front.


Q.  What happened on 7, in other words, you didn't get it close on your second shot?

TOM SCHERRER:  No, had hit 2-iron off the tee.  That tee shot is a tough tee shot for me for  whatever reason, so I just kind of hit driver yesterday and -- that is kind of a lay-up hole for me.  It doesn't -- I don't feel too comfortable on that tee.  So I will just take a wedge in there; hopefully the next two days.  Then the 8th hole, birdied 8, made a long putt on 8, made probably about 25- or 30-footer up a ridge right in the middle of the hole to get me the 6-iron -- and I had never shot 29 before in a tournament or just playing with friends at home, so hit a good drive on 9.  I said I might as well birdie this, and shoot 29, and I hit a good 4-iron and made about a 20-footer there to shoot 29.  Then the 10th hole I hit a good drive and 8-iron about twelve feet, hit a good putt, just missed that.  Then 11 hit 8-iron about 15 feet, knocked that right in the hole.  Then 12th hole, where I did bogey, hit it left off the tee, hit a tree and punched out and hit a wedge for my third shot to about twelve feet and horseshoed that one, so it was kind of unlucky in the sense to make bogey there.  That putt could have curled in just as easy as not.  Then the par 3, hit a good shot in there  about 20 feet, hit a good putt that looked like it was going to break in the hole, just kind of went a foot or so by.  Then the next hole hit a good drive and had a little wedge in there about ten feet, made that.  The par 5 I hit it in two, had about, again, about a 20-footer.  Hit a good putt there about a foot past the hole trying to break in the hole, but little bit too much speed, tapped that in.


Q.  What did you hit for your second shot?

TOM SCHERRER:  3-wood.


Q.  Did you have second thoughts at all about not going for it?  You were back a little farther?

TOM SCHERRER:  Little bit.  I was kind of on the left side.  I had the hill to contend with.  It was really debatable.  I was worrying about it.  Then I went to address it.  I said, oh, I am at a sprinkler and said I could take a drop and move it a club back and had a decent lie, but it was okay.  I figured what the heck I might as well try.  Anywhere short or left is okay, you know, right is trouble.  Hit a really good - right on the green, you know, fringe, about 20 feet.  Then 16 hit a good drive and nice 7-iron right which I was aiming about 20 feet to the right of  the hole and hit a good putt there that didn't really get a good roll.  Kind of bouncing a little bit, hung out to the right,.  Then 17 I hit the wrong club off the tee, hit a 7-iron instead of an 8 and went probably 30 or 40 feet long and 3-putted.


Q.  How long was that second putt?

TOM SCHERRER:  Six feet.  And didn't hit a very good putt there. Then last hole, good tee shot, little too far.  That is a pretty tough tee shot.  You don't want to go left and right -- hit it pretty good, happy where I hit it, just went about 4 yards through the fairway; couldn't get to the green, laid it up, just short of the green and kind of hit a mediocre chip. Didn't hit it too solid, and hit a good putt just left that in the front edge.  So if I can go back, I could have, you know, I was lucky to shoot what I did.  I made a lot of nice putts but the putts that I didn't miss, I could have done, you know, realistically those could have gone, you know, it would have really been my day to shoot 60 or 59, of course, but it could have been better.  You do, no matter what you shoot, you do leave some shots out there. 


Q.  How long was your last putt at 18?

TOM SCHERRER:  15 feet probably.  And hit it 14 feet 11 inches.


Q.  Do you think you have more than one of these in you for the weekend now?

TOM SCHERRER:  I don't know.  Hopefully.  I remember last year on the weekend I shot 66, 68 to move up to fifth.  So I do have good feelings here.  I like the golf course.  It is in great shape. Certainly two 64s would probably win, but I guess there is some weather coming in.  So who knows, I am just happy to be where I am, and kind of -- I met my first goal which was making the cut.  That was a big priority for me starting the day from where I did start.  So we will see.


Q.  What is your lowest nine?

TOM SCHERRER:  29.  I have shot 30 a bunch of times but never 29.  So that was kind of cool.


Q.  Would you have thought before that you would have had a 29 and not birdie 7 because that is what we were saying, was that it seemed strange you parred 7, but still shot 29 --

TOM SCHERRER:  Yeah, you would certainly think you'd have to eagle that hole if someone were going to do it, I think.  It is a crazy game. 


Q.  You said before this, your thoughts of 59 did enter your head after the front.  Do you think that affected you whatsoever?

TOM SCHERRER:  No.  I kind of -- I was kind of -- I don't know how serious I was thinking, geez -- but you know, going down the last few holes I am like after I birdied the par 5, I am like I can birdie these last 3, and hit a good shot there on 16, and really didn't hit a bad shot on 17 and 18 just the wrong club on 17 and, you know, if I could just move my drive over a little bit, but I didn't hit any bad shots.


Q.  Is there a point during a round like that where you just say, wow, this is all --

TOM SCHERRER:  A little bit.  I was kind of laughing, and you know, Rory is like what did you do with your putter last year, did you sleep with it.  I said, I don't know what I am doing, just leave me alone.  But it was a fun day.  It was.  I really haven't been putting too well the last three months. I am hitting the ball pretty good so it is nice to see that ball disappear.


Q.  Do you have much of a following here from Chapel Hill?

TOM SCHERRER:  No, I have got my father  down.  I have got some friends from Richmond from the Nike Tour days, a handful of people came down.  I will have some friends this weekend from the DC area, bunch high school guys from my area live in DC, so they are going to come down this weekend.


Q.  Where are you living now?

TOM SCHERRER:  Orlando.


Q.  Was the putting the key difference between yesterday and today and were you striking the ball about the same, the putting was the difference and did you, when you first started, did you feel that much different over the ball when you were putting?

TOM SCHERRER:  No, I didn't really feel any different.  I think I played better today.  I drove the ball a lot better.  Yesterday I didn't hit as many fairways.  I kind of live and die with my putting probably like most of us out here.  My irons seemed to always be pretty good, knock on wood, and if I can drive the ball, I know I will have my next shot on the green and have some birdied putts; whether they go in or not, just I think we all struggle with that.  But I gave myself a lot of chances, and they just went in.


Q.  Even if you are only thinking semi-seriously about 59 does that still raise the excitement level (inaudible) -- 

TOM SCHERRER:  I didn't get all worked up or anything, but I hit it in there pretty close on 10 and almost birdied -- came right back and birdied 11.  It was fun.  I didn't get nervous and think about it, I am like, well, let's just see what happens, and let's keep rolling with it.  And really didn't hit any bad shots, like the one tee shot on, I guess 12, I hit it a little left and trying to come back, just chipped a tree, but I hit a lot of good shots coming in which is reassuring that I didn't, you know, looking -- somebody is going to look at my scored card and say, oh, he got nervous; he hit some bad shots, but no, I didn't hit bad shots; just wrong club and maybe some bad aim on the tee.  So I will take that with me, that I had a chance and played well coming down the stretch.


Q.  In the locker room how magical is that No. 59; would you be like famous for life if --

TOM SCHERRER:  Probably.  Who has only done it?  Chip Beck, Geiberger ...


Q.  Duval?

TOM SCHERRER:  And Duval.  So that is three people.  Those guys on the Nike Tour, but only three on the PGA TOUR and the Tour is what, since 1930  something, so 70 years, if you can move over to baseball, perfect game, or whatever, I don't think really anything would compare like the 59s, other than Byron Nelson's streak.  That will certainly never ever be touched.  Although I shouldn't say that.  (laughs).


Q.  Do you think it would be possible here, I mean, this is a course that has yielded a lot of low scores --

TOM SCHERRER:  I don't know.  If I had to pick, I'd probably say no.  Guys are so good out here, I mean, every week you look at the scoreboard, like my God, how did the guy shoot that, whether it is here or where we were last week or where we are going next week, you still have to make a lot of putts and hit the ball good.  So I don't know if you can really put your finger on it and say this is the week someone is going to do it or that week or that course or this course.  It kind of just happens when you get it going.


Q.  Am I right you are from Syracuse originally?

TOM SCHERRER:  Skaneateles, just outside Syracuse.


Q.  How much high school golf do you get to play up in that neck of the woods?

TOM SCHERRER:  Not much.  The season was  probably seven months at best and then I played hockey in the winter.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT