INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY QWEST
August 3, 2000
Tom Scherrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TOM SCHERRER:  I played very well.  I am thrilled.  Kind of been struggling the last, maybe month or so with my game.  Haven't been driving it too well or putting it too good either.  Just kind of clicked, and feel a lot better. 
 

Q.  Birdies and bogies?
 
TOM SCHERRER:  Yes, had to lay up.  Hit it just in the rough, and hit a pretty good shot in there about 15 feet or so; made that.  Made a nice putt, which kind of got the confidence going right away.  Bogeyed the next hole.  Kind of hit a good shot to get into the fairway, and then just kind of hit a little too easy wedge.  I think the altitude might have gotten me there a little bit.   So wasn't too upset.  I was still one point ahead of the game. 
 

Q.  Missed the green there?
 
TOM SCHERRER:  Yeah, just short.  Had a buried lie in the bunker.  Actually was almost playing for a 5 after that plugged lie. 
 
TOM SCHERRER:  Hit a nice little wedge in there about six or eight feet; knocked it right in the middle.  Hit it right where I was aiming.  Hit a nice, solid putt.  I hit a lot of nice, solid putts up to that point.  I think when that one went in, I thought maybe it could be my day. 
 
TOM SCHERRER:  Again, par 5.  Hit A decent drive, just a little bit too far left, and was kind of stuck behind the tree.  That is in the left side of the fairway.  And didn't have much room, and shot it up.  Actually missed the green to the right.  It hit in the trees, kicked out just short of the green; made a nice up-and-down.  Made about a 12-footer there.  So if I had a good bounce, I make 4; bad bounce, I make 6 or 7.  So felt like I might have stolen a few there.   Birdied 10, which doesn't happen too often, at least for me.  Hit a nice drive and 6-iron about 25 feet.  And Gabriel had a putt -- just hit it just in front of me.  I got a great read off of his, so kind of got an assist from him. 
 
TOM SCHERRER:  13, hit 3-wood off the tee, which is a little aggressive.  I think I wanted to get it out there pretty good, and I did.  Hit a nice sand wedge to, again, about twelve feet, just right of the hole.  Kind of a smart shot.  Knocked that right in.  Then the par 5, hit -- actually hit a poor drive to the left and had to lay up again and hit a 7-iron about 12 feet, 15 feet.  Knocked that in, and Justin kind of was right in front of me.  I got a nice read off of him.  Pretty routine.  Hit a 3-wood off the tee, sand wedge about, again, about 10 feet; knocked it right in.  Then 17, hit a good drive.  Then a 3-iron just off the front edge to the right, and made a nice 2-putt.  Hit my first putt about three feet.  Knocked that one in. 
 

Q.  About how far of a 2-putt? 
 
TOM SCHERRER:  It was probably a 30-footer, 35-footer.  Putted up to about three feet.  18, I left one hanging on the right edge for birdie, so would have liked to seen that go in. 
 

Q.  How far a putt there?
 
TOM SCHERRER:  Oh, probably 20 feet.  So would have loved to have seen that go in; but I made my share, so I am not disappointed. 
 

Q.  Yet you have had kind of a rollercoaster season, and on the downslide kind of thing, what did you do here to improve your driving, your putting, or is it just --
 
TOM SCHERRER:  I wish I knew, because then I wouldn't have gotten in the trouble to begin with.  But I have been very happy with my year, up until Hartford I played pretty poorly and I got sick at the British Open and took a few weeks off in between.  So I think probably just coming in maybe a little rested and, you know, I love it here.  We get treated like a king.  The golf course is perfect.  So I think the weather was great.  How can you not come out in a good mood? 
 

Q.  You talked about not playing well as of late.  Are you talking about since your victory at Kemper you haven't played well or talking about kind  of up and down?
 
TOM SCHERRER:  I have been very happy with my year.  The last maybe month or so has -- Hartford I played horrible, then I took a few weeks off, played the British -- I was sick.  Played mediocre there. Just didn't feel comfortable.  But overall, I am pretty happy with my year. And maybe part of the reason I was on the kind of the downside was it is the middle of the year, and I played a lot of golf up until that point, so I think taking a few weeks off the last few weeks has helped me. 
 

Q.  You have had sort of an up-and-down career too.  Do you feel like you are where you always wanted to be now?
 
TOM SCHERRER:  Definitely.  Yeah.  It has been up and down, but I think I have improved every year.  I got out here in 1996, played well early in the year, and I hurt my shoulder and kind of struggled and fell back down for a couple of years.  I am not embarrassed playing the BUY.COM or hang my hat.  I think that is a great place to play, and it could be the second best Tour in the world or third best Tour in the world.  So I am not unhappy that I ended up there for a few years.   Came back out here, and at least I will be here for another couple of years anyway. 
 

Q.  You had a good first round last year.  Nine points.  Certainly not as good as you start off this year.  But can you tell us, how does this course suit your game?
 
TOM SCHERRER:  I think pretty good.  I think if you are playing good, you are going to play good no matter where you are.  And I played a good round today.  I think it is a fair golf course.  If you play well, you can shoot a nice score, but if you are a little off here or there, you can be in trouble, get the wrong side of the hole or miss the green shortside yourself.  You could be in for a long day.  But I think it is pretty fair.  And I don't really see, you know, maybe a longer hitter might have a little bit of an advantage on the par 5s, which I think I am a pretty average hitter length-wise.  So hopefully, you know, I can play good for three more days and see what happens. 
 

Q.  Was there a time last year, this year that you really thought that:  "Yeah, I belong out here on the PGA TOUR"?   Is there one turning point or event?
 
TOM SCHERRER:  I remember my third tournament in 1996 as a pro I finished third in the Phoenix  Open.  So right out of the box I thought:  Geez, this isn't too hard.  And learned my lesson.  But I think -- I don't know if I can pick a spot, but I think it is just gradually it happens.  You get to know everyone; you see the golf courses for maybe a second or third time, which makes all the difference in the world.  So I don't know if I can pinpoint it to one round or one tournament.  It is just a gradual process. 
 

Q.  How did you get started playing as a kid?
 
TOM SCHERRER:  Just kind of hanging around the golf course, caddying for my father.  You know, I was one of those kids that hung around the pro shop and was kind of a range rat and really enjoyed it. 
 

Q.  Where was that?
 
TOM SCHERRER:  That was in Skaneateles, New York. 
 

Q.  Where is that?
 
TOM SCHERRER:  Which is outside of Syracuse. 
 

Q.  Outside of Syracuse?
 
TOM SCHERRER:  Yes. 
 

Q.  Is that near Horseheads?
 
TOM SCHERRER:  Not -- you know, a couple of hours, an hour, maybe.  
 

Q.  How did you choose between hockey and golf? Hockey was your high school --
 
TOM SCHERRER:  It was pretty easy with -- winter was hockey.  Couldn't play golf.  Then vice versa.  And I kind of had to make a choice to see which path I wanted.  And sometimes I regret going this way.  I would have liked to have maybe gone that way.  But today I am glad I stuck with golf. 
 

Q.  Were you to a point in your hockey that you thought about maybe playing collegiately that way?
 
TOM SCHERRER:  Yeah, I could have. 
 

Q.  Any offers?
 
TOM SCHERRER:  I could have walked on a few, possibly some Division I schools up in New York, or certainly some Division II or IIIs.  And I think if I had gone back to earlier in high school and really committed myself to hockey, like I did to golf, I think I could have been -- could have gone to a decent Division I school. 
 

Q.  You talked about all the difference in the world having played a course two or three times.  Can you throw out two or three things about this course that you learned the hard way, that you don't want to be in a certain spot, or --
 
TOM SCHERRER:  Well, I don't know if I can  really pin it down to one, to give you really a good example.  But it is just, you know, missing a green. Or I think the tough part is when you are a rookie, you get to play it one time.  You play it on Tuesday, and if a hole is downwind, boom, you hit it there, like on the green, and:  Oh, this isn't too hard.  Then when you see it Thursday, the wind is into you.  You are now like:  Can I carry that?  Is the driver too much or too little?  So there is -- you know, I don't know if there is really one thing.  But I think that is part of the process.  Guys have played here for ten years and, you know, some poor kids that has seen it one time teeing up on Thursday, I mean, he is definitely behind the ball. 
 

Q.  You have had a good year, as you said, but you have also, you know, you have played a lot.  You have missed a lot of cuts.  Can you explain the ups and downs?
 
TOM SCHERRER:  Not really.  It is golf.  But I have been happy with my process.  I have played well.  If I take away the last month of the season, I'd be thrilled.  And I am still very happy, and we still have a long way to go this year.   So hopefully I can keep playing well here, have another good finish somewhere down the road, and have an incredible year.  But that is just part of me trying to get better; maybe just some different things, and -- other than Hartford, I don't think I have really played poorly this year.  I have missed a few cuts, but I have played okay. 
 

Q.  What does finally winning do for you confidence-wise?
 
TOM SCHERRER:  A lot of things.  I know I can do it, for one.  Have a little job security for a few years, which is really nice.  But I think it makes you want to do it again.  It was a lot of fun, and I wouldn't mind getting into the habit of doing that a couple of times a year. 
 

Q.  You said -- do you do anything differently equipment-wise here?
 
TOM SCHERRER:  No. 
 

Q.  Same stuff?
 
TOM SCHERRER:  Yes.  Actually, I put in a 7-wood and took out my 2-iron, which I didn't even hit my 7-wood today. 
 

Q.  Want to get it up in the air?
 
TOM SCHERRER:  Exactly.  Second shot on the 8th hole, if you have to go over the trees.  17, those two jump out right away, which is why I wanted to go with the 7-wood.  Maybe a couple of shots out of the rough, which I didn't have any of those today.  But I think, you know, getting the 7-wood up in the air. 
 

Q.  You like playing Nicklaus courses?
 
TOM SCHERRER:  I do. 
 

Q.  Did well at Muirfield. 
 
TOM SCHERRER:  Yeah, I don't know if I can explain it.  But I seem to have played pretty well on his courses and wish we played a few more. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT