KEMPER INSURANCE OPEN
June 4, 2000
Tom Scherrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 TOM SCHERRER: It's tremendous. I've been in the media room after the first round, the
second round, and even the third round a couple of times. And to be in here Sunday
afternoon is really special and I'm so pleased that my wife and baby were here. My parents
were watching at home. It's just been a dream week. And oddly enough, I remember at the
TPC this year where we would eat, there was a trophy room of all the trophies from every
tournament on the TOUR, and I remember looking at them and thinking, that Kemper Open is
really nice, big -- I said, "That's one of the better looking ones in there." So
here I am a few months later and I've got it.  
 
Q. Are you going to call your Pro-Am fivesome and tell them they were right?
 
 TOM SCHERRER: I might have to buy them a drink if I see them again. I'm sure I'll catch
up with them sometime. One of my Pro-Am guys, I think putted pretty well on Wednesday; I
didn't putt very good. Hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in. And one of the guys, I
think his name was Jim Herr gave me a ball mark, a solid gold ball mark from South America
or South Africa or something. He said, "If you use this ball mark, you'll win the
tournament." "All right, all right. I'll try it." Sure enough, the first
day I played pretty well. I'm going to have that ball mark for a long time. 
 
Q. When the field is jumbled as it was and so close, when did you know or when did you
have a good feeling about this? Was it on 18 or was it when Steve had the ball in the
water on 17? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: I was pretty uncomfortable on the 18th tee. When I hit it in the fairway,
I knew I had a one-shot lead and 17 and 18 are pretty tough holes. And walking off the tee
I heard the crowd kind of moan, and Steve, unfortunately, hit it in the water. So I kind
of knew that, you know, I had maybe a two-shot lead, but it didn't make it any easier. I
still had to hit a pretty good shot on the last hole. The 2-putt, if I had it in any other
circumstance, I would not think twice, but having the 2-putt to win a tournament is a
little tougher than it seems. So I'm very happy that I did.  
 
Q. Did you turn around and hear that moan? Did you see what happened?
 
 TOM SCHERRER: I didn't see it. But we were walking off the tee, which is kind of just
parallel and I looked over and saw Franklin Langham was already walking, so I figured that
it was Steve. So that probably helped me a little bit.  
 
Q. Did somebody tell you?
 
 TOM SCHERRER: No. You could kind of tell with the moan. I figured it was in the water
or else it was in the bunker or something. And then my caddie did tell me he did hit it in
the water. 
 
Q. When? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: On the green, when I had my 15-footer. He said that he did hit it in the
water, "so let's 2-putt and get out of here."  
 
Q. Was there a moment -- when you heard it was in the water or when you landed on the
green was there a moment that you had a wave of emotion or feeling or did it not come
until you made the last one?
 
 TOM SCHERRER: It came -- I hit my putt by only a foot or so, and, I don't want to have
any putts longer than that on the last hole again. But I was fine. I wasn't emotional or
anything and then I saw my wife and she was choked up, fighting back some tears, and I got
a little teary-eyed, and having little Tommy there just made it very special.  
 
Q. At 15, you were next to a Rubber Maid container? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: It was under the TV crane or something. I hit a horrible shot. I didn't
feel comfortable. That's a tough tee shot.  
 
Q. 16?
 
 TOM SCHERRER: Sorry, 16. And made an unbelievable par. I took a drop, hit it in the
bunker and made a nice up-and-down. They don't put those cranes in the middle of the
fairway, they are way right and that's right where I hit it.  
 
Q. How close to the crane were you?
 
 TOM SCHERRER: I was under it. I was under it.  
 
Q. You mentioned the gold tee marker, and that must be an emotional thing, but the
question I ask, is it to the point where it's just little, insignificant things that
determine a winner and not winning on this tour? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: Well, it takes a lot of luck. It's a putt here, a putt there. It's maybe
a good lie in the rough, a putt that lips in, a shot that spins back close to the hole
rather than going over. If you finish -- I think if you finish in the Top-10, you
definitely have a chance to win. And the breaks just kind of went my way and Steve or
Franklin or any one of those guys up there could just as easily have won. 
 
Q. When you make the incredible save at 15 and then the incredible save at 16, is that
when you first thought, okay; the shot you had on 16 was such a loose swing and then you
didn't make anymore swings that were even remotely similar to that; is that when you said
"It's mine"?
 
 TOM SCHERRER: A little bit. It's embarrassing to hit a shot that far off line. I kind
of got on myself a little bit, "You can't do this. Too hard. Just got to trust your
swing." On 18 I hit a beautiful 3-wood right, right off the tee and, thank God, I had
a 9-iron in and not a 4-iron or something.  
 
Q. What did you think of Steve's shot on 18? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: Well, pretty awesome. I didn't really see it. I just heard the crowd.
Steve is a great player. He's won out here before. He's knocking on the door, it seems
like almost every week. Yeah, I feel bad for him, because he certainly could have won. And
it's really hard playing with a lead going into the last day. All the pressure is on him
and all the odds are on him. There wasn't quite as much pressure on me. We were out before
him, and so it's tough playing in that lead spot. 
 
Q. Does this get you into the Open? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: I don't think so. I'm playing at Woodmont tomorrow at 8:00 something. I
wish it did.  
 
Q. I think you're the eighth or ninth first-time winner here. Steve didn't have much of
an explanation of why that happens but did you have an explanation? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: I wish I did. I don't know. It's just one of those things, I guess.  
 
Q. Your wife had mentioned that she doesn't -- she gets really emotional, nervous
watching you play. Has that happened for a long time? Are you equally as emotional on the
course? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: I'm pretty good. When we first got married at the end of '95, then she
started traveling in '96 and the first tournament I played in was Tucson. And she would
not watch me putt. She would put her head in her lap, cover her eyes. I'm like, "Jen,
this isn't going to work." (Laughter.) So the first few holes in Tucson, I said,
"All right I'll make a deal. If I birdie one of the first four or five holes, you
have to watch me putt." And, you know the 1st hole was like a wedge, the next hole a
par 5 and a couple other wedges; so I kind of figured I might birdie one of the first few
holes back in '96. And sure enough I did. So she's had to watch me.  
 
Q. Can you take us through 15, as well? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: That's a tough tee shot for me. I never feel too comfortable there; so I
hit a 3-wood. Hit it pretty good, right out in the left side and kind of had a hanging
lie, and hit a good 5-iron that just kind of drifted a little bit because of the lie and
the ball is below my feet. And then walking up to it, I said to my caddie. I'm like,
"you know, everything is going to funnel right to the hole so it should not be too
hard of a chip." Had a little bit of a tough lie and then actually chunked it a
little bit, but it had enough steam and got down there and made an awesome putt. 
 
Q. How far was that putt? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: Oh, 10 feet, maybe, which I'll remember that putt for a long time.  
 
Q. I think you were 8-under on the par 4s and maybe 5-under on the par 5s. To me, that
was -- might have been -- if it was reversed, do you normally play the par 4s better than
you play the 5s? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: It seems like it. I think that I'm one of the better par 3 players, too.
I know I was last year. It seems like I make a lot of birdies on par 3s. If anything that
I struggle with, that would be my driver. And that would have something to do with my par
5 troubles.  
 
Q. You were in the room last week at Memorial, I think on Friday, and then came back
with a 75-75 on the weekend. Did you take something out of that? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: Well, I saw David Leadbetter, Monday Tuesday, Wednesday, and he gave me a
few pointers. 
 
Q. Here? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: At Muirfield. And played pretty well the first two days and even played
well on Saturday. I finished bogey-double. If I could have parred those last two, I would
have -- sort of been in contention, certainly not to win, but maybe had a nice finish. And
then the last day, I kind of struggled with my driver, hit it all over the map, shot 75.
So I kind of had mixed feelings coming here, kind of close to playing good or close to
playing bad. But I tried to look at the positives.  
 
Q. How important was your caddie in keeping you kind of together and focused and that
sort of thing? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: Jim Springer is my caddie. He's been with me for -- since early '98. So
we've been together a while. We're a very good team that works well. We're good friends
off the course, as well. I think he's been out here maybe 16 or 17 years and he's won a
tournament before with Brad Bryant. I feel very comfortable with him, and listen to him,
getting advice from him. So I think his experience certainly helped me.  
 
Q. How does a fellow from a cold part of New York State get into golf, where it doesn't
seem like a likely golf place. Can you take us through what got you here?
 
 TOM SCHERRER: Growing up outside of Syracuse, the golf season is at best six months.
And I played hockey in the winter and golf in the summers, spring. But, there's been a lot
of good players from New York, Jeff Sluman, Mike Holbrook, have all kind of come out of
the same area. They have done it.  
 
Q. For years, the question that you've answered has been about the Masters and about
Justin and that Amateur. Does it strike you as ironic that Justin was one of the guys that
was up there? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: I was a little worried about that. I'm like, "This guy is going to
do it to me again." But I guess -- I saw that he doubled the 12th hole, and I don't
know what he finished, up there somewhere. To beat a guy like that, with his record, his
experience, was again something I can tell my grandkids. 
 
Q. What was the score in that Amateur? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: He beat me pretty good; 7-6.  
 
Q. You were already asked about the fact that this tournament lends itself to
first-time winners, and while nobody really knows why that is, there are big names,
Couples, Norman who have won here. How does that make you feel to be latched in with that?

 
 TOM SCHERRER: Feels great. I'd like to have half the career those guys have had. I'd
kind of walk by the locker room every day, I did see Freddie when he was just a baby, he
looks like 22 or 23, Norman, Stuart Appleby, Rich Beem, just kind of got some momentum and
said, "Gee, if those guys can do it, I ought to be able to do it." So it feels
great.  
 
Q. A lot of guys who play hockey make a choice to play left-handed a lot. What was your
-- did you have a choice on that? Did you think about that? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: I played hockey lefty, and I did pretty much everything else righty. I
don't know why I was left in hockey. It was just natural.  
 
Q. For your age, do you feel like your career has moved on fairly quickly, about right,
are you on track? What's the goal?
 
 TOM SCHERRER: About eight years for an overnight success, maybe. No, I've been very
happy with my career. I feel I've gotten better every year. I got out here when I was 25,
which is a pretty good achievement. Played well right away. I finished third in Phoenix,
had a chance. I lost to Phil Mickelson by a shot, being in the last group with Justin,
oddly enough. And I had some shoulder troubles and fell back down and slowly kind of
worked my way back up. So I think as I have my whole year, even as a young boy, I remember
just sitting with my father, and, "Gee, Dad, maybe I can break 100 this year."
"Well, if you work hard." And next winter, I can break 90, and 80 and 70. So I'm
pretty much a hard worker. And I'm just going to keep plugging it long.  
 
Q. Assuming you stay in the position you're in and get in the Masters, will you
actually go next year?
 
 TOM SCHERRER: Probably. I think I can clear my schedule.  
 
Q. What was the decision not to go in '92? Was that just a decision to turn pro?
 
 TOM SCHERRER: Yes. Again, growing up in upstate New York, I think if I had won, I would
have stayed amateur and enjoyed all the things that came with being an Amateur champion.
But I finished second and it was kind of hard for me to put a whole year on hold, having
no money and thought it would be best for me to turn pro and move on.  
 
Q. What did you do that year? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: I went to TOUR school and got on the Nike Tour in '93.  
 
Q. After your shoulder surgery, did you do any extra -- build any additional habits for
your conditioning that give you an edge now?
 
 TOM SCHERRER: I didn't have surgery. I just had some troubles and rehab and such.
Actually I've lost about 30 pounds since March. I felt that I needed to lose some weight
and get in shape, and I do work out fairly regularly. So I think the shoulder troubles
with rehabing I figured I might as well go all the way. 
 
Q. Strength training? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: Yes.  
 
Q. You mentioned that you played hockey when you were younger. Is there something about
the hockey swing that you apply towards your golf swing? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: You know, again I played hockey left-handed, which was kind of strange. I
don't know, similar kind of movement maybe. I know a lot of good hockey players are good
golfers, but they have got their summers off. So maybe the baseball guys if they had their
summers off, maybe they would be better, or other sports.  
 
Q. Are you kind of interested to see how, if at all your life is going to change now?
 
 TOM SCHERRER: Yes. I'm sure it will change. Something I've been dreaming about forever.
And it's what every little kid tries to do. It's going to change my life, but it's not
going to change me. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT