THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
May 26, 2000
Tom Scherrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 TOM SCHERRER: Again, very happy with how I played. Didn't drive the ball quite as good
as I did yesterday, and made a few bogeys because of that. But every time I made a bogey,
I seemed to bounce right back with a birdie. So, I didn't really have time to get upset at
myself.  
 
 TOM SCHERRER: I bogeyed the 3rd hole. I hit my tee shot just a few feet in the rough,
and really had a terrible lie. And it's too risky to go over the water; so, I just kind of
took my medicine and chipped out and left myself a reasonable chance for a par. Missed
about an 8-footer. And then bounced right back on the par 3. I hit a 6-iron in there about
maybe 10 feet and knocked that right in. So I kind of righted the ship right away, which
was nice. 6th hole, hit a great drive, wedge in there about eight feet and made that. I
bogeyed 10 again. I hit that just in the rough and couldn't go to the green. Had to lay up
short and didn't get up-and-down. And sure enough, I bounced right back and I birdied 11
to make a nice putt, about a 15- or 20-footer right down in the hole. And then birdied the
par 3 12th hole. Made about a 15-footer. Sure enough, 14, I bogeyed. Didn't hit really a
bad shot in there, just a little long. I was worried about short and right with the water;
and hit it in the bunker played for a bogey, basically. Came right back and birdied the
par 5. Hit it just over the green and chipped up to a few feet and tapped it in. 18, hit a
good shot in there, just hung up in the back fringe. I mean, that ball should -- you know,
just a half a roll, and it rolls right back about 15 feet. And had a really difficult
sliding, big left-to-right breaker and hit it by about six or eight feet and just missed
that.  
 
Q. You said you would have liked to take advantage of the conditions a little more. Do
you feel there's going to be some low scores today?
 
 TOM SCHERRER: There could be. I think the wind was picking up a little bit as we were
coming in. Certainly not like yesterday. But the greens are so good that I think someone
is going to make a little run. I guess Harrison is certainly doing that.  
 
Q. With the way the weather is supposed to change tonight and the kind of conditions
that you're supposed to have out here the next two days, how does that affect the guys who
are playing well now? Does it change it for some of them or can some of them keep playing
well or does it favor a certain type of player? You're going to be shooting darts out
there I think for the next few days.
 
 TOM SCHERRER: It's hard to tell with what's coming. I think growing up in upstate New
York, I think -- hopefully, that it might help me, certainly, growing up in bad weather.
But I think the big thing is if we do go off the two tees, everyone is going to be kind of
bunched together on the course. You're not going to have guys going off the tee at 7:00 in
the morning and leaders go off at 2:00, because the conditions can change so much between
that. So I think everyone is going to have kind of the same conditions to play in; so, it
might be harder for those guys to make up some ground. 
 
Q. Did you have a chance to play Harrison Frazar? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: On the Nike Tour a few times. I don't think I've played with him out here
in the last few years, but on the Nike Tour, I think I played with him a couple times. 
 
Q. Do you think he's changed much? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: Well, he's better than he was back then. I think we both are. You know,
he's a big hitter, which I think probably favors him here this week, and he's certainly
taking advantage of it.  
 
Q. Are you a big hitter also? You hit pitching wedge for your second shot on No. 6? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: I don't think I'm in Harrison's class, but I can get it out there once in
a while if I hit it solid. 
 
Q. You don't see many bright orange shirts out here. Is there a story behind that? Do
you wear those colors every day?
 
 TOM SCHERRER: Orange is my favorite color. So my sponsor bought me some orange shirts. 
 
Q. Take some ribbing in the locker room?
 
 TOM SCHERRER: A little bit. The Florida Gators; it's a Gator shirt, or Syracuse or
Illinois or Clemson. So I make a lot of friends when I wear the orange.  
 
Q. Three years ago when Vijay won, and it took three days I think to play the last
round, Norman said that he was very good in those conditions because he carries -- of all
the long hitters, he carries the ball a long way; he doesn't depend on a lot of roll. Is
that the kind of player that this course might cater to over the weekend, if it gets a lot
of rain again? And besides Vijay, who are some of the other guys that carry the ball a
long way? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: Certainly, Harrison and I can get it out there pretty good. I don't know
who else is on the leaderboard, but certainly Tiger, that will favor him, the longer
hitters, definitely.  
 
Q. What kind of driver do you use? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: Callaway. Callaway driver. 7.5.  
 
Q. How long? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: 45. And I'm kind of guessing, but I think that's right. 
 
Q. How long have you used that Callaway? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: I've used a Callaway almost two years.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT