THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
May 25, 2000
Tom Scherrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 TOM SCHERRER: I was very happy with how I played today. I saw David Leadbetter
yesterday, and he kind of tightened a few screws for me and got me back on track. So I had
feelings before I teed off that I was possibly going to have a good day.  
 
 TOM SCHERRER: I birdied the 1st hole right out of the box. Hit it nice, through the
middle and I had an 8-iron and hit it about 15 feet, and sure enough, went right in the
middle of the hole. I thought I missed left, but it held its line. When that happens, you
wonder, "Well, maybe this is going to be my day." 5, had to lay-up on that hole,
and that pin was kind of tucked right over the water. So it played a little long, which I
did, and I happened to make a 20 -- 25-footer. So that was a bit of a bonus. 7, I hit a
nice wedge there about five or six feet. A little tricky of a putt, and sure enough that
went in. Bogeyed 10. Hit the wrong iron into the green short of the bunker into a terrible
lie. I was happy with 5 there. Birdied the next one, the par 5. Hit a nice wedge in there
probably about six feet. No. 12 was playing so hard. The wind was going every different
direction. One flag is going to the right; 11, it's blowing to the right. And obviously if
you're short there it's dead. I didn't hit a bad shot, but just leaked it a little bit and
kicked down, had to stand outside the bunker. So again, I was kind of playing for bogey on
that one as well. And I bogeyed the next one. Hit a pretty good tee shot leaked it just in
the right rough, terrible lie. Hit it about 40 yards short of the green and again had to
accept bogey. If I had gotten a better lie in the rough I would have been happier, but
where my lie was, I knew I would have to get up-and-down from 40 yards, and that's pretty
tough. And then interesting enough, on 14, Jim Courier, the tennis player, is a good
friend of mine, and I saw him on the tee there. So, that kind of pumped me up a little
bit, having him come out and watch me. I made a nice birdie there. Hit a wedge in there
about two or three feet. Made a nice par on the par 5. I hit it in two in the green-side
bunker. Had a long bunker shot. Left it in the bunker, and then hit the next one up a few
inches; so that was a little exciting. 17, hit a wedge in there about maybe 25 feet and it
was -- Steve Stricker and I, we were laughing. I had to move his ball mark over because it
was right in my line, and sure enough when I moved it, it went right over his ball marker.
So I said, "Don't tell anyone I pulled that." I hit it, I must have misread it
or something, but went right over his mark or something and in the hole. And made a nice
up-and-down on 18 from just over the green.  
 
Q. So we should have just asked you for pars. That would have been a lot faster; right?
 
 TOM SCHERRER: Yeah. Usually -- it's a little exciting, but I'll take it. 
 
Q. How tough was the course playing? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: I didn't think it was playing that tough. But I hit the ball pretty solid
and really stayed very, you know, in the present. I didn't really wander with my mind too
much, which sometimes I do, and I was just kind of in my own little bubble and just
worried about me.  
 
Q. Was it any different here this week because of Jack's presence? Does that make it --
does it make you more easily distracted, what you were just talking about, that this is
Jack's tournament? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: This tournament definitely has a different feel. It's almost like a
major. Even the practice rounds, there's people all over. You know, normally on a Tuesday,
there's no one out here, you know, a few spectators. So, it definitely has a different
feel and kind of gets you excited to play. 
 
Q. You have good feelings about this course I mean, talking to the '92 Amateur and all
that? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: Yeah. I played the Junior Amateur here and the U.S. aM, college
tournament, and this is my second Memorial, so I do feel pretty comfortable. I've probably
played this course probably the most of any course on TOUR, and I think that certainly
helps. You know, I've played good here and I've played bad here, but a little course
knowledge I think definitely helps. 
 
Q. How did you do in the Junior Amateur here?
 
 TOM SCHERRER: I shot 86-86 and missed the cut.  
 
Q. It would be good if you were nine years old --
 
 TOM SCHERRER: I think I was 15 or 16, and that was my first national tournament. So I
was a little bit overwhelmed coming here, you know. Every kid out here looked like he
could shoot 65. And seeing Mr. Nicklaus, it was pretty overwhelming, but it was a good
experience.  
 
Q. What year was that? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: '86.  
 
Q. Did you meet him or just see him?
 
 TOM SCHERRER: I think I met him. I think I introduced myself to him, which coming from
a small town in upstate New York, you don't see too many professional golfers. So it was a
little bit overwhelming. Even my parents were overwhelmed.  
 
Q. Have you ever been paired with Jack in a tournament?
 
 TOM SCHERRER: No. No.  
 
Q. So it must have been different in '92 then? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: Yeah. You know, I had just finished college, so I was more seasoned, and
again knowing the course. And I just happened to play well that week. And kind of ran into
a buzz saw in the finals against Justin Leonard.  
 
Q. Knowing you've had all that experience here, do you come into a week like this -- do
you look forward to it a little more, knowing you know the course so well? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: Certainly. The toughest part for the younger guys on TOUR is not knowing
the courses too well. You know, guys have been playing out here for 15 years. They know
not to hit it here or not go long on this hole, little things that can save you a shot or
two. So certainly, you know, I've got that going for me this week. But you still have to
play good.  
 
Q. You said you didn't think it was playing that tough. There's some guys out there who
would disagree with you. Is that just because of your knowledge of this course? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: Probably a little bit. You know, part of it I think is I drove it pretty
good; so I never really get into trouble. If you're struggling with your game, any golf
course can be pretty tough. But I happened to play well today, so I didn't think it was --
that it was horrible out there.  
 
Q. How far off were you and what kind of screw-tightening did Leadbetter do that
worked? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: He shortened my swing a little bit, a little bit in my posture, and a
little bit in my takeaway. So it sounds like a lot, but it's really not.  
 
Q. How had you been playing before? 
 
 TOM SCHERRER: Pretty good. I probably hadn't seen him in a month and a half; so I was
kind of glad to see him Tuesday walking around.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT