CANON GREATER HARTFORD OPEN
July 29, 1999
Tom Scherrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TOM SCHERRER: Obviously, very happy. I think the key to my round was I drove it in the fairway pretty much the whole day. I missed two fairways, one of which I made a birdie from the rough. The other, I made a bogey. I made a few putts. Hit it pretty close. Could have been a little better. Obviously, very thrilled.

TOM SCHERRER: Hit a great drive down the middle. Probably one of the toughest holes out here. Hit a 6-iron probably eight or ten feet and rolled that right in the heart. What a great way to start. I was a little nervous starting on that hole. Next hole, I hit an 8-iron again, maybe a little closer, maybe six feet and knocked that right in. Getting off to a great start like that, everything just kind of -- you just relax a little bit and let it happen.

TOM SCHERRER: Dogleg-left. Hit a great drive. Pitching wedge to about maybe 15 feet. Knocked that right in the heart. Actually missed a makeable birdie putt on the par 5 right before that. Missed about a 6-footer. So I was happy to get it -- you know, kind of get it right back on the next one. And then the short hole, laid up. Thought that was a pretty smart play. And then hit a sand wedge, about 12, 15 feet and knocked that right in. And then 16, the par 3, I missed maybe a 12-footer. Hit a good putt. Hit a good putt. And then 17 is when I missed fairway left with 3-wood. Had a decent lie in the rough, but I was more concerned to be over the water, and, you know, maybe make a 4 or 5 from over the green. Didn't want to make a 6 by hitting it short in the water. And sure enough, 18, backed it up with a birdie with a 7-iron about 12 feet and right behind the hole and knocked that one right in; so I was real happy to get back that one that I lost on 17. Birdied No. 2. No. 2, hit a 3-wood off the tee. And hit it a little further than I thought. I had about 67 yards to the front pin, which is a little too close for me, and fortunately I hit a great shot in there probably six or seven feet and knocked that right in. At that point, I knew that if I can just stay calm, this could be a great day.

TOM SCHERRER: I have a hard time remembering. Dogleg-right. Okay. Again, that's a tough driving hole. I hit a great drive right down the heart of the fairway. Played away from that to the back left pin. Hit a 7-iron maybe 18 or 20 feet and just happened to roll that in; so I was really pleased with that birdie. I didn't want to get too aggressive and miss it on the short side. I said: I'll just take a 20-footer. And sometimes you make them, and today they went in. So I was really pleased with that.

TOM SCHERRER: I missed the fairway there to the right. Probably the worst shot I hit all day. Caught a great lie. Hit an opening. Laid up with a 5-iron and hit a middle wedge about 12 feet right behind the hole. So pretty fortunate to get a good lie in the rough after a mediocre drive.

Q. How about coming in, do you have any chances on the last few holes?

TOM SCHERRER: No. I actually made a good up-and-down on No. 9. I just kind of shortsighted myself and it rolled off the green and hit a nice little pitch. It wasn't too hard, but under the circumstances --

Q. Did you get it close?

TOM SCHERRER: Two and a half feet. Close enough where I didn't really have to worry. But if I had that chip shot on Tuesday, I wouldn't think twice. But it's a little hairy needing it to par -- to get a share, so far, of the lead.

Q. Where does this round rank for you?

TOM SCHERRER: Could be my lowest, I think. I hit a 65 -- this could be my lowest. I've had a number of 65s. Yeah, I'm sure this is.

Q. Is it hard for you to try to stay calm out there?

TOM SCHERRER: Not really. You know, that's one of the things I work on is trying to be patient, trying to be relaxed. Not to get too high strung. And a little too aggressive and make kind of a silly bogey. I really tried to walk a little slower and fortunately, it paid off.

Q. Did you realize what you were doing?

TOM SCHERRER: Yeah. I'm one of those guys I look at the leaderboard. My name doesn't get up there enough; so when it does, like to see it every chance I get.

Q. Any feelings about the Ryder Cup and whether or not the players are going to be paid?

TOM SCHERRER: My caddie and I, we had a long talk about that.

Q. When? Today?

TOM SCHERRER: Yeah, today on the course. I just picked up the Golf World. And as far as I know, I'm sure no one would boycott. And I think just the question is how much money does it actually generate. Certainly, it's 10s of millions of dollars. I think that would be a nice reward for the players. A little bonus.

Q. How much?

TOM SCHERRER: Well, certainly not millions. You know, they should get a little piece.

Q. 50, 100?

TOM SCHERRER: Yeah, 50. I think -- it's hard to say. The guys that are making the team don't really need the money too much.

Q. They are talking about giving it to charity anyway?

TOM SCHERRER: Sure. I think that would be great. We all have charities that we support in our hometowns. I could think of a number of charities that I'd like to give a donation to. You know, that's the question. You know, how much do they raise, and I think that would be a nice gesture.

Q. What started the back-and-forth with you and your caddie?

TOM SCHERRER: Just the whole thing. He wanted to know if caddies got paid. And I said, well, if I ever got to the Ryder Cup and I didn't get paid I'm not paying you either.

Q. What is it, 10 percent if you won?

TOM SCHERRER: Exactly.

Q. Who is your caddie?

TOM SCHERRER: Jim Springer.

Q. That's not Mike's brother, too, is it?

TOM SCHERRER: No. No relation. (Laughter.)

Q. He said his twin was caddying for him. So I thought maybe he had another one.

TOM SCHERRER: No relation.

Q. Are the course conditions pretty much the same from beginning to end out there?

TOM SCHERRER: Pretty much. The greens, playing toward the end of the first wave, the greens normally would get a little bumpy, but they were so perfect that I didn't see too much of a difference between my 1st hole and my last, which thankfully -- yeah, the course is perfect. 

Q. What about the heat? Is that much of a factor? Is this heat out of your ordinary for you?

TOM SCHERRER: I live in Orlando now. It was getting pretty hot on my last few holes. Beautiful this morning at 9 o'clock. I think the guys that are fit, are in shape, certainly are going to have an advantage as the week goes on.

Q. It's expected to be pretty much the same all week.

TOM SCHERRER: Is it? Yeah. I guess I didn't play last week, but I guess it was really hot there. So this may feel a little cooler than what the guys had last week.

Q. Is your caddy wearing shorts?

TOM SCHERRER: No. He wore long pants, only because he has like two or three khaki-colored shorts. So he's going to save it for the afternoon time tomorrow.

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT