TEXAS CHRISTIAN UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 5, 2016
Kenny Hill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







TCU - 62, Baylor - 22
Q. Kenny, do you need to practice?
KENNY HILL: Yes.  Absolutely.
(Laughter.)  No, I mean, he did great today.  Like you were saying, with him not practicing, he's still right there in the back behind the quarterbacks whenever we're in practice, and he's getting there every single rep mentally.  I mean he's doing steps, he's doing everything that he needs to do.  So he is still mentally in it, even though he's not physically practicing.  That's how he was able to go out there today and ball like he did.
Q. Could you sense that he had something extra today?
KENNY HILL: Yeah.  Especially like, he dropped that first pass and then he was like, man, I got you the rest of the game.  And man, he took off.  And it was just like the look in his eye, I knew he had it today.
Q. What changed with you this week?  You seemed like a totally different guy out there?
KENNY HILL: I don't know.  Just being confident in myself, and I mean, it was big for me this week just having the confidence of, like, all my teammates.  They were picking me up, man, you're going to do good this week, we trust you, we believe in you.  I mean, that was big for me.  And it just put confidence back in myself.  I just went out there and played.
Q. Coach said he thought you were a little bit nervous early and kind of relaxed and kind of brought it after that.  Anything, any particular play, flip things for you out there?
KENNY HILL: No, not in particular.  It was just kind of I got in the flow of the game, and we were just moving the ball.  That kind of calmed me down.
Q. Does it help you when you break off a big run or make a play with your legs, help you play quarterback?
KENNY HILL: Yes, because I think that it opens some stuff up for us, like, as an offense in general.  We see, like, then we get more like one-on-one coverage and we can hit receivers better where they're worried about me and then Kyle gets a bigger hole.  So I think it just opens stuff up.
Q. How inspiring was it to watch your teammates hold them to two scores in eight first half possessions?
KENNY HILL: Unbelievable.  Unbelievable.  A team like that who can score quick, and I mean can put up points in a hurry, man, they did an unbelievable job.  Unbelievable job.
Q. Is this the game that turns things around for the team the rest of the way?  Is this what the offense was supposed to look like?
KENNY HILL: Yes.  Yes.
Q. They scored so quickly, how important was it for you to come back and score and tie it up; and then talk about your defense and how you kind of had their back today.
KENNY HILL: We knew that we had to get points every single possession, because they can score quick.  We know that our defense is going to be out there a lot of plays with the way they play, so it was big for us just controlling the ball and being able to get points on every possession, that's all we tried to do.
Q. What's it like playing with Turpin again?  He seemed to be fully healthy now.
KENNY HILL: Oh, that kid's unreal.  That kid's something else, man.  I don't even know how he does stuff like that.  Because I sit there and think, I'm like, man, if I did that, I'm going to tear my ACL, like I'm done, there ain't no way.  But he just, I don't know, he just has something extra.  He has it, man.  That's it.
Q. How difficult was it for you not to finish the game last week and have to think about that all week?
KENNY HILL: It was tough, but I understand why it happened.  It woke me up and Foster came in and did a phenomenal job.  He came in and he really had us in the game.  I mean, that's big time for him.  But it did hurt, but the only thing I can do is support him and be there for him and try to help him out on the sideline and do whatever I could, just encourage my teammates.
Q. Did seeing that motivate you for today?
KENNY HILL: I think so.  I just knew I had to come out here and play my game and play the way I could just to give us a chance to win and we got it done.
Q. You said last week it woke you up.  What did you spend time thinking about?
KENNY HILL: Oh, man, I can't do this all over again.  It was just like, man, this is Texas A & M all over again.  But then I come in Sunday and coach sat me down and talked to me and told me, man, we have faith in you, we just need you to go out there and be the same Kenny you were in the Arkansas game, the Oklahoma game, have that fire and that drive and the teammates, your teammates will respond.  And that's all I was thinking about was coming out here and just playing the best I could.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT