AMERICAN CENTURY CELEBRITY GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2002
Jason Kidd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  How do you think this weather is going to affect things?
JASON KIDD:   It could help my game. 

Q.  Just by not being out there? 
JASON KIDD:   It's just fun being out there.  You know, the game of golf, the elements, the wind, the rain, when it's perfect conditions, you don't have anything to blame it on. 
You know, it might be a little wet out there, but hopefully that could help my game. 

Q.  Who do you like so far this year?  Do you see anybody out there playing well, going back to previous years, who do you think has got the inside track this year? 
JASON KIDD:   Well, I think Rhoden.  I think he's won at every  -- is he even or odd?  Odd until last year.  So I think he's going to start something new and go even. 
But there's a lot of talented guys.  Del Greco, Quinn defending his title.  You can't count out the previous winner.  I think those three guys are probably always the favorite, so you can't go wrong with picking one of those guys.

Q.  Have you had a chance to meet any firefighters who were out here yet?
JASON KIDD:   I haven't.  I think I'm playing with one tomorrow, so I look forward to doing that. 
I think what our country has gone through in the past year, I think it's an honor to be able to play with a real hero, a real celebrity.  So play with the firefighters is something that is well deserved, and hopefully we're going to have some fun. 

Q.  You're good friend with Mike Bibby.  He credits you in a lot of ways with giving him golf tips and getting him out on the golf course.  What kind of tips have you been giving him?  He's been nervous out there on the range and he didn't want anybody seeing him swing.  What do you make of thinks game?
JASON KIDD:   Well, this is his first time.  This is a great element.  This is a lot different than shooting a free throw.  He loves a pressure situation, so he'll handle that fine.  But this will be a little different.  This has a club and not a basketball.  The ball is a little bit smaller but he'll be fine.  He'll shoot 120 and he'll set his goals a little bit higher next year.

Q.  Is he going to break your record?
JASON KIDD:   Well, my record has been broken.  That's by his teammate.  Chris has his record, so he's probably talked Michael into coming up here telling him how easy it is so he can have his record broken.

Q.  How tough of a course is this for a first-time player?  You've been here before and this is a tough course.
JASON KIDD:   It is.  This is a very tough course, first time going out the chute, especially with the distance.  But sometimes that can be a benefit, not knowing where the danger is, just hit it straight.  And we won't probably be playing this afternoon. 

Q.  How many times have you played in the tournament?
JASON KIDD:   Five years. 

Q.  What do you think about coming back?
JASON KIDD:   I think the first tee.  That's the hardest shot in golf.  After your name is announced, high expectations jump, especially not being in that situation, now knowing what to expect, I just try to relax and let it go. 

Q.  You are listed as a 7.9 handicap.  I assume your game has come along ways since the first time here?
JASON KIDD:   Somebody's lying.  Somebody messed up.

Q.  Who would be that somebody?
JASON KIDD:   I don't know.  I've gotta go find out who put that in.

Q.  What's more accurate?
JASON KIDD:   What's more accurate?  I'll take 18. 
No, I don't know.  What do you think?  (Looking at caddie) -- 11 is accurate. 

Q.  That's pretty close to 7.9 and quite a bit better than the first year you were out here, maybe the first couple of years?
JASON KIDD:   Oh, yeah.  Night and day. 

Q.  How did you get to the point where you're at now?
JASON KIDD:   Well, I think my golf coach, Denny, at Whisper Rock, he's been patient with me.  He's helped me a lot, so hopefully good or bad, he's going to take  -- it should be good.  He helped me a lot this past year, so just working with good people.  He's a great teacher, and besides that, he's a great player.  So playing with good people always helps get your game better too.

Q.  Who is this? 
JASON KIDD:   Denny Pelle out of Whisper Rock in Scottsdale.
And then my caddie, too, can't forget him, Louis.  He knows my game, so he keeps me under control. 

Q.  What are you aiming to shoot out there this week? 
JASON KIDD:   Have fun, but break 80.  That's our goal this week.  Break 80.

Q.  What's your best round? 
JASON KIDD:   77.  But I have potential to do a lot better, if I can make some putts. 

Q.  Last time you were up here was kind of a rough time, you had just gone through all of attention  can you talk about the year you've had, starting from that, leading New Jersey to a place had it not been; it's been a pretty crazy year for you, I think? 
JASON KIDD:   I don't think it's been crazy.  I think it's been a learning experience in the sense of understanding that things are not always as bad as they look or seem.  So, you know, you've got to play out the cards that you're dealt, because you never know what you're holding. 
And to be dealt to New Jersey, it was easy to go the other way.  The hard part was to stay positive, and help your teammates believe that they could be winners, that was the fun part.  You know, good things happen to good people and I was just very fortunate to be at the right place at the right time. 

Q.  Does it seem like it's only been about two months ago since you were here last?
JASON KIDD:   These days, it flies by.  It just seemed like a couple months that we were right here doing the interview for New Jersey television with the trade and everything. 
Time goes by, and you just try to enjoy each day. 

Q.  For you guys and Sacramento, teams that took big steps last year, what's the hardest part about entering next season?
JASON KIDD:   Well, I think setting realistic goals.  The first thing you're going to say is that you want to get back to the Finals, but we all know that, that's the goal.  But the thing is, to get better each game. 
The big thing that we're going to try to accomplish is gaining that swagger, that Lakers swagger.  When you gain that championship-type swagger, you can win a lot of games that you're not supposed to win.  That's the one thing that hopefully we can work on this year. 
That comes just from playing, being together, keeping the team together.  We were only together for less than a year and look what happened.  So there's going to be a lot of high expectations for us, but we have to understand what our goal is, and not to look focus of that. 

Q.  How much did it bother you, maybe even a little bit, that you were not an MVP last year? 
JASON KIDD:   I think it was a disappointment, I thought I had a pretty good season.  But I would take the trade of being in the Finals than having the MVP trophy.  The opportunity to have the big ring, I would take that any day of the week. 
The other thing, there's a lot of talented players.  Tim Duncan had a great season.  You can't take that away from him.  Look at Shaq, he's the most dominant player on this planet.  To be mentioned with those guys, I'll take that and I'll be very happy to be mentioned with those type of guys.

Q.  Looking a year ahead, next year's free agency is probably one of the biggest classes of all time, is that on your mind?  Is it hard not to think about it, Tim Duncan, the possibility of a couple of you guys coming together?
JASON KIDD:   Well, it's going to be an every day question, which is unfortunate.  I mean, it is going to be probably one of the best classes as a free agent market.  Somebody is going to be happy, somebody is going to be upset, in the sense of teams.  But I'm just going to play this year out.  I can't look no farther than this upcoming season, because if you start to look head, things don't tend to work out the way you want them. 
So I'm just going to take my time and enjoy the season and hope to get the Nets back to the Championship. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT