SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 26, 2012
Joe Daley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You had a pretty solid round today, 5‑under.   Coming out of a few pretty basic rounds, nothing exceptional the last two days, do you want to talk about today's round?
JOE DALEY:   Yeah, I'm just really playing this golf course one shot at a time.   The wind's been different every day and I'm trying to pick the right club and then commit to it and then execute the shot. 
Today it seemed like at least for me more pins were more accessible, although I didn't judge some wedges early as well as I could have, but I just kept plugging along and moving on to the next one.   That is all I did.

Q.   Any key adjustments made today that made you feel like you shot better?
JOE DALEY:   The one thing I did, I brought my caddie in to help me read the greens because the first couple days I was over reading them, under reading them.   And I did better today, just to confirm that I'm seeing what I'm seeing or it's breaking a little more or less because these greens are extremely demanding.

Q.   I see you actually birdied three holes in a row those being 7, 8 and 9.   7's the No. 1 handicap hole.   What was your approach for that?
JOE DALEY:   I hit a 3‑wood off the tee and I had 125 to the pin, wind was a little out of the right and I just committed and hit it left of the pin.   And hit a good solid wedge left of the pin about 14 feet and we read it right and I made it. 
I hit a good solid wedge on the next hole, I had a 6‑footer, made that. 
Then on the last hole, I actually laid up, hit a really good drive, hit 5‑iron, laid up and then gap wedge.   But then I spun it off the hill and it was the longest putt I've made so far since I've been here in three days.   So it was fun.   It was a 40‑footer.

Q.   How do you feel going into Sunday?
JOE DALEY:   Oh, man, I'm just happy to be here.   This is a great thing.   This is superb.   I mean I can't say anymore about it.   What they have done with this place is unbelievable.   The obstacles that they had to go through to get what they have now, it's unbelievable.   It's a great improvement for the city.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT