U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2020
September 18, 2020
Connor Syme
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Was it as tough as you anticipated, or was it tougher?
 CONNOR SYME:   I think it was as tough as I expected.  I just didn't drive it anywhere near well enough yesterday, and then today I actually played well, but I actually putted really, really poor for two days.  I don't think I made one putt outside five feet really.  So that was my weakness for sure.
 On a couple of days where you're going to be out of position a few times, you're going to have to make some putts, and I literally didn't hole anything.  So I'll kind of go away and work on that.  Really that's my take away from the last few days.
 Obviously, the greens are a lot more challenging than probably we play back home.  Something to learn from definitely.  That's something I try to do all the time.  If I don't play well, it's something to learn and try to get better the next time.
 Q. How much tougher was the setup today compared to yesterday?
 CONNOR SYME:   Definitely played tougher.  I actually played a lot better today.  I drove it nice.  Again, just couldn't buy a putt really.  That's kind of the story of the two days.
 But, yeah, played a lot better today for the same score.  That's probably an indication to how much harder it will be today.  I can't imagine there will be too many low scores.  I think there could be a 3 under round, which is an absolutely great score.  No, a tough couple of days, but great learning experiences for sure.
 Q. If you could just tell me about your upcoming schedule.  Any major championships coming up?
 CONNOR SYME:   I'm going to be heading home now and back to Europe.  Go to the Irish Open next week, and then hopefully the Scottish Open after that.  There's a few big events happening in Europe and then kind of leading into the end of the season really, there's a big kind of stretch of events.  So that's the next few.  Just knuckle down and start again next week.
 Q. Quite a tough schedule.
 CONNOR SYME:   It's nonstop.  We've obviously had a lot of time off, so it's great to have a few opportunities to play.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT