U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2017
Connor Syme
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Connor, thanks for joining us.  We have Connor Syme, a 2 and winner over Maverick McNealy in the first round of the match play of the U.S. Amateur.
We talked briefly.  You got quite the assignment in the first.  But you were able to defeat a player who is highly ranked.  That's got to say a lot about your game.
CONNOR SYME: Yeah, I played him very, very solid today from tee-to-green.  Obviously known Maverick from previous results in amateur golf.  He's been right at the top of the rankings for the last kind of three, four years probably.  Obviously got massive respect for his game, and as a person he's such a nice guy.
Yeah, just have to get down to business.  I played very, very solid and tried not to give him much.  I always thought was going to come back at me, which he did.  He never gave my anything on the back nine.  Even when he made bogey on 16, I still had to massively work for it, even though it was like a 25-footer uphill with the slope.
So yeah, it was obviously a very difficult match, but I'm absolutely delighted to get through to the next round.
THE MODERATOR: That's not to say that you're not a great player, because you're in the top 15 in the world rankings as well.  People should know that about you as well.
There was a point in the match where you were 3-up and he made a run at you and got it to 1-up.  Tell us about that stretch.
CONNOR SYME: Yeah, so I had a couple bogeys unfortunately.  I had two really good shots into 13; really tough around the corner.  Just came up a little shy on me.
Probably my only mistake today when I tried to hole that putt up and over a slope because I fancied Maverick was going to hole his putt.
I ran it to maybe six, seven foot past.  That's why I ended up going past the hole.  I didn't think I was that aggressive with it, but it kind of ran away from me.  Maverick actually had a really difficult putt up and down, and I ended up missing the one coming back.
Went back to 2 there, which was probably a little bit of a gift.  Had a really good shot in the next that just went long and didn't quite get up and down.
Yeah, back to 1 with four to go.  It was obviously not quite the position I wanted to be after being 3-up.  But I composed myself well, played the next nicely, and (indiscernible) dumped in the middle of the green to get back 2-up, and then obviously made a really good putt on 17.
I'm delighted the way I played the last three definitely, and for the most part the whole round.
THE MODERATOR: Questions?
Q. Key to playing well on this course?  What are the particular challenges?
CONNOR SYME: It's probably one the best courses I've ever played, to be honest with you.  It challenges you off the tee mostly.  I would say it requires you have a lot of different shots.  If you're notoriously a drawer of the ball you're going to struggle on some holes.  You need to shape it both way.
In this format, obviously match play you have to win some holes.  That's definitely the key probably, driving.  The greens are very difficult.  You plot your way -- that's definitely -- strategy is the most important.  Get it off the tee and get on the right side of the holes, because you can get in some horrible positions.
Keep it on the right side of the hole and get it off the tee is the key.
Q. You play pretty aggressively.  I saw you tee off with a driver.  Going right after it.  Did you know right away you were going to hit driver there, or were you thinking about...
CONNOR SYME: Yeah, I've got a couple plans on that hole.  It probably depends on where the pin is what I would hit.  I actually probably felt it would be a more difficult wedge shot if I laid up than it would be hitting driver and going long left.
Obviously it worked out perfect today.  I cut it, which I was trying to do, and it landed softly on the front of the green.  Even if it did roll over the back I feel like I would always have a pitch onto the green.
Maverick hit 3-wood there.  He caught a little bit of a bad lie, but, again, (indiscernible)...
Whereas I feel like if you do lay up you can get yourself in a bit of a bother.
Depending where the pin is.  That was definitely luck for that front left pin, yeah.
Q. I think you were 1 at the time, maybe 2-up.
CONNOR SYME: Yeah, so that was a big moment.  I found the fairway.  Not the longest should I say off the tee, but I had an unbelievable 3-wood onto the green and made birdie there.  Yeah, kind of controlled the match there for a few holes certainly.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT