ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 13, 2018
Connor Syme
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How are you feeling right now?
CONNOR SYME: Ecstatic.  It was a special round.  I'm absolutely over the moon.
Q. Great to get off to a fast start?
CONNOR SYME: I think the big thing was certainly being 4-under through six, that's where you've got to make your score.  I knew that to make the cut, I would have had to get off to a fast start.
I started with three birdies, which was great, and yeah, got another one on 5, I think, and then you know, kind of hanging on, 7 is a really tough hole, gave myself a look for birdie and birdied 8 and 9.  My first 29, which was nice.  Yeah, just carried on very solid back nine.
Q. Was a bit of a slow start for you yesterday.  Were you conscious that you'd need a good score to make sure you're here for the weekend?
CONNOR SYME: I knew 65 was the minimum requirement today after 71 yesterday, with the scoring being so good.  Obviously happy with a fast start, put me right away on the cut line, projecting the cut, you know it's going to be lower than that.  I got myself out of that little pack, which is obviously going to be the main target and then I could kind of free wheel from there.
Q. How do you find the difference between the nines?  Seems tougher when you get to the back nine?
CONNOR SYME: Yeah, you've got to make your score on the front nine, definitely.  The first, depends on your tee shot.  You can give yourself a good look for birdie.  There's a few good looks through 5, 6, 2, 3, 4 is a tough hole but you really need to start off well.  If you're level par for them holes, you know you're behind, definitely.  I think getting a few under par definitely relaxes you for the next tough stretch of holes.
Q. A spot at Carnoustie up for grabs.  Is that in the back of your mind after today?
CONNOR SYME: It would obviously be a dream come true to play Carnoustie, being so close to home but definitely is in the back of the mind for now.  It was obviously a goal at the start of the week was to give myself a chance to do it and after today I somewhat have.  Positive through 36 holes but a long way to go.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT