U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2017
Connor Syme
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Pleased to have Connor Syme, who advanced to the quarterfinals of the U.S. Am, but lost in a great match to Doug Ghim 2 and 1.   
It was fun to watch on TV.  I was not there.  Give us a little assessment on your part of the match.   
CONNOR SYME: Yeah, I just didn't quite have my best stuff today.  I was grinding away as much as I could.  I felt like I still drove it quite well, but didn't quite have my best golf to put so much pressure on Doug today.   
Yeah, key moment was probably on 16 where I made a really good up and down from front right after getting up and down on 14 as well.  Caught a bit of a bad lie; (indiscernible) kind of behind my ball in the bunker and ut threw me off.  Made a rash decision, I guess, out there a little bit.   
Ended up hitting it over the green, which was a poor shot from where it was and made double bogey.  Was a crucial moment in the match, so looking back on it, that was the moment.   
The wind was swelling quite a lot on the tee and was in between clubs and chose the shot and hit it too hard and came out of it a little bit.   
He did give me on opening, but to make double was too much there.  Left me too much to do with 2-down, two left to play.   
THE MODERATOR: As a competitor it's probably too early after the match to say this was a good U.S. Amateur for you, but what you do you think about that statement?   
CONNOR SYME: Yeah, any time you get to the quarterfinals in a field like this it's going to be a good week.  Like you said, it's just a little early just now, so it's obviously very sore because I was looking to win.   
Obviously was a good championship, but obviously disappointed to lose today.   
 Q.  No. 8 it looked like you got a terrific break with a decent lie.  Was it in the hazard, the tee shot?  
CONNOR SYME: Yes.   
 Q.  That's sort of the magic of the match play, isn't it?  You're in the hazard; Doug hit this great tee shot to the back of the green.  You end up halving the hole.  Did you figure you had a really good shot on that pitch shot, that you had a good shot at getting it close?  
CONNOR SYME: No.  I mean, I ran up and had a look at it.  I mean, I obviously had that uphill because it was my only chance.  I had no idea how specifically it would go through the grass.  It was quite -- high but not that thick.   
I did chip it to where I wanted to perfect and it rolled up the hill, but I don't know if I went back I could have got it as close.   
 Q.  You made several mid-range putts to stay in holes I think today.  Maybe one to win a hole or something; Doug really didn't make lot of putts that I remember.  Did you ever feel like there was a point where you could -- I don't think you ever took a lead in the match, did you?  
CONNOR SYME: No, no.   
 Q.  Was there a point where you felt you might and just didn't execute it?  
CONNOR SYME: Yeah, I mean, it was kind of the case -- I'll go back to 16, but even 10 was an opportunity for me.  You know, he had a very awkward up and down when he ended up on 9; that's why I went left, to try and give myself as chance a little par, I suppose.   
I so I got back to all square.  Felt like I had a good tee shot on 10, but looking back it probably was today, because it did land the way I thought it would, but it's just obviously running much faster than it was in the practice round and ended up a little too far past and it was a very awkward shot.   
My play down there was to miss it left, and if I didn't catch a lie I would chip it on and I would two-putt for par.  In this case where Doug had hit it to it looked like it was going to be birdie, so I didn't have to take on the shot.   
I kind of felt like I gave him that hole after getting something back.  Then almost felt like a -- I felt like I still had the momentum going to the 15th tee and just a couple things where I got back into the match and I didn't quite capitalize on.   
Yeah, I mean, there were chances.  Again, I just didn't quite have my best today.   
 Q.  He didn't really appear at his best either.  He had a lot of iron shots that he normally hits better.  Hit some bad chips and such.  Seemed like a match where both of you were in a position to maybe establish some control at some point, and neither one of you could really pull away at all.  Was that the feeling throughout?  
CONNOR SYME: Yeah, I guess.  Like I said, there was definitely opportunities and we both made mistakes.  Like you said, we both definitely didn't have our best golf.  It was tough out there.  It was very, very windy.  You were always have to change shots.  I just couldn't get my rhythm.   
Felt like I was always in between clubs and never had a shot where I felt like, Oh, this is a perfect number.  So that was difficult as well, to try and trust your shots.  I don't know how he felt that was, but, yeah, there was definitely opportunities, but, yeah, I just didn't take my chances when I had them.   
 Q.  One more.  Are you looking forward to playing in the Walker Cup?  
CONNOR SYME: I would love it very much.  I'm sure he'll get picked, and hopefully I do as well and we can have another go at it.  I know Maverick already mentioned he wanted a rematch with me as well, so hopefully I get the chance.   
He's a really good guy.  Hope he goes onto do well in the Championship.  Yes, still a little sore just now with the defeat.   
 Q.  I was just going through your ranking; quite impressive places that you have been to, winning the Australian Amateur to South Africa to a lot of places.  I was just curious to see, U.S. doesn't have a national team squad that allows players to travel.  Would you just talk about how the Scottish Golf Federation, union, how much that helped you to get where you are?  
CONNOR SYME: Yeah, I mean, without the support of Scottish golf I definitely wouldn't have the opportunities that we do.  Aberdeen Asset Management is a big supporter -- as you can see on my sleeve here.  They're a massive supporter of Scottish golf and it definitely gives us a lot of opportunities to travel and compete.   
You know, a little bit like amateurs, it's like a touring schedule, and the professional would perhaps tour the way we do.  (Indiscernible) support Scottish golf, and that probably says how highly I think of the program we have back in Scotland.  It's excellent.  It really is.   
 Q.  Do they still support you after, like a young tour program or...  
CONNOR SYME: Yeah, I'm not too sure.  I know there is definitely an am-to-pro program that they started in the last few years.  A couple of my teammates from last year have certainly started on it.  I'm not entirely sure, but they do support you.  Obviously love to be cut in on that if I become professional.   
 Q.  Speaking of support in Scotland, did you get any messages or any texts or phone calls from folks we might recognize that said, Hey, keep it going?  Let's get it done?  
CONNOR SYME: Yeah, I mean, my family were up to see the finishing of it.  There were so many matches last night.  Obviously it was a dramatic finish last night, so there was a lot of excitement around that.   
Yeah, it was cool to have all that.  Would obviously love to have gone further, but it was definitely cool to have all that.  That's what you play and practice for, moments like that.  It was awesome.   
Yeah.  It's cool when you get all that support and they're all behind you.   
THE MODERATOR: Congratulations on a great run.   
CONNOR SYME: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT