U.S. OPEN
August 31, 1994
Meredith McGrath
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You had your chances to -- why couldn't you? 
 
 MEREDITH McGRATH: Well, I mean, Gabriela is a good player. She put a lot of pressure on
me. I didn't feel like I played as well as I could. I didn't feel I served particularly
well and I gave her an opportunity to put some pressure on me on my second serve and, you
know, in the third we had some close games, I ended up losing them. Maybe if I could have
won the first or second game there that it would have been a little bit closer.  
 
Q. You served that second set twice, I think? 
 
 MEREDITH McGRATH: Three times.  
 
Q. Then it got away. You won the tiebreaker. What are you thinking going into the third
set? 
 
 MEREDITH McGRATH: Well, I mean, I just really wanted to work hard to try to hold my
serve. I mean, neither one of us were exactly winning our serves that often. It was almost
easier for me to break serve than to hold as it was for her. On the third set, I just
wanted to try to keep the momentum going a little bit that I had gathered. It would have
gone a lot better if I would have gone to the third set after winning 6-2 and instead of
letting it slide and winning it 7-6, that is the way it happened.  
 
Q. The way she is playing now, do you think she can win at all? 
 
 MEREDITH McGRATH: I think that there is some people out there who will give her a lot
of problems. I think she is playing well, but she sometimes is a little bit difficult for
me, in particular, to play, whereas maybe somebody like Steffi handles her a little bit
better.  
 
Q. What makes it difficult? What makes her difficult? 
 
 MEREDITH McGRATH: Just the way she -- she doesn't have a lot of pace on her balls. She
is really loopy and slice -- and she just kind of yanks you around the court until --
maybe then she will hit a big shot to finish the point, but she is difficult in that
respect, I guess.  
 
Q. Were you surprised that she was coming in off your second serve so much, you took it
a lot and came to the net? 
 
 MEREDITH McGRATH: I wasn't surprised. I had played her at Wimbledon this year also and
she did the exact same thing. The same thing happened in that match, I didn't get enough
first serves in. I gave her an opportunity to come in on my second serve. She can do that
well. She likes to do that.  
 
Q. What do you think it is going to take for you to breakthrough to the next level to
get to the quarters or the semis in singles? 
 
 MEREDITH McGRATH: A lot of hard work.  
 
Q. Anything in particular about your game in terms of what you are working on? 
 
 MEREDITH McGRATH: I am a little bit erratic. One day I can be volleying great but I am
not hitting my groundstrokes well, or vice versa. I mean, it is -- always something is a
little bit off and I just need to work on my consistency as well as just simply improving
in all those areas.  
 
Q. Maintaining your concentration for longer periods of time against these top
competitors? 
 
 MEREDITH McGRATH: That would probably help.  
 
Q. Great to watch you great match. 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT