GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 1996
Cristiano Caratti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How were the conditions, hotter than before?

CRISTIANO CARATTI: Well, almost every day the same. It is very hot. The problem maybe
is that I play qualification and I have three matches more than him. Anyway, I think I
tried to do my best and it is difficult in these kind of conditions.

Q. What was the difference? You were behind in the third set. What made the difference?

CRISTIANO CARATTI: Until that moment I was feeling tired, but then I just was thinking,
okay, that is it, I am just trying to play my best and tried to keep working on the return
and the serve, that is it. I was feeling better at the end. But, you know, it is up and
down. It can happen that you feel good and after two, three games, you feel very bad,
because it is very, very hot and humid.

Q. Did you sense anything in Edberg at that point?

CRISTIANO CARATTI: No, I didn't see him -- I didn't know if he was more tired than me.
I was just thinking about trying to push and trying to take it all for my best. I am sure
that he was tired because everybody gets tired with this weather.

Q. The crowd obviously was pulling for Edberg just because he has done very well here
and this being his last year --

CRISTIANO CARATTI: They know more him than me, I suppose. It is okay. The crowd was
good. It is normal that this happen and -- I am happy about that.

Q. When the weather is like this do you try to conserve your energy for certain games,
certain points?

CRISTIANO CARATTI: No, you just try to hit well. You just try to drink a lot before the
match and drink during the match; take some minerals, but when you are out there you have
to play every point because it is very tough and very competitive, the match, now, against
everybody, so you cannot just save the energy for some points or some of the others.

Q. Have you been in that position before where the crowd is pulling for one guy?

CRISTIANO CARATTI: Yes. I was already in that kind of position. I played two times
against Connors, so that is the worst thing you can have happen to you. So, no, it is
okay. I mean, I like the way that the American people support some players, like Connors
or some other guys like Stefan today. It is bad when they start to say to you something
bad, but this never happens in the States, so it is good. 

Q. Does that spur you on a little bit when the crowd starts cheering for the other guy?

CRISTIANO CARATTI: No. No. I never think about that. It is -- I was just trying to
concentrate on the game. It is already very difficult to concentrate with this heat and
against Stefan Edberg so if you already think about how the game is going, you don't think
anymore about the people.

Q. Do you think, boy, I'd rather be in a swimming pool on a day like this (inaudible)?

CRISTIANO CARATTI: Sometimes, yes. During the match was one of the things I think most.

Q. Which?

CRISTIANO CARATTI: Stay in the swimming pool, maybe just relax with a Coke, cold Coke.
But that is what I like to do. I like to compete and sometimes it happens that you have to
play with these conditions.

Q. (Inaudible.)

CRISTIANO CARATTI: Well, it is difficult. You start with Washington. This year was
okay, Washington, but normally the hottest tournament during the year, so you have to be
in good shape and to be prepared to play all the summer in the States. Almost everywhere
the summer is hot. Sometimes it gets very hot in the Australian Open, but I think the
toughest here is in the States because every week is very tough.

Q. You do get to the point, don't you, where you will see a ball that maybe you could
get to if it was a little cooler, but it is hot and you are just saying I am not going for
that one?

CRISTIANO CARATTI: Yes. Sometimes happen. But you just got to try to do your best.
Nothing you can do. You have to know that sometimes some balls you can't catch it because
it is too hot.

Q. You can catch it, but maybe it will be too much work?

CRISTIANO CARATTI: That is right. So you just have to know that before you get in on
the court because if you try to push you harder and harder, and you try to think negative
and say, okay, I can't get it and why I didn't get it, it is going to be tough because you
put too much pressure on you. You just have to know that it happens, that sometimes the
balls are easy, but you made some mistakes because it is too hot.

Q. Are there players in your mind who gain an advantage under these conditions?

CRISTIANO CARATTI: Well, I think that players that are playing more with the physical
power, you know, like Thomas Muster, that like to play a lot. He likes to play a lot. I
think he likes to play with these conditions because he makes you run a lot of times
before to win a point. So a kind of player like him can get good chance with these
conditions. It is tough for them too, but about the game, the game is better for them.

Q. How is it for you?

CRISTIANO CARATTI: I like these kind of conditions, but if it's if it's cold sometimes
it is better.

Q. How much confidence do you have now from the Rosset and Edberg win?

CRISTIANO CARATTI: Well, it is very good to beat a player like Stefan in a --
tournament in a big tournament like this one. I already beat some other players with a
good ranking, so I don't think -- I am confident. I am happy about that, but I am trying
to get concentrate on the game; not on the guy that you beat because when I play
qualification I was down 6-1, 5-All, 15-40 and in the last round. I think now everybody
play very good, so you just have to be focused and try to play your game. Sometimes it is
good. Sometimes it is bad. That is the way.

Q. What about Chang tomorrow?

CRISTIANO CARATTI: He is going to be tough. I don't want to think about that now. I
think I am too tired.

Q. Next couple of weeks heading up toward the U.S. Open?

CRISTIANO CARATTI: What, sorry?

Q. Your schedule?

CRISTIANO CARATTI: Yes, I am going to play Indianapolis and then I think I am in
qualification at the U.S. Open, so I don't think I can play Long Island because the week
of Long Island, the qualification starts in U.S. Open. For tomorrow's match, Chang is
going to be one of the players that likes maybe the heat because he makes you play a lot
of balls, so we will see. It is going to be a tough match, for sure.

Q. This might be strange, but is there a part of you that makes you feel booed that you
have ended Stefan's run here?

CRISTIANO CARATTI: Well, that that is the way of the game. When we get in on the court
we were me and him and we try both we try to beat the other one. I think he was one of the
best competitors in tennis, ever, so I don't think that if he lose against me something
going to change for him. So he knows that when he gets on the court and he tries to play
against everybody, he can win and he can lose. That is the game.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT