INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
September 16, 2020
Lorenzo Musetti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








L. MUSETTI/S. Wawrinka
6-0, 7-6
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. I would like to know the meaning of the victory.  Of course you are playing against a Grand Slam champion.  And also, the meaning of the Foro Italico.  What do you remember about the Foro when you were child?
LORENZO MUSETTI:   Yeah, I mean, I didn't expect this win, but I think I deserve it because I played really good tennis and I enjoyed all the points of this match.
Yeah, when I was young I used to come to see, like, champions like Rafa, Federer, like Wawrinka.  Also with my family and my friends here.
So I think it's a dream that comes true, and, I mean, I'm still not believing on what I did tonight, so I just accept that and let's see in the next days (smiling).
Q. A lot of people, a lot of teenagers playing someone like Stan at such a big event would be nervous.  But you didn't look nervous at all.  You were playing your game.  How did you sort of approach it?  How did you stay calm even as he came back?
LORENZO MUSETTI:   Yeah, we worked a lot this month.  I think I did one step of like maturation of my game and my mentality.
I just like focus on the game and, I mean, I was one set up and with a break, and he try to play better.  He was serving better at the end.
So I just like trying to keep my serve, and then at the tiebreak I was really brave and, I mean, I enjoyed a lot play in this beautiful stadium.  So nothing.  I'm really calm, like I don't know why, but I was calm also before the match.  I think that's the key of my victory.
Q. You became the first player born in 2002 to win an ATP Tour match.  Is this anything you take a note of or are not interested in these kind of stats?
LORENZO MUSETTI:   No, I mean, I didn't think about it.  Like I said before, I'm not like I'm complain this victory.  I don't know how many points I got, how many money and nothing.
I just enjoy the match, and I had a lot of fun tonight and hope to keep the process and trust the process of my career and try to play better every point every day.  I think that's my goal of the moment.
Q. Stan has one of the best backhands that we have seen in our game for a long time.  I just wanted to ask how it felt to be playing him and trading backhands?  What can you say about your backhand as far as how much you're pleased with the way you were using it tonight?
LORENZO MUSETTI:   Yeah, Stan has incredible backhand, incredible serve, a lot of power.  So I think I just like manage, like, my weapons the best tonight.
Yeah, at the end was incredible.  First set was almost perfect.  Second set he tried, like I said before, he tried to play better.  He was focused on the match and he wanted to win the set, but I served really good.  I mixed a lot with the wide serve, T, and body serve.  So I think the serve was the key to have the lead of the game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT