AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2019
Lorenzo Musetti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
L. MUSETTI/E. Nava   
4-6, 6-2, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What were you thinking in that tiebreak?  
LORENZO MUSETTI: I was not thinking.  I was just playing.  Like living every point.  Yeah, it was a fantastic tiebreak.  Also, Emilio played really good and he saved, like, three match points.   
Yeah, it was a fantastic tiebreak.  Match point, it was, like, unbelievable.   
 Q.  Coming in as a top seed, was there pressure on you from the beginning, and how do you feel you dealt with that pressure here in Melbourne?  
LORENZO MUSETTI: Yeah, I had a lot of pressure since the first rounds, but I got a lot of experience last year in New York.   
So I knew how to manage the pressure and the feelings of the final.  Today was, like, crazy match.  First set was really tough.  Second set was really good.   
He went down a little bit, but third set was really a fight, and I'm very happy to win my first slam.   
 Q.  You had a couple of words with Novak as you were passing each other in the tunnel on the way out.  What did he say to you?  
LORENZO MUSETTI: He just said, Congratulations.  He knew that I lost in the final in New York, so he told me, You have a good mental trainer.   
I just said, I learned from you.  I gave him, like, a good luck for the final and just these words was I really enjoy from Novak.   
 Q.  First time playing against Emilio.  What was your impression of his game?  
LORENZO MUSETTI: Yeah, I knew that was a tough opponent.  Yeah, he played good.  He played, like, every ball, every point.  So was really tough to beat him, and I did it.  So I'm very happy of this.   
 Q.  Your one-handed backhand, it's a very attractive and effective shot.  Was there an inspiration for that?  Was that something that just came up naturally the way you were coached?  
LORENZO MUSETTI: No, my backhand sometimes can be really good and sometimes can be too defensive with the backspin.  It was not easy today, because on Rod Laver, it is a big stadium, you stay like far from the line.  So this was the only thing that I haven't like that, so I'm very happy with this, because the strategy of the match was to don't go too far from the line, because Emilio plays really aggressive.  Yeah, I did it, and I'm very happy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT