THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2018
Maria Torres
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Can you tell us just about how your round started today.  I think it was maybe raining at the beginning.  
MARIA TORRES: Yeah, it was kind of raining, but everybody was playing in that condition so that's nothing to say.   
But started bogey-bogey.  Not the best start that you wanted, but I don't know, just keep playing golf and kind of started to roll again.   
 Q.  How were you able to bounce back from that?  
MARIA TORRES: Because yesterday I had kind of the same period, so kind of helped to remind me that I could go back.  Just have to relax and give me opportunities.   
 Q.  Did you feel any nerves in morning sleeping on a lead?  
MARIA TORRES: I have to say a little bit.  It's something new and it's exciting.  After that, just go out there and just play golf.  That's the only thing I can do.   
 Q.  At what point did you get over the nerves and decide to play golf?  First shot?  First hole?  When did it happen?  
MARIA TORRES: After the two bogeys I'm like, You should start playing right now.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  What was your highlight from today?  
MARIA TORRES: That's a good -- I think saving some pars that were kind of like...   
Yeah, I think that was one of the keys.  And just staying positive and continue working.   
 Q.  What did your family tell you yesterday?  Did you hear from them?  
MARIA TORRES: I talked to them, but nothing.  They were like, Okay, good round.  You have three more rounds, so you have to keep playing golf and try to give -- they were really telling me about giving me opportunities, that I believe in.   
So, yeah, that's something that I want to continue on.  We'll see how it goes.   
 Q.  How old are you?  What's your hometown?  
MARIA TORRES: I'm 23 years old and, and San Juan Puerto Rico.   
 Q.  How old were you when you started golf and what got you into golf?  
MARIA TORRES: Oh, I was seven and a half or eight.  I used to ride horses and there was a range like driving to my house, and I my dad asked me if I wanted to take classes.  I started taking classes.   
It's not really like a story you go, Oh, that's amazing story.  It's really like...   
 Q.  Did your parents play?  Did your dad play?  
MARIA TORRES: No, nobody in my family plays golf.   
 Q.  Did you get lessons at the beginning?  
MARIA TORRES: Yeah, lessons, and I left riding horses and I just started playing golf.   
 Q.  What's golf like in Puerto Rico?  
MARIA TORRES: I think there is a lot of people playing for being such a small island, and hopefully it continues to grow.   
 Q.  What's where you home club?  
MARIA TORRES: Oh, I train in like three or four different courses.  El Legado, Bahía Beach, Palmas Del Mar, Coco Beach.   
Yeah, several courses.   
 Q.  Sounds nice.  (Indiscernible.)  
MARIA TORRES: Oh, when I wanted to?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
MARIA TORRES: It seems little.  Starting to practice you always dream to play professional.   
 Q.  Who was your idol, golfing hero?  
MARIA TORRES: Tiger.  I'm a Tiger fan.   
 Q.  You went to the University of the Florida.  Were you heavily recruited?  Were there other programs that really wanted you?  
MARIA TORRES: There were other universities, use the but I think I always wanted to be a Gator.  Go Gators.   
 Q.  You had another good round today.  I have to ask you, obviously first time leading a tournament, a major championship.  How did you feel this morning walking up to the tee box?  
MARIA TORRES: It was a little bit nerve wracking, I'm not going to deny that.  I don't know.  Just trying to play golf and give me opportunities.   
 Q.  You started bogey-bogey.  Maybe a little bit of nerves there.  How did you then end up backing yourself up and calming the nerves and moving forward to making a couple birdies later on?  
MARIA TORRES: Yesterday I had kind of the similar position, so I was like, Okay, you were like this yesterday.  You can get it back.  Just keep calm and just keep playing golf.   
 Q.  Obviously the last few days from Monday to Thursday you've been playing the course pretty dry; we got some rain last night and this morning.  Did that affect the golf course at all in terms of conditions?  
MARIA TORRES: It was a little bit different from yesterday, but everybody is playing in the same conditions so you just have to prepare yourself better and try to do your best.   
 Q.  Well you mentioned earlier, you know, just looking, and you had all this media around and you everyone wants to talk to you and wants a piece of you, which is fantastic.  And we're also happy for you.  Does that put additional pressure?  Does that affect you at all?  
MARIA TORRES: I'm like a camera shy person, so...   
But I don't know, it's exciting to be in this position.  I'm grateful for it.  I don't know, just really grateful for it, to be honest.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT