ROSE BOWL GAME: OREGON VS WISCONSIN
December 29, 2019
Marcus Arroyo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  From what you've seen from Jim Leonhard and his defense, can you share what stands out about what he's been able to do with that group?  
MARCUS ARROYO: Yeah, I mean, they've done an awesome job. They're not in the Rose Bowl by accident. They've done a really nice job. Fundamentally, they do a great job up front, being where they're supposed to be, good job on the back end, fundamentally sound, disciplined football team and he's done an awesome job.   
 Q.  Obviously you talked about this the first time you were going through the process of two jobs essentially. How much have you been going back there? And now are you staying here and doing your work for UNLV here?  
MARCUS ARROYO: I've been back in Eugene with Oregon almost the whole bowl prep, the entire bowl prepare minus two days prior to the assignment. I've been here with Oregon. I haven't gone back.   
 Q.  How challenging has it been?  
MARCUS ARROYO: It's been a pretty challenging deal obviously early on. But it's been great refocussing, getting back with the team. It's an awesome opportunity.   
 Q.  You mentioned challenging. Wisconsin had a defensive coordinator who went through the same process, got the head coach job when they played TCU. He talked about some of the challenges. What were some of the challenges early on? Was it time consumption, trying to juggle two things?  
MARCUS ARROYO: I think the things early on, when you're trying to balance the two jobs, between hiring a staff, working through current staff, current roster, new roster, now with the early signing period the time I got hired, another nuance of it. Trying to put together something new with something you're trying to finish out what you started is just you mentioned time, there's not enough time in the day sometimes.   
But done a good job balancing it out and staying organized and great group with the athletic department back there and the AD and president behind me at UNLV doing a great job supporting me.   
 Q.  Could you use a five-minute break?  
MARCUS ARROYO: Five-minute break? Yeah. Set timers a lot.   
 Q.  Start of spring ball, where has this offense seen its biggest growth? What are you most pleased with starting spring ball to this game?  
MARCUS ARROYO: They've done a really good job of working through probably last season and then moving forward. I think that's the progress you hope you make when you're able to stay in the same system and roll through and timing, ability to kind of feel things out without having maybe talked about certain things, adjustments, clicking into adjustments.   
One example me being (indiscernible) for so long, him being able to think what I'm thinking before you're thinking it -- the ability to make some answers come to life without telling him and control some of what we're doing. I think all those things play into more just time, experience, being together with people.   
 Q.  How much do you feel (indiscernible) four-year starters, how much do you think it helped this season?  
MARCUS ARROYO: It's huge. Anytime you have that many guys with that many reps it's time tested and (indiscernible) in regards to guys having experience in many situations versus alternate looks. And (indiscernible) them together. You have to vibe together and that chemistry is important.   
 Q.  When you're watching Wisconsin how much does Zack Baun stand out in tape to you?  
MARCUS ARROYO: I'm not going to highlight one guy, but those guys have all done a really nice job. Zach is a perfect example, a guy who has been on that defense and done a really nice job of playing through the defense and working through the scheme that Coach Leonhard has for them. They're aggressive, do a great job. They're where they're supposed to be. You've got to be very conscious of where he's at.   
 Q.  Could you describe how your three tailbacks that you generally use complement each other? Looks like they have different roles depending where on the field and different packages.  
MARCUS ARROYO: Those guys have done phenomenal. Coach Mastro has done a really nice job with that group, rolling between C.J. and Cyrus and Dye and all the guys that we've had that have rolled through there, and done a phenomenal job. There are certain packages and roles that guys do a little bit better maybe than the others, but collectively we couldn't ask for a better group.   
 Q.  Is there a player you've seen on offense that maybe has grown the most over the course of the season, maybe surprised you by what they've been able to do?  
MARCUS ARROYO: I don't know if I would be surprised by (indiscernible). I just think we've been really excited by all the guys who had opportunity to grow in this offense.   
I think maybe an example of a guy that helps over the short time, Juwan, a transfer who has only been with us for one year, and I think Juwan has done a great job stepping in and working through some injuries and working through some stuff and really fighting back throughout the second half of the season.   
Young guys that show up that are with you in a short time, Mycah Pittman and examples like that, young guys that have had a chance to, when their number has been called, obviously Mycah has gone through some injuries, but just guys who you're seeing -- it's great to see those young guys step up or guys who haven't been with you the entire time really take advantage of their roles.   
 Q.  What do you see on film in terms of Wisconsin's defense, just how they stress opposing offenses?  
MARCUS ARROYO: Again, another coach -- a team that's coached, really, really well. Fundamentally sound, where they're supposed to be, aggressive. They do all the things right that good defenses do.   
 Q.  What are the differences between Baun and Orr, and through your eyes, how do they attack offensive lines and then getting the quarterback?  
MARCUS ARROYO: They have a really talented group of second-level guys who understand the run game. They're great in pass coverage. They understand protections. Solid downhill guys, play with their face forward. And they'll play on you. Aggressive group. Coach Leonhard has done a great job getting the group ready to roll all season, and I know we have our hands full.   
 Q.  It's important to stay on schedule, and against them, what they like to do with their front seven and getting after the quarterback and the situations, how much more important is it to make sure you guys stay ahead of the change against Wisconsin, a team that's one of the best in the country?  
MARCUS ARROYO: That's something obviously throughout the course of the season I think all of us are talking about, stay ahead of the chains, staying out of third and long, getting the best you can.   
With a great defense you have to make sure you know where they're at, and make sure on first and second down you're taking calculated risks and your guys are understanding you don't want to put yourself behind the chains. They do a great job getting after the quarterback and got a great scheme. And coached well. And excited to see them.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) the teams you face this year?  
MARCUS ARROYO: They're all independent in that regard. I don't categorize guys in terms of personnel. They're all a little bit different. But another team that's really, really physical and fundamentally sound, coached well. Good front. Good base personnel, good sub-personnel. They understand their packages. They do what they do well.   
 Q.  Moving on after this game, obviously you're going to be a head coach. Does that enter your mind at all or do you stay focused, this is it?  
MARCUS ARROYO: No, I'm trying to stay as focused as I can on this game. This is important for me and our guys to be around our guys and finish what we started. That time will come. When it does we'll switch gears.   
 Q.  Did you have any hesitation to coach in this game? Or how did that decision come about?  
MARCUS ARROYO: No, I had no hesitation that I wanted to coach in this game once me and Coach got together and decided it was possible to be able to pull off. And with the blessing of the athletic director at UNLV and president there, it was awesome opportunity.   
 Q.  Where do you think Justin made the most strides this season, his senior season?  
MARCUS ARROYO: At that position, the thing you can do in your senior year that really can help you the most is the mental growth, the mental side of the game. The game slows down every year for a quarterback. And I think that people saw that come to light in regards to making decisions and seeing the field and working together with different guys and different timing.   
He's been fortunate to be around a lot of these guys for that many years. He's had to work with some new guys throughout the course of the season and through injuries and that happens. I think that he's done a great job of growing and understanding protections and fronts and understanding down and distance, situational football, things that will help him not only this week but in the future.   
 Q.  After the Pac-12 title game you said it was kind of fun to be let loose and run and it was fun to have that added wrinkle. You have some more fun added wrinkles?  
MARCUS ARROYO: This will be a boring game. This will be the boringest game we've ever played in. I'm hoping to try to get them excited for it (sarcastic).   
I think Justin does a great job understanding the game plan and understanding what we have the ability to kind of let him do. Each game plan is independent of who we're playing and he does a great job executing -- that game is one example. Feel good about where we're at and preparation. I think he'll do a great job.   
 Q.  Johnny has said there hasn't really been any change in your commitment, your dedication to getting them ready for this game. How have you been balancing getting them ready for this game while at the same time trying to get your feet under your in front of you coming?  
MARCUS ARROYO: Lots of coffee. The balance has been new. I'll be honest. It's, tumbling and, it's something I don't pretend that I know -- you go through your career with mentors and situations to work with experiences to balance it out.   
Transition the best I can throughout the course of the hiring, and now I'm moving on to the Rose Bowl. And my commitment has definitely hasn't wavered in regards to coming in being with these guys and committing to this game.   
 Q.  How critical has it been to you for you that they don't feel the difference or they not see a difference?  
MARCUS ARROYO: I think that's critical but I think the relationship we have and the reason I'm here is because of our known commitment together. And I don't think that that's even a question. I don't think at any point if they felt that was -- if I felt I was going to waiver I would probably take myself out, but I'm locked in.   
 Q.  Studying Chris Orr on film, what makes him special as a playmaker, and how much do you see Wisconsin's defense (indiscernible)?  
MARCUS ARROYO: Again, he's one guy of the 11 they've got out there that are going to be out their every down. They do a great job putting their guys in the right situation. Coach Leonhard does a great job putting those guys in situations that are viable and advantage.   
They play hard. They know exactly where they're at on the field, know the down and distance. He's one example of that group that understands the scheme of what they're doing really well.   
 Q.  Have you seen a defense that is that balanced with pass rush from the second level --  
MARCUS ARROYO: Someone asked that earlier. I think from first to second to third level, this is the reason this group's in the Rose Bowl. They have balance from front to back and they really do a nice job with their scheme. They've been coached really, really well fundamentally. And we'll get their best shot.   
 Q.  They have PBUs spread across the defense, the D line bats balls down, the linebackers. How challenging is that for you as a play caller for Justin as a quarterback where lanes are not just, windows are just small?  
MARCUS ARROYO: They do a good job manipulating zone drops and getting guys into areas that they see, that fit their scheme. They do a really nice job from sideline to sideline, top to bottom of guys getting in lanes and being active. And so we have to be conscious of it. They do a nice job with it. And excited to see it.   
 Q.  In addition to your year in the pros you coached really good NFL quarterbacks like Nick Mullens and Nathan. I'm curious seeing, as you've been coaching Justin for a bit now, what does he bring to the table at the NFL level?  
MARCUS ARROYO: There's a litany of things that Justin has, tools to be successful at the next level. I think all those guys you shared with are all a little bit different. But they all have similar traits with how they work and how they mentally see the game, how they're able to put things together over the course of a game and any game.   
I think the next level for the quarterbacks is such a mental part of it. He's got the physical attributes and the guys you named have the physical attributes to put themselves in positions better, that's easy to see. I think it's the part to get through the ebbs and flows of playing and being an NFL quarterback or being a highly rated NFL quarterback going into everything. It's just he's got all the traits. It's great to see.   
 Q.  He had the ability to do that last year, chose to come back. Is there anything you guys worked on over specifically the course of the season to try to improve?  
MARCUS ARROYO: I think that's what I think, from a layman to say have the ability to do it last year, sometimes we overstate that in regards to having the ability to develop for another year. And I think he understood that. I think we understood it together that another year in college football wasn't going to lessen his ability to be successful in the following years.   
Having the ability to understand protections and having the ability to understand the run game, having the ability to see the field in different coverages, not the mention the fact that he wanted to play another year of college football, another year of solidifying things fundamentally and mentally only give you an advantage going into this.   
 Q.  To play devil's advocate, as I understand it, (indiscernible). But for those who don't, other than health and keeping him durable throughout the season why not run him more?  
MARCUS ARROYO: I think you have to choose in your offense when you take calculated risk, whether it's with play call or whether you put guys in position. And Justin's a huge part of what we do and the success we have had, taking calculated risks of when to put him into situations where he's out there by himself running around and has a chance to take hits is something we decide on and move forward with. And it's something we feel strongly about. We use it at our expense.   
 Q.  Obviously you guys are not a quarterback run operation by design. As you're going forward, are you philosophically more open to that, or is that just something that's not necessarily a big component of what you try to do?  
MARCUS ARROYO: I think you have to build your offense around who you've got. We've got wholeheartedly in regards to your personnel, you've got to make sure you -- I also believe in being smart and being calculated. And when you put guys in situations that you have to understand when you may get a chance to lose that guy or the advantages or disadvantages you may put yourself in.   
So we'll continue to move forward obviously throughout this week with Justin and what we feel with the game plan. And then philosophically I think anyone is going to take advantage of their roster they've got.   
 Q.  Going back to three years ago when you guys first got there, could you see (indiscernible) you and Mario were both assistants (indiscernible) other position groups. Did you see the vision and plan he had to eventually, potentially take this program to where you are now at this stage at that point?  
MARCUS ARROYO: I think we saw kind of what we believed in and build in, and obviously it's been nice to see it all come together. From recruiting guys we understand that we believe have traits, guys that fit us to developing guys we have in the program.   
 Q.  What's it been like for you in terms of balancing time? Is it all Oregon stuff or --  
MARCUS ARROYO: This has been all Oregon. There's a balance of, a delicate balance early on in the process of putting your mind in a place where you've got staff irons in recruiting and things that go in a new job and a new realm and then this has been my focus this week.   
 Q.  Is there anybody you've talked to after you took the UNLV job to figure out how to approach the weeks that follow?  
MARCUS ARROYO: I've reached out to as many guys as I can that have been in my past. I won't go through or mention names, put them in the spot, but I think that's what I believe in. I think the reason I'm in the position is because I've asked good questions and I'm not afraid to kind of work through how to maybe adjust to something I'm not accustomed to.   
Having one job and doing another, it's not something I've done before, so I've asked the right questions to guys in the past who have been successful in that regard or can help me out. And I think it's helped me out.   
 Q.  How would you describe C.J. Verdell's job?  
MARCUS ARROYO: He does a really nice job. He's a guy that can make you miss -- downhill, runs hard, patient at all times, good feet, good direction, can catch the ball in the backfield, understands pass protection. I think C.J. doesn't get enough credit for his ability to do all of it. He's done an awesome job, phenomenal.   
 Q.  Lot of guts for a little guy in pass protection?  
MARCUS ARROYO: Yeah, don't judge the height. He's tough. He's as tough as it gets. He does an awesome job.   
 Q.  Did he come to Oregon with that kind of running style or is that something you had to work with him on?  
MARCUS ARROYO: Since C.J. got to us he's been a downhill guy that's done a nice job of doing a great job in the run game, being able to hit the hole with speed and hit it with -- at times be patient as well. He's learned through that. That's something backs learn over the course of the career, patience and vision. And he got asked to do it at an early age. I think he's done a really nice job growing and maturing in that position.   
 Q.  When you first met Justin, what were your thoughts of him and just how much has it grown in the four years that you've had him?  
MARCUS ARROYO: When we first met we (indiscernible) a chance to understand each other. That was important to me to earn his trust. Understanding him as a person was really important to understand the relationship that a quarterback coach and a quarterback can have. And that's really segued us into the ability to be successful between the lines.   
And I think our relationship has come a long ways. He's an amazing young man, raised by an awesome family. And has all the traits to be successful not only in football but he's proven it now with everything he's done, the accolades he's done off the field. And I can't say enough good things about him and his success in life will be no surprise to anyone who knows him.   
 Q.  What did you know that he had back then? And maybe what's the biggest steps or improvements he's made over the past three years?  
MARCUS ARROYO: Ultra competitive. Mentally wants to be challenged. Really loves to compete. Humble. All the things that make up for being successful in that position in a lot of ways I thought could be grown and matured and given the opportunity for me and him to work together extensively given his want to do.   
When you're in that stage early on you have to find out how much a guy wants to do that. And we found out we both want to work hard together for whatever it took to get to this stage. He's grown, taken leaps and bounds in regards to maturing in the position and understanding it and working through the ebbs and flows of being a college quarterback.   
 Q.  Segueing to the next guy who could play that position, what have you seen from Tyler from when he showed up last year as a true freshman to where he is now?  
MARCUS ARROYO: Recruiting Tyler out of Arizona was -- he's grown into -- hopefully you see those things come out when you recruited him and you did your checklist and you did your evals -- what traits he's got, what kind of personality he's got, how does he like to work.   
A lot of the core fundamental things that I thought could be built on, he's developed and blossomed into. I think Tyler is going to be a really promising young quarterback in this conference. Given the right opportunity and guidance he'll be as good as anybody.   
 Q.  Guys like to play right away. How much of a benefit has it been for him to sit behind Justin for two years and take in what he's done?  
MARCUS ARROYO: I think it's been great. I think it's hard to tell someone that when you're recruiting them and you say, hey, you're going to be in a great position to grow and not yet have maybe played a ton and that's hard to understand until you do it.   
But you have to use examples, and fortunately I've been around great mentors, Jeff Tedford (phonetic), who have helped me understand how to get quarterbacks to mature throughout learning and the situations where you pay attention to NFL quarterbacks who sit and watch guys develop before they actually get thrown in the fire. And I think it's a great opportunity, he sees it now that the ability he's had to sit behind Justin and learn and see things is going to only pay dividends moving forward.   
 Q.  Four months from now your phone rings and it's Justin's quarterback coach of whatever team drafts him. What do you tell that guy in terms of both the kid he's getting but also how to go about connecting with him and building a relationship with him?  
MARCUS ARROYO: The last part probably is make sure you build a relationship with him. I think that any great quarterback, any great coach, let alone quarterback coach has got to understand mentally -- that's the toughest position in sports because of having to deal with the mental hurdles of it, getting through things like this and the pressure and all the stuff and all the accolades and all the blaming.   
And I think a quarterback coach (indiscernible) how much do you know him, how much are your guys around him. Get to know him. Get down to the nuts and bolts and trust him, and you'll do great. Those won't be an issue. Justin loves to work. The guys who are fortunate enough to get a chance to get him will be amazingly excited about it.   
 Q.  You really coached him up, and he's grown leaps and bounds on the field, but have you had conversations with him over the years about situations like this and what's expected of him and how to go about handling that in the best way possible?  
MARCUS ARROYO: Yeah, loosely. You do just enough to where you can talk through it enough and then you move forward. And we don't spend -- we don't spend an inordinate amount of time talking about that part of it. We've talked loosely about it because I think it's important for him to understand and more as we've got closer in that regard. And I think it's really cool to see, really couple to see some of the things blossom in him.   
 Q.  What were the discussions like last year with Justin about him, because he could have left last year and gone to the NFL? What did he want to work on, what did you want to work on with him? And has he accomplished those goals this year?  
MARCUS ARROYO: Well, I just feel that personally we sat down, talked about it at length, the opportunity to grow, to grow as a quarterback, both on and off the field, mature in your locker room, mature with your guys.   
Not to mention the fact that he's an Oregon kid. He's from Eugene. He's got the loyalty and pride he's got for the school is amazing. It's really nice to see. And so on top of that talking through what I thought he could grow through with protection and footwork and timing and rhythm and understanding defense and things I know they're going to help him as he moves forward.   
If we could get a little more of that I think it would only be an advantage. I think it paid off. I think you see some of the game slow down to him. I think his footwork in the pocket, I think his accuracy, little things you hope to see to improve a little bit. He did a great job with.   
 Q.  When you got here, obviously he'd been through the Pac-12 grind, thrown into the fire really, where was his confidence level at after going through that and how did you try to enhance that?  
MARCUS ARROYO: Well, I think the thing we were able to hit it off with best he was a true freshman and I was a true freshman too at different levels, but had been obviously's I'm fortunate to have been trained that way with some coaches that kind of gave me the advantage of sitting down and talking with them about his experience and where he was at get to know him see where he was at mentally work from there instead of just saying here's Xs and Os and let's just fly forward. That helped me to get to know him and earn his trust in regards to understanding what he went through the first year and from there it was foot on the gas and get to know each other and work through it and handle those ebbs and flows that come with being a college quarterback and an elite one, try to develop to be the best he can be. He's done an awesome job.   
 Q.  How unique is it for him and these offensive linemen to go through the whole thing together without a lot of moving parts, really?  
MARCUS ARROYO: I think it's something that everyone probably should take note of. We're highlighting the ability for all of these guys to stay together, but continuity in sports is a lot. We say it a lot, but I don't know how much it's practiced in regards to what you control and so I think it's something that I know I'm fond of in regards to that because I think the continuity of a staff, continuity of guys, continuity of players enhances the relationship and chemistry. And then if you don't take that at the forefront I think sometimes you can be left behind and unfortunately be hard to work uphill against.   
 Q.  Are you all business with Justin? I know the O line takes great relish in giving him a hard time, what's your relationship in that regard?  
MARCUS ARROYO: Yeah, we've got a really close relationship. We together we spend a lot of time together and a lot of time talking about things that aren't football. I can't really compete with his hair, but I guess that's something I've just kind of acquiesced to. But he's just an amazing young man. We take every opportunity we can to look at the bigger picture of things. I think it's the bigger picture of a coach/player relationship. Earn trust -- it's the glue. When things start to get bumpy, you can fall back on as people, no different than any other relationship. And I'm fortunate to have been around him.   
 Q.  How do you think he'll handle the NFL, not in terms of on the field but the attention? I know the PR staff will like his answers and all that stuff, but how do you think he'll handle that kind of thing?  
MARCUS ARROYO: I think he'll mature just fine. I think obviously he's a really bright young man. I think any team that's going to finally get down to know him really well is going to see there aren't any major hiccups. He doesn't get distracted very well. Really smart, great person, high character. High integrity. Low ego. High output. There's a lot of things to check, a lot of boxes. Any team is going to be lucky to have him.   
 Q.  What's it like coaching Patrick and Justin?  
MARCUS ARROYO: Patrick and Justin are very different. Equally awesome. Patrick is a true freshman. Not saying much right now, but he does a great job responding, great job coming to work every day. There are similarities in regards to having high character and loving to work and it's really cool to see those guys out there.   
 Q.  Patrick, to have that kind of shadow in front of him like that shade (inaudible)?  
MARCUS ARROYO: It's different because they're different persons. They've grown up (indiscernible) together done a great job working through that. Patrick has done a great job being in the zone and I'm excited to see him and his career blossom.   
 Q.  His progress in this season, obviously you had multiple talented tight ends in front of him. Where does he set up in the next couple of years?  
MARCUS ARROYO: Patrick has a bright future at tight end. Great job working through the season. Young guy, true freshman, putting on weight, playing the position, learning the position. It's very different playing in the box at Sheldon High School, playing in the box and Pac-12 play. And he'll do a great job. Coach does a great job getting him available mentally and character-wise. And he's come in, brought that in, going to do a great job.   
 Q.  That position play as a true freshman, especially having the size, was it ever realistic to think you'd see that connection this season, or is it just depth, progression?  
MARCUS ARROYO: I think every game plan is different. It's obviously, as a young guy it's hard to see if he's ready for that right away. It's a hybrid position. It's another really tough position in college to play, a guy who can play the pass game and also has to be in the box and control some defensive ends as a freshman is tough. So I'm excited, if that time comes, if it would -- just hasn't come up.   
 Q.  C.J. Verdell's pass run game record just a few yards short of the all-time record, where does it rank among performances you've seen?  
MARCUS ARROYO: C.J. has done an awesome job. He's really built on what he started with. I think there's obviously some questions early on about him that not many of us understood, nor did it really matter because he's just continued to grow. He's done such a really good job. I think his performance in that game was phenomenal.   
He showed early on in the season his success, and being around guys -- fortunately to be around some guys in my career, whether it be Chris Larson or others, watch some guys develop over the course of the year, C.J. is right there with some of the guys (inaudible). And to watch C.J. go off (indiscernible) was just really cool.   
 Q.  He said he likes playing with a chip on his shoulder, felt it against Utah and Wisconsin. What's an example of him playing with a chip on his shoulder, have you seen that?  
MARCUS ARROYO: More than anything you can see it in the way he runs. He runs hard pound for pound against some of the toughest guys on our team. His demeanor, the way he goes about things -- you guys can't see it very often -- but the weekly work, the Sunday to Thursday of the way he works is bar none. You can see that.   
 Q.  A lot of seniors' last game, six seniors left in the Duck uniform. Have you heard any of the conversations or do you know what they're kind of going through as far as, all right, this is our last one?  
MARCUS ARROYO: It's my last one. I know exactly what they're talking about. No, they're phenomenal. They've been awesome. Their chemistry is unbelievable. I think they've done an awesome job of really cherishing the moment. That's really important. They've talked about it. They're going to do a great job and excited to be a part of it.   
 Q.  Do you have a favorite moment from all the events that have gone on at the Rose Bowl?  
MARCUS ARROYO: I think the whole thing is just it's amazing. I'm a West Coast kid. Grew up in a small town in northern California. This is it. This is a big deal.   
 Q.  Justin talked about being an introvert, how to change, go about doing that in a way as a quarterback. What do you think he gained from that insight and that discussion?  
MARCUS ARROYO: It's a pretty for me and him and our relationship, things like that we thought we could work through. It's not just change; it's just understand. He's an introvert in a lot of regards. And I think managing that power can be really, really cool. There's a lot of pressure on maybe guys in that regard to think they have to change who they are, and it was something that I felt important for us to talk through and manage his personality. And I think he's done an awesome job.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT