NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 17, 2007
Gerald Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Talk briefly about your performance this evening?   
 GERALD GREEN:  I'm just so excited.  I've always dreamed about being in the Dunk Contest, and I never dreamed about actually being in it or winning.   
 So just coming out here, Las Vegas, the great city of Las Vegas and winning it for my fans in Houston, my fans in Boston is tremendous.   
  
  Q.  What did you think about the scoring they were giving early on?   
 GERALD GREEN:  I kind of knew they were going to be tough, because those guys had the creativity of the dunking style.  I tried to come out with something they never did before, hopefully they can give me a score.   
  
  Q.  Did it seem like Michael was especially tough?   
 GERALD GREEN:  I think I would have been tough, too.  He's -- like I said, he's one of the greatest dunkers of all times.  When you've got him judging you, it's going to be tough.   
  
  Q.  With the struggles of the Celtics this year, does this do anything to give you anything positive to this season?   
 GERALD GREEN:  Yes, I think it does.  All my teammates and coaches in the organization were rooting for me.  I tried to come out here and tried to make a positive out of the season.   
  
  Q.  The Dee Brown dunk, what was the motivation for that?   
 GERALD GREEN:  Just to kind of honor and respect what he had did back in '91 when he won the Slam-Dunk Contest.  He was the only Celtic to win it at the time.   
 So I just kind of wanted to show respect for being the winner of the dunk contest.   
  
  Q.  What are your thoughts on -- were you ready to use the stand on Nate Robinson, what were your thoughts when he came out?   
 GERALD GREEN:  When I used the stand it was actually one of our staff members, Johnny Joe, we call him J.J., he gave me the idea of using the cardboard to dunk over.  I got cardboards made of everybody, but I wanted to use Nate Robinson, since he was the champ.  I wanted to take it away from you, so I'm going to use you as a prop.  I took the cardboard out.  I didn't think Nate Robinson was going to let me use him.  He said, "I want you to jump over me in person."  So I did that, and it was no problem.   
  
  Q.  How many hours did you and Paul practice dunks after practice was over?  Every day?   
 GERALD GREEN:  Actually we didn't really practice that long.  We used to practice before practice.  I lift weights before practice every day, an hour before, so we was always practicing like 10, 15 minutes before practice and leave it at that.   
 I kind of wanted -- I didn't want to be seen, because I didn't want everybody to find out what I was doing.   
  
  Q.  The difference between the shoes, the green and the white, you made the change there?   
 GERALD GREEN:  I use that, because the white shoes was the older version of the pumps.  And the green I was wearing now is newer.  The white ones, they were exactly the same as Dee Brown used, but they were similar.  I wanted to show the respect and do everything the way he did.  He went down and pumped the shoes up, and I tried the best to use his dunk in a different kind of way.   
  
  Q.  What does the mean, the No. 2 on the headband?   
 GERALD GREEN:  This means Red Auerbach.  He was the heart, face, and the soul of the Boston Celtics.  I just went with the No. 2 to kind of show him thanks.   
  
  Q.  You guys have been calling this The Gerald Green Show for a couple of weeks now.  How good does it feel to make that actually be the case?   
 GERALD GREEN:  It feels pretty good.  Everybody was asking me, "Do you think it's a lot of pressure?"  I just want to go out and have fun.  My number one goal was to have fun, and that's what I did.   
  
  Q.  How has your overall experience been this weekend?   
 GERALD GREEN:  It's been great.  Now I have a toothache that's really killing me.  Hopefully I can take some medication and make it go away, after I get back to Boston I have to get to a dentist.   
  
  Q.  Any parties?   
 GERALD GREEN:  I might go hang out a little bit, celebrate this trophy right here in front of me.  I might go out and have fun, but not too much.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT