UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 21, 2009
Aaron Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. I've seen you and Blake there, two local guys. What does it mean being a local guy to get this opportunity to play?   
 AARON WILLIAMS: It's always exciting. Being a local guy. Not trying to get too distracted and to stay focused on the task.  
  
  Q. (No microphone)?  
 AARON WILLIAMS: I have cousins and uncles I ain't never heard of asking for tickets. You know, people come out here and always ask, but family comes first, so...  
  
  Q. After the seniors day, they can't believe they got the chance because they worked so long for it. But for you younger guys, how exciting is it that you got this chance early?   
 AARON WILLIAMS: It's exciting, but it's nerve-racking, you have to come out and perform your bests. You're out there on the field for a reason. You have to just have fun with it.   
  
  Q. What did he do or say to help you?  
 AARON WILLIAMS: Don't mess up, really. No, they take care of us. They try to motivate us. Trying to calm us down in big-time situations. You've just got to not think about it as much and just take care of it.   
  
  Q. Is there something you think you can do in the secondary?   
 AARON WILLIAMS: I mean, you can't really worry about that. He's a big guy. You know, you can't set him up or anything. You've got to wrap up, move your feet and keep driving because you never know if you get loose or not.   
  
  Q. What about Julio Jones? Have you had a chance to watch him and your thoughts of going against him?   
 AARON WILLIAMS: I haven't watched him that much. The times that they have games on TV, I get a glimpse of it a little bit. But I know he's a great receiver, a real big guy, real physical. Catches the ball good.   
  
  Q. Are you up for a challenge like that?   
 AARON WILLIAMS: I'm always up for a challenge. All our secondaries are up for the challenge.  
  
  Q. At what point during the preparation have you or will you start getting a little anxious, getting a little excited?   
 AARON WILLIAMS: I'll get more excited when I step foot in L.A. And once that comes about, my heart will start beating a little faster. Until then, I'm fine right now.  
  
  Q. Talk about the seniors that were there in '05, many of you guys have never been to the Rose Bowl?   
 AARON WILLIAMS: I've never been to the Rose Bowl. This is my first time. It's going to be a good experience. I can't wait.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
   
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT