BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 30, 2017
Michael Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Boston College - 28, Central Michigan - 8   
 Q.  Michael, just on that opening punt return, why wasn't there anybody in the middle for them?  
MICHAEL WALKER: I don't know what to say.  We probably blocked it perfectly probably, and it was right there.  It was wide open, and just saw it and just took it.   
 Q.  Michael, when you get the second and third one, are you excited that you returned it back there or are you a little disappointed you didn't break it?  
MICHAEL WALKER: I mean, no, I'm definitely excited, definitely excited every single time.  I mean, just got to take the opportunity and just try and make the most out of it.   
 Q.  How does it feel to have a spark like that?  The offense had struggled the first couple series, and it just takes one play where you can feel like you made a real impact?  
MICHAEL WALKER: Definitely any way I can to help the team out.  If we need that little spark and I can provide it, then that's all we need.  Helped the momentum going.   
 Q.  Just knowing how challenging your schedule is, these games when you have -- there are certain games that you have a chance to regain some confidence after a tough loss, but also you know they're very important, how do you navigate the swings in the types of games you play?  
MICHAEL WALKER: I mean, definitely as Coach Addazio said, always just keep chopping.  Got to attack every game -- doesn't matter who you're playing, just got to attack it full force.  Definitely helps with confidence.  It was good to get that win today.  Definitely help us moving forward.   
 Q.  What was the confidence last week moving into this week?  
MICHAEL WALKER: I wouldn't say it was any different.  You've got to hit every game the same way, so just go full speed as hard as you can.  That's pretty much it.   
 Q.  When you're trying to return those runs, it looks like you have the strategy of running into the punt 10 yards out.  Why do you do that and what's the risk-reward behind it?  
MICHAEL WALKER: I mean, especially with today's they were doing the rugby pants so there wasn't much hang time.  So if I didn't see anyone there I could run full speed and hit it.  Definitely there's a risk to it, but the reward is you hit it full speed and that crease is there, so you get to hit it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT