NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: AVALANCHE v RED WINGS
May 17, 2002
Sergei Fedorov
Igor Larionov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Igor, how much did you skate today and are you ready to go tomorrow?

IGOR LARIONOV: I didn't skate today.  I was doing my therapy and workout on the bike.  And it's a game-time decision.

Q.  Sergei and/or Igor.  Can you guys just talk a little bit about getting ready for this series and playing Colorado and kind of the things that have gone on between these two teams in the playoffs over the last five or six years?  

SERGEI FEDOROV:  Well, I think it's too late to talk about getting ready.  I think we should be ready for tomorrow because there is a game at 3:00 and there is really no time left.  It's been always intense and very tough series for both teams.  I think every game, it's like a battle out there.  And you can see so many things out there, physical content and skill content and lots of power plays, penalty killings, lots of skating and great plays, and obviously quite a few saves out there.  Both teams got great goalies and both teams got great squads, so  --

Q.  Igor or Sergei, or both, your thoughts on Forsberg and what he's done after not having played a series game?

IGOR LARIONOV: I think he's been the key forward of the Avalanche.  He played great.  The last series against the Avalanche and Sharks, he was the one that actually did it.  I'm always going to respect that and pay attention to him because he's the guy who can do damage by himself.

Q.  For either one of you, the week off, how do you kind of tow the line between too much rest and staying sharp without playing any games?

SERGEI FEDOROV:  We had two days off after Saturday last week, and then we had a couple meetings and a couple of practices, just skating after those two days off.  We work on shooting and skating and passing skills.  They were very intense.  I thought everybody did a very good job.  They skated very hard.  The last two or three practices were special practices because we were working on power play, penalty killings, and breakouts and 3-on-2s, 2-on-1s, something like that because it's going to be a very intense and fast skating series.

Q.  For either one of you, can you talk about whether this may be the best matchup of goaltenders in a Stanley Cup Finals in years?

IGOR LARIONOV:  I think they're the two best goalies in the world playing against each other.  Pat has been tremendous in the last two games against San Jose.  He's playing best, and his team needs him to play the best.  Dominik Hasek, he's playing great hockey for us also.  I would say it's a huge challenge and huge chance for Dominik and we know that, and I think Dominik would be even more strong and more sharp in this series.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT