NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: RED WINGS v FLYERS
June 7, 1997
Igor Larionov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Igor, could you just talk about the emotions that you felt when you got the Cup and what did you think about Steve's decision to give the Cup to you and Slava first?
 
IGOR LARIONOV:  I guess we were the -- Slava and we played a big role to carry the Cup out.  Big honor.  More Slava and myself to carry the Cup.  It was a great feeling and it is unbelievable feeling when you carry the Cup around the rink and 20,000 people who are being supportive and it was a lot -- it was unbelievable thing. 
 

Q.  Do you think the fact that the five of you playing together and everything that was made about the Russian 5, do you think it might mean a little bit more?
 
IGOR LARIONOV:  I guess intention to this club, five Russians playing Red Wings and I think it is special feeling because last year we lost to Colorado in the Semifinals and everybody expect for us to win the Cup with Detroit and, of course, a lot of people from Russia expect from us to win the Cup.  This year it was a different story.  We were underdogs in the first round of the Playoffs, even in the Finals.  And to myself and Slava, it is kind of old way trophy because we played together for many years.  We went through tough times together to win the World Championships and European Cups an this is the only trophy that was missing from our collection. 
 

Q.  Will you take the Cup to Russia?
 
IGOR LARIONOV:  I don't know.  We got five Russians and every player has two days, five times two is ten days, if we can take a few days to Russia to Russian people to enjoy. 
 

Q.  How does this compare in your mind to a World Championship or Olympic Gold Medal?
 
IGOR LARIONOV:  There is no comparison.  When you play a World Championships and Olympic games, you play against just for 5, 7 games.  This is most difficult trophy to get because you have to play high level of hockey for two months and against great teams and, you know, I never been in the Finals. My first appearance in my eight year career in Russian hockey and this is toughest trophy.  I have been playing hockey for 20 years and this is the happiest moment in my life. 
 

Q.  You have played with a lot of great players before. Where does Steve Yzerman rate among the players you have played with?
 
IGOR LARIONOV:  Steve is a very good player.  Somebody asked me yesterday about same kind of the question.  It is really hard to describe.  Steve, he is a -- Steve Yzerman, he  is a complete player.  He is a leader.  He is the key guy in the locker room.  I am very impressed with his play because he has been playing all season without taking breaks.  He played the same level.  He has so much respect for himself and so much pride and it is a privilege to play with Steve Yzerman and I think he is one of the best players in the world. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT