SAN DIEGO COUNTY CREDIT UNION POINSETTIA BOWL: TCU v LOUISIANA TECH
December 21, 2011
Jay Dudley
Sonny Dykes
Myles White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We have head coach Dykes, wide receiver Myles White, is and, I forget who else.   Coach? 
SONNY DYKES:   Well, you know, really proud of this football team.   Um, for us to get here and to have the kind of year that we had with the kind of start that we had, I was really proud of the way they responded this year. 
We started 1‑4 and guys just kept believing in themselves and kept hang inning in there and recommitted themselves and became a good football team.   It was a little disappointing, the way we played tonight, we wished we would have played better and had a better opportunity to win but TCU is a great football team and they made plays down toward the end when we didn't.
But it was a hard‑fought football team.   I talked with our team about the need to play 60 minutes and we thought it would be a physical game and it was.   They made a play down the stretch and we didn't. 
I guess the really good football team like this, we've got to play a little bit better.   We turned the ball over twice in the first half, had two critical turnovers that both hurt us, missed a field goal that hurt us, and in order to beat them we needed to play better than we did. 

Q.   Myles, did you feel like you would be up a little bit more, were you disappointed when you went to the locker room and it was tied? 
MYLES WHITE:   A little bit, I felt like we had the best of them in the first half and against good teams you can't be lackadaisical against them and it just proved that we had to take advantage of our situations. 

Q.   What were they doing on that one drive, 9 minutes, were they just changing up allot on you?   What happened on that big, long drive? 
JAY DUDLEY:   They just handing up on us, and we weren't playing as hard as we should have.

Q.   Myles, if you could, take us through the touchdown catch and what it felt like that make that kind of a play in this kind of a game? 
MYLES WHITE:   Obviously it felt good, making the play for the team and we just saw man‑to‑man the whole time and they trusted our speed over their speed and I reached out and by the grace of God it kinda fell into my body.   I felt it was a great‑‑ I was really happy for myself and for us to be up as a go‑ahead touchdown and I thought we were going to bust the game open from that point. 

Q.   We need you to talk about the fact that you had these guys on the ropes, 16th ranked team in the nation how do you feel going back to Louisiana knowing that you went toe to toe with them? 
JAY DUDLEY:   We feel okay, but we should have beat 'em, we started something for Louisiana Tech and hopefully Myles and the rest of the junior and sophomores will be able to finish it up next year. 

Q.   Myles?   Can you comment? 
MYLES WHITE:   It's disappointing because we felt like we should have beat them just like Jay said but in a positive sense it's like a jump‑start to next year because it shows what our potential is and what we can do. 

Q.   Jay, on that disputed touchdown where it looked like they may have fumbled at the goal line and may not have, where were you on that play and what did you see? 
JAY DUDLEY:   I was taking on a block at that point in time, I didn't see too much, I just seen my teammates pointing the other way and I started pointing the other way, too. 

Q.   Myles, when you lose your last game is it considered a good season for you because you did something this team hasn't done in a long time in piling up the wins but I know you wanted to finish strong and you didn't do that? 
MYLES WHITE:   In a sense it's a good feeling but ultimately it's a negative feeling and it's going to leave a nasty taste in our mouth and we feel like we can shoot‑out with any team in the country so we are going to use this as motivation and keep working hard over the off‑season. 

Q.   Sonny, what did you say to the guys at halftime, seemed like you guys should have been up by a lot more. 
SONNY DYKES:   When you play a good football team like TCU and you have as many opportunities to distance yourself from them as we did in the first half that's going to come back and bite you if you don't make enough place.   We had enough opportunities, got down inside the 10 a couple of times, missed a field goal, really felt like we dominated the first half, felt like our defense played well the fist half, TCU was trying to hurry up at offense a little bit and played into our hands, the defense played close to 50 snaps in the first half so we thought we wore 'em down a little bit and then the game started going down and they started pounding us, we missed a couple of good tackles.   They've got three good running backs and those guys are physical, took it's toll, wore us down. 

Q.   Your offense, did you go to 5 receivers like that all year long? 
SONNY DYKES:   That was something we did from time to time but we felt like it was a good match‑up are for us, TCU didn't see a lot of empties, this year, we liked when they blitzed it, and we liked some of the things we could do when they played zone and rushed with 4. 

Q.   Colby, talk about that‑‑
SONNY DYKES:   He and Patton weren't on the same page, that was a critical play in the game, gave them a cheap touchdown right before the half.   Could have gone into halftime with a sizable lead but let them right back into the game. 

Q.   Sonny, seemed like the guys bounced back well from a couple of things like that second touchdown, TCU answered and you guys answered back, it's not something that a 1‑4 team would have done at the beginning of the year but this team‑‑
SONNY DYKES:   Yeah, that's been our MO all year long, and I can't tell you how great of a group of seniors this is, and I don't think anybody expected this to be much of a game, if you asked the national media, they wouldn't know what state Louisiana Tech was in, probably. 
So, I mean, for our guys to come out here and play with the confidence that we played with and expect to win, I think, is a real credit to them and the work ethic and how far we've come as a program. 

Q.   Do you know that a national network was talking about a key match‑up in the game, featuring a running back wasn't eligible for Louisiana Tech, does that lend credence to what you're saying? 
SONNY DYKES:   Yeah, it does, I think, yeah. 

Q.   Coach, what did you guys do to hold down their offense in the first half? 
SONNY DYKES:   Well, you know, the biggest thing was we didn't give up big plays.   We made 'em drive the ball the length of the field and coming into the game I felt like that was going to be critical for us.   Forced them to execute, we're a good field position football team, we do a good job covering punts and kicks and as a result we had atendency to pin people back. 
Anytime you make 'em drive and execute and string together a long‑scoring driving, that's tough for an offense to do, they're going to drop a ball, miss an assignment.   To TCU's credit they came out the second half, took about 9 minutes put together a drive and ate up a good part of the fourth quarter and that's what hard‑nosed football teams do, and that's what TCU is.   They're a big, physical team, they had a physical advantage over us at times. 
But as I said, I'm proud of our guys for scrapping and playing hard. 

Q.   Sonny, do you think during that 9‑minute drive do you think they wore you down and it was tough‑‑
SONNY DYKES:   I think, wore us down and they got the pass interference call that set things up, our defense did a great job of stopping them and they got a new set of downs.   I liked that our kids kept playing, we were close to forcing a, turnover, thereafter we gave them a fresh set of downs and a lot of our kids felt like it was a turn over and the official said the replay official had a good view of it, so I'm sure they made the great call.   I thought the officiating was good, they were Big 10 officials and it's as good of a crew as I've ever been around. 

Q.   Does the loss detract from the 9‑1 season? 
SONNY DYKES:   Well, you want to win your last game, you really do, especially when you have a chance against a great program.   This was an opportunity for us to put ourselves on the map a little bit. 
I think we did in some ways, I think we garnered a lot of people's respect, but we're not a big outfit, we expect to win games and expected to win this one and we want to make sure that whatever bowl game we play in next year we want to make sure we win it. 

Q.   Tank Carder's name wasn't called a lot, what did you do? 
SONNY DYKES:   Spread him out, he's dominant as a box linebacker, but to get him out and make him play in a lot of space, I think he's more comfortable playing against a team that's playing with a tight end or full back, a little more 12, 21 personnel, he likes better.   We felt like there were some things we could take advantage of in that regard. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Coach.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT