MASTERS TOURNAMENT
November 12, 2020
Dylan Frittelli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. (Inaudible)?  
DYLAN FRITTELLI: It was pretty good. I felt calm on the 1st tee for a change. That was a different feeling than the first time around playing there. I actually felt more comfortable when I made a bogey on 12. For some reason, that just calmed me down, and I thought, okay, now I can go for it, and just try and make as many birdies as I can. I did that, I guess. I eagled 13. 14, 15, 16 birdies. It was fun. Light started fading. Made a great save on 17, and 18 even better, I think.   
All in all, I'm proud of the way I handled the mental side of things. I was able to feel comfortable and play my normal game.  
   
 Q. (Inaudible)?   
DYLAN FRITTELLI: It's a tricky one. There's always that question like do you finish the hole? Do you hit the tee shot? But for me, I'm swinging well right now, and I feel nice and loose. So trying to swing at 7:00, 7:30 in the morning and hit that first tee shot may be pretty tough.   
I'm not actually sure where my ball ended up. It's down the left side somewhere. My caddie is going to mark it. Hopefully, it's in play, and I can hit it on the green tomorrow.  
   
 Q. Considering you haven't played a ton of golf here, how do you feel about the start so far?   
DYLAN FRITTELLI: It's pretty good. It's obviously a totally different golf course right now in these conditions. Once we get some sunshine on it tomorrow and they turn the fans on tonight and the greens firm up, I think it will be a very different test Friday afternoon, Saturday, and Sunday. Yeah, I'm happy to start off like that. Hopefully, I can keep making birdies.   
   
 Q. Knowing that it's going to be some long days coming up, how do you kind of prepare for that? I know you guys do it a lot. There's a lot of times on the PGA TOUR, but this is a Major, Augusta National. It's a little bit different. Is it a different mentality?   
DYLAN FRITTELLI: No, I'm super prepared with everything we do. I actually told my caddie as were walking off, and I said, John, we're good. I don't need to go back to the locker room this evening or tomorrow morning. I've got all my stuff in my car, shoes for tomorrow. It's all set out. I'll get out of here pretty quickly, see my physio and get a bit of work done, then head home, dinner, and get here in the morning straight from the caddie area, warm up, and get on the course. No time wasted.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT