THE 148TH OPEN
July 18, 2019
Dylan Frittelli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Today I felt in control.  And it was pretty straightforward.   
 Q.  What was the extent of your preparation?  And you got here Monday, obviously?  
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Got in Monday, 9 a.m., straight to the course, did the media stuff.  And I walked the golf course, really for no other reason but to stay awake (laughter).  Took a long time to walk it with my caddie.   
 Q.  Take any notes?  
DYLAN FRITTELLI: No.  I walked around to kill time.  I didn't even touch a club, physio in the afternoon.   
Tuesday I did nine holes.  What was it, 1 through -- 1, finished on 12.  And then practised a bit.  Didn't do much, though.  It was maybe five hours for the total.  Had a workout in the morning with my trainer.  I had a nice workout in the morning.   
Did 1, 2, 3, 4 tee shot, 12 and then 18.  I didn't actually see 14 through 17 in practice at all, I just walked it.   
 Q.  It had helped you played the Irish here?  
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Yeah.  If I hadn't I probably would have pushed myself to play 18 on Tuesday and then 9 or a few holes on Wednesday, which meant I would be more fatigued than I am now.   
 Q.  What did you find at John Deere, what did you find going into John Deere that is carrying over?  
DYLAN FRITTELLI: A mind switch changed I had two or three weeks ago.  I tend to be a lot analytical, you know, from my college days.  I overanalyse things, get a little too serious.  I've worked with a sports psych, basically just become a playful kid again, have fun.  Don't take a bunch of practice swings.  Just see it, feel it, hit it, and stay really carefree, I guess.  So that was a mindset change.   
My game has been there the whole season.  I made a bunch of cuts.  My shots gained I'm 80th.  My putting was 140th, I was way behind.  But last week I made a bunch of putts.  I was second overall in putting.  That was the major turnaround I had statistically.   
 Q.  Is there a way to illustrate how you felt in previous Opens to how you feel now?  
DYLAN FRITTELLI: The first one I played two years ago, I remember standing on the -- it was Lytham two years ago, right?   
 Q.  No, Birkdale.  
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Birkdale on the first tee and I was so nervous.  I couldn't hit the tee shot.  So, next year I felt a little more prepared.  Obviously way tougher conditions, lots of wind, fiery golf course.  I just built the moment up way more than it was.  It's just a golf tournament in the end.  I tried to get my mind around it.   
As you play bigger tournaments, the huge help is just playing in the PGA Tour, you're playing in front of tons of people, big tournaments with the world's best players.  And sooner or later you get used to it.  And you're able to play golf in a big moment like this.   
 Q.  What are you supposed to be doing this week?  
DYLAN FRITTELLI: I'd be getting ready to play the Barbasol in Kentucky.  I had my flight, hotel, everything, I had to cancel that.  Got on the charter, had some champagne, caddie poured me some tequila shots and had some dinner.  I don't drink.  That was a crazy three or four drinks.  I felt pretty good.  Three or four hours of sleep, and an hour before landing I woke up.   
 Q.  Who is your caddie?  
DYLAN FRITTELLI: John Curtis.   
 Q.  Who is the sports psychologist?  
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Jay Brunza, B-r-u-n-z-a.   
 Q.  He's done some good things with Tiger?  
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Probably the most underrated guy.   
 Q.  Were you foggy when you were walking the course on Monday?  
DYLAN FRITTELLI: No, I was just tired, physically tired.  Actually I was like heading nodding while I was walking.  I need some micro sleeps out there.   
As I said, it was just to stay awake.  See a few shots from other guys and take it all in and get used to it.   
 Q.  You talk about being a kid again.  How do you switch your mindset to actually do that or is it the chicken and the egg and you hit a few shots and I'm having fun doing it?  
DYLAN FRITTELLI: It's a change to any sort of mindset or any sort of feeling, it takes active work.  You can't say, Hey, I'm going to be positive today.  It doesn't happen.  It's conscious work.   
I did well, in Detroit I played really well.  I didn't quite get the whole playful thing right.  Then felt really good in Minnesota.  Had some good golf then.  I putted really badly.  I worked on the putting extra hard going into John Deere.  And had two weeks of prep and practice and somehow fumbled my way into feeling that the whole week at John Deere.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT