MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 4, 2018
Dylan Frittelli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Give us a quick walk through on the hole‑in‑one. 
DYLAN FRITTELLI: I remember getting the number, it was 112, without the downhill, adjusted it was 106. I was thinking a little bit of wind from behind, so I just figured just a soft gap wedge would do it. As soon as I hit it I looked up in the sky and it was basically a straight line above the flag with the ball dead on line literally 90 percent of the time. And thankfully it came down and had good spin.

Q. You had a good feeling?
DYLAN FRITTELLI: I knew it was going to be a good shot, but I never, I never played the par‑3 course before. I didn't know the undulations or the slope or the break. So I guess it was‑‑ when it landed behind the flag and spun back I was just hoping it got close. It was an amazing experience.

Q. How did you feel with the crowd reaction?
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Well I was playing with Ben Crenshaw and that was probably the most exciting part of the day, obviously a Texas alum and a huge fan of his career.

Q. What did you guys talk about?
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Oh, just a bunch of stuff. Talked about Austin and growing up there. His daughter was following us taking pictures. No, it was just fun and the atmosphere is crazy, I've never seen anything like this. It doesn't even compare to rugby games or cricket matches or even‑‑ I mean, Texas football games are big, but it's different, it's more intimate here, it's more ‑‑ it's nice. It's pretty cool to be a part of. 

Q. Do you have any general thoughts on ‑‑ this is your first Masters, correct?
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Yeah, it is. I mean I'm excited to get going tomorrow. I've done a lot of hard work. I missed the cut last week in Houston, so I look at that as a blessing, I got here early, played 18 Sunday and 18 Monday and nine yesterday and nine this morning. And I'm feeling good. Physically I'm good and I'm hitting it well, so hopefully I can put some good numbers on the board and stay composed throughout the week.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT