WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 25, 2021
Dylan Frittelli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Can you talk about the finish?  Did it feel like a walk-off with the eagle?
 DYLAN FRITTELLI:   I don't know what it felt like, but I was just happy I didn't have to play 17 and 18.  Those two holes are extremely tricky with a few nerves so I was glad to get it done earlier.
 Q. When you look, do you consider the fact you are a little bit more familiar with this course than others as an advantage and have you been able to use that over the first two rounds?
 DYLAN FRITTELLI:   Yeah, for sure.  When you play a course, 10, 20, 30 times you get to know little spots you get to know pins, you get to know certain breaks on a green, and if you're a really serious player like I am, you remember those things.  So I definitely feel at home knowing the course that way, and certainly does aid me compared to most guys that have only seen it maybe three years at most.
 Q. This was a different wind compared to yesterday.
 DYLAN FRITTELLI:   Yeah, slightly different wind.  I've played the course probably in every possible wind direction, so no tee shots will seem strange to me.  I've pretty much seen everything.
 Q. Back and forth on that front nine, making the turn.  What changed on the back nine for you?
 DYLAN FRITTELLI:   I just settled down.  I was really edgy the front nine.  I'm not sure what it was, just started the round in maybe a bad mental space, a little irritated and edgy and couldn't really focus.  Then through the turn I just had a little talk to myself on the golf cart heading over to the 10th tee and said, just relax, try and get in that space that I was in yesterday, and I flowed, 10th hole made a great birdie there and then seemed to just flow from there through to the 16th when it ended.
 Q. Can you take us through what you saw on that putt on 16?
 DYLAN FRITTELLI:   Yeah, it was probably the easiest putt you'll get from 30 feet, just right-to-left, match the speed and the line anywhere from three to four cups of break, maybe five cups if you die it in, but I've been leaving a lot of putts short so I just told myself, into the grain, uphill, just give it a good hit, don't be a chicken and leave it a foot short and pray that he misses his putt, so glad to see it roll in the front edge.
 Q. When you come in as No. 64 and are now 2-0, what do you think you've proven in these two matches?
 DYLAN FRITTELLI:   Nothing, really.  I guess I've just proven that I can beat the guys that are in front of me.  I feel like no matter who it is as my opposition I can beat those guys.  Doesn't matter if you put No. 1 in the world or No. 63 in the world, I definitely back myself back in my own territory and somewhat of my home course.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT