NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 7, 2017
Dylan Frittelli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You're getting closer and closer to that next one.  This week would be a good one to choose?
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Yeah, for sure.  Obviously Rolex Series events are always at the top of my list or anybody's list on The European Tour.  Obviously home crowd advantage and home surroundings will definitely aid my attempt to win this week.
Q. The golf course, strong as ever?  Like what you're seeing at the moment?
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Yeah, I haven't played it in about ten years to be honest.  Amateur or junior tournament I played here was the last time.
Memories of the course, totally different.  It's a new golf course with my game having evolved over the last ten years.  A few lines off the tee boxes that I can remember, but besides that, it's a new golf course for me.
Q. Looking back on the year, you must be very happy.
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Yeah, it's been a good season so far.  Only got two events left, and not a lot can change, but the only way it can change is on the upside.
So if I do well the next two weeks, could set me up even better for next year and give me some extra time off next year maybe, we'll see.  But yeah, looking forward to the rest of the season and 2018 coming up now.
Q. Always such an iconic event for the South Africans, and it been a long time since a South African has won it.  You've got some memories watching it, I'm sure.
DYLAN FRITTELLI: I came up here when I was 15, 16, when I finally made the decision to focus solely on golf.
I can remember a few of the players here.  I watched Luke Donald play a practice round and Justin Rose was walking around with a couple wedges.  It's kind of funny to remember ten years ago.  He reminded me when we played on Saturday, he says, "How old you?"
"I'm 27."
"Oh, ten years older."  He's ten years older than me.  I remember that, yeah, it was ten years ago that I saw him play in Sun City.
Huge week.  I'm going to just try to take it easy and stay out of the limelight and get some work done and just take it as another tournament week.  But I've got a lot of family coming up and my sister is here already with my nephew, so we've had a bit of fun around the resort.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT