TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 5, 2017
Dylan Frittelli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Final round 64 is going to come up just short but before we get to that ending, can you talk about what got into you on the front nine?  Three chip-ins through four holes, have you ever done anything like that before?
DYLAN FRITTELLI: No, I haven't.  I came close yesterday.  I had two chip-ins yesterday.  I don't know, something's clicking right in my short game.  I felt really confident over all of those chips.  I'm glad they got me in contention today and seemed to play pretty well under pressure.
Q. You've been in this situation before; immediately go back to 2012 and the NCAAs when you sank that big putt.  Were the emotions similar when you had to putt on 18 to move into a tie for the lead?
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Similar.  I think there was a lot more emotion and drive coming at Riviera in the NCAA Champs.  I was a little more calm and collected today, having been in a similar experience earlier in the year in China and having won.
I managed to calm myself down well.  But having that rivalry and pride for university is obviously way bigger than playing for yourself.
Q. You finish just behind Justin, but how much momentum does this give you going into the last two Race to Dubai events?
DYLAN FRITTELLI: It's huge.  I mean, I was really looking at the last three events to try and peek inside the top 30 in the rankings.  Not sure where this will put me now, but definitely inside that top 30 and looking at two more big events that could push my way into the Top-10 hopefully.
Q. That was an extraordinary front nine from you today.  Five birdies in a row and three chip-ins.  You must have thought, why bother with the putter?
DYLAN FRITTELLI: I didn't even realise it was a 29.  I signed my card now and I thought, 29.  Didn't know while I was playing.
Great performance on the front nine that got me into contention, and played pretty well through the back nine.  Although a few putts slipped by, I'm still proud of the way I finished.
Q. That overnight rain obviously changed things.  How much did it slow the greens down out there?
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Actually it made them softer but it didn't slow them down.  I think they gave them a roll this morning and they were really, really glassy.  May have picked up a bit of pace after yesterday.
But yeah, the condition was wonderful and those conditions were probably in part due to that soft green condition.
Q. Just coming up a shot shy, 64 on the final day.  It's been a fantastic week for you.
DYLAN FRITTELLI: For sure.  I played with Justin yesterday and he played amazing golf.  For me it was wonderful to be out there with him.  Strikes it really well.  I mean, great guy, chatted between shots.  It was so much fun being out there.  He's a worthy winner.  Yesterday he played the socks off of me, so congrats to him.
Q. First time you've managed to make the cut in a Rolex Series event this year.  What's been the difference this week to the previous events, do you think?
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Just a bit of focus.  I think the Rolex Series events in the middle of the year, I was coming off a long streak, four or five tournaments in six weeks and struggled to play a bit of links golf, too.  I don't have much experience under those conditions.
But I knew sort of what to do around here.  Got some pine straw, pine trees and good, green grass.  Just hit it close and try to make the putts.
Q. Obviously off to your home country for Nedbank and Dubai.  Excited to end the season now taking some form, as well?
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Yeah, exactly.  I took two weeks off before this.  I played pretty well this week.  It seems to be a good friend for me to take some time off and keep it rolling to South Africa and hopefully to Dubai and play well next week in front of the home crowd.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT