MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2018
Dylan Frittelli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DYLAN FRITTELLI: I survived.   
   
 Q. Not the best way to finish.   
DYLAN FRITTELLI: No, it was a little struggle there the last two holes, but I did well through the back nine. 10, 11, 12 was good. 13 sadly came up short in the water, but got up‑and‑down for par ‑‑ and actually both par‑5s on the back nine I got up‑and‑down for par. It's not what you want to be doing around here, but I guess it was a sign of my resilience at least.   
   
 Q. How do you feel the whole day and keeping your emotions in check and everything?  
DYLAN FRITTELLI: That was okay. I did well with that. I didn't feel too many nerves, even off the first tee, I hit a good one there. Trying to run through, definitely that 6 on 4 was a little hair raising.  
   
 Q. Were you in the bunker?  
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Yeah, I just tried to get a bit aggressive from the up slope and it went over the back. Made a bit of a meal of it from there. But I was fine. I kept my calm there, thankfully, and parred the next few holes and birdied 8. I thought I had some optimism on the back nine actually, I got back to 1‑over after playing 12, made a birdie there, and thinking, hey, I can make some birdies coming in and an under par round would be a good start to the tournament. But sadly I went the other way.   
   
 Q. How about your birdie on 8?  
DYLAN FRITTELLI: 8, yeah.   
   
 Q. How long was your putt there?  
DYLAN FRITTELLI: It was about a 13‑footer, 14‑footer probably. Right‑to‑left up the hill and read it perfectly and then rolled down the middle there.  
   
 Q. How do you feel the course played?  
DYLAN FRITTELLI: It played fair. I think that's a good way to describe it. It wasn't too difficult, the pins are fair, it was pretty benign conditions with the wind. I guess if they knew the forecast was going to be this good they probably would have set it up a little tougher, I think some guys out there may go, 5‑, 6‑under today. But no, it was a good test. I really enjoyed it. Totally different to the practice rounds. Obviously it firms up a lot and the fairways became quicker and greens are definitely traveling a foot or two faster than they were yesterday.   
   
 Q. What do you feel like you got to shoot tomorrow to play on the weekend?  
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Just something under par. 2, 3‑under would be nice. Just want to get off to a good start. I did that today through three holes but that triple there set me back and I had to change my mindset and try to make a few birdies on the last few holes. You don't want to be pushing through the middle of a round, I would rather just let it come to me and hit a lot of greens, that's what you got to do on this golf course.  
   
 Q. What do you do the rest of the day?  
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Go practice. Two, two and a half hours of practice and then put my feet up. I may do a work out after that as well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT