WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 24, 2021
Dylan Frittelli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Dylan, just assess your play and your first match.
 DYLAN FRITTELLI:   I was happy with everything maybe besides the 8th hole.  Made a bogey there.  But everything else was pretty seamless, and really proud of the way I played today.
 Q. When you were here at UT, how much did you play this golf course?  Did you play it a decent amount?
 DYLAN FRITTELLI:   The first few years I didn't play too much.  We were probably the 20th or 30th ranked team in the country, and I guess the members didn't really think fondly of us, but then as we moved up the rankings, my senior year we were ranked No. 1, and seemed to get a lot more invitations when we were in that position.  But yeah, it was pretty much I'd say twice a month when I was a senior and maybe once a semester my first year.
 Q. You've been in the United States long enough to understand the reference, but do you feel like a 64 seed this week?  Or is that kind of silly when it comes to professional golf?
 DYLAN FRITTELLI:   No, there's no way.  If you had checked the betting odds, if those guys were doing their homework, I would figure they would put me in the top half, just having that sort of experience, hometown, sleeping in my own bed.  I think that counts a lot.  I'm not going to spout too much, but I definitely think it's a huge advantage that at least puts me in the top half of the field.
 Q. Does it feel good playing in front of the hometown fans?
 DYLAN FRITTELLI:   Yeah, for sure.  I had a small crew out there.  My best friend Travis was out there and a few other friends, but it's just nice to have those routines with falling out of bed, riding in the car.  It's perfect; the roads I know, I can cut in and out of traffic and get to the course really quickly because I know the roads.  It just feels really familiar right now.
 Q. What roads are those?
 DYLAN FRITTELLI:   2222.  I just hop on 2222 from my place and one left turn on 360 and I'm pretty much at the golf course.
 Q. What is it, about 20 minutes?
 DYLAN FRITTELLI:   Not even, 15 minutes.
 Q. Wow, that's as impressive as your round.
 DYLAN FRITTELLI:   Yeah, UT Golf Club is about a 20- to 25-minute drive, and this is a 15-minute drive no traffic.
 Q. You're not exactly intimidated when you came here the way you dispatched Tony.  What does that do for your confidence?
 DYLAN FRITTELLI:   I mean, it's huge.  Tony obviously didn't play well today.  That wasn't a true reflection on his game.  He wasn't on his game by any means, but I'd like to think if he did play well I still would have been competitive and maybe been 1- or 2-up going down the final few holes.
 Q. What were some of your best holes today?
 DYLAN FRITTELLI:   Thinking back, I think -- I can't even -- to try and think of holes I played well.  Through the turn there, 8 was kind of a shock making bogey there with a 7-iron into the green and I thought, come on, just bring it home.  Hit a good iron shot on 9, just put it in the middle of the green and put it in play.  And then 10 I hit a great wedge shot in to about eight feet that put the pressure on him, and that almost -- I wouldn't say sealed the match but it really put the pressure on to where he had to go for shots and try and change his game plan.
 Q. How many bogeys did you have today?
 DYLAN FRITTELLI:   I had one bogey.
 Q. Did you win that one?
 DYLAN FRITTELLI:   No, I tied it.  Lucky I got away -- Tony had about an eight-footer for par and he just missed it.
 Q. How do you see your chances now with the draw like it is?
 DYLAN FRITTELLI:   I like it.  I've told a lot of people if I can get through Tony with a win, I think I'm definitely the favorite in the group.  I don't know Will Zalatoris at all.  I'm sure he's a very good player.  I've not played with him, but I've seen some amazing results that he's put up, and then I've played a bit with Jason Kokrak so I know what he's about.  I think I back myself against anyone in the field here.  Once we get some more fans involved, it should aid me even more, having that local crowd getting behind me.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT