THE 148TH OPEN
July 19, 2019
Dylan Frittelli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Not the finish you would have hoped for today.
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Yeah, for sure, double bogey finish is never good.
I look up at the leaderboard and I'm three shots back in a major going into the weekend, barring some of the low scores out there.  It's a pretty good spot to be, right.
Q. Before the last two holes, you were playing great, so you must be happy with that?
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Yeah, I had 16 holes of pretty much pristine golf.  Got up and down a few times, made some good birdies, and just felt super comfortable out there.
The first time I felt uncomfortable was on the 17th tee box, and couldn't really get over that tee shot with a clear picture in my head, and hit a bad one.
But I'll try and forget about that and focus on the first 16 holes.
Q. Talk about your round today.
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Great round.  Top performance there with a couple to go.  Obviously two dropped shots at the end, or three dropped shots over two holes, so not great.
It was amazing golf.  I felt in control again.  If I can replicate that mindset that I had the first two rounds and be super comfortable out there and hit the ball the way I can, I definitely think I can contend.
Looking at that leaderboard, there's some first-time major winners that are up there.  I haven't really scanned the whole leaderboard, but there don't seem to be too many wily old cats leading the tournament.  So I'm in that group, as well.  Haven't won.  Haven't really been in contention in a major.
So hopefully the good play yesterday and today will bode well for the weekend.
Q. You've dreamed of being in this position, obviously, midway through a major.  Your thoughts right now.
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Yeah, just trying to get the best out of my game right now.  I'm obviously coming off hot last week at the John Deere.
Just trying to replicate last week.  Keep it simple.  Hit the fairway, hit the green, not short side myself, not hit it in the long stuff, just make it as easy as I can.
I definitely think my mindset the way I am right now is probably way clearer or way more positive and happy than everyone else out here.  Some guys have been out here for a week already and they've had the bad weather and they've struggled to I guess get some sleep.  But for me, I'm trying to catch up because of the time zones.  I can focus on that.  And just let the game take care of itself.
Q. Talk about what the conditions were like today.  It was a few different seasons I guess you had.
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Yeah, it was tough.  I was really proud of the way I played in the rain today.  Typically wearing the sunglasses you get little specks of rain on it and it tends to irritate me, I have to take them off and clean them all the time.
But I just managed to let that aside and not let that detract from anything.  I was able to see some really clear tee shots in the rain.  I hit some.
Q. Your thoughts?  You want that first major?
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Yeah, for sure.  I mean, it's kind of crazy even thinking about it.  It hasn't crossed my mind at all.
So I'm going to give tomorrow a go.  If I can hang around the lead tomorrow, I'll put my head down and do the same on Sunday, and look up at the leaderboard with a few holes to go on Sunday and if I'm in contention, you know I'm going to be gunning for it.
Q. Could you tell things were going good from the start today?  Sometimes you know in the middle, sometimes towards the end.  But did you know from the start that this was a good round for you?
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Yeah, sure.  A good round until it goes south.  So it's definitely a good feeling when I step on any golf course right now.  The last two weeks, three weeks, I felt comfortable, I felt good.
My mental aspect has really changed over the last few weeks.  I know in a general sense I'm swinging well and playing well.  As long as I can stay focused over each individual shot it's going to be a good day.  It's going to have a good outcome.
People talk about being in the zone and all that stuff.  I'm feeling way more present, way less analytical, way more free, way more childlike and trying to enjoy the moment, which I did today.  I made that double and still managed to smile afterwards, which is tough for most guys.
Q. You've brought this up so many times, I'm so tempted to ask you, what has changed in your mental outlook?  You're childlike today, you're having fun.  Has something happened, has something triggered that, did you talk with someone?
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Just chats with my sports psychologist, really, and I guess my backup caddie and a few friends just trying to get the most out of my game.  I was stressed trying to keep a card in America for the last month or two and I dwelled on that too much.  Just tried to simplify it and not focus on those negative aspects.
The sports psychologist said, Hey, just go out there and have fun.  Think back to when you were a kid putting on the putting green when you were 12 or 13 years old and you made everything, and just think of that.  It sounds simple to do, but it's tough to train yourself out of it.
You get in these big moments with crowds and leaderboards, and you feel a certain way.  If you keep feeling that certain way that replicates itself over time.  I managed to snap myself out of those negative thoughts and feeling pressure.
I'm sure I'll feel the pressure this weekend for sure.  The crowds will be big and the weather will come in, too, I'm sure.  I'm proud of the way I'm handling it now and hopefully go chill.  Maybe go for a surf tomorrow morning.  I don't know what it's like but I may head out there just to clear my head.
Q. Do you do a visualization like when you're about to do a shot and sometimes you're feeling a little tight, you take a step back and start thinking?
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Yeah, I needed that on 17.  I really didn't dwell on the negative thoughts or I guess the distraction that I had on that tee shot.  I didn't know where to hit it.  I didn't know what the fairway looked like over the hill.  I didn't play that hole in practice.  And I didn't really note it yesterday because we weren't getting to the downslope.
I was really eager to see what was down the hill.  I backed off the tee shot a couple of times.  I should have just centered myself, pictured the happy place, calmed down, and hit a better tee shot.
Q. You can do that tomorrow?
DYLAN FRITTELLI: Tomorrow, exactly.  I'll learn from this.  I'll feel those feelings tomorrow and hopefully get the reminder to focus.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT