BUICK OPEN
August 2, 2003
Carl Paulson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR: Thank you, Carl.  Great round today.  You're playing early tomorrow.

CARL PAULSON: Well, yeah, like I was telling the guys out there, you spend seven weeks on the road, and it's been a crazy year for me, and this is a nice change of pace.

MODERATOR:  Questions? 


Q.  The change we have had because of the weather, does that affect you any way or another?

CARL PAULSON: With the tee times? 


Q.  Yes.

CARL PAULSON: It doesn't matter.  There's one thing we cannot control, and that's the weather.  We need to start early so we have a good chance of finishing, and if the weather's bad, we need to get as many holes as we can in so we can finish early Monday morning or whatever they decide to do.  There is nothing you can do about that.  It doesn't change anything with me.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

CARL PAULSON: Well, it was a perfect day.  The wind's not blowing too hard.  The par 5s are reachable, and the greens are still receptive.  There is going to be a lot of good scores when that happens.


Q.  Can we expect that tomorrow morning, or will it change that?

CARL PAULSON: Well, I don't think we're going to put any water on the course tonight.  Friday it started firming up pretty nicely until we got the rain, so it should firm up tomorrow.  Then again, who knows what's going to happen with this weather.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

CARL PAULSON: The Players Championship two years ago.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

CARL PAULSON: It's kind of nice that I'm this tired, because I really don't have one.  I'm just going, finding my ball and hitting it, trying to make every putt I've got.  Let's see what happens.  Last week I hit the ball much better than I hit it this week.  Sometimes it's unexplainable.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

CARL PAULSON: I'm just working really hard.  My playing was a little out of whack, which was a little unusual for me.  I was just hitting it so bad.  I played a little more conservatively with my irons and not trying to make every shot from the fairway.  Out here on tour, if you short-side yourself, you're going to make bogeys.  I'm trying to cut down on some of the mistakes and wait until I start hitting it better.

MODERATOR:  Carl, can we go through your birdies. 

(Score card done.)

MODERATOR:  Any more questions?  Thank you. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT