THE 147TH OPEN
July 21, 2018
Sean Crocker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Did you think you'd hit as many drivers as you would out there today?  Is that something you just kind of got comfortable with?
SEAN CROCKER: Didn't think I was going to hit this many drivers, not one bit.  I might have hit two in the practise round, and just with the way the winds changed and the tees moved up a bit, it's made those bunkers carriable, so you just take them out of play, and it's been working a bit.
Q. Was the highlight on 11 when you drove the green?  I mean, you didn't make the eagle putt.
SEAN CROCKER: Yeah, I was close on the first day to the greenside bunker.  It's nice making an easy birdie out here, so that was nice.
Q. What does it mean to have not only your parents and friends and family -- I understand your best friend from high school is here as well, kind of a surprise -- but a bunch of Zimbabweans and people out here.  What does that mean to you?
SEAN CROCKER: It's pretty cool to have them on this big of a stage.  Most of the time since I've turned pro, it's been just myself and my agent.  It's been nice to have some friends and my girlfriend is out here.  It's nice to just chill and get your mind off golf after the rounds.
Q. Has it been tough?  Obviously, Europe has been a lot of fun.  I talked to your dad a little bit.  But as you said, it's been lonely out there.  So what's been the most difficult part of pro golf so far out here?
SEAN CROCKER: I took a little different route than a lot of the Americans coming over here.  It's just the travel.  I don't think the guys out there that I played college golf with know how easy they have it playing on the Web.com or PGA, because playing in Europe and Challenge Tour, it's tough.  The flights aren't easy.  The travel's not easy.  Getting from A to B is not easy.  It's a lot different than the Web.com.
Q. So you're down in Jupiter now, right?
SEAN CROCKER: West Palm Beach, so close.
Q. Has Sam moved in yet?
SEAN CROCKER: I think we're going to do something later in the year and see how it goes and get a couple of boys and have a nice place.
Q. Obviously, it's tough not having any status starting your pro career out here.  How you do tomorrow could have a big influence on your future in golf.  How do you handle that pressure tomorrow?
SEAN CROCKER: I don't really think of it.  It's in the back of my mind knowing, if I have a good finish, I could lock up my card for Europe, but it's just one of those things that, if I go out and do what I need to do and play good golf, if it happens.  If not, we go to Austria next week and play golf.
Q. Where did you get your fearlessness from?
SEAN CROCKER: Fearlessness or cockiness.
Q. It's not cockiness, it's fearlessness.
SEAN CROCKER: I don't know.  I've just always had that kind of belief that I can just do what I need to do.  I take the shot at all times.  Sometimes it hurts me.  It's been hurting me the last couple of weeks because I haven't been hitting the ball that well, but it doesn't change how I look at myself or my game because, if I hit a bad shot -- it's one of those things, you're going to hit bad shots.  I can believe I'm going to hit it and just pull it off one out of ten when I need it.  Great.  If not, get up and down and walk off.
Q. Speaking of fearless, I understand your dad wasn't a fan of tattoos.  You got a couple, and then he actually helped you get the big one.
SEAN CROCKER: The big one, yeah.
Q. What was that like when he found out?
SEAN CROCKER: I don't think he talked to me the first two weeks, and the first two tattoos were of my mom and dad.  I kind of always had a likeness to tattoos.  I kind of went behind their back and got the first one when I was getting my SC money -- what's it called?
Q. Allowance.
SEAN CROCKER: My allowance.  I saved up a bit and got the first two, and I showed my mom and she kind of laughed.
Q. What were the words?  I understand it was their initials.
SEAN CROCKER: It's just their initials and a word describing them, so my mom is "caring" and my dad is "resilient" because he bends but never breaks with me.  We've got a few more additions.
Q. What does it say underneath the Africa and the lion?
SEAN CROCKER: Shumba, kumba, mukati (phonetic).  "The lion roars from within."
Q. What language is that?
SEAN CROCKER: Shona.
Q. And the little Simba belt buckle?
SEAN CROCKER: I've got that too on the side here.
Q. I don't think I've ever heard that nickname before, which is surprising considering how much I've covered you the last few years.
SEAN CROCKER: It's kind of more like my friends, in between family and that stuff.  I think I put it on myself more.
Q. What's it mean to you?
SEAN CROCKER: The first time I heard it was in a Joey Badass song, "Young Simba waiting to be King."  It kind of stuck with me because I've always loved Lion King.
Q. Who doesn't, right?
SEAN CROCKER: And the monkey, when he draws a little Simba, it's cool.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT