SALTIRE ENERGY PAUL LAWRIE MATCH PLAY
July 31, 2015
Johan Carlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What are your thoughts on a nice victory over the top seed?  
JOHAN CARLSSON: Yeah, that was good.  I knew it was going to be a tough day today meeting James.  He's been playing well for a while.  So I just went out there and still tried to focus on my game.   
But I know that it had to be pretty good today in order to beat him, which he showed on the last.  I thought I had him in a box, I would say, there when I played really well.  I was 5-up, but then he came back with some fantastic shots, a couple birdies and almost made birdie on 17, as well.  If you let a little bit to him, he'll take it all.  That's why I was happy to have a chip and a one putt on the last.   
 Q.  Is the heart racing when somebody is coming back at you and you've been in control?  
JOHAN CARLSSON: I was calm the entire day pretty.  I had a pretty good start I think.  I just kept going and was playing well and I was very calm.  Then I had a 5-footer for the win that I missed.  But I wasn't expecting him to make that long putt that he made.   
So I was kind of standing there feel pretty good about myself and all of a sudden, whoa, did he make that putt.  All of a sudden it was game on again, so I had to get back in the game, and took me a couple of holes, but I'm happy.   
 Q.  Essentially that's the nature of match play.  Do you like it?  Do you relish this format?  
JOHAN CARLSSON: I love it.  Especially since we play stroke-play all the time, and when you get a match-play tournament, it becomes very special.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on the next round?  You're playing Robert Karlsson?  
JOHAN CARLSSON: He was telling me that before.  That's actually real fun in one way, but in another way, it's not as fun.  I'll definitely go out there and give him a good match.   
 Q.  I take it you know him reasonably well at least?  
JOHAN CARLSSON: I do.   
 Q.  And you'd have seen him growing up, as well.  
JOHAN CARLSSON: He was going back -- five years or so, he was someone I looked up to and still look up to.  He's a great player.  He was up there on the Tour doing well and here I am meeting him in a match play.  It's amazing how quick things can change.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT