U.S. OPEN
September 6, 2010
Jurgen Melzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. FEDERER/J. Melzer
  6-3, 7-6, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Chicago Bulls (referring to his hat). 
 JURGEN MELZER: I like the hat. I like red. 

 Q. Talk about Federer today. You also met him at Wimbledon. How is this different?
 JURGEN MELZER: It was a completely different match today. I believe that I can win. I think everybody who saw that match saw how close it was. 
 It's a pity that I didn't win at least one set. I think I deserved the second set. I think I was the more dangerous player. I had breakpoints. He didn't have any. You couldn't be more lucky in a tiebreaker than he was in this tiebreaker. 
 Well, unfortunately I didn't win a set. But I can learn from the experience. First match I played him, I had no chance. Today I had my chances, I didn't take them. Hopefully in the third match I will take my chances.

 Q. Your friend Petzschner said the same thing against Djokovic as far as taking chances. Have you been in touch with him? 
 JURGEN MELZER: Well, yeah, we're always in touch because we're good friends. But nothing particular in the last couple of days. 

 Q. You were talking about the tiebreaker. I saw obviously that one ball. 
 JURGEN MELZER: One or two or three? 

 Q. The one at 4-All was especially painful. You yelled after the set. I don't know if you can tell us what you were thinking. 
 JURGEN MELZER: I wasn't happy with my fortune. Let's put it that way. 

 Q. How do you get it in your mind to keep going after that set?
 JURGEN MELZER: Well, I said, I'm playing great tennis. I mean, I came back once against Djokovic in the French Open. It's a big stage here. I mean, would be stupid to go out there and not try anymore. 
 So I really fought hard. I broke him in the opening game of the second set. I had troubles holding serve against the wind. I mean, still my serve wasn't spot on against the wind, and you need that. So that's the thing I could criticize about my game today. My service against the wind was not good enough. 

 Q. As far as Federer and you played a lot as juniors, meeting at the age of 29, there's kind of a big gap between your juniors and pro matches. Can you comment after playing him two straight times? 
 JURGEN MELZER: Yeah, hopefully I'll play him another two times soon. That would mean I will get my chances to play even better than today.

 Q. What did he say at the net?
 JURGEN MELZER: He was sorry for the second-set tiebreaker. 

 Q. You're wearing the cap of the Chicago Bulls. Are you a fan of this team? 
 JURGEN MELZER: No. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT