BARCLAYS DUBAI TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
February 25, 2010
Jurgen Melzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. MELZER/M. Cilic
  7-6, 7-5

 Q. So, you were down 4-1. How did you turn it around? 
 JURGEN MELZER: Well, to be honest, I think I was a little lucky to hold serve at 4-1. He played really fantastic, I think, from when he just started the match. It's very hard hitting. I could not find my length in the game. I was playing too short, and no spin, no height in my shots. 
 After that I mixed it up a little bit. Played a little serve-and-volley. Served better, and I took the chance to get back into the game, and I think then it was a real match.

 Q. It was a day when tactics came into play quite a lot. You had to adjust and alter your approach on several occasions out there, didn't you?
 JURGEN MELZER: Yeah, well, if you play a guy like Marin, if he starts to hit the ball clean on the racquet, you've got to do something or you'll go down like 1 and 2. He's not going to start to miss, so... 
 I was lucky, as I said, to break back and just get a tight match. Because then it's not so easy to go for every shot. I changed a little bit the spin, and also on the return gave him different looks. Like staying back, coming in. Well, just from my side do, I mean, if you consider those conditions, it was a very good match.

 Q. Did Zagreb help? 
 JURGEN MELZER: I think Vienna helped more. Knowing being able to beat him in a really important match, it helped more than Zagreb. In Zagreb, it was actually disappointing because I had a lot of chances in the first set. I was a break up in the tiebreak, and lost a set and he won the tournament. So it was a missed opportunity. And I said to myself today, if I get the chance I'm not going to let it go, and I did it.

 Q. You said on the courts one of the best wins of your career? 
 JURGEN MELZER: Well, I have never reached -- well, the 500s it's only existing for one-and-a-half years now. But I haven't been in this semis. And it's very important to beat the good guys if you want to raise your game and raise your ranking. And I did this week, and hopefully there is still more to go.

 Q. Well, with Federer, Murray, and now Cilic, all out of the top half of the draw, it's wide open for you to go all the way now, isn't it? 
 JURGEN MELZER: Well, certainly one more match. It's either with Tipsarevic. I had a tough battle in Vienna. I won it. Against Youzhny, I think it's an even record, so I have my chances. And if I'm playing like that, why not? Well, if I play like this, the other guy has to play a really good match and then he just deserves to win.

 Q. So you're confident then? 
 JURGEN MELZER: Well, of course, I think if you win three matches in two sets and beating Robredo and Cilic back-to-back, you have to be confident. I'm really looking forward. I'm enjoying this week here and there's nothing to it.

 Q. Also we heard on the TV interview that the possibility of you getting a career-high ranking on this tournament? 
 JURGEN MELZER: To be honest, I haven't thought about that until he mentioned it. I didn't even know. And well, if it is like that, it's great. But it's more important to be in the semis and having a chance to win tournaments. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT