PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 29, 2009
Julian Knowle
Jurgen Melzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







KNOWLE-MELZER/Soares-Ullyett
  6-4, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. It's been a couple of years since you last won a title. How do you feel? 
 JULIAN KNOWLE: Well, we feel great, obviously, because, as Jurgen mentioned in his speech on court, we were in a lot of doubles finals, and we lost with match points. We had some heartbreakers. And finally to get through one and win the whole thing, it's a great feeling, especially for a Grand Slam coming up. It gives us a lot of confidence. 

 Q. Just run through your thoughts on the match today. 
 JURGEN MELZER: Well, it was a tough day because we've been waiting all day long, sitting in the players lounge, never knowing when we actually going to play or where we going to play, indoors, outdoors. There was this little rain all the time. 
 But I think we started well in the match, and that was the key point. We kind of stepped it up from the beginning and got on top of them, holding our serves pretty easily in the second set, but couldn't convert on the breakpoints we had. But played a really solid tiebreaker. 
 I think we deserved to win this title. As Julian said, we had a lot of heartbreaking matches that we lost over the year. Finally we got one together. It feels great. 

 Q. Does it feel like there's a monkey off your backs now and it gives you some sort of impetus going on to the US Open and qualifying for London at the end of the year? 
 JURGEN MELZER: It's a long way for us to London. We've really struggled from the beginning of the year. But it gives us a lot of confidence. It's always nice winning a title. It helps a lot for the next tournaments that are coming and for the rest of the season. Who knows, if we play really well, London might happen. 

 Q. Julian, what are your expectations now for the US Open? 
 JULIAN KNOWLE: Well, it's tough when you're not seeded. Unfortunately, we're not seeded because, as Jurgen mentioned, we were struggling through pretty much the whole year. And then it depends a little bit of course on the draw. 
 I would say there are three teams you don't want to play in the early stage. But I think if we play like this, the rest of the draw is pretty open. Even the top teams, we can challenge of course. 
 But we hope that we keep this form and then see what happens. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT