DAVIS CUP FIRST ROUND: USA v AUSTRIA
February 8, 2008
Jurgen Melzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:  Questions.   
  
  Q.  Sorry if you've already answered this, but it seemed like the court really helped you today.  I don't think you had taken a set from Roddick, and today you were right there with him.   
 JURGEN MELZER:  Well, of course the court helped.  That's why we pick it like this.  Andy and me, we played close sets before as well.  Like I think two tiebreakers.  I was break up before but I just couldn't hold serve, which is due to his return, good return game.   
 But, well, today it seemed that at the end of the fourth set he was very frustrated, like he didn't know where to serve anymore.  Every time I had the racquet on the ball I played a good return.  I was taking advantage of his second serve, and that's what gave him a lot of pressure.   
 On the other hand, the only thing that I can really say about my game that was bad today was my serve.  I could not produce enough pressure with him.  He had pressure on his service games, but he always knew that there was chances that he could break back?   
  
  Q.  He seemed frustrated with the surface.  Did you have problems with it also?   
 JURGEN MELZER:  Well, I mean, we picked it, but of course there were a lot of bad bounces, especially at the end.  Sometimes the ball was just bouncing in your face or didn't bounce at all.  This has happened in quite important moments as well, in his way and in my way.   
 But at the end I think it balanced out.  Well, of course it was an advantage.   
  
  Q.  Do you think you can do one better against Blake?  Do you feel you have a good chance?   
 JURGEN MELZER:  Well, if it comes to a 2-All game the last match, of course.  James basically plays bounce and hit.  It's tough to do that on that court.  I'm going to watch now how he like makes up with the court and how he's going to play the rallies.   
 I mean, if he wants to step in all the time he's going to have some problems.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT