MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 12, 2007
Jurgen Melzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Jurgen, pulling out must be disappointing.  What's the problem?   
 JURGEN MELZER:  Of course it's disappointing.  I mean, I have played a great week so far, and over the last night I just felt sick, like really sick.  I had some kind of stomach virus.  I think I picked up something probably from the food last night.  Maybe sushi wasn't that smart.  So I've been throwing up in the morning and really feeling bad.  So I tried with an IV, but it's just not working.  It's really disappointing.   
  
  Q.  So you've had an IV in your arm to try and remedy the problem.  Where did you eat?   
 JURGEN MELZER:  I don't know, I ate at a Darling Harbour sushi place.  I have no idea.  I hope it's just from the sushi and it's not a real bad virus because I want to get ready for next week.   
  
  Q.  You've obviously seen a doctor.  What is the doctor saying?   
 JURGEN MELZER:  He says that it looks like a virus, and there's not much he can do.  I don't have any stomach cramps or something, I just have really -- I feel bad in the stomach and I feel weak and hope it gets better soon.   
  
  Q.  Some good results this week, Santoro, Guccione as well as others.  It must be terribly disappointing considering last year you got to the second round here and now all the way through to the semifinals.   
 JURGEN MELZER:  Of course.  I haven't really played great tennis here, especially last day against Berdych it was a great match, winning in two straight sets playing that well.  He didn't have any break points.  That was like the way I want to play.  That's the way you want to play before a Grand Slam, and of course coming here being in the semifinals not far to win the tournament, and in the shape I am I think I could have had a shot at it.  Well, that's life and you have to move on.   
  
  Q.  Do you think you'll be ready for Melbourne?   
 JURGEN MELZER:  I doubt it at the moment because I really don't feel good.  But I hope it doesn't last.   
  
  Q.  So you hope you're going to be ready for Melbourne but at the moment there's no way you could start?   
 JURGEN MELZER:  Well, at the moment there's no way I could play.  Well, I hope that somebody from upstairs looks down on me and gets me ready for Monday or Tuesday.   
  
  Q.  Have you suffered from this before?   
 JURGEN MELZER:  Well, not really like this.  I mean, of course you have had stomach viruses in your life, but like this I've never been suffering.  Always there is a first time.   
  
  Q.  Do you think the heat has had anything to do with it?   
 JURGEN MELZER:  I didn't think so because like I felt great yesterday last afternoon.  It was hot, but on the court I felt really good, and after the match I still felt great.  It was just after dinner, so I hope it's from the sushi.   
  
  Q.  You hope it's from the sushi, so you will be heading to Melbourne then?   
 JURGEN MELZER:  Of course, tomorrow morning.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT