MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 11, 2007
Jurgen Melzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Good win for you today.  How do you feel you're playing going into the Australian Open?   
 JURGEN MELZER:  Well, I think I'm starting to play like I did at the end of the last season, my best tennis again, and I'm feeling the ball.  It's always tough in the beginning of the year.  I had a horrible first week in Doha.  Conditions were hard, windy, cold.   
 Coming here it was not easy to adapt, but I did very well, and I like I way I played right now.  Of course it's always nice to get a couple of wins under your belt before a Grand Slam, and that's all you need.   
  
  Q.  Berdych really struggled today.  Did you expect it to be that easy?   
 JURGEN MELZER:  No, of course not because last time he really killed me.  We played in Montreal two years ago, and he just hit the heck out of the ball.   
 I beat him the same year in Adelaide at the beginning of the year so I knew I had to change a little bit of game plan and try to have good depth on the court.  I did, and it's tough for him to hit winners if the ball is long, and so I really think I played that well to force him to the errors.   
  
  Q.  You served very well; he was framing everything that you kicked out to his forehand.   
 JURGEN MELZER:  I mean, I've known Tomas for a really long time.  His backhand is the better shot, no doubt about it.  A lefty kick, they don't return a lot of lefty kicks, and mine is not that bad bouncing out wide.  He struggled with this one, and of course I used it as often as I could and tried to mix things up a little bit, especially on the important points, and it worked out well.   
  
  Q.  Do you think your game suits Rebound Ace?   
 JURGEN MELZER:  I like -- I mean, if you play like this, of course you have to say you like the surface.  I like if the bounce is a little bit higher.  I like to move on it.  I think -- I have no doubts about the court.  It's nice, it's not too hard, it's fine.   
  
  Q.  You didn't have a very good start to the year last year, did you?   
 JURGEN MELZER:  I had a horrible start.  I won one match until Houston, in April, so it's nice to be sitting here and having already a better start than last year and taking some of the pressure off.  I played well at the end of the season, so I want to continue like this, and it looks like I'm doing it.   
  
  Q.  Did you do more in the off-season to be ready at the start of the season?   
 JURGEN MELZER:  Last year was kind of a mental thing.  I mean, here in Australia it was like really windy and I struggled with my timing and I lost my confidence, and then it was tough to get it back, had a couple of tough draws.  And if you're on a losing streak, like six, seven matches, then it's always tough to bounce back.   
 There's not really much you can change about it.  I have prepared well.  I did a lot of workout, I've been running a lot, and so it's -- basically I'm fit, and that's the most important thing, didn't have any injuries, no colds, no nothing, it's fine.  Of course looking forward to the season.  If you start like this, nothing better can happen.   
  
  Q.  Did you prepare in the heat somewhere?   
 JURGEN MELZER:  No.  I love home too much to.  But the good thing was, or the bad thing, we had no snow so I could run outdoors and do a lot of things outdoors.  We had about 10, 15 degrees, which was nice.  Couldn't play tennis outdoors, but still, you can run and do some physical things outdoors.  That's what helped me a lot because if you have to go on the running belt then it's going to get really boring.  Like this was fine, and as I said, if you don't have the snow or something, it's fine to be outdoors and get no colds.   
  
  Q.  That's the benefit of global warming.   
 JURGEN MELZER:  Yeah, if you call it a benefit.   
  
  Q.  I imagine your skiers haven't been so happy?   
 JURGEN MELZER:  No, because we had one invitation tournament at a skiing resort that takes place every year, and the first time we had absolutely no snow.  Nobody could ski, took away my only skiing day, so I was very disappointed.  That's the only bad thing about it.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT