DAVIS CUP - AUSTRIA Vs. USA
February 8, 2004
Jurgen Melzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Were you glad that the sets were short, two out of three after playing three straight days 
 
 JURGEN MELZER: Of course. It was bad luck that the rest of the team is injured so I had to play because I am playing a tournament next week and I wanted to relax. I enjoyed playing out there. It was great fun with the crowd and playing Roddick first time is not what you can do everyday. Well, I did my best out there. It wasn't enough. His serve is huge, it is unbelievable. I didn't expect it being that fast almost killing like the crowd up there in the 10th row. But no, it was fun.  
 
Q. Do you think the U.S. team can win the whole thing? 
 
 JURGEN MELZER: Well, if they play Argentina away then it is going to be tough, I think, that -- I think that's the worst draw they can get. I don't know if they play them, when they play them. It is also -- if they play Sweden at home, Sweden has Bjorkman and he is always pumped up at Davis Cup. You never know with him. With this team, Andy and the Bryans, they are huge, they can win it.  
 
Q. Do they seem more together to you than perhaps other Davis Cup teams? 
 
 JURGEN MELZER: I don't know the others. They seem very together. They are all close friends, even Marty Fish was here the whole week, so, I think they enjoy playing Davis Cup and if they compete like this, the whole thing, they can win it.  
 
Q. Did you get a little frustrated when you couldn't catch up with his serve? 
 
 JURGEN MELZER: Well, I think everybody gets frustrated who plays Andy, if he serves like this. You just walk left and right. You guess first serve, so there's not much you can do about it, and well, you hit some. Even if it's like a dead rubber, like this he's more relaxed so he serves even bigger. So no, it was tough.  
 
Q. How do you approach a match like this, you know the outcome, you know the whole thing has been decided? 
 
 JURGEN MELZER: You go out and try to have fun. It's tough when he serves like this to have fun, but I did my best.  
 
Q. At one point I think the chair ump had called a couple of serves in or out. Andy looked up said, "hey, it's a dead rubber, what is the big deal?" Did you feel kind of like, that's right? 
 
 JURGEN MELZER: I don't want -- I want to see him like being in close calls getting against him even though it is a dead rubber. They were against me. If he says, okay, it's good, it's out, if I am on the court I want to win. If it is a bad decision, I say something.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT