DAVIS CUP - AUSTRIA Vs. USA
February 6, 2004
Jurgen Melzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. From two sets up it was 2-2 in the third. Did he lift his game or did you kind of fall a little bit there in terms of --- 
 
 JURGEN MELZER: I think both of it like I fell a little bit and he lifted a little bit. But at 2-1 in the third set deuce I had some chances, but I didn't take it. Went to fourth, fifth set, and it was bad luck to get broken every time first game of the third, fourth and fifth set. If I could stay in there like 2-All, 3-All, he was getting tight when it was tight. But I couldn't do it.  
 
Q. Were you getting tired at the end of the fit set or was he just getting more consistent? 
 
 JURGEN MELZER: He didn't miss; like I had to hit a lot of good shots to make the points. Fifth set, of course you get a little tired, but I think it was wasn't the tiredness like that I lost the game, because he lifted his game and I couldn't get anything against it.  
 
Q. Seemed like you had a real advantage whenever you went to the net or hit a drop shot to him, his net game wasn't as strong as yours. 
 
 JURGEN MELZER: No, I mean, that was -- it was obvious, but that kind of game we are playing, he's a baseliner, I am trying to come in and well, in the end it turned out that the baseliner won.  
 
Q. Seemed like your strategy really changed. Seemed like you had a real strategy in the first two sets. Third set all of a sudden you just went to a -- you stopped coming in, seemed like a lot changed in that third set? 
 
 JURGEN MELZER: Well, I don't think so. Maybe it's different how you feel on the court and like when you watch it from outside. I tried to come in as much as I can. But I didn't have the opportunity anymore. And he was lifting his game. He was playing more deep in the court so he hit me back, I was on the net as often as I could come.  
 
Q. Do you think the umpires were giving you bad calls on your serves? 
 
 JURGEN MELZER: That's normal if you play Davis Cup away, you don't get any calls. So at the end he overruled some at least, so it wasn't the calls who decided the game.  
 
Q. In your opinion does he play somewhat like Andre Agassi? 
 
 JURGEN MELZER: No, I don't think so. He doesn't hit the ball as hard as Andre. He moves as good as Andre, but it's a completely different game style.  
 
Q. How different was the feel of this match against him than when you played him last year? 
 
 JURGEN MELZER: It is completely different. It is Davis Cup. It was on grass, so, well, there's no comparison to it.  
 
Q. Last set he stepped up the return of serve. Did you notice that? 
 
 JURGEN MELZER: He was returning better but I choked in the first game, fifth set, 40-Love, like you have to do this game serving a doublefault, missing an easy volley, then he was playing -- like at deuce he was playing two good points, so he won the game and that turned the fifth set. If I could stay on serve and like serve in front, who knows what happens, but it wasn't like that.  
 
Q. I don't know what the serving stats are but it looked like the first two sets you were really making him pay for the second serves. Was his serve harder to read at the end or was he just going for it? 
 
 JURGEN MELZER: Started to slide more the first serve so I had to reach it like to play backhand, like -- he was playing okay, I mean, there is -- it was easy to attack you have to go always 100% it's winner or it's mistake. When it gets tight, it is sometimes difficult.  
 
Q. First time I have seen you play a full match. You are really good going down the line, especially with the forehand. Is that your typical game; do you go for that down-the-line? 
 
 JURGEN MELZER: If it's fast enough, I am trying to go for it. That's my style of playing and I follow it and hopefully it gets me up.  
 
Q. How do you feel about the crowd tonight? 
 
 JURGEN MELZER: Well, they were fair. It was good atmosphere and no whistling or something and no screams during the point. It was a fair crowd. I enjoyed playing there.  
 
Q. There was a lot of mishaps on-court with the ball hits. Was that distracting at any point with the balls flying around? 
 
 JURGEN MELZER: It doesn't matter. I was not -- I don't know the English word for it, but -- (Laughs).  
 
Q. What about the speed of the surface itself, is that good for your game? 
 
 JURGEN MELZER: I think it was fair. As I said last press conference it's a fair court, high bounce, I enjoy playing on a court like this. It is fast enough for me, so I didn't care.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT