RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 29, 2018
Chris Crisologo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your first RBC Canadian Open, played all four rounds.  How would you summarize the week?
CHRIS CRISOLOGO: It was quite the experience.  Coming to the event, I felt pretty good about my game, and I felt really good making the cut and then having a little bit of -- you know, having a little bit of impact on the weekend.  Honestly, all around, I thought I could have played a little better, actually, which is kind of surprising.  I think it was a little mediocre out there.
But just to be out here and take it all in is an amazing feeling, and actually to be finally finished is quite the relief now.
Q. What about your finish on 18, how nice was that?
CHRIS CRISOLOGO: Yeah, even yesterday's putt on 18 was kind of crazy.  Yeah, fortunately I did a little bit of research, and traditionally we've said it breaks a little more than you think coming from that slope, so yeah, gave it enough break, and fortunate for it to fall in.
Q. You started out pretty strongly.
CHRIS CRISOLOGO: Yeah, worked a little bit on the swing yesterday.  Got my tempo set, and that was kind of the game plan coming out today, just working on tempo, get the right swing feelings down, then carry that throughout the round.  I actually hit the ball pretty good today, which was nice.  Obviously could have putted a little better, but no, started out pretty strong with that one tee shot.
Q. What's the rest of your summer like?
CHRIS CRISOLOGO: I've got a week off, or at least five days off back home in Vancouver, and then I've got the Canadian Am coming up and the U.S. Am over at Pebble Beach.  Still a pretty busy stretch, but after this week obviously building a lot of momentum into that part of the year.
Q. Any temptation to turn pro?
CHRIS CRISOLOGO: We've always kind of stuck with the time being in the next two years.  It kind of depends on how my play is and opportunities that arise.  So I'm going to stick with that.
Q. Did your caddie hold you back at all today?
CHRIS CRISOLOGO: No, not a whole lot.  There were a few lines that were slightly more aggressive than Thursday and Friday, but I guess you can take a little few more aggressive lines, especially after making the cut.  Fortunately he wasn't too, too mad at some of those lines off some of the par-3s and off the tee.
Q. When we spoke a couple days ago, you talked about some of the finesse of the players at this level.  Obviously you're pretty filled with confidence right now.  What do you go away from this knowing you need to improve?  What's missing in your game?
CHRIS CRISOLOGO: Like I said, it's crazy how many strokes they save not entirely around the greens but kind of the second shots and being in the right places here and there.  I found myself in a lot of crazy places.  I had to do a lot of crazy math, too, while we're at it.  But yeah, it's just kind of the consistency that they have just going through week in and week out.  It's just unbelievable just seeing the consistency, even just on the range, and then out here on the course, everything is kind of -- you know, standard deviation is a little smaller than mine right now.
Q. I know your club is hosting the Canadian Women's Am this week, but have you had some correspondence from the members?
CHRIS CRISOLOGO: Yeah, obviously they're a ways away on the other side of the coast, but definitely feel their support.  I'm getting text messages here and there from them.  And even club members who have been there in the past are out here kind of cheering me out.  Obviously you feel their support and kind of carry that throughout the week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT