RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 28, 2018
Chris Crisologo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHRIS CRISOLOGO: It was up and down all around.  Obviously could have probably hit the ball a little better off the tee, but yeah, it was definitely -- puts a positive spin going into tomorrow.
Q. Last night when you heard that Sarah would be on your bag this week, how did you react?
CHRIS CRISOLOGO: I obviously wish Sarah could be out there, and it was good to have her for the first two days and getting it to the cut line, but at the end of the day, I'm not entirely sure the situation, but obviously family is important, and so it's good to have Derek on the bag, as well, too, to get a chance to work with him.  He actually caddied for me today for once.
Q. What was the situation on the 18th hole there?  Did he give you a bad yardage?
CHRIS CRISOLOGO: No, no.  We didn't have a bad yardage.  I was kind of a little scared of the water.  Just a little bit.  But I was actually in kind of the front part of a divot, so we were trying to play it a little firmer than -- we were trying to pick it a little more, and I think I picked it a little too clean, and it kind of ended up flying over the back.  But yeah, just got a nice little relief situation off the grandstands, which typically we wouldn't have in normal situations.  Yeah, took advantage of it for sure.
Q. Who's better in math, Sarah or Derek?
CHRIS CRISOLOGO: I think they're both pretty good.  I don't really have -- I do my own math and actually confirm with them, too, so yeah, they're both pretty good.  Haven't had too many math problems out there just yet.
Q. You seem to be smiling out there a lot.  Can you just kind of take us through your emotions of the day?
CHRIS CRISOLOGO: Obviously it's frustrating to not turn in the score that you want, but this is kind of how I like to play golf, just be out here and enjoy the experience.  For me at least, I can be playing a college event, I could be playing next week at the Canadian Am.  I'll still be smiling on the golf course.  I think if you have the right mindset out there and enjoy it, it won't be too hard of a walk, per se.
Q. Can you give some insight as to how you hit the ball so far?  Have you always been a long hitter?
CHRIS CRISOLOGO: You know, my dad always said just to hit the ball as hard as you can.  You find it and then hit it again.  That's kind of still my attitude out here today.  Eventually you kind of square things up with the tempo.  Tempo was just a little bit off today, but I guess we'll be able to work on it on the range a little later.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT