RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2018
Chris Crisologo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I was talking to your coach earlier and he said you'd be playing well and weren't getting the results.  Did you feel like this was something that was coming?
CHRIS CRISOLOGO: You know, the more opportunities you get, obviously you're going to get a breakthrough eventually.  You just kind of have to do the right things.  Obviously Derek Ingram has helped us out, and he's always been a big believer in my game.  You know, understanding that you're going to get a breakthrough eventually, it's just kind of doing the right things and keep pounding the rock is what he said.
Q. You've introduced yourself to the Waterville Canadian golf community.  Are you ready for the bigger crowds, more attention this weekend?
CHRIS CRISOLOGO: You just never know what to expect out of these things.  Obviously it's my first Canadian Open, so really just -- I'm just out here to enjoy the moment and make the most of this opportunity.
Q. Will you get a hold of Jared and see what his advice might be for you?
CHRIS CRISOLOGO: Yeah, it's nice having that connection with previous players, previous amateurs who have played well at this tournament.  You get insight on their -- what they were going through and kind of having expectation for it.  Obviously it's not something I've been -- there's nothing to prep for it, so it's just nice to have someone to talk to and be able to have that connection.
Q. Can you explain a little bit how you get along with your new caddie?
CHRIS CRISOLOGO: Yeah, she has been really good on the bag for me.  Obviously she's helped me out with the girls' deaf team, and she was with us in Argentina for the South American Amateur, so she traveled with us, and I got -- I was able to kind of get an understanding of how she looks at the game, and then at the same time we get out here and I'm in pretty desperate need of a caddie --
Q. Is she learning you something?
CHRIS CRISOLOGO: I think she's teaching me a lot more of how to handle kind of the shots and understanding that there are areas in the game where I can take advantage of, and she's seen my game and she's able to kind of help me out that way.
Q. Does she make decisions for you?
CHRIS CRISOLOGO: I think I'm pretty fair with all my caddies.  We have a mutual agreement is what it is, if anything.
Q. Speaking of your round today, I think you were 7-under after the 6th hole and then up-and-down a little bit.  17 you made a big putt.  Take me through that hole in particular and maybe earlier how you peaked and then sort of went down a little bit?
CHRIS CRISOLOGO: Yeah, that's kind of how it is through a round of golf.  There are going to be ups and downs, and it's just kind of managing your emotions through it, understanding that you're going to have those swings here and there and just making the most of a good swing.  Like starting out pretty well.  I didn't really take advantage of the first two holes, but after that it was pretty good.
17 was an interesting hole.  We were trying to hit a cut off the bunker, but really kind of twirled a little too far over.  All we could do was basically chip out, take it off the cart path literally, and the ball didn't really fly as expected.  But made a good up-and-down from about 42 or something yards.  I think the putt was really -- the turning point of that.  But yeah, obviously there's going to be momentum swings out there, and just kind of being ready and prepared for them is the most you can get out of it.
Q. Are your parents here?
CHRIS CRISOLOGO: No, they're not here, actually.  My brother is playing in Junior Americas in Montana, and my parents actually decided to meet him over for the Canadian Junior next week, so they're driving up to Alberta, wherever the Canadian Junior is.  No, they're not out here this week, but they are sending messages back and forth.  I remember during the weather delay my dad goes, yeah, everyone three-putts that hole, on 15, so he's definitely paying attention, and it's good to know that they still have my back, even if they're however far away.
Q. What does tonight look like for you?  This is the first time you've ever been in this position.
CHRIS CRISOLOGO: Well, I have my teammates around here, which is nice, so we'll get together for a dinner.  Obviously might do a little practice session just to get the feelings back together.  But yeah, it's just keeping relaxed and keeping the same routine that we've had the past few days.  I guess it's worked out pretty well.  So hopefully we'll continue to do that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT