U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2012
John Huston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   John Huston shot a 68 today and is 6 under par for the Championship.

Q.   Good start and then played solidly, like a lot of pars through the long stretch, and then in the last four holes made a little headway. 
JOHN HUSTON:   Overall, it was pretty good.   I wasn't hitting my putts hard enough on the front nine because I left a few chances out there, but I made a good save at 17 and then a nice putt at 18.   So I'm happy.

Q.   Now, given the conditions and given the fact that Bernhard has five strokes and the fact that he ‑‑ a lot of guys have said he's not going to come back to you, is it realistic that someone's going to catch him? 
JOHN HUSTON:   Well, I mean, yeah.   I mean, there's definitely a low score out there if we have the same weather conditions.   You know, you just have to hit it in the fairway.   If you hit it in the fairway, there's a lot of good chances to make birdie because a lot of the times, the ball will feed to the hole if you hit it in the right section of the green.
So there's definitely a low score out there.   But like you said, he's probably not going to back up.

Q.   Do you feel that maybe tomorrow is the day for you? 
JOHN HUSTON:   Could be.   I've played a little.   Actually felt a little bit better each day.   I didn't putt as well today as I did yesterday, but I made a nice putt at the end, actually, the last couple holes.   So hopefully, that will carry over.

Q.   What's the hardest part of this golf course to figure out? 
JOHN HUSTON:   I think it's hard to get the lines off the tee with the different winds.   The wind has been similar each day, but it's changed a little bit, and I think it's kind of hard to get the right line.   There's a lot of blind tee shots and some funny angles. 
Having not played here before, this being probably the fourth or fifth time now, I'm starting to get better at what the lines off the tee are.

Q.   Have you convinced yourself that the putts going downhill are faster, the putts uphill are slower? 
JOHN HUSTON:   It's hard to get the speed.   The greens are in great shape.   If you give yourself good chances, you should be able to make them.

Q.   Thank you. 
JOHN HUSTON:   Thanks a lot.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT