BOOZ ALLEN CLASSIC
June 22, 2006
John Huston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  We thank John Huston for stopping by after a 4 under 67 in the first round of the Booz Allen Classic.  John, an interesting day out there, just five pars, a lot of birdies, a couple bogeys.
JOHN HUSTON:  Yeah, I had it going pretty good.  I was driving the ball really well and you know, the second shot on 15, I just hit a poor shot, missed the green in an impossible spot.  After that, it just seemed like I never really hit another really good shot.  So you know, disappointing finish, and I'm sure there's going to be 10 or 15 guys that finish ahead of me.  So you know, I've got to forget about it and play good the rest of the week.
TODD BUDNICK:  Just a fourth place finish this year at the Bob Hope Chrysler Classic and outside of that
JOHN HUSTON:  You know, I'm at the end.  I know, I've got no problem with that.  I certainly don't have the game that I once did.  But I still think that, you know, days like today when I get it going, it feels like I can still do it.  You know, I'm still trying to.  I've had a few weeks off and hopefully I can play good the rest of the year.
Q.  Talk about the course today.  I know a lot of people have been saying it's the best it's ever looked.  What was your impressions?
JOHN HUSTON:  Yeah, it absolutely is.  The greens are spectacular.  The whole course actually is in beautiful condition.  The greens are probably a little bit faster than they looked.  That's the only hard part about it.  They are fairly soft.  So there will be a lot of good scores.

But, you know, still, like 15 and 17, if you miss the green in the wrong spot like I did, the greens are fast enough where it's hard to get it up and down.
Q.  Did you chip in at 12?
JOHN HUSTON:  Yes.
Q.  So you chipped in at 12, had the eagle at 13 and drove the green at 14.  After those, you had to be feeling pretty good?
JOHN HUSTON:  Yeah, I was sitting right in the middle of the fairway on 15.  Just hit a poor shot with an 8 iron and all of a sudden it was a different person.
Q.  When you say you were at the end, I mean, what's the difference now than when you felt like you were in your prime?  Is it physical?  Is it mental?
JOHN HUSTON:  It's physical, yeah, definitely, some of it's physical.  You don't feel as good every day.  I have days where I feel just as good, but I think more so, it's the putting.  You know, you don't have    I don't have near as much confidence putting short putts as I used to.

So I don't tend to want to give myself 4  or 5 footers all day coming back, if I don't putt it aggressively, and just a lot of different things.  Plus, when you first come out, you're at the top of driving distance, you know, and even though I fit it further now than I did then, everybody else is, you know, middle of the pack now.  But that makes a big difference.
Q.  Do you think in some ways, are you thinking Champions Tour?
JOHN HUSTON:  Oh, yeah, definitely I think stay healthy and keep playing a little bit next few years and you never know.  If I start playing really well the rest of this week, everything could turn around.
Q.  Did you feel noticeably different after the couple weeks off?
JOHN HUSTON:  I started playing better the last week or so at home.  I didn't even touch a club for three weeks and then started playing a little bit.  Trying to play more at home and practice less.  I think that's helped me a lot.
Q.  Why?
JOHN HUSTON:  I think you get    it's hard to take, if you're working on something on the practice tee and you know, you think you're hitting it really good; until you get on a really tough hole with a really tough tee shot, then you feel totally different.  I'm just trying to play and trying to find it that way.
TODD BUDNICK:  Let's go through your round.  The birdie on 1?
JOHN HUSTON:  Birdie on 1, I had a pitching wedge about six inches.

No. 2, I hit a lob wedge about five feet.

No. 3, I missed the green just left and chipped up about ten feet and missed it.

No. 5, I hit a lob wedge about six inches.

No. 6, the par 5, I hit a 3 iron about 35 feet for eagle and 2 putted.

No. 9, I missed the green in the bunker and hit it out about eight feet and missed it.

10, I hit a sand wedge about eight feet.

12, I chipped in from probably 25, 30 yards.

13, the eagle, I hit a 6 iron about 30 feet and made it.

14, I drove it on the green about 20 feet, 2 putted.

15, I hit an 8 iron long and right.  Chipped it 20 feet past and made bogey.

16, I drove behind the trees and I had to hit it out short of the green.  Chipped it about ten feet, missed that.

17, I hit a 6 iron long left and chipped it back over the green and then made bogey there.
Q.  When you're chipping in, when you're making eagles, when you're hitting to six inches on a couple holes, what's going through your mind?  Is it, this game is too easy?
JOHN HUSTON:  Well, no, I don't think it's    certainly there's, you know, with the way it is out here, it can turn around like that, so you know that, and you know, just trying to keep doing the same thing.  I think I let the pace of play get to me a little bit today, especially at the end.

I mean, I don't know, the first group finished in what, five hours or something.  We're the second group off and playing probably at least five hours.  You know, I just don't understand it.  Playing at home, I haven't played a round that's taken over 2 1/2 hours in two week, so kind of hard.  You just feel like you're standing around waiting.

The guys in front caught the last group off the other nine, so they are waiting, we're waiting.
Q.  Was there a little bit of disappointment after 13, 14 to finish up that way or not?
JOHN HUSTON:  Oh, absolutely.  Any time you finish poorly, it's disappointing.  You know, no explanation for it.  Just you know, started hitting bad shots.  Hopefully get rid of it tomorrow.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, John.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT