CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
September 30, 2005
John Huston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  We welcome John Huston after a pair of 66, he's at 12 under, 133, after two rounds at the 2005 Chrysler Classic of Greensboro.  John, two good rounds for you heading into the weekend.
JOHN HUSTON:  Yeah, I've played pretty solid this week.  I think definitely I've made a lot of putts, my short game's been pretty good, which has held the round together.  Haven't been having to count too many bogeys.  I think that's been the key.
TODD BUDNICK:  You've got seven TOUR victories.  The last three have all come in October in '98, 2000 and 2003.  You're in kind of a groove there.
JOHN HUSTON:  Yeah, hopefully.  It's about time.  Hasn't been a very good year.  Hopefully play good at the end of the year, could change things.
TODD BUDNICK:  Talk about why that may be, your good play late in the season.
JOHN HUSTON:  Well, you know, I was in such a bad position, really bad, probably a couple months ago.  I decided just to start playing every week, see if I could kind of get some sort of a feel for the game back, not think so much mechanics.  I've started playing a little bit better.
TODD BUDNICK:  Talk about today's round.  No bogeys out there today.  Six birdies, no bogeys.
JOHN HUSTON:  Yeah, I had some good saves.  It seemed like, other than one chance, I made the birdie putts that I had a chance at.
TODD BUDNICK:  Some questions.
Q.  When you come to a course like this where scoring is going to be low, is that putting extra pressure on you?
JOHN HUSTON:  For me personally, I like when scoring conditions are good, you know, and the weather's good.  You know, I think you just kind of tee off and see what the course gives you, hopefully take advantage of it.
Q.  Your score is the same today.  Was the round the same?  Did you play it kind of the same?
JOHN HUSTON:  I probably played a little bit better yesterday.  You know, I didn't have any bogeys today.  I really, other than one putt, made just about every putt that I should have made.
Q.  Can you talk a little about the decision to play almost every week out.  What exactly were you looking to find or improve on?
JOHN HUSTON:  I was, you know, pretty much either just kind of halfway give up for the year, start playing every week and try to get myself back into a decent position.  I really    I guess I just decided I wasn't ready to give up on the game yet, so I just decided the best way to go about getting myself back into a better position would be to just start playing every week.
Q.  When you say "give up on the game," you mean just for the year?
JOHN HUSTON:  Yeah, pretty much.  You know, if I had just selected the few tournaments to play at the end of the year or whatever, I probably wouldn't have had a very good chance of, you know, getting into the top 125 or anything, then I would have been just at the mercy of whatever tournaments I would have got in.  I decided I would rather   if I could   be in a position to pick the tournaments I wanted to play in.
Q.  Have you had a similar experience earlier in your career to this year, where you had to kind of decide what to do at the end of the year?
JOHN HUSTON:  Well, I had one other time where I was outside the 125, but I had that top 50 exemption.  You know, I kind    I didn't worry about it too much, didn't play as much at the end of the year.

You know, I'm getting to the point now where if I could play 15 tournaments the next few years, I wouldn't worry about it anyway too much.
Q.  You stopped playing here for a while I guess back in the '90s.  Were you mad at this place?  Whatever that incident was that happened here, did you hold it against the tournament or the town?
JOHN HUSTON:  No.  You know, I played at least the next three or four years after that.  No, I think, you know, I had one or two years in a row where I didn't play very well here.  I think it was more of a schedule thing.  I think it just didn't fit in schedule wise there for a while.  I started playing a lot.  In the spring, if you played through Florida and you played the Masters and Hilton Head, then it was just time to take a break.
Q.  Did what happen, did you hold any feelings of that, the way they handled it and all?
JOHN HUSTON:  No, no.  No, it had no effect on anything.  I always liked Greensboro, and I still do.
Q.  This many years from now, do you look back on it and say, "That was stupid"?
JOHN HUSTON:  Well, yeah, I mean, I think it was more blown out.  It really was no big deal then, and still to me.  I think the whole problem with it is they made a really big deal of it after I left.  To me, it was already done, I was at home.  I don't have any feeling    I don't even really remember it.
Q.  You said before how well your short game was today.  How important was that on 16 and 17, where you left some shots short of the green?
JOHN HUSTON:  Yeah, I think some of those holes coming in played a little bit longer today.  We had a different wind than we had in the afternoon yesterday, so those holes played a lot different.

Any time you can    your short game can save you, especially when you can chip it in, chip it close, it just keeps the round together.
Q.  Could you go over your birdies today.
JOHN HUSTON:  No. 2, I hit a 4 iron out of the left rough on the green about 35 feet, 2 putted.

Let's see.  No. 7, I hit a sand wedge to about six feet.

8, I hit a 4 iron about 15 feet.

No. 10, I hit a 9 iron about two feet.

13, I chipped it to about six inches from just short of the green.

16, I chipped in from just short of the green.
Q.  How far was that?
JOHN HUSTON:  I was probably 30 feet from the hole.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you.
JOHN HUSTON:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT