WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 27, 2004
John Huston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
How is it?

JOHN HUSTON:  It's hard.  It's just playing long.  Actually, other than the little club I missed on 17, I played pretty well, putted pretty well, didn't make a lot of birdies, but there's not a lot of birdie holes out there.


Q.  What was it, like three feet on 17?

JOHN HUSTON:  Yeah, maybe a little bit longer than that, but I just pushed it.  It doesn't seem like I can go around without missing one of those anymore, for some unknown reason, but it was the perfect putt you wanted to have, a straight in, three-footer to win.


Q.  And then you've got to go play 18?

JOHN HUSTON:  Yeah, and anything can happen then.  You know, just like here, it's hard to get it close because there's nowhere to land it to spin it back and get it close here.


Q.  Did you keep your composure pretty well after 17?

JOHN HUSTON:  Yeah, I was driving it pretty well.  I think that was the main thing.  I kept driving it in the fairway.  After I got past the first few holes I got up-and-down and I drove it pretty well the rest of the day and hit a lot of greens.


Q.  You talked about the course being long and tough.  Is that maybe a theory why things are lopsided this morning, that if you're not on at all you're really going to --

JOHN HUSTON:  Yeah, I'll tell you, it's hard to make birdies so I can't imagine anybody is really tearing it up to win those matches.


Q.  A lot of bogeys?

JOHN HUSTON:  You know, guys that are longer maybe, but it's still hard to get it close to the hole, even when you get a short shot in there.


Q.  How hard is the spin control?

JOHN HUSTON:  Well, I've got no choice because I can't take a chance on landing it back here.  I hit a pitching wedge and it still spun back off the green, so there was nothing I could do.


Q.  What do you know about Ian Poulter's game?  Have you played with him much?

JOHN HUSTON:  No, I've never met him, never seen him. 


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT