U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2012
John Huston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   John Huston shot a 67 today.   He's 4 under par for the Championship.  
   
 Q.   Hey, John.   Well played today.   
JOHN HUSTON:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   Good under par round.   What did you see out there that‑‑ or what did you do out there that got you to the point of 3 under today?   
JOHN HUSTON:   Well, the first nine holes, I played it really good, and I got a couple of good bounces.   I hit the pin on No. 9 that stopped close.   Then I made three bogeys in a row.   11, from the middle of the fairway.   12, three‑putted also right down the middle.   So I let a couple of shots get away, but I came back and made eagle on 15 and birdied 17.   So I'm happy with it.  
   
 Q.   You see the opportunities out there when you put it in the fairway and then opposite‑‑ you go a little bit wrong, you're really going to have to struggle?   
JOHN HUSTON:   Absolutely, yeah.   If you're driving it in the fairway, there's a lot of good chances, but like you said, if you're off a little bit, it can be difficult.  
   
 Q.   With the position you're in now, that's close to the lead, not knowing what guys are going to do this afternoon, what do you do with your preparations for the weekend?   
JOHN HUSTON:   For myself, being the fourth week in a row, I just go back and take it easy.   I'm kind of trying to pace myself so I won't do much this afternoon.   Just try to come out and same game plan, hit it in the fairway, hopefully.  
   
 Q.   Do you see any difference between the conditions from yesterday to today?   Were they pretty similar?   
JOHN HUSTON:   They were pretty similar, I thought.   Same thing.   If you hit it in the fairway, you could have a good chance.   Not a whole lot of wind.   The last couple holes it picked up a little bit.   I don't know what it will be like this afternoon.  
   
 Q.   Consistency has been your hallmark.   That's something you need at a USGA Championship.   But given the fact that you might have‑‑ say, for example, Kite or somebody else goes lower, what does that do to your headset to try to be more aggressive when you can get it?   What do you do?  
JOHN HUSTON:   I think you still have to take what it gives you.   I don't think you can start trying to force the issue.   There's not a whole lot of holes that‑‑ it's pretty obvious what to hit off the tee and stuff.   Maybe No. 9 is a little iffy for some guys.   I like driver off that tee myself.   
So I'll just stick with the same plan.  
   
 Q.   The front nine, there are a lot of low numbers being shot out there on the front nine.   Does that lull you into a sense that maybe you can keep that sustained throughout the back nine?   
JOHN HUSTON:   Yeah, I mean, there's no real reason why you shouldn't if you keep driving it in the fairway. Unfortunately, for me, I did hit it in the fairway, and I still made a couple of bogeys.   Kind of a sloppy three‑putt, and I hit a fat wedge into 11.   So I let a couple get away pretty sloppily.   
But overall, it's a good score.   Thanks.  
   
 Q.   Well played.   
JOHN HUSTON:   Thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT