WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 25, 2004
John Huston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Talk about how you felt about the match. 

JOHN HUSTON:  I felt like it's kind of a miracle really.  The way Retief started off, he was hitting it so well.  I think he hit every green on the front.  I think maybe he might have been a little bit rusty.  He said he hasn't played in three weeks and he's been in London.


Q.  It obviously shows with you winning that the rankings, while they may mean something throughout the course of the year on a given day, they don't mean anything if you're not playing well. 

JOHN HUSTON:  On any given day, they don't mean much, the seedings and everything.  But for me to beat Retief on a course this long and playing this long, it really is kind of a ball-striker's golf course.  I'm pretty happy.


Q.  Obviously it's nice when you get to extend your stay for a day or two more. 

JOHN HUSTON:  Right.  The longer you get to hang around, the better it is.  You know, the course is playing really tough, the greens are brutal, so just hang in there is about all I did today.


Q.  Brutal in what way, fast?

JOHN HUSTON:  Fast and bumpy.  It's like every footprint stays there the rest of the day, and I think Retief -- you can't get any speed because then you've got another one coming back as long or longer. 

It seemed like there was a couple holes where we were just trying to see which one of us could miss the most times.  Chipping to these greens is really tough because you can never tell what kind of that first bounce is going to do.


Q.  Is there a turning point in the match that you could look back and say, I think the match turned on that hole or that shot?

JOHN HUSTON:  Yeah, well, I mean, I think I was 2 down at the turn, and he had just a little sand wedge into the 10th hole there and missed the green in the right bunker, so at least I got to see that I could win a hole.


Q.  That kind of did it right there, huh?

JOHN HUSTON:  Yeah, and then he never really seemed to play as well from then on.  I'm sure a lot of it has to do with not having been able to practice.


Q.  He actually said he might not come back here.  The course doesn't set up for his game and the greens are so brutal that he just couldn't get it down. 

JOHN HUSTON:  Other than the greens, I think it does -- he's really long -- he's probably one of the Top 10 length-wise guys out here, but I can see what he means.  I mean, it'll drive you crazy.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT