FUNAI GOLF CLASSIC AT WALT DISNEY WORLD RESORT
October 23, 2003
John Huston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Thanks for joining us.  Talk about your 64, 8-under for the day.

JOHN HUSTON:  I was very pleased with the way I played.  I drove it pretty well.  I gave myself a lot of good chances and I think only missed one green.  I got that one up and down, so I think any time you go a round with no bogeys you have got to be pleased. 

MODERATOR:  Let's go through your card real quick starting with No. 1.

JOHN HUSTON:  I hit it in the right rough and hit it just on the front fringe.  I chipped it about 15 feet short of the hole and made it.

5, hit a good drive down there.  I hit a lob wedge about four feet. 

7, par 5, I hit a 4-wood on the green about 20 feet, 2-putted for birdie.

9, hit 8-iron 20 feet, made that one.

11, hit a 4-wood in the front fringe and 2-putted from about 35 feet. 

12, par 3, hit 5-iron about three feet.

14, par 5, I drove it in the left fairway bunker and hit a 4-iron into the green-side bunker then blasted out about eight feet.

18, I hit a 7-iron about ten feet.

MODERATOR:  Questions. 


Q.  You have won this thing twice and had a Tour scoring record for a while in Hawaii and you seem to do pretty well in these go-low-birdie bonanza type things.  What does it say about your personality if anything?

JOHN HUSTON:  Yeah, that's true.  I do feel comfortable when it's better conditions and everybody is shooting low.  I don't know.  I guess it says more about growing up down here and that's kind of the style of golf that you play down here.  The greens are kind of soft, but it seems like when I get in the harder tournaments-and not always, but sometimes I have a difficult time around the greens.  Not so much at Augusta where it's just chip-and-running, but like U.S. Open-type stuff where you are slapping out of the high right grass rough, I just never  -- I just never have gotten that great at that.


Q.  Bermuda southern  --

JOHN HUSTON:  I was everything but for the greens.  The greens were bent but they were pretty soft. 


Q.  Typical Disney?

JOHN HUSTON:  Yeah, you know, course is in great shape.  I think the rough on the palms is a little bit more difficult than I remember but I was fortunate a couple of times that I did get it in the rough, had a decent lie.  But it's a pretty tough rough.  But, yeah, the wind  -- it blew a little bit but not too bad.  It's playing pretty fast so the course is not playing that long.


Q.  (Inaudible) money list?

JOHN HUSTON:  Right around 40.  38.


Q.  Would you comment about THE TOUR Championship being 38 on the money list?

JOHN HUSTON:  Certainly with this week, if I play well which I am going to have to play really well, but certainly that's in the back of my mind and the champions course is an all-Bermuda course, it's some of the best Bermuda greens I have ever putted on so that would be nice to play these three weeks in a row.


Q.  Do you recall the last time when you were on a bubble for 125?

JOHN HUSTON:  Yeah.  1997 I was but I had that -- I always knew I had that top 50 exemption.  I actually thought about not even playing the end of the year because I  -- my shoulder was hurting, but you know, I was  -- not with my job on the line.  I knew I had that and I ended up finishing 140th or something on the money list.  I don't know. 


Q.  Can you compare the difference between trying to play hard at the end of the year to getting 125 and trying to play hard to get into THE TOUR Championship?

JOHN HUSTON:  I think there's no comparison.  Most of the guys that are playing to make the 125 have all played a lot of tournaments in a row and a lot of tournaments for the year.  So  --


Q.  (Inaudible).  Going for 125 do you suffer over every  --

JOHN HUSTON:  Hopefully I would say you would try not to.  You would try to just go play, but it's got to be difficult, especially like I said, most of those guys have played every tournament for the last couple of months, I would think, trying to make their money.  For me, that's hard to play that many tournaments in a row.


Q.  When they redid the schedule, as much luck as you have had in Florida, got this mini-Florida swing on the back of the schedule, that must have fired you up something fierce?

JOHN HUSTON:  I could probably play a full schedule without ever leaving  -- I could play all Florida, Texas, Arizona, Palm Springs and Hawaii and that would be a pretty full year.  That's pretty much what I do.  I play the southeast courses and hopefully good weather like we have here and that's what I am used to.  That's what I grew up on. 


Q.  (Inaudible)?

JOHN HUSTON:  I knew when I came  -- I had taken 5 weeks off before Texas which was the week before that and I knew when I was coming out of that break that I was feeling a lot better and I was playing a lot better.  I just was trying to be patient and let it happen and fortunately the second week I did play really well and you know, to have that momentum going into these weeks, the tournaments that I have done well, it's a big boost.  Hopefully I will take advantage of it.


Q.  Are you any more aggressive player maybe than the average guy?

JOHN HUSTON:  Yeah, probably  -- I know for sure when I first came out  -- to the point of being dumb, but yeah, probably more so than a lot of guys.  But not as much as I used to be.


Q.  Is this the kind of a golf course that you  -- you won here twice you know you are going to have to come out and play with your hair on fire?

JOHN HUSTON:  Yeah, definitely you have got to because actually and a lot  -- the way the greens are out here a lot of times the middle of the green is a harder putt than if you miss it short side and have that little chip-up back up the hill.  (Inaudible) short siding yourself out of here missing the green is really not all that bad. 


Q.  (Inaudible)?

JOHN HUSTON:  He's certainly is  -- he's one of those guys that's, you know, he's a Top 5 guy and it seems like health wise he has a great physical  -- his body is such that it holds up to a lot of practice.  A lot of guys couldn't practice as much as he does if they wanted to because it would just wear their bodies down.  But he seems to be able to do that.  He always seems pretty healthy and certainly he's a big guy, he overpowers most of the golf courses now.  So, yeah, every week  --


Q.  I would say middle of summer about every tournament he has been up there.

JOHN HUSTON:  He's just solid.  Like I said, courses like out here, I mean, he just overpowers them.  So I think that a big thing about it is he really doesn't have to putt that good to be up at the top of the leaderboard.


Q.  If your body can stand that amount of practice would you want to?

JOHN HUSTON:  That's just it.  It would depend on the person.  If you were actually getting better or staying  -- it's hard for me because once I start hitting it good then I start wanting to either hit it further or try different shots and then I'd start getting all kind of crazy swing thoughts in my head.  It is better for me if I just keep it simple and don't practice as much. 


Q.  (Tiger tying the record for making 113 consecutive cuts)?

JOHN HUSTON:  I don't think they have any idea how unbelievable that is. 


Q.  Can you compare it to anything else?

JOHN HUSTON:  No.  That's just -- that is the ultimate in consistency.  It's not like  -- other than a few tournaments where there aren't any cuts, I mean, and I don't think he would have missed a cut at any of those tournaments anyway, but you got  -- if you don't putt well it puts you right on the cut.  For me if I don't putt well it puts me on the cut line even if I am hitting the ball well.  It seems like he plays so well, he hardly ever is looking at the cut by the time he makes the turn on Friday.  I think for the rest of us, you know, you get to the tournament on Friday sometimes and you are looking at the cut, that makes it harder to make some putts and stuff, but that's  -- yeah that's an unbelievable feat.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

JOHN HUSTON:  There's a lot of low cuts.  6-under or something it was here last year.  It's not that easy.  I mean, it's not as difficult as a lot of courses, but I mean it's not that easy to shoot 6-under. 


Q.  (Inaudible)?

JOHN HUSTON:  I would say somewhere around 15 to 20. 


Q.  (Inaudible)?

JOHN HUSTON:  I think I made  -- last year I made the first 15 or 16 cuts.


Q.  Start thinking about crazy swings then?

JOHN HUSTON:  Yeah, that's right (laughs).


Q.  The weather conditions the way they are and the course conditions, do you think that you are really going to have to go very low here this year to be in the hunt?

JOHN HUSTON:  Yeah.  It will be up in the mid 20s, I would think.  There's no telling.  Somebody could go even lower than that.  But I would guest around 25 to 26-under right around there would be  -- if the wind doesn't start blowing.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT