BAY HILL INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY COOPER TIRES
March 17, 2002
John Huston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOHN BUSH:  John, obviously a tough start for you and a tough ending, but some birdies in
between.  Can you give us some general thoughts on your round out there today. JOHN HUSTON:
  Yeah, I played really well, you know it's just really hard to hit the greens, and you had to
just try to make the most of it. JOHN BUSH:  Can you take us through your birdies and bogeys
and the clubs you hit? JOHN HUSTON:   Second hole I hit a 5-iron and came up short of the
green.  The wind was kind of tricky there.  I chipped it up about five feet and missed the putt
for par. No. 3, same thing.  The wind blew the ball left and it hit the fringe and it kicked
down in the hazard.  And I got up-and-down for a bogey. Then the fourth hole, I chipped it from
the fringe up to about five feet and made birdie. Sixth hole, I hit a sand wedge to the back
fringe about 20 feet and made it. No.  9, I hit a 7-iron about 20 feet and made birdie.
Number 12, I hit a sand wedge about four feet and made birdie. Then No.  17, I hit a 4-iron
in the back bunker and hit it out about 15 feet and missed that. Then the last hole, I hit a
9-iron that I hit over the hazard and came back in the hazard, dropped and got up-and-down for 5.
JOHN BUSH:  Any questions? 
Q.  Do you think some of the pins were unfair today?  JOHN HUSTON:   Well, you
couldn't hit the green.  I couldn't hit the green.  You might be able to sneak it on left side of
the green when the last few groups were coming through there, but other than that, it was
impossible to hit the green.  I don't think I've ever seen a par 3 that was more impossible to hit
the green, let alone miss it somewhere near the pin.  Making 4 there is probably pretty close to
making par today.

Q.  Did you think Tiger would not struggle two days in a row; that you had to play a really
great round? JOHN HUSTON:   Yeah, I didn't figure that he would.  And as far as he drives
it and the fairways were soft, so it was easier to hit the fairways, and being further down, with
as much spin as he puts on the ball, it's a big advantage the way the course was set up.

Q.  Do you take anything from this for yourself, to have been in contention and played
pretty well for four days? JOHN HUSTON:   Yeah, I shot about as good as I would have
expected to shoot. The last hole was disappointing because I thought I hit a really good shot. 
I would have expected that shot to be somewhere within ten feet of the hole.  But other than that,
you know, I played pretty well.  I got it around well.  Scored all right and putted pretty good. 
There weren't very many pins all week that I could get close to.  So considering that, I made a
lot of birdies.

Q.  Are you going to stick with this cross-handed putting? JOHN HUSTON:   At least
for a while, I am, yeah.  I putted pretty well. JOHN BUSH:  John, congratulations on a good
tournament.  Thanks a lot for coming by. 
  
End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT