U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2000
John Huston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 JOHN HUSTON: Thank you. I'm pleased that I was able to go out, take advantage of a
really good tee time. When I saw the tee times, I thought it was going to be a big
advantage, and I wanted to go ahead and take advantage of it; and fortunately, I did. 
 
 JOHN HUSTON: Yeah, this morning it was just perfect. There was no wind, and the sun was
out. The greens were perfect. And then we actually probably got through at least 15 holes
without any wind at all, really. And then probably not until the 17th tee, the wind kicked
up, and then on 18 it was blowing pretty good. 
 
Q. John, with your early tee time, how early did you get up this morning? Do you like
going off early? Are you a morning person?
 
 JOHN HUSTON: No, not necessarily. I think you have enough early tee times out here that
you kind of get used to it. I probably got up about 5:00; and fortunately, I'm staying
here pretty close. It was really nice by the time -- by 6:15, so it didn't seem like it
was all that early. I've had some early tee times where it really seemed like it was
earlier than it was. 
 
Q. How much wind did you see at 17 and 18, and what direction, and did it make the
course play particularly tough?
 
 JOHN HUSTON: Yeah, it was coming right in off the ocean, so 17 it was blowing dead in
your face. And 18 it was blowing pretty hard left-to-right. So I think that's probably the
hardest wind for those last couple of holes. It's going to be difficult if it stays like
that the rest of the day. 
 
Q. John, in a major championship, you have a great record of making cuts and good
finishes. Does your focus change any? Does it take a major to really make you zero in?
 
 JOHN HUSTON: I don't know about that. I think I've gotten a lot better at being patient
and not beating myself. I've made a lot fewer double bogeys and higher in probably the
last several majors that I've played in. So I'm getting better at that. And I think
everybody is probably pretty focused, but I like to think that I'm pretty focused every
week. 
 
Q. Tell us your birdies and bogeys, please.
 
 JOHN HUSTON: Sure. Started off on the 1st hole. I hit an 8-iron about 10 feet and made
that for birdie. The 2nd hole I missed the green with a 4-iron and pitched up about 20
feet; 2-putted for bogey. No. 3, I came right back. I hit a 9-iron about 12 feet. No. 6, I
hit it just in the right rough short of the green and pitched about 12 feet past, and made
that one. No. 7, I hit a sand wedge about 20 feet. No. 8, I missed the green left, pitched
up about ten feet; missed that. No. 10, I hit a 6-iron about 35 feet; made a nice putt
there. Number 11, I had a 9-iron, and it spun back about 20, 25 feet, and made that. Then
No. 13, I had about a 30-footer that I putted about three feet by, and misread the next
one and missed that one. No. 15, I hit a pitching wedge out of the left rough about four
feet; made birdie there.  
 
Q. How tough was it when you got in the rough? Could you get it to the green, or did
you have to wedge it out?
 
 JOHN HUSTON: Every time I was in the rough today, I had a good lie; I had a lie that I
could get to the green. So certainly I was fortunate there. I think there's certain holes
where one side of the rough is a lot easier than the other. 15 is one of those holes. I
think 13 is one of those holes where you can get a better lie, and plus you have a better
angle at the green. But I did, I had a pretty reasonable lie every time that I was in the
rough.  
 
Q. John, when you say "patience," are you saying the difference between
whether you win a major or not will be mental and not mechanical?
 
 JOHN HUSTON: I think a lot of times -- I think, certainly, whoever wins certainly plays
well. But I think the difference is, if you make a couple of bogeys in a row or -- not
trying to save a par so much that you cause yourself to make a double or triple, and just
learn that you've got to give -- certain situations, you've just got to try to give
yourself a putt. And I think I've gotten a little better at that. I used to pretty much
not want to give away a bogey under any circumstance, and try to hit an impossible shot,
try to make par; and I've learned not to do that. 
 
Q. Looks like you made six putts from about 120 feet altogether. That's a lot of long
putts. What's happening?
 
 JOHN HUSTON: The greens this morning were perfect, and they were the perfect speed.
These are the type of greens that later in the day I think there's so many different
grasses and they grow at different speeds, that later in the day they do get a little
bumpy. I knew that being second off was going to be a big advantage. 
 
 JOHN HUSTON: Second round last year? I think I played good on Friday last year. I think
so.  
 
 JOHN HUSTON: Actually, I think I played good the second day, and then the last two days
wasn't so good. But it was pretty difficult last year. There was definitely a fine line.
Certainly, last year was one of my favorite Opens, but there was really a fine line. You
had to be really playing well last year.  
 
Q. With the later start tomorrow, are you going to have to attack the course
differently, and how so?
 
 JOHN HUSTON: A lot of it will depend on the weather. I think playing at 11:00, there
will still be plenty of moisture in the greens, so the greens still should be pretty good.
But you just have to -- this course, I think, is totally dictated by the weather. Probably
different than a lot of Open courses, if -- on a good day there's a lot of birdie holes,
but when the weather gets nasty, it makes this course incredibly hard.  
 
 JOHN HUSTON: Actually towards the latter part, probably the last three holes, you could
really feel it cool off and the wind pick up, coming in off the ocean. It was kind of
foggy and pretty much a typical Pebble Beach day. But I think if our group would have been
first off, we would have finished without ever seeing any wind; but unfortunately, the
first group was a little slow. 
 
Q. John, would you talk about what you think of No. 7 and how easy it looks like it
should play, but that not necessarily being the way it does play?
 
 JOHN HUSTON: Well, when we played it this morning, it was a pretty easy shot. The thing
that makes it difficult is the big elevation change makes it a little difficult to judge
the distance. But on a day like today, early in the day with no wind, it's relatively an
easy shot. 
 
Q. How difficult is it to be able to stand there 100 yards away with, say, a 5-iron and
hope the wind doesn't stop?
 
 JOHN HUSTON: Well, actually I've never played here when it was like that. I can only
imagine that the only reason that short of a shot, and we have to hit that kind of club,
is because of the elevation change and the wind coming in off the ocean. But that would
make that hole almost impossible. You're just kind of guessing.  
 
 JOHN HUSTON: Oh, no question. If the wind stays like it was when we were on the last
hole, it's going to be much more difficult.  
 
Q. John, on 18, two of you guys hit the tree off the tee -- it looked like right
through the tree. How problematic was the left-to-right wind there, and how much did it
bring that tree into play?
 
 JOHN HUSTON: It was a little deceiving, because it seemed like it was kind of hurting a
little bit, too. I hit a 4-wood off the tee, and I was trying to hit it almost right at
those two trees. I didn't think it was flying as far as it did, and I was surprised that
it flew up there and into the tree. I don't guess I've played here enough to really have a
feel for when the wind's blowing that hard off the ocean. From what I remember, there was
a lot more fairway last time when I played. 
 
Q. Having started well last year, and then faded over the weekend, do you learn
something from that? Do you do anything differently this year?
 
 JOHN HUSTON: I probably wasn't playing quite as well last year going into the Open. It
was just the kind of course where you really have to have a great feel for the speed of
the greens that week. I don't think -- I may have made one, maybe two doubles for the
whole week last week. And I may not have made any. It was just the case where I was that
little bit off, and I made a lot of bogeys. And that's just the kind of course that that
was. Certainly I learned that you've got to hang in there. Certainly, on a course like
this, if you hang in there, there's enough birdie holes that you can make a good streak.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT