GTE BYRON NELSON GOLF CLASSIC
May 13, 2000
John Huston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 JOHN HUSTON: Yeah, it was another difficult day. I'm happy with the score I shot. I
think I never really let it get away from me. I would have liked to have driven the ball a
little bit better, but, you know, the bad drives that I did hit, I ended up with a shot to
the green. You know, the back nine I played pretty solid.  
 
Q. Jesper said that the wind today was a lot more difficult to play in than the last
two days, especially the first day. Do you agree with that? How difficult was it? 
 
 JOHN HUSTON: Well, I didn't play this course the first day. So, I don't know how -- how
the different wind was on the first day, but I would imagine that the first day was a
little bit different, you know, it was a different direction. But certainly, it was a
tough day today. The wind was gusty, and so it -- it was hard to hit right at the right
time. And I think you saw some of the shots that Davis hit were very good shots that just
were the wrong distance, you know, wind change or whatever. I think that it was difficult
to pick the right club.  
 
Q. How much club difference was there in club selection with the wind today, do you
think? 
 
 JOHN HUSTON: Oh, probably a club-and-a-half. It was never really -- I don't think it
was ever really as hard as it was the first day. But at times it would be almost calm, and
then it would be blowing pretty hard.  
 
Q. Did you accomplish pretty much what you wanted to do starting out today? 
 
 JOHN HUSTON: Well, basically I just wanted to go out and shoot a good round. You know
it was a tough day. I don't think that you could try to say, " I want to go out and
try to shoot 62 today," on a day like today. But I've put myself in good position. If
I keep playing the way I have been playing, I should have a decent chance.  
 
Q. A couple years back you proved that you could play with anybody out here, does that
give you confidence going in to tomorrow, with Duval, Mickelson, Love, everybody working
their way up the leaderboard?
 
 JOHN HUSTON: I think any time you win a golf tournament, it gives you more confidence
for the next time. So I think that, you know, certainly the guys like Tiger have won so
many times just have that -- they have that feeling. You know, when it's been a while, it
is a little bit tougher, but you still have to just go out and do the same things and
stick to your game plan, and, you know, not get caught up in the moment when you've got
four or five, six holes to go. I don't think you can get caught up in the moment. You've
just going to, you know, stay in the present tense.  
 
Q. You went through kind of a rough stretch around the PGA Championship last year. What
did you do to turn it around from that, or is that just normal in your career, just kind
of ups and downs? 
 
 JOHN HUSTON: Yeah, I think that's normal. I think most of the guys that play a lot
through the first part of the year, really, looking for the Masters, and probably take a
little bit of time off before this stretch, which is another really good stretch leading
up to the Open. And then once the British Open is over, it's kind of -- it just feels like
you've been on the road for the whole year, and I think that that has a lot to do with it.
Certainly, by the end of the summer, most of the time, you know I'm needing a long break.
So I usually, after the PGA, take a pretty long break.  
 
 JOHN HUSTON: No. 5, I hit a 6-iron short left of the green and chipped it by about 20
feet and missed that putt; made bogey. Then No. 7, I hit a 3-wood about six feet for
eagle, and I missed that putt. No. 10, I hit 7-iron about 10 feet. And No. 11, I hit a
sand wedge about five feet. 14, I hit a pitching wedge about 15 feet.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT