GTE BYRON NELSON GOLF CLASSIC
May 12, 2000
John Huston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Did the wind die down a little bit -- at what point did it die down during your
round? Did it even come up? 
 
 JOHN HUSTON: It's hard to say. It just gradually died down during the day. But the last
five, six holes you could tell it was significantly less than it was this morning. 
 
Q. Any indications earlier in the week that, you know, this was going to be a good week
for John Huston, or do you just never know? 
 
 JOHN HUSTON: I played pretty well. I didn't touch a club for a couple weeks and started
playing the end of last week at home, and I felt like I was playing pretty well and was
looking forward to getting back out. 
 
Q. How come you didn't touch a club for a couple weeks? 
 
 JOHN HUSTON: When I go home, you know, I like to get away from it totally. It kind of
clears your head. Then right before you go back out, it's nice to get a good feel for it,
and seems to work better that way.  
 
Q. What's been your pattern of success after a layoff? Do you find that you play well
after that?
 
 JOHN HUSTON: Yeah, I do. I find that I'm certainly a little bit more patient. You know,
you feel rested, and you know, like I said, I start playing and practicing a little bit
early to make sure that I'm not rusty, for sure.  
 
Q. What do you do when you're at home on the breaks in between, just spend time with
your family?
 
 JOHN HUSTON: That's pretty much it. They are pretty busy. The kids have got a lot of
stuff going on. So, you kind of make up for the time you're not at home. 
 
Q. Little league games? 
 
 JOHN HUSTON: Yeah.  
 
Q. Would you go over your birdies and bogeys for us? 
 
 JOHN HUSTON: Sure. No. 7, I hit a 3-wood about 12 feet for eagle and missed that putt;
2-putted. And then No. 13, the par 3, I hit a 6-iron about 20 feet; made birdie there. 14,
I hit a pitching wedge about four feet. 16, I hit it in the front bunker in two and hit it
out about six inches. And then 18, I hit a 7-iron about five feet.  
 
Q. With Davis having such a lead, do you feel like you're in a pretty good spot to be
at? 
 
 JOHN HUSTON: I figure at this point in the tournament, certainly, I'd like to be where
he is, but, you know I've played well and am happy with the way I played. And if I can
keep playing that well and keep moving in the right direction, at least it will make it
tougher on him.  
 
Q. I notice you did most of your damage here on the back nine. Did that coincide with
the wind dying down? 
 
 JOHN HUSTON: Yeah, actually, I had a lot of really good chances on the front that I
didn't make. I missed about a 4-footer for birdie on the 1st hole. And two or three other
good chances; and I had the close eagle putt that I missed. But, you know, I was hitting
the ball good enough that I stayed patient, and I got it -- whenever I missed the green, I
got up-and-down; so I kept that going. You know, I just -- when you're up saving the pars,
it makes all your birdies count. So, I just tried to stay patient, you know, wait for the
birdies to present themselves. Fortunately, they did towards the end.  
 
Q. How big a difference was it scoreability-wise from the start of the round to the end
of the round today, was it that noticeable? 
 
 JOHN HUSTON: I'm sure it made a big difference because I'm sure the hardest part of the
round yesterday for the guys who played over here were the last five holes or something,
and those holes were a lot easier today. That's -- it was really calmest for us was those
last four, five, six holes.  
 
Q. You're known as a guy who can throw up a bushel of birdies all at once, do you feel
like you're in that state tomorrow where you could just come out tomorrow and just go
wild? 
 
 JOHN HUSTON: Yeah, I think it's possible because I'm hitting the ball pretty straight
off the tee, and I'm leaving myself a lot of chances with 8 - , 9-iron into the greens,
and I think I've got a pretty good feel for those shots right now. Even yesterday in the
wind, I had a pretty good feel for a lot of the shots into the green. It's just a matter
of taking advantage of those chances and keep giving yourself enough of them.  
 
Q. Were there any shots today that you were particularly proud of? 
 
 JOHN HUSTON: Well, I hit a lot of really good shots. Nothing spectacular. I hit a
really good shot into the last hole, but, you know, everything was working pretty good
today, mostly.  
 
Q. You're going to be paired with Davis tomorrow; that's a good pairing for John
Huston. 
 
 JOHN HUSTON: Yeah, Davis and I have played quite a bit together. So, you know,
certainly, I know better than to try to keep up with him and, you know, just do my own
thing. And, you know, he's been one of the best players for the whole time that I've been
on the TOUR, so, you know, it's certainly -- his record stands for itself.  
 
Q. Are you the type to glance at the leaderboard much? Did you notice that Davis was
taking off strokes as quickly as you were, or faster? 
 
 JOHN HUSTON: Yeah, I saw, but I didn't make it a point to look or make it a point not
to look. Just, if you see it, fine. I think it's nice to look up there and see your name
on the leaderboard. That's pretty much what we play for.  
 
Q. Did you hit in any bunkers over here today, any new bunkers? 
 
 JOHN HUSTON: I hit it in a couple of bunkers.  
 
Q. Were they new ones, ones that have been redone?
 
 JOHN HUSTON: I don't know. 
 
Q. Did you have any trouble getting out?
 
 JOHN HUSTON: There's a lot of sand in the bunkers, but no, I didn't have any trouble
getting out. The one or two shots that I hit in the bunker were with -- I hit one in the
bunker with a wood on the 16th hole; so, I mean, it's not as likely to bury. But I have
seen a few balls bury.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT