BELLSOUTH CLASSIC
March 31, 2000
John Huston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOHN HUSTON: Got off to a really good start. The thing that I did today was I putted
extremely well and I -- I left myself some tough shots but when I had a tough shot I hit a
good shot and kind of kept the round going.

Q. What do you feel about kind of just contending in a weekend before a major and kind
of how does that carry over and what do you look for in that respect?

JOHN HUSTON: Well, I really have no thoughts about next week right now. I am totally
concerned with this week. I don't think you can look past any tournaments, certainly this
tournament is just as big to me as anything else and right now it is first and foremost on
my mind.

Q. How has the year gone so far?

JOHN HUSTON: I got off to a good start, was playing really well with the West Coast
early and then after the first I played pretty good the first couple of days at Doral and
from then on 'til this week I did not play very well. A lot of that had to do with the
course conditions and stuff. I think this course lends -- there is a little more room off
the tee. If you miss the fairway you still got a pretty good lie, as long as you are
inside the tree line, and I think this course is more -- like most of the trouble and
stuff is around the greens. I think that I am hitting my irons pretty well and I think
that that is sort of the reason why I have -- seems like I have played better -- a little
bit better this week.

Q. 18?

JOHN HUSTON: I think it makes for an exciting finishing hole. I think that it is just
such a strange angle of the hole and I think that the slope of the fairway out there makes
it -- I mean, it makes it a difficult shot. But if it was flat out there, it would be a
really easy shot. So I -- personally I don't have any problem with that hole. There is
plenty of room to lay up if you don't hit -- if you don't want to go for it and it is not
impossible out of the back bunker, so I think it makes for a good finish.

Q. (inaudible) did you have to lay up a lot? You are a long hitter so I mean you are
coming --

JOHN HUSTON: I don't know if there is another tee back there. I don't know if I have
ever played it.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT