BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 23, 1999
John Huston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOHN HUSTON:  Okay, I had a good day.  I drove the ball really well, so -- and I hit a lot of greens, so I kept giving myself chances and then I made a lot of really good putts.  The greens over here were just great.

JOHN HUSTON:  Right out of the box, I hit a pitching wedge about ten feet and made that.

JOHN HUSTON:  15, yeah, I can't remember.  Let's see, oh yeah, I hit a 9-iron about twelve feet.  16, hit an 8-iron about ten feet.  17, I hit pitching wedge about five feet.  18, 4-wood on the green about 20 feet and 2-putted.

JOHN HUSTON:  Yeah, I hit a 6-iron about six feet.

JOHN HUSTON:  I hit a 3-wood about 20 feet and 2-putted.

JOHN HUSTON:  20.  Par 3, hit 5-iron 25 feet, made that.

JOHN HUSTON:  I hit a pitching wedge about twelve feet.

JOHN HUSTON:  There was a couple of 10-footers, but last three holes, I had two 9-irons and a wedge, and I just didn't hit it close.  Still had a couple of putts come close to go in but no lip-outs or anything.


Q.  John, did you feel like you were in a position today where you had to come out and shoot this kind of a 63 round to have a chance tomorrow?

JOHN HUSTON:  Oh, yeah.  I think definitely was perfect weather.  I think I needed and still you never know what is going to end up leading, but just happy to come in with a good score and get back closer to the lead and anything can happen tomorrow.  It is the kind of course where you can shoot really low, where you can have a bad day.  So it should be an interesting day.


Q.  Obviously you have been in this position before, leading going in and you have been in second place or close to the lead. Do you have a preference?  Some guys enjoy being a front-runner, some don't.  I wanted to know where you stand on that.

JOHN HUSTON:  I like to be in the lead.  (laughs).


Q.  If you are, say, three or four shots down, what will be  your approach going into Sunday?  Does that change at all?  Is it any different than, say, if you were tied or just a stroke back?

JOHN HUSTON:  Well, I think you have got to play pretty aggressive, but you have got to be patient too because there is -- you know, you can get on a good streak out there; especially on the back 9, there is -- it is disaster looking, but you can also -- there is some short shots into the hole and with five par 5s you can make up a lot of ground quick.  So, hopefully I get off to a good start and then everything will take care of itself.


Q.  Was it almost easy out there today?

JOHN HUSTON:  It was -- yeah, it wasn't too hard.  I was driving the course pretty easy.  Giving myself a lot of chances and I was putting really well, so I didn't feel like I had to take any chances.

JOHN HUSTON:  Thanks a lot.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT