BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 20, 1999
John Huston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOHN HUSTON:  Yes. 
 
JOHN HUSTON:  Right.  Birdied 5, 6, and 7, and eagled 8. Then I birdied 10, and, let's see, birdied 10, 13, 14 and 18. 
 
JOHN HUSTON:  I would say mainly the thing today, I putted extremely well.  I made a lot of 20-footers, so I wasn't really hitting it all that close.  I had some close, but mostly I'd say the 20-footers really made the difference in the round. 
 

Q.  How about, real quick, started with a birdie at 5, just maybe - just sequence of your shots on the birdies.
 
JOHN HUSTON:  No. 5, I hit in the green-side bunker and hit it out about four feet and then No. 6 I hit a 9-iron about four feet.  No. 7 I hit a sand wedge about ten feet and No. 8 I hit a 4-iron about 20 feet for eagle and made that one.  Then 10 I hit a 7-iron 20 feet and then No. 13 I hit a 5-iron about 25 feet.  No. 14 I hit a sand wedge about 15 feet.  Number actually No. 15 I made a good save to kind of keep it going.  I made it from the fringe for par from about 25 feet.  Then No. 18 I hit a sand wedge about four feet. 
 

Q.  Tom Pernice was telling us how he likes to play with amateurs in this kind of a format.  Are you of the same kind of feeling as far as that goes?
 
JOHN HUSTON:  Yeah, I think you just have to be patient and know that it is going to go slow and do your own thing. Usually the weather is really good year so I enjoy playing here. 
 

Q.  Do you try and just play your own game and pretend they are not there or do you try to interact with them or how do you act on the golf course with them?
 
JOHN HUSTON:  I think you interact a little bit, but you still have to concentrate on what you are doing. 
 

Q.  As a guy with a bad back and sore feet, any kind of a mattress cover you can recommend for me?
 
JOHN HUSTON:  Yeah, just a travel cover that I travel with that works out great. 
 

Q.  What is it?
 
JOHN HUSTON:  Just has magnets in the mattress cover. 
 

Q.  That does the job?
 
JOHN HUSTON:  Yeah, sure does. 
 

Q.  What is a father/child tournament? 
 
JOHN HUSTON:  Excuse me? 
 

Q.  I see where you won a father/child tournament.  How does that work?
 
JOHN HUSTON:  At Disney. 
 

Q.  Not knowing what that is, could you explain it to me?
 
JOHN HUSTON:  You play alternate shots with your kid on a little 6-hole course at Disneyworld. 
 

Q.  Is that daughter a threat?
 
JOHN HUSTON:  Yeah. 
 

Q.  John, you mentioned about sinking the 20-footers.  That is what you think it is going to take to win this tournament is the putting?
 
JOHN HUSTON:  Yeah, I think -- more so then that I think you are going to have to not make any mistakes and keep going in that direction.  I didn't make any bogeys today which, when you do that, you are going to have going to usually have a pretty good day out here. 
 

Q.  This is going through four different courses that you have to play in.  What is the -- do you take a different approach to each course or do you just have a game plan in general that you approach everything with?
 
JOHN HUSTON:  Well, I think the three courses other than the Palmer course are very similar, so, I think that you know myself I try to just hit a little run and drives on those courses and keep the ball in the fairway and then at the Palmer course the fairways are a little bigger so I kind of let it out a little bit more and, you know, it is a little bit longer course, so, you can play a little more aggressive. 
 
JOHN HUSTON:  Okay. 
 
JOHN HUSTON:  Thanks. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT