DORAL-RYDER OPEN
March 8, 1998
John Huston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOHN HUSTON:   Once again, it was a difficult day and I hung in there pretty well.  I putted really well.  I didn't hit it quite as close as I would have liked a lot of times, but I putted exceptionally well. I was pleased with the score I shot.  What can you say?  Mike played really well down the stretch and came out on top.  You've just got to congratulate him.


Q.  18, John, how far by did you go?

JOHN HUSTON:   First putt went about 10 feet by.


Q.  Was it?

JOHN HUSTON:   Yeah.


Q.  It was really fast.

JOHN HUSTON:   Yeah, it was really fast, with the wind blowing that direction and everything when it gets over that little hill and there's nothing there to stop it.


Q.  You're known for making a lot of birdies, and  the score card shows that.  What is it about your game that lends itself to a lot of birdies?

JOHN HUSTON:   I've been a pretty good putter, and I think when I'm playing well I hit the ball in the fairway, so I'm hitting it close to the hole.  And I think I take advantage of a lot of -- if I give myself a good number of birdie putts I'm probably going to make a good percentage of them.


Q.  Did you have any number in mind coming down the stretch?

JOHN HUSTON:   Yeah, I thought 10-under would be good.  I thought anything in double figures would be a good score, even when I finished, though, I thought that was a pretty good score, the way the last couple of holes were playing.


Q.  How difficult was that hour or so wait that you had?

JOHN HUSTON:   It was out of my hands at that point, so I just had to sit back and see what the other guys did.  I kind of figured when two of them got to 10-under, that one of them would par the last couple of holes and that's what happened.


Q.  Did you go to the range at all?

JOHN HUSTON:   Yes, I did.  After Billy made a bogey I went over to the range. 


Q.  There were a lot of missed short putts today coming down the stretch, can the wind be partially responsible for that?

JOHN HUSTON:   Oh, certainly, it makes it very difficult when the wind is blowing that hard.  The one putt that I did miss on 14 I could just feel the wind blowing over my left shoulder and I just pulled it feeling that wind, thinking I didn't want to lose that putt to the right.

JOHN HUSTON:   Hit a good drive on the first hole, hit 9-iron about 30 feet past the pin and made that putt, a really good jump start.  And then No. 4 I hit a 5-iron on the front of the green probably 45 feet and I made that.  No. 5, I hit a sand wedge about 15 feet.  
6, I drove it in the fairway bunker by the lip and hit it short of the green, and had about a 20-footer for par, and just made bogey.  10, I hit a 5-iron into the green, on the right fringe about 45 feet and 2-putted.  12, I hit it in the front bunker with a 3-wood and hit it out about 3 feet.  13, I hit a 3-iron over the back of the green 40 feet into the fringe and holed that.  14, I hit a pretty good tee shot and just caught the very corner of the fairway bunker and then tried to hit it in the middle of the green, I thought I had a decent shot, it went over the green, I hit a good chip, about 45 feet, and I was feeling that wind coming over my left shoulder and I pulled it.


Q.  When you had to take the special exemption this year, did you dream you'd be off to such a great start?

JOHN HUSTON:   Yeah, I figured if I got myself back to where I didn't have any pain in my shoulder and stuff and started really trying hard again and not being frustrated I still figured I knew how to play, I didn't figure it was gone.  I was hoping it wasn't gone, anyway.


Q.  Are you going to play all the Florida tournaments?

JOHN HUSTON:   Yes.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT