GINN SUR MER CLASSIC
November 1, 2008
John Huston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome John Huston into the interview after 2-under par, 70. John, could we get comments on the round? 
 JOHN HUSTON: Obviously a pretty tough day with the wind blowing, but I got off to a good start, birdied the first hole and then kind of held it together until the 9th hole, and then I hit a pretty poor second shot into the water. But then battled pretty good and made some putts on the back nine and held it together.
 THE MODERATOR: Obviously it's well known that five of your seven PGA TOUR victories have come in the state of Florida. I'm sure you'd love to make that six tomorrow.
 JOHN HUSTON: Absolutely. It makes a big difference having the comfort on the greens with the surroundings. And this is actually where I made it through Q School here, Palm Coast. I have good feelings here. Kansas Woods, 1987. 

 Q. What's it like to be in this position again within sniffing distance again, depending on what Ryan does? Obviously it's been a little while since you've had the butterflies flapping in your stomach looking ahead into a Sunday. 
 JOHN HUSTON: It's been a while since I've been real close to the lead. Probably the last five or six out of the last six or seven tournaments I've been top 20 going into the last day and I haven't been able to play very well in the last day. Whether it be shooting even, 1- or 2-under and getting lapped because it was playing easy or playing difficult, just seemed to be going the wrong direction the last day.
 So hopefully tomorrow, you know, now that I've had some chances I can put a good round together tomorrow and see what happens.

 Q. Vestiges of your old game? I mean, does it feel like it always was? Is everything working? Is there something that's going a lot better than normal?
 JOHN HUSTON: I'd like to say the putter still feels like it used to. But, honestly, quite honestly it doesn't. That's not to say I haven't putted well. I've putted pretty well this week. I probably still drive it pretty much the same.
 But it's little things, short game is not quite as good as it used to be. And putting is obviously the biggest difference, I think. Guys they get to be 40, 45 years old they'll tell you. I don't know what it is. I wish I could put my hand on it. 
 But I'd like to say I had the same feeling putting, because I'd feel like this would be my tournament to win. But you never know.

 Q. You're playing on your own number this week or are you on an exemption? 
 JOHN HUSTON: I think I was the last guy on the field to get in on my number.

 Q. You've been playing out of kind of that 150 category?
 JOHN HUSTON: The veteran member category, yeah, that category that's behind the 150. I've gotten into several tournaments. I've gotten in enough to play to not have any excuses to not play well.

 Q. Talk a little bit about tomorrow's round, bunched up at the top as it usually is heading into the final round. Just talk a little bit about the experience you'll bring to that, what it will take. 
 JOHN HUSTON: Yeah, I think there's going to be -- I think you're going to have to get off to a good start. You're going to have to have to not let it get away from you, 2 through 5. Going out on the front nine into the wind playing really hard. If you can hold it together through there and then take advantage of the holes coming back downwind and, certainly, if you're close, the last four holes are playing pretty tough.
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT