SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 22, 2013
Tobias Kamke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. KAMKE/J. Del Potro
  7‑6, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Can you just tell us a little about the match and where you thought he was vulnerable and where you were taking advantage of that?
TOBIAS KAMKE:   Yeah, I think I started pretty good.   That's important if you play against good players, that you don't let them like get away from the beginning on, and I hold serve until at least two games. 
Then I had like confidence on my game, and I felt like I can, yeah, play with him good rallies from the baseline and don't have to, like, play unbelievable to win some points.
I mean, we had some long and tough rallies, but I expected him to play like a little bit faster and that he puts more pressure on me and he gave me a little time, so it helped me a lot in the beginning.
And, yeah, I saved two set points on 5‑2, and somehow I came back in that set and had the chance to win it.   Second set after the break I felt even better.   Then he missed in the beginning some easy forehands, I think, and he was a little bit frustrated, I think.
He didn't play obviously his best tennis, but still I think I did a good job and pretty satisfied with that.

Q.   Do you mind telling me what you did during the break and how you think that enabled you to feel even better?
TOBIAS KAMKE:   Yeah, I ate a little bit and I took a quick shower and changed my stuff, because it was pretty humid out there.   So I sweat a lot and, yeah, just changed my clothes.
I was sitting with a friend of mine who lives 45 minutes from here, and, yeah, we were talking a little bit about the match but also about other stuff.
So I, like, tried to get something else in my mind, not to think too much about that match now that I'm a set up against such a good player. 
Worked out pretty well.   I was pretty relaxed when we went back out on court.   It helped me a lot.
Q.   What did you eat?
TOBIAS KAMKE:   I just had a banana or two and like a power bar.
Q.   Who is this friend and what did you guys talk about?
TOBIAS KAMKE:   He's one of my oldest friends.   Actually, he was my first tennis coach back in Germany.   He went to university in the States, and then somehow after he finished he moved here.   He lives like one‑and‑a‑half hours away from here.
He just got dad for the second time two weeks ago, and we talked a lot about his family and about his baby and his life here in the States.   We talked about old friends in Germany.

Q.   So some gossip? 
TOBIAS KAMKE:   Yeah.   (Smiling.)

Q.   It was just kind of taking your mind away?
TOBIAS KAMKE:   Yeah, and then when I heard it's 7:45 I went back to the locker at 7:30 and warmed up again and like tried to think what I want to do if I go back on court, and what I can maybe do better in the second set. 
And, yeah, worked out pretty good.

Q.   So these kinds of delays, they can work for you or against you in tennis. 
TOBIAS KAMKE:   Yeah.   Sometimes they work for you; sometimes not.   Today was a good day for me with that. 
But it's not easy.   You have your rhythm and you are used to play the whole match in one part, and already in the tiebreaker we had two short breaks.   Yeah, but the break wasn't too long, so it was okay.

Q.   Is this one of your best performances of your career?   Can you compare some others you have achieved before as a professional tennis player?
TOBIAS KAMKE:   Yeah, it was my second win over a top‑10 player.   I won already against one in 2010, which was since now my best win. 
But this one today was the same.   So I think it was one of my two best matches I've played and two best wins of my career.

Q.   Who did you beat in 2010?
TOBIAS KAMKE:   Berdych I beat in Basel. 

Q.   Can you tell me the name of your friend, your coach?
TOBIAS KAMKE:   It's Mattias, and the last name is spelled J‑a‑e‑g‑e‑r. 

Q.   Did he give you any tips or any advice?
TOBIAS KAMKE:   Not really.

Q.   Coaching?
TOBIAS KAMKE:   Not really.   No. 

Q.   Just chatting?
TOBIAS KAMKE:   Yes, just easy.   He said I did a good job in the first set, and he thought I can win the match, as well.   He gave me a little like confidence and said, Just go out and enjoy and do what you do in the first set, and then we will see.

Q.   Is this the kind of victory that sort of keeps your career chugging along? 
TOBIAS KAMKE:   Yeah, I played on tour most of the time since 2010, and if you are ranked like between where I was ranked for the last two years, you most likely lose more of your matches on the tour than you win.
A win over top‑10 player is very special for me.   Yeah, it keeps me ‑‑ like gives me motivation and shows me that I can really beat them.   Yeah, it's good.   Feels good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT