ROGERS CUP
August 10, 2009
Frank Dancevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. SIMON/F. Dancevic
  6-1, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Are you disappointed with how you played?
 FRANK DANCEVIC: I mean, to be honest, not really. Like, I've never, today -- I've never played anybody that played better than me than tonight. I mean, I played a lot of guys on tour. I played Nadal here in '07. I played a bunch of top guys, but I mean, I've never played a guy that was so on. 
 Anything I did, he had an answer for tonight. Every single ball I hit, he had an answer for. Every single serve I hit, he had a read for it. I don't know. I haven't looked at the match stats yet, but I'm guessing his winners were outrageous. I mean, he was -- that's what it felt like. I haven't looked at any of the stats yet, but it just felt like I had no chance from anywhere I played on the court. I had no chance.
 I mean, he was -- obviously he was really feeling the ball tonight. He was playing unbelievable and, I mean, he just didn't let me get back in the game. From the first point, from the first -- from the first game, I got broken. That was a little bit of a shaky game. I broke back. 
 From then on, it was -- I mean, he just had the ability to slow the match down, slow the game down and just do whatever he wanted with the ball tonight.
 Yeah, I mean, could I have gotten a couple more games? Yeah. I mean, you know, if I hit unbelievable shots, yeah, probably. But would it have made it -- would it have made it enough of a difference for me to win the match? I don't know. The guy was playing unbelievable tonight.
 I mean, you look at the guy and, you know, he's not like some overwhelming specimen. He doesn't look like he can hit the ball that hard. Surprisingly the ball comes extremely really hard. He reads the court really well. He moves unbelievably well. 
 You know, that's the reason the guy is ranked 9 in the world and that's the reason the guy beats Federer last year and makes the semifinals here in this tournament.
 I mean, he's -- I was surprised. It was my first time playing him, but I was surprised by how well he played. 

 Q. Did the environment kind of after the delays, and there's not that much -- I mean, you kind of would have had some sort of a home-court advantage that the rain delay, do you think that had some sort of effect? Did that get him to stay in his comfort zone a little more, you think? 
 FRANK DANCEVIC: I don't know. I don't know what made him play so well. I'm always surprised actually how many people stay after the rain delay. I was surprised to see anybody in the crowd. 
 But it was a pretty good atmosphere out there, just after -- what was it, a 45-minute rain delay, back on? There were quite a few people out there cheering on. That was unbelievable for the people to stay and to have that kind of atmosphere out there. 

 Q. When you compare it to your last experience here in Montreal, obviously you had a great tournament. This has to be I guess -- is it that much more disappointing considering how well you played here the last time?
 FRANK DANCEVIC: Yeah, I had a great run here in '07. It is disappointing. I wish I won the tournament this year, but you know, that's the way it goes. 
 I mean, I played a guy who was on tonight, who was extremely hot, and he was seeing the ball unbelievable. And I wasn't seeing the ball that well and, you know, it happened. That's life. I have to move on. I have to go to next week and perform next week and that's it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT