ROGERS CUP
July 21, 2008
Frank Dancevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  F. DANCEVIC/M. Ancic
6-3, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

 Q. Does it take you right back to Montreal?
 FRANK DANCEVIC: Yeah, actually it brought a couple memories back. You know, it's great playing at home. It only happens once a year, a tournament like this, a Masters. 
 And, you know, I'm happy to be back. It was my second match this year or hard courts since the grass court season, and actually since Australia since I got hurt. I wasn't quite sure exactly how I was going to be moving and feeling the ball out there. 
 I was a little bit nervous before the match not knowing exactly where my game was. It seemed like from the first ball when I started playing I felt the ball right away and I felt pretty confident out there. 

 Q. First service break. What did you see there that you were able to see to take advantage of?
 FRANK DANCEVIC: Yeah, I had an opportunity. I think that today's match was who was going to take the first ball and try to be the most aggressive on it. 
 I took my chances on some of his second serves and, you know, I hit a couple good returns quick at him and kind of caught him by surprise early in the match and got up a break. 
 You know, I was trying to stay ahead in the first set. Obviously not to get broken back, just try to stay ahead and finish the first set off to get an early lead. 
 So I'm happy to worked out for me. 

 Q. Just comment or your injury. It was your back. How much time did it knock you out?
 FRANK DANCEVIC: Yeah, I hurt my back early this year in the Australian Open. I tore some muscles and my rib attachment to my spine. I was out for about three and a half months this year. 
 It was a tough road back. A lot of fitness and a lot of strengthening in that area in my back not to reinjure it. It was crucial for me to get it strong and not be in the same shoes again where I'm injured and not able to play 100%. 
 Really happy to be back the last couple months and playing strong. 

 Q. Looking ahead to tomorrow, talk about the third seed. 
 FRANK DANCEVIC: Yeah, I mean, absolutely I'm looking forward to it. Novak is a champion and a great player. Basically there's no messing around. I'm going to have to go after it tomorrow and do the same thing I did today. 
 The guy's three in the world. I'm going to have to try to keep my focus throughout the whole match and not have any lapses. I've never played the guy before, so it's exciting for me. We'll see what happens. 

 Q. Your approach on his second serve, as you mentioned, it was key. I think it was 71% of the points you won off his second serve. 
 FRANK DANCEVIC: Sorry, what was the percent? 

 Q. 71%.
 FRANK DANCEVIC: Really? Wow, that's pretty good stats. I just took chances on the second serves. I knew that putting the ball back in the middle of the court wasn't going to do much because he was just going to run me to the other side. 
 So basically when I had my chances on his second serves I just went for it. I was feeling the ball today. I was seeing it ball pretty good. I happened to hit some good returns at the right times and that's what got me ahead.

 Q. Crowd help out a little bit?
 FRANK DANCEVIC: Absolutely. They were great out there. It's my first time playing in front of a big crowd here in Toronto. I had a wild card a few times back, but it was my first feature match here tonight. I was really impressed with the crowd and the show-up tonight. It was just really fun to play.

 Q. After the run you had in Montreal last year, did you feel greater expectations on yourself from maybe the Canadian tennis fans when you came to play this year?
 FRANK DANCEVIC: Yeah, for me I always want to do well here and play well for myself and for everybody, the fans and everybody. I try to prepare to be 100% at this event. 
 Last year I had an awesome run in Montreal, and it was almost like a dream run because I made the finals the week before and then quarters in Montreal and had an awesome match against Nadal. 
 This year is another year. All I can do is do everything I can to prepare 100% and see what happens. Today was the first day and I felt great out there. I was striking the ball well.
 Tomorrow is another day, so we'll see what happens.

 Q. Playing in front of the home crowd can be a double edged sword. You seem to thrive on the home court. Why do you think that is?
 FRANK DANCEVIC: I just-- I mean, I love playing on Centre Court. I feel at home today. I really felt at home today. You know, the crowd yelling out, Frank the Tank. I like that one. 
 It was kind of funny. I had a couple giggles. But, no, it was fun today playing, and everybody -- sort of felt like everybody was holding me under their arms. I really felt the support out there today. It was a really nice feeling. 

 Q. You seemed patient at the baseline all match. You seemed to time your approach to the net really well. Was that part of your game plan?
 FRANK DANCEVIC: Yeah, you know, I was trying to play as smart as I could out there and try to come in when he was off balance. I was trying not to give him a chance to step into the ball and hit passing shots past me. 
 He hit a couple, but I was trying to just open the court up and stay aggressive and make him hit passing shots on me when he was off balance today, and it seemed to work for me a little bit. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT