ROGERS MASTERS
August 8, 2007
Frank Dancevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 

 Q.  How much of a factor was the wind out there today? 
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  Yeah, the wind was unbelievable.  On one side of the court, the ball, it was so difficult to serve.  The ball would just all of a sudden catch a whiff of wind and really be difficult to control. 
 On the side where he was serving at 5-All, I was serving at 6-5 to close out the match, I tried to take my opportunity at 5-All in the third set because I knew it was really windy on that side.  You could tell by the shirts, by your shirt, just how windy it was.  I tried to take my opportunity to break.  I got a little lucky on one ball, lob over his head on the line, broke and then had to serve it out in the wind, which was pretty stressful, too (laughter). 

 Q.  That shot in particular looked like you short-hopped it between your legs.  Could you ever imagine making a shot like that in that situation? 
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  He just gave me one more opportunity to hit a ball.  He hit a volley up high at the net.  It was a little bit windy.  If it wasn't windy, it probably would have been a clean winner.  The ball was kind of waving through the air.  He gave me one more opportunity.  Somehow I got my racquet on it, got it over his head. 
 Basically at that point of the match, 5-All in the third, breakpoint, I was just trying to make every ball in the court. 

 Q.  Once you had a few of the miss-hits with the wind, did that make you back off a little bit, feel your way through? 
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  Well, it was just really difficult to play on that side.  I knew how difficult it was for myself.  It was really difficult, the contrast.  On one side it was completely calm and on the other side you had all of a sudden this gust of wind on you.  It was a really hard north wind. 
 I just knew, like shanking those balls, I knew when he went on the other side, it was going to be just as difficult for him to play on that side. 

 Q.  Do you feel yourself getting more comfortable in the environments like you were today? 
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  I mean, absolutely.  I think every match I play in an environment like this, I played more stadium matches I think this year than regular matches.  I think in that environment, playing against top players week after week definitely helps out. 

 Q.  As far as playing those top players, finding success, the confidence that must come from that. 
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  Absolutely.  Every win you gain confidence from.  Last week, like I said earlier, I wasn't really expecting -- I was hoping to get through my second-round match.  I got through and ended up running all the way to the final.  It was a little bit of a surprise to me.  I gained some confidence from it.  I tried to take it and use it for this week also. 

 Q.  What do you know about Verdasco? 
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  I think he has a little bit of a similar game style than Odesnik.  Maybe a little or aggressive, a little bit bigger serve.  Never played him before, so I'm not quite sure.  Maybe my coach watched him a little bit, know a little bit more tactically what to do. 

 Q.  You've had two seeds fall out in front of you.  Do you feel lucky? 
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  Yeah, I guess I feel a little lucky.  Anybody who's in the third round, who's beaten seeds, is playing just as well as a seed.  I think when it comes to these big tournaments, a guy who is 20 or 30 in the world can beat a guy eight in the world any day if they have a good day and the other guy is just a bit off. 
 But we'll see.  I'm just trying to think about myself right now and trying to focus on what I have to do and serve well and return well and that's it. 

 Q.  Particularly on that one side, did you feel you were tempted when you made approach shots? 
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  On the windy side? 

 Q.  Yes. 
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  I'm going to go work on that in practice.  I made a couple errors I didn't want to make on that side.  I think it was a little bit of footwork.  Just going to go out on the practice court and clean it up for my next match. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT