ROGERS MASTERS
August 6, 2007
Frank Dancevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Frank. 

 Q.  When you got the ace to end the match, how did that feel to get that first one out of the way? 
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  Yeah, I mean, I got a little nervous there with the Hawk-Eye, to check the serve if it was in or not.  When it ended up being on the line, I was pretty excited.  I wasn't really thinking too much about the ace; I was just pretty excited to get through my first match. 
 First rounds are the toughest to get through, no matter who you are, top seed or anybody in the draw.  It's the first match.  Everybody's trying to get into the tournament and stuff.  I was pretty pleased I got through tonight. 

 Q.  Looking ahead to the next match.  Your path in the tournament seems like you're going to be facing a guy who upset the 11th seed this afternoon but you're familiar with. 
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  You know, I haven't really played Wayne in a long time.  Obviously last week he beat the guy I beat tonight.  Not sure how far he got in Washington.  He also beat a guy who was 11 in the world today. 
 Obviously he's playing with a lot of confidence.  He's playing with confidence and it's going to be interesting to see how it goes out there.  It's going to take a little bit of games to get into the match, to see how he's playing, what game style and stuff.  Just see how it goes. 

 Q.  You dominated with the serve in the first set.  Did you have a feeling the same thing you did to him might happen to you? 
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  Well, I mean, you know, I started off sharp today.  I think my serve held me up, took me through the match.  I had a little bit of a lapse in the second set.  I played a couple points I wasn't really focusing.  I missed two balls, and that cost me the whole second set.  He came up with two good balls after that, broke me, ended up holding strongly throughout the set. 
 I wasn't too concerned losing the second set because I knew he wasn't really playing a lot better than I was.  We were pretty much even.  But it was just a couple points that changed the set.  I went into the third set with just as much confidence as the first. 

 Q.  What do you think is really working that's gotten you to the final of Indianapolis and through the first round here? 
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  I think that my serve, I feel a lot of confidence with my serve.  Getting a lot of returns back, I think that's helped me out a bit because it's putting pressure on the guys, on their serve.  Holding pretty comfortably most of the time, getting a lot of balls back on their serves, that's been helping me out quite a bit. 
 Pretty much that and obviously a little bit of confidence from last week.  I never won two matches in a row in a tour event.  Then going through to the final, gained a lot of confidence from that.  Yeah, that's about it, you know.  I can't really pinpoint one thing that really made a difference in my game. 

 Q.  Have you ever felt this hot before? 
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  This hot?  Well, I don't know.  I mean, obviously like I'm playing with a little bit of confidence right now.  I'll see how far I can go with it, see how far I can take it. 
 Obviously the results last week and right now show that, you know, I haven't really had results like that in the past, so I'm playing a little bit better than I was in the past.  That's it.  Just excited to see how I'm going to, you know, get through the next month and the rest of the year. 

 Q.  Did you feel some pressure here to win at least a match because it's your home tournament but also because of all the good results you had? 
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  Obviously I felt a little bit of pressure.  I feel pressure every time I go out on court.  I want to play well for myself, especially in Canada.  I want to play well for the people, in front of the audience.  They paid their tickets to watch me play, to watch me and the other guy play.  So obviously like I want to go out this and play really well, you know. 
 I guess it's kind of a little bit different type of pressure, but more of an exciting type of pressure.  But, yeah, I feel a little pressure, sure. 

 Q.  Would you have liked to play the earlier match with more fans there? 
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  I mean, no one could have predicted today the weather and the rain.  I guess that didn't really make a difference 'cause the match just went really long, the match before me. 
 I mean, I was pretty happy with everything today.  The fans were great out there.  I couldn't believe even how many fans stayed out so late to watch my match.  I was pretty pleased about that. 

 Q.  Do you have any history at all with Odesnik?  Are you familiar with him? 
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  I've played him a few times in the past, like years ago.  He's a lefty.  He's got a solid baseline game, pretty good forehand.  I think he works around the court, good returns and stuff. 
 I haven't really seen him play lately.  I don't really know.  Hopefully my coach saw a little bit of the match, can tell me more about it.  Going into the match right now, I don't really know his game style that much. 

 Q.  What are the weak points you want to work on? 
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  Like I said, just my focus a little bit.  I got down a couple service games in the second set.  I let the second set slip.  My focus a little bit, I'm going to try to sharpen that up for the next match and try to stay focused through the match. 

 Q.  How hard does he hit? 
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  I was surprised by the way he hits his backhand, really hard.  It goes through the court really hard.  Obviously his serve's pretty big.  He's a big guy.  He hits the ball pretty hard.  I hit a couple serves and some returns came back at me really hard.  I felt kind of lucky to win a few points on that third ball. 

 Q.  What did you think of his second serve? 
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  His second serve, it came up pretty high because he's a tall guy.  It came up pretty high.  Somehow I was able to just use my slice and get a lot of balls back in. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT