ROGERS MASTERS
August 9, 2006
Frank Dancevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  Did you feel overmatched out there tonight?   
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  Yeah.  I mean, he played pretty solid.  He made very little unforced errors out there.   
 I'm a little disappointed about the way I played.  I think I could have played better than that.  I made much too many unforced errors than I would like.   
 The guy is top 15.  He's not going to give you the match.  You've got to go out and win it.  I mean, I didn't really perform as well as I liked.  I mean, the score shows that.   
  
  Q.  What was the difficulty with holding serve in the first set?   
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  Yeah, I mean, I've been having some problems like all week.  In the doubles a little bit yesterday, got broken a couple times.  Today my back has been bothering me on my serve.   
 The first set, it was a little tight.  Then it kind of loosened up in the second set and I played better.  I was able to serve better in the second set.   
 I mean, basically I just made way too many mistakes out there today to win that match.  That's what I'm disappointed about.   
  
  Q.  Did you feel your best chance, you break the opening game, if you can go up a break as opposed to giving it back, at least you're on some kind of roll?   
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  Yeah, in the second set, I mean, when it was 3-All, I had chances.  If I held there, things could have turned in a different way at 3-All I think it was in the second, or 3-4.  I got broken.  It was a close game.  Could have gone either way.   
 I mean, you know, like I said, against a guy like that, 15, you get broken, that's it, match over, 5-3 in the second.   
  
  Q.  You said your goal this year was to make the top hundred.   
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  Yup.   
  
  Q.  Now how do you feel after playing a match like that?  Do you feel like top 50 is reasonable?  Top 20?   
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  Yeah, well, exactly, my goal for this year was to break the top hundred.  I've been kind of lingering around 180 for the last two years.  I've achieved that goal now, top hundred.   
 I mean, obviously I've got to step up my game now.  Playing against guys like this who are top 20, I have to do more with my shots, do more with the ball to win matches.  I'm just going to go out there and train harder and work harder on what I have to do.  I mean, just try to improve my game even more, try to get my level even higher.  So that's going to be my goal for the next months.   
 I mean, few years coming up, you know, just push as hard as I can.   
  
  Q.  What's your schedule for the rest of the year?   
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  Probably playing the US Open quallies, rest my back a bit for the next week, playing the US Open quallies.  There's some tour events and stuff I'll probably get into towards the end of the year in Asia and Europe.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT