ROGERS MASTERS
August 7, 2006
Frank Dancevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  Frank, how did you feel out there?   
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  Yeah, I mean, I felt pretty good.  I was playing pretty well.  I mean, it's an unfortunate scenario that two Canadians had to play each other first round.  I know Petie really well.  He's a good buddy of mine.   
 I mean, he played an unbelievable match out there.  I mean, I was really impressed by the way he was playing.  Especially, I mean, people know what happened, he had an accident months ago.  To recover and to come back and play like that, I mean, I was amazed.   
  
  Q.  This is the fourth time you've played here.  Tough matches in the past.  This was a match you were expected to win.  3-1 down in the first set tiebreaker, did you have any thoughts this might not be your day or were you confident the whole time?   
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  I mean, the way Pete was playing the first set, I didn't know what was going to happen (laughter).  He was playing really well.  I mean, he just gave me a few points in the breaker that I took advantage of.  I ended up winning the first set.   
 I mean, we were pretty much head-to-head for a set.   
  
  Q.  When you're playing someone that's a friend, do you try to shut off the fact that he is a friend on the other side?  I assume you hit a lot together, I don't know.  Did that give you an advantage?  Did you know what to expect from him out there?   
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  Actually, like, yeah, I mean, know Petie.  We've practiced in the past, but not enough to where I knew all his strengths and weaknesses.   
 I mean, it was a little bit difficult playing Petie, you know, I mean, just because of everything, you know, what happened, his recovery and everything.  I think, you know, it was a great experience for him just being out there playing in the main draw of a Masters Series.   
 But I think that, you know, I was just -- I was going out there before the match just wanting, you know, a good match and expecting to just play some good tennis out there, for us to have fun and just have a really good match.  And that's what happened.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the experience of playing in a tournament at this level and how that affects your game, whether you were happy with the way you played?   
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  Yeah, I mean, this is a great event for me to play in Canada, in front of my home crowd and stuff.  I've been playing all year away in tournaments.  I've been doing pretty well.  I've been winning some matches and stuff.   
 But it's always great to be at home, to feel at home, to be playing in front of your home fans.  That's always the best feeling.   
  
  Q.  As a young guy coming up, what does Daniel Nestor mean to Canadian tennis?   
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  Yeah, I mean, Dan, he's a great guy.  I mean, teammates, Davis Cup and stuff.  I mean, he has so much experience and stuff, you know, with just everything.  He's been on the tour for a long time.  All his results, his wins, his doubles achievements.  I mean, he's a great guy to be around.   
 I mean, all of us have learned tons from him in the locker room and on court.   
  
  Q.  You've been the shining young hope of Canadian tennis for several years now.  You're into the top 100 for the first time.  How do you feel in terms of your growth and learning curve, where you want to be?   
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  Yeah, well, I started off this year like ranked about 200.  My goal this year was to break the top hundred by the end of the year.  It happened a little early.  I mean, I'm pretty happy with that.   
 Nothing.  I just got to sit down, maybe make some new goals for the end of the year, for the start of next year.   
  
  Q.  What do you think it means for Canadian tennis for you to be the first one to crack the top hundred in five years?   
 FRANK DANCEVIC:  Uhm, I think it's good.  I hope, you know, we get things going a little bit.  It's been a little slow the last few years, getting singles players into the top hundred, the top 50.   
 I think things are turning around in a good way.  We got a lot of young guys coming up and stuff.  Hopefully I can get that ball rolling a bit.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT