ROGERS MASTERS
August 9, 2005
Frank Dancevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  What was the difference out there today? 
 
FRANK DANCEVIC:  Well, you know, I think that I was -- I mean, obviously I made way too many unforced errors.  Just didn't match it today with Xavier.  He played a pretty solid match.  He served pretty well.  He didn't make too many mistakes.  I mean, he just played solid.  I think I pretty much beat myself out there today.  
 
Q.  What kind of expectations did you have for this week, coming in?
 
FRANK DANCEVIC:  Last couple months have been kind of like an uphill battle for me.  I've been injured week after week, starting the first week of Wimbledon.  I had hip injuries.  I mean, pretty much haven't been able to train and haven't had the results I would like the last couple months.  The last two weeks I played Granby and Vancouver, and I sort of got myself a little together.  But, I mean, even there I was expecting to do a lot better.  I mean, my body wasn't there to cooperate.  I mean, obviously it wasn't enough preparation to go into this event and play a top guy like Xavier today.  
 
Q.  Do you feel you were physically hampered today?  Was it lack of conditioning as a result of injuries?
 
FRANK DANCEVIC:  Like now, I didn't feel so bad out there.  I mean, it was just -- it's the lack of training the last couple months that has to be put on court that I haven't been able to do.  I couldn't get the feel of the ball out there today.  
 
Q.  Was it more technical than physical, though? 
 
FRANK DANCEVIC:  It's more of a technical thing.  I mean, setting up for the ball, you know, movement, that sort of thing.  I felt a little slow.  My reaction time was a little slow out there.  
 
Q.  Are all the injuries more or less healed?
 
FRANK DANCEVIC:  They're getting together.  I've been working with Marlene Nobrega all week.  She's been working on me like two to three hours a day trying to get things together.  I was a wreck two days ago, but she started getting me a little better yesterday, and I was starting to feel a little better today.  You got to be a lot more prepared to play this event.  
 
Q.  What is your schedule like?  Are you going to take some time off?
 
FRANK DANCEVIC:  Yeah, well, right now, just my main goal is -- I mean, I'm taking some time off before The Open, get my body good through rehab, get my body and everything kind of put together for Wimbledon -- sorry, US Open quallies, the weeks coming up after that.  
 
Q.  What are the injuries you're recovering from?
 
FRANK DANCEVIC:  I had hip injuries, bursitis in my hip.  Lower back strain.  
 
Q.  Will you do anything between the US Open and Davis Cup?
 
FRANK DANCEVIC:  Well, I've got to check my schedule for now to see, you know, what I want to be playing, what I don't.  I'm going to sit down with my coach and see what we're going to do about that.  
 
Q.  Considering the lack of training, any sort of short-term goals you set for yourself?
 
FRANK DANCEVIC:  Well, like, you know, I'd like to get into the top hundred by the end of this year, get my body together, put some good practice in, just push hard.  I want to break the top hundred by the end of the year.  That's my main goal for now.  
 
Q.  Do you have an idea what you're going to play?  Obviously, some indoor events in Europe. 
 
FRANK DANCEVIC:  I'm deciding now whether I should play the challengers in the States or the indoor events in Europe.  I'm still deciding on like that.  Like I say, I'm going to sit down with my coach John Sorbo and decide what I should be playing and what I shouldn't be.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT