COUPE ROGERS
August 6, 2013
Frank Dancevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. DANCEVIC/Y. Lu
  5‑7, 7‑6, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Happy with the way you're playing?
FRANK DANCEVIC:   Yeah.   I mean, I thought I served really well today.   Sort of kept me in the match.   The first set I had some opportunities; didn't take advantage of them.   Ended up slipping away.   Played a loose game the first couple games in the second set.   I was kind of in trouble there in the match, down 7‑5, a break. 
Just started going for a little bit more.   Stepped it up a little bit with my forehand, started moving my forehand around the court a little bit.   Seemed like it put a little more pressure on him to go for a little bit more, he started making more unforced errors. 
In the third set I just started going after his serve a little bit more.   Seemed like he was struggling a little bit on his serve.   Just trying to put pressure on that part of his game.   Ended up working out for me.

Q.   Four Canadians in the second round, one more possibly tonight.   What does that say about Canadian tennis right now?
FRANK DANCEVIC:   It's amazing.   It's a Masters Series event.   It's not even a Grand Slam where some guys are ranked in the hundreds.   Pretty much everybody you play here is a high‑level player in the top 50.   To have four guys through the first round shows a lot in how far Canadian tennis has come along. 
It's great to see.   It's really great to see.   It's been showing up more and more in all the tournaments, all the Grand Slams.   There's just more and more of us starting to go through. 

Q.   You felt you could be a top 100 player again.   Does a win like this reinforce that?
FRANK DANCEVIC:   I feel like my level is in the top 100 of the game.   I feel like, you know, my main focus right now is just to keep doing my homework, keep doing what I'm doing.   I'm on a pretty decent path right now.   I've had a pretty decent last month, a good win today. 
Just keep doing my homework week after week and hopefully I get a break this year and I can jump back into the top 100. 

Q.   What will this do for your confidence because you've been doing quite well lately?
FRANK DANCEVIC:   I mean, it's great.   I mean, I'm really happy that I got through today's match.   It's not a monster confidence booster, I wouldn't say.   I just feel like I'm playing good tennis.   That's more of a confidence boost right there, knowing I'm serving well and playing well. 
I mean, sometimes you play a guy who is ranked top 10 in the world, but he's playing like he's 100 that day.   You play a guy who is ranked 100 in the world, he's playing like he's top 10. 
You can't gauge it against guys who you've beaten, it's more how you're playing yourself.   I feel like I'm playing good.   That's what gives me a positive vibe. 

Q.   You all play Davis Cup together as a team.   Here you're here as individuals.   Do you still feel like a team with Vasek and Milos?
FRANK DANCEVIC:   Yeah, absolutely.   We all get along really great.   We spent a lot of time together this year during Davis Cup, during those weeks.   It's cool.   It's fun to see.   We're buddies, we're all going through to the second and hopefully deeper in this tournament. 

Q.   What do you think about your next opponent?
FRANK DANCEVIC:   Well, I expect him to serve really, really slow and to just hit little five‑mile‑an‑hour first serves in the court, and I expect to serve bombs the whole match, and we'll see (laughter). 
I think it's pretty much going to be who can serve better, who is going to be better on the pressure points on the serve.   He obviously serves really well.   That's his main weapon in his game.   He proved that this year at Wimbledon. 
Courts are playing pretty fast this year.   I feel that it's just going to be a matter of hopefully I can get a break and hold serve the rest of the match.   It's pretty simple.   It's not that simple when you're out there, I promise you guys. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French. 

Q.   You had lost your last three matches here in the Rogers Cup.   Is it good to finally win one here?   What made the difference today? 
FRANK DANCEVIC:   Yes, it's good to have a victory here.   I always played well here in the Rogers Cup, but I was unlucky.   I played very good players. 
But today I felt really good on the court.   I felt confident. 

Q.   You've been improving your level of game lately.   Is there anything special that made it happen?
FRANK DANCEVIC:   The most important thing for me is that now I am extremely fit.   My physical conditioning is good.   I'm not injured.   This is because I worked a lot on my fitness and also on recuperating after matches.   It helps me a lot, like today.   The first two sets were very long.   He also has a very good physical conditioning.   It was a help for me that I felt good. 

Q.   There are four Canadian players in the second round in this tournament.   Is it good? 
FRANK DANCEVIC:   It's great that all the Canadian players were able to win their first round.   Maybe there will be another one with Milos this evening.   I believe Canadian tennis improved a lot.   This kind of thing wouldn't have been possible 10 years ago. 
The Federation is doing a lot for tennis and is headed in the right direction. 

Q.   Is it good to show that in Canada there is not only Milos who can play well? 
FRANK DANCEVIC:   What Milos has done is extremely good, but there are many other very good players.   All the players on the Davis Cup team are able to beat the best players in the world. 
Of course, Milos did a lot for Canadian tennis, but there's a lot more depth in Canadian tennis. 

Q.   Your next match will be Janowicz.   You played him last year.   What is the key to beat him?
FRANK DANCEVIC:   I believe the serve will be the key.   Last time we played it was in very different conditions.   It was indoors, a challenger, and he was top 200 in the world.   It was a year and a half ago. 
He's been improving a lot since then.   The key will be the serve and also returning well to have an opportunity to break him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT