CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: FLORIDA VS VIRGINIA
December 28, 2019
David Reese II
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  This is your defense's last chance, this defense, this year, to prove you're an elite defense. Do you think this is kind of a statement game for you?  
DAVID REESE II: I wouldn't say that, but definitely so, we're always trying to put our best foot forward when we show up, and we're definitely going to come with our "A" game. We're preparing for this game as serious as any other game that we ever had. We have free time here, but we got much of our work done back in Gainesville and prepared for the week a week early as if we had a game last week. So we're excited for this opportunity, and we know what we have to do.   
 Q.  Do you think this is an elite defense?  
DAVID REESE II: Yeah, I think we have an elite defense, especially when we're on the same page. I think we're probably the best defense in the country if we're on the same page and everyone is healthy.   
 Q.  Speaking of back in Gainesville, how did your senior tackle go?  
DAVID REESE II: It went well.   
 Q.  I would expect you to have the best form.  
DAVID REESE II: No, I didn't even hit the bag like tackle-tackle. I just pushed it to the ground. I forgot who got on it real sweated up. I think Bull. Yeah, like the bag was all drenched in sweat and stuff like that.   
 Q.  So you slipped?  
DAVID REESE II: Yeah, I just punched it down.   
 Q.  How did your speech go?  
DAVID REESE II: I just told the guys like if they ever needed me, they could always call me, I would be there for them, even after football. Basically I was just thanking the coaches and everybody that came and just reflecting on it. I was just thinking about all the connections that I made and all the memories that I have there.   
 Q.  Is it weird to say that after Monday it's over?  
DAVID REESE II: Yeah. You know, I really haven't thought about it. I just feel like it's the next stage of my life that's coming up. You know, nothing good lasts forever. It's just another stage, and becoming a person, becoming a young man becoming a young adult, ready to go out in this world and do something positive for my life.   
 Q.  I know you still have one more game, but looking ahead, the way the spread has come into college and now the NFL, middle linebacker is almost becoming a little bit of a lost art. Is there anything different you feel like you need to do during workouts, combine, things like that?  
DAVID REESE II: I feel like I have played a lot, and I feel like everybody just wants to see me test. I'm excited about that, and I'm excited to get in the combine training soon enough.   
 Q.  How do you stop Bryce Perkins?  
DAVID REESE II: You put pressure on him and make him beat us with his arm, not his feet. That's the biggest thing.   
 Q.  How can you do that?  
DAVID REESE II: Just put pressure on him, blitz. We've got great pass rushers. That's what we're going to do.   
 Q.  Virginia may be one of the few teams in the country that blitzes as much as Todd Grantham. Do you feel like going up against -- having the Gators' offense go against y'all in practice, how much will that help you?  
DAVID REESE II: Yeah, we definitely do that. We go good-on-good, our offense definitely sees a lot of blitzes, especially being against Todd Grantham's defense, so they should be prepared for that. That means a lot of one-on-one match-ups. I don't know if their DBs got our one-on-ones on the wide receivers. I like our wide receivers in a one-on-one match-up if they do decide to blitz.   
 Q.  And their offense, is Bryce Perkins the key?  
DAVID REESE II: Yeah, he's the thing that makes their offense go around.   
 Q.  When you've put focus on guys this year, you've been able to stop them. Is this the same kind of mentality?  
DAVID REESE II: Definitely, definitely.   
 Q.  Does that give you confidence going into this one knowing that you can put your focus on one guy?  
DAVID REESE II: No, I wouldn't even say confidence because we've still got to play to win. We've still got a game plan. It just gives us an extra chip on our shoulder to know that this is the guy that has a great day against defenses running and passing the game. He had two 300-yard passing games. Just excited to show what we can do, what we're capable of, and go out on the right foot.   
 Q.  What do you think these last two years have meant to bringing you back to being up among the national contenders?  
DAVID REESE II: I feel like it's great. I feel like we had two top-10 years back to back, and next step is a championship. I feel like a championship is coming soon. And then you know, just shows you how hard we worked just for one extra win. Next thing you know, if we get one extra win to next year, we're contenders in the playoffs.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT