U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2000
Javier Sanchez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 JAVIER SANCHEZ: Just chasing that one ball and shooting low numbers. It's hard. It's
hard to get into the local, the section qualifier. I was very fortunate to be playing good
at the time. And it seems like when the summer comes around, my game gets a little bit
better. 
 
Q. You've made the cut one time; right?
 
 JAVIER SANCHEZ: That's correct. 
 
 JAVIER SANCHEZ: That's correct. That's a great feeling to get into the championship and
make the cut and be here for the weekend. The previous three Opens I played, it was just
-- I felt like the fourth, I felt more comfortable. I played good. It was a thrill to be
here for the weekend and play in front of all those people.  
 
 JAVIER SANCHEZ: My aspirations is just to keep playing. And hopefully to be playing on
the PGA TOUR, BUY.COM TOUR, SENIOR TOUR. I'm 41 years old and feeling pretty good, so
that's my aspiration, to keep playing.  
 
Q. For those of us who don't know your background, you started out cutting meat at the
Palo Alto Municipal Golf Course, is that correct, and knew nothing about golf whatsoever,
but you started playing. The last time I saw you, you shot 28 on the backside of Alameda.
It's still a course record?
 
 JAVIER SANCHEZ: I came to the States at 17; didn't speak English. Just like a lot of my
friends, came here and looked for a job. I was very fortunate to have an uncle that lived
in the States. And they brought me over, and I started working very hard a couple of jobs,
sending my money back to Mexico, for my parents, because we lived on a farm up in the
mountains with no running water, no electricity. And it was very hard to make a good
living there. After I got to the States, I started working hard and somehow I got a job at
the golf course working in the restaurant, dishwashing. And they moved me up to the
kitchen. And I know they told me something about Tom Watson and the U.S. Open shooting 62.
I play a lot of golf courses. In '87, '88, I think I played on the college golf team. I
started winning a lot of amateur golf tournaments. In 1990, I believe I made a decision to
turn professional, and a lot of my friends said, "You haven't got what it takes, it's
going to be hard." I went with my gut instincts and playing professional golf, and
I've been doing that since then. I've been out playing, and it's just tough to make a
living. But so far, it's been good to me, and as long as I can support my family, that's
what I'm going to end up doing, and hopefully some day get to the PGA. 
 
Q. Back when you were 17 years old, I've got to ask, in your wildest dreams back then,
did you think, hey, one day I'll be playing in a U.S. Open?
 
 JAVIER SANCHEZ: I didn't know anything about golf. So I had no idea until in 1982 when
Tom Watson was there at Pebble Beach, golf on TV, and a lot of people asked me, "Do
you know Lee Trevino or Jack Nicklaus"? And I had no idea who those guys were. And
that's why this Open is special to me, to come down here, a lot of friends around the
area, and definitely I was trying very hard to get here. 
 
Q. Tell us what you're doing right now, where you're playing, and give us the state of
your game right now?
 
 JAVIER SANCHEZ: I've been playing the T.C. Jordan Tour. I've been qualifying for some
tournaments. I've been playing pretty good the last couple of months. I won a tournament
at the end of the year, had two second-place finishes and I've been in the top-10 quite a
few times. I feel good about my game. This is a very hard golf course. And as long as I
keep it in the short grass, I think I'll be okay. 
 
Q. You mentioned you came to the country, did you ever have a close call with
deportation?
 
 JAVIER SANCHEZ: Yes. There was a couple of times I was working in Palo Alto, and a lot
of the immigration came and chased us around the place, and we snuck out in the rooms
until they left. It was a lot of close calls. 
 
Q. I think what you were saying, you worked at a golf club, is that right, in the golf
kitchen? Did you say you worked in a golf club kitchen? What were you earning when you
were doing that?
 
 JAVIER SANCHEZ: In the restaurant?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 JAVIER SANCHEZ: I can remember it was like $2.50, $3, something like that.  
 
Q. How old were you when you started playing golf? And can you talk about when you made
the decision to start playing, how that came about?
 
 JAVIER SANCHEZ: When I first started, I was 21. When I decided to turn pro, I believe I
was 31. 
 
Q. Having been here a few times, have you gotten where people actually do recognize you
here like other players and fans and people who follow you a lot?
 
 JAVIER SANCHEZ: Oh, yes. I know a lot of the players, from being here four times. Also
from playing the Nike, a lot of people from there. A lot of guys congratulated me from
getting here, and I know a lot of guys. I feel pretty comfortable.  
 
Q. Will you have family members at the tournament this week? As you said, your parents
are in the area.
 
 JAVIER SANCHEZ: My parents live about an hour and a half from here. I have my wife, my
mother, my father-in-law, and my brother-in-law is coming tomorrow. A lot of friends that
are around here. But my wife is here, and this is very special. 
 
Q. Who were the great Mexican golfers?
 
 JAVIER SANCHEZ: There's only a few, Raphael Alarcon, Esteban Toledo from Mexico,
they're really good friends of mine. There's just a few guys that they play on the Tour or
they're pretty good golfers. 
 
Q. What's the facet of your game that's kept you from making the PGA TOUR or make the
BUY.COM spot regularly, that you find for qualifiers, but that you don't find regularly?
 
 JAVIER SANCHEZ: I wish I knew. I think -- I really can't pinpoint anything, because I
hit the ball pretty straight. I really don't know. I wish I knew. I'll keep looking for a
answer. 
 
Q. You came to the United States. Can you go through how you came? You came in
illegally -- how did you get here, the method you used to get into the country?
 
 JAVIER SANCHEZ: I came with my uncle in Tijuana. We borrowed a green card from another
guy; paid him $50. He got me across the border, ran me to Redwood City, and that's where I
got started. 
 
Q. You went through Immigration normally?
 
 JAVIER SANCHEZ: Right. It was at night. I was very nervous. I was sitting on the
passenger seat in the car and my uncle said, "Don't say anything, I'll take care of
it." So I told him I couldn't say anything, because I didn't speak any English.  
 
Q. You started so late, how could you possibly work and pick up the game, or were you
out there at midnight hitting balls -- picking up the game so quickly at, what, 21?
 
 JAVIER SANCHEZ: You know, working, for me, wasn't hard at all, because I'm used to
working very hard in Mexico. Working on the golf course, after I got done from work, going
out and practice. It was a piece of cake. I spent a lot of hours in the dark. I used to
putt with the lights on the parking lot, they'd shine on the putting green. I used to play
there until 9:00, 10:00. And I put in a lot of hard work. Like I said, working hard for me
is not a problem. I saw the opportunity to play the game of golf, which I love, and I've
been giving it 100%, and that's what got me here.  
 
Q. A lot of people try to give golf -- improve their golf game, but that dramatic of a
improvement, were you a good athlete before you played golf? Did you play soccer?
 
 JAVIER SANCHEZ: I grew up playing soccer; so I went fast. So coming across the ball, I
wasn't scared, because I had to run from Immigration. So it was no problem. I always liked
sports. Whatever I take, I used to like to get good at it. Golf seemed to really take
everything away for me, and put everything to golf. It was just like a game that I really
liked.  
 
Q. When you started out as you did, where did you begin? Where did you -- where was
your first lesson, what did you do and how did you begin to play the game? Did anybody
help you? Did anybody give you any instruction?
 
 JAVIER SANCHEZ: I started -- I bought some used clubs, after they told me: "You
should go play golf; you work here." I saw the people out here, and I had no idea
what they were doing. But I was very interested in finding out. So I got some golf clubs,
a bag, and I used to go to the driving range and not even hit a ball but just watch people
swing. And later on when everybody kind of would leave, I kind of started imitating. And
then I started hitting the ball up in the air and fell in love with the game. Later on
Hank Polex teaching at Palo Alto Community gave me some instructions, and I went from
there. 
 
 JAVIER SANCHEZ: How far do I hit it? Well, 350 -- let's see -- no. I probably hit about
260, 265, somewhere around there.  
 
 JAVIER SANCHEZ: I don't know. I just try to make as less putts as I can, and that's
about it.  
 
 JAVIER SANCHEZ: I've been putting pretty good right now. So hopefully 1-putt every
green out here. 
 
Q. What were some of the jobs you had when you came to the States? 
 
 JAVIER SANCHEZ: My first job was a dishwasher in a Mexican restaurant. My second job
was working at the Holiday Inn in Palo Alto. My third job was a restaurant, also, which
was the Harry's Hoffbrau, and they bought the restaurant at the golf course, and that's
how I ended up at the golf course. And then from there I got a job on the grounds crew at
the golf course.  
 
 JAVIER SANCHEZ: I hope so. I'd like to be here.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT