COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF SEMIFINAL AT THE CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: CLEMSON VS OKLAHOMA
December 27, 2015
Charone Peake
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What do you remember about that game in 2011 and how that put you guys on the road to where you are now?  
CHARONE PEAKE: Yeah, it was a very ugly loss, but it was a tight game going into halftime.  We had that turnover, they had that long fumble recovery for a touchdown, and that kind of led to a lot of wrong things.  I think that loss itself helped us improve as a program and how to prepare for a bowl game.  A lot of guys were drained before the game even started.  Mentally they weren't there, and it showed on film.   
 Q.  Offenses these days have become so much about 50/50 balls, who wins those individual battles.  Why has it become such a big factor in offenses these days?  
CHARONE PEAKE: I think because of the way -- these freaks we have in the game now.  We have like Odell Beckham as receivers as stuff.  Knowing how athletic those guys are, you just throw it up, and either you're going to catch it or you're not.   
 Q.  Basically it's almost impossible to defend if you've got a guy that can go get it, right?  
CHARONE PEAKE: Yeah, exactly.  That's why -- that guy that ran them up, it's probably not even 50/50, it's more like 80/20.  That's what teams are really looking for, receivers like that.   
 Q.  And the way Deshaun throws the deep ball, right, it's almost perfect for your offense?  
CHARONE PEAKE: Yeah, it definitely is.  He puts the ball exactly where he needs to be every time.  He does a good job controlling the offense, and the good thing for our offense is we don't really have to do that as much because we're confident that we can take the little things sometimes or even run the ball because our offense is so balanced.   
 Q.  Do you go into the game thinking, okay, we're going to take so many 50/50 shots because you've got to do it?  Do you have to do it now in this day and age of football where you've got to try to?  
CHARONE PEAKE: We definitely don't do it as much here as we used to.  I think that's because our coordinators, they really do a good job of -- they don't just say, we're going to throw it up and see what happens.  They do a good job of preparing every week and having plays to get us open.   
 Q.  You replaced your entire offensive line, defensive line, playing a lot of freshmen, and yet you guys are No. 1.  How do you get there?  
CHARONE PEAKE: Like you said, we had to replace all of them, but I think our long game has been the strongest part of our offense, and Deshaun has gone multiple games without getting sacked.  We're so balanced, and we protect Deshaun, and us as receivers, so those linemen, they've been successful.   
 Q.  Were you confident that they could be as good as they are?  
CHARONE PEAKE: Definitely.  They've got some great leaders up front with Aaron Mac Lain and Ryan Norton, and I know they were definitely working all summer and I knew it was going to be a special season.   
 Q.  How prepared do you feel for this game?  
CHARONE PEAKE: Really prepared.  We've been doing a lot of meetings.  Oklahoma has a defense just like ours, so we're very prepared, and I think that's going to be really key for us.   
 Q.  How much pride do you take in the transformation from the 2011 Orange Bowl team to now?  
CHARONE PEAKE: Yeah, definitely a lot.  Because of that team, that 2011 team, it's definitely everything we've done up until now.  I think guys now on the team, they don't -- I think we used to be -- in the past we used to be overwhelmed with the big games.  I think now they're used to it, and when adversity hits, we're calmer.   
 Q.  Oklahoma's secondary struggled quite a bit last year.  This year they've completely kind of had a makeover.  It's the same guys but maybe a couple of different positions.  What's been your perspective?  
CHARONE PEAKE: Yeah, it's pretty much the same defense, same guys last year we went up against, but they've gotten a lot better, and you can see they're more confident, too.  They do a good job when the ball is in the air going and attacking just like the receivers, and I think for us as a team, we're going to have to be disciplined in protecting Deshaun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT