VERIZON HERITAGE
April 16, 2007
Stephen Leaney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Stephen Leaney, a marvelous, marvelous front side.  Take me through it. 
 STEPHEN LEANEY:  Well, I started on 2 and I managed to just chip in from the back for eagle, and just hit some really good shots. 
 I birdied 3, 4.  I chipped in just off the fringe on 5 and hit a great shot to 6.  It was just one of those starts. 
 To be honest, I really executed everything the way that I wanted to today.  The only really bad shot I hit, I just didn't body release it enough on 16 when I tried to hook it around the tree, and just hit the tree and it goes out of bounds.  But then I hit a great fourth shot and actually made a great 6. 
 I mean, 17, I hit a great shot to 17.  It's a yard from going over.  And then I played two great shots at the last. 
 But when a guy chips in the last two holes to win, that's sort of what happens.  But I executed today as good as I've done in any golf tournament. 

 Q.  Did you think it was maybe your week when that 65-foot bomb went in at the par 3, at 14? 
 STEPHEN LEANEY:  Oh, look, that was just one of those things that happens.  I mean, to me I wouldn't say that I had a go on 15, I just didn't get my lay-up.  I was five yards short of my number.  I actually hit a good shot there, but the breeze just got it and it just didn't get back on the green. 
 That's what happens around here.  It's such a hard golf course.  And the wind blowing the way it was on the last three holes, I was just happy to make par the last two holes. 
 It was hard today, but I mean, to have the lead and to go and play the way I did was good.  But as I said, I mean, Boo has played great, as well, and it's just his time. 

 Q.  Did you ever let the thought enter your mind that you could be the third straight Australian Verizon Heritage champion?  Did that ever cross your mind during the day? 
 STEPHEN LEANEY:  You know, I didn't even look at the leaderboard until I doubled 16 to actually see where I was because I knew that I was probably close to the lead, but I was just so into what I wanted to do.  I just wanted to hit the shot the way I hit it because the golf course was playing so hard, it wasn't like most weeks where you just keep going at the flag, you just try to hit it in the right position.  I didn't get ahead of myself, and I did what I could do today and it just wasn't enough. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT