U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 12, 2003
Stephen Leaney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 STEPHEN LEANEY:  The course is very fair today.  It played surprisingly easy in the sense there wasn't very much break and the greens were very soft for an Open, which made it a little bit easier to go after the flagsticks.  I drove the ball well today which sort of set up my round.  I hit a lot of greens and made two very good saves, one at 14 I think it was, and that kept the round going.  I think 17, which is probably hardest par 3 we play was a real bonus. 

Q.   I was talking to David Fay the other day and he likes you to feel when you guys finish 18 rounds of a U.S. Open you've been through a fist fight.  Do you feel like this course is that type of a course?  
STEPHEN LEANEY:  It has that potential because today there's not too many scores under par and there's no wind.  If the breeze gets up at all I think you'll find that.  I think you'll see guys pulling their hair out.  It's a calm morning and it's nice to get off to a good start. 

Q.  I heard some of your compatriots talking about this course reminds them of some of the courses in Australia and South Africa. 
STEPHEN LEANEY:  It was similar in the sense you can't hit a lot of drivers.  You have to think about what you're going to hit.  I've played a lot of long golf courses but here it's designed -- I hit iron off quite a few holes today and 3-wood.  There are some doglegs out here, but the rough is not what I'm -- I'm not really used to the rough over here but I was lucky to stay out of it. 

Q.  How important is it to you to come over to the States and -- contending in a major is important to everybody, but the fact you're doing it here in front of an American crowd that doesn't know your game too well. 
STEPHEN LEANEY:  It's nice to sneak around this way because nobody knows who I am and takes much notice, which takes the pressure off.  I can play my game.  The crowd was very fair today and they were nice to me.  I'm sure by the end of the day they might know a little bit more about me and hopefully I can still be there on Sunday. 

Q.  You said you snuck one in on 17? 
STEPHEN LEANEY:  I hit 2-iron to about four feet there, which I guess when you're standing on a hole that's that long you just try and hit it on the hole somewhere, and I got fortunate, I caught the slope and it ran down there nice and close.  The finish is very difficult.  There's not a lot of birdie holes but I managed to -- the last five holes I played three under.  




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT