VERIZON HERITAGE
April 12, 2007
Stephen Leaney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEPHEN LEANEY   
  
  Q.  Marvelous 20-footer at 18.  I like it when guys come off the 18th green with a smile on their face after making birdie.  Great finish.   
 STEPHEN LEANEY:  Par would have been a nice little way to finish, but the last two holes, it didn't really hit us about how hard it was actually blowing.  I knew the wind was there, but the last two holes played pretty hard.   
  
  Q.  Well, you know that.  You've been through here before.  A great 68 on Sunday helped you up the standings.  You like this place.   
 STEPHEN LEANEY:  I love it because it's a lot like home.  You have to really control your ball flight.  You know, you have to hit it the certain height that you need to hit it with the trees and where they are, and you have to hit it on certain sides of the fairway, and that's the way I grew up playing golf at home.  I mean, I really feel comfortable playing here.   
  
  Q.  Top 20s in each of your last two events, at the PODS and at Houston.  You're playing awfully well.  What's really working for you?   
 STEPHEN LEANEY:  Just been working really hard.  You know, I've been working hard mentally but I've been doing a lot of short game work and a lot of putting drills, and the drills are starting to pay off.  You know, I'm just making more of those putts like I made at 18, and that's what turns your 70s into 66s.   
  
  Q.  When you're playing in the afternoon on Friday it'll probably be a little breezier.  You know it usually gets windier in the afternoon, you just have to grit your teeth and get through it?   
 STEPHEN LEANEY:  Well, this is just like a regular day in Perth.  I mean, it blows like this every day at home.  Really to me it's not different to what I've played the last 20 years.  I'm not used to playing in calm weather.  I'd much rather play here.   
  
  Q.  Talk about your round today.   
 STEPHEN LEANEY:  Yeah, well, I mean, it's always good to try and get the wind direction right and try and get the speed right, but I managed to hit a lot of really good iron shots pin high today and just managed to capitalize on the chances that I had.   
  
  Q.  To get one back at 18, was that like stealing one?   
 STEPHEN LEANEY:  Well, it's such a hard hole, with the wind blowing off the left and you've got to start it out over the water, and you really have to commit to the shot.  I hit a beautiful 5-iron in there, and it was probably the slowest putt that I had all day, but I managed to hit it solid and it went in.   
  
  Q.  A lot of guys starting on 1 haven't been able to put up any numbers because of the wind picking up as they go along.  How happy are you with what you've done?   
 STEPHEN LEANEY:  Well, it was.  It's always difficult when you finish on the back nine because you know you're going to get 15, 16, 17 and the last hole playing tough.  If you play early on the back nine, it does make a difference, but that's just the way the drill goes.  I'm just very happy to be playing well and it's just nice to finish the day off.   
  
  Q.  How much did the wind factor in these last two holes?   
 STEPHEN LEANEY:  It played a lot -- once we got to 17, it was just -- really was surprised how hard it was blowing because it didn't seem like it was blowing that hard in the sheltered part of the course because you're just in the trees the whole time.  But once we got to 17, it was just a totally different golf course.  I hit a pretty good shot there and just managed to finish off.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT