WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 27, 2004
Stephen Leaney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
STEPHEN LEANEY:  Colin played well early, he was hitting fairways and greens.  I was sort of scrambling.  And then towards the end Colin seemed to struggle, so that was one of those games where either of us could have -- I just managed to follow the line.


Q.  How about that last shot?  It looked like it was a really tough shot, one foot in the bunker --

STEPHEN LEANEY:  Well, the third shot was the one that was tough.  It was right in between and I had a right to left lie but I just pulled it.  I said, well, what do you want to add, and I was trying to leave it under the hole, I didn't want to hit it past, and it came in nice.  It was a tough putt, sort of a four and a half, five.


Q.  How did you square the match?

STEPHEN LEANEY:  I birdied 11 to get it back all square and we were all square until the last hole.


Q.  Good match today.

STEPHEN LEANEY:  It was just one of those games where it was just going to come down to a mistake.  Colin was up-and-down I guess on 14, and I made a good putt on 16, and got up-and-down on 17, and I was just fortunate to get on the line.


Q.  Talk about this morning.

STEPHEN LEANEY:  Well, it was nice and I played well.  I think I might have made six birdies this morning.  It's just one of those games again where the course is just playing the way it is.  If you don't drive it in the fairway then you're going to struggle.  I played a little better this morning but conditions were quite easy this morning.  This afternoon it was very windy.


Q.  Were you surprised to see it end up in the bunker like that on 18?

STEPHEN LEANEY:  Well, you'll hit those shots occasionally.  I wouldn't say that the quality of play was really high, it was sort of solid.  We both had a finish with bad shots.  I guess I wasn't surprised, because he's a fine player and has been a great player for a long time.  I didn't watch him swing and I was waiting for the ball, and it was just one of those shots.


Q.  What did you have?

STEPHEN LEANEY:  I had 100 exactly.  It was right in between yardages.  I couldn't get the wedge there.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT