ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 10, 2018
Laura Delany
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Are you satisfied with your preparations so far?
LAURA DELANY: Yeah, definitely.  We've been out here for about 10 days now.  We played a warm-up game against Bangladesh.  That was our first warm-up game.  Then we went off to Antigua and we played against Sri Lanka where we had a very convincing win, our last warm-up game.
Going into our first game tomorrow against Australia, we know it's going to be a tough challenge, but I suppose we're hoping to take the confidence and the freedom that we played with in the Sri Lanka game into tomorrow.
Q. You lost against Bangladesh right here in that first warm-up.  What have you learned from that game on this track, Providence?
LAURA DELANY: I think the first game that you play in different conditions is always going to be quite tough.  We've played against Bangladesh on several occasions.  So we know them quite well.  Equally they know us very well.
But having watched the games yesterday, it seems like the track is going to stay quite low and slow.  So from a batting point of view, we just need to make sure that we stick to our plans and that we work with the person at the other end.  And bowling-wise, we set different targets as well.
Q. Australia played a very good game.  And they came out on top against Pakistan.  So what would be your game plan really for them?  They're going to be high in confidence as well.
LAURA DELANY: Yeah, and look, they're eyed to win this tournament.  I don't think there's any easy game in this tournament for us.  And we set small targets for each game.
Obviously Australia first off is going to be a tough target.  They have some outstanding players on their team.  But I'm very confident that if we stick to our plans and execute them that we'll be pretty happy.
Q. Let's talk about travels -- Guyana, Antigua, back again now.  Is it challenging?  Is it a routine you're accustomed to?  How is it?
LAURA DELANY: No, I think we got accustomed to it quite quickly.  It's part of this tournament as well.  We obviously had a very convincing win in Antigua.  So, we're pretty happy with that trip and now at the business end of the tour, and we can't wait to get stuck into us.
Q. In the camp, everybody fit and ready, no injuries?
LAURA DELANY: No, potentially a couple of niggles, but everyone is fit and ready to go.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT