ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 2, 2018
Laura Delany
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  After a couple of days now, how has the acclimatization period been?  
LAURA DELANY: Obviously the conditions are very different to what we experience at home. It's obviously quite hot here and quite heavy. We got in on Monday night and had a few days' training in the stadium, so yeah, and we've had a couple of tough sessions in the last couple of days.   
 Q.  What type of plans will you execute?  
LAURA DELANY: Yeah, we had different targets that we set for different teams that we're playing against. Obviously we have Bangladesh on Sunday and Sri Lanka on Tuesday or Wednesday next week, which is our second warm-up game, and then against Australia.  So the plans that we set for each team will be completely different depending on their lineup, whether they have spinners or seamers, and also depending on the type of batters that we'll be bowling to.   
 Q.  You've brought a relatively experienced squad. Does that send a statement that you guys are really looking to press farther than you did the last time?  
LAURA DELANY: Yeah, definitely.  I think the age, first of all, as far as the team is slightly older than the other teams.  We have a couple of players that are under the age of 18, and we've had a huge summer. We played against New Zealand at home at the start of the summer, and we've also played against Bangladesh.  We've put in some really good performances over the last 12 months.  Going into this World Cup, we definitely have targets for ourselves, but I'm pretty confident if we go out and play the way that we can that we'll be incredibly happy with the way that this tournament will go.   
 Q.  Tell us some of the key players that you guys have in this tournament that we should look out for?  
LAURA DELANY: Yeah.  Gaby Lewis, who is 17, and she bats No. 3 for our team.  She was a rookie for the Melbourne Renegades there last winter.  Kim Garth also played for the Sydney Sixers, one of our key bowlers.  Also plays a pretty important role in the batting lineup, along with Isobel Joyce, who is part of the Tasmanian Roar team in the Southern Hemisphere last winter, as well.  We also have a lot of players who have been in the side for a number of years, who have a lot of experience, who have played in big tournaments likes this before, and I'm sure that they'll dwell upon past experiences to lead us in this World Cup.   
 Q.  Your group -- judging from your group, it seems to be the more difficult of the two.  What is going to be the key to get on with this group?  
LAURA DELANY: Yeah, look, I think when you go to a World Cup, there's no easy group.  I think it's going to be a tough game first up against Australia, but we definitely have our targets set on Pakistan, the second game for us, and I think that's a realistic target.  We obviously have two warm-up games prior to that.   
We're looking forward to hitting the ground running against Bangladesh.  We've played them numerous times over the summer and over the last 18 months.  So for us, I think we just need to focus on executing our skills.  We have quite an attacking and powerful batting lineup, and I think once we're consistent with the bat and once we're consistent with the ball, we'll be pretty happy.   
 Q.  From the last ICC World T20, what exactly are you guys looking to do differently in this tournament?  
LAURA DELANY: I think we've learnt a lot since the last World T20. The game has also changed, but I think it's improved, and I suppose the way the game has evolved is something that we're trying to emulate, as well. Our batting lineup is quite powerful and quite attacking, and that's the role of this side that we've adopted over the last 18 months.   
So for us I think what we're trying to challenge -- we're trying to challenge ourselves.  We have targets set for each game, and I'm pretty confident that with all the hard work and preparations that we've had over the last 18 months, we'll be pretty successful with those targets.   
 Q.  As far as personal achievements, what are you looking to achieve in this group?  
LAURA DELANY: Well, this is actually my first World Cup that I'm going to be captaining, so for me that's a big thing, and along with -- not only me, but we're playing an important role in the team but with the bat and the ball.  I'm just coming back from an injury, so for me, I suppose I just want to make sure that I hit the ground running as soon as we get going.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT