MLB WORLD SERIES: ASTROS v WHITE SOX
October 21, 2005
Jose Contreras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What was your relationship with Roger Clemens in New York, and how do you feel about getting to face him tomorrow?

JOSE CONTRERAS:  Me and Roger Clemens had a very good relationship and he taught me a lot of things.  He taught me a couple of things, a couple of pitches.  We pitch mostly the same way, and just facing him tomorrow is an honor, just as good as he is.  I wish I had him on my team, but too bad we have to face him.

Q.  Jose, the second half of your season was so much better than the first, what changed your season around since the All-Star break?

JOSE CONTRERAS:  For me nothing has changed, I just kind of worked more on my mental and physical health.  That game in Cleveland that I won 1-nothing, it helped me a lot with my confidence and my pitches.

Q.  If you could maybe tell us a little about why you really seem to have turned your game around over here with the White Sox and how much of an influence was Ozzie, and I guess Don Cooper, as well?

JOSE CONTRERAS:  Ozzie and Cooper have helped me very much in the mental statement, with the Yankees, I have no pressure with the White Sox, and the confidence is very good.  Also with the players, they gave me a lot of confidence and I have to say thank you for that. 

Q.  What has it been to like to be El Duque's teammate and how has that helped you or helped you enjoy this year?

JOSE CONTRERAS:  Me and El Duque have a very good relationship.  He's a great pitcher.  He's taught me many things.  You've seen his numbers in Cuba and also here.  And he's taught me a lot of stuff about just going forward and fight for what you want and also helping the teammates in the clubhouse.  He's very good about that.

Q.  What pitches did Clemens work with you on, and what are the things you learned from him?

JOSE CONTRERAS:  I have to thank Roger very much because in Cuba I was throwing a two-seam fastball, and he taught me how to throw a four-seam fastball.  And Roger, every time I did something wrong with my mechanics, he helped me correct my errors.

Q.  Do you have any friends or family in Cuba affected by the Hurricane Wilma, are they trying to evacuate right now?

JOSE CONTRERAS:  My family is back in Cuba, my wife and my daughters.  My wife's brother and my best friends are here but the rest of my family is back in Cuba.  I'm worried about them.  I've always worried about them, every time there's a hurricane, and I've been trying to communicate with them, but I have to worry about pitching right now.

Q.  You've talked about how this whole process, and how you've transformed this year, but have you been able to step back, and said, geez, I've gone from a guy that was almost traded out of here, to now the No. 1 guy that's starting the first World Series game for them?

JOSE CONTRERAS:  After the All-Star break, the trade rumors were bothering me, but Ozzie and Cooper gave me the confidence, they took pressure away from me, and I tried to work as much as possible with my stuff and my mental state.  But I'm just trying to win the game for the team and do my best.

Q.  I'm interested in knowing what your reaction was to the trade from New York?  Were you hurt, were you surprised, were you depressed about it?  And also now that you're here, could you ever have imagined when you were in New York that you would be experiencing this moment?

JOSE CONTRERAS:  The reaction was that I was mad because I had a lot of friends in New York.  But I had to just step through that, go through it, and when I got here I wanted to thank the organization for just giving me the confidence, and especially Ozzie.  And I'm happy that I've put up these numbers, and I can pitch game No. 1 in the World Series. 

Q.  Now that you and El Duque are in the World Series, how popular are the Sox in Cuba.  And how many players in Cuba have the talent to play in the States?

JOSE CONTRERAS:  When I was with the Yankees, in Cuba, everybody was a Yankee fan, then when I got traded to the White Sox, everybody became a White Sox fan. Regarding the players back in Cuba, you have seen what we've done in the Olympics and what they're capable of.  I hope more players get a chance to play here.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT