NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 22, 2014
Jesse Delgado
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 125 POUNDS
  (Illinois) 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Jesse Delgado, national champion from University of Illinois.   
   
 Q.   Last year, I think‑‑ I don't think your mom was able to come.   I think she was working.   Was she here this year?  
JESSE DELGADO:   Yeah, she's here.   This is the first time she got to watch me wrestle.  
   
 Q.   Ever?  
JESSE DELGADO:   In college.   I redshirted my first year at Cal Poly.   She got to go to an Open there.   But this is the first she's been to a DivisionI match for me.  
   
 Q.   Was that fun for her?  
JESSE DELGADO:   I don't think she understands it too much, really.   I mean, she gets it.   She doesn't understand riding time and the little things.   But I think‑‑  
   
 Q.   She knows when you win?  
JESSE DELGADO:   I think she gets it when I get my hand raised.  
   
 Q.   She's having fun?  
JESSE DELGADO:   I think so.   I don't know.   I'm sure she's having fun when I'm wrestling, I don't know about the rest of the time.  
   
 Q.   What was harder, winning the first one or the second one?  
JESSE DELGADO:   They were both hard.   I think it's always harder repeating, but they both presented their challenges.   He threw me off in that match a little bit.   
He controlled the match again.   Megaludis controlled the match last year but I came out with the win.   So go back, wrestle a little bit, get better and separate the gap.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the Illinois wrestling family.   You came here with Mark Perry from Cal Poly.   What has he meant to you as far as your development, not only as a wrestler but as a person?  
JESSE DELGADO:   It's not even a coach anymore.   He's like family.   He's changed my life completely.   I said this last year.   It's more than a coach.   It's a mentor.   It's a brother, it's a friend, it's someone that I'll have for the rest of my life.   Family.  
   
 Q.   Talk about neutral position.   Obviously you score with a good shot tonight.   But you're the best in the arena at scrambling when guys get on your legs.   Talk about how you work at that and how you've been successful doing that.   
JESSE DELGADO:   Well, originally‑‑ Mark's a great scrambler, but he never really showed me too much when I first got to college.   
It was more working with Novachkov, just playing around.   And I think once I think Mark saw that I had a feel for it, they started working on it with me with stuff.   But basic defense is what he wants.   
I think they're on the edge of their seats sometimes when I'm getting twisted like that.   I think it makes it a little fun for people to watch, though.   If they're not from Penn State or Ohio or Cornell.  
   
 Q.   You guys were real active, but no points were getting scored in the early part.   Did you feel at some point it was going to open up, and how did you know that you were able to get to that takedown and get what you needed to get ahead?  
JESSE DELGADO:   He was pretty solid that whole match.   I didn't really get the angle I wanted to.   But he messed up one time, and I capitalized.   He was out of position for a split second, half a second, maybe.   I saw it, took advantage of it.   I knew if I got to his leg, I was going to finish.   And that's where I got and only had to do it one time.  
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT