NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 22, 2013
Jesse Delgado
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Jesse Delgado into the 26‑3.   Jesse, you had your offense right from the start.   Can you talk about the headway you made early in the match?  
JESSE DELGADO:   I knew if I didn't attack, he would.   So I figured I would keep him off my legs and stay on his.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Jesse Delgado?   
   
 Q.   Jesse, I'm trying to look at your career over the last year.   What happened this year?   Why were you able to turn it up?   
JESSE DELGADO:   I think it started clicking after the middle of the year or around January I focused in.   Mark and Jeremy said, as long as I focused on what I need to do, get rid of all other distractions, that I could win a national tournament.   
I bought it and got rid of those distractions, and focused on winning that national title.   And it's been a pretty good season for me since then.   
   
 Q.   Jesse, you had an interesting road from California out to Illinois.   Could you talk about how the program there has helped you improve and get you to the point where you're one match away from being a national champion?   
JESSE DELGADO:   Were you asking about California or Illinois?   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
JESSE DELGADO:   Me and Mark have been together since Cal Poly.   I wasn't a huge recruit and it's not a great wrestling school.   They have great guys, but I felt like we put a lot of work and time in together.   Now we're in the national finals, one more match, but have come a long way.   
   
 Q.   Jesse, could you take us back to the quarterfinals this afternoon where he got on you your back and you were able to will yourself to a victory?  
JESSE DELGADO:   Like I said earlier, I have grown a lot.   These last three months I think I have grown a lot.   Able to manage my emotions a lot better on and off the mat and it was keeping my composure.   
I had 30 seconds to get away and get a reversal and the only thing going through my head was, "I'm not waiting another year."  
THE MODERATOR:   Congratulations, Jesse.   Good luck to you tomorrow.     
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT