AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 13, 2003
Peter Luczak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Peter, that must be a bit of a thrill for you? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: Yeah, big thrill, yep. I don't know, sort of overwhelmed right now, but I'm sure it will sink in by tonight and I'll be pretty happy, yep.  
 
Q. Had you been playing well lately, practicing well? Were you expecting this? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: Yeah, I thought I was playing pretty well. In Sydney last week I had three good wins in the qualifying. I didn't play the best tennis there, but just with winning, gives you confidence. So, yeah, I was pretty happy with my preparation coming in to here.  
 
Q. Is Grand Slam tennis a lot different than you'd expected? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: I don't know. It's been my dream always to play the Aussie Open. So I don't know, this is like one of the best days of my life so far. And I don't know, just so good to get a win. It was -- I was very nervous at the start, especially when I heard them call my name over the loud speaker. It just sort of hit me all of a sudden. You know, it wasn't pretty tennis out there, but I managed to get the win so I'm even more happy now.  
 
Q. You now have to, I guess, put it behind you and look ahead. Do you know much about your next opponent? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: No, not really. He's actually on court right now, so after I get done here I'll probably go out and watch him a few games. Whoever I play is gonna be, obviously, a really good player. I'll be the underdog. So now I got nothing to lose and hopefully I'll be able to relax a little bit and just give my all.  
 
Q. How do you normally spend these two weeks? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: I'm normally back at college, in university. I went to college over there. So normally this time of year I was just playing first match of the season U.S. for my college team. But actually, last year, I went to Hawaii. I got a wildcard in the doubles and lost first round, then next morning flew out to Hawaii. This year I'll stay around and just enjoy it, enjoy the Aussie summer. I love being back here, watching cricket, watching the tennis on TV. I love it.  
 
Q. Is your whole family along? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: Yeah, got an older sister who actually got married last week. I've got a lot of relatives from Europe, from Poland, from Sweden. They all came down for the wedding, and they've stayed around. It was great. I'm sure -- I haven't seen them yet, but I'm sure all of them are pretty happy that I got a win today.  
 
Q. They were making a lot of noise out there. Were they all your relatives? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: Relatives and friends. I'm from Melbourne, so I've got a lot of mates from high school and just through tennis. So, yeah, it's good. Just change of ends, you're just sitting out there and watching all the faces I haven't seen in a couple years. They all come out of the woodwork, so it's good.  
 
Q. Did that contribute to the nerves? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: Maybe a little bit, but I'm sure they were more a help than hindrance, so much support it was unbelievable.  
 
Q. Where did you go to school? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: Fresno State. It's in California, yep.  
 
Q. What about in Melbourne? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: In Melbourne went to Mazenod College, it's in Mulgrave.  
 
Q. What's been the impact of all the Davis Cup experience you've had? What's been the benefit for you of all the Davis Cup experience? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: It's benefited hugely. Like every time I played , was hitting partner in Davis Cup, the next couple weeks I played some of the best tennis of my life. So just like Wally and Fitzy, like their advice is unbelievable. Also just hanging around with guys like Hewitt and Scott Draper, Todd Woodbridge and Wayne, you know, the experience is invaluable. So it was, you know, it's unbelievable. Even though I'm hitting partner, I really enjoy my time there, the two weeks, I love it.  
 
Q. The camp also, who did you hang out with in Melbourne Park last month? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: The camp was a brilliant idea. I thought it would be good, I thought it would help the Aussie tennis because it was the first year we've done it. I think it's helped hugely, like myself, Jaymon and Ryan Henry, we all did the camp. Like last week in Sydney, we were all ranked, you know, outside of the Top 200, I'm just under. But we all beat guys in the Top 100. Just ten days straight of training every day, four hours a day, fitness, workouts. It was -- I think helped us hugely. Like other guys had taken time off normally, from Europe and South America , Europe and the U.S., it's so cold over there. We were just training every day in the heat and it helped.  
 
Q. You're a bit of a fitness fanatic anyway, aren't you? Do conditions like this help you? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: I think so, yeah. I try to work on my fitness pretty hard. Might not be the most talented guy out there, but I try to work hard. It's something you can do on your own, so you might as well do the best you can.  
 
Q. What's your goal for two months; time? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: I'd like to be Top 100. I sort of set that goal maybe a month ago. Sort of like by the end of -- this time next year, hopefully I won't need a wildcard. I'm so grateful for a wildcard, gave me the chance to play here. Hopefully I can earn my way in here next year.  
 
Q. Is it hard to keep the excitement at a reasonable level after what's happened today? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: I can't stop smiling. I don't know. Yeah, I don't know...  
 
Q. Where are you staying? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: I'm staying at my parents out in Mulgrave, yep.  
 
Q. Will you talk to anybody tonight or in between now and the next match that can help you out for your preparation? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: Yeah, for sure, yep. I'll be talking to, you know, my coach. He's out there watching right now. I'm sure Wally and Fitzy and some of the Aussie guys who's seen this guy around, guys like Scott Draper, I'm pretty good mates with him. I'll ask Wayne for a few tips and hopefully that'll help.  
 
Q. Who is your coach? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: His name's Tum Rakete. Just I've been working with him since I was 12. Then I stopped when I went to the U.S. Now, whenever I come back, I just ask him for a bit of help.  
 
Q. Have you finished your studies yet? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: No, I had six months to go, but you can only play tennis a certain amount of time, and that time ran up. So I decided to play tennis instead of finish my studies. I don't know if that's a good move or not yet, but I'd like to go back and finish once I've finished playing tennis, yep. I've got six months to go, so I might as well do it.  
 
Q. What are you studying? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: I was doing business finance.  
 
Q. What do you miss most about Melbourne? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: The girls (laughing). No, I don't know. The footy, for sure, yeah. I love the footy. Just all the Aussie sport, you know, I love just sitting around, just relaxing, few mates and just watching the cricket or footy or whatever's on. It's just so much more relaxed over here. The people seem much more friendly. Yeah, it's great.  
 
Q. Are your parents both Polish? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: They are, yep.  
 
Q. You came here at what age? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: I was two years old, yep. Left Poland when I was nine months, but then I lived in Sweden for a year and came here.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT