adidas International
January 6, 2003
Peter Luczak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Why such a slow start? Nerves, was it? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: Yeah, a bit of nerves, I'd say. I think I was also trying to play a little bit too aggressively in the wind. Out there on Court 1, it was a hurricane blowing out there. So I don't know, was just tough. He wasn't missing, and I was just doing all the missing. But nerves as well, yeah.  
 
Q. Must have been disappointing, goes without saying, to get to a position to win a match like that? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: Yeah, it is disappointing. I hadn't had too much time to think about it. I was just out there watching Crabby, trying to pull him through. I'm sure I'll think about it tonight, will be hard to get to sleep because I had a good chance. It was so windy, it was a great equalizer, like anyone could have won out there. But I don't know, just maybe got tight in the end, and that was it.  
 
Q. What do you think actually went wrong for you there at the end? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: He stayed pretty solid, and I just made a few mistakes here and there. I had a chance at 15-all when I was serving for it. Had an open court with a forehand volley. Hit the tape, and I think that was the turning point really.  
 
Q. Can you take some heart from it, though, showing you can compete with these guys, Top 50 ranked guys? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: Yeah, I think so. You know, got a bit of confidence from going through the qualifying. Hopefully -- all I wanted was to come up here and get some match play before Australian Open. Lucky enough to get a wildcard, so I got my match play. Hopefully, I can maybe win a couple rounds next week.  
 
Q. What's the big goal for 2003? Last year you wanted to break into the Top 200. You've achieved that. You gonna raise it a bit now? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: Yeah, I'm probably hoping to go Top 100, maybe play a few more qualifying of ATPs and hopefully qualify for a few of these, get to play some of the big guys. You know, I love it. I love traveling. I love competing and playing. So hopefully I have a chance to play a few more of these really top guys.  
 
Q. What's it like for guys such as yourself and Jaymon? We see in Australian tennis your Hewitts and Philippoussises. What's it like for you, week in, week out, sort of being that tier below? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: I love it. Yeah, I love it. Yeah, no one really knows us. We just have a good time. We just battle. You know, I don't know, I really enjoy it. We just, you know, try to stay at cheap hotels and, you know, always find the cheap rent-a-car. No one hassles us. I was lucky enough to be a hitting partner in Davis Cup. Saw Lleyton every single day. There was not a day where he wasn't like, you know, thousands of people just bothering him with signing autographs and stuff. Me and Jaymon just roamed the streets. No one knows us. No, I really like it. I like being the underdog and playing like that, you know. I think I play a little worse when I'm expected to win, so, yeah...  
 
Q. Hopefully, though, you want to get to the stage, though, where ... 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: Oh, yeah, obviously. Yeah, I'm sure when it comes, I'll be able to deal with it. Right now I like being the underdog and being right here and hopefully a few big scalps, yeah.  
 
Q. What's your program now, leading up to the Australian Open? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: Just the Australian Open, that's it. Just practice, and probably take tomorrow off. Practice, go back to Melbourne because I'm from Melbourne, just practice every day until the Aussie Open, yeah.  
 
Q. Who are you working with now? 
 
 PETER LUCZAK: My coach, he's Tum Rakete, he's from Melbourne as well. I've been with him since I was 12, 13. Then I went away to college, and I was with a different guy, another Aussie called Mark (inaudible) for four years. But when I'm traveling, I don't really have a coach. I just, when I come back to Melbourne, do some work with Tom.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT