AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2001
Peter Luczak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 


Q.  What did you learn from that match?  Did you take anything out of it? 

PETER LUCZAK:  Feels like I just came off the court so I haven't really thought about it too much.  Well you know, the guy's an incredible player.  I think he's made quarters or semis here before.  You know, the thing I can take out of it is maybe if I can hang with him for most of the match, I should be able to, you know, maybe compete with these guys on a more regular basis. 

Q.  Is that what you've got to do, play at that level more regularly?

PETER LUCZAK:  Yeah.  I'm just going to have to sustain it, you know, try to cut out the bad weeks or losses where, you know, I'm losing to guys outside of the top 300.  You know, I've got to try to, you know, make sure every time a guy's ranked behind me, try to knock him off and try to keep moving forward. 

Q.  Is there any danger that in your subconscious you sort of win a set against a guy like Haas and feel like that might be good enough? 

PETER LUCZAK:  I guess, yeah, in the subconscious there's a chance of that.  But, you know, I've done that a number of times.  I did it three or four times last year alone against Tommy Robredo and Tommy Haas last year.  This time I was actually thinking, Come on, mate, you can do it this time.  In the conscious, it definitely wasn't a part of it. 

Q.  What about your game did you feel didn't quite measure up today? 

PETER LUCZAK:  I probably could have returned a little bit better, and also my backhand was probably a little bit too erratic.  If that was a bit more consistent.  I probably missed a few too many in the tape. 

Q.  I don't think anyone who watched today would think that you're the 139th best player in the world.  Does that give you something to be happy about?

PETER LUCZAK:  Yeah, I guess.  But a loss is a loss.  You're always a little bit disappointed after you lose.  Especially, for me, such a big opportunity.  It's not often I get to play for 75 points.  Normally I have to be in the semis or a final to play for that amount of points. 

Q.  What was the experience like, Rod Laver, the packed house, the roof, all that?

PETER LUCZAK:  Yeah, it was incredible.  You know, when I was down in that fourth set, the crowd just every time I came out from change of ends, would try to get me back into it.  It was just electric.  I couldn't hear myself think.  I was thinking, Man, you just got to enjoy this.  The crowd is with you.  Just try to get a few balls back, you never know what happened.  He just played a bit too good for me at the end. 

Q.  What is it that Tommy Haas does really well?

PETER LUCZAK:  He's got incredible groundstrokes.  He can go either way off both sides, forehand and backhand.  Especially the backhand up the line is normally a tough shot for most players, but he hits it incredibly well.  Anything in his striking zone, you know, you got problems.  You got to either try to get the ball up high or down low on him.  Anything here, it's normally curtains. 

Q.  He did have to play at a very high level for three sets to see you off.  You can take a lot out of that. 

PETER LUCZAK:  Yeah, well, you know, I'll probably have to watch the tape.  Maybe not tomorrow, day after maybe, a week or two.  It's hard to tell.  Sometimes from the outside point of view, you can see if it was a good standard of match or not.  When you come off the court, you don't really know.  Or sometimes you play well, obviously you know.  Buy I just -- I don't know.  Everything happened so fast.  I'm not really too sure what happened out there. 

Q.  Do you have a rest now before hopefully Davis Cup?

PETER LUCZAK:  Yeah, I'll take a couple days off, probably try to play a bit of golf, spend some time with my girlfriend, start hitting some balls on the clay.  If that's an option, if Fitzy wants me there, you know, I'll get into it straightaway, maybe in two or three days. 

Q.  Will the Davis Cup be another step in your progression?  Do you look forward to the heat of the battle in representing the country?

PETER LUCZAK:  Yeah, I love playing in crowds like that.  When I played on Margaret Court against Rochus, it seemed like a Davis Cup crowd.  There was a whole section of the herd.  They were all going crazy.  I really love that sort of atmosphere.  It's very easy to play when you've got so many people cheering from you.  I'm sure you get that same sort of feeling, even if they're against you, just so many people wanting to watch and just willing one person on.  Just incredible atmosphere to play in. 

Q.  You love the big stage then?

PETER LUCZAK:  Yeah, I don't mind it. 

Q.  Is it a bit like when you've got an upgrade on the plane, you go to business, then have to go back to economy?  Is that what you face now with challengers and qualifying after what you've had?

PETER LUCZAK:  Yeah, I'm sure it's going to be a little bit difficult.  But you've just got to mentally prepare for that.  Just say, mate, if you want to get ready for the bigger stage, obviously a guy of my ranking, I've got to play some of the small tournaments first.  If I want to get there, just gives me a bit of a taste of, you know, where I'd like to be at.  You know, I'm going to have to be mentally strong and compete like an animal out there to get past the challenger level. 

Q.  What is your ranking likely to be?

PETER LUCZAK:  I haven't really looked at it too closely.  If I'd have a guess, it would probably be around 110, 115. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT