AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2010
Peter Luczak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/P. Luczak
  7-6, 6-1, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Must have been quite a buzz for you out there tonight?  
 PETER LUCZAK: Yeah. It was great. I'll definitely remember that for the rest of my life. That's what we play for: to play on a center court, especially in my hometown.   
 You know, I gave it my all, but he was too good.   
  
  Q. What was going through your head at 5-3?   
 PETER LUCZAK: I actually don't know. It was like all a blur. I know I did two doubles first point of the game, and then at 15-All. I just, I don't know, don't feel that comfortable serving a second serve wide. I was trying to get to his backhand.   
 I know I was nervous, but I didn't really feel like tight doubles. I normally feel tight when I hit 'em in the net, but I just hit 'em both long. You sort of only get once chance against a guy like that.   
 Yeah, unfortunately missed a forehand at 40-30; hit a pretty first serve and I had a chance to come in and just missed it wide, and that was it.  
  
  Q. Despite the loss, a productive month for you.   
 PETER LUCZAK: I'm happy with the way I'm playing. Played well in Brisbane, but lost to Andy, and then played a couple of good matches in Sydney. And, yeah, just another tough one here.   
 But, yeah, got to try to take the positives. I feel like I'm playing pretty well, so hopefully I can do well in the next few months.  
  
  Q. When you got to that tiebreak in the first, were you kind of thinking, What if?   
 PETER LUCZAK: Yeah, I just wanted to stay aggressive. The first point I just missed a forehand wide. Missed another forehand, then that's it. I just played aggressive that first set, and I just had to keep going in the tiebreak.   
 I just missed a couple of forehands. You know, he played so solid, so 7-Love, not too good.   
  
  Q. What about actually playing out there, though? A double-edged sword? You get to play center court, but against one of the best in the world.   
 PETER LUCZAK: Yeah, you'd like to play him in a second round or third round or fourth round. You know, that's the way the draw goes. I can't keep getting sort of rough draws. I'm sure it will swing the other way. I'm sure I'll get some good draws in the future.   
 But, you know, I don't mind that too much. I mean, I'm getting a little bit older now, so I like to have that experience. Need to play one of the best guys in the world on center court in Melbourne.   
 I had all my close friends and family. They don't get to watch me play too often live, so it was nice to have them there and watch me.  
  
  Q. You had a bit of Aussie support. Gooch was in there.   
 PETER LUCZAK: Yeah, I'm good mates with Gooch. He came along. Scotty Draper was in there, Stephen Huss. A few Aussie tennis players were in there. Then obviously my family and a couple friends from school and stuff.   
  
  Q. You going to head to South America now.   
 PETER LUCZAK: Yeah. The first one is straight after the Aussie. I've entered all four in South America. The first three I'm inside the cut, and the fourth one, Acapulco, a few guys, I'm third out. I need a few guys to pull out there for me to get in.   
 I'll definitely be playing those four in South America, and then hopefully back here to Melbourne for the Davis Cup if I get selected.  
  
  Q. Do you feel as though you've nailed down that second singles spot?   
 PETER LUCZAK: I don't know. Still a long way to go before Davis Cup. Still five weeks, I guess. No, six, seven weeks. Still a lot of time between now and then.   
 Luckily for me I'm not the one who has to choose the team that. Will be up to Fitzy and Teddy.  
  
  Q. Do you think you're playing the best tennis of your career at 30?  
 PETER LUCZAK: Surprisingly, yes. I don't know what it is. I don't feel 30. I probably look 30, but I don't feel it. Yeah, it feels like I'm getting better and better for whatever reason.   
 Like all the coaching I've had from Todd Woodbridge the last six, seven weeks, he's been great. He's added a few little things to my game, especially on the hard court. So, yeah, it feels like I'm definitely playing a better brand of tennis on the hard courts.  
  
  Q. You have to sort of revise your season goals after the past month?   
 PETER LUCZAK: Yeah, probably, 'cause my goal was to just play in the main draw of Wimby, the only one I haven't played the main draw of. I think after last week in Sydney, I don't think I can drop outside the top 100. I'm not defending too many points in the first four or five months, so I think that's already safe. So I'll get to play that.   
 I don't know. I think I got probably a little bit more belief after I had a pretty good match against Andy and now a pretty good match against Rafa.   
 You know, I think hopefully, if I continue with this form, I can get inside the top 50. I'd really like to do that.   
  
  Q. Did you speak to Lleyton before the match?   
 PETER LUCZAK: Yeah, we were shooting a few texts across to each other last night actually. We both were just getting a bit pumped up. We're both so passionate about the Aussie Open.   
 You know, once we got going, we were going on for probably about half an hour just back and forth. He gave me some good advice. You know, it was pretty nice last night when we were doing that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT