AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2008
Peter Luczak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  What's your feeling after that?   
 PETER LUCZAK:  You know, it's always hard to say as soon as you come off the court.  But I feel like I played pretty good.  I had a few chances.  I think 4-All in the third set, had a break point, and he came up with a pretty good serve.  He seemed like he served pretty good under pressure.   
 He got better and better as the match went on but, you know, it's always disappointing when you lose.  Doesn't matter who you lose to;  when you lose, it's always a bit disappointing.   
  
  Q.  What was your feeling after the first set?   
 PETER LUCZAK:  Yeah, I felt like, you know, this is great.  I got off to a good start.  I was hitting the ball well, seeing the ball well, especially his serve.  And it was probably little bit tricky in the beginning because we had the shadow creeping over.  He was getting a little bit frustrated because the Hawk-Eye wasn't in play for some reason.  The Hawk-Eye doesn't work when the shadow is halfway across the court.   
 Really felt like I could have won that one, but I didn't.   
  
  Q.  Is it one that got away?  I mean, is that the overriding feeling?   
 PETER LUCZAK:  Well, not really.  It wasn't like I was two sets to love up and I choked or anything like that.  He just came up with some pretty good tennis.  So I gave it everything I had.  And, you know, at least tomorrow morning when I wake up, I can look myself in the mirror and say I did everything I could.  So that's all you can do on any give day, I guess.   
  
  Q.  Was it back or leg?   
 PETER LUCZAK:  I felt like I had a little bit of a twinge in my glute.  So I got off the court and asked for the trainer.  He put some heat on it, and it felt a lot better.  There was no problems after that.   
  
  Q.  Where do you think you are from just making it?  He's a top 10 player.  How far away from him are you?   
 PETER LUCZAK:  I've had I guess a few matches like that where I just get close to some of these guys and I just can't get over the top.  If I can get over the top of a couple of these guys I can really start believing and hopefully I'll kick on.  But it's been great to be part of the AIS.  They helped me a lot I guess with my fitness and my mobility around the court.  Just, also, I guess believing that, you know, I belong with these guys.  So hopefully in the next three, four months I can, you know, maybe get inside the top 50.   
  
  Q.  You can obviously go out there thinking you can win and you win a first set against a top-10 bloke.  How do you measure that?   
 PETER LUCZAK:  Yeah, it's really hard to really believe inside until you beat some of these guys, I think.  A couple years back, I had a pretty good win over Gonzalez, who I think was maybe 15 in the world at the time on clay in South America.  That helps.  But it's been a while since -- with my ranking, it's tough to really beat -- you don't really play these sort of guys too often.   
 I might play guys in the top 10 once or twice a year in the Grand Slams.  So I think maybe now with my ranking creeping up there, I'll be able to play more tour events, so hopefully I'll get more opportunities to play more tour events so hopefully I get more opportunities to play those sort of guys and just see where my game is at.   
  
  Q.  What sort of burning in the guts does a match like that give you?   
 PETER LUCZAK:  You've got to take the positives out of it, I guess.  You've got to just say, Look, I can compete with these guys.  Hopefully a matter of time before I start knocking a few of these blokes off.   
  
  Q.  You and Robert need to get together to work out how to knock him off?   
 PETER LUCZAK:  Yeah, that's right.  Smeetsy almost got him in the third set.  And I guess I was I don't know if 'pretty close' is the right word, but I definitely had a chance.   
  
  Q.  Do you think there's something perhaps technically you could do to help get above these guys or do you think it's purely a matter of gaining exposure against the big guys and getting better playing in big-match situations?   
 PETER LUCZAK:  I think it's a bit of both.  There's always parts of your game you can work on.  I'm still not completely happy with maybe, you know, the way I come into the net, my volleys, my serve can always get better.  Probably forehand out wide.  But also, you know, just the experience of playing these guys week in, week out, you know.  I'm lucky enough to be playing four or five tour events coming up in a row, so it will be a good opportunity.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT