NBA FINALS: MAVERICKS v HEAT
June 9, 2011
Rick Carlisle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Coach, Brendan's status for tonight?   
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: Inactive.   
  
  Q. In his place will be? Who will be active?   
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: Beaubois. I mean, Butler, I'm sorry.   
  
  Q. Oh?   
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: I'm just kidding. (Laughter).   
  
  Q. Can you talk a little about Corey Brewer. Has he been looking? Is there a possibility he might get a little bit of time or is it a surprise?   
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: He might. Yeah, he might. I don't know. I don't know. He's been looking good. He's been looking good. I appreciate everybody asking about him, because, you know, he's obviously well thought of.   
  
  Q. He's a Florida boy. Played in Gainesville, hometown.   
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: Right. His coach was here two nights ago and he didn't play. I had to deal with that, too. (Laughter).  
 But, listen, he's ready. I know he's ready. If needed, he'll be out there guns blazing.   
  
  Q. Rick, last 24 hours or so has been just LeBron James bash-a-thon on TV, radio, wherever you look. Knowing him a little bit and watching and observing him, how do you expect that that might affect him in the way he comes out? And what have you told your team as far as preparing for a possible onslaught from him?   
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: Look, he's a great player. He's going to come out and he's going to impact the game. The amazing thing to me, Dwyane Wade scored 32 points, and I haven't gotten one question how I'm going to deal with him. That's what I'm shocked about.   
 Look, they have two guys that are great. We've got to deal with them both -- they have three, actually. They have three All Stars. We have to deal with all of those guys from a team standpoint. We don't have one guy that can stop any of them. And, hey, that's how we win games. That's how we function.   
  
  Q. Coach, can you talk about any adjustment or lineup changes tonight in preparation for this Miami team?   
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: I'll send my lineups down at the same time.   
  
  Q. Coach, we've been with you since October at the beginning when this all started and everything.   
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: It's been fun, hasn't it?   
  
  Q. Yes. Can you talk about this what this means, the fans and everything as this game here comes down to close to the season for Dallas at home?   
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: Well, this is our last game at home. To get to this point is an accomplishment of sorts, but it's not the accomplishment that we've aimed for. But it is special, and we obviously want to have the right result. And to do that, we've got to make sure we have the right approach and are playing the game with the kind of aggressiveness and force and discipline that we need to. Those are the three biggest things.   
 At this point you obviously have two teams that are very skilled. But we have to play hard and we have to play smart.   
  
  Q. Okay, so Dwyane Wade, do you need to get a nuzzle on him or can you live with just one or one and a half of those three guys killing you if you can keep one or the others under control?   
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: We don't want -- he killing us is not good. That's not good. The thing with Wade is that his elusiveness is one of those -- it's a phenomenon, really. He's one of those special guys. And so our team has really got to gear into the situations that they put him in. You got to keep turnovers down, because when they deflect it or get ahold of it in transition, now you're really playing from behind. You know, he's difficult from a tendency standpoint because he counters well. Five guys got to be in a stance at all times when he has the ball. It's as simple as that. It's the same thing with James and it's the same thing with Bosh.   
  
  Q. Coach, what do you guys need to do in order to get what you got from Tyson Chandler the other night, the 13 points and the 16 rebounds?   
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: He's an active player. He did a really good job of making himself available on rolls to the basket, on dives into the paint. He ran the floor, he got offensive rebounds. And we need him to do all those things. In the absence of Haywood, my job becomes important tonight. I've got to keep him fresh. And exactly how we do that is going to depend on the ebb and flow of the game, whether it's a few short rests and whether we can get him an extended rest at some point.   
 He's of major importance to us. I think that's obvious. And we need him on the floor. But we also got to make sure that he doesn't get in a situation where he gets gassed and that leads to fouls and those kinds of things.   
  
  Q. Coach, does the same way you don't want to give them loose balls defensively, does that change how you want to attack the offensive glass and/or tipping balls out, because that can lead to their transition. Does that change any way you want to approach rebounding on offense?   
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: I don't know if I understand what you are asking.   
  
  Q. Sometimes bigs will tip balls out and offensively some of those have led to transition points.   
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: If we can grab them, we definitely want to grab them. A lot of times guys tip balls out. I had Ben Wallace for two years. He may have been the best there has ever been in the game at tipping balls out and regenerating possessions. Tyson is very good at it. Their bigs are effective at doing it.   
 We want to grab as many as we can. And when we can't, we want to tip them to ourselves as often as possible. But the loose-ball tally is very key in this series, because the points off loose balls is not an official stat, but it's a very meaningful tally. I think I mentioned in Game 3, there was 20 loose balls, they got 11, we got 9. We got 10 points, they got 14. So it was a three-point difference. And it's a two-point game.   
 So we have to get as many as we can.   
  
  Q. Coach, has Dirk made significant progress getting over his illness over the last couple of days?   
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: I believe so. Yeah, he's doing better. Yeah.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Coach.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT