NBA FINALS: MAVERICKS v HEAT
June 5, 2011
Rick Carlisle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Just talk a little bit, Rick, about the first few minutes of this game. Everybody is leading up to it saying how big Game 3 is and they're all big and all that. Is there a process at the start of the game like this that you think players have to work through a few things early on?   
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: Well, I believe that both teams will be very aggressive. From everything that we're hearing, Miami is going to be in a very strong attack mode, looking to get to the free-throw line more. And so, look, we're going to have to be down in the stance containing them and attacking at both ends ourselves. They're not a team you beat by playing any kind of a passive game.   
 We'll have to be ready, and I'm sure they will be too.   
  
  Q. Rick, do you know the status of Brendan Haywood? Will you have him tonight?   
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: Haywood is out tonight. He will not play.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about what adjustments that will mean for you guys?   
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: It will change our rotation, obviously. He's one of our biggest guys, we all know that. And so we have some different scenarios. Mahinmi will most likely play some minutes. And then there's a possibility we could look at some other lineups that would be obviously smaller. But we're going to have to adjust.  
  
  Q. Who is on the active list?   
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: Beaubois will be activated.   
  
  Q. The importance now of Tyson staying out of foul trouble with no Brendan?   
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: It's very important. We've got to play the game on the ground as much as possible. When they get us in the air, that's when we foul. Their game is in the air, our game is on the floor. We're better when we stay on the floor. And again, you can't preach too much to a guy like Tyson be careful, be careful, because a lot of his game is his enthusiasm, his aggression, his energy, those kinds of things.   
 So at this point, whatever we are, 16, 17 games into the whole playoffs, I got to believe he's got a pretty good feel for things, and he'll have to, you know, he'll have to gauge all those things. But we obviously need him, and we're going to need a lot of other guys ready to step up as well.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Coach.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT