NBA FINALS: MAVERICKS v HEAT
June 2, 2011
Rick Carlisle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Coach, how did your practice go today? And as far as the rebounding issue, do you think you've implemented the things that will bring forth the goal that you've set out for in tonight's game? 
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: It went well. The rebounding is something that we're going to have to do better. A lot of it comes down to, you know, it's a scrum in there. And there's a lot of guys that are really anxious to get the ball. We're going to have to win those battles. We're going to have to win the individual battles and we're going to have to do it collectively. We're going to have to keep five guys in there and make sure we have the ball before we leak out. 
 Anything less than that, we're going to leave too much to chance. 

 Q. Can you talk about the defensive assignment on LeBron tonight. 
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: Our whole team is going to have to guard him. You know, we'll have individual guys matched up, but our team defense is geared around him and Wade, and to some degree Bosh, too. 

 Q. Coach, did LeBron James defending Terry take you guys by surprise? And what adjustments did you think about as you go into this game off of that? 
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: Well, it's not a surprise. We figured he would be guarding everybody at some point. But, you know, we've looked at it. We've got a few things that we'll be ready to do. But we're going to see good defenders on the floor just about every position for them all the time. So we're going to have to be ready to play basketball. And again, our best opportunity to get great shots is if we can defend and get rebounds and get in transition and get into the flow. If we have to walk it up every time during crunch time, it's always going to be hard against a set defense as good as Miami's. 

 Q. Coach, at the same time, J.J. Barea is probably your best penetrator in the half court. How valuable is that going to be in Game 2? And how much does he have to finish once he gets in there? And does that open up things for your perimeter scorers? 
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: Look, everybody is important on our team. You've been covering us all year, you know that. Heap it all on one guy, this guy or that guy, we've had to do things collectively all season long, defensively, offensively. We never know exactly who is going to score the points, but every element that we have, whether it's J.J.'s penetration, Haywood's presence around the basket, Tyson's energy, you go right down the list, we need everybody to do what they do. 

 Q. Are you pretty happy with the looks he got in Game 1, though? 
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: We got a lot of good looks. I don't think at this point of the season you can bellyache about missed shots and say that's the reason you lost. I think we lost because we gave up too many second-chance opportunities. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Coach. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT