NBA FINALS: MAVERICKS v HEAT
June 1, 2011
Rick Carlisle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Rick, when you have a team like that, where even when you're up, you know they have the comeback capabilities, is there a sort of sense that when it gets to seven, like it did there in the third, you have to keep pushing and pushing because you almost know there will be that inevitable pushback with Dwyane and LeBron? 
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: We have to keep playing the whole game regardless of the score. I think for us to be successful, we have got to be extremely persistent at both ends and we can't play the score. We've got to play our game and play it aggressively, regardless of the score. 

 Q. Rick, you and the players were saying you needed to see the film. Now that you've seen it, what stood out to you after watching the game again?
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: They won the line of scrimmage is really what it came down to. They were more physical inside. It led to 16 second-chance opportunities for them. And that just takes the ball out of our hands and it gives them another chance to keep playing. 
 We've got to do a better job of scrambling and getting bodies on bodies, and we have to come up with the ball. 

 Q. Rick, in what ways could it help Miami to know well in advance of the game that Dirk has the torn tendon in his left hand, as far as defending him? And how much of a problem would it be for a guy who uses his left hand as much as Dirk does? 
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: Well, he's going to play. I'm not sure of the exact severity of the injury, but I know he's going to tape it up, put a splint on it, or whatever it is, and he's going to play. And we're not going to make a big issue out of it. 
 At this point you have to kind of deal with the hand that's dealt to you. I think he'll be okay. But right now we have to keep playing. 

 Q. Rick, you've been preaching rebounding throughout the entire postseason. How much was the rebounding disparity last night tied into when you guys played the zone? 
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: At times. By and large, though, we just -- we didn't present enough resistance inside. Juwan Howard came in there and got three offensive rebounds in seven minutes. He's a guy that's capable of doing that. And that gives them a big advantage when they have a guy off the bench that can come in there and generate possessions like that. We can't allow it to happen. 

 Q. What did you see in the way they were defending Dirk in terms of the number of guys and the way they were attacking him defensively? 
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: They're aggressive, as every team has been in the playoffs. I don't think we're going to see any coverages we haven't seen before with him, because we've seen everything in the last three years since I've been here. 
 But, look, they're aggressive, they're decisive with their defense. They do a good job of rotating and covering up. So we've got to make quick reads, the ball has to move, and we have to make plays. 

 Q. You guys have got 100 games or so under your belt. After losing Game 1 of a seven-game series, how tempting is to make a lot of adjustments? How many adjustments will you make? 
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: We'll make some adjustments, for sure. 

 Q. Like? 
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: Like you want to know specifically? 

 Q. Please. 
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: We'll be ready for Game 2. 

 Q. One more question. 
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: You're done. You're done. 

 Q. Corey Brewer, might we see more of him as in any of him? 
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: Possibly. I mean, that's an honest answer. 

 Q. It's going back a few decades. If you can please reflect on your days in New Jersey and how it might have shaped your coaching philosophy and how Fitch fired and hired you on the same day, I would love to hear it. 
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: If you are asking how I got into coaching, yeah, I got a phone call saying I was waived, and then I was offered a job in the same phone call coaching. That was a great opportunity. And Bill Fitch is one of the great all-time coaches. That was very fortunate for me. 
 Look, I got into this in a little different fashion, but I started out in the video room and on the road scouting, the same way Erik started. So took the long road. But I've been very fortunate to work under some great guys and to have come into some good situations as a head coach. 

 Q. Rick, how were you guys last night in the hit-first department? 
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: Poor. When I talk about them winning the line of scrimmage, that's really what it's about. The analogy of football is accurate in that the line of scrimmage, the guys that hit first and hit most aggressively with the most force are going to have the most success. And they did it better than we did last night. That's an adjustment that we're going to have to make. 

 Q. Is that a root of many problems? 
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: It can be done. 

 Q. What have you learned from your previous trips deep into the playoffs, Conference Finals, some tough losses? How has that shaped the way you coach now? 
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: Just an overall view of when you get to this point, how challenging it is. How you're presented with challenges of opposing great players, difficult situations, difficult venues, all that. But the thing that you learn more than anything is that those challenges are something you have to love, and you have to embrace them. As difficult as things are, you become more resourceful and find ways to be successful. 
 Right now we've got to look at a few areas, and we have to be more resourceful and more opportunistic, because those have been two traits that have identified who we've been to getting to this point. 

 Q. What did you think about just Dirk's overall offensive play last night? And also when he suffered the injury, did you notice it affecting him at all? 
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: Look, he was aggressive. He played his game within our system. Again, we were limited because of the number of second-chance opportunities that they got. If we can cut into those 16 and get ourselves seven or eight more opportunities to have the ball where they don't have it, that's going to be something that's going to be very positive for us. And it's going to help Dirk, too. 
 Because the more we can get the ball and move it up the floor without getting their defense completely set, that's always going to help your offensive game. 

 Q. Could you tell the injury affected him? 
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: It happened the last three minutes, I believe. It was bent either this way or this way, I forget which. They had to kind of get it straightened out and put a thing on it. So we'll see. He's not going to complain. At this point, anything short of a compound fracture, you play. 

 Q. Not to dwell on that, but in general, if something is not right with that guide hand, as opposed to obviously the shooting hand, how much can that affect the shot? 
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: We'll find out. Dirk has played with a lot of injuries. He's played hurt. It's one of the reasons he's becoming a legendary player. Some of the things he's gone through and some of the things he's played with and how quickly he's bounced back. He's never going to be a guy to complain about those kinds of things. I'm sure you'll get a chance to ask him about it. He'd be better to ask than me. I know he's going to play. I know he's not going to make an issue of it. 

 Q. How do you get Jet to be more effective and more involved when they use LeBron on him defensively? 
 COACH RICK CARLISLE: Execution-wise, we've got to do better. We have to screen better. We've got to make sure that everybody is in the right place. It's difficult, and they're paying him a very high compliment by putting their best defensive player on him. And I think that's something that tells you how important they feel Jet is to us. 
 We've looked at it. We'll do some things that we think can help us. But, again, I am going to keep getting back to the fact that the second-chance opportunities are taking us out of seven, eight, nine, ten other chances we have to get the ball up the floor and get into our game, our flow game, which is our best brand of basketball. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT