ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 12, 2018
Kirstie Gordon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
England - 64/3 (9.3)-DLS, Bangladesh - 76/9   
 Q.  Brilliant performance on your England debut, Kirstie.  How does it feel?  
KIRSTIE GORDON: Yeah, it's really special.  I didn't know if I was going to make my debut tonight.  Nobody knew if we were going to get a game in.  It's really special to make my debut and to pick up some wickets, as well.   
 Q.  What was the pitch like out there?  
KIRSTIE GORDON: It was actually a decent wicket.  There wasn't much turn out there, so it was all about trying to hold a good length and trying to get the batters to come at us a little bit.   
 Q.  Did you know when Heather Knight was going to call on you roughly?  
KIRSTIE GORDON: Not exactly.  I thought it might be quite early at the powerplay.  It was the first over at the powerplay, so at least I didn't have too much time to think about it, and off I went, yeah.   
 Q.  Two months ago you probably weren't expecting to be here.  How does it feel to be out here and part of this England setup?  
KIRSTIE GORDON: Yeah, absolutely.  Not at all, I did not expect to be out here.  No, it's really special.  The vibe around the country, the girls and the three newbies have been treated really, really well, so it's really great to be part of this team, and hopefully we can achieve great things.   
 Q.  You've had so much support from folks back in Scotland, people on Twitter.  You've received so many notifications when you get back.  How do you feel about the support you're still getting from the folks back home in Scotland?  
KIRSTIE GORDON: No, that's fantastic, and it means a lot to me, especially making that transition wasn't easy at all, and to know I've got support from fans and family back home, yeah, it means everything.   
 Q.  Kirstie, you mentioned your friends and family back home.  You've obviously got a couple of family in the crowd, as well.  Can you put into words what it means to do that in front of your parents over here on the world stage?  
KIRSTIE GORDON: No, honestly, it means everything.  They've traveled the world with me a little bit, and they live every moment with me, live every decision with me, as well.  It's so special for them to be out here and to watch me make my debut today.   
 Q.  And obviously two very proud Scottish parents, but an English granny who I think will be particularly delighted?  
KIRSTIE GORDON: Oh, she will.  She'll be watching at home, I know she will, and she'll be loving every second of it.   
 Q.  Was there a little bit of disappointment that you did not manage to bowl Bangladesh out in the end?  
KIRSTIE GORDON: Not really.  You know, I think our aim is just always to bowl as well as we can and restrict them to the lowest total as possible, and I think we did that.  The batters went out with the intent they always do and knocked off the runs.   
 Q.  You make it sound like it was easy, but they did make a little bit of a meal of it early on.  What was the feeling like in the dugout when both Danni Wyatt and Tammy Beaumont got out very early?  
KIRSTIE GORDON: Yeah, you know, we bat so deep in this team that the opener's job is to go out and go hard, sometimes it doesn't pay off, and Heather and Jonesy all bat so well, we were always confident that no matter who was at the crease, we'd get the job done.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT