SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2016
Kirk Triplett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Three round in the 60s, just talk about your week.  What's working out?
KIRK TRIPLETT: A little different every day.  Pretty scruffy today.  I had some really good short game today.  A little tougher conditions I thought.  Some good pins.  A little bit more wind.  It made you think.
The greens are still receptive and guys can still make birdies.  So I'm going to have to go out there and 12-, 13-under's not going to win it, you're going to have to get to 15, 16 to have a chance.
Q. If you start the day four or five back tomorrow, do you think it's still gettable?
KIRK TRIPLETT: I think so.  It's the kind of course when you got the lead and you start playing conservative and you have 30 footers and you're always putting over a slope or a side slope, the guy that's behind can shoot at a few more pins and if you guess right, you can make a few more birdies.
Q. Do you like the position of being a chaser?
KIRK TRIPLETT: I like to be 10 ahead.
(Laughter.)
I think I would rather be in the lead.  I think most guys would.  They might say they want to be the chaser, but only when they are the chaser.
Q. What part of your game tomorrow are you going to lean on to help you?
KIRK TRIPLETT: I don't know.  It feels different every day.  You don't know what you got until you get out there.  So, I've been driving the ball great and that's what let me down on the back nine today.  So, go hit a few balls see if I can work that out.  You got to make some putts.
Q. Tell me about the birdies.  Did you chip in --
KIRK TRIPLETT: I hit it in the hazard off the tee, then I hit it in the fairway bunker, then the greenside bunker, and then I holed it out of the greenside bunker.  So that's double for the first one, double for the second one, and double for the third one, plus a birdie for double more.  So I think that's 16 times on the points.
Q. Not bad.
KIRK TRIPLETT: Yeah.
(Laughter.)
I don't think we're playing a points game here, though.
Q. Is that two days in a row you chipped in from the bunker?
KIRK TRIPLETT: No.  No.  I had some good up-and-downs this week, but one of the things about the bunkers here, if you're shooting back into all these corners, okay, you can leave yourself a 30- or 40-footer, but you're going to be putting over a slope.  If you're going to play away from the trouble.
If you hit it in the bunker, usually the slopes aren't that severe and shots are very short.  Some of the bunker shots are more makeable than the putts.  Some of them are.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT