SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2016
Kirk Triplett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell us about your round today.
KIRK TRIPLETT: A little up-and-down.  I played really nice yesterday, a lot of good shots, real even keel.
Today a couple of hiccups, especially on the front nine over there.
I tried to reach a par-5 and hit a poor shot in the water and then missed a short putt.
But finished off with a birdie, so I feel pretty good.
Q. How about the course conditions from yesterday to today.  What changed?
KIRK TRIPLETT: I think there's a couple pins that are a little bit tougher.  Greens are still receptive though, scores are still good.  So I really think the course is very similar today as it was yesterday.
Q. You've been trending in the right direction, a couple nice finishes the last two events.  So what's been working well for you recently?
KIRK TRIPLETT: I've just been playing better.  Just a little bit of everything.  Striking the ball better, making a few more putts, better frame of mind.  It all kind of goes together.
When you're not hitting the ball where you want to hit it, it's frustrating and affects other parts of your game, too.
So, I felt pretty confident coming into this week and look forward to kind of doing the same on the weekend.
Q. 8-under through two rounds.  What is the plan going forward?
KIRK TRIPLETT: Well, I don't know what the weather's going to do.  The course, I think, is going to remain receptive.  I certainly don't think 8-under's going to win the golf tournament.  So, you got to go out there and make some birdies.
Q. When you made the turn, I believe you had some birdies at 2 and 3.  Tell us about that.
KIRK TRIPLETT: Let's see, 2 and 3?  I have to think.
2, the pin was down in the left in that back hollow there.  I hit a nice shot.  Left-to-right wind, so it's hard to get it down in that corner.  Left it kind of up on the top.  And made about a 20-footer down the hill.  So real fortunate to make a birdie there.
3, I hit a decent wedge shot on the hole and had a straight in putt, 15 feet down the hill.
Those were my two birdies to get going on the front nine.
Q. Obviously, it's a Major Championship, what would it mean to you to come away with this thing?
KIRK TRIPLETT: Well, it's, you know, I never won a Major on the Regular Tour, I got in contention a couple of times, but not really like right up to the finish.  So, certainly anything that the PGA of America or the USGA or the Royal & Ancient runs, would mean a lot.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT