U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2014
Kirk Triplett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. 2-under, you should be good.KIRK TRIPLETT: Yeah.Q. Especially after being 3-over after 4.KIRK TRIPLETT: Exactly.Q. Can you tell us about that rally?KIRK TRIPLETT: Well, you know, but playing practice rounds on this course, you know you're going to make some mistakes.  So, you know, I was lucky enough to kind of hang in there. Hit a ball in the water and made a long putt for a bogey, looked like the world is ending, bogey, bogey, bogey.  Got about an eight-footer for par on the next hole and made that.  Finally hit a nice shot and made a birdie. Bottom line after that I made some really nice putts, made some decent iron shots and made some putts, some for saves, some for birdies.Q. How much softer was the course after the rain, do you think?KIRK TRIPLETT: Did it rain last night or did it rain --Q. This morning.KIRK TRIPLETT: I mean, to me, it's gotten a little softer each day.  After Wednesday morning's rain I think, you know, the balls basically have been staying wherever it hits.Q. Talk about you made the birdies on 16 and 18.KIRK TRIPLETT: 16 I hit a pitching wedge to about eight feet, and 18 I hit a 5-iron to about same distance, eight feet.  I made a lot of putts in that kind of 6- to 12-foot range, which when the greens are soft, you get some chances like that.  You have to take advantage of them. Obviously if you're hitting the ball where you're looking, the course -- you have a 5-under and a 6-under.Q. Monty made the same comment about the length of putts.  He was in the eight-foot range or so.  He said you can't get real close.  So 8 to 12 feet is a good shot?KIRK TRIPLETT: Well, no, you know, any time you get a kick in two, three feet, that's just luck, right?  Because you get into the same shot, it could be a couple-three yards either way.  Could be 10 feet short, 10 feet long. What this course does is you don't have those like gimme ones, those par-5s where you hit a 4-iron and hit a two-putt from 20 feet or pick up two at once.  Both of the par-5s on the front are very difficult.  Two good shots and a decent wedge. So, you know, 16 is reachable off the tee.  It's a daunting shot.  You know if you don't put it in the fairway, you're playing your third shot into that green from 180.  It was built to be the toughest course in the world, and it's not far from it.Q. Do you remember anything from your appearance here in the 1984 U.S. Amateur, recall anything about the golf course, anything difficult?KIRK TRIPLETT: I remember I stayed in a house left of the 10th fairway and there were about three or four houses on the course.  I remember it was Sammy Randolph and Scott Verplank in the finals.  And I was long gone. I was still in town.  There was four or five of us staying in this house.  We had a good time.  I missed the 36-hole cut.  I didn't make the match play that year. But I did have a little flashback the other day.  I was hitting in the locker room and Rocco Mediate walked around the corner.  I knew there was something that happened with Rocco in that '84 amateur, and it just finally hit me when he walked by.  I said you beat Jay Sigel that year. Little things pop in there, not that it's an important story or whatever, but it's little things you can remember.  I can't remember what I had for breakfast but I can remember what I had in the front nine in '84.Q. What did you have for breakfast?KIRK TRIPLETT: I just told you I couldn't remember.Q. Well, eat it again.KIRK TRIPLETT: It was very good after that start.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT