U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2013
Kirk Triplett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell us about your day. 
KIRK TRIPLETT:   Just a nice, solid front nine and kind of the way I've been playing all week, not getting a ton out of it, shot 1 under.   Then on the back nine I jump started it by hitting it three feet on 13 for eagle, made that.   Birdied‑‑ hit two good shots right up next to the green, birdied 14.   Made a nice par save on 17 and rolled in a no‑brainer on 18.   4 under on the back nine.

Q.   What did you hit on 13? 
KIRK TRIPLETT:   13, I hit a 3 wood.   It was 263 to the front, mostly downwind.   They had the tee up, and I had been hitting driver from the top tee and getting it close to the green.   So I knew driver was too much.

Q.   Nice to finish like this then, huh? 
KIRK TRIPLETT:   Yeah, yeah.   I haven't been playing very well.   Certainly wasn't getting a lot out of my rounds.   I felt like I was putting the ball in good enough position to shoot better scores, but I just wasn't‑‑ I wasn't hitting enough good iron shots.   I wasn't making any putts, but I was always 30, 40 feet. 
So I still didn't make a lot of putts, but I eagled 2.   I hit a 3 wood about 15 feet, eagled 2, and then I two‑putted for birdie on 6.   Bogeyed 8. 
Had some other chances in there that were decent, but made some nice par putts too.

Q.   What did you make of the setup today?   There was a lot of low scores yesterday.   There are some today. 
KIRK TRIPLETT:   Well, I think it's tougher today.   The greens are‑‑ any time it's hot and the wind's blowing a little bit, the greens‑‑ some of the greens dry out.   Some of the greens don't.   It's impossible to‑‑ it's just one more variable, right?   Is this green sitting down in a bowl, protected?   It's going to be slower.   It's going to receive shots better, chips, putts, whatever. 
It's just hard to figure out, and I think the guys that are going well are making the correct decisions as well as hitting the ball properly.   That's the difference out there.   It takes a little bit of luck.

Q.   A lot of folks have said that hitting the fairway was the key to success on the golf course.   But even the fairways are harder to hit just because of the way they cant so much, and you only have half to kind of aim at. 
KIRK TRIPLETT:   Well, yeah, some of them, but the fairways never got as hard as they could have.   They kept the fairways reasonably soft.   You could a lot of times see the pitch mark where your ball hit. 
If the fairways got really fast, like some of the U.S. Opens, it would have been very, very difficult to keep the ball in play. 
Now, when things dry out, the rough dries out.   The rough is way more playable today than it was on Tuesday.   You can hit it in the first, even the second cut, and the ball's going to react for you.   They still had to keep watering the greens, so you could fly a wedge or a 9 iron onto the green from the rough, and the ball is going to stay on the green for you if you hit the front third.   That's not always the case at a U.S. Open. 
But, yes, and the fairways are fairly generous on the hard holes.   No.10 and 12 sort of being the exception, but No.8 is very wide.   No.18 is very wide.   You have a number of holes where the fairways are pretty generous for an Open championship of this type.

Q.   What do you make of the crowds here at Omaha? 
KIRK TRIPLETT:   Unbelievable.   I played in the U.S. Open at Congressional two years ago when Rory won.   There's as many people here as there was there, easily.   Same kind of crowd too, into their golf, loving it, rooting you on, wanting to see good shots.   Very impressive.

Q.   It's fun too, isn't it? 
KIRK TRIPLETT:   Yeah.   You feel‑‑ as a player, that's thrilling to be out there, people yelling, hooting and hollering, and you're playing.   Then you're two holes away, and you hear a roar, and three holes the other way you hear a roar.   You know guys are making birdies and hitting good shots. 
A lot of the events we play, on the Champions Tour especially, they don't get galleries this size and certainly not this active either.   So hats off to Omaha.   They did a great job.

Q.   Congratulations on a great round.   Really enjoyed it. 
KIRK TRIPLETT:   Thank you.   Appreciate it.

Q.   Hope the score holds up.   Then you won't have to qualify.   Top ten. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT