U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2012
Kirk Triplett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   All right.   I'm here with Kirk Triplett.   You shot 1 under today.   Can you give me some overall impressions of your round and how the golf course is playing? 
KIRK TRIPLETT:   I think the course was a little different from the practice rounds.   A little softer in spots.   It was certainly there for the taking.   The scores are certainly lower than I thought they were going to be.   Any time you come to a new venue, that's one of the things.   You know, Tuesday and Wednesday, the course is one way.   Thursday, it's something completely different.   As we get to know the course better during the week, hopefully we'll make fewer mistakes.

Q.   Tom Watson said yesterday you had to hit 70 percent of your fairways to even have a chance to contend.   You hit 71 percent today.   Would you agree with that?   Did that help you get the ball around the course? 
KIRK TRIPLETT:   Well, it's been my experience Tom Watson knows what he's talking about.   So that's probably a pretty good indication of what you need to do.   I think definitely length is not as much of a factor this week as it is some weeks.   Certainly, accuracy is more important. 
There are some decent lies in the rough, but it's kind of random.   You can get some lies where you have a lot of uphill shots to the green.   And coming out of the rough, you just can't count on that.   So by the end of the week, I'm sure, if you looked at driving, the driving accuracy stat, that will correlate closely to the top letters. 

Q.   You had a couple bogeys in a row on the back nine but recovered pretty quickly with back to back birdies.   Talk about how you bounced back there. 
KIRK TRIPLETT:   I hit kind of a stuck patch in the middle there, 10 through 13.   I really didn't play the holes very well.   I hit a real nice shot into 13 after two very bad approaches on 11 and 12 and didn't get up and down for par on either one.   Or 12 and 13. 
I hit a nice approach into 14 and then got it up next to the green in two on 15, the par 5, made a birdie.   Hit two very good shots on 16, made a birdie, and kind of righted the ship the last four or five holes.

Q.   So you've seen the course for 18 holes as it's set up for the championship.   How does that change the way you prepare for the rest of the weekend? 
KIRK TRIPLETT:   I don't think it changes it at all.   I think we had a pretty good handle on it.   Like I say, I'm just surprised to look up and see somebody shoot 5, 6, 7 under.   I thought maybe 3 or 4 under somebody would get to.   But overall, shoot under par in a major first day, you got to be thrilled and try to go out and do the same thing.

Q.   Absolutely.   Thank you so much. 
KIRK TRIPLETT:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT