JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 9, 2009
Kirk Triplett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Obviously you get to 6-under, what were you able to do well? What did the golf course give you?  
 KIRK TRIPLETT: Well, the greens are soft. If you hit some nice shots in there, you can get the ball pretty close to the hole. And the greens aren't real fast, so you can be aggressive with the putts.  
 I got off to a good start. I'm really not hitting the ball very well. I had some very good saves and made my birdie putts and just hit some poor shots coming in.  
  
  Q. For you, I mean, obviously you haven't had the kind of year that you've wanted, so was it nice to at least get a nice start going?  
 KIRK TRIPLETT: Well, yeah. If you had told me I'd shoot 4-under today, I'd be very happy. But being 6-under with a few to play, I would have liked to have done better. You know, it's a long week. It's 15-, 20-under. You're not going to shoot it all in one day. I would have liked to have had more, but I'm thrilled with 4-under.   
  
  Q. Off to a great start today. Just kind of talk about the beginning, I guess.   
 KIRK TRIPLETT: Well, you know, the golf course is very soft. There are going to be some very good scores this afternoon. 4-under looks nice up there right now, but there will be a lot of good scores this afternoon. It takes four 4- or 5-under rounds to do well here, so I've got one under my belt, and hopefully I can get three more.  
  
  Q. Did you hit it well today?  
 KIRK TRIPLETT: Not particularly. I kept the ball in play. I mis-hit a number of iron shots. I made some very good up-and-downs. For shooting 4-under I missed quite a few greens. But I was able to kind of hang in there and make the three- and four-foot saves after some very good chips, and then on the last two holes I wasn't able to do that.  
  
  Q. The rain yesterday, how did that sort of affect today?  
 KIRK TRIPLETT: Well, the golf course was firm and bouncing and playing quite nice, in perfect shape on Tuesday, and now you've got a little bit of mud on your ball, casual water in spots. But the course has held up very well. It's made it easier to score at least.   
  
  Q. Some good vibes for you coming back here where you've had some success?  
 KIRK TRIPLETT: I always enjoy coming back here. I feel like I've let this tournament get away from me a couple times, and I don't have that many more times to play, so this is one I'd really like to get.  
  
  Q. Is there more pressure on you then in that regard?  
 KIRK TRIPLETT: Yeah, there's pressure on me every day, every shot out there. Every shot counts the same as other ones in that respect. I mean, it's a new thing for me, kind of winding down my career a little bit. I'm not playing quite as much, so yeah, when you get off to a good start and you're doing well, you kind of feel like, okay, I'd better get out there and get it; this might be one of my last chances. But it's no different from it being your first time trying to get out there and do this; hey, I've never really this before, I'm kind of nervous. That being said, I know what to do out here, I've just got to do it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT