FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
May 26, 2005
Kirk Triplett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Kirk, for joining us for a few minutes in the media center at the FedEx St. Jude Classic.  No bogeys out there.  Six birdies, three on each side, great day.
KIRK TRIPLETT:  Yeah.
Q.  Why don't you talk about the conditions this afternoon.  We had Justin in this morning and he said it was perfect.
KIRK TRIPLETT:  Just light breezes, warm, not uncomfortable.  Us 40 year olds when we get our back loose, it's no problem.  Chamber of commerce weather.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Questions, please.
Q.  Some of the guys early said it was firming up.  They thought it would play a little tougher for you guys?
KIRK TRIPLETT:  It played shorter.  The pins were for the most part set up so you could get at them, bouncing the ball in.  There was a couple you needed to stay away from.  That shows on the scoreboard a little bit.  Some of the guys with some experience were playing it out there 20, 30 feet.  On the other holes you can go right at it and try to get your birdies.  The golf course needs a drink, there is no doubt.  It is really dry.
Q.  With the course changes it may not be that easy to score on this course?
KIRK TRIPLETT:  I think if you compare the scoring today to years past it is significantly higher.  For the whole field I am not talking about the leaderboard.  There are only 23 guys at that number.  It bunched up more in the past.  The second lowest score is 3 under and you have never had that before.  It is more difficult.
Q.  Earlier Justin was talking about he has got two young children now.  You have some kids just starting elementary school.  How do you handle their schedules?  I guess they are probably in school now; is that tougher?
KIRK TRIPLETT:  I have four kids and the oldest are in third grade, just finished third grade this year.  Over the last three or four years they haven't travelled as much.  In the earlier years we would go to 20 plus out of the 25 events.  That is a big undertaking for mom.  Probably even more of an undertaking for her to stay home when I am on the road.  In the last couple of years before we had done the five or six together, one in the spring and one in the fall.
Q.  Has it changed your schedule in terms of what you do?
KIRK TRIPLETT:  It is hard being away from the kids.  I never play more than two or three weeks at a time anyway.  Never gone from home more than two weeks at a time.  I have been fortunate enough to live by that schedule and stick to it.  I would like to cut back, but I would like to play 15.  I'm not good enough.  So I play about 25 events a year; almost always have.  I will do that as long as they let me.
Q.  If I could talk about the momentum that generated on 17 and 18?
KIRK TRIPLETT:  For me, you know, you know this course from years past.  There are little stretches there that you can really get under par, make three or four birdies out of five or six holes.  I passed that stretch on the back nine and was only 1 under.  I was looking at playing 17 and 18 which were difficult.  I made two birdies on them so it was    that was what got my rounds going and got me thinking.  Let's shoot a few under today.  Keep going with that.

My birdies today, 17, 18 and 7, those are three holes if you look at Southwind you wouldn't say those are the three holes I am going to birdie today.

No. 12, I hit 3 wood and 9 iron to about 15 feet.  You got it on Shot Link.

17, I hit a driver and the 7 iron 18 feet.

18, I hit a driver and 5 iron about 15 feet.
Q.  Ten and a half feet?
KIRK TRIPLETT:  Ten and half feet.

No. 1, I hit pitching wedge to about the foot.
Q.  It was two feet?
KIRK TRIPLETT:  Looked like a foot to me after those other ones.
Q.  No. 3, I laid up and hit a sand wedge probably about eight feet?
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  8.8.
KIRK TRIPLETT:  7, I hit a 5 iron about 18 feet.

So I had two good saves.  First hole today, No. 10, I hit an mediocre iron shot, it had a skip and went in the bunker.

Then No. 5, the par 5 they converted to par 4, I had the trees off the tee and it dropped down.  I had a nice shot under the tree branches, ran through the green, pitched it back and made that.  That was the momentum keeper there in the round with some hard holes coming up.  All in all, very happy.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT