WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 25, 2005
Kirk Triplett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Talk about your day today.  You made quick work of Craig Parry.
KIRK TRIPLETT:  Got off to a good start.  I birdied four out of the first seven holes, and he made a bogey or two.  And then I got in trouble a couple of times, but he got in trouble at the same time and I had a 5 up lead through the 10th hole and just kind of made some pars after that.
Q.  When you get 3 , 4  or 5 up, is it hard to kind of just step on the guy's neck?
KIRK TRIPLETT:  Well, sure it's hard, but you make a conscious effort to do that.  I haven't played that much match play.  I've played this tournament a few times.  You know what you need to try and do, and you try and make the effort, but you try not to do anything crazy.  You don't just go pin hunting from 200 yards.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
KIRK TRIPLETT:  Well, a little bit of everything.  Just played consistently so far.  I guess what went well for me yesterday is I played a guy that wasn't playing well.  And today kind of the same thing, got a couple under through 13 holes.  But there's a little bit of luck involved in that.

I've been able to put the ball in play.  The way the rough is out here this week, that's a big thing.
Q.  Sometimes it's almost better to be hitting first?
KIRK TRIPLETT:  It's much better to be hitting first, yeah.
Q.  Put the pressure on the other player.

Some people compare this to the NCAA tournament.  When a No. 1 seed loses here, some people feel, fans, media, whatever, that it's not really a good thing.  But at NCAA tournaments, people love the underdogs.  What's your feeling, do people root for an underdog if you go up against a Tiger?
KIRK TRIPLETT:  I think there's only a few guys out there that are truly favored.  It's probably less than ten.  And I think people in golf tend to pull more for the Tour events probably than they do for the underdogs.  The NCAA, you're playing on neutral courts all the time, so the people that are watching, they're probably not from those particular schools, so they tend to pull for the underdogs in that case.  But people are out here watching their favorites, and that's who they're pulling for.  You don't get that Cinderella story kind of feel here that you do, I think, in the tournaments.
Q.  And the difference between you beating Mike Weir is not like Gonzaga beating Duke; anybody can win in any match out here?
KIRK TRIPLETT:  You've got four or five guys    in a team sport, if one of your top players is having an off day, the team can pick him up.  That's why teams are a little more consistent than individuals.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT