BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 24, 2004
Kirk Triplett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  Another great day today, a 9-under 63.  I think the most impressive statistic this week so far is the 72 holes without a bogey.  Can you talk about that so far?

KIRK TRIPLETT:   Yeah, that's what it is.  (Laughing) I'm not saying anymore about that. 

TODD BUDNICK:  Okay.  Tell us about your 9-under today. 

KIRK TRIPLETT:   Well, you get back to the deal of where you're just trying to play every hole the best you can.  I've made some great par saves, and, you know, there's been a few times up there where I've been thinking, "Oh, man, I need to make one and get it over with." 

You know, I'm making some putts, hitting some good shots and conditions are pretty good for scoring over here at Indian Wells. 

TODD BUDNICK:  It looks like you had 31s on both sides.  Pretty consistent playing today.

KIRK TRIPLETT:   I took advantage of the par 5s.  I holed a bunker shot and had some good things happen.  You get a lot of opportunities over here.  If you drive the ball in the fairway, you have a lot of holes where you're going to get a chance to make a birdie.  I'm rolling the putts in.  I feel confident doing it.  I need to continue.  It's not like I've made enough to win the golf tournament.  I need to make half a dozen or so more, at least. 


Q.  Is there any advantage of playing Indian Wells, which is perceived as the easiest course of the four, going into the final round?

KIRK TRIPLETT:   Well, I think there's an advantage playing Indian Wells, if you've got the momentum and you're playing with well.  Indian wells can be extremely frustrating from you're shooting 2-under on it. 

I was looking forward to today.  I thought if I played well and made a few putts, I could shoot a score like I did.  I've had years where I have not done that, but this year I did and I'm happy take advantage of it.  It's got me right in position to challenge for the victory. 


Q.  Can you recall the last time you went 72 holes without a bogey? 

KIRK TRIPLETT:   Yeah.  Never. (Laughs).


Q.  And you kind of kid about not wanting to talk about it, and then you did, are you superstitious about the fact that you haven't? 

KIRK TRIPLETT:   Well, no.  Once in awhile, stuff like that happens to you.  You bring it up or you hear the commentator, the guy is a great this or a great that and immediately he blows whatever they were saying he was doing well. 

It's something that I'll remember.  I'm excited about it and hopefully I can extend it to 90. 


Q.  You've broken through and won a couple of tournaments of the last couple of years.  Do you carry a different mindset into the final group previous to winning Nissan a couple of years ago? 

KIRK TRIPLETT:   The only difference is now I know that I've done it before.  Before the first victory, I had to challenge myself and accept the challenge and say:  Yes, you can win it even though you've never done it before.  At some point you have to take that leap.  I'm still trying to do it the same way. 

Winning the two tournaments I've won has not made me go, oh, no, I was doing it all wrong before.  I was doing it the right way before.  I just wasn't getting the job done. 


Q.  So there's no change in your confidence from when you didn't win before to now? 

KIRK TRIPLETT:   Well, I think there's change in my confidence.  There's no change in any game plan and what I'm going to go out there and try and do. 

TODD BUDNICK:  If we could just go through your birdies and the eagle. 

KIRK TRIPLETT:   I birdied No. 3.  I hit a pitching wedge about 12 feet. 

I eagled 5.  I holed a bunker shot from pin-high right over there. 

I birdied 6.  I had about an 8-footer there. 

8, I hit a driver and a 3-iron over the back of the green.  Chipped down to a foot. 

11, I hit a wedge about 20 feet behind the hole from out of the trees and made a difficult putt.  That's a tough pin.  I just kind of lobbed it down there and it went in.  That's one that really kind of got me going.  I turned a poor tee shot into a birdie. 

14, I hit a chip shot up about three feet and made that. 

16, I hit a 9-iron about eight feet. 

17, I hit a 9-iron about four feet. 

TODD BUDNICK:  Well, thank you very much, Kirk, and good luck tomorrow. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT