BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 22, 2004
Kirk Triplett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  Kirk, thanks for joining us today.  You followed up your 66 at PGA West yesterday with a 65 at Bermuda Dunes today.  This tournament is one in which you've done fairly well.  Your last eight appearances, you have seven Top-20 finishes.  What is it about this tournament that you enjoy?

KIRK TRIPLETT:   Well, a long time ago, I lived in the desert and I know the courses pretty well.  I'm used to the conditions this time of year, the ryegrass.  I like West Coast.  I like to try to get off to a good start.  I'm usually fairly well prepared and I feel comfortable here. 

TODD BUDNICK:  Well, your 7-under 65 today was bogey-free.  Talk about that. 

KIRK TRIPLETT:   Bermuda Dunes, if you can drive the ball around there pretty good,  you have a lot of opportunities for birdies.  And the second shots into the greens, some of them are not quite as demanding as a couple of the other courses.  Even on your wayward shots, it seems to be the kind of course where you can make a couple of mistakes and still make your par and keep the momentum going.  I did that today and I made the birdie putts, as well.

TODD BUDNICK:  Surprisingly, you had just one birdie on the four par 5s but still were 7-under.  Did you leave a couple more out there? 

KIRK TRIPLETT:   I was not in that great of shape on the other par 5s.  I did the same thing yesterday at PGA West.  I only birdied one out of the five par 5s.  I've driven the ball well but hit poor second shots going for the greens.  I've got to where I could not get those tap-in or 2-putt birdies.  I birdied a lot of the hard holes, hit a lot of good shots and feel great about my game. 


Q.  You're taking the conservative route to 30-under, 65, 67, no 61 or 60; is that the way you like to do this? 

KIRK TRIPLETT:   If I could shoot  --  believe me, I'm trying to shoot 61.  I think everybody is.  You know, it's a long week.  Everybody knows it's going to be around 30-under but you can't shoot 30-under.  You can't beat 30-under after two days.  You just can't do it.  You have to peace yourself.  Pick a target that you're comfortable with. 

I try to pick a nine-hole target of 2- or 3-under and that's working for me so far this week.  If I can continue to do that, I'll be at that 30-under number. 


Q.  Does it amuse you in any way to shoot 66-65 and not be leading a tournament? 

KIRK TRIPLETT:   Not here, no.  I mean, there's a couple three weeks during the year where you're used to that and you expect that.  But you also know, I don't even know what's leading.  I think the board I saw over here, 14-under was leading. 

It would not surprise me to see 17-under or 18-under because you can get out there and get your confidence.  And the conditions are so good, it's not that the courses are so easy; it's just that conditions are so good and the shots have a certain sameness to them.  The courses are in great shape and when a guy gets on a roll with a putter, if he has it inside 20 feet, he's thinking about making a birdie.  You have a lot of those opportunities here.

65-66, I'm not going back to the hotel room thinking, "I've played the best golf of my life and I'm still behind."  I would expect to be behind with those two scores. 


Q.  Did you feel that this is a tournament that you can win?  You won at Riviera, which is, you know, a classic, traditional track.  You're not going to get double-digits under par after two rounds.  Do you like this kind of horse race?

KIRK TRIPLETT:   I don't mind this kind of tournament once in awhile.  I wouldn't want a steady diet of it.  I don't think any of us would.  We like the variety that comes with it.  I feel like I have a good chance here year-in and year-out because I drive my golf ball pretty well.  That's really the only place you really get in trouble around these courses if you start hitting it in the trees. 

No, I go to the two courses that are a little tighter the next two days.  So that being said, I've got to pay attention and keep doing my work to get to where I want to be. 

TODD BUDNICK:  Can you just run through your birdies real quick.

KIRK TRIPLETT:   I birdied No. 3.  I hit a sand wedge about 12 feet. 

7, the par  3, I hit a 6-iron to a foot. 

9, I hit a 9-iron to three feet. 

10, I hit a 9-iron to six feet. 

14, I hit a 9-iron to about eight feet. 

15, I hit an 8-iron to about six feet. 

18, I hit a driver and a 5-wood over the green and chipped up to a tap-in. 

TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you very much, Kirk, for joining us today.  Good luck for the rest of the week. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT