WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 20, 2002
Kirk Triplett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  You played solid against Robert Allenby.
KIRK TRIPLETT:   Yeah, we were talking about the matches out there; and that was a good match and this is a good match.  They are all good matches.  You don't look at the pairings and go, "Oh, I'm glad I got that guy."
Robert, he played okay today, but he just didn't make the putts that he needed to make, and I got two or three of them in there and that was the difference. 

Q.  Who do you have next?
KIRK TRIPLETT:   The winner of Steve Flesch and Padraig Harrington.  Looks like Steve is playing pretty good and Padraig is playing good, so I'm looking forward to it.

Q.  As you look around, has anything surprised you? 
KIRK TRIPLETT:   I haven't paid too much attention to the board.  I got a kick when I first played this tournament  -- I was over in Tucson and analyzing it and, I think, Jimmy Roberts was the one who was confounded by all of the upsets. 
It's almost easier to play as of the lower seeds than it is to play  -- you're a free-wheeler.  I think I get a little tentative not to make a mistake more than stroke-play because you don't want to give a hole away. 

Q.  Can you talk about Retief Goosen, who very quietly has sky-rocketed; do you know much about him?  Have you had a chance to play with him at all?
KIRK TRIPLETT:   You mean other than the fact that he's probably one of the Top 5 golfers in the world?  Anything else?  (Laughter.)
Well, you know, there's a number of guys I guess that you would say can sneak up on you, if you don't really watch over in Europe, or South Africa, Australia.  The guy has got a super, super game all around. 

Q.  What was the turning point in the match today?
KIRK TRIPLETT:   It was definitely on No. 12.  We both had shots to the green in two.  Robert was much closer than I was.  I hit it in the left bunker and hit a very poor bunker shot about 15 feet, and Robert was just off the green.  It was a tough little shot he had, but he hit it in there about five feet.  Made my putt and then he ripped his and that put me 2-up. 
Then he hit it very close two holes later on the long par he missed while I was making a par. 

Q.  How far was that?
KIRK TRIPLETT:   He hit it about six feet  -- he had 210 uphill into the wind.  I hit what I thought was a pretty good 5-wood in there 20 feet right of the hole, and I was quite happy with my shot and he stuffs it in there six feet. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT