CANON GREATER HARTFORD OPEN
July 1, 2000
Kirk Triplett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 KIRK TRIPLETT: Well, I riding right in with Gumpy, Scott Gump on Wednesday, and they
have got that little sign out front, he's giving me the arm: "There's my name up
there." He shot 62 or whatever last year, so he was -- he had the course record. So I
said, "I'm going to beat you this week." That's what I did. The golf course has
been playing great all week. Guys have been shooting up. Greens are still soft. I keep
waiting for them to get hard. I think the course is playing a little bit short, because
the fairways are firm, and greens are receptive. Low scores, low scores, no wind. Little
wind, very little wind.  
 
Q. Kirk, after Thursday's round, you said the reason why you played well was because
you didn't have to make any 5-footers for pars, and today it seemed like you had them all
for birdies?
 
 KIRK TRIPLETT: Yeah, I had a bunch that length, but I did have a couple of good saves
to keep the momentum going. I missed a putt here or there, and I made the lion's share of
them, and there's no question. I mean, yesterday was a bit of a struggle all day, a lot of
40-and 50-foot, 30-foot birdie putts. So you're putting for birdie, but you're not really
putting for birdie; you're 2-putting for par, and when I did get in trouble I couldn't get
out of it. But no question, that was the difference.  
 
Q. Is this your low round on the TOUR? 
 
 KIRK TRIPLETT: My low number, 61. I've shot 9-under a couple times at North Course at
Torrey Pines. Lee's probably got all that information. But I don't think too many times to
know.  
 
Q. How about course records, how many course records have you had? 
 
 KIRK TRIPLETT: How many course records do I have? I don't know. Probably two or three
now. I got one at Rancho -- no, what's the name of that place, Shandon Hills, San
Bernadino, Incline. I've got one somewhere else, but I can't think of where it is.  
 
Q. Are they as low as 61? 
 
 KIRK TRIPLETT: Yeah, two of them are 61, but par 72.  
 
Q. Do you think being seven shot back was -- you were going to be -- that was too far
away? 
 
 KIRK TRIPLETT: I was very discouraged last night after the round yesterday, because it
was tough conditions, and I'm playing around the lake down there, and I just butchered it
and went and bogeyed 16, doubled 17. You know, I was having trouble believing I was even
-- because I was playing very well, and I was 7-under par with about three holes, and I
had just played that stretch of holes that's downwind and parred 15, and I was like, how
can I only be 7-under par? Well, boom, I wasn't; I was 4-under par. And I was very
discouraged about it last night, feeling a little frustrated, because I knew that I was
playing well, but I needed to -- I needed to stay in contact with these guys and not let
them get that far ahead. It's not very often you go out and shoot 9-under. You go out and
play really well and shoot 4- or 5-under, and then I'm at 8 or 9 and chances are, you
know, Mark might be 15 or 14 at the end of the day, and you're still 6- or 7- back.  
 
Q. Did you find a groove very early then to get going?
 
 KIRK TRIPLETT: Well, I hit it close on 1. I hit it two feet on No. 1 and missed it and
walked off the green just shaking my head. And then I birdied 2, 3 and 4. And then I had
-- I felt like I could shoot really low. And I hit a great drive on 6, and standing there
about 240 from the green to walk away with a par. And then I drove it in the rough on 7,
and I felt like it was kind of slipping away, but I made a really nice par on 7. It was in
the rough, I hit it in the green-side bunker, hit a nice bunker shot off an uphill lie,
long-distance bunker shot, got in there four feet, five feet; made the putt, and I feel
like that kind of held the round together. Hit a nice iron shot on 8. Missed the putt from
about 10, 12 feet. Hit a horrible shot on 9, and then made a 60-footer, and I felt like
this is going to be one of those days, if I can just, you know, hang in there.  
 
Q. You said you were discouraged after yesterday's round. How did you turn it around
mentally today and shoot just such a great score?
 
 KIRK TRIPLETT: Took my kids out to Friendly's and had ice cream. (Laughs). No, I came
out this morning, and I was -- I didn't think we had done a good job picking clubs
yesterday, between my caddy and I, and I was frustrated. You know, we had a little
discussion about it while I was warming up, and I was hitting it good. I don't know what
clicked. I just kind of went back to Thursday's round -- I knew I was still playing well,
and that was kind of the key. 
 
Q. When you got to 16 or 17, were you thinking at all about the course record, knowing
that you had to make a birdie or two?
 
 KIRK TRIPLETT: I knew what it was, because of that story that I told you. That wasn't
the foremost thought in my mind. There's a lot of guys out there that are 10 -, 11-,
12-under par, and I'm trying to get ahead of them and make them get to me. And I'm still
trying to make birdies, all the cliches, one hole at a time, and this and that. But you're
standing on 17 tee, there's only one thing you're thinking about: Keeping it out of the
lake. I can't care what the situation, you can be 10-over par, you're still thinking the
same thing: Keep the ball out of the lake. Then we hit it on the hillside and made double.
Or if you hit it on in the lake off the tee, you still make bogey. So, no, I didn't really
think about the course record until the last hole. I hit kind of a real mediocre tee shot
on 1. Had a long ways into that tight pin and hit a very nice iron, I wanted to give that
putt a chance, let it roll, just hit the bottom.  
 
Q. You said today's scoring conditions were almost perfect, and was there ever a course
that you ran into that was the exact opposite of perfect scoring conditions? 
 
 KIRK TRIPLETT: Yeah, pretty much -- I'm not going to say all of them, but a number of
them. I remember one time we were in Taipei or two hours outside of Taipei, you always had
about a two-hour bus ride to the golf course because they don't build them in the
population center. So we took the bus out there. It's raining; I had been there two weeks.
It rained every single day, and I'm asking -- I'm standing at the scoreboard I asked the
guy, "Where's the putting green?" And that was my first time out there, Lin Kao
(ph) was the name of the course. I saw the range and asked, "Where's the putting
green at?" He goes like this (indicating pointing down): We were standing on it. Sure
enough, there was about three cups cut in there, dirt and grass. We didn't practice my
putting a lot.  
 
Q. Do you think that putt on the 9th hole was a real big momentum-booster for you? 
 
 KIRK TRIPLETT: Oh, yeah because that was a tough putt. I would have been happy with two
putts there, and I make it; and so I felt, well, you know even if I hit a bad shot now, I
know I can recover and still potentially make a birdie. And it kind of flipped my switch a
little bit, because I had just missed the putt on 8 where I hit a nice iron in there; and
7, I struggled for par; and 6, I felt like I, you know, wasted a little bit there. And
then 9, boom, I pick one up right where I didn't think I would. Played pretty good in from
there on in. 
 
Q. What are the emotions like now 24 hours after having a lousy time? Does everything
just feel differently after having such a good day?
 
 KIRK TRIPLETT: The colors are more vibrant. There's no clouds in the sky. I always like
coming to this tournament, because I feel like I have the chance to win this tournament. I
mean, really, in my heart, I believe that. I've never done it. I've been in contention a
bunch of times on Sunday here. And I felt that way on Thursday; I felt like I'm going to
be in contention all week. The way I was playing on Thursday, I just had that, you know,
that feeling. And then to lose it on Friday and to regain it today, I feel fortunate.  
 
Q. Why do you have that feeling? 
 
 KIRK TRIPLETT: Why do I have that feeling? I think just because I played here quite a
bit in the past and am comfortable on the golf course, you know, I have success to build
on. Like next week, we go over to that golf course in Chicago, I finally quit going. No
matter how good I play, I can't finish better than 40th. I don't know why. I like the
course. I like it just as much or better than this one.  
 
Q. (Inaudible.) 
 
 KIRK TRIPLETT: There's a bunch of guys that are like that here. I mean, Junior, who
else plays good: Stewart Cink Olin Browne, Kevin Sutherland, a lot of guys.  
 
Q. Is there something you learned in L.A. that you're going to take into tomorrow? 
 
 KIRK TRIPLETT: Well, you know I probably won't know that until I do it. I learned a lot
of things in L.A., and I think probably the biggest thing was to kind of accept the
challenge of being in the lead or being in contention, and, you know, things start going
the wrong way for you; don't let that determine your outlook. You can make a couple of
mistakes and still win the tournament. So I'm certainly going to try and remember that,
because I probably won't play a perfect round of golf tomorrow. I mean, I shot 9-under
today, and it wasn't a perfect round of golf.  
 
Q. Can you go over your birdies, please? 
 
 KIRK TRIPLETT: I birdied 2. I hit a sand wedge in about five feet. Birdied 3, I hit a
7-iron out of the fairway bunker to about 7, 8 feet. Birdied 4, I hit a 6-iron 20 feet.
Saved par on 7 from five feet. Birdied 9. I hit an 8-iron to 60 feet. Saved par on 10. Hit
a sand wedge, came out of the bunker to two feet, three feet. 12, I hit a sand wedge to
eight feet. 13, I hit a 3-wood on the green and 2-putted from 40 feet. 15, I drove it just
short of the green and chipped it up there about two and a half feet. 16, I hit a 6-iron
three feet. 17, I hit an 8-iron about six feet. That's it. Missed a 20-footer on 18.  
 
Q. That 60-footer, what did you see? What was your line on it? 
 
 KIRK TRIPLETT: Just a little left-to-right swing, maybe 18 inches or so. It was kind of
up-and-down, up over the hump and then down.  
 
Q. What was the club you hit on 1 to two feet? 
 
 KIRK TRIPLETT: Pitching wedge.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT