THE SENIOR OPEN PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 27, 2018
Kirk Triplett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Not only how pleased are you after your position after 36 holes but just to get the golf in today?
KIRK TRIPLETT: Well, yeah, with the fog this morning, I mean it was such a pleasant morning, it's a shame there was fog.  But yeah, to wait around a couple of hours that's always tough.  But you've got a lot of daylight here, so I'm not too worried about getting a round?
Q. How do you feel about your position after 36 holes?
KIRK TRIPLETT: I feel like I played very well.  I'm happy to be near the lead or tied for the lead, whatever it ends up being, but I would like to have another shot at that 18th hole.  But that's what happens.  You get a little bit too aggressive and that's why they call it the belly of sin.  So I should have played for long and took my four or maybe a three if I made it and moved on.  But I paid the price.
Q. How have you been able to kind of navigate this course so easy the first two days?
KIRK TRIPLETT: Well, I've got a lot of help from a local caddy who's done some work on the European Tour, but this is his home course.  He's done a great job for me.  Jon's been fantastic and kind of stands with me on every tee and points it out, you know, kind of where to go.  And today was significantly different from yesterday.  The course had a lot more fire in it, especially going out the front nine, and it played really long coming in.  The back nine is tough, you know.  When the wind blows from the south or the east this way, it's all you want those last six or seven holes.
Q. And speaking of conditions, weather examined to roll in over the next couple of days.  How does that change your game plan, if at all?
KIRK TRIPLETT: I have no game plan over here.  All I do is react to what happens.  I look outside, it's raining, I put my rain jacket on.  Right?  My ball bounces in the bunker and I gotta chip out sideways, that's what I do.  It's a reactionary game over here.  You can try and make it perfect.  But you can take this yardage book and just throw it away most of the time.  You know, you're hitting a 5-iron from 140 yards, what good is your yardage book doing you?  So it's just more of a, hey, whatever comes, you gotta figure out to play it.  And look, that course is tough out there.  These guys are shooting a couple, 3-under.  The cut's right around par.  I mean they know how to do it over here.
Q. For somebody we've heard you say you're not necessarily the biggest fan of links golf.  How satisfying is it for you to be in contention in a major championship perhaps?
KIRK TRIPLETT: No.  I really enjoy links golf.  I'm just not very good at it.  Right?  So through my years of playing the TOUR and whatnot, I tried to prune off the tournaments that I wasn't really competitive at.  You know, I came over here, I played here, I played at Turnberry.  I felt like I played great here one year and finished 58th.  So it's hard to say, hey, boy, I can't wait to get over there and get my behind kicked.  So it's more about that.  I love that style of play.  It's fantastic, the creativity and the different shots that you play, and it's different every day.  Whatever they did here, we didn't translate it very well to home, you know, in America.  So we're so busy trying to make each shot the same every day and make it perfect and down to our green reading books and our compasses and all of our stuff.  Right?  Here it's look at it, have a go.  Right?  So that's pretty neat.
Q. Thanks, I appreciate it.
KIRK TRIPLETT: Yep.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT