OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 8, 2011
Tyler Moeller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   THE MODERATOR: We have Tyler Moeller. Questions. 

 Q. Which quarterback do you expect to see over at Purdue? Talk about the differences in the two. 
 TYLER MOELLER: I definitely expect to see both quarterbacks out there. They're both good quarterbacks. They're both athletic, can run around and throw the ball. 
 I do foresee a duel threat quarterback system on Saturday.

 Q. What did Wisconsin do against them or bother them last week? 
 TYLER MOELLER: I got to see a little bit. I didn't watch the full game of that. 
 They do a good job of spreading the ball around, doing different things. It's a tough offense when you do have a quarterback, two quarterbacks, that can throw and run the ball at the same time, giving them an extra man, so to speak, to do things. 

 Q. Just wondering what you remember about playing there in 2009 and how much that game has been brought up this week. 
 TYLER MOELLER: I don't really remember too much from that game just because I had a brain injury. I wasn't at the game. I don't really remember too much of that period of my life so it's hard to comment. Weak excuse, I apologize (smiling). 
 For me personally, I really don't look at past games and past experience. That's a different team. We're a different team. But I do know any team could beat any team and we have to do a good job of starting strong and finishing strong, too. 

 Q. Purdue has had very good fortune against you when they're playing over there. Is that something you have taken special note of this week?
 TYLER MOELLER: Not really. Those things are in the back of people's minds. But you can't really take into effect those things. It's a different team this year. 
 For me, like I said before, I get excited to play at stadiums and atmospheres like that. They have great crowds, they have great fans. I'm excited to go there. I'm excited to play there.

 Q. Do you know what the standings are in the Leaders Division?
 TYLER MOELLER: I don't. I don't really pay attention to all that stuff. I pay attention to what we can control and winning this game.

 Q. What's the next immediate goal for the team do you think then?
 TYLER MOELLER: For? 

 Q. What are you shooting to do? 
 TYLER MOELLER: To win out. 

 Q. What would that get you?
 TYLER MOELLER: Hopefully things play out in our favor. But we'll see. 

 Q. As part of the defense, how much does it benefit you guys to be on a team that is predominantly run base? Does it benefit you being on the sidelines longer getting fresh or would you rather see the team pass a little more, too?
 TYLER MOELLER: It is a big benefit for the defense, you're talking about the offense being out there longer on the field. It is nice when we can get a break, catch our breath. It's tough on defense when you're out there a lot. You do get fatigued, tired. 
 Any time the offense is controlling the ball, really knocking time off the clock, we're playing good obviously. Players like myself who really haven't played that much, me with injury, just getting that experience under us, playing a couple games, getting our feet under us, I think that's the biggest thing. 
 Of course, that win was a huge win for us. To have that momentum, in football that's a huge thing. Having that momentum on our side for the last three games, I think that's a great feeling. 

 Q. You're nine games into the season. Do you feel like you have as a team a strong identity? If so, what is it?
 TYLER MOELLER: What is the identity? I don't know. We do have a strong identity. We're tough. Anything that comes our way I think we can handle. We dealt with so many things on the field, off the field this year. If something happens, I think guys are doing a great job of handling it, kind of just shrugging it off, handling it face up. That's the biggest thing about our team, we can handle adversity.

 Q. With the way a lot of teams play offense in college football, putting up big numbers, is there an attitude sometimes as a defense you can't stop them every play but we'll force them into a big mistake, we'll force a turnover? I don't know if the attitude has changed at all that maybe you have to give up something, but you have to make them pay at some point. 
 TYLER MOELLER: It is to a point. We do know that we have to make those big plays and get those turnovers and get that momentum to the offense, start them off on a short field so they can put points on the board. 
 Also, our defense, as the Silver Bullets, we strive at shutting them down. That was a big thing at the beginning of the season. Someone got a big play on us. We were like, What's happening? We're not used to it. We have gave up a little bit too many big plays than we wanted to. 
 But, yeah, our mentality is we want to stop them every play, get negative pass yards. That's tough to do, but that's our mentality.

 Q. How do you think you've done as a defense in terms of getting turnovers? 
 TYLER MOELLER: I don't think we've done a good job of it. Two big things on defense that we've been talking about is not giving up big plays, doing our job, work on stripping the ball and running to the ball. When that ball's on the ground, we need to do a good job of picking it up and creating that turnover. 
 THE MODERATOR: Tyler, thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT