OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 13, 2011
Tyler Moeller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. Tyler, we know obviously both Ohio State and Miami have been forced to deal with some off-field things this season. What's your sort of understanding or what do you know about the Miami stuff that you're just a guy on the outside looking in, what did you think when you heard about what happened down there and what do you think it's like for them trying to deal with off-field stuff knowing that you guys are doing kind of the same thing in some ways?  
 TYLER MOELLER: I think with the suspensions, you kind of compare it to what we are going through, they are losing some guys and us losing some guys now for what was involved and how they got the suspensions, you know, it's two different things. You can't really compare them.   
 But at the same time, you can look at our suspensions, look at their suspensions, and you know, kind of have a feeling of what they are going through a little bit in that sense, in the suspended sense.   
 You know everything that happened in the preseason I think got us prepared for things that happened in the season, like the three guys that are suspended last week and we just always been saying to each other, next man up. Those three guys couldn't go, so three guys stepped up and they did a great job last week, and that's -- whatever else happens to us, guys are going to come up and step up and do a great job.   
  
  Q. Through two games, how do you think you've played so far, and Luke was just talking about maybe last -- the game plan against Toledo didn't put you in as many positions to make plays; do you feel like maybe this week you'll get a few more opportunities?   
 TYLER MOELLER: Hopefully I'll get a few more opportunities to make a couple turnovers and you guys will start liking me again. (Laughter).  
 But I'm still the same player I was last year, and the year before that, and the year before that, and you know, plays will come my way, and I need to start making the plays that come my way.   
 Last game I missed a few plays. I didn't get very many plays my way and the ones I did, I didn't do a great job on them. You know, my problem I think I'm trying to make the plays, instead of just playing it. And I need to do a good job of just calming down and just playing my game.   
 I'll be fine. Once they start coming my way again, I get a little more comfortable in that position, I'll be fine. You guys will like me again.   
  
  Q. You've been in a lot of road environments before, just what kind of environment are you expecting out of Miami Saturday; and two, you're a veteran, but there are a lot of younger guys on both defense and offense. What do you tell them? Is there any way to prepare guys that are not used to that environment they are going to see?  
 TYLER MOELLER: Personally for me I love those environments. I love going to stadiums and fans just booing and you hating you. I love going in there and disappointing them. For the younger guys, I would just tell them, just to play their game. You know, it's just like last week, more people, and more hype if you want to call it. But it's still a game. Just play your game and you'll be fine.   
  
  Q. What do you remember, obviously you got after Jacory Harris, he through a few picks, quite a number; do you remember rattling him and what's your impression of him as a quarterback?   
 TYLER MOELLER: I think he's a great quarterback. He throws the ball well. I think last year, defensive line did a great job of pressuring him and getting him rattled a little bit I guess you could say. And put a big emphasis on doing it again this year. We talk about affecting the quarterback is one of the biggest things as what we want to do and last year they did a great job. We need to make sure this year we do a great job also.  
  
  Q. I'm interested in whether ESPN had that 30 for 30 on Miami, did you see that?  
 TYLER MOELLER: Yeah, I thought it was pretty cool.  
  
  Q. What were your impressions of that era and what they did during that time?  
 TYLER MOELLER: I think the biggest thing that I took out of that is just a confidence level they had. You know, they went into every game and just, you know, had that swag, I think that's what they called it, just going in there and knowing they are the best. I think, you know, that's the biggest thing that I took off of that 30 for 30 is just the confidence level that those teams had and the players they had. They had some great players on those teams.   
  
  Q. Miami and Ohio State have the classic National Championship game, nine years ago, whatever it was, eight years ago. What do you think the national perception of this game is coming up?   
 TYLER MOELLER: I would have to say people are paying a little more attention to it just because of the adversities that both teams have gone through.   
 I think for us, how I look at people from the outside look at us, people want to kind of see us fail. That's what I kind of take out of it, and you know, I don't know -- I don't really pay attention to the media too much to know what everyone is saying about them or whatnot.   
 But I think that's the national attention that everyone is going to be watching, the adversity and things that both teams have gone through and how are they going to react to those things that happened and what they are going to do about it.   
  
  Q. Did you watch Miami in their game against Maryland and do you think you'll see a different team this week than maybe the team that was out there in week one?   
 TYLER MOELLER: I think -- I think they played pretty well during the game. They had some turnovers that didn't go their way, some plays that didn't go their way. But you know, I expect to see some of the same formations and plays that they ran against us, against Maryland, doing it against us.   
 You know, they ended up losing the game, but you see some things out of their players that happened, like the running back, No. 6, he's a great player. I was actually watching him this morning and just some of the plays that he made and his burst out of the line of scrimmage, it was pretty impressive.   
  
  Q. It's the first night game, first road game and you're a senior and you're named captain, what does that mean to you?  
 TYLER MOELLER: It means a whole lot. To be thought of by the coaches and to have them make me a captain tore this game, you know, this team means everything to me. This program means everything to me. The things I've been through with these guys, it means a whole lot, and this year, with everything that we have been through and everything that I've been through, it means everything to me. So you know, I'm happy to be here. I'm happy to be healthy and be able to play in these games.   
  
  Q. You seemed to have an understanding of how some people on the outside may view this game; people are going to talk about the NCAA violation stuff as much as the on-field stuff. Does it make you mad to be involved, and that's going to be some of the talk around this game, or is it just part of the deal at this point that you guys just have to deal with that?   
 TYLER MOELLER: It's kind of part of the deal. You know, it makes me angry about how people perceive this program. Just the few things have happened, but also know that we didn't make mistakes. We have to hold things at a higher level. Yeah, it makes me angry but you just have to get over it. It happened. All you can do is move up.   
  
  Q. What did you see different under Miami under the all golden regime, did you notice anything different about them, the way they attacked, what they preferred, etc.?   
 TYLER MOELLER: Not too much. I think they are more of a regular Green formation team. They want to run the ball first, pass the ball later. They are a tough team. That's what I see out of them, they are a tough team.   
  
  Q. Presuming most of the allegations have some basis, in fact, in Miami, do you feel what happened here was trivial in comparison?   
 TYLER MOELLER: No, not really. It's two completely different situations and both things are wrong. A rule is a rule, no matter if one is worse than another, you're still breaking the rule.   
   
    
  
   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT