PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2005
Ron Philo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How was your round today?
RON PHILO:  Well, finally parred No. 3.
Q.  What did you hit?
RON PHILO:  I hit it on the fairway, I hit it on the green and I 2 putted.  It was kind of unique.  I struggled through that stretch of 6, 7 and 8 the last couple of days, but I still felt comfortable on the back nine.  I think I shot under par on the back nine the last three days.  That felt good standing on 10 tee even though I bogeyed 10.  I birdied 11.  I felt good coming into 17 and 18, the two par 5s.  I feel like I don't have to worry about what Tiger is doing, I don't have to worry about going at it in two, so I had a wedge into 17 and 18 with a chance to get there.

It's great every time I play.  There are some great players who played this week and it was great to have four of us out here playing on the weekend.  Steve Schneiter is out there at 9 over right now.  He's a very solid player.  Saw him in the locker room, shot a 72.  So I know he was 6 over and I was 7 over.  You know, that really wasn't an objective.  My objective I think when I started today, I really wanted to try to break 288.  This is a 72 for the members, so it would be a par 72 for me if I was a club professional here playing.  Breaking 288 would be like breaking par.  But I got close.  So that was good.
Q.  Can you describe Thursday round versus Saturday and Sunday?
RON PHILO:  I think I burned a lot of adrenaline on Thursday and Friday afternoon in the heat and, you know, I am trying to play really, really hard.  Saturday morning I was bone tired.  I mean, I didn't realize it until maybe walking up the hill on two how tired I was.  I had great pairings, Ted Purdy was great to play with and Mark was great to play with today.
Q.  How do you spend the rest of today now?
RON PHILO:  Take a shower, got to get to the airport, got to fly out to Portland, spend a little time with my family before I head back to Florida.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT