NL DIVISION SERIES: CARDINALS VS BRAVES
October 4, 2019
Dansby Swanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions for Dansby Swanson.
Q. Snitker was just in here saying he wishes he didn't still have to be talking about Ronald. What is your feeling in the clubhouse and with the other players, what are they thinking today?
DANSBY SWANSON: It happened yesterday. I don't think anybody's real concerned about it, especially at this point in the season. There's no point in dwelling on the past.
And we're focused on this moment today. And I think everybody understands the situation that happened, and how the thing's been handled and you move forward. That's the way the best teams do it, the best organizations. And we're no different.
So we'll just go out and play our game today and continue to focus on what's happening right now.
Q. Can you talk a little bit about your first-ever postseason game, how hard the heart was racing and what it took to settle in, maybe go through the emotions between the lines?
DANSBY SWANSON: Not really. I mean, this is the reason why I train the way I do, why we train the way we do, is for these moments to stay slow.
I think that teams that play the best in the postseason, they kind of have a slow heartbeat because they can really channel, like I said, the training we've gone through and the preparation. So going out there is just another game.
And I think that we view each game the same way from spring training to now. We go about it the same way. So there's no situation or things that are presented that we haven't been ready for.
Q. How different is the feeling with this team being down 0-1 in a series, how much we've seen you all battle this season? Is it different with this team than it maybe would be with another team with how much confidence you guys have in yourself and when your backs are against the wall?
DANSBY SWANSON: Yeah, we have a great team. We really do. Just top to bottom -- pitching staff, defense, offense -- we can beat you in a multitude of ways.
So I think that we never feel out of it by any stretch of the imagination. Obviously it would have been nice to win, but here we are. And we're going to handle the situation how we see fit. And we're going to be ready for today to come back out and compete.
Q. How do you look at the challenge facing you guys today, specifically the pitcher?
DANSBY SWANSON: He's been great, the second half. He's been awesome. Once you get into the playoffs, everybody's even. Everybody's equal. Doesn't matter what you've done or will do. It's about today.
So we're going to go out, compete, and lay it all out there.
Q. Having grown up here, you've lived it, but how many guys do you think in that clubhouse are even aware of this club's postseason history, not winning a series since 2001, or the Falcons in the Super Bowl, all that kind of stuff? Do you think there's even any kind of that thought that goes through the players' minds?
DANSBY SWANSON: No, I think that's y'all's job. We worry about playing each day, like I said. And I think that's what makes us so special. That's what we do.
History is history, but today is today. So we're going to go out and do what we do.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT