NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 18, 2016
Timothy Dudley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Our other finalist at 184, Tim Dudley or TJ, which ever you prefer, I know you prefer that and he is 27-6 after his victory tonight and you might make a brief statement.
TIMOTHY DUDLEY: I don't know what to say.  It was a tough match, you know, I got taken down right away in the first 20, 25 seconds and I'm thinking this kid has beaten me a bunch of times before, man, it's going to be tough but come back and get a takedown and win the match to get to the finals, but right before the match my coach made me promise to wrestle 7 hard minutes and that's what I did and I got my points back and then some.
Q. TJ, is that why you struggled because you had not wrestled a full 7 minutes?  The Big Ten, is that what happened to you there?
TIMOTHY DUDLEY: The Big Tens I got taken down right away at the beginning and Brooks is really defensive, and the time I wrested him before that I stuck him pretty early in the match, and they wrestled him against my style.  It was really hard to get points.  But the reason Coach tell me to go 7 minutes was because last year when I wrestled him before I was winning going into the third period and the last two minutes of the match he got two take downs to win, and then I wrestled through round 12.  And the next three matches I lost to put me in 8th place by 1 point at the last minute.
Even today, you can say all through the season my six losses were all in the last minute, and earlier today when I wrestled Brooks in the last minute he threw me and it would have tied the match-up and granted I would have won from riding time.  But I didn't give it back and if I would have not continued to wrestle we possibly could have went into overtime or something.
Q. Talk about the coaching staff in the room at Nebraska.  We've seen a lot of guys excel out there and some of them are chasing Olympic dreams.  How has that place made a difference in your ability to become an NCAA finalist and the best wrestler you can be?
TIMOTHY DUDLEY: Having those guys in the room, Jordan, James, both alumni from Nebraska chasing Olympic dreams those guys elevate the room a lot.  You have a college room with guys that aren't in there, everybody is tired, demotivated, slugging around.  But Jordan doesn't get tired and he'll yell at everybody because to us we're family and so is James.  They're wrestling a lot harder than we are and they push us and push us and we're feeling down and Jordan is a great speaker and he will yell something out and get everybody back up and going.
Me individually, I wrestle Jordan on average throughout the year once or twice a week and it's elevated my conditioning so much to the point going back to earlier that I can wrestle 7 minutes of a match, I can wrestle hard and it gives me the confidence to wrestle these guys because they aren't Olympic champions.  They aren't two-time NCAA finalists and champions.
They haven't done the things Jordan has done and when I can go 7 or 8 minutes with him in the room, I know I can deal with these guys down here.  Our coaches constantly remind us those guys put us through the workouts so we can go on and on and push and break out later and they constantly remind us that we've done that so we don't get here and forget it and all.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you so much.  Congratulations to TJ Dudley.  Good luck tomorrow night.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT