BOSTON COLLEGE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 13, 2007
Jeff Jagodzinski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		   COACH JAGODZINSKI:  That was a big win for us today.  Our kids were excited about playing this football game, and I think they responded.  Charlie's guys, they fought us all the way.  With that I'll take some questions. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 COACH JAGODZINSKI:  One of the things I thought is Matt never gets rattled when thing go wrong for him.  It's one of the things that happen.  The linebacker made a good play and he undercut our crossing route.  But I don't think Matt got rattled at all.  In fact, I know he didn't.  That's the way he is.  He's a hell of a quarterback. 

 Q.  What was your impression of the two Notre Dame quarterbacks? 
 COACH JAGODZINSKI:  I know this, if we were playing with a true freshman quarterback it would be tough sledding.  I know how that is.  It's tough.  The game is a lot faster than what he saw last year, but he's going to be a really good football player.  The second guy that came in there, Sharpley, did a nice job of throwing the ball around, especially on the sideline. 

 Q.  After the interception how important was it for you to get the field position? 
 COACH JAGODZINSKI:  You know, that was really big.  That penalty was really big there.  Did we end up on the other side of the 50-yard line?  I mean, that was big.  That was real big for us. 

 Q.  Speaking of penalties, how stressed are you with yours today? 
 COACH JAGODZINSKI:  I'll tell you, the nature of the stress was No. 77.  He's the one that had them all.  That was big.  That will get addressed.  A lot of them were motion penalties, too.  The crowd noise and everything, and then it got out there he got anxious and jumped a few times. 
 The long one down the sideline was a screen pass going back to the guys down the field.  That was a screen, so not much we could have done about that. 

 Q.  What did you see out of Notre Dame's freshman linebacker, Neal?  Did he give you some trouble there? 
 COACH JAGODZINSKI:  They have some really good young football players, and they're going to get better with time.  The more reps they get the better they're going to get.  They played hard.  They didn't play like a young football team at all. 

 Q.  Did you ever look at it that way?  Did you address it with the team?  How do you feel the team responded to that? 
 COACH JAGODZINSKI:  No, I never did.  In fact, we don't worry about people's records, but we know this:  We're going to practice and play against our own standard, regardless of who we're playing and where we're playing.  No, the trap game, that never came -- our kids were so excited about playing out here and playing a football game, great rivalry with Boston College. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 COACH JAGODZINSKI:  For the third week in a row he's been very, very productive for us.  He just continues to do things that we are asking of him.  He's a really well-rounded back.  He can catch the ball out of the backfield, the screens.  He caught a route there on the touchdown for a slant route, thought we could get matched up with a linebacker, and we did.  We got exactly what we were looking for, ended up getting inside on him and actually got the ball to him. 

 Q.  Just an appreciation for you status, just your sense of what you guys have done to this point? 
 COACH JAGODZINSKI:  You know, here's what I've done.  I've broken the season down into quarters, and we just started the second half of our season, the third quarter.  I think if you stay focused that way and don't look ahead or don't look to the next game rather than just the game we're playing, so this is our first game of our third quarter.  I told our guys we can't get to where we want to go unless we've taken care of business.  I have an appreciation for it, yeah. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT