US OPEN
August 31, 1998
Laura Granville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What was your mood like going into the match? How did you feel? 
 
 LAURA GRANVILLE: I felt pretty good. I think I practiced well the past couple of days
and I got used to the surroundings so I was feeling pretty comfortable going into the
match. 
 
Q. You said you never hear the crowds. Was this any different? Did you hear --
 
 LAURA GRANVILLE: I think I did. I think it was a big help. There was -- there was some
people that were cheering for me. I think it helped me a lot, especially towards the end
of the of the match when things got tight. 
 
Q. Were you kind of hard on yourself as far as nerves with the first serves?
 
 LAURA GRANVILLE: Yeah. I think especially in the first set I just was not getting my
first serve in and I think, yeah, it was partly nerves and it was just partly, yeah,
basically nerves, I think. 
 
Q. What did you see as her weakness?
 
 LAURA GRANVILLE: I thought moving out wide to her for hand probably was one of them.
Basically when you moved her around and off the court, she either made mistake or hit a
short ball most of the time. 
 
Q. What are your plans now for the rest of the year?
 
 LAURA GRANVILLE: I think I will play some ITF tournaments and also I will try and play
some pro satellites too, I think. 
 
Q. You do still compete for your high school?
 
 LAURA GRANVILLE: I think some we will see if they let me. 
 
Q. What is the name of the high school?
 
 LAURA GRANVILLE: The Latin School of Chicago. 
 
Q. What are the reasons Yale is your first choice?
 
 LAURA GRANVILLE: Actually it is not my first technically, but I am looking at about
four schools and I am not quite sure -- I am going to visit them and see which one I like
the best. 
 
Q. Now that you have won your first match, does this change your goals or your
expectations of the tournament?
 
 LAURA GRANVILLE: Yeah, well, I mean, obviously I would love to win my second round
match, but I think I am just going to try and enjoy the moment right now and not think
about it until tomorrow. 
 
Q. Which of your shots did you feel moist comfortable with?
 
 LAURA GRANVILLE: Probably my backhand, but she didn't hit to it that much, so I had to
go all for hands, but -- 
 
Q. Were you nervous going into the match?
 
 LAURA GRANVILLE: Yeah. I think a little bit. I mean, it is the first round of the US
Open. It is pretty much the first pro tournament I have ever played, so I was a little bit
nervous, but I think I was actually kind of happy that I wasn't -- I was able to move and
get myself out of it, I think after the first few games. 
 
Q. How difficult was it?
 
 LAURA GRANVILLE: You mean dealing with the nerves? 
 
Q. Yes.
 
 LAURA GRANVILLE: I think you get used to it. Before every match you are nervous and I
think that I was used to it and I was able to work out of it. 
 
Q. Does this compare at all with the finals of the U.S. girls?
 
 LAURA GRANVILLE: I think so. I think this is probably just a bigger scale. I mean,
winning the Nationals was just a great match, but I think winning a round at the US Open
is probably a little bit more exciting. 
 
Q. What about nerves, though, as a comparison?
 
 LAURA GRANVILLE: I think it was probably about the same because the finals of the
Nationals is pretty huge event too. 
 
Q. Are you at all surprised at how successful you have been this summer?
 
 LAURA GRANVILLE: I think a little bit. I wasn't playing particularly well going into
the summer when I played the grass court tournaments, grass court tournament and then
Wimbledon, so I think it was kind of hard for me. I needed to get my confidence up and I
think playing the clay courts and playing some matches and winning some really helped my
confidence a lot going into the end of the summer. 
 
Q. Going into the clay courts, though, you hadn't had a great spring summer and then
you did fairly well there but you didn't win it and going into the Nationals, then you
just got by everybody, so how did you set that up? Was it more practice or --
 
 LAURA GRANVILLE: Well, I think over the years I have gotten third at a lot of Nationals
and it was definitely my goal to get to the finals and win it. I think I was just really
determined for Nationals and I really wanted to win it. I think that was basically it. 
 
Q. You have been in Key Biscayne going to school?
 
 LAURA GRANVILLE: Yes. 
 
Q. Are you going back to Chicago now?
 
 LAURA GRANVILLE: Yeah, this past year I was in Key Biscayne and I was playing at the
USTA training center and this year for my senior year I am going to finish in Chicago,
though. 
 
Q. Has school started already?
 
 LAURA GRANVILLE: Yeah. It started last Wednesday, so I have already missed three days
of school. 
 
Q. What would you be doing right now if you were in school, what class would you be in,
do you know?
 
 LAURA GRANVILLE: I probably would be in AP European history. 
 
Q. Have you thought of colleges yet?
 
 LAURA GRANVILLE: Yeah, I am looking at about four schools. I am going to take my visits
this next week so I am going to spend a weekend there and see what it is like and then I
will probably make my decision. 
 
Q. You are going to go at least a year?
 
 LAURA GRANVILLE: I think so. 
 
Q. Which schools?
 
 LAURA GRANVILLE: I am looking at Stanford, Duke, Yale and Princeton. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT