ROGERS CUP
August 17, 2005
Laura Granville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  You seemed to have a lot of momentum after the second set.  What happened in the third?  Was it fatigue? 
 
LAURA GRANVILLE:  No, I think she gave me some free points at the end of the second.  I think she picked up her game again in the third set.  I had chances and I should have -- there were some close games there at 1-All in the third.  I had a lot of opportunities.  But, you know, she didn't give me any mistakes.  She raised her level again.  
 
Q.  It seemed like a championship-type match.  Long rallies, long games.  Can you speak about the mindset you had, considering it was a second-round match?
 
LAURA GRANVILLE:  Yeah, well, I think I was a little bit intimidated going into it just because I don't play on stadium courts all that often.  Myskina, she's definitely used to that.  She's used to playing on center courts.  I think I got some confidence in the second set.  I thought that I could play with her.  I think at that point I just started going for it.  I think there were a lot of games that could have gone either way.  I just lost some of the key ones, especially in the third set.  
 
Q.  You mentioned you're new to center court matches.  How do you prepare playing against a player of a her caliber?
 
LAURA GRANVILLE:  I think that sometimes it's hard to, but I think you just have to look at it as an opportunity.  There's no pressure on me.  I think it's just something that you have to look at it just like a big opportunity, I think.  There's really no way to get ready for it because, you know, obviously you can't play more matches on center courts.  
 
Q.  You seemed at times to be getting angry at yourself because of the missed opportunities.  What did you feel of your game today?  Seemed like you did play a pretty good match. 
 
LAURA GRANVILLE:  Yeah, I think -- well, Myskina, she's definitely the fastest player I've ever played against.  I think I was just upset with myself for not coming in and putting more balls away.  She's just so quick that she makes it very difficult and she makes every point -- you have to really work for every point you win against her.  I think she took it away from me.  She played really well.  
 
Q.  Did you think you got her on her best day?
 
LAURA GRANVILLE:  I don't know about that.  She definitely had periods where she was making mistakes.  I think when she was focused, she had a good game plan.  She just was hitting it deep.  She feels like she probably can run all day.  She was just kind of making me go for maybe more than I wanted to.  
 
Q.  It looked like you were doing a lot more backhand slicing near the end of the match.  Is that a case of you getting tired trying to out-slug her?
 
LAURA GRANVILLE:  Yeah, I think I was having trouble getting a ball past her.  I was just trying to do something maybe to make her miss, mix it up a little bit.  The slicing didn't affect her, didn't work that well.  She was definitely tough to play against.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT