UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 17, 2007
Trevor Laws
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q.  Great feeling? 
 TREVOR LAWS:  Definitely great. 

 Q.  What was that whole scene after the game like? 
 TREVOR LAWS:  It was awesome.  It was great, I had my family up there, my teammates.  It was just pure enjoyment.  It was a great feeling. 

 Q.  Nice to get the win? 
 TREVOR LAWS:  Yeah, it was so great -- so many different guys in there playing, it was awesome.  It was definitely great. 

 Q.  What was the difference today? 
 TREVOR LAWS:  What was the difference?  Playing good, knowing that, you know, we have one more chance out on the Notre Dame field and going out, making plays with my friends, getting a W at home, finally, this season. 
 So many things were awesome, so many things were great.  Just a combination of all those things I guess. 

 Q.  What was it like seeing your family up there? 
 TREVOR LAWS:  It was great, my mom and my brother, his wife, my dad, they are all there and smiling and loving it and got a big 'ole group hug up there with them.  They were happy and proud of me, so it was a great feeling. 

 Q.  Even better getting the win at home? 
 TREVOR LAWS:  It feels good, relief to get a win at home.  Played pretty good football out there.  So I guess you know it makes it feel a little bit better feeling. 

 Q.  How important was that this week -- 
 TREVOR LAWS:  Yeah, it was just a good feeling.  I just really wanted to go out with a win.  Our whole team was focused on one thing that was the most important was the win and we got it.  It all came through for us. 

 Q.  Zibby got to play some snaps at quarterback; were you going to play a little running back? 
 TREVOR LAWS:  Thought I was going to be a little option-back back there.  Coach Weis, I think he lied to me -- would have played some fullback, you never know. 

 Q.  Talk about four hours in the rain, the student body still cheering you guys on. 
 TREVOR LAWS:  That's what it was all about.  We were 1-9 and they were there with us the whole time.  They stayed out in the freezing rain the whole game to be part of us.  All the senior students, the whole student body, that's part of our program, too.  It's great and I don't think anywhere else, any other school in the nation has that kind of support.  It's just a great feeling. 

 Q.  Can you talk about Hughes today, freshman -- 
TREVOR LAWS:  Yeah I didn't get a chance to watch that much offense, but seemed like we were moving the ball and Robert Hughes had a great game, scoring touchdowns.  So, yeah, definitely it's good to play well end of the season and carry over to next year. 

 Q.  How would you like this senior class to be remembered? 
 TREVOR LAWS:  Just fighters.  We never gave up.  This year might not have gone the way we wanted to go, but every practice we went hard, every game we played our butt off.  All of these guys we gave it our all every single game. 

 Q.  What was it like -- 
 TREVOR LAWS:  It was amazing in there.  People were going crazy.  I brought some champagne to pop it but I forgot it.  People were going crazy.  It was a once-in-a-lifetime experience.  It can't be topped.  It can't be topped right now.  Compared to some of the other games this year, over here talking to you guys, it's a whole different 180 of emotions.  I'm on top of the world right now, I'm feeling great. 

 Q.  
TREVOR LAWS:  Oh, yeah, limbo (ph) leap at Notre Dame, it was a good feeling, all of the people loving on me, me loving on them; it was a good thing. 

 Q.  To get a win next week at Stanford -- 
TREVOR LAWS:  It definitely will be the great to get a win, end of the season. 
 I'm not even thinking about anything that happens the rest of the year.  I feel great right now, knowing we got the win, my boys are smiling and happy and can't way to see them after this, so it's a good thing. 

 Q.  A catapult to go into Stanford and another good feeling next week? 
 TREVOR LAWS:  That's what I'm hoping man, next week is my last game of my college career.  We'd better win, that's all I can say.  It's my last game, a lot of people's last game so it will be a big win for us hopefully. 

 Q.  The freshmen today on offense -- 
 TREVOR LAWS:  Just playing hard, people flying around.  It was tough out there.  The field was so terrible the whole game.  It was tough to plant and get around.  But most people found their footing when they needed to and we made the plays we needed to to win. 

 Q.  Jimmy's play today -- 
TREVOR LAWS:  Oh, yeah, for sure it's always nice, the best defense -- you watch him moving the ball down the field and you're sitting there relaxing on the bench, it's a good thing. 

 Q.  How does it feel -- 
 TREVOR LAWS:  I feel like I'm going out on top, even though the season didn't go the way I wanted it to, I just feel good.  Our goal was to win; we won, and everybody in the locker room is fired up. 

 Q.  Was there a different feeling before the game? 
 TREVOR LAWS:  Oh, yeah, it's the last time I'm doing it ever, so ran out of the tunnel as fast as I could, it was a great feeling.  We play hard every game, but when you know it's your last game ever playing at Notre Dame Stadium, you're going to give it a little extra. 

 Q.  I like this Trevor Laws, standing up in a suit. 
 TREVOR LAWS:  I feel good right now.  It's a lot different being hunched over in those chairs and feeling terrible.  So it's a good feeling. 

 Q.  I've got to think that there was no way this team was going to let Trevor Laws have that look again. 
 TREVOR LAWS:  No one want to see that.  I mean, the whole team wilted, but the seniors we fought out there and we beat a good team. 

 Q.  Just caring on this feeling today -- 
 TREVOR LAWS:  In the locker room, we were so excited.  Everybody is celebrating making plans for the night.  It's a great thing. 

 Q.  And what's your plans for tonight? 
 TREVOR LAWS:  Having a good time.  That's all that matters is having a good time with my teammates. 

 Q.  How did this team hang in there the last two months? 
 TREVOR LAWS:  It's one of the most miraculous things, people didn't give up.  Some teams night not practice hard, not really care about what happens in the game but every game after the loss, we started working, and finally we have another win under our belt. 

 Q.  Coach Weis says it bodes well for next year. 
 TREVOR LAWS:  Oh, definitely, definitely, knowing the guys are playing like that at end of the season, when they grow up a little bit, come into their bodies and their positions, with that work ethic, it's going to be great. 

 Q.  You guys had a lot of big moments in your careers, but last game in the stadium, does this rank up there with one of your best moments? 
 TREVOR LAWS:  Have to be No. 1.  There's some pretty crazy things that happened out there.  But running around that stadium, seeing my family and all of the students -- 

 Q.  If you just took a snapshot what would be? 
 TREVOR LAWS:  Standing there, seeing my teammates, them applauding us, us applauding them, that's going to be burned in my memory to the day I die. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT