AT&T NATIONAL
June 30, 2013
D.H. Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  D.H. LEE:   I mean, I started out 1st hole was kind of‑‑ it was a bad situation, but being able to overcome that hole was a plus.   Yeah, with a par.   And then birdieing the difficult par 3 at No.2.   
From that point on, I just really didn't think about much.   I knew I was far back from the leader.   So I just kept in my mind and played hole by hole.   
Of course, on the back nine I had two bogeys, but that birdie on No.12 really was a turning point.   I just focused on what I had to do today, not just‑‑ just tried to empty my mind and just play my game.  
   
 Q.   8 under par.   The putting was spectacular today.   Was this the best you've putted so far this year?   I understood that.     
D.H. LEE:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Okay.   You're 8 under.   Right now the lead is 10, but this a tough golf course.   What are you going to do here the next couple of hours?   
D.H. LEE:   I'm hungry right now.   So I'm going to go eat first.  
   
 Q.   Well, congratulations.   Great round.   You never know what's going to happen.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the round today.   
D.H. LEE:   The key point today was being able to make those consecutive birdies starting from No.4, and then I had a couple of bogeys on 10 and 11.   But getting that birdie on No.12 turned things around.   I think that was a key point.  
   
 Q.   The question is talk about the front nine and getting off to a fast start.   
D.H. LEE:   Yeah.   I went on a streak on the front nine, but when I got to the back nine, I said, this is a new start, a new beginning because, in all the big tournaments, when you're positioned to win, the tournament really starts on the back nine.   
So just having that mindset and not really worrying about anything else, I think that was what I was feeling.  
   
 Q.   Can you tell us about 16 when you drove into the rough and you were able to save par.   How important was that to be able to keep the round together?   
D.H. LEE:   I think the two par saves I had on No.16 and 17 was probably the most‑‑ the two most important putts I've made at this tournament.   Because I was able to save par, I think that set up the environment for me to‑‑ the atmosphere for me to birdie the last hole.  
   
 Q.   Did you come in today thinking you had to put up a really low number to have a chance to win?   
D.H. LEE:   Yeah.   If I had‑‑ for me to win, I knew that it would have taken a very low score for me to do that, but to be able to play that on the front nine the way I did and the way that I finished it off, I think that was‑‑ that set the tone.  
   
 Q.   Now you have to wait it out.   What's going through your mind right now?   
D.H. LEE:   I'm not really thinking about anything right now.   I just feel very hot, and I just want to get inside and cool down a bit.  
   
 Q.   Yesterday at the 12, the fans yelled something that you weren't happy with.   Can you give us a little insight with what happened there?   
D.H. LEE:   The media said that someone heckled me, but that was not the case at all.   No one heckled me.   It was just out of frustration.   What I did was I‑‑ it was a time I aimed at the ball, not anyone in the crowd, and I regret what I did regardless of the reason.   It's something that I shouldn't have done.   
Everybody makes mistakes, and I made this mistake, and I'm just going to learn from this.  
   
 Q.   The course played tough for many of the players today.   How did it play for you?   Like what did you do differently than the other players to have such a great final round?   
D.H. LEE:   The key point was that my iron play was really good.   Because of that, I was able to get opportunities to make those putts.  
   
 Q.   That huge birdie on 18.   Are you kind of relieved that you had that 7 under final round today?   What's going through your mind right now?   
D.H. LEE:   Yeah, honestly, the last hole is truly luck.   In my drive, hit a tree and came back to the fairway.   I was just thankful that it did, and I was feeling comfortable.   
My irons were feeling good.   I hit a 6 iron.   And when I got to the green, or when I saw‑‑ when I read the lie, I could see how it wasn't a break.   From that point on, it just went in.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT