AT&T NATIONAL
June 28, 2013
D.H. Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   It was a tough morning, and yet you were able to get it done.   How did that go?   
D.H. LEE:   To be playing this well on a course that all the players say is a tough course, I'm just very happy, and honestly, I'm kind of feeling under the weather right now.   So to be playing like this, I couldn't ask for more.  
   
 Q.   You really drove the ball well out there all the way around.   Is that one of the strengths of your game?   
D.H. LEE:   Definitely.   I mean, on this course, it's such a long course, and if you're‑‑ and the roughs are so long, if you're not on the fairway, you're going to have a hard time getting on the green.   So it definitely helped my rhythm and contributed to the score, those good drives.  
   
 Q.   How big of an asset is it having a veteran caddie on the bag like that young man you've got carrying your sack?   
D.H. LEE:   It's definitely helped me a lot.   For me, I'm very fortunate to have someone like him on the bag with me because of his help.   Actually, he's helped me sort of change my attitude towards playing the tournaments here because he's worked with a lot of the top players in the world.   
The stories that he tells me, they're good stories that help me with my game.   He gives me advice.   So it's a good team.   
   
 Q.   Keep up the good work.  
   
 Q.   Great play.   
D.H. LEE:   Thank you very much.  
   
 Q.   What's the caddie's name?   
D.H. LEE:   Gary Matthews.  
   
 Q.   Gary Matthews is his caddie.   Also, just a couple more followups.   Won Q School back in December.   Can you kind of ask him about his thoughts on the season so far, if he expected maybe to do a little better at this point or where he's at mindset‑wise.   
D.H. LEE:   Yeah, when I won the Q School and then starting out the year, obviously, I had big expectations, but to be honest with you, I really didn't know what to expect because it was‑‑ because it's my first time being out on the Tour.   
But as time went by, I started learning.   I started adjusting my short game, my putting.   It's gotten better.   
Obviously, my goal is to retain my card, and I think‑‑ I'll say that I'm happy, and I want to think positive.   I'm fairly confident that I'll be able to gain my card back again for next year.  
   
 Q.   One more.   Anything, his thoughts on maybe what surprised him this year the most about playing on the Tour, any neat stories that's helped him learn, maybe from his fellow Korean players?   
D.H. LEE:   Yeah, the one thing that really took me by surprise was‑‑ and actually helped me for the better was missing the Saturday cut at Hilton Head Island.   I was playing so well.   I was in the groove.   I was feeling the rhythm and not made the Saturday cut was a big blow to me.   
It actually turned out to be a good experience because I knew‑‑ I gained the confidence.   I knew that I was doing the right thing, but it just was unfortunate that I missed the cut.   
I think that was a turning point, and from that point on, I started gaining a lot more confidence.   And just be out here with my Korean friends, obviously, that makes me comfortable.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT