U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2018
Joe Highsmith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well, Joe, after the 1st hole you kind of had your own way.
JOE HIGHSMITH: Yep.  Lost the first one.  I just didn't hit the putt hard enough, but I still had a comfortable lead because I knew I was swinging well.
Then I think the birdied the next, and then I missed a couple kind of short birdies on the next few holes.  Then think I made a couple more birdies in there.
From there...
Q. 5 was kind of conceded?  It was an eagle.
JOE HIGHSMITH: 5?  Yeah, so Garrett hit two out and I was just in the fairway, so that was conceded.
Q. Okay.
JOE HIGHSMITH: Yeah.
Q. And 6 you birdied?
JOE HIGHSMITH: Yeah, I birdied 6 and made a pretty good par on 7.
Garrett birdied 8 to get it back to two, I think.
Q. How did you par the 7th hole?
JOE HIGHSMITH: I was just left of the bunker and my ball was up against a rake, so I was on a downhill lie and I had to mark it and the ball moved (indiscernible) spin it back.
Then I had a pretty solid up and down, and I think I made a good par on 9 and then I birdied 10.  Pretty much from there I felt comfortable.  Obviously anything can happen in match play, but I still felt like I was playing well enough to get it done.
Q. How did you birdie the 10th hole?
JOE HIGHSMITH: Really good pitching wedge.  Pretty much the same shot I had yesterday on 14.  Yeah, eagled 14 yesterday.  Yeah, basically the same shot.
I just like hit it pretty similar and ended up (indiscernible) back to probably eight feet and made a good putt.
Q. What kind of wedge?
JOE HIGHSMITH: 46-degree pitching wedge.
Q. And yardage?
JOE HIGHSMITH: About 122, I think.  Yeah, so it was a pretty perfect number for me.  I could just take a little off and hit a low spinner.
Q. You talked about feeling comfortable.  Does that also mean your confidence is way high right now?
JOE HIGHSMITH: Oh, definitely.  Like in stroke play I didn't feel great.  I was kind of on the border.  I was 5-over through 19 holes.  I tripled my 1st hole.
After that I hit a few good iron shots and started to feel my swing more.  Pretty much since then I've made a ton of birdies and only a few bogeys from stupid mistakes.  My confidence way up, yeah.  I'm swinging well.
Q. Are you rising as the championship going on?
JOE HIGHSMITH: I definitely feel like I am.  Like each day has gotten better.  I played pretty well yesterday, but today, like I think I made four or five birdies and could have had a lot more.
So I like to see like I'm getting better every day, yeah.
Q. Where you are right now, is it comparable to where you were when you won your state amateur?
JOE HIGHSMITH: I think my game is way better.  I think I scored well then, but like as a whole, I would consider myself a much better player now for sure, yeah.
Especially even compared to last year.  I played Garrett and then Noah Goodwin last year.  I played fine, but it was still one of those things where day-to-day it was a lot different, where this week I feel like I've swung well pretty much the whole week, so...






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT