U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2018
Joe Highsmith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








(Recording in progress.)
JOE HIGHSMITH: I mean, it feels great.  My game feels pretty good right now, so I think I'm definitely going to have to score better tomorrow if I want to keep winning matches.
Everything feels good, so hopefully I can keep my rhythm going.  I feel like I've gotten better every match so far; hopefully I can keep it up.
Q. Took an early lead on the 1st hole.  Kept it the whole way.
JOE HIGHSMITH: Yeah, I think that Ricky's hand was injured so it was hard for him to swing all day.  I feel like I played just solid enough to get it done.
I think we both bogeyed the 1st hole, but then I think after that I don't think I made a bogey for a while.
I felt solid about it, yeah.
Q. Can you tell me about the birdie on 8?
JOE HIGHSMITH: Yeah, one second.  Let me think.
Q. Par-5.
JOE HIGHSMITH: Oh, yeah, the par-5.  I actually hit a good drive and a good second shot to probably 40 feet.  It was, like every single green out here, pretty tough, so it was a hard putt.  I just hit it about three feet by and made it.
Then I'm not sure if I had another birdie after that.  I honestly don't know.
Q. 14, par-4.
JOE HIGHSMITH: Oh, yeah.  Yeah, the drivable one.  So, yeah, Ricky hit a drive and think he was pin-high right.  We laid up earlier, but this time I was feeling really good about my driver all day, so I thought I would hit it.
And then I drove the green two-putted for birdie, nice to get birdie there.
Q. And on both of those, what club are you using on your second shot?
JOE HIGHSMITH: Well, on 14 I was putting for eagle.  And then 8, the par-5 I hit into it with a 5-iron.  Yeah, most of my clubs feel pretty good right now.  Most the time I'll either hit my irons are my driver good, but right now both are kind of working.
So, yeah.
Q. Do you have a lot of match play experience to draw on?
JOE HIGHSMITH: Yes.  This is my fourth year making match play at this tournament.  I've never made it past 32.  But I definitely took that experience from like last year I lost to Noah and a couple years ago to Andy Zhang, so I've had some good experience for sure?
Q. What's your mindset going into tomorrow's match?
JOE HIGHSMITH: I think if I can just keep doing what I'm doing I'll be all right.  If I get beat then that's just how it goes.  I think I am just going to try to play my best and try to keep it up.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT