TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 6, 2018
Jah’Shawn Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Have you let it creep into your mind a little bit yet what it's going to be like on senior night for you?  
JAH’SHAWN JOHNSON: Yeah, I actually just had a conversation with Keenan Evans and just kind of joking with me just a minute ago if I was going to cry or not and when was I going to try if I did.  But yeah, it's going to be tough but going to be exciting.   
 Q.  What's this journey been like for you?  The ups and downs, you've had the big wins, the defense has gotten that much better during your time here.  
JAH’SHAWN JOHNSON: It's been amazing, man.  I knew it was going to be tough when I came in but that was a challenge I wanted on myself.  I wanted to be part of a turnaround and so that's why I came.  I mean, we're moving in the right direction.  It has been amazing and I'll cherish these last three or four and make the most of them.   
 Q.  Who should we keep our cameras on?  Who is for sure going to cry as a senior class?  
JAH’SHAWN JOHNSON: Honestly, I'd say myself.  I think I'm probably the softest out of all of them.  I don't know.  I guess me, maybe Dakota.  He might have a little soft side, even though he plays pretty physical.   
 Q.  Is it something you've thought about the past couple weeks as you get closer and closer or are you able to block it out of your mind?  
JAH’SHAWN JOHNSON: I haven't, till yesterday, or Sunday, when Coach Kingsbury got up there and talked to us and we stood up in front of the team or whatever.  That's when it sunk in.   
 Q.  Is there a team you'd rather have it be against than Texas?  
JAH’SHAWN JOHNSON: Not at all.  This will be a pretty good one.   
 Q.  What about that Texas offense has really stood out to you?  
JAH’SHAWN JOHNSON: Very skilled.  Quarterback's just like another running back, or has a pretty strong arm.  Of course, the No. 9, he can go up and get the ball at the highest point.  He does a great job of creating separation and they have speed guys that can run by us.  We have to make sure we keep the ball in front of us.   
 Q.  Do you think coming off playing against one of the high-powered offenses like Oklahoma, does that help you as a defense, playing an offense that does; helps you guys sharpen when you need to work on?  
JAH’SHAWN JOHNSON: Yeah, but every offense is high-powered in this conference.  I mean, they just do it the best, I guess you'd say.  But yeah, it helped.  We got in the film room and we've corrected some things.  We'll correct some more tomorrow in practice and Thursday.  Then we'll just get ready to go ahead on Saturday.   
 Q.  Playing Texas in general, your senior night game, why is that such a special game for you?  
JAH’SHAWN JOHNSON: It's such a huge rivalry.  That was my favorite team growing up.  Unfortunately I didn't get offered by them, so I mean, it's always been personal.   
Like I said, it's a huge rival for this school, and it will be pretty exciting.   
 Q.  What does it mean for the fan base in general?  Any time you play Texas, you get the win over Texas, what does it mean for this fan base?  
JAH’SHAWN JOHNSON: It means everything.  This is one game that they won't forget no matter how the season goes.  They will remember this game regardless.  It means a lot to them, as well.   
 Q.  You've been through it for years.  Had some tough times, back when you were younger.  From your perspective, where has this defense improved the most?  
JAH’SHAWN JOHNSON: I think the unselfishness is what we've improved the most.  Guys just out there playing for each other.  Excited for each other.  Happy when other people make plays, not down and trying to be all, you know, separated from each other or whatever.   
Yeah, like I said, everyone is excited for each other to make plays and that just goes a long way with guys on the team.   
 Q.  How has that developed?  
JAH’SHAWN JOHNSON: Really, it started with the string staff, the way they have held us accountable for everything we have had to do.  They have done a tremendous job with that.  And the coaches, everyone bought into the coaching.  Kind of got tired of Coach Whitt having to punish us in the summer and things.   
Yeah, like I said, we just became more accountable and it went from there.   
 Q.  You mentioned when you came here, you accepted that challenge of turning this defense around.  As you sit here on your senior year, where do you see that turnaround at?  How far can it go?  How far has it come?  
JAH’SHAWN JOHNSON: Like I was saying, guys aren't selfish anymore.  Everyone's bought in.  Still has a long way to go but like I said, we're in the right steps.  Got a lot of young guys that will be making a lot of plays in the near future.  We've got some more coming in, I'm assuming, and Coach Gibbs will did a great job with those guys and it will be one of the top defenses in the country here soon.   
 Q.  It's hard to win on the road in the Big 12, something we always hear but you look at this series the last four years and it's been the road team that has won all four of those games.  You've been part of two of those wins in Texas.  What about that makes this different?  
JAH’SHAWN JOHNSON: I don't know, but like I said earlier in the year, we've got to find a way to win at home and we haven't done that.  I haven't beat them at home, like you said.  The road team has won the last four.   
This will be a real big one for us.  Be real special.  Senior night, of course.  And we owe it to the fans to end this home season the right way because they have supported us no matter what, being with us through thick and thin.  We owe them one for this one.   
 Q.  What does being part of that defense mean to you?  
JAH’SHAWN JOHNSON: It means a lot.  I mean, I wanted to come in here and try to be the best at my position.  A lot of guys respect me for what I've done; I respect them.  It's just been one hell of a ride, and like I said, I'll enjoy these last few.   
 Q.  Did you catch Coach Whitt's tackle and what's your grade?  What did he do right and what can he improve on?  
JAH’SHAWN JOHNSON: I did, actually.  I think he could have ran through them a bit more.  He didn't want to do too much, but it was nice (smiling).   
 Q.  We were talking to John Bonney earlier and he's in the unusual circumstance of Senior Day for him is against the school that he played for for so long.  What was it like, particularly in your position, since he plays your position, and actually filled in while you were hurt, kind of how has he accepted?  
JAH’SHAWN JOHNSON: I mean, he's done a great job of doing what he does.  He's quiet, but he tells everyone when they are wrong and he can straighten the group up when we're off-topic or doing things we're not supposed to be.  He does a great job of that.  We had great preparation last week.  He hasn't gotten down on himself because I came back and was in the starting role.  He's just kept preparing well because he knows he's one play away, and we appreciate him for everything he's done, and I know this will be pretty special for him, as well.   
 Q.  Can you imagine what it would be like if you were to go to another place and then play against Texas Tech?  What do you think those emotions are like for him?  
JAH’SHAWN JOHNSON: It's probably all over the place.  It's a school he played for, for, what, three years, four maybe.  Yeah, I mean, he's built a lot of relationships with those guys on that team.   
Unfortunately the things didn't go well and he had so leave.  He's excited to be here.  I know he'll be excited for that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT