THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2021
Patton Kizzire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. How would you assess your round today?
 PATTON KIZZIRE:   It was good.  It was a little disappointing.  I hit a lot of really good shots into the greens, had some close birdie putts that I didn't capitalize on, but it was nice to get a birdie there on 17 and finish at a number that felt reasonable for me today.  I really felt like I could have gone low.
 Q. You kind of feel good about where you are but you figure you could be a couple shots better do you think?
 PATTON KIZZIRE:   Definitely.  I hit it to about four feet on 8 and missed it and then had a lot of opportunities.
 11, I missed an easy up-and-down.
 12, I hit it to about four feet and missed it.
 13, I hit it to eight feet and missed it.
 15, I hit it to seven, eight feet and missed it.
 Then, 15, I missed a 12-footer for par.
 Then on 16, I seem to live in those trees over there.  These dogleg left par-5s have given me a little bit of trouble.  I tend to hook it into the trees, which is not where you want to be.  We'll do a little work on that and try to play from the fairway this weekend.
 Q. Do you feel like your game in 2020 has kind of been trending in the direction where you want it to go?
 PATTON KIZZIRE:   It really has.  I try not to think about it, but I guess this is my 12th cut made in a row, which is pretty good.  I've been playing consistently, which is nice.  I feel like at some point it's all going to come together and I'll be in contention, and we'll see if I can get it done.
 Q. Do you feel like you're getting back to the Patton from a couple years ago?
 PATTON KIZZIRE:   Yeah, I'm getting a little swagger back and seeing some good results and sticking to my process.  I have a great team of Justin Parsons and Randy Myers.  I've been working tirelessly with them.  We're just trying to get better every day.
 Q. What specifically have you been working on with Justin?  We talked about this in Hawai'i, but it seems with you and with Harris, the resurgence in you guys' games can be attributed to Justin.
 PATTON KIZZIRE:   Yeah, he's a great coach.  I have to get to a better position in the top of my swing in order to hit it.  I tend to get long and over-rotate it, which makes it tough from there.  I have to back out of it and throw it at it.
 The golf swing is hard for me.  I love golf.  I love competing and playing golf, so the golf swing part of it's tough, but if I stay at it, things will get better.
 Q. Do you mean kind of just working at it?  Is that what you're talking about?
 PATTON KIZZIRE:   Yeah, I don't like thinking about a golf swing.  I like seeing a golf shot and making it happen and competing.  Trying to stay patient and be resilient and have a bulldog attitude and get the ball in the hole.  That's what I live for.
 Q. Do you feel like you're getting back to that now that your swing is more in sync?
 PATTON KIZZIRE:   Well, when you hit good shots more times than not it gets easier to focus on the game instead of your swing.  If you hit a bad shot and you start thinking about your swing, it becomes contagious.  I think you see that with some players that struggle.  They're thinking about their swing and a bad shot comes off, then they start thinking about their swing again.  So I'm trying to stay focused on what I'm doing and not go down that road and play golf.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT