SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 14, 2018
Patton Kizzire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The only two-time winner on the PGA TOUR this season is Patton Kizzire.  You had to play a lot of golf today.  How would you describe the six playoff holes?  
PATTON KIZZIRE: It wasn't necessarily pretty, but it was nice to come out on top.  James had a great round today.  It was kind of a marathon playoff.  I was hoping I could make an eagle on the first hole, but I'll take it any way I can get it.   
 Q.  We talked yesterday about the fact that you won already this season in the fall, and you were hoping to feel more comfortable in pressure filled situations.  Were you more relaxed when everything was on the line?  
PATTON KIZZIRE: I still get pretty fired up.  There were some nerves there, but I learned to cope with them.  That's what experience gives me is just the ability to cope with the excitement and all that.  So it was fun.   
 Q.  Winning your first is obviously a special time, but winning the second on the PGA TOUR really kind of binds you an an up and coming PGA TOUR pro.  What did this do for your confidence moving forward?  
PATTON KIZZIRE: This is huge for me.  One win doesn't necessarily mean a whole lot, two means a little more, and three is even better.  I'm always looking for the next one.  I'm super excited right now.   
 Q.  You got once again in the FedExCup standings.  All but a lock for the TOUR Championship.  
PATTON KIZZIRE: Thanks a lot.   
 Q.  Patton, that was a weird day.  It was just one of those days.  Here it took six playoff holes to get it done, but you got it done.  
PATTON KIZZIRE: That was extremely weird.  It wasn't real pretty.  I was able to get it done.  Everybody was stuck in neutral today except for a few guys that went out earlier.  James had a great round and shot a 62 and forced a playoff.  Coming out on top is what I came here to do, and I did it.  So I'm ecstatic.   
 Q.  You missed some fairways on the front nine.  You par your way around that.  You're sitting there at the turn, saying what the heck is going on.  Then you get the hole-out on 10.  That gave you motivation like, you know what, someone's going to win this game.  Why can't it be me?  
PATTON KIZZIRE: I had to stay patient until I got hot.  I had a nice little stretch on 10 and 11 with an eagle and a birdie.  That was the story of the day.  I hung in there and was able to have those two good holes.  It was a wild day.   
 Q.  A couple of good playoff holes in here in the back and forth.  Did you think you would make it back to this green with an opportunity to win this golf tournament?  
PATTON KIZZIRE: Shoot.  After everything that happened today, there's nothing that's going to surprise me.  I hate that it ended that way.  I was hoping someone could make a birdie to win or eagle, but this is big for me.   
 Q.  First to win twice this season.  Back on top of the FedExCup standings.  Icing on the cake in what is still a young season for you already.  
PATTON KIZZIRE: This is big.  Chasing that FedExCup and the TOUR Championship has been a goal of mine.  There's a lot of focus on that with all the guys.  It's nice to be on top.  You want to be on top for the end of the year is the goal.   
 Q.  A win's a win no matter what.  Congratulations.  
PATTON KIZZIRE: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT