SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 5, 2017
Patton Kizzire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Patton, excellent round, 64.  If we could get some comments on your day?
PATTON KIZZIRE: It was a good day.  I started the week off playing really well, and then it progressively got a little worse.  But today I trusted myself a lot better and made some putts.  If I putt well, I tend to play well.  That's kind of the story for everybody, but I think it's a little more extreme with me.
Q. Closing with five birdies on your last seven holes, just comment a little bit about that stretch?
PATTON KIZZIRE: Yeah, I gave myself some good opportunities.  Hit some be nice drives, nice iron shots.  Then I was seeing the lines.  The good putts that I hit went in, and then the ones that I wasn't sure about went in.  So that's the only way to shoot really low is to have some of your bad putts go in.
Q. Comment a little bit about starting off the season with some good finishes like this, and then your goals for the rest of the year before January rolls around?
PATTON KIZZIRE: Yeah, luckily I've been able to start each year -- this is my third year on TOUR, and I've been able to start pretty fast, which I don't know what the story is with that, but it's nice.  I enjoy fall golf.  I guess we play about year around, and maybe this time of year I get going.
I have some goals for this year.  I want to get in the winners circle.  Trophies are what I'm after.  So that's where my focus is.  I have to be patient, but I'm eager to get one.
Q. I heard from our weather guy that the winds are going to pick up this afternoon.  I'm guessing you would not be against that?
PATTON KIZZIRE: You know, I don't want anybody to have to play in the wind we played in yesterday.  Certainly it would help my chances if the wind did pick up, but yesterday was so tough.  I was dog tired when we finished.  So we'll see.  It seems to be pretty benign right now, but we'll see what happens.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT