SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 2, 2016
Patton Kizzire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You made a great run last year at this thing.
PATTON KIZZIRE: Yeah.
Q. And you almost caught Smylie.  What did you learn from the experience that will help you maybe get over the hump?  I forget who else you may be chasing, or they're chasing you.  What do you take from last year's run here?
PATTON KIZZIRE: I just gained a lot of experience from the situation, being in contention and keeping the pedal down, and I felt like I did a really good job.  I know I caught a little grief by letting people know I didn't look at the scoreboard, but my caddie did and I've started to look at the boards a little more and be a little more aware of where I stand.  Last year I knew that I couldn't make enough birdies.  So that's why I wasn't looking.  I knew I had to keep it down --
Q. You did what you had to do.
PATTON KIZZIRE: Yeah.  So it was a great experience for me.  All the near misses are good experiences.
Q. And the crowd got behind you.  Because they wanted to see a playoff.  They wanted more golf.
PATTON KIZZIRE: Yeah.  Of course.
Q. This tournament, they're trying to grow it and trying to get more traffic out on the course.  Do you like the atmosphere out here in Vegas or what could they do to make it better for you guys from a fan perspective in terms of getting more people to come watch you guys?
PATTON KIZZIRE: I think they do a great job.  I felt like there were fans out there rooting for me, and it's hard to say because I don't have as much experience as some guys.  It's hard to say what would improve it.
Q. Do you find them to be somewhat knowledgeable or do you think would they lack the knowledge to make up the enthusiasm perhaps?
PATTON KIZZIRE: Yeah.  I think Vegas is a golfing town.  A lot of people come here to gamble, but I think they find time to play golf as well.  So I think they're knowledgeable and enthusiastic.  It's a great place to play golf.  I really enjoy the views and the weather, and the golf course is awesome.
Q. Playing a desert course like this, what works to your advantage?
PATTON KIZZIRE: Yeah, this is a little bit more of a ball placement off the tee golf course, place your ball in the fairway and be accurate with your irons.  And of course, I love a putting contest.
Q. You know you're going to have a better shot.
PATTON KIZZIRE: That's what makes this course great is anybody can play it.  You just have to have good strategy off the tee and keep the ball below the hole and putting on these really pure --
Q. And then it slides toward the strip.
PATTON KIZZIRE: Yeah, everything slides towards the -- you gotta be aware of where you are on the course.  Everything breaks toward the strip.
Q. Who taught you to be such a good putter?
PATTON KIZZIRE: I guess myself.  I've never had a putting lesson.  I think as a kid we had a really good junior program, and we were always on the putting green putting for a golf ball or a Coke.  I've always been really competitive, and we spent a lot of times on the putting green as a kid at Indian Hills Country Club.  I like to include Indian Hills in there because that's where I grew up and that's where I learned to play the game.
Q. That's where the junior program was from?
PATTON KIZZIRE: Right.  That's where I grew up.  Indian Hills Country Club in Tuscaloosa, Alabama.  That's where I learned the game.  And my dad was always a good putter.
Q. Maybe it's in the genes.
PATTON KIZZIRE: I followed suit, yeah.
Q. Did your dad ever give you advice early on about putting, how important it was if you were going to take golf seriously?
PATTON KIZZIRE: Well, I watched him.  I played with him and his group that played, and they're all good players.  So I just learned by example.
Q. Because it seems it doesn't matter where you play, if the greens are fast, if they're slow, if they're bumpy, if they're smooth.  Your putting is always -- you're always right there.  I'm amazed when I look at your numbers, I say, how the hell does this guy putt so well every week, because there's a consistency to what you do.
PATTON KIZZIRE: Right.  I think it's the most natural part of my game.  There's not a whole lot of thinking.  I have never gotten into technique or anything.  It's really the most visual part of my game.  I could learn to put that into my long game as well.  But I like hand-eye coordination games, anything, tossing the ball, throwing the ball.
Q. Do you think you would be a pretty good tennis player if you played golf?
PATTON KIZZIRE: I could be decent.  My mom's --
Q. Could you be a good hockey player?
PATTON KIZZIRE: I know I can't skate.
Q. Because that's not hand-eye coordination.
PATTON KIZZIRE: Yeah.  Hand-eye coordination is a strength of mine and visualization.  I can use my visualization on the green more than anywhere else.
Q. Is it safe to say that you don't overthink things on the green, that you just look, you read it, caddie's on the same page, you just go putt?  Is that kind of your philosophy?
PATTON KIZZIRE: I'm so visual that my caddie lets me do my thing unless I ask him for a second opinion.  So yeah, it's just kind of a see-it-and-do-it type of mentality.
Q. I think the less you overthink things, the better you have a chance to succeed.
PATTON KIZZIRE: Exactly.
Q. Too much information up here doesn't always get down to your hands.
PATTON KIZZIRE: That's right.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT