FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 28, 2016
Patton Kizzire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I'm standing on my toes.  I can't stay here for this long.  He's 6'-5", big Pat Kizzire, who just posted six birdies and one bogey on the North Course.  What was working so well today?  
PATTON KIZZIRE: Well, I was getting it in the hole.  I was putting well and getting up-and-down when I needed to.   
Wasn't in the fairways like I should be and like I will tomorrow.   
Swinging a little bit with the driver on some of those par-5s and short par-4s.  I hit a few nice ones out there.  I'm going to go do what I did on those on the range and take it into tomorrow.   
 Q.  You're heading into what has been traditionally the more difficult golf course, the South Course.  What are the challenges for you on that course?  
PATTON KIZZIRE: Hitting it in the fairway.  I feel comfortable about managing it if I am in the rough.  I seem to do all right from the rough.  But the fairways will be a bonus and just giving myself some looks at it, because I'm putting really nice.   
 Q.  You're now on the PGA TOUR, you were the WEB.COM TOUR Player of the Year last season, you started this season on the PGA TOUR with back-to-back top-5s.  What are your expectations as you continue on through this year and this season?  
PATTON KIZZIRE: Well, I expect a lot out of myself, but I try not to think about expectations.  I try to just go out there and do me and do what I can do and try to be as confident as I can and take the best game I can take out there and just see where it puts me.   
I'd like to get in contention, that's what we play for.  I'm just excited for all opportunities I have this year and I would like to butt heads with the best players in the world and see how I do.   
 Q.  Six birdies, just one bogey on the card, your thoughts on how you played here in this first round?  
PATTON KIZZIRE: Well, I got it in the hole.  I played well.  I narrowly missed some of the fairways out there and missed some a little more than others.   
But I was just over swinging and I'm going to go out there tomorrow and hit those 90 percent drivers right down the middle and make it a little easier on myself.  But I'm pleased with how I played, I putted well, so that's always nice.   
 Q.  Three of 14 fairways is the official number, but obviously this rough can be pretty nasty out there, so obviously it wasn't too nasty.  
PATTON KIZZIRE: Well, it's pretty nasty.  I'm tall, so I can get pretty vertical on it and get steep and hack it out and rely on my wedge game and my wedge around the greens.   
I was actually able to hit a few greens from the rough and rolled in some birdies.  So, the fairways, obviously that's where you want to be, that's where the winner will play from, so I plan on hitting some more fairways from here on out.   
 Q.  Five of six scrambling and I think a perfect example of that's with a the par-3 6th.  You missed that just to the right.  But that was not a good lie, but you made a good chip and a really nice putt to get the three.  
PATTON KIZZIRE: That was one of the gnarliest lies I had all day.  I had to kind of toe it down and just we were guessing how it comes out, and I guessed correctly and hit it how I wanted to and it rolled up there and I had a nice look for par and I was able to convert that.  It's all about managing what you got.  I did that well today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT