SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 25, 2015
Patton Kizzire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  One heck of a day for you on the PGA TOUR.  You're not going to win, but you gave it a heck of a try.  
PATTON KIZZIRE: Yeah, it was fun.  I really had some good stuff today.  I let a few slip away during the middle two rounds, especially yesterday, but today it was nice to get out there and play my game and get some balls to go in the hole and give myself a lot of chances.  Joe Etter, my caddie, and I had some fun out there and we were on the same page.  It was our first event together, but we've always been friends.  He was awesome out there.   
 Q.  Take me through the last few holes; what a spectacular approach into 17.  
PATTON KIZZIRE: Yeah, we talked about it.  I was going to have to stretch that one a little bit.  The 8-iron was too much and it wasn't going to land soft enough, so he asked me if I could get a lot out of that 9, and I hit it right on the button, and that was sweet.  I was hoping it was going to go in the hole.  I saw the Jonathan Byrd plaque there.  I know J-Byrd well; I was hoping to have a memory there with him.   
 Q.  That was a 169-yard 9-iron, and then you hit 3-wood off of 18?  
PATTON KIZZIRE: I did.  I've been hitting 3-wood there all week.  I did not hit a good shot there.  I was kind of -- just kind of let it go to the right a little bit.  If I hit that 3-wood good, it goes a long way, so I could have been potentially hitting a pitching wedge or even less into there if I would have really hit one good.  It was the play, I just didn't execute it.   
 Q.  And you thought that approach was right on, didn't you, when it came off the club face?  
PATTON KIZZIRE: No, I knew I hit behind it.  We were playing to be just a hair short.  I wasn't looking at the leaderboard, and Joe hinted to me that it was a good idea to get it on back there because he saw that I was one back and Smylie was in the clubhouse.  So I was hinting that I needed to get back there, but I still thought that was the club.  I just didn't catch it.  I hit a hair behind it, and it just came up a little soft.   
 Q.  Tell me what holes we should be looking out for and hole locations as we come down the stretch of this tournament.  
PATTON KIZZIRE: Wow, where do I begin?  There's a lot of really good locations.  We'll just say 17 and 18.  Or 16 really.  16 is a par-5.  If you err on the long side, which most people will, it's really fast coming back.  And then 17, that one right on the front, there's not a whole lot of margin for error.  A lot of people will be hitting it past that hole just to give themselves a little more room, and then 18, that's a nice location there.  It makes you really focus, and you have to hit a really good shot to get it close.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT