SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 23, 2015
Patton Kizzire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You must be proud of your performance.  
PATTON KIZZIRE: Yeah, I stayed patient and didn't have my best stuff today.  I would have liked to have fed off of what I did on that last nine yesterday, but started off a little shaky, and just had to hang in there and make a few birdies.  You know, I just didn't have my best stuff.  But shooting a couple under par on days like today is good.   
 Q.  Does that prove your maturity level and where you're at with your game, not being over-awed by this occasion and being a full-card member?  
PATTON KIZZIRE: Yeah, I've got a lot of experience.  I'm 29 years old.  Not enough PGA TOUR experience, but I've been able to go back on some events and tournaments before and just hang in there, not get ahead of myself and not get down and just think positive and patient, and that's what I did today.   
 Q.  How fun was it late last night making all those birdies and making an early surge?  
PATTON KIZZIRE: That was a lot of fun.  You'd like to do that on every nine holes.  It just doesn't happen.  It was cool.  After I missed the putt, I was like, man, I wanted to shoot 29.  But really it was -- I had about seven feet for eagle on the last, and in my mind it was for 29, but it was actually a two-putt 29.  It was fun, and I'm excited to get some more opportunities this weekend.   
 Q.  You've certainly got one.  8-under par, just a shot off the lead at the moment, but you're going to be there or thereabouts heading into the weekend.  Talk about your excitement level and what you see in front of you over the next 36 holes.  
PATTON KIZZIRE: Well, 36 holes.  There's 36 opportunities for birdie.  Some holes are a little easier to make birdies.  I'm not really looking at the situation, not really looking at being in the lead or near the lead or behind or none of that, just looking at 36 opportunities for birdie.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT