SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 14, 2021
Patton Kizzire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Always good vibes when you come back to this place.  How did you find the golf course today?
 PATTON KIZZIRE:   The golf course is fantastic.  It's in about as good of shape as I've ever seen it.  I certainly do have good vibes here.  When I get here, it just feels good, and today was a good start.
 Q. What do you like most about it in this condition, and how do you expect this golf course to evolve over the next couple days?
 PATTON KIZZIRE:   It's pretty firm in the fairways.  I imagine it will continue to get firmer as long as we don't get any rain.
 I love the bermuda greens.  I like the position-style golf course.  There's some risk-reward out there that I enjoy and it's all in all, a fun golf course.
 Q. Best thing about today that you can take forward to tomorrow?
 PATTON KIZZIRE:   I feel comfortable.  I'm not trying too hard which I have a tendency to do, and it felt good to freewheel it and have fun and play with two good guys.  I play a lot of golf with J.T. Poston at home, so it was good to see that pairing.  Look forward to tomorrow.
 Q. What was working so well out there for you today?
 PATTON KIZZIRE:   Just I had good misses.  Feel comfortable.  I'm hitting the ball pretty well.  Certainly didn't putt my best but I think it was nice to roll in a putt off the green for eagle.  I left some opportunities out there, but it was a fun day and had a good group and looking forward to getting back out there tomorrow.
 Q. Why do you feel so comfortable on this golf course?
 PATTON KIZZIRE:   The bermudagrass, the style of golf course, I've just enjoyed a position-style Country Club, risk/reward style golf course with bermuda greens, and this is what we have here.
 Q. Where do you feel your game is as we are now into the 2021 portion of the season?
 PATTON KIZZIRE:   It's rounding into pretty good form.  I feel like I have brought in a little momentum from late fall.  I had a few good finishes and I've done a lot of good work with my coach, Justin Parsons, and feel like things are starting to make sense and I'm not having to try too hard.  It been a lot more fun.
 Q. How long have you worked with Justin for?
 PATTON KIZZIRE:   It's been about a year and a half.  It's been great.  It's taken me a while to grasp and make changes.  I'm a pretty stubborn guy.  I don't like to change.  But it's been fun to develop and he's been great, and looking forward to seeing some more birdies.
 Q. What's the biggest change that you feel like you've made in your swing with him?
 PATTON KIZZIRE:   Gosh, I don't even know where to begin.  We're just trying to have -- get myself in a good position in my backswing in order to hit the ball and get on to the ball.  I've certainly done a lot of work in the gym with Randy Myers.  We've tag-teamed; Justin and Randy have helped me a lot, and I'm seeing good results and having fun.
 Q. Does it help playing with a good friend, J.T. Poston out there today?
 PATTON KIZZIRE:   Yeah, Postman and I, we feed off each other a lot.  We play a lot of practice rounds together and play back home.  There seems to be a lot of birdies when we get together.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT