MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2019
Patton Kizzire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How did the conditions compare to yesterday?
PATTON KIZZIRE: Oh, well, it was a little rainy this morning. It was a little tough this morning, as wet as it was. On the range it was tough, I don't feel like I got a proper warm‑up. And then we got on the first hole and it was pretty wet and raining and I chipped it in the bunker on the first hole, got a little skid on my chip, hit it a little too hard and was the victim of your normal Augusta slopes. 
But I got up‑and‑down on the first hole and stayed patient.
And made a birdie in the rain on No. 2. Hit a great wedge shot there, a little pitch shot. 
And I waited until the storm, and until the rain stopped and then it was nice out and felt like I could start playing a little bit more aggressively and attack a little bit and I finally got a few birdies there on the back nine.

Q. When did, what hole did the rain stop for you guys?
PATTON KIZZIRE: I believe it was off and on until about No. 6 or 5. I can't really remember. I don't even remember what I made out there, what I made on each hole out there. But, yeah, it was around 5.

Q. Tell me about that 5th hole, the second shot in particular, I assume you hit a pretty good drive there, you had 200 yards in. What's the challenge there?
PATTON KIZZIRE: Yeah, driver, 4‑iron. That hole is difficult, especially as soft as it is, we're not getting any roll. I had a few times today where my pitch mark was in the way of my, like I couldn't set my club down behind the ball because of my pitch mark, I had to hold it above it and chop down on the ball. So that was another challenge that we had here at Augusta today, on 1 and on 15 I had that. 
But I think there will be some good scores, especially if the wind just stays consistent like it has been. Yesterday the wind was consistent, so I think that helps. As long as it's not swirling and you can have a pretty good guess at it, it makes it a little bit more predictable.

Q. Can you talk about playing here and normally they have a game plan of being aggressive on certain holes and not on others. This week conditions kind of changed that a little bit? Do you find yourself being a little more aggressive?
PATTON KIZZIRE: Not really. I'm trying to pick my spots. I know what makes me feel comfortable, what club, standing on a tee box, what I feel comfortable with. I know I hit every fairway yesterday and I hit a lot of them today, I had a few misses on the back nine, but I hit a lot of fairways. So I'm trying to put myself in a good spot and just stare at the flag and some of them you can get at and some of them you can't and you have to stay disciplined.

Q. On the birdie at 14 it looked like you reacted after your second shot. Did you think it was going to be as good as it was?
PATTON KIZZIRE: No, I didn't. I heard a little, a little something going on‑‑ I don't know what's back there, but there was a little bit of commotion going on right as I was pulling it back and I pulled it a little bit and I know left of that green is no good and I landed just far enough right where it kicked to the right and rolled down there close. So that was a bonus. You have to have those to play well out here.

Q. The last time it was 76, 76, now it's 70, 70. What did you learn either last time or in your preparations that have made the change?
PATTON KIZZIRE: I'm just more experienced, more mature. These past two weeks I've been at home really practicing, visualizing all the shots, trying to be as consistent as I can be in my practice because that's what I've lacked in my professional career is consistency. So I'm trying to do things really consistently at home and allow them to show up on in the tournament.

Q. How frequently do you have a 200‑yard shot to a par‑4 on your second shot on the PGA TOUR?
PATTON KIZZIRE: A few times a round, maybe one or two times a round.
But that green's pretty tough, especially where that pin was, it was right above the knob, which is almost impossible to get it close. I think Michael Kim hit a high cut hybrid, which is almost the best way to get it close, unless you hit a bomb down there and can hit a high cut mid iron. But that's a tough pin for a tough hole.

Q. A beautiful second shot you hit on 18. What did you see there?
PATTON KIZZIRE: Well, my only two birdie on the back nine were both a little bit of a mishit. I used the slopes to my advantage there and that bunker, you're a little bit flatter lie and especially if you have a good lie in there it's not too bad. 
So I hit it and I was a little worried that it was too far to the right, but it landed just inside the bank and kicked up and rolled back down and I took advantage of it with a good putt. 
I feel like I'm reading the greens really well, a few times I haven't putted it where I had lined it up and that's a little frustrating for me, but I was determined to do it on the last.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT