CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: FLORIDA VS VIRGINIA
December 28, 2019
Robert Anae
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ROBERT ANAE: They treat you better when you play better, and unfortunately some of that's not deserved because you get to coach great kids, and vice versa when it heads south.
Q. Let me ask you about a couple of those kids. Olu is a transfer, Bryce is a transfer, and you guys do things a little unorthodox with the jersey and some of the culture that you guys believe in. Is that at all hard to take a transfer and get them engrained in that as opposed to maybe a little more run-of-the-mill?
ROBERT ANAE: Not when your organization is tightly orchestrated. If there's loose ends and those things are half committed to, then they don't really take traction. So someone new would come in and kind of see the unravelling of the seams. I think these transfers come in, and they go, whoa, what is going on, whoa. And everybody is bought in, and whoa. They work so hard, and oh, my gosh, look how they break down an opponent, look how they prepare for a game. Once these transfers see that, they go, oh, my gosh, this is really cool, I kind of like it here.
Q. How did it work with Bryce because I feel like your quarterback and your star player, if he's not all in, there can be those loose ends.
ROBERT ANAE: Oh, absolutely. The result shows 100 percent the buy-in. And Bryce being our quarterback -- the way the game has changed, this is now a quarterback sport, and Bryce being the quarterback and one of the top playmakers and the most committed guy in the process, now everybody else falls in line. And in my opinion, that's exactly what happened.
Q. Obviously you thought he was a good player and that's why you wanted to get him. What did you think he would achieve in terms of impact on the program?
ROBERT ANAE: Athletically he's spot on. Athletically he's developed as a passer. You know, when you recruit a kid, you just are looking at really the bottom level really when you look at it from a recruiting standpoint because all we're doing is trying to get the best player we can, so to say, hey, we saw all this, nobody saw all this. What we did not see on the recruiting film is how committed he is to the process. What you don't see on the film is his ability to lead others in the process. And dang, did he overachieve in that realm. Had no idea that he would be that kind of person, that kind of leader on a team.
Q. When you build a program, part of what you're building is roster management and succession plans and things of that nature. I imagine it's hard to lose a player of Bryce's impact. From what you were just talking about, the leadership, (indiscernible) do you think he's absorbing some of what Bryce has done?
ROBERT ANAE: Way back when? Horse and buggy days, I suppose. Me and my group were sitting in their freshman room, and we got to see Jim McMahon and those guys do stuff. Next thing you know, it was our turn to do stuff. And yeah, you get to see it firsthand. You get something in your brain that says, hey, that's how it looks, that's how it works. Next thing you know, you're out there doing that stuff. So yes, I do believe modeling is a big part in program -- long-term succession plan, long-term success, yeah.
Q. A year ago you guys kind of faded down the stretch of the regular season. You lost some close games and talked about wanting to finish better. But this year you finished strong in the regular season. Just a better team this year or why were you able to do that?
ROBERT ANAE: Yeah, the pieces those guys, Joe, who is, all the guys that are here on the offensive side, that absolutely is the reason for the difference. That hurt. Kind of like our basketball team, that hurt, that postseason thing.
I think those kids take it on themselves to commit at a better level, a higher level, and you know, we're here because of that I do believe.
Q. You were the center of that National Championship team? That's pretty awesome.
ROBERT ANAE: I was a guard. Coach moved me to guard that year.
Q. Was it Bosco at quarterback?
ROBERT ANAE: Yeah, Robbie. Steve Young and I were freshman. He didn't redshirt, I did, so it put us a class apart. But talking to him, yeah, we sat there and saw McMahon and those guys, and we're sitting in those rooms, next thing you know it was our turn, and away we went. So I do believe modeling is pretty important. He was talking about quarterback, how is it going to be in the future.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT