AUSTRALIAN OPEN
February 9, 2021
Pablo Cuevas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  P. CUEVAS/A. Seppi
 6-4, 4-6, 6-2, 6-2
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Can you talk me through your match today and how you were feeling on the court?
 PABLO CUEVAS:   Feeling good.  Happy with my level today.  I had a good opponent.  He has a lot of experience.  He won a lot of matches in Australia.  I'm happy with my performance.  I played last week in the ATP and now I play good tennis, I'm serving well, I'm moving well, yeah, this is my feeling.
 Q. How do you feel physically?  Do you feel like after the hard quarantine you're a hundred percent yet?  Do you need to do more stuff since you got out of the quarantine?  How do you feel?
 PABLO CUEVAS:   Yeah, of course I training a lot in the quarantine in the room, but not tennis, but physically.  I think it's mentally also.  Last week is so good for looking in the feeling with the ball and with the matches, and last week I won two matches and got some confidence.  Now I just, I prepare in new way in Argentina in the pre-season a lot for be ready to here.  I think, yeah, I'm fine.
 Q. Was it tough to do the hard quarantine for you or did you feel okay?
 PABLO CUEVAS:   Yes, of course.  In the room we no have window with air.  It's difficult to training every day and stay calm.  But now it's finished and now I'm happy I stay free.
 Q. You've been called the "King of Quarantine" with all your videos.  Was it just for fun or did it also help you to relax to do these kind of video in hard quarantine?
 PABLO CUEVAS:   No, I start with shocking the first one and the second one and then I receive a lot of messages and I put in my mind every day I need to do more and I think it's good for 24 hours in the room, it's so tough, and with this I had two hours in -- I don't know the way you say, occupying my mind to clear something.
 Q. What was your favorite video?  In the bed or in the shower or?
 PABLO CUEVAS:   No, I don't know, maybe the in the prison.  Yeah, one series in Netflix in the prison in Argentina, it's the same music and a little bit of the same and, yeah, this is I like more.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT