SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 26, 2011
Pablo Cuevas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. CUEVAS/A. Roddick
  6-4, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Would you consider that the most important victory of your career? Do you think that you would have won if Andy was healthy? Do you feel that was a problem for him?
 PABLO CUEVAS: Yes, is more important win. I remember in Valencia I won Ferrero, and I remember I won in Moscow Davydenko, but this one is more important.

 Q. Is it tough to play someone you know is injured, who is having a problem, breathing difficulties? 
 PABLO CUEVAS: Yes, yes. Yeah, (Through translation.) Yeah, it can be difficult, but I was just concentrating on what I could do and control. Only towards the end of the match I saw there was something wrong with him.

 Q. You will play against Gilles Simon. How do you think the match will go?
 PABLO CUEVAS: (Through translation.) It will be another difficult match, because, you know, he's a good player. 
 But, you know, I'm coming with a lot of confidence, and hopefully I will play like I played today. 

 Q. At what point did you know that he was not himself, hurt, sick, or whatever? When in the match?
 PABLO CUEVAS: (Through translation.) Yeah, towards the end of the second set maybe like 5-4 or 6-5, and then like in the tiebreak, like it was 2-Love and I played a forehand and he kind of didn't go for it. 
 So, yeah, at that time. 

 Q. Is that the best you ever served? 
 PABLO CUEVAS: No, no, no. (Through translation.) But I did serve very well today, like good variation, and I placed it well. 

 Q. Is that kick serve that you made about six straight points on, is that your specialty?
 PABLO CUEVAS: Yes. 

 Q. Are the courts slower than usual? Do you notice an advantage maybe for the clay courters because the courts are slower?
 PABLO CUEVAS: (Through translation.) No, I didn't feel that it was slower than previous years, but generally all the hard court tournaments the courts are a little bit slower, so we're used to this kind of, yeah, pace. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT