SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2008
Joey Sindelar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. It was an easier day for the fans, was it easier for you out there today?
 JOEY SINDELAR: Yeah, I think you'll see some better scores today for a number of reasons. It will be a little warmer, so the blood will flow. To this point I would say less wind. It doesn't look like it's going to be -- a couple times it jumped up. But it looks like it's not going to be quite as bad. 
 And really probably the bigger part it is, it's another time around the golf course for us. We're, you know, it's another day of becoming more comfortable and understanding what goes on. 
 It's always nice when we get the same wind, same kind of weather. Because you can often we play our practice rounds in one wind and then a front comes through and then it's an opposite golf course. And that didn't happen this week. 
 But so I think that's part of the reason. Now the wind's just picking up now, and I, of course, I'm not wishing for that to happen. I wouldn't wish a bad thing. But so I think you'll see just a little bit better scoring today. 

 Q. Talk a little bit about your round. Especially 18. You almost --
 JOEY SINDELAR: 18 was fun. It's just a hard golf course. And 18s no different. It starts at the tee and you've got to hit a good shot. And then even if you do, you know, the pins weren't tucked by any means today, but as hard as this golf course is you feel like even if you hit the fairway, you don't want to be entirely aggressive because you don't want to hit a fairway and make aggressive iron play and bounce it over the green and make a bogey. You feel like if you've gotten that far you want to be safe. And I think that's part of the reason why the birdie production is so low out here. 
 Our group, if you do 36 holes times three guys, whatever that is, 108 holes between the three of us for two day, we had six birdies. That's pretty bizarre. It tells you that it's a pretty tough job out there.

 Q. But you got to be thrilled with a 69 today and a plus five, you got to think that's a good number for the tournament, don't you or for the cut?
 JOEY SINDELAR: Oh, for the cut, absolutely. Yeah, I would think the leaders would probably be somewhere between zero and 5-under by the end of the day. Total. So I wouldn't be entirely out of it at this point. I would sure love to be five shots closer, even after 36, would be a fabulous place to be right now. It might not be in the lead, but it will certainly be good enough to go for the last 36. 
 So I'm happy, it's, I played better today. Yesterday I just didn't do anything right and today I did some things right. It wasn't certainly wasn't a perfect round of golf, but it was good enough to be a 69.

 Q. Do you feel like you're close to home and if you do, why, if you don't, why not?
 JOEY SINDELAR: If I --

 Q. Do you feel close to home right now?
 JOEY SINDELAR: Oh, does this feel like home? Oh, are you kidding me? This is it. I mean especially considering where I've been all year. I've been anywhere from Mexico to Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic and then southern United States. So not only would this feel like home if I had just been playing around the country, but this is it. This is our kind of grass and our kind of greens and this is good stuff.

 Q. You're going to be around for the weekend now. 
 JOEY SINDELAR: Yes, going to be here for the weekend. Assuming I did get the right thing on my scorecard. 

 Q. On 18 it looked like you went back and forth with your iron selection a little bit?
 JOEY SINDELAR: Yeah. 

 Q. Did you ultimately pull your first choice and what did you pull?
 JOEY SINDELAR: Ultimately went back to the first choice. That's the difficulty of wind at this velocity. When it starts, five miles an hour, or 10 or less you can pretty much do what you want to do. But all if sudden it starts getting over 10, getting in that 15 range and even more, and with trouble, this is what Majors are all about. The penalties are higher for mistakes. 
 And the question I asked John was, wouldn't I, my caddie, I think I would rather be short at the top of the hill in the front rough than I would rather be long. And that was my option for the 6-iron or 7-iron. Ultimately I did go back to the 7 and it ended up being enough. 
 But it's hard to know. From back there you can't tell if that was a dead crosswind or helping a little or hurting a little. And with a small target like that, and we're already bruised and battered from the first 35 holes, you know, again, I hit the fairway, you want to do the right thing. So it's just a challenge for five hours out there each day.

 Q. How far were you?
 JOEY SINDELAR: 172 yards. And my 7-iron is my 170 club, or thereabouts. And it was a little uphill. So it was about a 175 shot. And which is dead between the two. And it was kind of pick your poison. Where would you rather be. And we guessed right.

 Q. 12 feet?
 JOEY SINDELAR: I would say about 12 feet and from there I thought it was like a left edge putt or a little out on the left and it did seem to break a little bit right in the beginning and then at the end it was baffling, but it went back to the left. You know what, that's, that won't be the last time I ever had something happen on the 12-footer. It won't be the last time. 

 Q. There was only red number yesterday. 
 JOEY SINDELAR: There will be more today.

 Q. Where do you think it will ultimately end up?
 JOEY SINDELAR: Where I'm at 5? I would expect the lead, as I said, it all depends on what the wind does. It all depends on what the wind does for the rest of the day. But I would guess the lead would be somewhere between even and 5-under by the end of the day. There aren't enough birdies out there to go much lower than that. And there aren't enough guys who can get there without many birdies. 
 But yet somebody always does, these guys are so good at putting the ball in the hole, somebody always will shoot something good. So I would expect somewhere between even and 5-under. But we'll know later.

 Q. What do you do the next 24 hours to get ready for what could be an exciting weekend?
 JOEY SINDELAR: Especially at our age if you're going to change anything, this late in the game, you know, you go home -- my family's coming up tonight, we'll have fun. We'll go out to dinner and talk about the day and stuff. And be happy about making the cut and still have a chance at it. And an outside chance. And I'll just do what I do. Again, this is the wrong time to do something different. 

 Q. Being close to home here, as the crowds grow tomorrow and Sunday, will you pick out faces or will you try to ignore the crowd, will you feed off people you recognize or how will all that work for you?
 JOEY SINDELAR: For me personally I will probably make eye contact with a bunch of people. That's the fun of it. I would hate to come up here and march with my head down for 72 holes and not see so many people that came out to say hello. It's tough to have a conversation or anything, but most of them understand that. We got work to do here and they get that. So but it is fun to see everybody. 
 I'm gone, we all live on the road so much that it's fun to have this chance, so many people that I know can be here. It's a lot of fun. 

 Q. More fun than the Dominican Republic?
 JOEY SINDELAR: Yeah, that was a cool place. But home is awesome. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT