ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 19, 2007
Joey Sindelar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  What a nice way to start your day, nice way to start the tournament.  I have you down for seven birdies, offset by three bogeys, and you're on 68.   
 JOEY SINDELAR:  Yeah, it was an unusual day.  What's interesting about golf in this part of the world, this time of year, is you get two different golf courses.  In the morning the air is very heavy, there's a lot of dew on the ground and there's a pretty good amount of mud on the golf balls.   
 Now we're seeing later in the day the ball starting to go farther, up to full distance.  So of course we're all each going to see that with one morning and one afternoon round.  But it's kind of interesting to see how the golf course changes from morning to afternoon.   
  
  Q.  How does experience play into it that you're used to conditions and recognize a morning time from an afternoon start?   
 JOEY SINDELAR:  Well, you know what, everybody says -- I'm not a morning person but yet my scores don't say that.  You've got to kind of ignore it.  If you have a preference, I think you have to ignore it because you're going to have to do one of each every week, Thursday and Friday.  So just go do your best.   
  
  Q.  Birdies at 1, 3, 7, 9, 12, 14, 16, that's an awful lot of red on the card.  Must have seen the line very well.   
 JOEY SINDELAR:  I saw the line well and I had some nice birdie putts.  The weird thing was the first couple of birdies were actually with the 4-iron and the 5-iron, so the long clubs were doing well.   
 But it was -- you'll probably also notice that the par 5s bit me, weird stuff, a couple of mud balls.  This is the kind of golf course where if you hit good shots you can go low, but if you start getting sideways a little bit, you can get in trouble.   
  
  Q.  How much of a challenge is it for you to go back to your home in cold weather, then come out to warm weather?  Is it an adjustment at all?   
 JOEY SINDELAR:  Well, surely you're not quite as good as you could be.  We've talked before, I start becoming kind of a golfer this month when I can go home and I can hit a few balls while I'm there.  You know, for the most part, I've learned to live with it over this much time out here.  You do your best, and sometimes you get lucky.   
  
  Q.  I just want to know, the adjustments, the changes they've made after the course returning home after a year's hiatus.  What's your general attitude after playing in the first round?   
 JOEY SINDELAR:  Well, I think -- really they have made some changes to the course.  16 is a lot different, different look, I think absolutely for the better.   
 But really, the more interesting part is that this is our second time through.  We're not learning it anymore.  Well, some of the young guys, of course, are.  You'll see that the more -- I think you would see that like if the U.S. Open was at the same place each year, you'd see different scoring.  It's knowing where the nooks and crannies -- you can't learn that stuff in practice rounds, you kind of have to do it right and do it wrong over time to really understand what's going on.   
 I think you'll see some nice scores, a great day to play.  The wind was very light.  It puffed up to ten miles an hour a couple times, and luckily on 9 for us it laid down a little bit.  We didn't have to bother with it much.   
 But I think that the TOUR guys setting up the course did a nice job.  There's a couple of really long holes.  The fairways are still a little wet.  I don't know if they're permanently wet, I don't know, but --   
  
  Q.  They had a good rain yesterday morning.   
 JOEY SINDELAR:  We had a lot of mud on the golf balls today.  It's interesting, if you watch tee shots, the tee shots that land really close to the waste bunkers, I say waste bunkers but the long bunkers, there's about a five-yard burned-out patch.  There's kind of like speed slots on the outside.  All of a sudden you get 30 yards roll, and you crush one down the middle and it's like a marshmallow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT