U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 30, 2011
Joey Sindelar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You're hanging in there. How was it today? 
 JOEY SINDELAR: Hanging. Today was a day to shoot a good score again, you know, perfect conditions. 70 was not a bad round, I mean, 69 was not a bad round but by the looks of things it's going to be 14 and 12 or somewhere about, and I'm a ways back now. 
 I've got myself in a place where it's got to be a really good one tomorrow. Where 2 or 3 better today would have solved that, and also that not only gets you closer to the guys in front of you, but it separates you from those good rounds behind.
 But I'm happy it was another good day, and still got a chance of winning the Open, and that's always a thrill. 

 Q. The course much different today from yesterday, pretty similar? 
 JOEY SINDELAR: Very similar. I mean, there were a little this hole up, that hole back kind of stuff. The little bit of wind there was kind of went in circles, but generally speaking it was a lot the same. 
 We're kind of getting tuned into it a little better now. We feel comfortable. We know which way to walk off the 11th and the 2nd holes to go to the next hole and all that kind of stuff, so we're getting there.

 Q. Are the goose bumps any different Saturday night at The Senior Open than they are at the U.S. Open when you're in contention like this? Is it the same? 
 JOEY SINDELAR: What if I said I was never in contention at the regular open (laughing)? 

 Q. Make it a hypothetical?
 JOEY SINDELAR: Well, I will tell you this. The Senior PGA Championship at Oak Hill, which was my first, The Senior Open -- excuse me, The Senior Open at the Broadmoor, Crooked Stick, I was in not contention at both of those, and those places were on fire as I'm sure if I was in the last group or two tomorrow would feel incredibly awesome. 
 Now obviously everybody's wilting under the trees out here and it's a little hard to be real reactive, but to me it's a fabulous experience. 
 But that would be a very interesting question to O'Meara. Olin Browne would be maybe more like me. I don't know if he's been in contention in an Open, but Mark certainly. I think that this tournament's the real deal, absolutely.

 Q. How about the Buckeye support you're getting out there? 
 JOEY SINDELAR: Oh, it's great.

 Q. What are you hearing? 
 JOEY SINDELAR: Everything you'd expect. Go Buckeyes, O-H, as if they want me to do I-O in the middle of my buddy's back swing, but that's okay. It's better than not. It's fun to be back in Ohio. It's a great golf state, so this is -- when this one appeared on the schedule, I was thrilled.

 Q. Do you have what it takes to overcome the guys ahead of you do you think? 
 JOEY SINDELAR: Well, if Olin's at 14 and he's going to go shoot another 4 tomorrow, 8-under is asking a lot. I mean, it's there. It's possible, but the odds begin to get longer. It all depends on what 1 and 2 do. I don't know what Slu shot today, but he must have shot 5 or 6 to climb up, and I'm sure he's sitting there thinking the same thing. 
 I wish we were at 11 or 12. I mean, we're there. We're not out of it, but we're certainly not in the driver's seat.

 Q. You've still got a 4-shot edge over Zach Johnson's caddie, that's got to feel good?
 JOEY SINDELAR: I'm very happy about that. What did he do today? 

 Q. He finished at 5-under, yeah. 
 JOEY SINDELAR: I understand he's a whale of a player. I've never seen Damon swing. But when I heard Gary Koch say he was legendary on the Mini Tours in Florida. I had no-no idea. I knew he was a good player. But I tell you, those guys on the minis will chew you up and spit you out. I did two years of that, and Dick Mast has beaten me by 10 every two rounds we played. 
 It's an amazing thing. So I believe he's a very good player, so I'm not going to pick on him. He's bigger than me too.

 Q. He got some nice TV time. He did his chicken walk after a birdie, and they caught him actually raking a bunker after his playing partner was in the sand. He couldn't help himself. 
 JOEY SINDELAR: You know, he's a funny dude, and he's a TV star. He's making commercials for crying out loud. What do you expect? He's a good guy. I'm very happy for him, and I sense the other guys are as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT