ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 5, 2017
Muffet McGraw
Arike Ogunbowale
Lindsay Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Notre Dame - 84, Duke - 61   
MUFFET McGRAW: 2 for 3 at halftime, didn't look inside nearly enough.  We went in to her and that opened up things on the outside for us to make some shots.  Really, really proud of Erin Boley coming off the bench and hitting some big threes.  I thought Arike and Marina both -- Arike hit some huge threes and when they cut it to two, she was the one that I thought put us back on top.   
 Q.  You called time-out and you guys scored the next 14 on a 20-2 run.  Did you say anything special there like get inside?  
MUFFET McGRAW: Yeah, get the ball to Bree, probably said it a couple of times.  And we were able to do that.  I thought Kathryn coming back in at the high post I thought was good, but Erin was in in that stretch, too.  So I thought a little more discipline on offense, and then really kind of just tightened up on defense.   
 Q.  Lindsay, four titles in four years, you guys are only the second school in ACC's history to win regular season and conference championships in the same four straight years.  What does it mean for this program to win another ACC title?  
LINDSAY ALLEN: It means a lot, especially for Coach McGraw to be able to do that in her career.  But also to be able to experience it as a player means so much.  You know, to be experiencing it with these great teammates that I've had over the past four years.  But just the way the coaches challenge us every single day, whether we're up by 10 or down by 10 the coaches are coaching us the exact same way, trying to get us to extend the lead.  So I think just the way they challenge us and the way they encourage us on the court.   
 Q.  Lindsay, Kyra Lambert and Lexie Brown have had great success on defense shutting down Alexis Peterson earlier in the tournament.  How were you able to have such a great game against them?  
LINDSAY ALLEN: I think we did a good job of kind of exploiting the holes in their defense, and so I think we hit the high post and then just attacking the ACC area and it opened up so much for us.  It was either me or Kat attacking the ACC and finding Bree, and so just being able to kind of play smart and play together as a team has been really successful for us.   
 Q.  Arike, talk about Lindsay for a second.  It's rare that point guards get the accolades for doing what they do and she was the MVP, 13 assists tonight, career high, 33 in the tournament.  What's she brought to you guys in the last three games to help you win this tournament?  
ARIKE OGUNBOWALE: I mean, just what she's been bringing the whole season, that goes to show that you don't really need to score all the points to be the MVP.  She's the MVP even without as many points, the assists and finding other people, which is -- she gets us points.  She's just an amazing point guard, and I love playing with her.   
MUFFET McGRAW: I love coaching her.  She makes my job so easy.  I think we have mental telepathy at times.  We look over and Lindsay calls it before the message even gets delivered.  She's been amazing.  It's been just a great four years with her.   
 Q.  Muffet, what does it mean, four titles in four years here in this conference, and especially since you lost the first game at NC State in the regular season, to rebound from that and get another title with this group, how special is that?  
MUFFET McGRAW: Yeah, it really is.  We really wanted to play NC State again.  I think after that game, that was kind of our goal to meet them again in the tournament.  You know, it was unfortunate that didn't work out for us.  But we were -- I think it's the kind of thing where you don't really appreciate it so much in the moment, and then you look back and you go, dang, four straight years, we've done pretty well.  And I think you've really got to credit Lindsay for that.  What she's done in her four years, I don't know if anybody is going to replicate that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT