MLB WORLD SERIES: METS VS ROYALS
October 27, 2015
Jonathon Niese
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  As a starting pitcher, when it's your day to go, how much does the rain affect you and your thought process and your usual routine?  
JONATHON NIESE: Yeah, because it really affects your routine, for sure, because you never know when you're going to start.   
But I'm sure Harvey has his own routine that he does.  They do the best job they can letting us know when the game is going to start.  For me, I just need to know an hour before they know the game time, that way I can get my routine started.   
 Q.  Is there a certain amount of time, if there is a delay, that you know that you're going to be taken out?  Is it 45 minutes, is it an hour, you know what I'm saying?  
JONATHON NIESE: Yeah, I guess it depends on each pitcher.  Normally it's 45 minutes, an hour.  It kind of depends on how the pitcher feels.  And also how long he's been in the game and how many pitches he's at.   
Obviously if he's gone longer in the game you can't really have that long of a rest or else you're going to lose your stuff.  It's tough to get back.   
But if you only throw one inning, you can usually go an hour, hour and 15 minutes and still have your same stuff when you come back.   
 Q.  What's the difference between starter and reliever?  
JONATHON NIESE: Well, the starter has, he has his own routine.  He has a lot more time to prepare for the game.  And he knows when he's going in.  He knows when he's going to be pitching.   
If you're a reliever, you have to be ready every day.  You never know which situation you're going to be coming in.  As soon as they call down to the bullpen you have to get hot right away.   
For me, just joining the bullpen, when they call my name I get that adrenaline rush right away, so it's kind of easy for me to get hot.   
 Q.  You guys have had so many people that started the Postseason without much experience, but you guys have obviously gone through it well.  Why do you think people have just been able to sort of deal with all the pressure?  
JONATHON NIESE: I think a lot of it has to do with everyone knowing that we have each other's backs.  Kind of keeps them loose.  And, too, the confidence in their stuff.  I think watching each other in our bullpens kind of let's us know what kind of stuff we have.  It kind of gives us that confidence to go out there knowing that our stuff is good enough to get anybody in the Big Leagues out.   
 Q.  You start a game and let's say it's like in the third inning and the rain comes, and it's turning into a longer delay.  For you, everybody is perhaps different, but you try to stay warm and stuff, but how much time is terrible to go back in the game?  
JONATHON NIESE: Like I said before, it kind of depends.  Like if you say second or third inning, say you only throw 30 pitches, maybe you can go longer.  But if you go two or three innings and throw, say, 65, 70 pitches, it's pretty strenuous on your arm.  It's probably a little bit tougher to get back.   
Rule of thumb, it's about 45 minutes.  Obviously if you don't throw that many pitches it could be longer.   
 Q.  I know it's your birthday, but you do recognize the significance of the date in Mets history and the day you were born.  Is that pretty cool to you?  
JONATHON NIESE: Yeah, it's neat.  Twenty-nine years ago, I'm getting old, to some people, I guess.  But, yeah, it's cool.  It's been a long time.  I know the Mets fans are anxiously waiting for another World Series victory.   
I'm glad to be a part of it.  Call it fate, call it what you want, but I'm really excited to be here.   
 Q.  This Postseason the Mets have used some starting pitchers such as you or Bartolo Colon in the bullpen.  How did Terry Collins approach you for this role before the Postseason?  
JONATHON NIESE: I actually approached him.  We were kind of getting close to clinching.  And I kind of understood kind of what the roles were going to be as starters.   
For me as a veteran it was really hard to take the backseat.  But looking at the guys that we had starting I realized I had to.  And I told Terry, I said, You know, whatever role you need me in in the Postseason, I'm here to do whatever you need me to do.   
When we clinched, he pulled me into his office and said, We really need you to be in the bullpen to get lefties out late in the game.  So that's what I did.  I went down to the bullpen, got my feet wet, got used to getting hot real quick, and faced some lefties, and here I am.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT