BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 5, 2016
Roberta Vinci
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. VINCI/D. Cibulkova
6-1, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. 6-1, 6-1.  Very good against a very good player.  Surprised at that at all?
ROBERTA VINCI: Yeah, I'm surprised.  Was easy score, but is always tough to play against a player like Dominika.
But I think I play good game today; really focus every single point.  Well, also yesterday I play great match, so of course I'm in confident.
I'm really happy.  This is my first tournament of the year and I play good.  (Smiling.)
Q. How was the wet weather today?  Did it affect the speed of the court?  The balls?
ROBERTA VINCI: No, no, no.  Nothing special.  Always the same.  No, no, no.
Well, I played yesterday the same court, so.  Not with the rain, but, no, no, nothing different than yesterday.
Q. Anything different about you now that you beat Serena on the US Open?  You haven't been to Australia since then.  Do people point you out?
ROBERTA VINCI: Yeah, yeah, but it's nice.  Yeah, yesterday or two days ago when I practice, someone say, Oh, she beat Serena; she's the player.
So it's nice.  I'm really appreciate.
Q. You talked about confidence.  Have you ever felt this confident in your career before this period since the US Open?
ROBERTA VINCI: Well, of course I'm in confident right now.  I'm 15 in the world right now and try my best to reach the top 10.  This is my goal.  I know is not easy, but I would like to enjoy this year, no pressure, try my best, improve every single day, every single tournament everything.
That's it.
Q. Is it hard or not hard to come down from a Grand Slam final?  Is it easier to play on again or not is it not so...
ROBERTA VINCI: Well, it is not so easy, but, you know, you have here Brisbane and then Sydney, so two tournaments that you can play, practice, and try to stay better in Melbourne.
But I know Melbourne will be of course a tough tournament.  Not easy to reach again another final, of course.  But this year I'm seeded, so I hope in a good draw and then we will see.
Q. Speaking of seeds, they're falling like apples off the tree here.  Maria is gone and Simona is also gone.
ROBERTA VINCI: Yeah, I just saw right now on the TV about Maria, but I don't know why really.
Q. Does it make the rest of the field elated or more excited?
ROBERTA VINCI: I don't know.  (Shrugging.)  For me doesn't matter.  I just play my game and we will see.  Not tomorrow, the day after.
Q. Does it make it easier to win the tournament?
ROBERTA VINCI: No.  The tournament?  No, not easy, but of course I'll try my best.  (Smiling.)
Q. Is it good to have a day off tomorrow?
ROBERTA VINCI: Si, si see, yes.
Q. Tired?
ROBERTA VINCI: Yeah, a little bit.  Yesterday I play against Jelena tough match, also today.  So tomorrow one day off, and then match.  (Smiling.)
Q. You could face Azarenka.  You never beat her.  Why?
ROBERTA VINCI: Well, nothing to lose, of course.  Vika is Vika, so...
But I'm happy that I won two great match already.  So no pressure; nothing to lose; just play my game.  Of course I would like to play like today and yesterday:  Good match, good tennis.
So we will see.
Q. Does it feel very fast - you were unseeded at the US Open - to being now top 15 this quickly?  Is it...
ROBERTA VINCI: Good.
Q. Obviously it's good.  Did it take some time to get used to, familiar with this feeling?
ROBERTA VINCI: Now I'm 15, and then next 8, 7, so, I hope.  (Smiling.)
Yeah, good for me, good for my ranking, for the draws.  Well, we will see.  Melbourne is Grand Slam.  Is a lot of points.  We will see there.
Q. Does it help knowing that you don't have a lot of points to defend until August?
ROBERTA VINCI: Yeah, good for me.  No pressure.  I have a lot of points at the end of the season, but I don't want to think right now about the points in U.S.
Yeah, so this is my time to take a lot of points.  (Smiling.)






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT