CHINA OPEN
October 5, 2015
Roberta Vinci
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. You played very well today, as you did in Wuhan. Did the US Open final give you a new sense of opportunity?
ROBERTA VINCI: Of course I'm more confident the last three months, of course. Yeah, today I play so good. Was a not easy match, tough opponent. 
Was 6‑2, 6‑2, but not really 6‑2, 6‑2. A lot of deuce, especially in the second set. 
But I was solid. Of course, I'm confident. I'm playing good. Last week also, semifinal, match point against Venus. Of course, I'm in good shape. 

Q. You commented in New York you're feeling you're nearly at the end of your career. Playing so well, do you feel like you can keep playing on and on?
ROBERTA VINCI: Of course, I'm at the end of my career. I'm not young. But I really enjoy to play tennis. I have no pressure. So probably I enjoy more than when I was younger right now. That's probably why I'm playing better. 

Q. Do you set your goals higher now that you're a Grand Slam finalist?
ROBERTA VINCI: I have a lot of goals (smiling). But, of course, to reach one final when I'm 32 is not easy. But, of course, I'm really happy and try to win next time. 

Q. In New York you said that you didn't believe you could beat Serena, that you could make a Grand Slam final. Do you think you can make another one?
ROBERTA VINCI: Against her? 

Q. No. Just in general. 
ROBERTA VINCI: I don't know. It's always tough to play against every single player. But, of course, I'm playing good, so maybe I can win against everyone. 
You know, when you beat Serena, in your mind you have to think, okay, you can win with all the players. 

Q. After the loss to Venus, you seemed a bit disappointed. How long did it take for you to put that behind you?
ROBERTA VINCI: No, no, just a few hours. Not so long. Of course, I was sad about the results, but I played incredible match. Just a few hours and then think about this tournament, to come here, and play better also in this tournament. 

Q. Physically how do you feel?
ROBERTA VINCI: So and so. Of course, is not easy. I'm little bit tired. But tomorrow I don't play, so I have one day off. Just a little practice, and then focus for the next time. 
I'm, of course, a little bit tired. Is normal. 

Q. Have you and Flavia and Sara and all the Italians hung out while you've been in Beijing catching up at all?
ROBERTA VINCI: I just spoke with Sara and Flavia in the locker room about Beijing, the silk market and everything. Maybe we go together to have a dinner again. But Schiavi is not here, but we are always in touch with her. We have a WhatsApp chat together all four. We are always in touch with one another.

Q. Flavia said in New York that the WhatsApp chat is pretty crazy, that you will never tell us what it's about. Yes or no? 
ROBERTA VINCI: Yeah, it's crazy. It's incredible. 

Q. Schiavone, Errani and Flavia, you have been into the finals of a Grand Slam. Do you think the competition between you and the experience is an encouragement for all of you?
ROBERTA VINCI: Yes, of course. We are good team and we always do our best. Also if another Italian player reach one final, we always try our best. 
Is good for the tennis, for Italian tennis. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT