HUAJIN SECURITIES WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
November 1, 2016
Roberta Vinci
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
B. STRYCOVA/R. Vinci   
6-4, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  (Through translation.)  You were here last year as well and your performance was pretty good.  How do you comment your game today?  
ROBERTA VINCI: Well, was a tough match of course.  Barbora is a great player, a tricky player, a different player.  Of course I'm so happy to be coming here for the second time.   
Yeah, today I lost, but tomorrow there is another match.  I will try my best tomorrow.  Today I try my best.  I had just 3-1 in the first, a lot of chance, but Barbora is a different player.  She always come to the net.  She run a lot.  She is solid, solid player.   
Bad luck today.  I will try my best tomorrow.   
 Q.  You said you were feeling a little bit injured at the US Open.  Curious how you're feeling physically now?  
ROBERTA VINCI: Better.  At the US Open I had problem on my foot, but now I'm much better.  I practice not so much in Italy, but now I'm okay.  You know, I didn't play Linz and Moscow.  I had two weeks off for recover, for a little bit of rest, and practice.   
But the important thing is that I'm okay right now.  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  You've had some good success against Petra in the past.  What kind of strategy will you bring into the next match?  How will you prepare?  
ROBERTA VINCI: All the same.  Not different kind of tennis.  Just my game:  play aggressive.  Petra is unbelievable player; left-handed.  Have to be aggressive.  A lot of slice of course.   
Well, I have to play good game tomorrow to win against Petra, yes.   
 Q.  (Through translation.)  This is your second time here in Zhuhai.  How do you comment on the organization of the event, and what do you like about the city?  
ROBERTA VINCI: Yeah, this is my second time here.  Everything is perfect.  Everything is nice.  Hotel, organization, the court, the crowd.   
It's a big event here, and, well, really happy to be here for the second time.   
 Q.  During the US Open you were asked about whether you planned to play next season.  You said that you would get back to us.  Curious if you've come closer to making that decision one way or the other?  
ROBERTA VINCI: No, no.  I just want to finish this tournament and then I will decide.  But I don't want to think about my future.  Just play this tournament, stay focused I hope three or four more days, and then we will see.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT