U.S. OPEN
September 12, 2015
Roberta Vinci
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








F. PENNETTA/R. Vinci
7-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Can you just tell us, what are your first memories of Flavia, your earliest memories of meeting her?
ROBERTA VINCI: That she beat me.  (Smiling.)  No, I'm joking.
I don't know.  We know each other for long time, so maybe when I saw her in my mind I remember all the moments that we spend together when I was young.  But one thing, I don't know.
Q. Was it on a tennis court, the first time you saw her, or...
ROBERTA VINCI: No, no, in the tennis court.  In the tennis court, yes, yes.
Q. Do you remember where or what?
ROBERTA VINCI: Where, I don't remember.  Long time no.
Q. Can you share about the hug at the net, what she said to you...
ROBERTA VINCI: I cannot tell you.
Q. You have no idea?
ROBERTA VINCI: No, no.
Q. And also courtside what...
ROBERTA VINCI: No, I said to her, Congratulation, Well done, enjoy.  You played better than me today, so.
That's it.  And she said, This is my last match on the US Open, so now I have to speak and tell to everyone that this is my last match.
I say, No.  That's it.
Q. What did you think at that moment?  You must have been very shocked, I would imagine.
ROBERTA VINCI: When she said me that?  Yeah.  Was incredible.  I didn't expect that.
But just her choice, so it's okay.
Q. What do you think the difference was today?
ROBERTA VINCI: I was tired.  I was tired especially the first set.
I think she played better.  She was more solid than me and she play much better backhand, long line, and she served better than me today.
She play better, yeah.
Q. What do you think this weekend means for the sport with all that has happened?
ROBERTA VINCI: I think it's an incredible moment for all Italian people.  So now when I come back at home, I can realize what we made, because now for me not is normal, no.  But I'm in New York, okay, I'm in the hotel, just have fun, but I would like to come back and try to understood what I did.
Q. Do you still plan to make that 10:00 flight tonight or...
ROBERTA VINCI: (Laughter.)  I have a private jet.
No, no, no, I don't know.  No, no, I don't take 10:00.
Q. Will you celebrate with Flavia tonight?
ROBERTA VINCI: Maybe not.  No, no, I don't know.  No, I don't think so.  Maybe.  Maybe.  I will ask, but I don't know.  I don't know her program.
Q. You played the week before this event in New Haven, didn't you?
ROBERTA VINCI: Si.
Q. Was that an advantage, to make a tournament before the US Open?  Because I know a lot of players don't play the week before.
ROBERTA VINCI: I like to play the week before the slam because I prefer to play -- I prefer to play matches because I don't like to practice one hour in the morning, okay, one hour in the afternoon.  I prefer to play one match.
So, yeah, some players doesn't like.  They prefer to rest and practice, but I like to play.  So it's a good choice for me.
Q. Why the Italian women are much more successful than the men, Italian men?
ROBERTA VINCI: Aye.  (Laughter)  I don't know.  I don't know.  It's a cycle.  You know, sometimes the womens are better than the men, but now in Italy there are good men, good men Italian player.
Fognini, Seppi, they are good.  Step by step.  Now probably they will come better.
Q. What was it like playing in your first final, first slam final?  What was the experience like being out there?
ROBERTA VINCI: I don't know now.  I don't know.  Maybe if you tell me this question in about more days, I can tell you.
But now it's strange.  I didn't expect this.  I'm so happy that I reach the final.  Against Flavia is strange, but I'm really happy, yeah, even when I lost.
Q. Did you feel the raindrops?  Were you hoping it would start raining and maybe you would get a break?
ROBERTA VINCI: When starts rain, I was 5-2 down and Love-30, so I say, two more points.  (Laughter.)
So I say -- No, no, I didn't think nothing.  No.
Q. What do you think the two of you proved to yourselves and proved to everybody else this weekend?
ROBERTA VINCI: (Speaking in Italian.)   Miracles can happen.
Q. How about in English?
ROBERTA VINCI: What?  Miracles can happen.  Because I beat Serena, miracle.  (Laughter.)
And then two Italian can reach the Grand Slam final, a miracle.  Cycle miracle.  And, bo...
One Italian player can win a Grand Slam.
Q. There is a famous fellow from your country, I think his name is Leonardo Da Vinci.  Any connection?
ROBERTA VINCI: No.  (Laughter.)
Q. How was his forehand?
ROBERTA VINCI: No, no, no.  No, my uncle.  No.  (Laughter).
Non scrivere!
Q. Did you and Flavia talk before the match?
ROBERTA VINCI: Yes, yes, yes.
Q. As normal?
ROBERTA VINCI: In the gym, and about the time that we play maybe a little bit late.  Normal thing.
Q. If you had played another opponent would your feeling be different?  Not that you ever like to lose, but is it easier that you lost to your countrywoman and it was a great day for Italian tennis?
ROBERTA VINCI: (Through translation.)   If you lost against Flavia, if you lost against Wozniacki, if you lost against Serena, always the same.  You lost, no?
So now I'm happy that one Italian player won a Grand Slam.  That's for sure.  But it's normal.  Nothing special.
Q. You said you had nerves yesterday against Serena.
ROBERTA VINCI: Si.
Q. Any today?
ROBERTA VINCI: Also today.  Yeah, you know, it's a final.  I try my best.  The beginning I was nervous, but also her.  Was normal.
I try to, yeah, to play aggressive, but she play better.  For me was tough.  I was a little bit also tired and long point.  I had such...
Q. It didn't make it easier that it was a friend who you were playing?
ROBERTA VINCI: No.  Is tough to play against one friend.  I know Flavia for long time, so it's difficult, especially mentally, mental.
Was difficult for both, I think.  Not only for me.
Q. In the last day, what are the best reactions that you have received to what you did yesterday, both the match and your interview after?
ROBERTA VINCI: I receive a lot of congratulations about my interview, but my English is so bad.  The press say, Congratulations, Good job.  Because I beat Serena?  No, for your interview.  Grazie.  Thank you.
I'm not joking.  Is true.  Thank you.  I need to improve my English, eh?
Q. It was very good.
ROBERTA VINCI: No, no, no, not very good.  But I can do it.
Q. How was the crowd different today than yesterday?
ROBERTA VINCI: No, the same.  It was amazing.  It was a lot of supports, a lot of people.  The court is incredible.  Is the best court I think in the Grand Slam.  Center court is so nice.
Q. What did the it mean that the prime minister was there?
ROBERTA VINCI: It's a good thing for us and also for I think Italian people is nice to see Renzi, Malagò, and Binaghi all there to support us.
Q. It's been a great tournament for you.  Why do you think you were able to do this at this point in your career?
ROBERTA VINCI: Well, maybe because I'm, yeah, I have a lot of experience.  I had such result in the past; I had nothing to prove.
I'm almost at the end of my career, so I think I enjoy more the tennis and the practice and this life.
Q. Just to be clear, you're not retiring?
ROBERTA VINCI: Maybe.  No, no, no, no.  Not yet (Smiling.) (In Italian.)   Almost.
Q. Have you thought actively about retiring?
ROBERTA VINCI: Si.  No, really.  A lot of time during these years.
But, you know, I like to play tennis, so I have a passion and I work in art.  Now I reach one final slam, so I'm happy.
Q. What are your emotions about all of this right now?
ROBERTA VINCI: About all?
Q. About everything.  What are your emotions?
ROBERTA VINCI: I love New York.  (Smiling.)  Today probably this is my last cheeseburger, and then tomorrow pasta, real pasta at home.
But, no, I enjoy all the season, all the US Open season.  I play so good.  Yeah, my emotion are difficult to say, especially in English.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT