U.S. OPEN
September 4, 2013
Roberta Vinci
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 F. PENNETTA/R. Vinci
      6‑4, 6‑1 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You and Flavia are obviously good friends.   What did she say to you at the end of the match?  
    ROBERTA VINCI:   Oh, just Well done, Robby.   Congrats.   That's it.  
   
 Q.   Nothing more personal?  
    ROBERTA VINCI:   No, no.   
   
 Q.   It seems to us like a very special occasion when the two of you play, especially those of us who aren't Italian and know your stories so well.   Does it feel like a special occasion to you, too?  
    ROBERTA VINCI:   Yes, it was of course a special day for us.   Is a great chance to go to the semifinal.  
    This time she won, but I think that I'm happy, too, about this tournament.  
   
 Q.   What would you say is Flavia's best qualities as a player and as a person since you know her so well?  
    ROBERTA VINCI:   Well, she's a great player and also great person.   I know Flavia from a lot of times, a lot of years.  
    What I have to say?   Congrats to her.   That's it.  
   
 Q.   I know it's disappointing, the result, but what positives do you take from the week and a half that you have been here?  
    ROBERTA VINCI:   What positive?   
   
 Q.   Yeah, the positive.   
    ROBERTA VINCI:   Well, of course for me it was a great tournament, of course.   Last year I'm quarterfinal.   At the beginning a lot of pressure, a lot of points to defend.   
    This time I lost again in quarterfinal.   I know I'm a little bit sad, but if you think about just the tournament, I'm happy, of course.   
   
 Q.   Many people see your game and say that it's a game from a different period maybe, that it's very different from the way most women play today with your use of slice and coming to the net so much.   Do you feel this yourself, that you're a little bit different from these other women?   
    ROBERTA VINCI:   Yes, of course I have a different kind of tennis.   I know, but I think this is my key.   Sometimes help me; sometimes not, you know.   Depends of course the opponent.   
    But, yeah, this is my kind of tennis.   I cannot play in different style.   I'm happy that I'm different.  
   
 Q.   Do you remember the first time you ever played Flavia, how old you were then?  
    ROBERTA VINCI:   Well, long time ago (smiling).   Probably when I was 10 or 9, yes.  
   
 Q.   And what was that match like, do you remember?  
    ROBERTA VINCI:   Well, when we were young, I won a lot of time against her, yes.  
   
 Q.   And do you remember when you guys became friends?  
    ROBERTA VINCI:   (Motioning long time back.)   I'm 30 right now, so probably 20 years ago.  
   
 Q.   Do you remember what it was about her and about you that kind of clicked?  
    ROBERTA VINCI:   No.   Long time ago (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Your ranking has improved a lot this year.   
    ROBERTA VINCI:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Are you doing anything different?  
    ROBERTA VINCI:   No, no, no.   Nothing change.   Same stuff, same training, same.   No, no, no.   
    But I'm happy I'm improving a lot.   I know I'm 30, so I'm so happy that now I'm 12, 13, in the world, so I'm happy.  
   
 Q.   Why do you think that women are able to play later into their careers now?  
    ROBERTA VINCI:   I don't know.   Maybe the experience.   Now I'm playing so good from two years, so maybe the experience.   
    I'm 30.   I'm mature.   So probably that's the key that now I'm going so good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT