U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2013
Roberta Vinci
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. VINCI/C. Giorgi
      6‑4, 6‑2

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Congratulations.   How did you feel out there playing your countrywoman?
    ROBERTA VINCI:   Well, of course I'm happy.   I knew that it was a tough match.   She played good.   She play always strong, flat, and I knew that I had to play‑‑ I have to change a lot of my focus.   Of course I'm happy.   Now I'm focus about the doubles later.

Q.   With all of the travel that tennis players do throughout the year, how do you handle the long flights to Asia and Australia?   Will you allow yourself to upgrade for these flights to make it easier on your body?
    ROBERTA VINCI:   No, I stay focused all the time, every week.   Now I'm focused about the U.S., and then later to go to Asia for a lot of important tournaments. 
    I know that I'm not young, but I'm enjoy to play.   I'm high ranking, so I'm happy, and I try to stay focused every single day.

Q.   How important was it for you to get the match in before the rain started?
    ROBERTA VINCI:   Well, I'm happy of course.   (Smiling).   Now I have a lot of time to rest and to play the doubles. 
    Of course I was lucky.

Q.   What would you say is the key to your success these past two years?   Because you were always around 20 to 40, and now you are closer to top 10.   Did you change something, or is it more just understanding of your game?
    ROBERTA VINCI:   No, nothing changed.   Always the same stuff, same practice.   Probably the age.   So when I go on court I have more experience than before, but nothing special.

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about the fact that there are so many Italian women right now climbing up the ranks?
    ROBERTA VINCI:   Well, is good.   Is good.   Italian tennis going up, and it's nice, of course.   So is nice. 
    Probably in the quarterfinal if Flavia won, another Italian girl goes to the semifinal.   So is good for Italian tennis.

Q.   Are you close?
    ROBERTA VINCI:   For? 

Q.   Are all of you Italian players close together?   Are you friendly?
    ROBERTA VINCI:   Of course.   We play Fed Cup all together.   Yes, we speak.   Yes, we are a lot of friends. 

Q.   What would you say has been the key to your rivalry with Errani?   Obviously you guys are very good friends, but you have won the last two matches you have played against her and broken the streak.   What would you say has been the key for you to come through with the wins against her this summer?
    ROBERTA VINCI:   Well, I know Sara of course a lot.   I played aggressive, aggressive, aggressive.   I know that she doesn't like when someone plays aggressive.   She likes to play a lot of ball on the court.
    Yeah, I won the last two times, but I play really, really good.

Q.   You guys are best friends and you play the same tournaments together, play doubles together, practice together, travel together.   Do you ever feel like, I need a break? 
    ROBERTA VINCI:   Yes, of course.   Of course.   Yes, yes, yes, of course.   She knows everything, I know this one.   Yeah, sometimes you have to stay alone and she has to stay alone.   Of course. 

Q.   How did you feel in terms of being in the stadium today?   Camila has been on such a rise and there were so many fans cheering for her.   They're really loud on the court. 
    ROBERTA VINCI:   No, but is normal.   Camila is young player.   Of course the public wants that Camila goes to the quarterfinal or semifinal.   Of course. 
    But when I was on court I just thinking about my game, not the public, not the crowd.   No, no, no.   But it's normal that the crowd wants Camila goes to the quarterfinal. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT