U.S. OPEN
September 6, 2016
Roberta Vinci
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. KERBER/R. Vinci   
7-5, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Obviously disappointing.  You had a rough break and then all of a sudden she broke back and kind of seemed like a different match.  Talk about what happened.  
ROBERTA VINCI: Yeah, was of course a tough match.  Bad luck for the first set.  I had so many chance.  Probably I was playing better than her the first set.   
But she's a great player.  She miss maybe two or three balls and she run a lot.  She's in confidence.  So I lost the first set, and then the second set she started to play better than the first set.  I was a little bit down.   
But anyway, of course I'm so sad about today.  In general I played a great tournament.  Now just will go home and take some days off; see what I have for my injury, and then we will see.   
 Q.  You felt that she became a significantly better player?  
ROBERTA VINCI: Yeah.   
 Q.  Because she had said she sort of learned to relax; she had nerves coming in and you are a tricky player.  It wasn't so much that your game fell, it's that she was able to raise the level of her game?  
ROBERTA VINCI: Yeah, I have different kind of tennis, of course.  Yeah, she was a little bit nervous probably because she knew that I am different player.  Probably she prefer to play with some opponent that play flat.   
But I have a different game, and, well, to beat her, she's tough.  You have to play great tennis, high level.  I played high level for just one set.   
But that was the best that I can do today.   
 Q.  Last year you were coming in and facing Serena, clearly the hottest player on tour.  Right now you can say Angie is the hottest player on tour right now.  Two years in a row.  Did you draw upon last year, what you were able to do against Serena?  
ROBERTA VINCI: Well, this morning in my mind I said, of course, Okay, try your best; tough opponent like Serena last year.  You have nothing to lose.  Play your game.  Try to enjoy.  I knew that I was in the quarterfinal after a lot of problems, but I was fighting also today.   
But, yeah, she's No. 2 in the world.  Maybe No. 1.  So she's in confidence.  For me was tough, but I play good game today.  I knew it was tough, tough to win against her.   
But, yeah, she's a great player.  She won, so she played better than me.  And that's it.   
 Q.  From what you remember of her a couple years ago, what is different about the level of her game today?  Is it mental...  
ROBERTA VINCI: My game or her game?   
 Q.  Her game.  What has raised?  
ROBERTA VINCI: Well, she's a great player.  Yeah, probably different is mentality, from the mentality.  She's confident.  She miss not so many balls, and she say always focus every single point.  She run a lot, so you have to push a lot to win a point.  You have to run a lot.   
Yeah, she's No. 2 in the world, so now she's probably better mental, and also tennis.  Both.   
 Q.  It appears that you're saying that the mental toughness has been a significant factor that has transformed her game.  
ROBERTA VINCI: Okay, okay.  Sorry.   
 Q.  So if that is the situation, so her game has been basically the same --  
ROBERTA VINCI: Yeah.   
 Q.  -- in the past several years.  It's just now she's mentally tough and says, I can beat you; Vinci, I can beat you?  
ROBERTA VINCI: Yeah.  She won a lot of matches this year.  She won one Grand Slam.  She won a lot of match.  So when the moments is tough, probably she's...   
 Q.  So does that create a fear within you now, her mental toughness?  Because I'm hearing something here that's mental, mental, mental, so perhaps it's creating fear in you and some of the other girls that she's...  
ROBERTA VINCI: She's on fire.  She won a lot of matches.  She's in confidence.  When the moment is tough and both are so close, she's focused.  She's in good shape.  She's No. 2.  So probably this is the difference between us.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT