DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 22, 2013
Roberta Vinci
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. ERRANI/R. Vinci
  6‑3, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Very tough conditions for you.   Your friend, obviously.   How do you compare it to the last match in the US Open?
ROBERTA VINCI:   Yeah, it was the same match like in the US Open.   Is not easy to play against her, for me.   But I think she played a good game today.   She miss probably two or three balls.
For me, it was tough because I had to play always aggressive.   When you play against someone that doesn't miss any balls, it's tough to play every single point a long point.
Yeah, she play better than me today.   But for sure I'm happy I play an unbelievable tournament.   This is my first semifinal in this tournament.
I'm sad, I know.   It's not easy.   But in few hours now will be better.

Q.   Would you say you regret this tension that you had, that maybe you couldn't play your best?
ROBERTA VINCI:   Yeah, sure, I was nervous in the beginning but also in the second set. 
Yeah, if you play more relaxed you can play much better.   If you are tight and with a lot of tension, it's difficult to play.

Q.   When you were talking to your coach at 4‑1, then after you were playing more aggressive. 
ROBERTA VINCI:   Yeah, more aggressive because, yeah, I was losing and on my mind I say, Come on.   Try all the best and aggressive.   Try to play better.

Q.   Could you explain how difficult is it to go to the net against her?   Because you didn't go to net like you did in the previous match. 
ROBERTA VINCI:   Yeah, but it was difficult to go to the net against her, also, because we know each other.   I know that she play always backhand cross, difficult and along line and backhand.
But was difficult for me to play against her today.

Q.   Still a pretty good week for you, right?
ROBERTA VINCI:   Yeah, sure.

Q.   Do you feel like because you two didn't play doubles this week so you two can focus more on single now?
ROBERTA VINCI:   No, no, no.   Probably, but the next tournament I will play singles and doubles.   I don't want to play just singles.

Q.   You don't feel like because you didn't play doubles your singles improve this week?
ROBERTA VINCI:   Yeah, but not because I didn't play double, no.   I don't think so.

Q.   There was an awful lot of break points, breaks of serve throughout the match.   Is that due to your style?   Are you both better counter‑punchers and returners, would you say, or...
ROBERTA VINCI:   Well, I served not so good today.   She doesn't serve good any time. 
Yeah, probably I have to do more aggressive on my return, for sure.   Next time.   (Smiling.)

Q.   Was that due to the uncomfortableness when you're facing each other?
ROBERTA VINCI:   Yeah, it's difficult to play against her.   It's difficult.   It's not when you play Sam or another player.   You play more relaxed.
Against Sara I know she's like my sister, so it's difficult to play with tight‑‑ I don't know the name in English.   It's difficult.

Q.   I presume you wanted to go on and win from here.   Although you're disappointed, you wanted to go on and win? 
ROBERTA VINCI:   Yeah, for sure.

Q.   On Monday you'll sit next to her again? 
ROBERTA VINCI:   Well, sure.   Yeah, I played a good tournament.   I won against Kerber, Stosur, two top 10s. 
Now I'm a little bit sad, but I'm happy because I played good tennis.   Not today, but in this week I played a good game.

Q.   Would you go and have dinner with her now after the match? 
ROBERTA VINCI:   Yes, yes, yes.   But in a few hours.   Not now.   (Laughter.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT