U.S. OPEN
September 3, 2012
Roberta Vinci
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. VINCI/A. Radwanska
  6‑1, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How did it feel?   
ROBERTA VINCI:   Good.   I'm so happy, so excited.   
Tough match, for sure.   But I think I play really good game today.   So focused, so aggressive, especially at the beginning.   6‑1, 3‑1, I lost a bad game on my serve.   But on my mind I say, Don't worry, try to play like the first set, aggressive when was the ball especially in the middle of the court.   
Unbelievable match, for sure.   
   
 Q.   When she rallied back to 3‑All in the second set, were you concerned?  
ROBERTA VINCI:   Yeah, 3‑All on my serve, 30‑Love, then I lost two points easy, 30‑All.   When I won that game, I said, C'mon, now try to break her.   4‑All.   
But, yeah, I play good.   At the end I play good.  
   
 Q.   Were you nervous towards the end?  
ROBERTA VINCI:   Yeah, I was nervous, for sure.   I lost serve four times.   My first quarterfinal in a Grand Slam.   So, for sure I was nervous.   
But I won a lot of matches.   So probably I was confident.   So I say, C'mon, don't think about the score, play and relax.   
   
 Q.   Why do you think you're having the success at this stage of your career at this age?  
ROBERTA VINCI:   Well, probably because I'm 29.   I'm not young.   I have a lot of matches behind me, a lot of experience.   So probably that's why I won today.   
   
 Q.   First quarterfinal.   Would you rather it not be against Errani, of all the people you could play at this stage?  
ROBERTA VINCI:   Yeah, first quarterfinal, against Sara.   I'm happy to play against her, for sure an Italian goes to the semifinal.   She's my best friend, so I'm very happy to play against her, for sure.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like the Italians are doing well?  
ROBERTA VINCI:   For sure, for sure.   When Schiavone won Roland Garros and Flavia goes to top 10, also Sara final in Roland Garros.   Me, I try, yeah, to come like the other one for sure, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Have you heard from them?  
ROBERTA VINCI:   Yes, sure.   
   
 Q.   Agnieszka said she found playing against you was uncomfortable, the variety of shots, you kind of kept her off balance.   
ROBERTA VINCI:   Yeah, but I have a difficult style of tennis, for sure, different style.   I mix a lot of balls.   I go to the net.   I play a lot of slice.   So it's different.   
So probably she doesn't like my slice.   Also when I go to the net, probably the passing not so good.   That's why I won today probably.   This is the key.   
   
 Q.   How does it feel to have to come into the big interview room?  
ROBERTA VINCI:   It's nice.   It's not easy to speak English for me.   But it's nice to see a lot of journalists.   It's nice.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT