U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2016
Roberta Vinci
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. VINCI/C. Witthoeft   
6-0, 5-7, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  The first set was 6-Love.  The other sets were 5-7 and 6-3.  Was there a discernible difference between the first set and the others?  
ROBERTA VINCI: Well, I played a great first set, 6-Love, but there was always tight.   
The second set was 5-3-up, 5-4, 30-Love, and so many chance to win the match.  I lost that game, and then a little bit confusion and a little bit nervous.  I lost the second set.   
On my mind I say, Okay.  Forget the second set.  Try to play like the first set.  Yeah, I won.  She's a great player.  I never play against her, so was first match between us.   
She's young, but I think she played a great match.   
 Q.  Are you part of the U.S. Olympic team now?  What's with the shirt?  
ROBERTA VINCI: You like it?  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  Yeah, as an American.  
ROBERTA VINCI: I'm not American, eh?   
 Q.  Where did you get the shirt?  How did you get the shirt?  
ROBERTA VINCI: In New Haven, I think.   
 Q.  Did you trade with somebody?  
ROBERTA VINCI: No, but I like.  Is Nike.  Is okay, okay?   
 Q.  In Australia you were kind enough to tell us that your old uncle, your Italian uncle, Leonardo, had given you advice before the Australian Open.  Did your Uncle Leonardo give you some advice before the US Open this tournament?  
ROBERTA VINCI: Leonardo DaVinci.  He's my uncle.  Still my uncle.   
No.  I'm joking, eh?  (Laughter.)   
Yes, he's my uncle and also my second coach, okay?  What do you think, better?  Okay.   
 Q.  What is your philosophy of dropshots?  
ROBERTA VINCI: Is my style.  I don't know.  I play like this for a long time when I was young, so I love to play this kind of tennis.  I don't have a two-hand backhand, so this is my tennis.   
I love to play like this.   
 Q.  Do you find it almost as effective on a hard court as clay or grass?  
ROBERTA VINCI: Yeah, I prefer to play on hard court, yes.  On clay you have to run a lot, and also, when you play on hard court...   
 Q.  I mean using the dropshot.  
ROBERTA VINCI: It depends.  It depends on the opponent and depends if I feeling good, if I'm in confidence, a lot of things.  Doesn't matter.  On clay or hard court, the same.   
 Q.  What's your approach this year after having had such a high moment last year in the semifinal?  
ROBERTA VINCI: A lot of pressure, of course, but I try to enjoy, to play match by match, don't think that I have a lot of points to defend, just play my tennis, and play aggressive.   
Right now I won three great matches, and stay focused for the next round.  We will see.  I know it's tough to repeat the final like last year, but you never know.   
 Q.  You said after your first-round match that you knew you had gotten 60 points for the win.  How aware are you of the weekly rankings and how much each win earns new ranking points?  
ROBERTA VINCI: I think a lot about the ranking, about the points.  Right now I don't know how many points I won today, really.  I'm not joking, but I think a lot.   
But I want to continue.  I want to play another great match for the next round, and then we will see.  I don't want to think about the ranking right now.   
 Q.  Now that you're in the second week, is the feeling that you have right now relief or excitement or how do you feel about it?  
ROBERTA VINCI: Well, I'm so happy, of course, but I'm a little bit tired.  I'm not so good with my foot.  Of course happy but I'm so-and-so right now.   
Tomorrow, like always, a little bit of rest, just a quick practice, and then match.  But of course I'm happy.   
 Q.  One of your countrymen said the US Open was the worst of the slams.  How would you rank?  
ROBERTA VINCI: Why worse?  No, I like.  For me it's not the worst.  I love to play here, of course.  I had such a great moment from last year, but also I made quarterfinal against Sara one year.  I won one title in doubles.  I love to play here.   
 Q.  Is it your favorite?  
ROBERTA VINCI: Yes.   
 Q.  You won your doubles title, as you mentioned, on Louis Armstrong.  Is there anything special you like about that court?  
ROBERTA VINCI: I like that court, yes.  It's a big court, of course, but when you stay on the court it's small.  I don't know if you understand me.   
But, yeah, we won there in the final.  Yeah, the center court is the best, but I have great memory also from Armstrong.  When I saw yesterday the schedule, I was happy that I play, yes, on Armstrong first match.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT