INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 10, 2019
Romeo Langford
Devonte Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Ohio State - 55, Indiana - 52
Q. Romeo, when you're at new Albany, your teams there lost 10 games in four years.  You've lost 11 since you've been here.  How are you handling it?  Has it been difficult?  What have you learned about yourself through this process, too?
ROMEO LANGFORD: I mean, it was difficult at first.  I mean, you're going to win some and lose some, but right now we're just trying to get back on track.  We're taking it a day at a time, and I feel like us as a team, we're doing pretty well through this.  None of us have our heads down.  We're all just focusing on getting better each and every day to be better than we were the day before.
Q. Romeo, what do you feel the issues are with you guys at the start of games?  It's been something that's happened with some regularity.  You kind of get down and have your fight your way back.  What do you feel is the issue?
ROMEO LANGFORD: We're just flatfooted and we let the other team hit us first before hitting them, and then we've got to play catch up for the rest of the game.  It's been a common theme throughout like the season, us starting off slow, but we're still working every day to get better, be better than we were the last game.
Q. Devonte, slow starts, you've kind of been through this before, and Juwan has talked about the upperclassmen from a leadership perspective, being able to guide that.  What have you talked about as a team to maybe address the slow starts, and why do you think whatever kind of the strategy has been hasn't been effective?
DEVONTE GREEN: I think we just need to be ready out of the gate.  That's the word we've been preaching since we've started slow, and I think if you stay ready, you don't have to get ready.
Q. How disappointing is it that you weren't able to capitalize on the momentum you had coming out of that Michigan State win?
ROMEO LANGFORD: I mean, it is kind of disappointing, but we really can't focus on the last two losses.  We've got to focus on the next game, which is Minnesota.
Q. It seemed like this atmosphere really was electric when you guys tied it up under 5 minutes.  You finally seemed to get a bit of a jolt of energy.  What does it take to harness that, to try to sustain that and keep that elevated through the final five minutes?
DEVONTE GREEN: I think just spreading that energy throughout every player, from the bench to the first man up.
Q. Romeo, how do you feel like your three-point shot has been just progressing this year?  How much confidence did you start to feel with it towards the end when you hit a couple, and what happened on the last one that you missed?
ROMEO LANGFORD: I've been in the gym working on it since day one, and I feel like my three is coming back.  I just missed the shot.  It went in and out.  You miss some and you make some, so that's all that happened.
Q. You guys talked about needing to come out and start games a bit better.  Is there any increased urgency that you guys feel, maybe stressing you guys in practice or just urgency from the coaching staff that comes to you during games now that the season has gone the way it has?
DEVONTE GREEN: I think there's definitely a sense of urgency starting everything that we do, and starting and finishing the same way.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT