INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 7, 2020
Devonte Green
Joey Brunk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Can you talk about what it's like to have a week between games and just be able to kind of restart and get refreshed a little bit and what it's meant for you guys both physically and mentally?  
DEVONTE GREEN: I think it's a nice little break for us, especially getting used to having games back to back to back. We get a couple more practices under our belt before this game and just more time to relax and recover.   
 Q.  Basically every night in the Big Ten (no microphone)?  
JOEY BRUNK: I mean, yeah, it's been a point of emphasis this week. We have a lot of good guys inside, and it's going to be really, really important for us. In the Big Ten you're playing somebody night in, night out that's a really, really good player inside.   
 Q.  I think they said you were ill going into the Ohio State game. How much did that drain you last week? How much better are you now?  
JOEY BRUNK: I didn't feel right going into the game, but it is what it is. Nobody feels great at this point really in the year. It's a long year. I feel good now, and we've had some chance to rest up, and I'm ready to go tomorrow.   
 Q.  Devonte, your experience with this rivalry, a lot riding on this, not just the rivalry, but a win can do a lot for you. Talk about that all.  
DEVONTE GREEN: I mean, we know every game in the Big Ten matters, and it's going to be as tough as the next one. But it is a rivalry game. We know our fans are going to be in here and bring the atmosphere that we need. Again, this win will be important for our future but also just important to us as a team just because of who it is, I guess.   
 Q.  Specifically when you look at Matt Haarms, what do you see from them inside?  
JOEY BRUNK: I mean, he runs the floor well, and he scores the ball well inside. He's a skilled guy and can do a little bit of everything for them. It's going to take a group effort across the board on all their bigs. It's going to be a fun one tomorrow.   
 Q.  The 19 threes, them coming off that game, they've been an up-and-down team shooting the ball but how important is it to get out on them and make sure they don't get off to a hot start?  
DEVONTE GREEN: It's definitely important that we try to limit their three-point makes. It won't be easy where they're coming off a game feeling hot, but I think we'll do what we need to do.   
 Q.  Joe, obviously there's a number of guys on both sides from Indiana. (No microphone.)  
JOEY BRUNK: It's an unbelievable opportunity to get to play in it. Growing up watching Big Ten games but especially the IU-Purdue game always carries a little more weight. I remember watching it growing up, and you always made sure you got home in time from practice to be able to watch. It's really, really special to get the chance to play in it. I know it's going to be one of those that you're happy that you got to say you were a part of when you look back down the road.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT