SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 30, 2019
Kyahva Tezino
Tariq Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SDSU 13
BYU 3
Q. The tackle on fourth and six to give the offense, the possession, the strip sack, the fumble, what is it like to give your offense extra possessions?
TARIQ THOMPSON: It feels great but there's 11 men on the field. I'm one person doing my job. The other ten players did a job every play. We held the team to three points. That's a great defensive efforts. My teammates, they give me more confidence and energy to make plays. I thank them for their efforts.
Q. BYU, averaging 40 a game, you guys hold them to three. What does it say about this defense?
KYAHVA TEZINO: It's just unstoppable. It's a very emotional moment for the whole team to have the seniors, the ones who put in the most work and see the younger guys step up so big for us, I just thank all the younger dudes for making this happen, making me go out the right game and I'm sure we're going to go to the Bowl game and do something special.
Q. How are you processing all of this?
KYAHVA TEZINO: It's an emotional moment. I'm probably going to cry in the locker room. These past five years, it's been a great ride for me. The football team, San Diego State as a whole, I don't know how I'm going to replace it. I just love hanging out with these guys. I just love working out, sweat, blood, tears, every single day. It's going to be hard to replace that. I'm glad I made the decision to come here and everything worked out the way I wanted it to.
Q. How much of a leader and example has Kyahva been to you?
TARIQ THOMPSON: My freshman year, he stepped into the lineup, I think it was Fresno State and he gave us energy the whole year. He's just one of those big brothers for you, so you look up to him. He makes plays every game, so like when he makes a play, he gives everybody energy. He never gets too hard on anybody. He tries to make plays, give us energy and he's a great leader off the field and he's a great man, loves God, and just a great person and that's why we love him so much.
Q. The second play at the end, what does it say about the maturity of the group and the unit the last two years?
TARIQ THOMPSON: I want to say we just want the ball more. We came out, wanting to shut them out and we gave up three, but we said we're not going to give them a touchdown. Barcoo, Trenton, Taylor, Dwayne, Rashad, all the other players on the defense, the secondary, practice every day. We try to hold the offense to nothing. But without the offense giving us a hard time in practice, we probably wouldn't be able to do the stuff we do in the game. Shout-out to the whole team.
Q. In previous years, you played a lot more -- seems like you have a different kind of confidence.
TARIQ THOMPSON: We believe in ourselves and we believe in each other. I felt like if I'm not going to make a play, Barcoo, Trenton, Taylor, Dwayne, Rashad, they are going to make a play. We all trust each other. It's just one of those things where you know somebody else is going to make a play if you don't make a play. We hold each other to that standard.
Q. What were some of the conversations with the seniors? Do you have a conversation before or after the game?
KYAHVA TEZINO: I feel like the seniors and the whole team now what was at stake coming in here. We had nothing to lose. It was just us going out there and having fun and doing something we love. I just told everyone before the game in our little pregame speech, I love you guys. We have got to end this on the right note. I know we're not going to the conference championship but we have to make the best of our opportunities and we did the best we could. I'm happy it ended this way. As a defense, you have to be proud to held them to three points.
Q. Do you realize how successful this program has been in your time here?
KYAHVA TEZINO: It's been very successful. Since I got here as a freshman, we been winning at least eight plus games or seven, so it's just been a great opportunity to be on this team just to go to a Bowl game every year, because a lot of players and stuff don't do that. I'm just so grateful for these guys that got on the team and then every single day wanted to come to work, get better and on the field, you see we're playing lights-out. I just thank God and I just thank them for always being there for me.
TARIQ THOMPSON: Kyahva is the reason we go to these Bowl games and have these great seasons. Great guy and great teammate. I can't say much more, he's that guy, on and off the field.
Q. Anything to say to Carson Baker after the game?
TARIQ THOMPSON: That's my guy. I told him to be calm and cool.
KYAHVA TEZINO: Big shout-out to him. He stepped up for us, not just for the team as a whole but the seniors as a whole. We needed someone to step up and he stepped up big. He played great. He played his role very great and when his name is called, he seized the moment. I'm sure his future is bright from here. FastScripts by ASAP Sports ...






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT