SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 31, 2019
Ryan Agnew
Dwayne Johnson Jr
Tariq Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








San Diego State - 6, Weber State - 0
Q. Tariq, what did you see on that fourth and four pass breakup?
TARIQ THOMPSON: They ran that play in the second quarter, they ran that same play, and it was like an in, I believe. So I knew he was going back to it, so I acted like I was going to the flat again and I just made a play.
Q. You made another pretty big interception, obviously. What did you see on that play?
TARIQ THOMPSON: They were in like a fake bubble screen and we got pressure on him so he threw it really high, so it gave me a chance to go get it.
Q. Does it feel a little bit better, because I remember you telling us a few weeks ago that you wanted to get some more interceptions and earlier in the game I saw you had both hands, wasn't really able to corral some of these picks, but you finally got one, so how did that feel?
TARIQ THOMPSON: It felt great getting them, but I got to capitalize on the other opportunities and I know I can, so it's something I got to continue to improve on.
Q. Ryan, you talk about the spread offense. How did it feel facing another team?
RYAN AGNEW: It was different. You don't really know what it's like until you got out there against another opponent. And give credit to Weber State, they came in and threw the kitchen sink at us. They had a great defense, had great game plan, and we were lucky to get out there with a win. If it wasn't for these guys, DJ and Tariq, we wouldn't have got the win, but we got a lot of work to do and we're excited for it .
Q. Dwayne, what's it like being there? You got a second start, trying to make some hits, go out there, getting a lot of time, I think you led your team in tackles, I'm not sure, but what is it like to make plays for your team?
DWAYNE JOHNSON JR: I mean, coming from, this is my fourth year, you had guys like Na'im McGee in front of me, Parker Baldwin, I've seen Kyahva make tackles, you've seen Calvin Munson. It's just, like, to have a game like that and be, like, recognized like them, I feel like that's everything. Those are big names in the program and I'm just like happy to have one game like that. Hopefully we can keep going and keep that flowing.
Q. Ryan, what do you think some things you can work on going to the UCLA game and the spread offense are that you can take away from what didn't go right this game?
RYAN AGNEW: We just got to do better recognizing coverage, winning one-on-one matchups, taking advantage when they give us opportunities. Like I said, winning those one-and-one matchups, if they're going to play man-to-man, I got to put the ball on the money and the receiver's got to make the catch. The O line's got to block perfectly because they're doing everything they could to stop us, so give credit to them, but we're going to work our tail off this week and get better.
Q. How much did you work on scrambling in the off-season because it seemed to have paid off?
RYAN AGNEW: You don't work on that. That's kind of, that's on the fly type of move, you just have to do that when the time comes. You can't work scenarios like that.
Q. Ryan, there was that one play, I think the third down conversion on the way to that second field goal. You were scrambling to your right, looked like that play was going nowhere, but you throw across the field, I think you hit either Parker or Bellinger?
RYAN AGNEW: I think I hit Bellinger on that one. I think we we're going to look back on film and it's going to be, like, don't do that again. It's cool when it happens, and it works out for you, but if it doesn't, it's a lot worse.
Q. Dwayne, you were all over the field today. What are some aspects of your play that you want to take into next week going to the Rose Bowl?
DWAYNE JOHNSON JR: You said it, be all over the field. I just want to play fast, play hard, play physical and just make plays.
Q. Ryan, can I get your thoughts on Matt Araiza and his performance.
RYAN AGNEW: Stud. Absolute stud. First time getting a start, kicking, going two for two and then having touchbacks. I mean, you can't ask more out of a kicker. And if we give that guy an opportunity, I am trusting him fully he's going to make the kick for us.
Q. How about Brandon too?
RYAN AGNEW: That's huge. It goes unnoticed, like, the kicking game goes unnoticed. Defensive, obviously, had a great night, but I think the special teams did a great job too. Like you said, Heicklen and Matt Araiza doing his job. If Heicklen doesn't have those great punts, it doesn't make it easier for the defense. So we're very lucky to have Heicklen and Araiza tonight. If it wasn't for those two guys it could have been a different story.
Q. (No microphone.)
TARIQ THOMPSON: It made me angry. I got to capitalize on opportunities like that. I know I can, so just something I got to keep working on. Just attack the ball better, I guess.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT