SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 20, 2018
John Baron II
Tariq Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








San Jose State - 13, San Diego State - 16
Q. Are you feeling like a warrior tonight?
TARIQ THOMPSON: I feel like it was a great game for them.  We didn't play to our potential.  I believe that we didn't come with the same intensity that we should come with every day and we just got to play better as a unit:  Offense, defense, special teams.
Q. Speaking of special teams, walk us through the game winner there.
JOHN BARON II: What do you want to know?
Q. High drama hitting the crossbar.  What did you think was going to happen?
JOHN BARON II: I just wanted to hit it clean.  Give the ball a chance to go, and I hit it pretty well.  Brandon and Turner got a perfect snap and hold off, so they made it pretty easy to just hit the ball well and luckily it went in.
Q. Is there any sense of being able to get the win, even after maybe not playing your best football?  Does that give you any kind of feeling after a game?
JOHN BARON II: You got it.
TARIQ THOMPSON: Every win is a good win.  I believe that.  Even though we didn't play to our potential, any win is good for our team.  Our goal is to win 22 and today was a step closer to that.
Q. Anything about San Jose a sort of surprise you?  A lot of people might have chalked this up to a walk over and clearly that wasn't the case.
TARIQ THOMPSON: I believe they are a great team.  They have just been having a rough patch.  They can't figure it out right now but credit to them, they play hard every game.  We just have to play better.  At the end of the day, it's on us.
Q. Is that the tougher end to kick into?
JOHN BARON II: Yes, sir.
Q. And why is that?
JOHN BARON II: There's usually a little wind tunnel.  The way the design of the stadium is usually a little bit of wind that comes through that way, so you always have like a little bit of a breeze in your face.
Q. What was the conversation this time?
JOHN BARON II: He asked me if I could make it and I said, "How far is it?"
And he said "50."
I was like, "Let's go do it," and that was it.
Q. He said 50.  That means he was a yard off again.
JOHN BARON II: Yeah, yeah.  He just wants me to kick it I think.
Q. What is it about this team and these kind of frantic finishes?
TARIQ THOMPSON: I feel like we just haven't played to our best defensively.  We've been giving teams too much yards passing.  I mean, our run defense is doing pretty well this year.
Offensively, I mean, we've just got to make plays.  We just haven't got it together yet.
Q. Since they are so close in the fourth quarter, is there a calmness that comes over you guys in that time?
TARIQ THOMPSON: You're not really calm when any play can win the game.  Everybody is used to that moment now.  Like the game with Boise, we just have to figure out a way to win and that's what we've been doing the last couple games.
Q. You guys are going to play, right now, eligible for your ninth straight Bowl game.  Is it hard to imagine the program wasn't 11 straight years without having gone to a Bowl game, and what does it say about the program now?
JOHN BARON II: It's always a great accomplishment whenever you get to qualify to be in a Bowl game or become Bowl eligible.  We are not built around that.  Our program isn't built around that.  We've never -- that's never been our goal.  Our goal is to win 22.
So for us, it's obviously a great accomplishment and we're proud of ourselves, but we've got a whole lot more work to do.
Q. Can you speak to that a little bit and how much pride there is in this program to keep that kind of history going forward?
TARIQ THOMPSON: It's really cool.  I mean, just looking across the nation seeing not too many teams have done what we've done in the last nine years.  It's just awesome to be part of it, and it's a winning tradition that I want to keep going for as long as I can.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT