NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 10, 2010
Phil Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Los Angeles Lakers 89
  Boston Celtics  96

 PHIL JACKSON: Before you start asking questions, I just want to say they really stepped on it in the fourth quarter. We seemed to not be able to stop the momentum of their game. Their bench outplayed us in that sequence, and even with all that, you know, at the end of the game we had our shot at it and couldn't contain what we had to do. 

 Q. Could you talk about the defensive strategy against Glen Davis. It seemed like he was having his way, and then when Nate Robinson got in there, he seemed to also have his way. What was the strategy in stopping those guys? 
 PHIL JACKSON: No, I don't want to talk about that. 

 Q. Tony Allen really wasn't a big factor in 2008 for this team, and in the second half he was kind of put on Kobe and seemed to have more success than Ray Allen. Can you talk about how effective he is against guarding Kobe. 
 PHIL JACKSON: Yeah, I think he steps on his right hand really well, makes him go left and keeps on the floor instead of getting up in the pump fakes. He does a good job at that. 
 I thought the fact that we didn't get good bench production, we had to play our starters, you know, really tired, our players towards the end of that game, and we were playing some pretty tired players out there. 

 Q. Talk about Kobe scored a lot of points, but how do you feel about the rest of the production from your offense? 
 PHIL JACKSON: Well, you know, you could tell we got a little bit desperate there. I thought Lamar was going to kind of sit this one out. He wasn't really having success, and I thought the scoring Davis did at the other end of the floor affected his game, affected Lamar's game. Then he got going, he got productive a little bit in the fourth quarter. Pau did a good job during the course of the game. He got a pretty good game. And obviously Fish was taken out of the game by foul situation. So we missed his game a little bit tonight. 

 Q. What's going on with Bynum right now? And how did it hurt you not being able to depend on him?
 PHIL JACKSON: It bothered us in the second half not having Andrew be able to come out and play the start of the second half. He tried a couple minutes, but it just wasn't there for him. We're glad we have a couple days off and we can kind of get him back hopefully in position where he can help us out again. 

 Q. They had the rebounding advantage tonight, 41-34, and each team that has had the rebounding advantage in each game has won that game. Is that a statistical oddity or indicative of what we're going to see the rest of the series?
 PHIL JACKSON: No, I really think that it's going to be a factor, that and turnovers. Those are keys to games. Second-chance points, fast-break points tonight. We talked about it at halftime. We couldn't seem to stem the tide. They knocked balls free more than anything else or they got it back out of bounds or whatever. So I was disappointed our guys can't secure the rebounds, didn't capture the rebounds. We talked about that tonight. We shot better than they did, but that didn't make the difference in the game. The difference in the game was chances. They had more chances than we did. 

 Q. You've seen this team in a lot of different situations in different places through the years. Where is their composure level now heading towards the next game? And is it strange to see this team as the grounded team of the two?
 PHIL JACKSON: Our team, yeah. They're pretty emotional. They had their backs against the wall tonight, and they played desperate, and they got away with it. We let that happen, but I thought overdribbling the ball, not moving the ball, not playing at the same level with the composure that we have to play with. I thought their animation and their activity level, you know, affected us. Guys wanted to get back into it with them a couple times. Nate Robinson and the chatter that went back and forth there, and I thought we called -- every time we got guys composed a little bit, we got back into the game but we couldn't get the momentum back.

 Q. And the composure level, is it possible since you guys have played with such good focus, in a way you can be too composed and not enough emotion?
 PHIL JACKSON: No, I don't agree with that. I think that, you know, you can still play with that cool head, but you have to meet the physical activity, and that's what their animation, I think. Davis, Robinson gave us a little bit of that activity level that we didn't meet and match. 

 Q. Kobe had the 33, but half of his shots were three-pointers. He had the seven turnovers. Do you think that he was himself out there today? 
 PHIL JACKSON: He was tired. You know, physically I thought he had to work too hard in the course of the game, and he couldn't finish it out the way he wanted to finish it out. That's part of what happened. I thought the match-ups in the game kind of dictated those terms, and we'll have to do something different the next game to get him off the floor and keep him ready for that fourth quarter. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT