NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 9, 2010
Phil Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What is the latest on Bynum's knee? You said last night he'd be questionable for Thursday. Do you see him playing today?  
 PHIL JACKSON: We won't be able to have any kind of answer on that until tomorrow. He'll go through the process he goes through, which tries to take some of the swelling down and alleviate some of the discomfort, and then he'll have some recovery time between now and then, 36 hours or whatever it is. So there's still an opportunity for that to happen.   
  
  Q. Are you optimistic?  
 PHIL JACKSON: Yeah, I am. He's been able to overcome those odds almost all the way through these playoffs, ever since Oklahoma. So we're really optimistic that he'll be able to find a way to do that.   
  
  Q. I know Kobe is a trouper, are you concerned at all about his minutes? Would you like to reduce them, or are you fine him playing 40-plus at this point?   
 PHIL JACKSON: Well, no. You know, I'm not fine with it, but it is what it has to be at this time, right now. We had some situations last night that prevailed where they went small with Allen and Allen and Rondo and Robinson at times, where we needed that three-guard lineup, and you know, Kobe got very little rest in the process. He got a couple seconds here and there and played long minutes, and I thought he tired in the fourth quarter to be honest with you. But he's the kind of guy that drives himself through that.  
  
  Q. His 10 for 29, he just missed good shots?  
 PHIL JACKSON: They had a body on him a lot of times. I thought Tony Allen defended him well, I thought Ray did a good job on him, too. Second half I thought he got a little bit aggressive to start the half with and had a couple shots that might have been early too quick, didn't let the offense happen a little bit, and was one passing up, but we need to have more happening than that.  
  
  Q. That two-man game that Kobe and Derek were running last night, is that a wrinkle of the triangle offense or some of their improvise drawn up on their own?  
 PHIL JACKSON: No, it's just the most basic format we have, based on strong-side fill and get the ball moving and what happens. But in the process of a couple actions that went on prior to that, they recommended that this is a place where we can go that'll make a difference. They don't want to come off Kobe to have to deal with it.   
 So, you know, we can take advantage of this, and we did.  
  
  Q. Is that something that you empower the players to be able to come to you and suggest that type of thing?   
 PHIL JACKSON: It's really their responsibility, it's not even empowering. It's their responsibility to understand how they're being played inside and what we do and recommend those things and make the adjustments on court. That's what they're to do, the veterans.   
  
  Q. There was a lot of use of replay last night and it came up in the first game, too. You guys watch film, too, so you can get your own sense of whether things get called right or wrong, but how are you feeling about whether it's been applied well so far? And is it justified that this has been a good use of it?   
 PHIL JACKSON: Well, you know, the unfortunate part about that, obviously, is that if it's just the ball going out of somebody's hands and there hasn't been a foul called, then obviously it just applies to one particular part of the play, whereas in the rebound, the free-throw rebound that Lamar lost, Rondo grabbed his arm and pulled his arm off the ball. So you know, they can't make that adjustment with the replay, but it's a foul after they haven't called it.   
 You're going to face that if the rule -- if you're just going to use videotape one way. Those are the things that we questioned immediately when they brought in the rule is you're going to see a lot of things happening now on this type of thing where if it's a three-point play, a guy might have stepped out of bounds and no one saw it and he comes back in and now you're looking at is it a three-point shot or not, and you miss the fact that he stepped out of bounds, what are you going to do to rectify the fact the officials missed a call?   
 So they made the decision that we can't do that, we can't make the adjustment on the call according to a foul or other things that happened prior to the play that we're looking at. So those are things I think the Rules Committee will have to discuss during the off-season, and we'll come back and probably refine it and tune it up a little bit better.  
  
  Q. There was a point last night where Doc called a time-out and that was what gave you the opportunity to ask them to possibly review the one. Would you have called a time-out anyway to take the opportunity or did Doc kind of do you a favor there?  
 PHIL JACKSON: You know, I didn't know he called a time-out. I thought when I went down to question Danny Crawford about it that he had called for the replay to be called, which is a time-out in itself. But Doc also called a time-out, so he was charged with it.   
  
  Q. I've got two questions if you'd indulge me: Would you agree with the characterization that Games 1 and 2 were called very tightly but Game 3 was more like a game out of the 2008 Finals?  
 PHIL JACKSON: I don't know if I'd go so far to say that. I think there was more play. Obviously with 48 free throws as opposed to what did we have, 70 in the prior two games? That obviously says it right in the numbers. But I thought the players adjusted better on the floor. Now, obviously there are some things with Ron Artest getting in foul situations and Paul Pierce getting in the foul situations and it changed some of the complexity of the game situation for them last night. For us it didn't make that big of a difference because Ron isn't one of our top scorers.   
 But that part of it, did they call it too tight on that end of it? I don't know. I mean, Doc would have to discuss that with you in that regard.   
 What's your second question?   
  
  Q. Doc has made a couple of allusions to you lodging some kind of a complaint against the officiating after Games 1 or 2. Are you aware of having done so?  
 PHIL JACKSON: No, I haven't. To say that in respect, the League also elicits us to itemize things that we wish to be discussed or to be reviewed, be it like that play that happened with Rondo last night where he pulled Lamar's hand off the ball. That would have been something we possibly would have sent in and said, this happened on the play prior to that when Lamar was down at the offensive end of the court. Also, where he got the ball stripped and it went off him out of bounds and they all tumbled to the floor. That also was a situation which could have been a foul situation easily called, too, on that.   
 So you know, those are things that they elicit our -- if they're continual things, which could be offensive screens that are moving picks, violations that aren't being looked at or called, and we have lodged, I think, four consecutive for Games 1 and 2.   
  
  Q. But aside from doing those things through channels, are you aware of --  
 PHIL JACKSON: I don't even have anything to do with it. Our film crew usually spots them and sets them up and they look at them from a different part of the organization than myself and send them in.  
  
  Q. Are you aware of having said anything publicly?   
 PHIL JACKSON: Simply the fact that in Game No. 2, people asked us how Allen got so open, and I mentioned the fact that he was able to go both ways by walking Fish into a position where he was taken off balance, and so he couldn't hold his ground, he had to give ground because he was getting called for a foul, and then Doc had -- I mean, Allen had either way to go off the screens, and we wanted to go one direction and we wanted to hold that position. We wanted to be able to have a defensive position, allow the defensive player and offensive player, not dislodge the defensive player, which is part of the rules. Is that understood? Okay. And I think we got that point across last night, and Fish was called for one of those fouls in the early part of the game, but he wasn't called for them later.   
  
  Q. The relationship between Kobe and Fish, I don't know, is it unique? What have you observed between the two of them who have been in the league for so long and have attained so much?   
 PHIL JACKSON: Well, it's not -- from my standpoint it's not unusual for players that have played together for a long duration of time and come through a variety of situations in the course of their careers to have a relationship, especially when you have winning and positive results. You know, we had multiple relations with groups of guys in the early decade with Rick Fox and Robert Horry and that crew of guys, and these two guys have lasted -- similar to Pippen and Jordan in those Bulls' days.   
 So they have a wonderful relationship, not only in communication but also in knowing how to play with each other in a way that's supportive and also very team-oriented.   
  
  Q. Luke gave you some pretty important minutes last night in relief of Ron. Is that a match-up, that defensive match-up against Paul Pierce, is that something you've gotten comfortable with as this series has gone on?   
 PHIL JACKSON: Well, you know, Luke had an opportunity to play a considerable amount of minutes in the '08 series. So Luke had a number of opportunities to play Paul Pierce, and actually was the recipient of a lot of scoring opportunities in Game No. 4 I believe it was in Los Angeles.   
 So you know, we know he can play him. We also know that there's been some times that he has had a lot of difficulty playing him. But from our situation, it's the best match-up that we have after Ron is out there.  
  
  Q. Two years ago people said this team wasn't tough enough in this round, couldn't play good enough defense. Was last night the latest testimony that this team can play pretty solid defense?   
 PHIL JACKSON: Yes. I think that our defense was good. I mean, obviously Garnett was a guy that we had trouble stopping last night. We didn't figure that part of it out. But we had, I thought, a pretty good handle on what we wanted to get accomplished as a team defensively, and I thought our rebounding and our inside game was really good outside, blocking shots and recovering for each other.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT