NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 8, 2010
Phil Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Do you have a read an your squad today?
 PHIL JACKSON: Yeah, they're ready.

 Q. They are ready?
 PHIL JACKSON: Yeah.

 Q. Would you have told us differently if they weren't?
 PHIL JACKSON: Probably not, but they're ready. (Laughter). 

 Q. What are your thoughts on a college coach potentially getting a $6 million contract?
 PHIL JACKSON: Good for him. Way to go. (Laughter). 

 Q. Is there anything you can see why college coaches haven't been successful at this level? 
 PHIL JACKSON: It's not an easy job, and you know, when it's 200 some days, depending on how far you go into the playoffs, it's pretty arduous task as far as dealing with stars of all ranges coming to the NBA and dealing with them and team form that has to go on for 82 games. It's a long March, and that gets difficult.
 The game itself, 82 games is a big difference from 30 or whatever you coach in college. It's an arduous task.

 Q. You went a little long with the shootaround today. Why was that? 
 PHIL JACKSON: You know, it was early in the morning, 9:00 in the morning when we got here LA time, so we did some stretching and some -- just some minor things to kind of get our brains stretched, and then we got out on the court and did some work very slowly and took our time today because it's a long wait between afternoon shootaround and the game time at 9:00.

 Q. Do you think these guys will be attuned, accustomed to the time change? Practice starts pretty early tomorrow. 
 PHIL JACKSON: They have the first one, I think, and we have the second one if I'm not mistaken. I think it flip-flops at the other end of the coast if I'm not mistaken. But you probably know better than I do, so I'll defer to you. If it is, we probably won't practice anyway. We'll just come for the media session. (Laughter).

 Q. Looking back were your guys mentally ready for Game 2? If it's possible, did they take Game 2 lightly?
 PHIL JACKSON: No, not at all. There wasn't any sense of that at all. I think that the two-day break between, they had a little bit of -- like I said before, it was an opportunity for the Celtics to really make some changes and some adjustments. It wasn't on the fly, it was a two-day period. And when you're sitting on the other end you're waiting to see what's going to go on and what we want to do, and their adjustments were better than ours. We didn't meet what they were going to do, and they beat us to the punch.

 Q. Your team was unpredictable at times during the year and you made sure you got through to them at all times. Now we'll find out whether they're a championship team of that caliber. Do you know yet or are you still curious?
 PHIL JACKSON: Well, this is a game in which you have to make adjustments on the fly in the ballgame. It's not you come out and run X, Y, Z and get it accomplished. You have to be able to read the defense and make adjustments on the fly. It's very important that guys are capable of doing that. We call them automatics, but it's really important that they have to do that. So we'll see. Like I tell them, this is really the test, The Finals.

 Q. But do you know the answer yet? You've been around a long time. 
 PHIL JACKSON: You'll see it in the game. The answer is there in the pudding, right? 

 Q. Yeah, but I've got an early deadline. It would help if you could give me a tip. 
 PHIL JACKSON: I can't help you. 

 Q. With the quick turnaround does that pose any difficulty for Andrew? And do you have to watch him to make sure he's moving okay?
 PHIL JACKSON: Yes, I certainly will. Hopefully we can get him in and out of the game in the first half, less time and a little earlier time for Lamar to give him an opportunity to perform anyway. 

 Q. I'm wondering how much just the one day, the travel day in between these games will affect your use of Bynum. 
 PHIL JACKSON: Yeah, that was the question that was asked down here. You probably didn't hear that. 
 We'll watch him closely, try and get him in and out of the game early and see how he does and it'll be a good opportunity for Lamar get into the game. He's been coming into the game probably two, three minutes later than usual, and I think that affected him a little bit.

 Q. You lost home-court advantage. What do you feel going into this?
 PHIL JACKSON: Well, I think the early momentum is what we're going to have to check, that's what's important. Come out and absorb the crowd energy and whatever that fuels into the game and get into the game and go from there. Once that's over and the adrenaline is burned you see what goes on in the game, and that's the adjustments you make as a team. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT