NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 6, 2010
Phil Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Boston Celtics  103
  Los Angeles Lakers  94 
   
  Q. The execution down the stretch, offensively seemed -- the team seemed to just hit a wall. Can you talk about that?  
 PHIL JACKSON: Yes, we had some turnovers. One of them started out kind of from an offensive foul, Drew got a call for an offensive foul. I still don't know about that one. That was dubious. But he set a pick that bounced off it. Ron tried to force the ball into Pau Gasol and threw the ball away, and then we had another sequence of -- I don't remember exactly what the turnover was, but that kind of set them off and set the game off and turned it around in that sequence.   
 We had a little lead right at the end, and we didn't do our job; they did.  
  
  Q. Is that just execution or focus or they just outplayed you?  
 PHIL JACKSON: Well, I think their execution was better. They had second-chance opportunities in that sequence, and that was really the difference in the ballgame.   
  
  Q. Obviously you don't get that high with one win. I would assume you're going to keep things even keel. What does it mean to potentially lose the home-court? And talk about Kobe trying in foul trouble. How did that hinder his game?  
 PHIL JACKSON: Yeah, I wasn't happy with those foul calls. Those were unusual calls. But he tried to play aggressively. Got called for it. Tried to limit his game a little bit because they were coming at -- taking charges, and it really changed the complexity of this ballgame. They did a good job on him defensively, no doubt about that. I have to tip my hat off to them about that. Those were things that we struggled with in the course of the game obviously.   
 Our big guys played great, Bynum and Pau. We didn't get the ball often enough to them or in good enough position many times, and a lot of our shooting outside was not that well.   
  
  Q. Losing the home-court?  
 PHIL JACKSON: Well, in a sequence like this there's no doubt it's a blow to us to lose the home-court, but we anticipated this might happen, and we're just going to have to go pick it up.   
  
  Q. What's going on with Lamar? He's had two very ineffective games.   
 PHIL JACKSON: Again, my fault. He got, bang-bang, two fouls immediately, and I turned to my crew and said, do you think he can play through this? And as I was talking to them, he got his third foul. So obviously he couldn't play through that sequence. He just basically got in the ballgame and got those three fouls and it really took him out of the ballgame. That's a bit unfortunate for him. He'll get a chance later on in this series to redeem himself.  
  
  Q. What about Ron, too? He was 1 for 10, had a couple crazy shots.   
 PHIL JACKSON: Ron played one of those flip-flop games tonight, a little bit different. Defensively Paul Pierce is 2 for 11, Ron Artest 1 for 10. I don't know, it wasn't the best battle out there, but obviously Paul's team won, and that's the difference.   
  
  Q. Does Ron get a little lost out there offensively? Is it the stage? Is it the pressure? There was one play towards the end where he ran around for about ten seconds and threw up a three.   
 PHIL JACKSON: It's one of the more unusual sequences I've ever witnessed.   
 You know, he's just trying to redeem himself. He's trying to get himself involved in the game and trying to redeem himself for I think he made a bad pass earlier in the sequence.  
  
  Q. Is that just him trying to redeem himself? But this is a pretty big stage to be doing that at that particular moment.   
 PHIL JACKSON: Sure, very good observation.  
  
  Q. Have you had a conversation with him about whether he needs to go that route?   
 PHIL JACKSON: Yeah, sure, I'll have a conversation with him.   
  
  Q. What kind of adjustment do you make on Ray Allen and Rajon Rondo?   
 PHIL JACKSON: Well, you know, when they take away any bumps, when Fish is trying to make him divert his path and they don't allow him to do that, they call fouls on Fish and that really gives him an opportunity to take whatever route he wants to make off the pickers. That really makes it very difficult. We just have to adjust to the ballgame to what the referees are going to call. Are they going to allow us to take direct line cuts away from him so he has to divert his route, and call on Fish and get a foul called on Fisher? That makes for a totally different type of ballgame. Then Fish has to give the routes that he wants to run in and then he's got to play from behind all the time. That's an adjustment we all need to make in the course of this series.   
 He had a great game.  
  
  Q. Can you just discuss the overall impact of Rondo on this game.   
 PHIL JACKSON: You know, Rondo's offensive rebounds, some little things he did out there. Really a difference maker in the second half. The first half was obviously Ray's shooting that got them going, got them in the lead. Second half Rondo had some key plays there that changed the course of the game.   
  
  Q. It sounds like you want to spend some money. Did you have trouble with the refereeing tonight?   
 PHIL JACKSON: It's going to be that way from game to game, and I think a lot of it is about who comes out aggressively and does the right thing out there at the very start of the ballgame.   
  
  Q. You talked about Lamar's game, but what does it do to the rest of the roster, the rest of the rotation when you get so little from him in the course of a game?   
 PHIL JACKSON: Well, you know, it just changes up where we place people on the floor. Obviously it takes Pau from the wing and puts him into the post. Takes Kobe from guard and puts him into the wing. It just changes how we play the game a lot and gives opportunities that are a little different, a myriad of activities that we run in our offensive sets. It gives us a little more of a variety, and that's something that's tough for teams to adjust to.   
  
  Q. Andrew had a big night tonight. Are you hoping or expecting Andrew to have the same type of impact in Boston?   
 PHIL JACKSON: Well, he had two days between games. I thought he recovered really well off of some swelling that he had on that knee, and we were able to -- trainers were able to get that down and back in order and he was able to play, I think, great -- as good a physical shape as he could possibly be in at this time of the year, and we were pleased with that. I was just pleased that he could play 35 minutes plus. That was a big part of that effort that he gave us tonight.   
  
  Q. Can you just talk about the defense, how the type of defense Boston was trying to apply on Kobe tonight.   
 PHIL JACKSON: Well, they got on him and made him go left all the time. They were not letting him come back to his right hand, shoving him to the left and then going to help when he started to push the ball. That changed things up for him. He still figured it out pretty well towards the end but couldn't complete it.   
  
  Q. How big was that time-out call that Doc made? And have you ever seen a coach fly out to the free-throw line?  
 PHIL JACKSON: I don't know if you can do that or not. I don't think that's legal to get on the floor. I think coaches have to stay on the sideline. They're not supposed to be on the floor. It's like he was shot out of a starter's block. (Laughter).   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT