NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 22, 2010
Phil Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How close are you going to pay attention to Game 3 of the Eastern Conference Finals tonight?  
 COACH JACKSON: We'll watch it as a coaching staff. I mentioned to the players what time the game starts. I haven't asked them to look at anything but the last game that Phoenix had against San Antonio. That it might be the last opportunity they get a chance to watch them. I said tonight that, this morning, that tonight might be one of the chances they get to watch the Boston team play, or Orlando, whatever.  
  
  Q. What do you look for when you guys are watching the game?   
 COACH JACKSON: Everything. First of all, you look for the officials, who is officiating the game. (Laughter) it's just what you do. You just look at it. And then you watch what the demeanor of the game's going to be, how it's going to start out, who is going to run what plays to start off the game, and go from there.  
  
  Q. You guys, because how they stretched the playoffs here, you haven't lost in almost a month. Is there a different confidence in this eight-game winning streak compared to, say, in December when it's 10 or 11 you guys won in a row?   
 COACH JACKSON: Those games came on the heels of each other, it felt like, in the distance between these games. Make it feel like we've got to regenerate energy all the time. So it is different.  
  
  Q. The stereotype is one of the difference between playing on the home and the road is that there's a big difference between the way the benches play. Why does that happen that way that the benches play better at home?  
 COACH JACKSON: I think it's comfort level, just the comfort of the court, knowing the court and coming in and having your fans want you to do well and supporting you. I think those things all make a difference to players.  
  
  Q. Along those lines, are you expecting more out of Phoenix's bench; a guy like Frye who has been struggling so much?  
 COACH JACKSON: I think it will help the teams. We have to do what we can do to eliminate some of that stuff. But Barbosa has had some good moments out there. And I thought in the first game Dragic looked like he played well, didn't get as much opportunity in the second. Dudley broke out in the second game. So they've had some bench stuff.   
 Amundson made a difference in the second quarter in the game the other night. So they've had some activity in which they can go home and feel pretty good about how they played.  
  
  Q. What have you guys learned here in the last three days: Has it been good for healing up, or has it been bad for kind of sitting around since you won the first two?  
 COACH JACKSON: Well, we had an opportunity to work on the things we didn't do well. Hopefully we can be better defensively as a team. We're not totally pleased with how we played defense, the number of occasions in the third quarter, fourth quarter, and think that we can do a better job.  
  
  Q. Good for the rest?   
 COACH JACKSON: Yeah, I think so. Most of the players worked hard. Guys worked off hours to work on their game.   
 So there were a number of guys who were trying to improve their own position and their own game. As a team, I thought we did some pretty good things here out. Yesterday was a pretty long video session. So it wasn't as intense a practice as I'd like. But today was much better.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT