NBA FINALS: MAGIC v LAKERS
June 14, 2009
Kobe Bryant
Phil Jackson
David Stern
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 STUART SCOTT: Here to present the Larry O'Brien Trophy to Los Angeles Lakers is NBA Commissioner David Stern. Representing Laker ownership and Dr. Jerry Buss, his sons Joey and Jesse. 
 COMMISSIONER DAVID STERN: Congratulations to the Orlando Magic, a worthy Eastern Conference champion. But the night and the championship belong to the Los Angeles Lakers, their 15th. Congratulations to Dr. Jerry Buss and the Buss family, to the entire Laker organization, of course to the Laker players, to the coaching staffs, congratulations Phil Jackson on your 10th, and to the great fans of Los Angeles. Here comes the Larry O'Brien Trophy to the 2009 NBA champion Los Angeles Lakers. 
 STUART SCOTT: 30 trips to the NBA Finals for the Lakers, 15 NBA championships. What does this one mean to the family? 
 JOE BUSS: This one means a lot. The fans stuck with us through thick and thin. This is the 15th one that we have as a family. We have two more to go to meet Boston Celtics, and I just want to reiterate that none of this would be possible without the Los Angeles Laker fans here tonight and back in Los Angeles. Now it's time to bring this trophy back to Los Angeles and hang up another banner. 
 STUART SCOTT: Congratulations, Phil. More NBA championships as a coach now than any man ever. When the clock went to triple zeroes, what's the first thing that went through your mind? 
 PHIL JACKSON: It's sort of surreal to watch this thing count down, see these guys out on the floor. They did such a great job in the second half, actually from the middle of the second quarter bringing this thing home.
 STUART SCOTT: How did you coach this team differently than the first three times you won the championships in the Lakers? 
 PHIL JACKSON: Well, that teams had to learn. This team has been a learned team, their experience.
 STUART SCOTT: You once described your relationship with the late great Red Auerbach as competitive. You've now passed him on the all-time championships as a coach for ten. What does that achievement mean to you? 
 PHIL JACKSON: I'll smoke a cigar tonight in memory of Red. He was a great guy. I'll smoke a cigar in memory of him.
 STUART SCOTT: I see the hat with the Roman numeral ten. 
 PHIL JACKSON: It's from my kids. My family really gave me great support. 
 STUART SCOTT: 10 NBA championships is more than any man ever. Now back to present the NBA Finals Most Valuable Player Award, Commissioner David Stern and Bill Russell. 
 COMMISSIONER DAVID STERN: We are honored to have with us tonight Bill Russell, who led the Boston Celtics to 11 championships in 13 years, the ultimate champion. We have named the MVP Trophy in his honor, and the MVP of the 2009 NBA Finals, who averaged 32 points plus, who averaged almost six rebounds and seven assists a game, Kobe Bryant.
 STUART SCOTT: Congratulations, Kobe Bryant, your fourth NBA championship. You go back to a year ago this time, the Boston Celtics beat you all, what was your focus from that moment to this moment? 
 KOBE BRYANT: Well, we knew we had to become a better defensive team consistently, better defensively, better on the boards. That series last year taught us, and we came back this year with a renewed focus.
 STUART SCOTT: Everybody, the critics, fans, media, we've all speculated why this title means something different than the other three. We don't want to speculate anymore. Why? 
 KOBE BRYANT: Just for the challenge of it. It's so tough to win a championship, to have to start over from scratch. We started over from scratch. Here we are again, and it really feels like a dream. It doesn't even feel real right now. It's unbelievable.
 STUART SCOTT: With a 1:12 you guys were up by 11. We saw you on the bench during a time-out and you were gnawing on your fingernails. What were you thinking then? 
 KOBE BRYANT: I just couldn't wait for the clock to go down. I was waiting and waiting and waiting for the time to expire so this moment could be here.
 STUART SCOTT: Really during the whole playoff run we've seen you at press conferences with short, clipped answers. You've had a scowl on your face. What does winning this mean for you? 
 KOBE BRYANT: This means everything. We've really worked so hard as a group. We sacrificed so much, we put in so much time, so much effort. It feels unbelievable. Came here with a group of guys that are like brothers to me and we can all enjoy this together.
 STUART SCOTT: How are you different as a man and a player than you were seven years ago? 
 KOBE BRYANT: I think you grow as a person, you grow as a man and try to figure out the best way to lead these guys.
 STUART SCOTT: I see you with your family. How are you going to celebrate tonight.
 KOBE BRYANT: Well, we'll probably let them have soda and we'll probably spill some champagne on them a little bit.
 STUART SCOTT: Congratulations to the Los Angeles Lakers. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT