NBA FINALS: MAGIC v LAKERS
June 9, 2009
Phil Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. The last 24 hours there's been a lot of talk about Pau touching the rim on that last-second regulation shot by Courtney Lee. Have you been listening to all the talk about that?
 PHIL JACKSON: No. Is there any talk about Howard going through the rim and blocking the shot of Pau's earlier in the ballgame? I don't think anybody has mentioned that one. 
 Yeah, he got his hand caught in the rim in that one, no doubt about it.

 Q. Pau did?
 PHIL JACKSON: Pau did, yes.

 Q. Should that have been a goaltending?
 PHIL JACKSON: Basket interference according to the rules, yeah. 

 Q. With the point guard rotations you've been bringing Shannon in a lot. Just in the fourth quarter that's been his first run in a few games. Is that something specifically you like from that or just how it's worked out?
 PHIL JACKSON: Just giving them both a little feel for the game. Jordan can energize us with his speed, quickness, his offensive ability out there. Shannon a little more in the defensive aspect of the game. 

 Q. I want to make sure I understood correctly, you think Pau was goaltending on the last play of regulation?
 PHIL JACKSON: It's called basket interference is what it's called. Even if you hit the net supposedly in the process that's part of it, but that rule is kind of archaic. It isn't called in this day and age as much, but when we were in high school -- I know you're a little older than I am, but when we were in high school that was something a high school ref might call, basket interference. 

 Q. The other part of that rule, though, is supposedly whether he rattled the rim or made the ball have a different bounce. Do you think it met that criteria?
 PHIL JACKSON: He didn't interfere with the shot basically. That was not something that destroyed the shot. 

 Q. Can you imagine a game ending on a goaltending call? Have you ever seen that, heard of that on any level, anywhere? 
 PHIL JACKSON: I'm sure it's happened, but I haven't seen it. We had one situation very similar to that against the Vancouver Grizzlies a few years ago, and it was not called. 

 Q. So you feel like the correct call was made? 
 PHIL JACKSON: According to the rules it was not. It wasn't made. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT