NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2009
Phil Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   COACH JACKSON: I told Pau that he would play but I'm not going to play him extended minutes. I have been playing him 40-plus minutes a game for the last six, seven games since Andrew Bynum has gone down there. Before that we were measuring out his minutes quite well. 
 So he'll get a run on Sunday, but he is not going to run a long time.

 Q. They announced Michael today as a finalist for the Hall. What are the chances he makes it? 
 COACH JACKSON: Is there going to be a dissenting vote? 

 Q. It should be unanimous, right? 
 COACH JACKSON: It will be a unanimous selection, but it will be interesting -- the interesting thing will be are they able to use the Hall of Fame as the format for this guy going in or will they have to do it at another place or another city.

 Q. Where do you think it should be? 
 COACH JACKSON: I think -- when you go to Cooperstown, it is like a unique little town. Springfield is not a unique little town. It is an old industrial town. It is a little bit different.
 But the Hall of Fame is there, and that's where it has been established. For a program as big and as extensive as this, it will take a lot of effort.

 Q. How do you decide which championship ring to wear? 
 COACH JACKSON: I usually wear the last one we won in the playoffs. I have been wearing this same one from 2002 for a couple years now, three, four years. It is getting laborious to put that thing on.

 Q. What do some of the younger players see when they see your rings?
 COACH JACKSON: They never see them. 

 Q. Do you think you are the most elite team this year?
 COACH JACKSON: There are a number of elite teams this year. We know we are amongst them. As far as favorites, it depends on which side of the country you are on. Think I Boston and Cleveland have been favorites. We had a few teams out here in the West, Denver, San Antonio and ourselves that play really exceptional ball. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT