NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 12, 2010
Phil Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You talked a little bit yesterday about a little concern about maybe you guys look tired because they just were a little deeper. How much is that a concern going into the rest of the series? 
     PHIL JACKSON: It's every game has got the critical element to it, so it's really not a concern. You just have to do whatever it takes as a player. You know, we hope that we can come through and have a game where everybody gets an opportunity to play, we get some rest for guys, we get back in LA and have an opportunity to close this series out. 
     But at this point in the year when the end is in sight, you know, it makes it a lot easier. 

 Q. The obvious question, how is Andrew right now and will he play tomorrow?
     PHIL JACKSON: You know, I think we're still optimistic that he's going to give it a shot and see how he does. We have a day to work with him. He's had a day of therapy, and he can start getting some movement and maybe start activating himself tomorrow and get himself going.

 Q. The knee draining, was that something that had to be done?
     PHIL JACKSON: Yeah, you know, I think it's more of just trying to eliminate the swelling in a way in which -- rather than the body dissipating it, to try and help it out. It's not totally unusual, I guess, in these situations. 

 Q. Without Andrew, obviously the Celtics, their match-ups change entirely. You've got Perk guarding Pau. How do you combat that? Obviously Perk plays him a little more physically than the other guys in the lineup. 
     PHIL JACKSON: Yeah, he's got the ability to displace Pau even though that's not part of the standards of the game, but he does move him off the post. He has less mobility on the outside perhaps than Kevin does, and so Pau has to step out and use his speed and quickness as opposed to perhaps post-up position and size.

 Q. Do the Celtics do anything different against Kobe in the fourth quarter? And are you surprised he hasn't seemed to have the same kind of fourth quarters as he has earlier in the year?
     PHIL JACKSON: No, I think they've been consistent since Game 2. They like to get Tony Allen in there to make him really have to work, get a body on him. So you know, he's got -- I've got to find a little space and time for him to give him some rest in that situation so he can come back with renewed energy. But after he's played 30 plus minutes, to have that kind of energy to finish a game out is important to us, and we've got to get that back. 

 Q. What does Ron need to do better? 
     PHIL JACKSON: Shot, just his outside shot. He took the ball to the basket, got some offensive rebounds, I thought made some plays off of the dribble, and finding his teammates. He just has to find a shot and get consistent with it.

 Q. There were a couple moments where Kobe seemed to be really annoyed with him at times. I don't know why. Was it because he didn't make the right pass, or what was going on?
     PHIL JACKSON: It was probably recognition. Spacing and recognition. 

 Q. You've had a lot of success over your career coaching star-type players. The last three years or so Doc has had similar success. What are some of the challenges of coaching those kind of guys with egos and salaries and stuff like that?
     PHIL JACKSON: You know, I really don't like to talk about these things because I think it's just about a team game. Most of the players want to be treated alike, but everybody is different, and so you treat every player differently, the same. So if you have rules on the team, you try to keep them consistent so that everybody has to accordingly go by the rules that apply to everybody, whether it's practice time, practice situations. 
     Obviously depth of years played, amount of minutes a guy has had over his career, all those things weigh into decisions in how you treat a player at practice time and game time. Experience matters the most in this game more than likely. Some of the players with experience you rely on them to give you information and to have the information to know how to deal with a lot of situations. So there are privileges that go along with the honor, even though they have to themselves conform to what a team has to be and play like.
     Those are the important things, I think. Some stars are spokespersons, others are leaders by action and example, and some guys are good at motivating a team by talking. Those things have to be allowed to happen according to guys' personalities. A coach just has to be able to read a personality and employ what is the best aspect of that player or the given quality that that player has, be it a star or whatever he is. 

 Q. I know some years in the past you've recommended a book for the players. I was wondering if this year you had recommended one? And if so, what was the book? 
     PHIL JACKSON: You know, I handpick the books for the players, so they're individually selected. Some players that are new on the team I may give them a book about the offense or a book, something to do with our basketball team. But for players that I know, and I get to know players before I do that, I give them something that's -- information for them. Pau Gasol, I gave him a book about Barcelona, adventure story about Barcelona. Kobe Bryant, I gave him a book about my home state, where I grew up in eastern Montana. Derek Fisher, I gave him Soul On Ice. It's a book that made a big difference to me when I was a young man growing up in the '70s and the late '60s. So a variety of books depending on who people are and what I think they might be interested in reading. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT