NBA FINALS: LAKERS v CELTICS
June 8, 2008
Phil Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Phil, does anything speed up in terms of your decision-making during The Finals, like whether you think you need a time-out or whether you think you want to make a substitution? Do any of those things speed up because of the urgency?  
 COACH PHIL JACKSON: Yeah, I think there's a sense of urgency. Less time to allow a player to adjust sometimes. You see things going the other direction, you call time-out quicker.   
  
  Q. You've talked about Kobe's joy in being here. I think you used the word "giddy" or reportedly used the word "giddy." Can you talk about Kobe being here?  
 COACH PHIL JACKSON: Oh, I think that that was really noticeable in the presentation of the Western Conference trophy. I don't know if we have a name for that yet, but we're working on it anyway. It does have a name, doesn't it?   
 I thought he was very, very fun-loving in that situation. I think you really see the true nature of Kobe Bryant with his teammates.   
  
  Q. You talked about the rebounding margin in Game 1. Is that something specifically that you can, at this point, do you bother drilling or something like that or is that just something you remind them in film and hope for the best?  
 COACH PHIL JACKSON: Well, we just tell our players that you have to adjust the fact that they're going to come and meet you in the lane. They're going to be a hard jam and you have to brace yourself for that. We were pretty good against Utah, and obviously Utah came very hard. It's a team that does go over the backs and rebounds. We got a lot of foul calls in that series, also, on Boozer and other guys coming over the backs. But this doesn't look like they're going to get the calls, so we're going to have to brace and do a little better job.  
  
  Q. Do you think Kobe needs to go to the hoop more instead of settling for the jump shots, maybe to go for the free-throw line a little bit more in than he did in Game 1 to be successful tonight?  
 COACH PHIL JACKSON: That's the product of the Celtics' defense. They're putting two people between him and the ball and the basket all the time. They led the league in charges this year. We have to be careful with that. We have to know that aspect of their game and honor that. You either dish the ball or take those shots, or if you can get there, get there.  
  
  Q. How much discussion, either good or bad, has there been among the coaching staff and the players about the Boston injuries?  
 COACH PHIL JACKSON: None. We haven't discussed it at all. We discussed the wheelchair a little bit, but that's the only thing I think that was discussed (laughter).   
  
  Q. How did that go?  
 COACH PHIL JACKSON: Oh, that was a follow-up question?   
  
  Q. Yes (laughter).   
 COACH PHIL JACKSON: First time I think we've ever seen it. I think that was a comment that was made.   
  
  Q. Did you feel that you may have lost your edge a little bit with the time delay? You were playing so well coming into The Finals.   
 COACH PHIL JACKSON: Shooting-wise I think sometimes that comes and goes, and a lot of times that's evident in the first game if you sat for a week like we did. But I thought our shooting in the first half was -- it was there; we shot 51 percent. We did the right thing. I thought their defense stepped up. There were a lot of in-and-out shots. That's a product, also, of this building and their standards. That's something that they did well. They got second shots, you understand that. That's something we have to learn.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT