NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v LAKERS
May 26, 2008
Phil Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What do you got to do a better job of tomorrow than yesterday?  
 COACH JACKSON: Just matching the quickness and the speed they played the game at.  
  
  Q. When you look at the fact that -- in three of these games you have fallen down by 20 twice, is that a concern at all?  
 COACH JACKSON: Well, that's kind of how they play. They can grind it out. They can also have dry spots out there. We do know they can grind it out and then they get hot. Someone gets a 3 and some of those guys start shooting the ball a lot better.  
  
  Q. I looked at the tape and Ginobili had guys in his face. He just made shots. Are you disappointed against your defense or do you tip your hat to him?   
 COACH JACKSON: When he first came out on the floor and got going immediately, got him a sense of confidence, a relief for him to get going.  
  
  Q. What do you say to Pau and Lamar? They were 9 for 29 together. A lot of gimmes and easy shots. They were frustrated. Do you say anything to them or just let it go?  
 COACH JACKSON: I said what I wanted to say to them last night.  
  
  Q. Which was?  
 COACH JACKSON: I can't remember.   
  
  Q. Would it be repeatable even if you could?  
 COACH JACKSON: You know, we have a unique atmosphere. Remember, I mentioned they had some winning shots the other night.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 COACH JACKSON: Perhaps. I mean, you got to hand it to defense this time. (Indiscernible) and Duncan blocking some shots and some things there that they got to the basket and weren't able to complete.   
 A better base, just have more purpose in your drive in your shot.  
  
  Q. Pau and (indiscernible) said they didn't sleep well last night. Do you like that?  
 COACH JACKSON: I like players getting their rest. Any time you have a game that you don't play well you are upset, it is bothersome.  
  
  Q. How important is that for Game 4 tomorrow night?  
 COACH JACKSON: Well, you know, like I said, these are home at home series. They are supposed to hold home court. We're supposed to hold home court. The longer it keeps going on, the happier the networks are.  
  
  Q. Do you have thoughts of utilizing Trevor Ariza, longer body out on the perimeter?  
 COACH JACKSON: Maybe. Trevor hasn't been in that kind of milieu for a long time, that mix-it-up, the bump-and-run, kind of grind-out stuff, get a lot of bodies together, finding his way through it not really easy. It takes time. We have guys who I thought have done a pretty good job on what we wanted done.  
 There are other places I see Trevor helping.  
  
  Q. A lot of the players talked about playing better as a team offensively. Are you more concerned offensively or defensively?  
 COACH JACKSON: I think a lot of teams' offense leads to their defense. We are one of those teams that complain about if their offense doesn't go well, it affects their defense or their overall play. We score a lot of points and that's one of our, you know, trademark things.  
 San Antonio is a team that's a defense-oriented team. They have a lot of pride in their defense. We have a lot of pride in our offense.   
 At the beginning of the series, we get into these 20-point quarters, you will have to play to that kind of thing, keep playing hard. I thought we didn't play through some of those things, didn't run back. Let guys get easy baskets just because we didn't turn and run and play the game. Complain to officials in situations that weren't necessary to call, pay attention to the fouls and the fact they might have gotten fouled. You have to play through fouls in this game.  
  
  Q. You've had Lamar for a few years here. Do you have a sense of what causes those wild swings, where one night where he looks like an all-star and another night nothing quite goes right for him?  
 COACH JACKSON: The Bronx. Maybe. What else could I attribute it to.  
  
  Q. I don't know. He has those high highs and low lows, and maybe you don't know with respect from game to game. Have you figured it out?  
 COACH JACKSON: We have an idea. We are pretty comfortable we can get Lamar back on track, and you are right, once it gets going bad for him, sometimes he can't turn his game around in the course of the night.   
 That's one of the things we keep talking about, trying to recapture your ball game even though things haven't gone well for you early.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT