NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v LAKERS
May 25, 2008
Phil Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   COACH JACKSON: I think it was summed up by Tex Winter's wife who said simply, "that certainly wasn't very much fun, was it?" It wasn't very much fun for us at that end of the floor tonight. 

 Q. Phil, it looked like the game started to get away from you at the start of the second quarter when Kobe and Gasol were on the bench. Looked like Lamar tried to force things a few times. What did you see in the first five minutes or so?
 COACH JACKSON: It wasn't there. There was a period later on in the quarter. Obviously momentum was lost early in the ball game when, you know, Ginobili came in and hit two 3s and we had a lead at that time. 
 But, you know, the game see-sawed around 35 there at some period, and then they marched out to a 10-point lead, just 2, 4, 6, there was a three-pointer in there. Another three-point play. 
 But that was it. You know, in the third quarter we came pack and just couldn't break down and get any traction. 

 Q. How disappointed are you in the front court? Before the game you were talking about Pau and Lamar playing off each other. What happened out there tonight with those two? 
 COACH JACKSON: Indecision, I think. I think they weren't decisive on what they wanted to get done. They had their opportunities and missed some layups and things just didn't go well.

 Q. Why didn't you go to Ariza, Kobe, somebody on Manu after they went off on those two guys?
 COACH JACKSON: Those shots they were making, it didn't matter who you put on him. The guys were on him defensively. And I thought those were shots that were just impossible shots. You just tap the guy on the butt and say good shot and come back and play offense. That's all you can do in those situations. He had a couple 3s that were obviously unguarded, but the two 3s that were guys on him and those were just incredible shots. 

 Q. Coach, did your defense let you down tonight or did the Spurs offense finally start clicking a little bit? 
 COACH JACKSON: I thought it was our offense, to be honest with you. You know, I thought that we got -- just got out of rhythm. Teams do that. Just didn't get ourselves in rhythm in the last 8 minutes of the second quarter. 
 Obviously, the second half didn't go great for us either.

 Q. Phil, the Spurs team that finished the game looked dramatically different than the one that started the game than the one in Games 1 and 2. Do you feel like you led them up?
 COACH JACKSON: I do. I thought we had an opportunity early in the ball game and didn't take advantage of it. 
 We missed a couple foul shots. That's always like a turnover when you do that, little things that happen. We just didn't complete plays. 
 And not recognize the fact that Ginobili is going to come in there with certainly a spur in his hind end the way he played tonight. He is just quicker than our guys and reacting faster. 
 Once they got momentum and that energized their team, I thought the game started swinging their direction.

 Q. Phil, you said fatigue was probably a primary issue for the Spurs in L.A. What do you think led to them being so fired up today?
 COACH JACKSON: No fatigue. How about that? (Smiling).
 They were energized and they played with a lot more emotion, a lot more energy than we did. They were quicker to the ball. And it was quite obvious at times. They got reverses. They got back-doors. They got guys running out in fast-break layups. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT