NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 10, 2010
Phil Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What's the latest on Bynum and his knee the last few hours? Is he going to play tonight?  
 PHIL JACKSON: I think he'll give it a shot, and we'll see how it goes from there.  
  
  Q. Do you have any idea of minute totals for him?  
 PHIL JACKSON: We'll try to get him six, seven minutes at the beginning of the game. He likes to get out there and participate and get the feel of the game, and we'll see how he goes from there.  
  
  Q. Are people underestimating what he's playing with as far as the injury and how severe it might be?   
 PHIL JACKSON: I think the big factor is that he knows he's going to be in some kind of discomfort during the course of the game. It comes and goes. He feels a sharp pain when he makes a certain movement. He understands what it is, so it's not something he gets concerned about doing again. He understands how it comes and how it goes away, so he's been able to deal with it.  
 I don't think you underestimate it. I think it's just a growth of an NBA player dealing with what you have to do in this game at this time of the year.   
  
  Q. The officiating in this series has been a pretty hot topic from both the Lakers and the Celtics. Do you talk to your players about learning how to play through officiating in a Finals, or is that an issue of conversation in the locker room?  
 PHIL JACKSON: You know, first of all, I take issue with what you said to start out the question. I don't think it's any hotter than any other Finals that I've been part of. It's always contentious. There's been a little more focus, perhaps, this time. Perhaps some of it has been undercurrent in the past, but it's always a contention.   
 What we like to say to the players is you play beyond the refereeing, you play above the refereeing. If you get caught up in the refereeing, then you're doing a disservice to the game and to our game particularly. So you play beyond it and play the game according to how it's going to be refereed. If it's going to be tight, then you've got to play according to how it's going to be refereed. If it's going to be played loose, then you have to adjust to having a tougher type of game.  
  
  Q. How do you balance the whole idea of these are important games, his age, his future, in terms of pressing Bynum?   
 PHIL JACKSON: Yeah, I think our medical staff has done a great job in saying, this is what you're dealing with. He's got diagnostic reports. He sees what he's got. This is what you're dealing with, this is what's going to cause the twinge, the pain, the lack of muscle movement because of the pain, because the muscles shut down because of it. And this is probably how long or difficult it's going to last. For example, I took him out in the third quarter, concerned about him coming back in the fourth quarter. I asked the trainer, and the trainer said, no, he's all right again. He's worked through that issue, he's ready to go back in the game, which is like a big step for a young man his age.  
 I think sometimes our older players get used to that activity and can come out and do it. But this is a young guy who's gone through a couple of issues in his career already, so he's a little bit more comfortable playing in this discomfort.  
  
  Q. He seems to have shown some toughness in The Finals. Would you agree?  
 PHIL JACKSON: No doubt about that, yeah.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT