NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v LAKERS
May 23, 2008
Phil Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Phil, how is Trevor Ariza's progress and is there a chance he will play tonight?   
 COACH JACKSON: There is a chance.  
  
  Q. Will he play tonight?   
 COACH JACKSON: I don't know. He has to get off the bench and I have to put him in the game. But he is going to be dressed in a uniform tonight.  
  
  Q. What kind of feeling do you get from him? Is he showing the energy in practice that you want to see from him?   
 COACH JACKSON: Yeah. You know, I think the biggest thing is just recognition, having a little chance to practice this week and get recognition back, some of the things we do and get in sync is important.   
  
  Q. What would he give you, especially against this team, if you did play him?  
 COACH JACKSON: I don't know. You know, he's -- various things during the season. We had him playing Allen Iverson as a defensive guard, developing quickness and ability to play a smaller man and have a longer guy on him. Capable of doing that.   
 His speed is really a factor in our team speed.   
  
  Q. Would he be a good matchup for Ginobili?  
 COACH JACKSON: You know, I'm not so sure that's something I will go with right away. It's probably not my original thought. It would be something else.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about how you handle time-outs, specifically you're on the court doing your thing and for the last couple seconds you walk in and say something? How did that evolve and why do you do it that way?  
 COACH JACKSON: It evolved because I had a persistent person on my staff who wanted to tell me a lot of things in Tex Winter. So we go out on the court and get away from the rest of the huddle and the other coaches would chime in. He would give me basically the last -- between the time-out period what our completion or success ratio was in possessions.   
 And then whoever is carrying the defensive end, we would talk a little bit about what was going on defensively. So I'd have both information statistics basically from offense and defense.   
 The players are instructed to go back to the bench, you know, and get themselves settled in, get a drink, get a towel, talk to their teammates about what's going on on the court and what they can do to help each other.   
 And then the last 20 seconds, I just step in and we go from there. However, when it is ABC, TNT or ESPN, I don't have to tell you that there is a much longer period of time. Sometimes five to ten minutes longer so we try not to fall asleep on the court and get back to the huddle with some energy left so these guys haven't dried out (smiling).  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT