NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v LAKERS
May 21, 2008
Phil Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Andrew had the surgery today. How do you think the long-term prospects will be after the surgery? Seemed like a short procedure. 
 COACH JACKSON: Say that again. I can't hear you. You are sitting so close to me, the sound system doesn't seem to ...

 Q. What do you think of Bynum's surgery today? 
 COACH JACKSON: Oh, the surgery.

 Q. The long-term prognosis. 
 COACH JACKSON: Everything seemed to go well in that process that I've gotten a report obviously from both Gary and Mitch who are on the inside edge of that report. 
 Nothing unusual. Normal procedures. Says three months he should be as fit -- 100% and ready to play. 

 Q. Phil, are you glad that he did it now rather than trying, you know, to wait even one more day? 
 COACH JACKSON: I think Andrew is glad he did it. I think there is a sense of "let's move forward and get on with this," you know, and start the recovery process because there was no hope for him to return to us and play for us in the play-offs. So I think that's the process that he is really glad he did. 

 Q. Between the rest or being rested, do you think the rest works to your advantage or to your disadvantage? 
 COACH JACKSON: You know, in a series like this where we are playing every other day, I think it is going to work to our advantage because we'll have a little reserve to work from. 
 It is a lot of games after playing the first two rounds with a lot of time between games or at least two days' rest between certain segments of games. This is a bang-bang series, two time zones away, a lot of travel between.

 Q. Did you watch the Pistons last night? Do you think they look rusty? 
 COACH JACKSON: I don't think they matched the energy level that the Celtics were playing at, both early and late in the game.

 Q. How antsy is your team ready to play since you haven't played since Friday? 
 COACH JACKSON: They are very ready. We had to back them down in practice yesterday, with their competitive nature. Not so much play this game the right way and let's not get too physical with each other. That's the competitive nature of players. 
 And they went on and were okay during the rest of the practice, but the start was very active. 

 Q. Phil, the word is you were a big American Idol fan. Is that accurate? That's what we're hearing now. It is right across the street tonight. 
 COACH JACKSON: "A fan" may be a broad ... (smiling).
 I am kind of a naysayer, but I enjoy watching it with Jeanie. She edits it for me so I can critique it.

 Q. Who do you like? 
 COACH JACKSON: I think David will win without a doubt. (Smiling).







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT