UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 26, 2019
Tom Herman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COACH HERMAN: Good to be back in game week mode of operation. We've had a really, really good training camp. I feel like our team has developed -- I know our team chemistry has developed a lot. And these guys enjoy being around one another. And it's as close as of a team as I've been around.
So, excited for that. We do know, that, obviously we've got to play a football game, though, in five days. And Louisiana Tech, very well coached, very experienced quarterback -- I know Coach Holtz will have those guys fired up and ready to play and give us their best shot. So we've got to be at our best as well.
A couple of guys that will not play in the game, Josh Moore has been suspended for the game. Kirk Johnson, Reese Moore, Jarrett Smith and Daniel Young will all not play in the game due to injury. And Gerald Wilbon tweaked his knee in warm-ups or something and having a hard time getting the swelling down. But he's kind of day to day, but would not practice today if we had a practice.
Q. Coach, the level of concern at the running back position? And what can you tell us about Keaontay Ingram?
COACH HERMAN: Level of concern is high. We were supposed to have five scholarship running backs, and if they all stayed healthy we would have had five. And obviously Derrian Brown got here two days ago. He's doing great, but will not play this season. And then you get Kirk and Danny both going down with season-ending -- not season-ending -- training camp-ending, or a good four to six weeks' worth of injury. And now you're left with Keaontay and Jordan. And Keaontay goes and twists his knee up.
But he's doing well. Jordan's still fighting some residual effects from sports hernia surgery he had in high school. So that flares up on him from time to time.
And then Roschon Johnson has played tailback for about the last six, seven days of practice, just to get us up -- because right now, that would be "in case of emergency, break glass," but running back's a violent position.
Q. Season didn't start as you planned the first two years. Do you see any common denominators in the losses to Maryland that you fixed for this season?
COACH HERMAN: No, I mean, it's just every year is different, every team is different in terms of their psyche. So, no, they're all different.
I will tell you, the one area we have adjusted the most has been centered around the fact that we start classes the Wednesday before the game. Really very, very few schools have that issue. And I called a lot of my colleagues -- I remember asking Coach Swinney at Clemson, I said, hey, what do you do, every year our practice on the first day of classes is not real good. And he goes, he said, I never practice on the first day of classes.
I said what if classes start the week of the game? He said I've been a head coach I don't know how long -- that had been, eight, nine years -- he said it's never happened. So it's a very unique situation here at Texas and one that we're handling a little bit better with our schedule.
We'll practice at night this entire week, at 6:30. So these guys get off of class at 2:00, and especially that first day, and they'll have a few hours kind of to get that first day out of their system.
Q. Do you know why you lost those two games in retrospect? Why do you feel like --
COACH HERMAN: We didn't play good enough.
Q. One quick injury one before the main question, Zach Shackleford --
COACH HERMAN: Practiced full yesterday and today's an off day. I imagine he'll be ready to go Tuesday.
Q. Big picture, Coach, I know you said the only pressure that counts is the things you guys say or expectations within, but your guys don't live in a bubble. They hear the outside expectations. They hear the noise. How do they handle, then, the success of this past season and some of those expectations that go into it?
COACH HERMAN: I don't sense it. I've said before -- and we drill this into our players and our coaches with one-on-one talks with them all the time about we know you're going to hear it. It's your choice whether you listen to it or not.
It's a unique human skill, the skill of listening. I don't think it's very difficult when you break it down like that. We know that it's unavoidable that these guys are going to see and hear all of these messages in today's society. They're bombarded with messages.
And it's our job to continue to reiterate the fact that we're playing for each other. Our job isn't to prove anybody wrong. It's our job to prove ourselves right to each other. And then again, I think they really believe that the only people whose opinions of them matter are those guys in that team meeting room, the coaches and players. Beyond that, it's noise.
Q. Unless I missed it, is Jake Smith not an option at running back?
COACH HERMAN: He certainly would have been, could have been, had the straits been more dire. I think it was a wise move having Roschon knowing the offense. Roschon having been here an entire spring, his acclimation to it -- Jake has been just playing slot receiver. He's our starting punt returner, all that stuff. So we didn't want to put that also on his plate. And maybe we get to that point at some point, but right now it wasn't necessary.
Q. Question about the schedule. Starting this year and going forward, you guys begin a schedule setup of a non-Power 5 team before a glamour -- what is perceived as a glamour game. And talking to Chris, he likes that format. I'm assuming you do too.
COACH HERMAN: Absolutely.
Q. Wonder, what's your thinking about setting up almost every schedule going forward this way?
COACH HERMAN: It's the one thing -- everybody wants to talk about expanding playoffs and this, that and the other -- some form of unified scheduling model across all conferences is something, I think, we need to tackle much sooner than worrying about the playoffs.
Us and USC in, what is it, '17 and '18, were the only two teams in the country that played 11 Power 5 games. And you've got teams in other conferences only playing eight conference games and four non-Power 5 schools. So you're comparing apples to oranges when you talk about schedule and toll on these kids' bodies, all that stuff.
So the Big 12 mandates that you play one Power 5 school a year, plus our nine Power 5 conference opponents. So it's something I expressed displeasure in as well that we're hurting ourselves if we're mandating all of these schedule issues, plus we play nine conference games.
But if you are going to play nine conference games and one marquee non-power 5 opponent -- or Power 5 opponent, you certainly want to do it week two rather than week one so you're not having to prepare that way.
Q. Is that perfect scenario, a non-Power 5 marquee -- I don't want to say an easier opponent --
COACH HERMAN: Non-Power 5, correct and then conference schedule.
Q. Cade Brewer's status? And also, how did you come out of camp? Did you really get everything accomplished that you wanted to do out of the preseason camp? Is there anything you left off your checklist that you wanted to get done?
COACH HERMAN: No, I feel great about it, to be honest with you. The checklist is great. Cade Brewer is fine. Dealt with a concussion deal last week, but he's been cleared, passed all the tests.
Yeah, I don't think we were limited. We had to monitor the running backs' reps significantly. But everything else, we got in what we wanted to.
Q. Earlier this summer you said the linebacking was a point that you definitely have an eye on. What did you see from those new guys? And this next game coming up, what challenges does that present to that position?
COACH HERMAN: Yeah, I think obviously Joseph Adeli (phonetic) and Jeffrey Ahl (phonetic) had really good fall camps. Marcus Tillman, we saw flashes of in the spring, and I was excited to see his next step from a development standpoint. And he certainly did not disappoint. And then Juwan and Caleb were very pleasant surprises for me.
Those guys can both play here. So although we do lose Jeffrey after this year, he'll be the only one that we lose. And so we're excited about the future of that position. David Gbenda can really, really play.
Now, going into this game, you just worry a little bit about -- Adeli has ran down on kickoffs a few times or whatever it's been, but to be the starting middle linebacker and jog out there with the first-team defense, we're going to have to do a good job with him of making sure that he takes deep breaths and just go out there and do your job.
Q. You looking forward to 1-0, this is the culture that you're talking about, what stands out from Louisiana Tech and what are you looking at from their team?
COACH HERMAN: Oh, their quarterback, certainly. He's very experienced. The wide receiver, I'm looking at Adrian Hardy is a guy who can play anywhere in the country. And then they've got coach Diaco, Bob Diaco is the defensive coordinator there now, and familiar with him from our time when he was at UConn and we were at University of Houston. So he does a really good job on that side of the ball as well.
Q. Would you anticipate that Keaontay or Jordan would be limited for Saturday? And what can you tell us about the cornerback situation and that battle and where it stands?
COACH HERMAN: There are only two, I don't know how you would limit both of them or what that would even entail for a game.
I know in practice they're in green jerseys. They're non-contact right now. I don't think the refs will let me put a green jersey on the game. So, we need them. They've got to go.
What was your other question?
Q. The cornerbacks?
COACH HERMAN: Right now, if we started today it would be Jalen Green and Koby Boyce backed up by D'Shawn Jamison and Anthony Cook.
In my opinion, Jalen has earned the right to consider himself a starter. The other three guys are going to battle out throughout this week.
Q. With Sam's style, mentality, a little thin at the running back maybe, is there any discussions about don't try to do too much or gotta have you for 13, 14 games?
COACH HERMAN: For three years there's been that discussion. He's going to do -- our job, quarterbacks -- it's always going to be part of the run game based off of reads.
I think we've done a nice job, again, as I told you in the spring, of we've gone to more -- we've gone to less run-to-run, option-based off reading an end or a linebacker to more of a run/pass option so that they can get the ball out of his hands.
But he is -- I mean, he is who he is. And we're going to need him in the run game at key points during the season. But you would like to keep his physicality to a minimum. And we talk a lot about it.
Q. Another Sam question. How big a luxury is it to have a guy like Sam back there because I know a lot of coaches are announcing quarterback starters? How much of a luxury is it to have Sam back there, and is he a de facto coach back there for the offense?
COACH HERMAN: Yeah, I mean, it's a very underrated comfort. We're never going to get complacent. But I think comfort is the right word and confident in what he can do.
It's a testament to Tim Beck and testament to the fact that he's been in the same offensive system for three years, had the same quarterback coach for three years. With that level of consistency, you know, he's been able to thrive in that environment. And, yeah, I mean he's everything you want. I don't know if "coach on the field," we would ever say that. But he's pretty sharp and he's got a real control of the offense.
Q. Players and coaches have mentioned Collin Johnson's improved leadership. What does that do for the offense and this team?
A. Improved leadership --
Q. On and off the field, with Collin Johnson?
COACH HERMAN: Oh, with Collin. Yeah, I've seen such a transformation in that young man, physically, mentally, from a leadership standpoint. You know, it's -- Collin's always been a hard worker, but now he's really leading guys to come follow him in the way that he does things. And so obviously it's more impactful on the offense because he does have he's around those guys a little bit more but everybody on the team really respects him.
Q. Is there a possibility we'll see all four corners this week, and would you like the two that you exit the week with, the guys that play all Saturday?
COACH HERMAN: Yeah, there's a possibility. I'm not going to say that's off the table, but it's not something that we have talked about yet.
Q. As relates to -- guys that have any, you know, full out games last year, but say you can play at backup, but is there a thought process that you guys would like to get Casey Thompson as many reps going forward, if possible?
COACH HERMAN: Yeah, I mean if we're afforded to. I mean, we're not going to throw him in series three of the game just to do that. But, yeah, we had multiple offensive linemen play over a thousand game snaps last year, which is a lot. A lot, a lot.
But we won 10 games, and that's the goal is to win the game. But if we had the luxury to play him, we'll play him as soon as we feel like that time is upon us.
Q. Earlier I believe you said you said you have six offensive linemen you feel good about, one, eight or nine, and the last two or three one this past couple of weeks?
COACH HERMAN: No, it's a big question mark, to be honest with you. We've got to grow up very quickly with the next group of guys at that position.
Q. How do you feel about the offensive line and who do you like at the first five there?
COACH HERMAN: Oh, the first five? We haven't even decided yet but it will be some combination of Sam Cosmi, Zach Shackelford, Junior Angilau, Derek Kerstetter or Denzel Okafor or Parker Braun.
Q. No surprises?
COACH HERMAN: Yeah.
Q. Like you said, it's game week, first week of the year, new year. What do you want this program to do, in your mind, your vision of Texas football this year, where do you want to go?
COACH HERMAN: Well, starting 1-0 would be nice. That's always the goal. But, again, the big picture goal is never going to change around here. It's to be in the conversation for a conference championship in the months of November and December. And I think we're capable of -- certainly our best week in, week out is capable of doing that.
Q. There were times last year where you had mentioned team speed on offense or the skill positions, things here and there that you guys kind of wish you had. As you look at this roster and watched them through camp now, do you find yourself realizing, hey, we need this, we need this, and you've got more of kind of what you need as you build --
COACH HERMAN: I do know we're as fast as a football team as we've been since we've been here. And we're as strong. So I don't think there's really a glaring deficiency somewhere at a certain position or a certain skill set.
Q. We talk every year, you don't have the luxury of a preseason game, even a scrimmage against another team. You watched Florida-Miami and the cliche of teams don't win openers; they're lost because of mistakes. Is that something you guys -- it's nonstop kind of pounding home to everybody?
COACH HERMAN: Absolutely, yeah. Usually the team in openers that plays the cleanest wins, and by that you're talking about penalties and turnovers and missed assignments.
If you can keep those to a minimum, you're going to have a really good shot in game ones. But I've never heard that before, that more of them are lost than won. But that makes sense.
Q. We haven't seen or talked to you since the passing of Cedric Benson. The team release that was going to honor him with decals. Just your thoughts on Ced and what it means to honor him and pay tribute to him in this way.
COACH HERMAN: Yeah, obviously when you lose someone to an accident that young, there's no other word than "tragic" that comes to mind. And Cedric was one of the best that's ever played here. And he's going to be missed by a lot.
I thought our former players did a really good job of showing up to the funeral and paying their respects. But, yeah, we're thinking and praying for his family and we also realize he's one of the best that's ever played here.
Q. I was going to ask you what your special teams were, your punter is and as far as your returners.
COACH HERMAN: Feel as good as I have with special teams heading into the season since we've been here. The punter's much more consistent than he was last year. Now, he's obviously got to go do it in games, too, when it counts.
And then the kicker, you know, I love our kicker. I think he's fun to be around, which you don't say a whole lot of times about specialists. But all those guys, they're great guys, great guys.
And then returners, right now would be Jake Smith at punt returner and then we'd probably put Brandon -- if it was a kill punt situation for the other team and had to make some split-second decisions -- we'd probably put Brandon Jones back there to put your toes on the 10 or heels on the 10, whatever it is and make good decisions.
And then the two kickoff returners are Devon Smith and -- or Devin Duvernay and Jake Smith.
Q. Again, personally Coach, you're going for your fortieth win here. Where are your juices and your energy right now as you start this year?
COACH HERMAN: Really high. Usually camp kind of, training camp can drain you a little bit. I think one of the things that the NCAA did well this year starting of the week before your game regardless of whether you start classes or not, you have to go to a 20-hour week for your team.
Last year, year before, all the way up leading until this year, today and tomorrow, we could have had a full day training camp schedule, where now we're bound by the 20-hour rule, which I think is good. But what it's also allowed us as coaches is to pause a little bit, take a deep breath and get our energy back that was lost throughout training camp.
Q. The road to the college football playoff starts this week. Trying to go back to New Orleans. It's not a one-week thing, but what's your message to the fans to be part of this journey and how much you need their support?
COACH HERMAN: Yeah, I think the message is, one, we thank you. We're so appreciative of the support that we get. I know, as of this morning, we were 13 tickets away from setting the all-time season ticket record here. So we appreciate them and coming out to support us.
And they have a direct impact on winning and losing. Really, really loud, packed, intimidating crowds, that has an effect on a visiting opponent. And hopefully we can be as loud and as packed as anybody in the country this year.
Q. I saw the guys dancing and prancing with their Popeye's chicken sandwich. Did they share one with you? Have you had one of those things?
COACH HERMAN: I have, the spicy and the regular.
Q. On the Joshua Moore suspension, his legal case could take several more weeks to resolve. Is that a one-game suspension or could this go deeper into the season?
COACH HERMAN: We're gathering information. We're hoping the legal process is concluded soon, but I'll have to update you that on Monday because things could change. Correct, he will not suit up.
Q. You talked about the familiarity with Coach Diaco, especially in an opener when you've got a coach that's at a new job, what do you break down in terms of what you study? How far back do you go? Do you look at Louisiana Tech stuff or Nebraska stuff?
COACH HERMAN: The position coaches, they're going to look at a lot of Louisiana Tech stuff for personnel to give their guys tips on the personnel, but, yeah, we don't spend a whole lot of time game planning.
It's hard when a guy is in an opener and the last time he coordinated was 2017 at Nebraska. So kind of just watching a little bit of everything, even some of the stuff at UConn to Nebraska, to even his time at Oklahoma last year. We broke down those films, too.
So, keeping the game plan pretty tight in terms of the numbers of calls that we're going to rep and have available to us during the game, because we just -- we don't know -- we're pretty unsure and we want to be able to have practiced them versus all the different scenarios, fronts and coverages as well as be adaptable as the game goes on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT