BNP PARIBAS FED CUP: USA VS BELARUS
November 11, 2017
Kathy Rinaldi
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. SABALENKA/S. Stephens   
6-3, 3-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  Can you say how your knee was and what you felt was the difference in the match.  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Knee was fine.  I feel I played a good player.  She had a great crowd out there today.  It was always going to be a tough match, no matter what.  I think I could have done a few things different.   
But all in all, I just fought as hard as I could.  I competed really well.  That's all I can really ask for.   
 Q.  In the third set, she was successful with her serve.  Was it a turning point in the match?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: No, I think she hits a lot of great shots like that that were just too good today.  I think when you play someone that plays like that, you just got to give it up to them.  She hit probably three or four second-serve aces down the T.  I probably should have covered it.   
When you're playing someone that is playing that well, there's not much you can do.  You can just tip your hat to them, applaud them, and move on.   
 Q.  Kathy, 1-1.  I'm sure you would have preferred 2-0.  Talk about that and going into tomorrow.  
CAPTAIN RINALDI: I want to say I'm extremely proud of Sloane today.  That was a battle.  That's what we're here for.  It was a tremendous battle.  She fought all the way to the end, saving some match points.  I still thought she could have won that match.   
We go in, we're 1-1.  We're going to learn from this, put it behind us.  We're going to come out tomorrow, come out strong, we're going to compete hard again.  That's what we're going to do, is compete hard, battle, be there for each other.   
 Q.  Is it possible that tomorrow there will be some changes in singles and doubles?  
CAPTAIN RINALDI: We'll see.   
 Q.  Sloane, she has a carefree nature, then she can be careless.  How difficult is that to play against?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: We're in Fed Cup, anything goes.  It's different than playing in a regular tournament.   
The way she played today, that was insane.  But I think playing for your country is a little bit different.  The crowd behind her, the support she had, it's incredible.  That's what every player plays for, right?   
I think she played with the whole country behind her and she played great.   
 Q.  In the predraw press conference, you said it would not be easy to win two games in a row for either team.  Now the count is 1-1.  What are your expectations?  
CAPTAIN RINALDI: We're going to take it one at a time, just as we did today.  We're going to come out and we're going to prepare and we're going to compete, we're going to go after it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT