AL DIVISION SERIES: MARINERS v WHITE SOX
October 5, 2000
James Baldwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Did you have a chance to throw on the side in the last couple of days, and where is the injury in the shoulder, and as far as pain?  Is it the same as it's been, a little less, a little more? 
 
JAMES BALDWIN:   Everything is fine.  Right now, you know, I'm just worrying about going out there, pitching and trying to give the team a chance to pin a win.  Obviously we're going out there and try to do what we've got to do to take it to the next level and bring it back to Chicago.  
 
Q.  There's in guys that like being up to the plate with two outs in the bottom of the ninth and others that don't.  You find yourself in that position now.  How do you feel about the position that you have unfortunately been put into? 
 
JAMES BALDWIN:   Well, we've been in this position before, as far as losing two games, but we don't worry about that.  We still just got to go up there and have fun.  We can't look at this as we're two games down, you know.  Just got to go out there and have fun.  Right now, it's just take it one game at a time.  And honestly, go out there and do whatever it takes to win that game tomorrow.  
 
Q.  Jerry Manuel said that he hopes that you can reach back to the last time that you had a really good outing.  Was that something that he said out or something that you thought about at all? 
 
JAMES BALDWIN:   Obviously you want to go out there you decent want to go out there and have your good stuff.  Right now I feel that I'm going to go out there and have my good stuff.  And this is a do-or-die situation, and especially now a lot of people would like to be in our situation, being here in the playoffs.  So right now there's no extra added pressure on anybody.  We just go up there and have fun.  Right now  -- the situation right now, we've just got to go out there and do just that.  
 
Q.  In your last outing, you struggled at the beginning but then Jerry came out to the mound and it seemed like you kicked it up a notch and struck out three straight guys.  Do you have that extra level that you can go to and can you do it tomorrow? 
 
JAMES BALDWIN:   That's the name of the game.  Everybody in the clubhouse can and will kick it up to that extra notch.  We came out to the mound, just one of those things where you know you have to realize that this is your final tune-up for the playoffs and the other day I felt so good to where I couldn't control my fastball because I was feeling really good, throwing my changeup, curveball.  I was able to throw it over for a try and once I got the ball down in the strike zone, it made me feel a lot better.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about the inspiration of guys like yourself and some of the other guys going out there and playing hurt, knowing that during normal circumstances, you would not be playing? 
 
JAMES BALDWIN:   Well, a lot of guys, this time of year, a lot of guys go out there and play with a little fatigue in their body and a little injury here and there but this is the time that we need to go out there and play.  Like you said before, this is a situation that we would not have to be in as far as not being in the playoffs and the guys that are hurt now, you know, they would not be playing.  But right now you cannot look at that.  This is a once-in-a-lifetime thing.  You never know when you will get back to this position.  So obviously everyone wants to go out there and play and do whatever it takes to win that ballgame.  
 
Q.  This is known as a pitcher's ballpark.  Do you have any thoughts on how you have done here and your history here? 
 
JAMES BALDWIN:   No.  Not at all.  Every time I come here or every time I get on the mound I try to pitch very carefully, because, you know, these guys are very good hitters.  They are very strong powerful lineup over there so you definitely have to go over there and attack them and not give in to anybody.  And that's what we, as a pitching staff, have been taught this year is to go out there and attack the hitters and that's why we found ourselves in the playoffs.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about your friendship with Mike Cameron? 
 
JAMES BALDWIN:   Mike Cameron is a very good friend of mine.  He was over here and got drafted a year after I did and he has always been one of the guys that I call every day just about or he gives me a call.  Just one of those friendship things.  But tomorrow when you get up there on the mound I have no friends.  I told him that, you know, I'll do whatever it takes to win.  But like I said, you know, it's a good feeling to be able to see your buddy in the playoffs and know that he is here or playing against him or whatever.  Like I say, he is my friend right now, but tomorrow when I get on the mound, I have no friend. 
 
Q.  How is your velocity right now compared to what it was earlier in the season, based upon pitching in the last month? 
 
JAMES BALDWIN:   It's okay.  It's okay.  It's noticeable, put it that way.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about going in there and having watched the other pitchers pitch against these guys, and whether the key to stopping this club like during the regular season is stopping Edgar and Alex? 
 
JAMES BALDWIN:   Well, I've been watching them very carefully over the last, you know, couple days.  Obviously when you get to this level, everybody's approach to the game is a lot higher than what it would be during the regular season.  Like I said, those guys are very good hitters over there and to stop those guys, you know to keep them in the ballpark is going to be a big plus for us.  Like I say, those guys are very powerful.  You know we're just going to go out there and attack those guys and do whatever it takes.  
 
Q.  Can you go six or seven innings?  You've only gone three or four innings your last two starts? 
 
JAMES BALDWIN:   I'm going to go out there and give it all I've got.  It might be four innings or it might be nine innings.  Who knows?  I'm not going out there to cheat myself and cheat my teammates.  Put it that way. 
 
Q.  Are you going to be on a pitch count? 
 
JAMES BALDWIN:   In the playoffs, I doubt it.  
 
Q.  Could you talk about Jerry Manuel and the approach that's guiding you, the situation with the day off, what has his approach been with the team? 
 
JAMES BALDWIN:   Jerry is very laid back.  Obviously, we want to come in and take two and take it back to Chicago.  He's one of the kind of guys where he's going to let us go out there and play and play hard.  That's just the kind of manager he is.  Whether we are up two or down two, he's just going to take it one day at a time with the same approach.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT