AL DIVISION SERIES: RAYS VS ASTROS
October 8, 2019
Tyler Glasnow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Tampa Bay - 4, Houston - 1   
 Q.  Tyler, I'm not sure if you thought you'd be going back to Houston after coming back down 0-2, but what's your feeling about having this opportunity to head back to Minute Maid Park and close out the series?  
TYLER GLASNOW: It's always important to prepare for game 5. Lining up, I was assuming I would get it. It was important to stay prepared, knowing I could have gone out of the bullpen yesterday and today. Luckily, we played super well, and I'm excited to pitch in game 5.   
 Q.  Having just faced this team, do you prepare any differently facing them again?  
TYLER GLASNOW: Obviously, some things will change. I'm sure I'll talk to Kyle. For me, my routine and everything has stayed the same all year. I'm treating it like any other start. So yes and no at the same time. But for the most part, I'm just going to do what I do.   
 Q.  How good does it feel knowing that they're not celebrating in that locker room today?  
TYLER GLASNOW: Feels real good. Hopefully we'll be able to go in game 5 and celebrate over there. That's the plan.   
 Q.  I guess having gone through what you went through on the road this year, 48 wins during the regular season, winning the wildcard game, being able to celebrate in visiting locker rooms yourself, does it -- I guess the question is, when you have that sort of experience, do things kind of slow down for you when you're out there in a situation like that?  
TYLER GLASNOW: I think if you have a good routine beforehand. By no means am I like a veteran. I haven't been doing this a long time. This season, the shift in mentality, and I know what I have to do before games, that's where the confidence comes from.   
Obviously, too, all the guys on our team are so good. It's been really easy to play for all the guys on defense. I don't know if celebrating on the road helps, but yeah. Sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT