AL DIVISION SERIES: RAYS VS ASTROS
October 4, 2019
Tyler Glasnow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Houston - 6, Tampa Bay - 2
Q. Tyler, how do you feel kind of in your first playoff? And then that pitch to Altuve, did you feel it was a pretty good pitch?
TYLER GLASNOW: Yeah, I actually agreed with the pitch. Hindsight's 20/20. If I went back, I would probably throw a curveball. There were a lot of heaters leading up to it. It was a good pitch though. He's a really good hitter and he put a good swing on it.
Q. What's the attitude like trying to match with Verlander, who is epic out there again?
TYLER GLASNOW: For me, I think it doesn't really matter who is pitching on the other side. I kind of have my routine and what I have to do before. I'm really not focused too much on who the other guy is. But yeah, he's a good pitcher.
Q. Could you talk about the conversation with Kyle on the mound after the leadoff walk in that inning?
TYLER GLASNOW: If I can remember. I don't even -- I think obviously just game plan, what we want to do with Bregman. I can't even recall. I don't know what he said.
Q. What did you think of how aggressive the Astros were on the base paths today?
TYLER GLASNOW: I had a feeling. I'm not relatively, like, quick to home plate so, I mean, everyone I'm up against, I definitely need to keep that in mind. I know they have some pretty good base stealers. But yeah, I think usually against me, guys are always trying to go pretty early. So I wasn't too shocked.
Q. You mentioned in hindsight, you probably would have changed up a little bit with Altuve in that at-bat. In the first two at-bats, did you give it mostly fastballs as well?
TYLER GLASNOW: I feel like today, I was pretty fastball heavy. Coming out early on, not having a great feel for my curveball for strikes, it was more of a fastball heavy game plan. I think as the game went on, obviously, I started throwing a little bit more, there was a little sharper bite to them. Early on, most guys, it was mostly heaters.
Q. What was the experience like, the crowd and dealing with your nerves and playing a team that played a lot of games like this?
TYLER GLASNOW: It was pretty unbelievable. Obviously, I wish the score was a little different right now. But for that being my first playoff experience, it was pretty amazing. It was awesome. I think going out beforehand, my M.O. usually as a starter is to try and create adrenaline and I kind of pitch with emotion. Today, like, I walked outside, I was like, Okay, I don't have to do anything. It's all there already. That was a nice feeling.
Just kind of going up and trying to stay relaxed, but I felt good overall.
Q. Tyler, obviously the home run to Altuve was the final -- the leadoff walk, is that one you wish you could take back?
TYLER GLASNOW: Yeah, it was just a little slower. Once a guy gets on base, my adjustment usually -- our adjustment is to be a little quicker when I'm missing up and missing all over the place. It's usually just long arm getting behind me.
When the guy got on first, I felt like I kind of got back where I needed to be. I just left that pitch up and it was a two-run home run.
Hindsight, I would go back and change some things, but can't do anything about it now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT