SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 1, 2012
Sharon Fanning-Otis
Diamber Johnson
Porsha Porter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We're joined by Mississippi State head coach Sharon Fanning‑Otis, Diamber Johnson and Porsha Porter. 
Coach, if you could start off with some comments. 
COACH FANNING‑OTIS:   When we went in at halftime, I felt if we could take care of the basketball, have some consistent effort, some more shots would fall for us in the second half, and rebound the basketball a little bit better.   I thought in the second half we did that.   Got within three.   Tremendous team effort.   I was really proud of them. 
At that point you have to get a stop somewhere.   You have to get a stop.   You cannot give up a free throw.   I mean, obviously if you look at the stats, you can see that's a huge difference, 21 to 4.   We needed to take the ball at them, be a little more patient. 
We only had one assist at halftime.   So we saw each other better.   But I felt like we may have needed an extra pass.   But we definitely needed to get to the free‑throw line.   You may need a pump fake.   You need an offensive board with second‑chance points.   I don't think that we finished the way that we should have there. 
Trying to hold them under 40% from the field was a goal, and for us to get above 40%.   Didn't quite achieve that.   Especially their three‑point shots made a big difference.   You have to let a team make a mistake, not give them second‑chance points, make sure not to let them get to the free‑throw line as easily as we did. 
But Vanderbilt is a great team.   When I look at their scoring, I see four people in double figures, a couple more knocking on the door.   They've had several people that have done that, several different rotations.   They don't play maybe a lot of players, but players who understand what to do on the floor, how to play well together.   I'm proud of what they've done. 
I think our SEC is so very competitive.   I really, really see eight teams that have an ability to get to this NCAA tournament.   We wish all of them the best.   This experience that we've had with a group, a couple of freshmen that are in starting lineups. 
I've said this before, Diamber is the one player on this basketball team that this year had already been to every gym to play with a lot of minutes.   Danielle Rector had been in there.   She redshirted a year.   Diamber is the one that has carried the minutes in these last four years. 
She changed positions a couple of years ago, brought along Porter.   To see this young lady on the All Team SEC, see one of our freshman that was on the All Freshman team, I'm very proud of it.   I think there's good years ahead for this young class because we have freshmen in the lineup and backing up with a couple more. 
Anyway, Diamber has worked hard to develop those leadership skills that we've needed.   Sometimes there's been breakdowns on the floor because of some experience.   I know even the seniors, Porter and Brown and Bett, who rotated key roles in the senior class, this is their second year with us.   Bett just second year and a semester actually with her.   So there was a lot of learning that had to take place. 
When you can get a team, they play hard, finish as hard as they can, I'm very, very proud of that.   Look forward to following their careers, their seniors as they get jobs, the reality of real life now and these young players. 
Our basketball program has been in the finals of an SEC championship.   We've been to a Sweet 16.   It's time now for Mississippi State to step up and to win a championship and get to the Elite 8 and Final Four.   I look forward to following that progress. 
On the other side of the coin, I will be in the Bulldog Club working on fundraising, working with all our sports program.   I do thank the university for the opportunity to serve as their head coach for these years.   It's been a tremendous experience.   Again, just look forward to serving the university in a very special way, a little bit different, but still giving to these young student‑athletes. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   Sharon, talk a little bit about what it's meant to you being the coach at Mississippi State. 
COACH FANNING‑OTIS:   I told Mr. Templeton, our athletic director, who was there when I was hired, and of course to extend to Scott, our present AD, Greg, those three guys, they've given me a tremendous opportunity. 
I think what makes it so special is the people.   Small college town, usually the community embraces that university.   Got involved with church when I first got there.   It's just the friends. 
I think in life as we look back on whatever we do, usually the people we work with, that's where the memories come from, the people who you've been with, all the players, all the coaches, anybody that you worked with at the university. 
But it's just a special community.   It's a great time to be at Mississippi State, from our leadership, from our president on down.   It's great.   We see facilities getting in a position where all of our sports can compete in the SEC at the very top.   I know we're all expecting championships.   I am very thankful for that, very thankful for the blessing of being able to continue to work with the university. 

Q.   For the student‑athletes, if you could sum up what Coach Fanning‑Otis has meant to you and this program while you've been there. 
DIAMBER JOHNSON:   Well, I've been here for four years.   Every year, you look at my career, it's grown every year.   It's because of this woman here to the left of me.   She's guided me in every aspect on and off the court, has really helped me become who I am today on and off the court. 
I'm glad she gave me the opportunity to be here.   I wouldn't have wanted to be anywhere else regardless.   She shared great experiences.   I'm glad I got to experience that with her and the Bulldog family. 
THE MODERATOR:   Porsha. 
PORSHA PORTER:   I just want to thank Coach Fanning for giving me the opportunity to play at Mississippi State.   She has taught me well on and off the court.   I'm going to miss her.   I'm going to miss my teammates.   That's it. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, ladies. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT