WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 27, 2021
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. On to the quarters.  Tommy, you won four of the first six holes, highlighted by the ace on the 4th.  What were you doing so well early in the match to ultimately take control and win?
 TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Yeah, hit it really good.  Anything like the 4th is a bonus, but still I hit really good solid golf shots.
 I just kept doing the right things really and holed out really well throughout the day.
 (Indiscernible - wind.)  have a chance.  So did everything right really.  That's all I could do.
 Q. You're normally one the calmest, coolest guys out here on the world stage.  The reaction with the ace on the par 3 4th looked like it didn't phase you.
 TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   It was a (indiscernible) reaction.
 Q. No, it was tremendous.
 TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   It's just like we weren't sure whether it had gone in.  Like I don't know.  The thing about match play is I might have won, but it was just on the next hole and try and kick on.  I might think about it later.  But, yeah, it was a great shot.
 Q. Wonderful the way you controlled it.  I thought you picked conservative targets and made aggressive swings to them once you got up in the match against Dylan Frittelli.
 TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Yeah, played really well.  Got off to the perfect start and just kind of kept it going.  I didn't have in I shots a way basically, and then obviously when you've got off to a good, start playing solid and making no worse than a par, it's tough to beat.  Pick up a couple shots on 10 and great shot to finish it off, so definitely the longer the match goes on you're getting closer to the end and the more nervous you're getting.
 But happy it close it out.
 Q. All right.  Take me back to the 4th hole.  I have you 179 with a 7-iron.
 TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   I don't remember the yardage.  I just know it was a smooth 7, carried onto the slope, and rolled back in.  We couldn't see it.  There were like four people behind and we still weren't sure.  Got up to the green and Dylan went,  Ha, ha, that was so close.
 It disappeared and had gone in the hole.  I think that was back-to-back hole in ones on that hole because Sergio I think was the last person to play it last night and then me this morning, so we're on it good run on that one.
 Q. Sometimes you make a hole-in-one and you got so much adrenaline it's hard to get back into focus.  You were right in command with the win at the 6 as well, par-5.
 TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Yeah, played 5 and 6 great.  Just hitting really, really good golf shots and good solid putting.  So I didn't get -- that's the thing, make a hole-in-one, it's just one hole and then you've got to get on to the next one and keep playing.
 Yeah, I did a good job sort of saying staying in the moment, staying calm, and trying to kick on from there.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT