MASTERS TOURNAMENT
November 9, 2020
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  TOMMY FLEETWOOD: A lot of things can change very, very rapidly. They think that they can do some kind of magic and change the course as much as they want. But, yeah, I think just around the greens it's played a little bit different, like with it being a little bit different grass, a little bit more grass, it feels like at times to strike a chip is a bit easier. You always have to try and conjure (inaudible) and kind of make shots into the back. 
I guess that's the biggest difference. Yeah, you know, you keep playing and keep figuring it out as you go along.

Q. With the play changing Monday to Thursday, was that kind of the idea? 
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: That's the thing. You just take it each day that comes really. They can change it as quick as they want, and they can do some crazy things like to make a difference. So you just keep‑‑ I think that's one of the things this week. You just want to keep getting out on the golf course and keep playing different shots and just seeing how the ball reacts and what kind of lies you get and just how the golf course is playing. 
I think this week more than pretty much any other week or golf course, you just being out on the course is so important.

Q. How different do you think it's going to play with no patrons here this week, particularly around Amen Corner, when you get down in there? 
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, when I think of all the tournaments that there's been no crowds out, I think a lot of people feel like this one is going to feel the most different. I think you associate so many moments in the history of the tournament and so many moments that you know on the back nine with the patrons and how they react. I think in certain areas now‑‑ (Inaudible). Oh, that looks different or that looks more accessible. I think visually it's bound to change it a lot. 
What hole was it where you can see‑‑ it's on the 17th green where you can see all the way down to the 8th hole. You've never been able to do that before. 15, all of a sudden, there's so much space right, if you did end up going over there. And, oh, like 13 too. You know that it's always there, but you can't‑‑ it just doesn't feel the same without the people here. 
So I think both spatially and the way it will feel playing this course, especially about Amen Corner, and you think about the cheers that go around the golf course, I think that will be a big difference.

Q. And what do you think it will be like teeing off on 10, the two‑tee start? 
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I actually did that last year in the last round or third round or something. Yeah, again, like a small difference. I think‑‑ will that make a difference? Yeah, it could do because normally, like you say, the way the rhythm of the round goes, you play the front, and you have some chances to get through a few holes, and then you know you've always got certain chances, like 13, 14, 15, 16. You can get on a bit of a running time. 
So I think with that switching and the rhythm of the round changing, that might be a little bit different. But at the same time, you always know you're going to play all 18 holes. It's just a slightly different order. 

Q. Is there any shot in particular you saw out there that you normally wouldn't see because of the fans? You mentioned 15, there's room, right? 
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Good question, actually. I think it's more visual at times. When you see 8‑‑ when you go to the back pins on 8, you always know you can go a little bit long of the green because there's a grandstand there. You can hit it, and you won't be fast away. But now you don't have that grandstand to hit off 15 right. It would be like 2 right or 13, the layup just seems‑‑ all of a sudden you're looking at a scoreboard and a TV tower that you really didn't used to see. It was just people. 
I think just you're looking at shots that you probably knew you could hit anyway. They just actually look way more accessible now. You're just looking straight at them instead of working it out.

Q. It seems like part of the unwritten history at the Masters is the older guys helping some of the younger guys, especially during practice rounds. Did anybody kind of mentor you your first couple times here? 
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, I tried to like book practice rounds with‑‑ I played with Woosy and Sandy Lyle, a little bit. They were guys, obviously, from the same kind of nation, Scotland, Wales, England. I knew them anyway, so I felt comfortable with them, and they kind of helped me straight off. 
I guess these days, because I've got friends like Rosie or (indiscernible) and stuff that have been here a long time, you can always pick up snippets of information from those guys that have played it like 15 times. I think there's never‑‑ you can never learn enough around here. There's always something new. There's always like a little snippet somewhere you hear, and you're like, oh, yeah. For sure, experience around this course plays the best (inaudible) the more guys you can talk to it, it happens.

Q. Is there anything in particular that maybe Woosy says to you that you're like, oh, man, that's something I never would have thought of otherwise. 
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: There's a few shots that they might play that you just want to know. That can be on any hole really. They might have a kinky way of playing something or something different, and you just watch it, and you think, oh, yeah, that makes sense. They've just been here so often, and they've played those shots so often that it actually comes pretty natural to them. You've got to work that shot out and try that. 
I think it's just the way they see the course or the way they know how it plays and how they've played it for so long, I think you just watch them and take it in.

Q. Does it seem strange at all‑‑ with it being so quiet, more so than usual, do you feel like‑‑ does it feel like it's not the Masters in some ways? 
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I know what you mean. I think everything‑‑ you definitely‑‑ majors are different, but at the same time, there's always an energy that you get from the crowd, even on a Monday, that just isn't there. At the same time, it's a Major. They're all career defining weeks. It doesn't make much difference in how you feel, but I do think there's an energy that comes off of crowds, and especially at majors. There's always noise like the rumblings, even when it's quiet, nobody's cheering, there's always noise everywhere. 
I think everybody's grown up watching golf with fans, with crowds, the Masters with the patrons, and it's just not there anymore. Hopefully, soon it will be back. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT