U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2018
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A 63 from Tommy Fleetwood, the European Number 1.  When did you truly know you were back in the Championship on this final day?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Well, I honestly never really thought I was out of it.  I just needed a good start.  You never know what's going to happen.
And obviously, we knew they would have made it a bit softer today.  Looking at the pins, you knew they were going to be more accessible.  I knew I was kind of in it teeing off, but you still have to get off to that good start.  4 under through seven, and it was game on.
Great to get a yard on that back nine.  All the way around, I always felt like I could get myself back in it.  It's funny, though, when you finish, you always feel like you've kind of missed your shot, but we'll see.
Q. You had looks on 16.  You had looks on 17.  Let's take a look at the 18th.  You had a phenomenal drive under all that pressure.  Here's your approach to the 18th.  Talk us through it.
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: It kind of settled nice, and it was two yards further than yesterday.  I hit a 6 iron and pulled it left.  But I knew that the distance was going to be okay.  I mean, it actually died a little bit.  It was a little bit slower than I thought.  I knew what the score was for, but if I could go back and give it a little bit more pace, give it a little bit more line.
I actually hit the par I wanted to, but it was so steep, that green, it was a bit slower than what I thought.  I made great putts coming down that back nine.  So it's easy to just look at 16, 18, where I had chances, because that is essentially what it comes down to.  But I made so many good putts today.  I mean, to sit here with a chance, I'll take it straight away this morning.
Q. You're one of only two champs to shoot 63 in a U.S. Open.
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, but I wanted 62.
Q. Yes, but a brave effort.  What do you do now?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: We'll go and relax a little bit and just see.  Only time will tell what's going to happen today at the course.  If it was like yesterday, I'd feel a little more comfortable than now.
No, but just sit, relax.  It's my first ever Father's Day as a father so I'll try to spend some time with Frankie and Clare and just wait and see.  There's nothing I can do now.
Q. Little Frankie was only born when you became European No. 1.  It's your first Father's Day.  What a day to do what you have just done.  Well done.
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Thanks very much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT