TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 5, 2017
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Final round 68.  What did you find this weekend?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: There wasn't loads different about my game.  I played really good yesterday.  Yesterday I played great.  There was a low one in there.  Most pretty much all week, struggled to get the putts in, a lot of makeable putts.  Not ones that you hole all the time, but the ones that if you're going to build a score, those are the ones that you make.
So kind of a frustrating week in those terms.  Today it's a bit up-and-down.  Made some good par saves and made some birdie chances but went bogey-free at the weekend and played some really nice golf.  It's been a good week.  You can't lose sight of how sort of well you have to play or what is a good result.
Q. Looks like you're going to maintain your lead in The Race to Dubai.
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Well, Justin Rose is peaking.  I had quite a bit of time off sort of late summer.  Had other priorities at the time.
I do feel fresh.  I think I have the chance, if anything's not right at the moment, I feel fresh enough that I can practise or I could put in a couple extra hour's practise.  Normally this time of the year, it's been a long stretch and it's been a long season and people are getting tired.  For me, I feel great.  Two events left and hopefully we can get close in one.
Q. What is the game plan going into the final two events?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Just the same.  Every tournament we play, we try to win.  I feel if I can take most of my game this week, should bear me in good stead.  I'll do a bit of work on my putting.  Just try to build a bit of momentum.  This week I had no momentum and last week I had no momentum.  They have been okay weeks but just nothing quite going forward that way, and that's all you need, really.
But that is the game.  You have to stick in there when it not quite all there and then take your chances when it is.  See what we turn up with next week and go again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT