ITALIAN OPEN
October 15, 2017
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on a 67?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Played well.  I didn't hole that many putts.  I holed a couple on 15 and 16.  Obviously didn't do enough to win.  But all in all, it's been a great week.
The last three rounds have been great.  Just strange, that 3-putt on 14, kind of leaves you feeling sick.  Like I thought about that for my last four holes and I couldn't get that out of my said, even though I finished well.
It's a Rolex Series event, they are massive events and it's been a great result at the end.
Q. With the scoring how it's been, was the start not really what you wanted for sort of momentum to get into the round?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, of course, you see Kiradech's start and then I was just parring -- I had my chances but didn't take them.
But still, I was 2-under through nine, and you know what, there's always chances for birdie.  So you know you can get something going.
And I was concentrating on my own stuff, really.  I thought if I could shoot a 5- or 6-under, that would have been a great day, great week and I had that in my head, and obviously 14 was kind of the show stopper if you like, and a couple of birdies to move me up which has done me a world of good.
But a hot start would have definitely helped.
Q. That said, you've extended your lead in The Race to Dubai.  Your thoughts on that?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, good stuff.  I mean, yeah, at the start of the week, there was such a big point made of we're all playing together, and that first day, I played poor.
Yeah, any week -- not that I'm ticking them down, I'm still trying to win tournaments, but gaining is massive, really.  I've had a good week, good result.  I think it was really nice -- I've not played a lot recently and it was nice to have my juices flowing on Sunday being a little bit in contention -- a little bit out of it but kind of in contention.
Like I say, gaining is always a good thing.  If I can do that every week coming in, then we'll be happy at the end.
Q. If you look at the last three rounds, that must give you a massive amount of confidence going into The Race to Dubai.
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, I played well enough to win for three days.  Just that first day I didn't play well enough to make the cut.  Golf is a four-day tournament.  I still felt like I could have a chance, even with a level par, and it shows I could have; a couple more putts, a couple more chances taken, and you never know.
But yeah, the last three rounds were really good, solid golf.  Made one bogey in three rounds.  And yeah, it was good.  So I think it's been nice.
Got a week off next week but it's been nice these two weeks after having so much time off.  I've had, some might say, life-changing events happen, and to come back and play good golf has been nice.
Q. How much are you looking forward to the challenge of winning The Race to Dubai?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, big time.  It's a strange scenario where -- you never look at what other players are doing but all of a sudden you start -- you've got to stay away from looking at what Sergio is doing or what Jon is doing or whoever wins this tournament, maybe they get close.
You have to just keep your eye on what you're doing.  I think it's challenging mentally to make sure that you keep going, there's no doubt about it.  It's a massive dream of mine to win The Race to Dubai; always will be, whether it happens this year or not.
So there's some mental challenges in just trying to stick to your game and keep trying to improve every week, concentrating week-in, week-out.  It's tough -- it's a nice challenge; of course it is.  It's the complete opposite end of the spectrum from trying to save your card, which I've done, as well.  But I think it's great and it's a great position to be in.  I'm very grateful for it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT