ITALIAN OPEN
October 14, 2017
Tommy Fleetwood
Matt Fitzpatrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Quiet day and then 13-under for the last two rounds, how do you sum it up?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: First day I was poor, and you kind of -- it just shows the golf course, it's not -- as low as the scoring is, you're not going to play well, you're not going to score and it's going to be a struggle.  I had to sort of stay in it and the last two days have been a lot better.
Days like today, always helps when you have two of you that are going really low.  I don't know why that is but it just happens that way.  I mean, yeah, yesterday I wanted to give myself a chance to play the weekend.  I know the cut was going to be quite low.  So you had to have a good round to make the weekend and give yourself a chance of shooting a low score, and today I did.
Q. You shot a low score, 64, and he beat you by a shot.  What was it like out there together?
MATT FITZPATRICK: Yeah, it was very good.  Like Tommy said, we sort of tend to spur each other on when you're both playing well and both our caddies were talking to each other -- but yeah, it was a great day and sort of delighted to put myself back into the tournament a little bit.
Q. Playing conditions are ideal, but the pin positions also there, allowing you to attack?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I mean, yeah, but I think with the greens being so small, if you hit the green, you've got a birdie putt, haven't you.  You've got a good chance.
You say the pins are there to attack but then you go at one and you miss it, you're just off and you have a horrible little shot like I did on 12.  I pulled it a bit and I'm like 30 foot from the hole, Duf it and make bogey.  But that's the kind of thing that can happen.  You stick it on the greens, you've always got a chance.  That's just the way that this course plays, really.
Q. In your last three starts, a win, 11th and 15th, what's clicked in the game?  You were on a bit of a quiet spell before that.
MATT FITZPATRICK: Yeah, we've just been working on a few things with my swing.  Sort of had a meeting before as a team on what we needed to do to get better and really sort of worked on those things, and so far, they have been working.
But for me, I just want to become more consistent and more like this guy and sort of Top-20 pretty much every week.  I think that's sort of what I've been aiming for.  It's been working the last few weeks.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT