ITALIAN OPEN
October 14, 2017
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on the day?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I played well.  Yesterday was a big day in terms of, I struggled on day one.  Day two, you know that it's going to be low scoring and you have to keep yourself in the event.
I shot 5-under, which could have been -- I putted well on the back nine, could have been a bit better, but 5-under was a really good day, and you had to give yourself a chance if you see low scores out there.  As long as you're in play, you have a chance to shoot one of them.  Luckily today, I played really nicely and made a lot of birdies.
Q. 13-under for two days, does it get much better than that?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: We'll see.  I'll try and keep it going.  Yeah, it's been a really good two days.  We all know the scores out there and you just have to keep being patient and keep going.
Luckily enough I got off to fast-ish starts and yet today, a little wobble on that back nine where 11 had a chance.  12 made a soft bogey.  Didn't birdie the par 5.  I wanted to sort of be 6-under.
For some reason I had a number in my head and I wanted to get to like seven, and birdied 15, 16, 17 and made a really good par on 18.  That's always important because finishing with a bogey can leave a sour taste in your mouth.  Yeah, it's been a great day.
Q. How pleased were you to finish off the way you did?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, big time.  Helps when your playing partner is going at it, as well.  I had a really good mental approach.  It's easy when you start off fast and it don't quite happen for a few holes, because you think you're on for a great score.  It seems to get a little bit frustrating but I wanted to carry on and keep going, a couple of good putts on 15, 16.  Finish was brilliant.
I have no idea what the leaders are going to get to but I couldn't ask for anymore.
Q. How important was the par save on 18 to winning the championship?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: We'll see, won't we.  I think even though you've finished the day, it's still a little bit of a momentum-keeper.  Yeah, you don't -- when you're that far back after two rounds, you can't give shots away.  I really wasn't looking at trying to win the tournament.
I knew I had to shoot a low one to get back in it but it's hard when you know there's low scores out and the leaders are on, what they are.  You just can't judge what they are going to shoot.  One of them could go out and shoot 7-under again, 20-under, and you're nearly back out of it again.
See what happens this afternoon.  But just happy to put myself back up there and shoot a low round.  You never know with one day to go, but just keep your head down and keep pushing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT