ITALIAN OPEN
October 14, 2017
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you reflect on your day's work?  
MATT FITZPATRICK: It was brilliant.  Played nice.  I know everyone says I made a couple of good saves but those putts were three or four feet that were saves, but yeah, sort of didn't take my opportunities on the two par 5s that were good chances.  So yeah, could have been a couple better, but you take it, definitely.   
 Q.  What was different today from the previous two days?  What pleased you most about your play?  
MATT FITZPATRICK: I think definitely been playing well the sort of first two days.  Been great off the tee and putting myself in position on the fairways, which is what you have to do around here to sort of give yourself a chance to go low.   
But today, just sort of hit my irons a lot better.  Just gave myself a lot more chances inside 15 feet and the putter was good, as well.   
 Q.  How good was it to play with Tommy?  
MATT FITZPATRICK: It's great.  You know, it was interesting for me, just to see where his game's at, you know.  I can't remember the last time I played with him.  The last time I played with him I know for definite was my first-ever event as a professional.   
Obviously he's got it on a string at the minute, but as you say, we tend to feed off each other on the golf course and we both played well.   
 Q.  What will you take from that round going into tomorrow, and do you feel you have a chance to win this tournament?  
MATT FITZPATRICK: Yeah, you never know.  Another one like that or two better, even, and sort of put yourself right up there.  Frankie shot 22-under last year to win, so you know, probably going to need something similar to that to sort of really give myself a chance.  It will need to be a low one tomorrow.   
 Q.  Talk us through the chip-in on 5?  
MATT FITZPATRICK: Yeah, I thought I got a good read on it and Jamie sort of said -- about Tommy's ball, so I thought it was too high, but sort of pulled me off it and said maybe it's a bit higher.  Came out perfectly.  Rolled in pretty much dead weight.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT