ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 6, 2017
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  63, new course record, Carnoustie.  How did that sounds?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Sounds good, doesn't it.  Don't really think too much about it whilst you're playing; and to hole that one on the last and as you said, it was a course record.  So all in all, a good day's work, wasn't it.   
 Q.  Think of all the great players that have played this fantastic golf course and you've shot the best score of all of them.  That's some achievement, isn't it?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, it is.  I mean, I think I hit it in some places that you probably can't hit it when the open comes around.  Any time you have a course record, especially on a golf course like this, it's brilliant to have.  Yeah, very proud at the moment.   
 Q.  You're a new dad and have plenty going on, and you've only played one week in seven leading into this event.  How do you show this sort of form on this golf course with such little golf?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, I mean, when I turned up -- I had been practising whilst I was at home but I had a week where I didn't do anything, and that week feels like a year when you're in the middle of it.   
I was kind of pleasantly surprised when I come on the range on Tuesday.  I hit it all right but yesterday, I played okay but I really enjoyed being, you know, being back playing and being back in competition where every shot counts.  Doesn't matter how much you play at home or what you do, it's not the same.   
Today, I played well.  Putted well.  It just unravels really.  Sometimes it does that.  Most of the times, those are your best rounds when you don't quite realise what you're doing.   
But I had that really hot streak from 11 where I had good chances, 7, 8, 9, all chances that burnt the edge.  Yeah, made the most of the par fives and holed a couple of putts, and there you go.   
 Q.  A win this week, is that The Race to Dubai done and dusted?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I doubt it.  Let's concentrate on tomorrow first.  I would love to win a tournament.  I'd love to win this tournament.   
So I mean, you know, the goal every week is to try and win whatever you're playing in.  With such big events coming up, I don't think anything will be over until it's finally done.  But if I can keep making that cushion a little bit bigger, then it will feel a lot nicer.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT