ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
October 3, 2020
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. How testing was that today?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   To be fair, there was a period early doors where it was fine.  It was playable and I think as the rain got worse, obviously you get wetter and the day gets a bit longer, but when we sort of got to the edge of the golf course and the wind picked up, the rain, this is the worst it's been all day.  There was a time when it was playable and doable, as people were showing with scores and now it's gotten very, very brutal.
Q. I was waiting for a smile.  A couple of missed putts, you take it on the chin, the tee shot on 14 --
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Yeah, that was a beauty, that one.  The one on 12, like I hit the tee shot on 12 and I think it like -- I don't know, 190 to the hole, 5-iron never left the pin.  It is surprising when you hit some shots, and that one on 14, it gave me the yardage and there was literally no point in even discussing a club.  It was like, pick a club and create something with it, and that one, again, looked up and it was nice to see where it was going.  Yeah, those 2-iron shots, 12 and 14, those were the best shots of the day for sure for me.  And yeah, it came at a good time where, like you say, missed a couple of putts, but nothing's easy.  Everything is hard, and I hit good putts, as well.  Burnt the edge but hit the lines I wanted to.
Q. And 18?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   And 18, finishing with a birdie.  I said on the fairway, again, stood over the ball and I was pretty prepared for any scenario after hitting that one.  I could have duffed it or shanked it or done whatever and wouldn't have been too surprised.
Actually where it went, it was the most surprising thing.  The putt from two feet out looked like it was going in.  That one felt really, really good to finish the day, shoot 2-under out there, I just felt like I won today, like the battle against the golf course after that.  It was a nice way to finish.
Q. How hard is that rain?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Yeah, it was pretty relentless I think.  Normally you get maybe a downpour -- normally when it's like this, you can't play.  The fact that you're out there all day, literally it didn't stop, like the rain didn't stop for half a second and just got worse and progressively worse and windy throughout day.  It was pretty tough towards the end.  The golf shots I was hitting -- you have to give yourself a pat on the back sometimes, and I'm really, really happy with how I hit the shots coming in.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT