HNA OPEN DE FRANCE
June 29, 2017
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You stood on 10 yesterday in the practise round and put two in the water.  You parred it today and you've come in with a round of 67, your lowest round on this golf course.  How are you feeling?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Very nice.  I did hit two in the water.  I wanted to get those out of the way, I guess.  I played really well today start to finish.  Never really got out of position.  Anything around par around here is always good.  I mean, yeah, might not have -- that is my best score by a long way but felt fine out there today.  Felt like I hit it well.  It was just, yeah, felt comfy and 67.   
 Q.  No dropped shots on the card and there won't be too many players that go around the opening round without a dropped shot.  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I made par on 9 and that was my only par, as well.  If you're not making bogeys around here, you're going to move up.   
So I made the most of it today, really.  But like I say, I hit it well.  I holed a couple of really long putts, as well, on the first, and 14, I think it was.  It was just one of them really good days.   
 Q.  Obviously great form at the moment, recent weeks.  Do you feel a weight of expectation; the fact that you have been playing so well?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: It's better than playing rubbish and everybody expecting you to miss the cut, isn't it.  I'm enjoying it.  Like I say, make the most of it when you play well.  The game can change one day to the next, and just enjoy the good rounds when they come.   
But I'm doing the work.  Feel like I'm -- whether I play well or not, I feel like I'm sort of improving little things all the time and that's the main thing about the game, just keep moving forward week-in, week-out.  You know how the game is.  Going to have your bad weeks, going to have your good ones, but just keep going.  Stay level and keep happy.   
 Q.  You spoke mid round, you were 3-under, and no bogeys on the card and improved on that to finish 4.  Just how good a score do you think 67 is out there?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, you didn't curse me, did you.  Yeah, I played lovely.  It's one of them courses -- I did play well, and sort of when you're playing really well and you're hitting the spot you want to hit, you feel like you could make a score.  But it's one of them courses where it's so difficult; yeah, I was lucky that I didn't get myself out of position all day, and you've got to make the most out here.   
Made a lovely 2 on and 8 it was just a very, very nice day.  Enjoyed it.   
 Q.  You're up to a career-high of 21 in the World Rankings.  Obviously your status on The European Tour now is pretty huge, second in The Race to Dubai.  When you come to an event like this with the status you have, how does it change things from when you used to come here years ago?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Doesn't, really.  Still have to play, haven't you.  Doesn't matter what your status is; if you play bad, you're going to go the wrong way.   
 Q.  They look after you pretty well, don't they?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: They do.  Yeah, it's a great event.  It's great having people like Jon come and play, Jon Rahm, like I said earlier.  But everybody loves this course.  Everybody says it's one of the best of the year.  They do look after you.  It's nice, isn't it.  Put the work in and play well, you get treated well.  Yeah, it's lovely.   
But I'm enjoying it just the same.  I enjoy practicing and I enjoy playing, and that's the main bit.  You've got to turn up here, haven't you, and play, and that's your job.   
 Q.  Let's talk about your coach, Alan Thompson.  Obviously you worked with him as a youngster, did very well and then you went away for awhile and came back.  I know one of his big ambitions was to go to the Masters.  Did you take him this year, and if, so how excited was he?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, I took him.  He had the family.  He made the most of it, he really did.  I think it's his last thing he wanted to do in golf or it's one thing he always wanted to do.   
When we got there, it was a big deal.  We drove in, I think it was either Sunday or Monday morning, Magnolia Lane didn't really bother him, it was fine.  We were just chatting away.  But as soon as we got out of the car, he said, "You've got to leave me alone."  He went off somewhere to have a moment to himself.   
He's been great for me.  We've been doing really good work and my swing is in the best place it's ever been.  And you know, we get on great and he's a brilliant coach.  He's been great for me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT