U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 16, 2017
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TOMMY FLEETWOOD: But at the same time, I mean, it's going to be great.  Like I said, I've never done this before.  I've never played a U.S. Open, so tomorrow will be a very cool experience.  It's still Saturday, 36 holes is a very long time in a U.S. Open.  Anything can happen on TOUR.  There are always ups and downs out there.  But I think with how long the course is and how long the days are, I'm not sure.  I won't worry.
Q. How would you mark your first few days?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: High.  I didn't quite have my swing early on today.  I had a few rounds, I hit a couple of drives right on the range, didn't really worry about it.  And then obviously I had 1, 2, 3, and an iron right in.
I mean, the fairways are quite forgiving, but as soon as you get a little bit off line -- I think everybody concentrates on the fescue, even if you're in the semi rough, you don't get any help out of the fairway.  Twice yesterday I had no chance.  It was literally no semi rough here.  It's thick.  So once you get out of position, that's when the course is going to bite you.
But early on today when I hit off my game, I putted it, sure helped me out.  That could have been a great start of the round really.  I made a great up-and-down on 2, and I had two great shots for birdie.  So switch it around and it's a very different feel after the first few holes.  So whether it wasn't right --
Q. So after 10?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I don't know.  It was after 10.
Q. What are some of the drastic changes that you've made to your game this year?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: It was more last year when I changed.  I went back to my old coach and had one of my best mates caddying, and I think that can't be underestimated having your friend with you, whether you're in leading the U.S. Open or (indiscernible).  No matter what that's something when you're always going to walk up the 18th green with your best mate.  I think those two things and a lot of hard work, really.  I think it's easy to lose track.  It's very easy to take off on your own path, and before you know it, you're too far down there, and it's a long way back.  We had to come back sooner than I thought, so that's been nice really.
Q. What would be your schedule going forward?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: My schedule this year is set.  I'm back in Europe until after the Open, and then Bridgestone, U.S. PGA, and I'm going to be playing the Wyndham, and then it's our final series in Europe.  So that's my series already set for the year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT