THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2017
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I played a couple of practice rounds, like nine holes, and just getting out on the course, I think the first thing you realize is how tough it is.  If the wind picks up, then everybody says how firm it gets during the week, and if you're missing the fairways it's very, very tough.  I think that's the first that first hits you rather than how much enjoyment you're having out there.  You get out on the course, you think, ooh, around here you've got to play well.  But I think just the whole atmosphere of the tournament is great.  It is true, it's the fifth major effectively, and I think it's just another one of them tournaments with the best field in the world, and any time you're coming to play one of these, it's just a great feeling.
Q. What kind of preparation goes into this week compared to other tournaments of the year?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Well, it should be quite similar.  I think for me it's a new golf course, and with the way the greens are pretty firm, and there's a few run-offs, so you do have to do a bit more short game around the greens, find a few misses, find where you can't go, find where you can go, and just get comfortable with some shots.  I think off the tee, it makes you shape the ball both ways off the tee, so definitely when you stand on the tee you have to pick your lines out very well and you have to feel the shot a bit more.  And other than that, just get on with your job and get on with what you normally do and just make sure you get enough practice in and feel rested.
Q. What are your thoughts on 17?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I knocked it straight in the water yesterday, so I've got that one out of the way hopefully.  Yeah, I mean, it's actually not that big.  People say it's bigger than what they think, but it's not.  And I think the green is tough.  I think once you hit the green, it's not too bad.  If there's no wind or there's a little bit of wind, you can knock a wedge on the green, but then you can be left with a horrible putt.  I think those two put together make it a really great par-3, and I think that's what people don't realize.  It's one of them, if you made four 4s you'd be happy and it's only a wedge, so it's just -- most great par-3s are like that.
Q. And your thought process when you leave 16 green and start walking to 17 tee?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Depends whether I've made a birdie or not.  16 is actually a tough hole, tough par-5, because you can hit a great tee shot, and then the way that the green sits, if you -- you can miss it either side and you're in a bit of trouble with the water on the right, so 16 is a tough hole.  I think you really do have to take each shot as it comes.  I played 17 quite early yesterday, so there wasn't that many people around.  There was a few, but I'm guessing on a Saturday and Sunday afternoon with the atmosphere, it must be amazing.  Hopefully I'll be there feeling that, but just try and concentrate on each shot as it comes because there's no easy shots coming down the stretch here.
Q. What would be considered a success for you this week?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: It's a good question, actually.  Obviously everybody can stand up and say, well, I want to win, I feel like I've got a good chance.  I don't have massive, major expectations.  I want to enjoy it.  I want to see how my game holds up on the course, and hopefully I'll be here for many more years to come, so it would be great to see the course for the first time and do well.  But yeah, just go out there and try and play my best, enjoy it.  If you play well, you never quite know.  I kind of showed at events like México where you might not have had much expectation and then almost won a WGC, and in the end finished second, anything can happen; anybody if they play well is going to have a chance.  But yeah, just try and not put too much pressure, not get too excited or too -- don't try and force anything really, just play and see how we do.
Q. And if you happened to win this week, what would that do for your career?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: That would be very nice to have on the CV.  Yeah, we'll think of that when it comes to it, but PLAYERS Champion has got a very nice ring to it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT