ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 22, 2017
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. This has been a good weekends.
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: It's been a good week.  I didn't play well Thursday, Friday, but you know, the last two rounds of golf, you've got to put in four.
Today Martin started off very hot; Kiradech started off very hot, and I was sort of lagging behind a bit.  But I just thought, keep going.  You never know it's a tough day really.  The pins are tucked away and it's very windy, especially at the start.  The chip-in on 10, birdie on 11, changed everything all of a sudden from nowhere and I was leading.
It's hard to make birdies coming in.  14, tough hole.  15, tough pin.  They are all tucked away, so it's hard to make birdies.  I hit a great shot into 16 and then the last I got a little bit lucky.  It was only going one way if I was going to miss it and got a bit lucky and managed to drop.
Q. It was a quiet front nine.  How much did that kick-start the round?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, it did.  I played fine the front nine.  It was just tough.  Martin was making it look so easy, and so was Kiradech to be fair.  I was just plugging along.  It was really hard to make birdies, and they just started off on fire.  10 was a big turning point, really.  You can quite easily chip that to six-foot and miss and make five.  Chipped it in and made three and birdied the next.  Those two holes were the big difference.
Q. How much did you look at the leaderboards?  It was so tight, wasn't it.
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I knew where I was.  Like I say, you never really know what's going to happen.  Dustin, Pablo behind, they can make birdies and you just have to keep going.  Especially with 17 and 18 were playing pretty easy.  So you'd have to think somebody could birdie both.
Q. Just tell us what this means to you, this victory.
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, I thought maybe second win would come sooner to be honest.  Yeah, it's been a massive comeback.  I made it up to Finn, who has been caddying for me, one of my best mates.  We made the switch and not a lot of people thought it would work, and proved them all wrong.  It feels great.
Q. Haven't won since 2013, and you catch a break with the drive at 18, get the ball above your feet.  What were you thinking in that situation?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I did get a good break.  Took me a few drops playing to get the perfect spot but I just had a go at it.  You've got to take those chances if you want to win.  To be honest, that was easier than the 4-putt to win in the end.
Q. Looking at your career, what would you say --
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Hot and cold.  I had a really good hard time from July 2015 to July last year where I really struggled with my game.  It's been an awkward curve.  The only thing left was let's get a win, but you know, you keep knocking on the door, it would come.  I didn't really think it would be this week.  Just shows a lot can happen in golf.
Q. Why do you think you're so popular?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I don't know.  I'd rather somebody else answer that question.  I'm not really sure.  I love my job and I generally do get on with everybody.  I like talking and I like chatting to people and meeting new people.  It's nice that a few people support me and relate I guess.  It's really nice that you have that support, and definitely days like today, they can carry you over the line.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT