BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 15, 2016
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Played nice, I started off really good.  My game felt good early on and hit a little bit of a ropey patch.  Maybe at the end of it, I didn't make as many birdies as I wanted to, especially coming down 15, 16, 17, 18.  But overall, really good day.  Really solid performance again.
Q. Yesterday you said you moaned your way to good golf.  Are you smiling a little bit more today?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I didn't moan as much today.  No, I didn't have as much to moan about early on.  I had to just set off with being normal today.
Today I felt quite good and my game felt all right.  My irons weren't quite on, and then I missed a couple tee shots toward the end, but overall like I say, one bogey on a Saturday, is always good, especially with the pins tucked away.
Q. Elaborate on that, because it was tricky, wasn't it.  There's not quite the wealth of low scores we have seen.
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, I haven't really looked yet.  But the pins, I think looking back on it, the pins are definitely in some tougher spots.  It's harder to get near them.  15 and 18, the par 5s that have been birdie holes, 15 was an unbelievable pin at the back.  I hit it in the front bunker and couldn't get to it, otherwise could go off the back.
And then 18, there I hit a chip that wasn't really that far out, and it makes you stupid chipping over the back of that green with the slope coming into it.  Definitely took some away today.  I haven't looked yet at what they are going to do tomorrow, but today was definitely a bit tricky.
Q. You're in a tidy place, aren't you?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, I'd like to be a couple closer, but yeah, it's golf, isn't it.  Anything can happen.  I think just keep concentrating on what I'm doing and like I say, my goal has always been as I've been working my way back to playing good golf, first of all, it was making cuts and then getting as high a finish as you can and getting better rounds together, better scores.
Tomorrow that's all I'll be looking to do, really, is see if my game holds up, if it stays solid, and if I can put four rounds together, it will be a great week.
Q. This is already a further step, isn't it, to be competitive into the final round?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, exactly.  I haven't really been -- I've put steady results in recently but not had that contending on a Sunday, up there on a Sunday.  So yeah, another step in the right direction.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT