UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 10, 2016
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  After a solid day, painful way to end?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, bad position off the tee.  Still had a decent shot at it.  I just needed to draw an iron and I didn't.  Hit the chip, hit the putt, made 5.  I played great all day.  I really hardly missed a shot.  It's out of position off the tee and I didn't really get it in position after.  The rest of it was really good.   
 Q.  How do you feel for tomorrow?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I'd like to be a bit better but yeah, I think the way the course sets up, margins are so small, so yeah, I'm still going to have to go out there and play well and make some birdies probably.  But I think, yeah, I think the margins are so small that anybody from 5- , 6-under could win tomorrow.   
 Q.  You did have a beautiful eagle on 13.  Tell us about that.  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: My juices were flowing at the time.  I was feeling great.  Ripped my tee shot and I said walking off the tee, I said, let's eagle this.  Got up there and had like the perfect yardage with a 5-wood, and 5-wood is my favourite club.  I just hit a good shot and had a six-footer and holed that one.  I had missed a few putts really up until that point and the more I missed, the more I was getting pumped up, and I just played that hole great.   
 Q.  Are you going to be aggressive tomorrow?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Just play the same really.  You can't be aggressive at all around the course.  It's very difficult.  I think you can -- I've never been here before, but judging from the practice rounds and when I played, the minute you try and just push that little bit too hard around here, I think that's when you get caught out.   
You don't have to be aggressive; you have to hit in the fairway, and you can make birdies because you can control your second shot into the green, and generally, you want to be below the hole.  You don't have that many long irons, and you have mid to short irons in and from there you can give yourself chances.  But you have to be in the fairway.  I think just stick to the same game plan and hopefully hit it the same.   
 Q.  How important would it be for your career to win this tomorrow?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Well, it would be great, wouldn't it.  I haven't won for a long time, and last year -- I had a year out of the game really.  I was playing dreadful from mid 2015 to mid this year.  So I've sort of been on a path since August, if you like, getting my game back.   
 Q.  Injury?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: No, just playing dreadful.  Just rubbish.  My game's been coming back and I've had some good results towards the end of the year.   
Yeah, it would be great to win.  Golf-wise it would be great to start the year and finish the year, if you like, with a win.  It would be great.   
 Q.  What did you change or work on to get over that?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I went back to my old coach and I've had one of my best mates on the bag since July pretty much.  Things have just turned around.  I've worked hard.  We had to do some changes and we had to put a lot of hours into it, and sometimes when you're doing it all and you're shooting 78 in The Open first round, you just think, what's the point.   
But it began to show, and I've been having a nice time on the course.  Like I say, caddie and coach have made the biggest difference and I've been enjoying my job again.   
 Q.  What you're saying about the play style, you can't be aggressive around here; does that go against your normal style, or are you having to restrain yourself or does that suit you?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I don't mind really.  Just happy hitting golf shots.  Wherever the golf shot is, I'm happy hitting it.  I love courses like this.  This is honestly one of the best courses I've played on Tour.  Just shows, you don't have to have length.   
It just sets up great, and if you don't play well, I mean, luckily I've had three days of hitting it pretty well, but if you don't hit it well, you're going to get caught out straightaway.  I've got another day where I have to hit it well but I think the course is great.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT