COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 27, 2016
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 5-under par, how happy are with you that?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Very.  Any time you go around this golf course, it's not the easiest, and the wind, it was up, but it wasn't too bad because it never played too far -- it was never that into us, so it wasn't too bad.
But I think I must have parred all the par 5s and those are the holes you should be picking shots up.  But apart from that, I hit it lovely.  I was never really in a position to make bogey, and when you do that, you should shoot a score.
Q. A missed the cut at Abu Dhabi; what did you find at the start of this week that led to that performance today?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Just the same stuff to be honest.  I struggled the last few months of last year.  I've been working hard, working on the right things, and yeah, I played all right last week actually.
For some reason, I tend to struggle around there.  I missed the cut by one I think three times now.  It's just the same stuff.  You get up in the morning, go on the range and work on the things you're working on.  Eventually it will come together and today was just one of those days.
Q. Playing alongside Broberg and Cabrera-Bello, all of you the same score; how much does it help when you're playing with guys that are also going low?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: It's funny how it does work like that, but if you have the momentum in your group and you all seem to play well, and then if a couple of you are sluggish, then it brings it down -- it's funny how that works, really, because it shouldn't be like that at all but it does actually play a part.  It was nice to play with them.  We played at quite a good pace today.  Everything was moving really well.  You just don't really think about it too much, just play.
Q. I hear the driving was very good but you holed a little beauty across the eighth green.  Just a word on the putting, because you played last week where the greens were considerably faster.  Having to adjust this week, how hard is that?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: It's part of your job, isn't it.  Just get on the putting green and get on the greens and putt and you'll figure it out.  But yeah, at the 8th, that was about as far left as I was going to go, left about a 30-footer and rolled that one in.
Yeah, the greens are obviously a bit more grainy than last week and they have to leave them a bit longer because we don't know what the weather is going to do.  But it's fine.  It was nice to hole a couple of good ones, really, coming in, because I felt like I was kind of leaking shots out there.  When you're in it well, you always feel like you leave some out there.
Q. What are your thoughts on shooting a 67 to start in breezy conditions like this?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Nice thoughts.  Yeah, it was windy but I think the angle of the wind that was on for the golf course, it wasn't too bad.  Apart from 10, all the par 5s played downwind.  There was never any -- tough holes can be sort of 3, 5, 6, 8 and the wind wasn't too bad on them.  So as windy as it was, it can get slow but it wasn't that much of a grind.
I'm really happy.  It was nice to get out there and actually seeing the ball go where I wanted it to go.  I just had a good feeling all day really and managed to keep my swing for 18 holes and 5-under is a great start.
Q. Sounds like the game has been frustrating for a little while.
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: It's up-and-downs, isn't it.  It's just golf.  Obviously I lost my way a little bit last year but I've been working hard.  Sat down and working on the right things.  It's coming.
You know, today was the best I've played in six, seven months, so you know, no matter what happens for the rest of the week, I've played a round of golf where I've seen myself hitting it like I want to.  It's encouraging.
Q. Sitting down means taking a very analytical approach of what's happened?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, I was working on the right things but it's just about -- it's weird, because as much time as we kind of get, when you're playing, you don't seem to have the time to sit down and sit back and think about what you're doing.  You literally are travelling here there and everywhere and you just turn up and keep your head down and do what you're doing.
You kind of step away from it, it really can do you more good than bashing balls all day.  The break was definitely needed for me.  I think I'm going in the right direction.
Q. Conscious of the wind picking up, but dare say this is a lovely foundation.
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: That would be a shame, wouldn't it, if it picked up.  No, I mean, you want it to be fair.  We don't know what the weather is going to do, but yeah, looks like the forecast is a blustery week.
Don't know when I'll be playing again now.  Might not get to play again.  Yeah, it does, it looks like it's going to be windy.  Just see what happens this afternoon.  It was calmer today than we thought it was going to be, really, so it was important to go out there and shoot a good score.  Yeah, happy.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT