BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 13, 2016
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  5-under, not bad to start in this?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, the wind was up this afternoon and then it got cold towards later on in the day, but definitely when we first went out, it was clear that it was going to be quite a tough day.  Have to make the most of your chance.  I hit it really well.  I very rarely hit it out of position and putted lovely.  It was just one of them days where every putt I hit felt lovely and overall, 5-under is a great score out there.   
 Q.  And those greens have stood the test of time during the day?  They seem pretty pure.  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, didn't really have to worry about them.  It wasn't as if anybody was complaining about spike marks or the greens looking bumpy.  The course is in perfect condition, so that's one less thing to moan about this week.   
 Q.  Does that mean there's a lot of control in the wind for you?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I don't know really.  You know, I controlled my golf ball today.  The wind definitely makes it a lot tougher.  I think to be fair, the par 5s help or there's certain holes where you'll get it down wind but a lot of times it's crosswinds and on the tougher holes, 3 and 4 today were brutes, so you get them into the wind and it makes it even harder.  Coming into 17 played long, and a couple of others, like 11.   
But end of the day, it's kind of good swings prevail, if you want to put it that way.  Anything under par, you can't have a good intuition about what a good score is, and I kind of felt like anything under par and I've had a decent afternoon.   
 Q.  And seeing you at the top of the leaderboard, as well?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I had a little gander out there, there was a couple good scores this afternoon, but this morning it was calm and wet and cold by the looks of things.  I'm not really sure if it was better afternoon or morning but it's nothing to worry about.  Yeah, top of the leaderboard is nice.   
 Q.  What does British Masters mean to you?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: It's good to have it back last year.  I actually played the British Masters when I was 17 as an amateur, and that was the last time it was on at The Belfry and last year, having it back on again, it was a superb event.  It was one of the best of the year by miles.  It was brilliant.  We're lucky to play in it.   
They do such a good job -- I'm not trying to sound corny or anything but they do such a good job this week.  It's a pleasure to play.  It's always a pleasure to play in front of home crowds, as well, and it's only one round down but hopefully we'll keep going.   
 Q.  How did you get on as a teenager?  Did you learn anything from the experience?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I had a putt mid round early, I think it was to go one off the lead or joint lead, and I looked up and missed it and that was it really.  I don't remember much else but I know I missed the cut.   
 Q.  But good experience?  Did you learn from it?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Oh, yeah, it was great.  I was very lucky to have the chance to play and I loved it.  It was brilliant, yes.  It's a shame that the tournament hasn't been on for the past few years but it's great to have it back.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT