THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2015
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Tommy, just reaction to your round today?  How pleased are you?  TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Very, in the end.  I think obviously the front nine was playing the easier, and you had to make your score on the front nine.  Once you got past 10 -- yeah, once you got past 10, then it was time to just put your head down and try and get in.  Just straight into the wind on the last few holes, they were playing as tough as they'll ever play, to be honest.  3-under is a great round this afternoon.  I don't know where it lies, but really pleased.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Well, yeah, that was disappointing, but really the first time you do anything, it's hard to expect too much.  It was just a shame with it being at home.  I had a lot of people following me, and I just didn't play very well.  But definitely a year where my game is in a different shape immensely.  I'm a different person than I was then and there is a bit more expectation on this week, but you never know what's going to come tomorrow.   Q.  It could get tougher tomorrow weather-wise.  Talk about that.  TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, there's not much to look forward to by the sounds of it.  Yeah, everybody is going to have to play in it.  That's just part of the deal, isn't it.  It's part of The Open.  We'll see what we have to deal with.   Q.  Talk about how good is the 6-under by Zach.  TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, that was pretty awesome.  He got it going early on but he hit some great shots coming in.  13, to make 3 on 13, that's one of the best 3s I've ever seen, because that was driver, 3-wood for him.  Good up-and-downs on 14, 15 and 16.  I thought he was going to make that one on 17, but a good finish for him on 18, but he played great today.  Like I say, once he got on a roll early on, then he just started.  He still played well on the back, but it's just so hard to make birdies on the back, but he played great today.   Q.  Talk about no birdies at 17 today.  TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, that's not much of a surprise.  It's pretty much a par-5 today.  I hit driver, 3-wood.   Q.  Tough pin, too.  TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, they've not been very friendly with that one, really.  Yeah, it's just a tough hole.  You've got to get your driver and whatever you've got in and then see what you can do.  But a 4 on there, you're picking up half a shot at least today.   Q.  You've got to be confident here at this course.  TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, people keep mentioning it to me, but yeah, I have played well around here, and I've had some good scores.  It doesn't really mean that much this week.  I don't think anybody is that bothered that's playing, but yeah I've played well, and it's always nice coming back to somewhere where you have got fond memories, really.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT