BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 25, 2015
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   5‑under par, sum it up for us if you would.   
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   I got out of jail a lot really.   I played poor for a lot of it.   I think once I hit the tee shot on 3, I was in the jungle, it wasn't really looking like a 5‑under par round.   So we have done amazing really to get out with 5‑under.   
I finished strong.   Hit some decent shots coming in but it was a struggle all day.   I think rounds like that are great when you get the most out of it.  
   
 Q.   A good U.S. Open last week.   Tell us the difference to come from the U.S. Open at torture Chambers Bay, to come here.   
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Well, I'm not sleeping for starters.   But it's a lot different actually.   I think the one thing that stands out is the greens here are very quick.   But putting on the fast greens last week when they are burnt and so bad, it makes them feel a bit slower than what they are.   So you feel a bit more comfortable on it.   
But yeah, it's completely different conditions.   It's a lot softer.   This is fly the‑ball‑to‑the‑hole‑and‑get‑it‑to‑stop, and last week wasn't like that at all.   It's just different golf.   But this is a lot more easy to adapt to than going the other way.  
   
 Q.   How much easier is it for you?   U.S. Open last week, you must have been like, whoa, what's going to happen out there today and here is like throwing darts.   Is that how it feels to you?   
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   I'd like to be playing better really so I could throw better darts.   But if you're swinging it well around here, you're going to give yourself so many chances, that's the thing.   Last week you could get the odd bounce that wasn't kind, if you like, and it was a different game of golf.   
But having played the U.S. Open, it's my first one and it's that different type of golf and it was‑‑ I really enjoyed playing it and learning about it.   With it being your first one, everything was great for me, so I loved it.  
   
 Q.   How are you boys going to go in the cricket against the greatest team in the world The Ashes?   
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   It's a no‑brainer, isn't it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT