THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2020
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just talk about finding out last night and everything that's kind of gone on.
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, it's just -- it's a bit bizarre. I was speaking to my coach this morning, who's 71 or 72. I said, Have you ever seen anything like this? And he said he's never had anything like it in his life really. Basically it's like a global pandemic at the moment, and we're all just a small part of it.
I guess the last few days, I think just how quickly things have happened. I know it's been around for a little while now, the coronavirus, but I think just in the space of, say, a day or two, and then especially yesterday when we were sitting having lunch and Jay made the announcement that there will be no fans today. But I think from teeing off to coming in, the amount of things around America and the world that are just completely getting canceled, which is absolutely the right thing to do. I think it's just happening very quick.
Q. Is it kind of surreal with everything that's happening, all the sports halting and everything else that's going on in the world right now?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, it is a bit. I think, yeah, everybody is trying to wrap their head around it. And yeah, we've -- it's not up to us to deal with it, but I think nobody has experienced anything like it, and I think just that unknown part of it and everybody is dealing with the situation as it happens, I think it's very, very difficult. And I think, yeah, it's probably best for everybody that we're taking the measures that we are doing.
Q. How the information came about over the last couple days, do you feel like it came out in the right ways in general?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, like I say, it's difficult. I think the guys have obviously left it as late as they possibly could. And it was always tricky -- for international players, I think, on our sort of selfish personal level, just trying to make arrangements and trying to have an understanding of what we're going to do and whether we're going to go home or stay out, what's the best idea to do, I think it's definitely -- I was trying to keep in touch with the guys and kind of trying to get a heads up on anything that was happening or trying to stay in the loop, just for sure making arrangements and trying to do things as quickly as possible.
Yeah, I think whatever the situation was or however people did things, there's always going to be a right and a wrong, but I think Jay and everybody has handled it really, really well.
Q. Is your family over here?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: No, they're home, so I'm going to fly home today now and then see what the future holds.
Q. Do you worry about that if the Masters does happen you might not be able to make it back with the travel ban?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: That is what it is, isn't it? It would be a shame. I would much rather be with them, and we'll see. We'll see what happens. I think -- with the state of how quickly things are going, it's hard to tell what's going to happen in three, four weeks at the moment. It just looks like it would be odd that the Masters would be on, but at the same time, I think with everything that we're doing, maybe it's going to occur now. We'll see.
Yeah, it will be -- you don't want to miss the Masters. But if that is the case, then there's nothing you can do about it. Sometimes that is just the way it is.
Q. Does it feel weird not knowing when you're going to play next?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: It does, a little bit. From a golf perspective I'm playing pretty bad, so it's nice to have that -- just feels like I can go home and reset and practice a little bit. And yeah, it's weird. It really is. Like, everybody sets out the schedule, if people want to take time off, they take time off. I think having that taken out of your hands is a strange thing, but life goes on. This is golf. There's a lot more things going on and bigger things than the golf TOUR. Like I say, we're all just part of what -- everybody is in the same boat, no matter what their profession is, and I think we just have to take it step by step, day by day. If you look at the last two, three days, how quickly things have changed, I think there's no point looking into the future. I think just keep taking it as it is now and hopefully everybody is safe really. I think that's the most important thing, and I know everybody is going to say it, but I think when something affects the whole of a nation and the world, I think everybody kind of comes together with the same thoughts and you just hope everyone is all right.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT