WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 6, 2014
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   It wasn't an easy day at all, and you knew that when you were kind of starting with the wind up.   Particularly the first six holes were mostly into the wind, apart from the second, they were all tough holes and I got through those okay and then just a bit scrappy at times but I putted really well. 
Didn't give any shots away, which was very pleasing after last week, when you give so much away.   It was a really good first day.

Q.   How did the last putt not drop? 
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Wasn't hard enough.   Yeah, it was a good putt.   I hit a lot of good putts and I holed plenty, so you're not going to hole them all.

Q.   No doubt you've been working hard but what's changed from this week to last, if last week was somewhat disappointing? 
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Well, to be honest I just had a nightmare first round last week, and I was 9‑under for the rest of the week, which was I think as good as a lot of the leaders in the end.     It was just one horrific day that happens maybe once or twice a year and it just happened on the Thursday last week. 
A lot of people struggled on the greens last week and it's easy to sort of get down on yourself, and I've put a lot of work in on the putting green this week.   There's always another week, isn't there.   There's always another day, another week and just keep positive and get days like today.

Q.   Presumably all the better being in Shanghai for the second week, on the time zone and all that?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Yeah, you've had a week here already.   To be honest this is just a great tournament, the world's best players and for me it's a very motivational week and I enjoy playing in it.

Q.   Have you done anything in China?   It's all work, isn't it‑‑ I know you have to do the business, but have you looked around and stuff?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   It is all work.   We got to Shanghai on the Sunday night of the BMW, which was nice, but as you say, it's all work.   This week we are obviously on site, which is nice in a lot of ways.   Just a shame we don't get a chance to do a bit more. 
Shanghai, we get one night there a week, it's a great city, but we've got to work, haven't we.

Q.   Do you enjoy the setup, the tournament, the way it all works and the way the public have grown to know and love their golf?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   They do a great job of running the event, and like you say, China, they are very enthusiastic about their golf and it's a nice play to play, so very enjoyable. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT