ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 4, 2014
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A round 62, your lowest ever on The European Tour?  
    TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Yeah, beautiful way to spend a Saturday, isn't it, that one.   You didn't see any scores like that when we were waiting in the clubhouse to get out there when it was just so cold and damp and windy.   Just got an rye really good spell in the middle of the round and I kept it going.   My putting was just on fire really and 10‑under par.  
   
 Q.   Weather conditions helped?   
    TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Yeah, I think the first few holes just played so long, and then once we got through them and the rain stopped, it was okay.   And then for the last, you know, three or four holes it got quite benign and we were very lucky to come in like that.   
    Then we had shadows on the last tee.   It was really nice but yeah, once we got through‑‑ I got through the first few holes playing really well and then‑‑ I didn't do anything special to be honest with you.   I just holed a lot of putts.   That's the thing, when you hole as many putts as that, that's when you shoot your low rounds and that was it.   
   
 Q.   Dare I ask if you were thinking of 59?   
    TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Well, I was‑‑ I made a really good par putt on 11, but I may be thought of it once, but I always had too much to do really.   I think if you're going to shoot 59, you need to be a few under through the first five and I wasn't.   I was always just that little too far back for it to come into my mind, so I'll settle for a 62 today, that's fine.   
   
 Q.   You've played well at this event in the past, on the back of Wales, you must be excited about the whole week?  
    TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Yeah, it's just a tournament that everybody loves.   They are courses that I love, and I always like coming to Scotland.   I'm always going to look forward to this event.   It's never a guarantee that you're going to play well.   It just so happens that I've had two good years in the last three and I was nowhere near until today, so it's nice to putt another good round in and be competing again on a Sunday here, especially around the Old Course.   It's just brilliant.  
   
 Q.   Nice to have a good partner, as well?   
    TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Yeah, he's been fantastic.   It's really good.   I always love playing with different sportsmen.   You can learn so much off them, because there's so many similarities in every sport but there's differences, as well.   He's been great to talk to and he's been great to get on with.   Yeah, I've loved playing with Tim and I think hopefully we've made the cut, as well.   It's the first time he's ever made the cut which is really good.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT