ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
September 21, 2014
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Level par for 12 holes, but you double the 13th.   Talk me through your self‑talk and what you're saying to yourself.   
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   I can't tell you on TV, sorry.   No, it was just a terrible shot off the tee and then the odd double, which it turned out to be, and you've got to get on with it, haven't you.   Definitely wasn't thinking about getting to 13‑under.   Just try your best on the last few and see what you can get.   
I wanted to get back to level par or under par for the day.   I knew I had been finishing strong anyway, so that was it.   I wanted to get back to nine or ten.   I thought that would have been a good effort.  
   
 Q.   You're on the last green with an eagle putt.   Were you aware the eagle gets you to 14‑under?   
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Yeah, it was just quite a fast‑looking putt really, and when you're nervous, they are not that easy.   Unfortunately hit it a bit soft and a bit pushy.   But I'm not going to complain about whatever happened on the last five holes.   I hit two great shots in there and the putt was a bit weak.   That's it, 13 was beyond my thinking when I was down the stretch.   Just see what happens now.  
   
 Q.   Are you getting used to competing and contending and being at the right end of the leaderboard?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   I love it.   After a poor summer, it was important I wanted to finish the season well.   I've been playing well recently and the more you get up there, the better.   This is how you learn.   You can't practice this on the range when you're coming down the stretch in the top five and just the more you do it, the better it is.   That's where everybody wants to be and that's the way you want to play.   We don't really want to be out at seven o'clock on a Sunday.   We want to be out at one o'clock and playing to win.   I enjoy it and hopefully I'll do it again.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT