WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 31, 2013
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   First of all, for the way I played, struggled a bit but got the most out of it.   But secondly, these weeks are a bit of a step up into another level for me so it's nice to being getting used to come out and nice to be getting used to it, nice to be around all the best players and to putt in a good performance is always nice.  
   
 Q.   How much different does it feel playing‑‑ I presume your first WGC.   
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Yeah, it's brilliant.   This is where you want to be.   This is what you practice for and what you play for; so the more of these tournaments I can get in, the better.   
But it's felt really good this week.   It's felt really enjoyable this week being with all the top players and this is where you learn, this is the best education you're ever going to get as a young golfer, so it's been great.  
   
 Q.   I'm sure you've met most of them in your time at various other tournaments but I guess it's looking down that range and seeing name after name.   
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Yeah, it's brilliant.   This is what it's all about.   You know, get out there and play your best and try and get up there with them.  
   
 Q.   Does that mean you steel yourself and try even harder somehow?   
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   No, I mean, one of the main things is you can't beat anybody else.   You have to concentrate on what you're doing and get the best out of everything you can.   
So it's really focusing on my game.   Obviously you can watch them and learn off them but you just have to get on with it and get the best score you can every day and see where you end up.  
   
 Q.   This particular round, was it something that clicked on the back nine and that's where the scores come?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   No, I didn't even have a chance on the front nine for a birdie, I don't think.   Front nine, it was the absolute best I could have got was level par.   Back nine, absolute best I could have got was 4‑under.   I got an unbelievable piece of luck on the par5, 14th.   I've gone for the green and carved it right, club is in the bank.   It's water all day.   I get to drop it, place it and then chip‑in, so it's gone from a six or a seven to a three.   
But you need bits like that and that's what you need in life, I guess.   I'm definitely not going to complain about it but obviously that's gone for me back to level to 3‑under and then you're moving forward.   It was just one of them rounds that I got absolutely the most out of it.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT