ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 27, 2013
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What happened on the front nine?   You just went mad, five in a row.   
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Five in a row.   I holed putts on three of them.   And the other two, I hit the green in two on the par5 and I hit it stone dead on the fifth.   But it did seem like nothing was going to miss, ever.   
Then I came back down‑to‑earth on ten, but just nice to get off the golf course‑‑ you come here and you don't know‑‑ we had perfect conditions, so it is scorable.  
But it's the hardest one of the three, so it's like, just try and get off‑‑ anything under par you would be happy with.   But 5‑under through eight, you're thinking a bit better than that.   
   
 Q.   It's quite nice to get it out of the way and be in the position you're in.   
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Yeah, exactly.   Being in the lead after two rounds, or I'll be close, I don't know what everybody else is going to do, but when you've got Carnoustie out of the way, it's always a bit of a bonus, isn't it.   You don't know what the weather is going to be like for the next two days, but Kingsbarns and St. Andrews left, I like both courses.  
   
 Q.   Was it two years ago you did something there?     
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   9‑under on Kingsbarns.   I shot level last year, so I kind of evened it out.   We'll see how it goes.   
I think the scoring has been quite low around there.   It is a scorable course if you play well, but you've still got to hole the putts.   You never know how you're going to wake up in the morning.   But it's obviously nice to have Carnoustie out of the way than still have it to come.  
   
 Q.   Have things been going well since the win at Gleneagles?   
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Yeah, I've been playing well for a while really.   I do seem to like Scotland for whatever reason it might be.   So my game has been improving a lot, so it's just nice to get yourself up there all the time really and keep putting yourself in these positions.   Only good things can happen for me if you keep doing it.   Yeah, it's all good.   
   
 Q.   And what about your playing partner, did he get on all right today?   
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Amateur, he fared better than yesterday.   I think he came in on three or four holes yesterday; only came in on one yesterday.   
   
 Q.   Are you enjoying the format?   
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Yeah, he's a great guy.   You always seem to get good partners.   There's no nasty people that are playing, but especially the last two days, really nice partners, really nice guys to play with, and it makes it easier really.   They just help you laugh a little bit.   He's a funny guy, so he just helps me smile whenever anything is going wrong.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT