BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 26, 2013
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Very enjoyable?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Yeah, it wasn't a very long sleep.   It was good.   Hit it really well.   I actually hit it well last week, and just didn't really score.   And then just carried that on really. 
I woke up yesterday and I had a good day on the range, and then took it out on to the course.   And obviously birdied the first and just had a stretch of pars where I was hitting it really good.   I was hitting it everywhere where I wanted to and that was always kind of 15 foot away from the hole.   That's where you always same. 
You know, some of the days you're pushing it or pulling it towards the pin and I just wasn't.   Couldn't get a putt to drop. 
Then turn on the back nine and once the wind got kind of got up, I started scoring well.   I made a really good birdie on 13 and a birdie on 14 and 16.   16 was one of them where you pushed it by the pin.   But I just played really well.   It was a shame that I had to stop last night, because I felt, obviously I had a lot of momentum going in with just one hole to go.   It was really nice. 

Q.   Are the greens as tricky as they look?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Well, as long as you get them on right level, they are fine.   You get them on the right level, and they have tiny, subtle breaks.   But that's the main part of the battle.   Obviously if you're leaving yourself up all kind of slopes, it's going to get tough. 
But if you're hitting it well enough, you can get it on the right level, you're always within 20 feet anyway and then you've always got a good chance.

Q.   A continuation of your decent form.   What's changed from last year, because you were struggling a little bit?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   I played really well the last, from August on last year, and I've really carried on.   I mean, I feel like I should have probably done better this year for the way I played for two or three rounds, and then I've just never quite finished a tournament off the way I should have done. 
Maybe I've had a couple high finishes, but apart from that it's really good.   I keep putting myself up there and that's what you've got to do.   Obviously I have not been up there for a long time really until this year, and it's all about learning and getting ways to deal with it again.   I'm getting there really, so if my game can just stay good, then keep doing the same things, I'm sure it will happen sooner or later. 

Q.   Alarm call this morning, what time was it?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   It went off at 4.30, which was a little bit late actually.

Q.   Did you snooze? 
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   I snoozed and then I thought I can't snooze.   It was horrid really, but one of the things you've got to deal with this week.   It's fine, you get to sleep on the bus and that's it really. 
But it was a long day yesterday.   At least I only had one hole to play where the other guys have got nine or ten holes to play, so I can't complain too much about it.

Q.   Is this your first time here?   
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   It's my first time.   I missed this last year.   I've really liked it so far.   Obviously, you know, there is a long bus journey but apart from that it's really good.

Q.   And the course itself? 
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   It's great.   It is really good.   A lot of good views off tees really.   You're looking down at fairways a lot and it's a tough walk for the caddies I'll say.   It's a really good course. 

Q.   So what's the plan now, get a bit of rest, a bit of breakfast?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   A bit of breakfast.   I had about four waffles at breakfast this morning, so I might go for a bit more.   But yeah, just a bit of breakfast and then I'll go warm up again.   I think I'll be out again at nine, so I won't have that much time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT