JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 23, 2013
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Can't be much better, really.   I played well.   After sort of the 7th, I putted very well, and you know, apart from leading, it's about as good as it could be, so I'm chuffed, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Looks like chance after chance, and a lovely finish?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Yeah, I was playing well early on, hitting it really well.   Hitting it really well yesterday and sort of carried that into today.   I didn't putt badly.   Hit a couple of bad putts, but once my putter sort of caught fire a little bit on 9, I holed a long one on 9 for eagle today, and good one on 10.   
And still missed a couple, but that's golf, you're not going to hole everything.   When you do, I think when you shoot 60 or 61, it will be fun.   
My whole game feels in very good shape and hopefully I can keep it up.  
   
 Q.   Presumably that one putt is the kind of thing that tells that you this could be a very good day.   
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   I was only 1‑under at that point and felt like it should have been better.   Brooks was firing everything in and he was playing good.   You've got to try to concentrate on your own game, and sort of, you just want something to happen.   
I hit two great shots in, and the wind had actually just switched on the tee otherwise it would never have got up.   Once the wind switched, it turned and you could reach it and all of a sudden you're 3‑under for the round from nowhere.  
   
 Q.   You say you have to concentrate on your own game, but does it help when a playing partner is doing well and you can feed off each other?   
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   It's great.   We were both playing very good.   It got a bit scrappy on the back nine but when two of you are going strong, it makes it really good, you kind of carry each other on, and Brooks is a great player.   He was really fun to play with.   It's the first time I've met him, so it's good.   
   
 Q.   Wiesberger reckons 22‑under at least, if the weather stays like this; you're thoughts?   
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   No idea.   Hopefully it's whatever I'm on at the end of the week.   We don't know what the weather is going to do, and you don't know what everyone else is going to do. When I teed off, the leader was 14‑under and I was ten behind him, and I'm now three behind him.   You don't know what's going to happen.   All I can do is play my own game and see what I can get.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT