OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 31, 2013
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A terrific opening round, 7‑under par, any particular aspect of your game key to that today? 
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Yeah, I putted well.   There was no mistakes in there, which is something that is new to me‑‑ that was nice, I played better in the last couple of weeks, I would say, and just not scored at all so it was nice to get it going.

Q.   The last event of last season you needed a big performance to come up with your card, right on the line and you finished sixth in South Africa.   What did it do for you as a player to come up with a big performance like that?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Well, I wouldn't recommend going through it.   It was great, knowing what you need to do going out there and performing is a big boost, really.   I know I left it a bit late but it was nice to play some good golf when it was right under the crunch. 

Q.   Last year was your rookie season; do you feel differently   coming into this year, knowing the courses and the drill on Tour? 
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   It's nice, I know most guys now.   I would say I feel a lot different from gaining my card to retaining my card.   I just feel more comfortable, as the year progressed last year, I began to feel more comfortable and it's just the same now. 
It was nice today.   I started off really well.   Like I say, I didn't really make any mistakes and it was just always good.   I was going forward all the way around, and the back nine, I boosted my good round to a great one and it was just nice to finish it up.

Q.   Sounds like a change of attitude as well as just a bit of luck out there. 
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   I feel better, yeah.   I am much more happy with my round today than previous ones. 
I felt confident when I woke up this morning.   For some reason, you just get days like this, you hit it nice on the range which was nice and hit a good tee shot on 1, and everything seems to run smoothly.   There's obviously a couple of dodgy shots in there, but overall the day seems very easy. 

Q.   Put this into context, because we've seen you out and about over the last few weeks, as well. 
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Yeah, I know, like I say, I struggled last year which was a bit unexpected really after the year before, but it's always nice to struggle and make it hard for yourself; it shows you what you need to do to get to the top and it makes you appreciate your golf even more. 
So I'm happy with my game and hopefully I can just keep working hard and keep improving. 

Q.   Happy to be playing here, because the Dubai Desert Classic is one of the events you grew up with?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Yeah, exactly, the Dubai one is one you always wanted to come to‑‑ so it's great to be here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT