ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 2, 2011
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Fell a bit short, but would you have taken that at the start of the week? 
 TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, it was just a great week. The invite was obviously something that's great, and then I've just learned so much. Getting drawn with Pádraig Harrington today, and I asked him a couple of questions on the way around and just watched. It was just amazing. 

 Q. Was what was he saying to you out there?
 TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I don't want to say -- no, I'm only joking. I just asked him what was the best bit of advice he could give me was. He gave me a great bit of advice. He said, "Just do your own thing." Basically that's what he was trying to get at. Definitely going to listen to him. It was just great and watching him play. I had a little Pádraig Harrington-esque up-and-down on 17. It was great.

 Q. How much confidence can you take from this week knowing you can hold your own against some of the best players in the world? 
 TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, got to look forward to next year now, playing on Tour. My game has been got last few weeks now and hopefully I can just kick on from there. I have a few more good performances. But obviously this is one of the best fields you're going to get and I've managed to put in a Top-5 finish I think. Obviously chuffed to bits. 

 Q. Winning Kazakhstan, that's where all of the confidence came from?
 TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Getting the win there was massive for me. I said it the other day: There was a time I was beginning to think, can I get over the line, the amount of times that I was up there. That was big. I know I can win now. Just one more level to win, a couple of levels even, and yeah, just my golf's been good since then. 
 My putting has been the main thing that's changed, and just happy, just enjoying golf at the moment and I enjoyed this week. Doesn't matter what I do; obviously I've got my card for next year hopefully. Just playing and enjoying it, and obviously you get good results from it. 

 Q. What's your plan now, back on The Challenge Tour?
 TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, a week off next week. And then Rome and Grand Final. That's what I'm going to play. Looking forward to those events, finishing on The Challenge Tour and hopefully I can secure that No. 1 spot, if I can, obviously there's a lot of guys that are playing well that can overtake me. Just keep taking it one step at a time and keep working hard and hopefully I'll be on the last green here one day -- in The Open, yeah. 
 I still have a big job left on The Challenge Tour trying to get a No. 1 and No. 2 spot, just try to keep improving. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT