OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 1, 2013
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Another excellent round of golf, no bogeys again today, what's pleased you most about your play today?   
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   No bogeys, I'd say I drove it really well today.   I hardly ever put myself in a position where I was going to struggle from really the fairways and that's where you're going to have to score and that's kind of what I've done for two days now and again like I say, no mistakes and that makes scoring that much easier.  
   
 Q.   You started at 10, go out in 2‑under, birdied 3 and 4 to get into a tie for the lead; do you know and how did you feel about that?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Yeah, there's leaderboards out there.   I felt fine.   I was playing good.   I would rather be there than anywhere else.   It's nice to be up there when nothing has happened of recent, and I felt comfortable and as long as I'm playing well and putting well, I feel fine.  
   
 Q.   You spoke yesterday about your rookie season last year, what is the most important thing you learnt?   
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   I learnt how to struggle, I'd say.   I never‑‑ I had not really lost form properly in my whole life, and then you have a few months and you can't break par no matter what you seem to do.   I would say, just knowing how hard you have to work and you appreciate good play all that much more.   It opened my eyes a little bit.  
   
 Q.   You watched this growing up; how exciting to be in this position going into the weekend?   
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   It's great.   It's always been one of the stand out events and there's always so many shots on the last hole on the last day and it's great to be up there with all these great players.  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts, bogey‑free for two days?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   I'm happy.   I've played really good.   Like I say, mistakes is one of the things I've been bad at doing recently but so far this week I've just been hitting it really well, so feeling really good.  
   
 Q.   How does it compare to your best tournaments on Tour?   
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Well, it's the best at the moment.   It's just been really good.   I felt comfortable all week so far and it's just, like I say, it's just really nice to play well and put yourself in those positions; it's a good leaderboard up there and hopefully I can just continue into the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Has it taken time to learn to feel comfortable out on the course?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   Definitely.   On The Challenge Tour I felt fine and I knew a lot of guys from the Amateur days and all of that and you come out on Tour and all of the guys you've been watching on TV for years on end, and it does take a bit of getting used to.   But they are all nice guys, so there's nothing to be scared of.   Just takes a bit of getting used to, and now I'm getting there.   
   
 Q.   And the struggle has helped to the experience?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD:   That's when you learn.   If it's all going hunky‑dory, then you don't learn that much from it.   So I've gained a lot in the last year I would say, and hopefully I can bring that out this weekend and use my experience to my advantage.   
It was tough today.   Yesterday it was a lot easier.   There was no wind and you could just fire at pins.   Today, just you noticed the difference as soon as you go out.   It was tough on 10.   The greens were tougher, you get downgrain, downhill, downwind, it all becomes a bit like glass.  
It was tough, and you've just got to deal with it.   As long as you hit good shots and commit to whatever you're doing, it's always all right.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT