THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 27, 2020
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tommy, it was tough out there today, wasn't it? Even par is a pretty good round.  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, even par is fine. 2-under with three to play, it's always going to be a little bit disappointing when you let a couple of shots go, but it's so easy to do out here. Level par starting off the day, knowing I can go work on a few things, have a nice bit of lunch and watch everybody else struggle is nice. It's not too bad.   
 Q.  It looked like a lot of players were really struggling on the greens today. Is there anything that may have caused that?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: You know, I felt like I hit a lot of good putts, holed a couple of mid-range putts. There was still a couple that could have gone in. The wind is a massive factor all the way around the golf course. I feel like there's so many cross-winds which bring misses off the tee, into the greens, cross-winds affect the putts, and it's just an all-around very, very difficult test, and it tests everyone. It tests every part of your game. It's interesting to hear that not a lot of putts are dropping. The greens are pure, so it's got nothing to do with that, it's just the wind makes it a little bit more difficult to read maybe.   
 Q.  It started off this morning windy and cloudy and then the clouds went away. Did anything else change for you out there today?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: It got hotter. I got a little bit hot in this underlayer there towards the end. I don't know, I think when the temperature picks up, it helps the ball just travel through the wind a little bit more, but the wind is so strong, it's difficult to -- especially after last week, we played at such a high altitude last week, and all of a sudden you're hitting a chippy 6-iron from like 170 at times. It's such a difference from last week.   
I think not much changed in the conditions. I just think there's not a lot about that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT