OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 24, 2020
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  75 yesterday, 65 today. Just tell us about that from your point of view. 10 shots in one day.  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, it's a good change. Yesterday was disappointing, I actually felt like I played okay, I had a real shocker on the greens. At the end of the day those bad days have to get better. But the positive is we practiced for a bit yesterday, I came out this morning, practiced my putting again, felt like I had a better idea of what I was doing. And that just -- it doesn't always work out like that, but just lucky that the bit of work that I did put in paid off today. Really felt like I, at times, I didn't need hit it that great, but at times I did hit it really well today, and I just made putts, made up-and-downs and that makes a big big difference when you're playing golf.   
 Q.  Putting itself obviously improved significantly. Once you were out there and you sort of got your self through the cut line in terms of, I'm probably safe now, is it then about narrowing the gap to the top and does that change your mindset?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I think you never really want to think about the cut, but obviously when you start off at 3-over the first priority is to make sure that you made the cut and play for the weekend. I think that's, I mean that is the first priority every time you peg it up week-to-week as professional golfers is to make cuts and make money. So, yeah, like that, first and foremost is try and get your self in the cut line. I feel like I navigated the front nine really well and the course has played so much harder this so you can't take anything for granted, but I felt like once I got through the front nine, the back nine with three par-5s, feels like there was more chances on the back nine. So I felt very comfortable walking to the 10th tee. And just -- but at no point was it trying get your self up the leaderboard, try and make the cut, it was just about doing my best, really. I'm not going to go through all the process stuff, but it was all that and at the end of the day it was a very, very good day and I was just happy that I got some momentum building. And like you say, not out of it yet.   
 Q.  There was some attention obviously because you've got this record cut run going, people are discussing it saying 2018 43 tournaments, now makes 44. Even you must be impressed with that, it's pretty darn good stuff.  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, it's something that I'm very proud of. I think that -- I said before, I would like some more wins possibly as well, but to play week-in week-out and there's always, it's so easy to I think make excuses that, I wasn't putting well this week or, like yesterday, I could have easily said, I'm putting terrible this week, just put it down to that and let's get on with next week. And yeah, to have played that consistently over that course of time is something that I'm proud of and I think it shows a lot about how I go about things, about the people that I work with and the preparation that we put in, because I'm not going to have played well all those weeks and the standard of golf's getting higher and higher, so something I'm very proud of, I'm sure it's going to come to an end at some point, but for now just happy that I'm still here for the weekend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT