DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 23, 2019
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 70. How do you sort of reflect on that 18 holes as a whole?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: It was all right. It's not easy. I felt like I hit a lot of good shots. Didn't putt like I wanted. Didn't have very good pace and there's only really a couple of shots out there: 7 was a bit of a frustrating one, in between shots to get up-and-down for a birdie on a par 5; and 11, knocked that one in to try to get some momentum.
Apart from that, it's not that easy. Just the guys that are up front played great today and shot really good scores. But you know, overall, still in it, which is all you can ask for.
Q. Still in it. You've had a couple of great rounds building up for today, as well and you know just from last week that you can come from a few shots behind very fresh in the memory going into tomorrow?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, well, anything can happen. I think, yeah, one thing that I probably haven't done great in the past is sort of, you just misjudge what you think a winning score might be or you think guys are going to keep going at it, and you never know what's going to happen on a Sunday. All you can do is play your golf and hit your shots, and then get the best score you can and see if that's good enough.
Tomorrow it will just be, you know, go out there, try my best. If it's anywhere near good enough -- if it's not, so be it, just try my hardest.
Q. You're in contention for both Race to Dubai and the tournament; does that change things?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I think it just makes things a little bit more difficult. There's a couple more scenarios. There's one tournament going on and then there's The Race to Dubai going on. I think it's just an extra challenge, that's all.
But so far, I feel like I've done a great job of it. I've been lucky enough that I've been doing this for three years in a row now coming to this event, so I'd like to keep that track record going and tick a few off.
There's 18 holes of golf to be played yet, which feels like a short period if you think about how long the year's been, but it's quite a long period just going by the date. See what happens and take it step by at the point.
Q. Round of 70, give us your reflections.
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: It was pretty good. There's a couple of shots I'd like to take back. I think I hit enough good golf shots, it wasn't great or flawless by any means, but I think I did a lot of good stuff.
7 was a bit of a frustrating one, two really good shots, in between shots around the green. You feel like when you mess up, you should have chipped it. 11, knocked that one in and tried to build some momentum. Apart from that, it wasn't an easy day. It's just that the leaders that are up there shot good scores and ran away with it. Overall I'm happy with the way I played and finished on the back nine. I'm not out of it, so that's the main thing.
Q. Some ground to make up on the leaders tomorrow. You came from six behind at the weekend. How much can you draw from that experience, shooting that wonderful 65 and do something similar tomorrow?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Absolutely, I think there's no better example than last week. The course, you know, you can score on this golf course, and I think one thing that I'm beginning to learn that I probably messed up with in the past is you never know what's going to happen and it's easy to think that players, they might do, Jon or Mike or Rory might go out and shoot 6-, 7-under tomorrow and there's literally nothing I can do about it and then they might not.
The last thing you want is to think too much about that and not concentrate on your own game and think that you could have done things better. Tomorrow it will be shot by shot, step by step, and see what we can do.
I think if anything, nice turning point, standing on that last tee, a two-shot swing is helpful. I might think about what other people are doing but the challenge is really focusing on what you're doing.
Q. For the third year in a row, you go into the final day with a dual agenda. What will you learnt from the previous two experiences that you can use tomorrow?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I think year one just showed that anything can happen. That was a great example, I was in with a great chance and struggled. Justin was playing unbelievable. Just faltered a little bit at the last stage and all of a sudden after leading it for so long, felt like I stole it a little bit. That just kind of showed what can happen coming down the back nine when there's a lot on the line.
I'm obviously used to the situation, and I think I can sort of look at that as a positive. At the end of the day, I've just got to hit golf shots. Got all the experience, so got to hit golf shots now. That's what I'm trying to do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT