DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 24, 2019
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Fantastic performance, 65. You came up one shy. Give us an idea of how you're feeling just now? At one stage you were eight shots behind after seven holes. How do you feel?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, I feel fine. Couldn't have done much more, really. You know, some of the putts they hit, some of the shots they hit coming down the stretch, it started looking like I could get back in it or might have a chance.   
Proud, really, of the way I played the last few holes. Proud of the end of the season, and these two weeks make the season just seem in a different light than it did would weeks before we started.   
Fair play to Jon. That's a cracking birdie down the last when you have to make it. I'm absolutely fine.   
 Q.  Nearly a repeat of last week. You must be very happy with your day's work?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, of course. You know, there's always going to be a little bit of disappointment there, but for the most part, I got myself back in it, and I am very proud of the way I played on that back nine.   
You know, Jon's time, Jon's moment, he's played unbelievable this year, and you know, fair play. Great birdie down the last and yeah, just happy with my week.   
 Q.  What was the difference?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Not a lot, really. I had a couple of long putts. Front nine, should I have got up-and-down on 7, really, and 3 I hit a bad iron shot. Not a lot. I felt like I was playing well. Felt like I was hitting plenty of good golf shots, and then just 12, 15, 17, holed some long putts and made an unbelievable up-and-down on 18, really. That third shot there is definitely the shot of the week for me. Managed to get it going a little bit and I was very close.   
 Q.  Two strong finishes, two strong weeks. Great to end the season on a high. How much are you looking forward to next season?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I'm looking forward to a break first. I'm looking forward to waking up tomorrow with nothing to do. Kids can go to school. Clare can do a bit of work. I can do nothing. That's going to be really nice. Then get back at it when we do get the clubs out again.   
But for now, really excited for a break. These last two weeks definitely paint the season in a brand new light. A lot more satisfaction than there was before them. Yeah, just have a break and then get ready to crack on next year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT