DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 22, 2019
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A round of 68 for. A total of 9-under. Just give us your thoughts on that one.  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Good day. Played really, really well. Stayed very patient. Felt like I did a really good job after the fourth of just playing really good, solid golf. It wasn't easy today. The wind really picked up.   
So yeah, it was a pretty tough day. I think anything under par would have been a really solid day, so 4-under, I'm happy with.   
 Q.  What was the biggest challenge playing in those gusty wind conditions?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I just think the greens are firming up a little bit. There was a couple of shortened tees like on par 5s, but some of the pins were tricky. It's not always that easy to get very close. So I know it's not that easy to score.   
Yeah, there's some long golf holes out there when you get to like, I think 12 and 13 are really tough and you have pretty slick greens, pretty big greens. But got to do what you've got to do and you just keep going.   
 Q.  You were very disappointed in your play at the HSBC and took a week off and came out and won last week and again going well this week. Does that show the value of having a coach, Alan Thompson, who understands your swing inside-out and can fix you quickly when you don't feel quite on it?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: A 100 per cent. Coaches are so important, it's very difficult to see what you're doing yourself. I think the first day we saw each other for a practice day after China, you wanted to go straight on the course. Knew exactly what he was looking for and he had seen on TV certain things that I was doing wrong. Just went out on the golf course before hitting balls on the range, saw what was going on. Back on the range, try and rectify it, spend a few days working on that.   
Yeah, I mean, Tomo, known me a very, very long time and never leads me astray. Nice to have him around.   
 Q.  Happy with 68?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, really good. Good, solid round of golf. Still a couple of mistakes in there but not many. Felt like I hit a lot of really good golf shots again. Hit tons of really good putts. Missed a couple but overall felt like I putted really well and did exactly what I needed to do to shoot a score.   
 Q.  You said a couple mistakes out there.  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, 3 and 4, three-putt on 3 and then 4,4 is a very, very difficult hole, and I had 5-foot for par. Just misread it.   
Then it really does help when you bounce straight back. I think today, birdieing the last, that obviously leaves the day with a lovely feel. But just have to keep going. I think I've done a very good job so far of just staying present and moving on to the next golf shot. You really don't know what's going to happen. There's plenty of birdies out there and plenty of bogeys as well, so you just have to take every shot as it comes and just do your best.   
 Q.  Tricky today on the back nine?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: It was. It really picked up -- it just started pumping really. Started really strong winds on a course, you make that turn, you have 12, 13, are two really long holes. 14 just with the pin position today was a very difficult hole. 15, tough pin position, and 16, 17, 18 to finish where anything can happen and you can hit great golf shots and you can get caught out. Just happy with the all-around day to be fair.   
 Q.  Game plan for the weekend, eyes on the prize for The Race to Dubai and the tournament?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, it's just a classic case, really, of trying to stay in the moment and each shot as it comes. There's a lot going on over the weekend. There's a lot of different scenarios and players in the mix.   
There's a lot of things going on around you, so the more internally focused you can be and the more you can just stay in your bubble, it will just be a great challenge going into the weekend trying to do that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT