DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 21, 2019
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  First person ever to eagle the first hole. Describe that from your point of view?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Very nice start. Hit a great drive and then I actually didn't expect the 9 to reach the pin. I knew it would be so close -- a good shot. Can't see it, so you just take people's reaction, but it was the perfect start.   
 Q.  On the putting green we saw you with your putting coach, Phil Kenyon. How did it feel?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Felt great. I was a little disappointed with a couple of weak ones towards the end but you can't be too picky. I hit so many good putts. Yesterday got caught short with how the weather was and this week comes around so quick, you travel on Monday, get in, have a bit of a rest, Tuesday is the Pro-Am and Wednesday was like our final prep day and you couldn't really get much done.   
I just wanted to really do a bit of putting. I had not putted much on the greens. Stroke felt really good. I just got on a really nice streak where I saw some mid ranges, and just a couple of weak ones towards the one is a just a bit of a niggle but part from that, couldn't ask for more.   
 Q.  18 off the rocks, back in the fairway, these things don't happen when you're playing poorly.  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Well, the rocks are around the green -- I played a couple of weeks ago and on the back nine, same thing. I'll try and avoid that. Just take it as it comes and luck was on my side for a little bit today and last week, so just ride it while it's there.   
 Q.  What a start.  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, it was a beauty. Just a perfect tee shot, perfect second shot really. Very, very happy to take people's reactions for it and feel it's gone in. I didn't feel too up or down. I was just happy with the execution of the golf shots. It's nice, last event of the year, only four days left, so make the most of a good start.   
 Q.  5-under all together. What was the rest of it like?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Solid. Felt like I hit a lot of very good golf shots. A couple of bogeys. Felt I could have chipped it a bit better at times, but you know, overall, felt like I did so many good things and at the end of the day, you look at it, the three people that shot a better score than me are the best players this year.   
 Q.  Happy going forward in great position?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, day one done, you can only put yourself out of it. I've put myself right in there and I'm very, very happy with that.   
 Q.  It's not always easy to sort of pick up off a great high in your very next tournament, but you managed to do that today, didn't you?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, the game felt really good. I actually didn't warm up that great. I had a couple of things to think about, which I think helps. Sort of be too easy, you want to think about it a little bit. Keeps your mind focused.   
Got off to the perfect start. Started eagle birdie and kept it going from there. Felt like I hit a lot of very good golf shots and I was rolling putts in, and can't complain at all.   
 Q.  I know it's a different game for you, but any amateurs, the thought of holing the second shot on a par 4 opening hole, obviously would have a massive impact. What kind free feeling has it given you?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Not too much to be honest. Didn't feel too high or low. I hit two great shots. I've got a bit of time now till my second tee shot so just move on from there. Honestly, I didn't feel anything, it's so early in the tournament; it's almost like perfect time for it to happen. You get off to a great start and you know you're going to carry on. You've got 71 more holes. I just got on with it and got on to the second hole.   
 Q.  In the wider context of hunting down Bernd Wiesberger, he saw how well you played today, but that's a good platform and that's what you've given yourself, isn't it?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, you can only put yourself out of it on day one. There's a lot more to do. There's 54 holes now. There are great players up there and all I can do is do my stuff. I've got three days of work left, really, until the end of the year. Just make the most of them. Stay very present. Keep doing my best on every golf shot and see how we can get on. I would love to be up there come Sunday but that's a very long way away. I've got a little bit of practice tonight, have dinner and on to tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT