NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 17, 2019
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How does it feel to be that can in the winner's circle?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Feels good. Emotional. It has been a long time coming, and I'm not one to complain, but I really did want to win something. You know, it's the best. Like winning is just such a good feeling. You know, everybody puts a lot of hard work in week-in, week-out and you wait for your time to come. Probably impatient most of the time. But I feel happy and lucky that it's been my time this week.   
 Q.  Six shots off the week coming in today, putting together a 7-under par score and get into a playoff to get this done, where does this round rank in your career?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, it was one of the best for sure. I would have liked to keep a couple bogeys off the card, but like the way I played, the way I hit it, felt like the way I putted, the way I handled myself emotionally, staying in the present.   
And then the playoff, bit of lucky off the tee shot, chip shot probably a bit lucky and holed the putt, but it all goes together with just such an amazing day.   
 Q.  Previous Race to Dubai winner and this puts you for second in the ranking going into the last event. What would it mean to win it for the second time?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: It would be beautiful, wouldn't it. It would be amazing. We'll see what I have to do next week. See where this has put me. I knew it would put me somewhere but that wasn't the main focus, really.   
Like I say it was getting the best out of today. Winning honestly wasn't on the agenda at the start of the day, probably not. It was just about putting a good round together and moving on to next week. But you know, I just want to enjoy this for now and looking to next week, I think I've got good experience. I obviously won it in 2017 and had a chance last year when Fran won it.   
It's such a great, great thing and a feeling to be playing with a chance to win The Race to Dubai in the last event. Everybody starts the Tour at the start of the season to get there, and be one of the guys that can actually finish at the top is very special.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT