NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 15, 2019
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Second round of 69. How did your play compare over the two days?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: It's been good. It's a tough golf course, and like you're always -- you're not that bad of a golf shot away from being stuck in trouble. You've just got to stay on it. I felt like I probably played better yesterday, like I hit sort of three drives sort of middle of the back nine yesterday. They weren't even that bad but I got in a bit of trouble for the most part, I was really, really good yesterday, and today, I saved -- I made a couple of really good par saves but overall played really good again.   
It is a very tough course to score around, so I'd have taken that easily.   
 Q.  It is a ball-striker's course and you are renowned as a ball-striker. Do you come here believing you can do well here?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, of course. Generally I feel like I can do well. I love this place. I love the week. I think it's got a great atmosphere to it. I was happy to add last week to practice after China, which was really disappointed. Felt like I played terrible and I was disappointed in myself. I felt like the week did me a lot of good, and I've come back swinging it much better. Halfway there, it's been good.   
I like teeing off on this golf course. I feel like there's a lot of holes where you have to just make sure you free yourself up. You can get so guardy around here and just see there's just a few shots where you know what's out there and it's just a case of trusting yourself and trying to put good swings on it. So far, so good.   
 Q.  10th currently in The Race to Dubai. Are you thinking with a good performance you can get back in position to challenge?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, of course, I think with the way it sets up now, these last few weeks are so big, anything can happen. I'm trying not to think about it too much. I think last year, the end of the year -- when I started out, I didn't really set out as a goal, though I had won it in 2017.   
Last year I didn't really set out with that in mind and when I got close I tried to force it at the end, trying to make sure that you're playing from those kind of experiences that you've had.   
I've got two weeks left of this year and that's it. I've got certain targets in mind to do it myself, nothing to do with results or anything. I think if I can do that, I'll sleep easy at night and we'll see if the results come.   
It would be great to play next week and get there with a chance. The last two years I've been lucky enough where I've teed it up on Thursday and been right in there all the way to the end and I just think it's such an amazing feeling and it's a privilege, really, to be playing that final event with a chance to do something special in your career.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT