ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 29, 2019
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  8-under, some shooting?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, managed to get it going eventually. I played all right today. I think putting was a massive difference. Yesterday I struggled and it was a bit of a flat day. For the most part today I was thinking about the team competition. I think it took my mind off everything else and just got on a really nice run. We teed off on the back nine today, so the front nine. Before you know, it 8-under.   
 Q.  You said you were disappointed with how things went yesterday. How do you get the mind-set right for the final fourth round?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Just come out and try and do the best you can. We were leading the team event, so that was literally my main priority to see if we could do well in that. So that really pumped me up before I come out more than anything. Then once you get a nice round going, it's just nice. You keep trying to roll with it and get going. At the end of the day, playing the Old Course on a Sunday morning, it's not going to get any better.   
 Q.  Were conditions quite tough?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, for sure. On that back nine with the wind sort of behind your back off the left, it's kind of tough. It actually sort of suits some holes but you don't want to let one leak. With crosswinds all day, you switch after nine and you have to completely reverse. You're out there, it's a completely different shot playing in each wind, so it just focuses the mind a bit more.   
 Q.  A round like today in the conditions, what does that do for the confidence for the events left in the calendar?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: It was a nice way to finish the week I think more than anything. And yeah, when you've had a couple of flat days and you leave the course yesterday feeling a little bit -- it's nice to shoot a good round. I've got a couple weeks at home, but it's nice to have a boost with a great round and show that it's still there.   
 Q.  I think Rory and his dad have just drawn level with you guys.  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I think it's best pro, isn't it. I think it's best pro over the week, so I've just nudged Rory luckily. So that one's all right. There's still a few to come in, so we'll see. Just, yeah, it's like winning a tournament, watching the Pro-Am scores coming. It was great. It was so much fun doing it together and getting up there.   
Thursday played great, Kingsbarns I was okay with and yesterday I walked off the course disappointed because I felt like I haven't played well or it was a bit flat. I'm just really happy to get that last final round and at the end of the day it's going to be a really good result by the looks of it. Got to be happy. I think it's nice to end the week on a really positive note moving forward when you have a couple weeks practice.   
 Q.  What was the difference?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Putting for sure. I hit it better today. I gave myself a lot more good looks, and I putted, you know, really started holing putts. We teed off on the back nine, so the front nine, just started holing putts on that nine and when you get a run going, especially on these greens when you're hitting the ball to the hole and it can wiggle either way, that's links golf. When you can get on a good roll of momentum, it makes a massive, massive difference. That was it, really. Once it got going, felt really good and the team score helped me, really, because it took my focus off what I was doing and I was really concentrating on the team and doing that, and I think it just helped me mentally.   
 Q.  Looks like you're likely to win the team competition, how much does that mean to you?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: It really does. We've played in it a lot and I know how much it means to those guys. Yeah, I was nervous. I said to Ogden, we had five holes left, and he said, "I'm going to need you on these last few." He was nervous coming down the stretch but we did great. To win it, it would be brilliant. It means a lot when it's not just yourself and it's a partnership.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT