ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 27, 2019
Tommy Fleetwood
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You guys have been on a Ryder Cup team before but have never been paired together.  What have you learned about each other and each other's playing styles this week that allowed you to be successful so far?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Sergio hits it better than I do.  I mean, we get on great, and I think the luxury of it for me, and hopefully for Sergio, is how comfortable you feel when you know somebody so well on the course.  So you know, you might not hit -- you're not always going to hit the shots you want to, but I think it's very important in a team format, you don't feel -- of course you feel bad, but you always feel together in it, and your partner makes you feel better.  I've enjoyed that part of this week, and Sergio did a good job today.  I was the steady guy at the back of the pack and Sergio made the birdies.   
 Q.  Well, tomorrow alternate shot obviously is going to be more challenging.  I think mentally it's probably more challenging than anything, so what's the difference in alternate shot when you are playing in a teammate compared to just stroke play when bad shots inevitably are going to happen?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, no, in foursomes obviously there's a little bit more pressure on both of us, but for example, this morning Tommy was unbelievable in foursomes, kept stiffing it over and over again, and I managed to make a couple of putts, and this afternoon I've played quite nicely, but the holes that I wasn't in it, he was right there.  That's the most important thing.  I think making sure that you gel nicely and you match up nicely on those holes, that if one of them doesn't do well the other one nice.   
 Q.  64 today; it seemed like just a plodding round of golf, just putting positive yardage on the ground and keeping up that leaderboard.  Did it feel that way to you?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, I think it was on the verge of getting a little bit frustrating.  We didn't birdie 2 or 7 and we were both playing really solid golf, and you just feel like you want some putts to drop.  So it was on the verge, and then Sergio put his foot down and started rolling some putts in and we just -- and we got some birdies going on the back nine.  And overall, like I say, it's easy to think, because you're going to look at scores on the leaderboard and people are going to go, love it, it's better ball.  But it's easy to think that you need to be making those birdies, and eventually they'll come, and we just kept patient and we kept going, kept playing really good golf, and 64 is a good day today.  It wasn't that easy.   
 Q.  Now, you were 68 in alternate shot the first time around, you're 65 in today's format, so you went one better.  If you go one better tomorrow, that's 67, that's got to be a pretty good number in your head, Sergio?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I think it would be a great number.  If somebody plays better obviously you just shake their hand and tell them congrats.  But yeah, the course is getting firmer.  It's not going to be easy, so if we can play kind of like we did this morning in foursomes, it's a tough format, so just got to, like Tommy said, just stay patient.  It's going to be tough for everyone, and even if something doesn't go right right away, just wait for it.  So I think we've been very good with that throughout the whole week.   
 Q.  I want to ask you about going into tomorrow.  Even though the scores aren't going to be as low but there's more fluctuation on the leaderboard because it is a tougher --  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Sure, because you can't get away with ropey shots like on four-ball, so definitely one guy can hit it in the trees, the other guy has his own ball and he can do his job.  It's very, very different, the rhythm is different.  So if you're not playing that great, it's tougher to get back into a rhythm.  It's not like you have more shots to do it.  And it just is.  It's a more difficult format, there's less leeway.  But I think that suits us.   
 Q.  Sergio, do you think people with experience at playing foursomes have an edge tomorrow?  
SERGIO GARCIA: I mean, maybe a little bit, but at the end of the day, it just comes down to playing.  If you play well, if you don't have experience, if you keep hitting good shots, it's going to work.  Maybe a little bit, but everyone is going to feel it.  We just got to go out there and -- I think Tommy was great today because even the front nine when we probably felt like we should have been 5- or 6-under and we were only 3, he kept saying, don't worry, it's not that easy, just don't feel like we're losing a lot of ground, and then we got going.  So it was important for me to not kind of freak out and it was nice to hear him kind of say those things and kind of keep me a little bit calm.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT