WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 27, 2019
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about the first round today.  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Just happy to get through it really.  The thing is when you play in this tournament, there is this no easy match at all.  There is no let-up throughout the week.   
But happy to have got the win.  I can go and do some practice a bit and be happy with today and move on.   
 Q.  It was a good run, 2 down through 7 and then you turned it on, you managed to get the advantage and finished it off on 16?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I was playing well on the front nine.  I had a couple of missed putts, one bad tee shot on 3, and 6 overdrew it.  So I was 2-down.  It's easy to get going the wrong way on this golf course.  Sometimes it feels really difficult.  The pins are bit funky.   
Once 6 finished, I had a good second putt on 7, and holed a really good par putt on 8, and then played really well the whole backside.  Made a few birdies.  That was the turning point, really.   
8 was a good turning point.  That had a lot of momentum.  It's really quick on the green.  He three-putted and I two-putted.  He missed a putt on 9 really.  I got away with one on 9 and it turned in my favor.   
 Q.  I saw your mom and dad walking on the back of nine and your dad said, "Yeah, he's doing okay, it will be fine."  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Mr. Positive, my dad, the ultimate optimist.  It's always good to have him around.   
 Q.  Some good stuff happened at 10, 11, 13 and you won 3-2.  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, I played pretty well today.  Started off okay hitting the ball well, but missed a couple of putts, which is going to happen throughout the course of the week.   
The course is tricky, and you never really know when you're going to get your turn of birdies or get your way of the match.  And yeah, that turnaround 8, once I got to 8, the match really swung.  And I holed a really good putts coming in.  So 15 and 16, they both can go either way, and it can be all square going out.  But it went my way, so happy.   
 Q.  The course conditions, how did it play today?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Fine, really.  The greens are firm but we were first out this morning, so they were a little bit more receptive.  But it's a tricky course and they can make the pin positions a bit funky, and there's just so many options whenever you're playing.   
But it's a tough challenge, really.  I'm getting used to it, hopefully.  I enjoyed it.  I think the course, we got three holes without wind and then it picked up a bit.  But the one good thing is that you only play one guy, so it's the same for both of you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT