ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 17, 2019
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Coming in here with a chance to win three in a row obviously was very important for you to be here at the weekend, you wouldn't have wanted this to end after two rounds.  How good did that putt feel at 18?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: It was nice to get one in.  My putting was pretty awful today.  I just struggled on the greens.  I hit it -- the things that I wanted to do better from yesterday, I did, but just a couple of short ones missed and then just holed nothing at any makeable range.  But you can never -- you can't stress enough the importance of just making cuts anyway in professional golf.  That's the game.  It doesn't matter what level you're at.  Making cuts is great, and I'm very happy that I've gotten another two days of golf.   
Honestly, I've not thought about defending it at all this week.  It's not -- I want to clearly, but the last two years I've not thought about winning it at all.  I'm just trying to do things as good as I can.  I'm trying to improve what I want to improve and just take it shot by shot.  I'm really, really happy that I've got two days on the golf course because hitting balls on the range is not like playing.   
 Q.  Tell me about the equipment in the bag.  You've got some new things in there, just what the thinking was behind changing and what you've got in and why.  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Well, I'm trying to find longer solutions for -- well, for everything.  Clubs you have to change when they've been in for a long time.  I've had my putter in the bag now for two years, wedges for three years, the same model, same shape.  5-wood has been in there for eons, and the irons are the same.  Everybody knows about my irons, how long I've used those Nike irons.  If you say I've used those irons for six, seven years nearly, that's not going to continue, so I've been looking for a while, and I'm still sort of on that testing journey, but at some point you have to put them in and play the golf course.  I'm really happy with how they've hit.  The shots that I did hit did what I thought they'd do, so I was happy with that.  New driver in the bag, as well, which is pretty good.   
I mean, it's that time of year when people are trying stuff, but for me, it's been a long time, and eventually you have to make a leap of trying stuff on the golf course.  If it doesn't work, it doesn't work, and you try something else.  But I think okay so far.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT