DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 15, 2018
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your performance today, how would you rate it?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: There was plenty of good, and I played really solid early on.  Felt very comfortable, and then the back nine turned into a bit of a grind.  We got a bit of wind for the last two or three holes which made it a little bit trickier.   
Overall, I don't think, especially with the play I played the back nine, I couldn't have sort of asked for more than 3-under, really.   
There was plenty of times where sort of up and down, kind of like, it was half on the cards but half not and you don't mind making bogey from some of those spots and you feel like you're gaining shots with some bad iron shots.   
On the last, easily that's down in three.  You hole it and you feel so much better.  I've sort of got a way with the back nine there, so there's a little bit of work to do.   
 Q.  What are the things you want to improve on?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Just the way I hit some of the iron shots on the back nine.  Obviously I got the club going a little bit stronger and I just struggled to sort of get through that back nine.   
It's hard when you're under the cosh and you're out on the golf course, it's very difficult and you have to stand on a hole like 17 and knock it on the green, or 18 where there's water all the way down the hole and stuff.   
There's shots that are very demanding out there.  The scoring is always pretty low around here, but still some very demanding shots and you need to be on your game, really, if you're going to have a chance.   
 Q.  How smart was that golf today?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, it was more really good battling.  To be honest, the first eight holes, I could have been a few better.  I played lovely.  Got really unlucky on 2.  I burnt the edges on a couple of putts, so after 8, it was a case of just stay patient and pick some birdies as you go along.   
The back nine was completely opposite pretty much from 12 onwards, really, really struggled and just made really, really good up-and-downs.  You can't really rely on that for the rest of the week, so I'll have to do a little bit of work or whatever it was, sort it out by tomorrow.   
Sometimes those are the rounds that maybe win you golf tournaments at the end of the week and that's kind of what I've been lacking a little bit throughout the year.  Today, just take all the positives that you can from today and know strengths of my game, hopefully I can fix them pretty quickly.   
 Q.  We always say you can play your way out of a tournament on the first day, and you can't win it.  You certainly haven't played yourself out of it.  You're very much in the mix.  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Of course, and as long as the year is, you come into this week still with a chance of Race to Dubai, one round down, and we still have a chance.   
As long as our head's above water for that, we'll be happy and keep going.  Just focusing purely on this tournament, today, 3-under was a good score.  You can play great and not shoot 3-under.  So having struggled on the back nine and done it, that's really, really good.   
 Q.  Give us an insight in what the dynamic is in the circumstances with your great mate, Francesco Molinari and Race to Dubai on the line.  You're out there together; what's it like?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: It's great.  We don't get in each other's way.  I think the great thing about being so close and friends, you have such a good understanding of each other's personality and when it's time to talk or when it's not time to talk, or there's no weird feelings out there or no sort of uneasy moments because you know each other so well.  It was a pleasure being out with him today and he was doing great.  He put a great score together until a couple at the end.  It's always great being out with a friend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT