MASTERS TOURNAMENT
November 14, 2020
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Third round, did you think the pins were going to be easier? 
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: No, I don't think so. It's funny, when you're out there playing, you don't‑‑ you know, you're just so focused on your game, you don't get an overall grasp or outlook of how it's going. Of course there's always one or two guys that will have a great day and that, but it did feel pretty tough today. 
You know, I didn't play my best, but at the same time, the greens‑‑ I was just talking to Rob about it. The greens seemed a little bit tricky to get the pace. I think they had a bit more speed in them. And you know, apart from a silly little three‑putt on one hole‑‑ which I've made very few mistakes this week, so I sort of move on from that‑‑ I was pretty solid. Just birdies weren't as easy to come by for me today.

Q. What's the contrast between The Open Championship with the conditions, the weather, all that. Here it's kind of tricky. 
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Well, yeah, absolutely. It's funny really because a lot of links courses, the construct kind of things that play a part are the same, but in a different way. I think any time you're on links golf, short sided doesn't necessarily mean short sided. You're generally putting pace on the ball, not taking it off a lot of the time. 
So, yeah, there's quite a few differences, and obviously this is beautiful. Different grass, different greens. Links courses, I dread to think what would happen if there were greens like this on a links course on the seaside with the wind. 
Yeah, very different. Each Major has its own tests, has its own unique style. I mean, they're all special for their own individual ways.

Q. It looks like, especially with the long days, guys are starting to lose their energy, physical and mental. How do you keep both up, physically and mentally? 
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, physical should be fine. Mental, probably the harder one. It was funny actually because I watched a little bit this morning, and when you watch golf, again, you get a much better outlook of what's going on, and the course can beat you up at any moment. And you never know what's around the corner. You can see the guys playing sort of how draining it can be at times. 
It's not really‑‑ there's very few simple shots, if any. Just because it's a constant concentration, focus, there's nothing given to you. No matter how good the conditions are and how soft it's been this week, it's still very, very difficult in a way, and you're always just a slight error away from really struggling for par or bogey or worse, and you can sometimes see that in the guys' faces, you know, the shots that you want to get over another shot, and they feel great that it's on the green or where they want it to be. 
But as I say, it's the Masters, and it's a Major. That's kind of what the test should be about.

Q. In a Major, with the exception of D.J., you're still in the mix. 
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Well, yeah, unfortunately, D.J.'s playing, but, again, you never know what's going to happen on a Major, and you get sucked into looking at the leaderboard, and all you can do is play your best. Get your best score you can, and see where you are at the end of the week. Looking at the leaderboard kind of I have no control over what anybody else does‑‑ D.J. or Abraham or Justin or any of them. All I can do is play my game and see where I end up at the end of the weekend. 
Generally, if you've made a good account of yourself and you've felt like you played your part, you sort of walk away with your head held high and move on to the next one.

Q. What's your mentality heading into tomorrow? What's your goal for tomorrow? 
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Well, my goal is to keep doing the same things. I would like to play just a bit better than today, although I did have a few chances, and then see where we get going. If I had a goal, it would be to stay very present and have the correct mindset over every shot, whether I'm 6 under or a few over. Hopefully, I won't get to 6 over. 
That's it really. You finish the Major week, and you see where you're at, and you say you've done. As long as you keep playing well, there's going to be a few more Augustas and a few more majors that hopefully I can move myself up the leaderboard.

Q. You had that run with the 63 shot (inaudible)? Do you feel like you have a chance? 
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I think you always have to feel like that. I think every day you go out, you have to sort of believe that it can be the best day it can possibly be or the best day you've had, and you take it from there. Yeah, it's not like I'm level par. I'm 8 under. I've shot under par for three rounds, which I'm really, really pleased about. I feel like that's a good achievement in itself. 
And who knows? Special days happen. It could be anybody's really. So maybe it will be mine. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT