THE RYDER CUP
September 28, 2018
Tommy Fleetwood
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tommy Fleetwood, no wonder you're smiling.  Two late birdies at 15 and 16 to beat Tiger Woods and Captain America in your first-ever Ryder Cup match.  Sum up that experience experience for us.  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I don't quite know.  It's still running off, we see the day, so you've got to kind of keep going.  But just being out there.  And for me, I could talk about front all day.  On a personal level for me, when everybody talks about the Ryder Cup, those last few holes and the kind of pressure you feel, you can see the leaderboards, that is the Ryder Cup, that feeling on 15, 16, the crowd keeping you going.   
Even the low point when you miss a putt, when you miss a chance on 14, that was just pure plus, it was -- loved every minute of it.  I'm not going to go on about him, because I do all the time, but he's amazing.   
 Q.  Francesco, your first full point in the Ryder Cup? How special to get it in those circumstances?  
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Finally.  Finally.  I love him.  What can I say?  I love him.  It's been nice.  Been a really good game.  We played both really well.  We had a couple of moments where we had to dig in, but we both stayed positive.   
Like Tommy was saying, it's time to reset, start again.  I think we needed to get the crowd going a little bit and we need to get some points back this afternoon.   
 Q.  Tommy, describe the experience from a player's point of view.  It's extraordinary out here.  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Just unreal.  We had that little tough stretch in the middle of the round, I lost three holes out of four, I think, it's easy for it to go flat, but the crowds, the home crowds, as soon as Fran holed that putt on 11, things changed straightaway.  And the crowd carried us through it all the way.   
And there is nothing like it.  And that's just my first morning experience.  Guys have done this ten times.  There is nothing like it, and I can't wait to get out and do it again.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT