DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2018
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TOMMY FLEETWOOD: The wind wasn't up, particularly like yesterday afternoon, the greens just actually took us by surprise how firm they got.  And we've had weeks where we haven't played like a firm golf course or firm greens.  So that was a little shock to the system.  And today there were a few nicer pins, the wind wasn't up as much, and it was more gettable.  The scores kind of show it, I guess.
Q. Have you been changing your game today from yesterday?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I few more putts went in.  I definitely swung it better yesterday than I did today overall.  But today I got the score, and I holed a few putts and that's it.  I think I had five or six lip-outs yesterday.  And the game is about making a score, and today I did it better than yesterday pretty much.
Q. Tommy, compared to a major, how intense or stressful do these playoff events feel to you?  Does this feel like gravy to you, after the season you've had?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: They're all like gravy.
Q. Especially when there's mashed potatoes?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, gravy goes with everything.
It's another tournament.  The majors are on a pedestal of their own, and they're always going to be different.  It's just -- it is a little bit more stressful week, and a little more focus to it.
But it's great to be part of the FedEx.  It's been great to have a status this year for the first time.  And it's nice to be.  I think anybody that's got to this stage they've done really well, and I think it can't really be underestimated how well you've played this year to get to this stage on the PGA Tour, so be happy with that.
For me, I kind of take it tournament-by-tournament.  And it just so happens at this point in the year you start looking at your FedEx ranking a little bit more, you haven't got that much time to make up for it no matter where you are.  You start looking at it a little bit more, but apart from that, just all the same thing.
Q. If you had to look at the choices that Jim has to make versus the choices that Thomas has to make, who do you think has a tougher choice?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Well, it's funny, because kind of when you're on the outside looking in, like you feel like the picks are like simpler than what they are, I think.
I would say -- I don't know.  I think they're both pretty tricky.  I think both teams would like to pick five or six, but you can only pick four.  So I'm just glad it's not our job to pick.
Q. Are the Europeans better when Ian Poulter is on the team?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I don't know.  I've never been on the team with him.  I don't know what he does behind the scenes.  He wins points, obviously.  Maybe.  I don't know the record, but maybe.  He's done some amazing stuff.  So any team with him on it will be better off, for sure.
Q. What's been your take away your first time here at Boston?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I've enjoyed it.  I thought it was very hot on Wednesday.  It's been nice.  I've enjoyed playing in front of the fans.  It's great to be here.  It's part of the FedEx, but also I've seen plenty of new places in America this year that I've never seen before.  That continues on, so that's nice.
Q. What's your favorite place you'd never seen before?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Well, we went to New York one day.  I've wanted to go for a long time.  I'd say that's probably No. 1 on my list so far.  I do have to say without being cheesy, I very much enjoyed my time this year in America for the first time.  I'm looking forward to it again next year.
Q. What was the first place you went, what was the thing you wanted most to see or do?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I wanted to walk around and be part of the city.  That's pretty much all we did.  We went to Broadway and I lived out my dream that I'll never take part in.  We walked down Broadway to Times Square, and wondered around, which I found was very cool.
Q. Did you see something on Broadway?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I saw lots of things, but not on Broadway.
Q. You didn't go to a show?  You would like to have been in a show in another life?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I would have loved to.
Q. You only missed three greens out there?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I didn't realize that, actually.  So that's -- yeah, it was -- it was a good day.  Yesterday I honestly felt like I swung it better.  I felt a little bit more in control.  But I had a really good spell from four on, it was a good spell, hitting good shots.  And then there's a stretch in the back nine where there's some really tough holes.  If you can play those holes from -- if you play 10 through 15, 16, even, if you can get around in level par, then you've done nothing wrong at all, and you have to realize that and try and make birdies whenever they come.  Overall a very good day.
Q. You're close to averaging 90 feet per day in putts holed, that's a really good sign?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Definitely.  Yesterday I think I had five or six lip-outs all throughout the day.  And then finished with a really nice one the last hole of the day for my 33.  And today I sort of got some putts going in.
And, yeah, I feel like we've been doing some good work on my putting, and it's improving all the time.  It's that one part of the day that has such a psychological effect, as well.  We've made really good progress this year with my putting, and there's plenty more to come, hopefully.  But it's an important part of the game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT