RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2018
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. If we can just get some opening comments on the round today.
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, just a bit of both really, a bit of everything, some good stuff and some bad stuff.  It was an early start this morning.  It was one that we weren't that grateful for, to be honest.  It kind of didn't feel -- got through the first couple all right, couple holes to finish, and then started off this morning, wasn't hitting it great, and then kind of progressed through the round quite nicely and eventually got myself to quite high up on the leaderboard and couldn't quite finish the round off with a couple of -- well, one poor swing, wind catches you out, and then a three-putt.  So it was kind of a mixed bag.
Q. Talk about that stretch you went through at the end after the rain delay yesterday, that compared to your ending today.  You had the highs and the lows during the last 24 hours.
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, well, I had to wait -- I had a 10-footer for par on 12 when we had the first rain delay, and I was 1-over at the time, and you know, it's a course where the scoring is pretty good.  So I came back out and hit a lovely putt there and holed it, and then just got on one of those runs where I didn't really -- the next three holes, I hit it close really.  I had four, five, six foot on 15.  16 I holed a really nice one.  And then really didn't want to come in and had to come back and finish.  So I got a really good bit of momentum there, and like you said, the opposite end of the spectrum is the way I finished today.
Q. I know it's your first time visiting here, but tell us about how you learn a course like this.
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Well, I think the -- it's a driver's golf course for starters, especially now it's playing soft.  I know in years past I've watched it on TV, and it's played really firm.  Completely different setup then, which you can see.  But if you drive it well, the four par-5s you have to -- absolutely have to make a score on there.  If you don't, then you're way behind the 8-ball.  That seems to be where you've got to pick shots up.
And then there's certain holes -- the par-3s seem key, if you can play them well, sort of level par-ish, then you seem to be -- you have a head start.  And that's just -- that's what it seemed like.  But with the wind the way it's been and swirling, it's just difficult.  You have to focus on each shot, and you get caught out quite a lot.  So far just any kind of miss is getting punished.
Q. Is it hard to pick a club and commit to it?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Well, yeah, it is.  It's kind of -- the scoring is good, so you know you've got birdie chances, but at the same time you've got shots like -- just on that front nine there, 4, 5, holes going back into the wind -- like into the wind the holes play tough.
Q. Have you ever had a round with three eagles?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I don't think I've had any.  That's a first.
Q. Talk about being in Canada and playing in this national open.
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Well, everybody has been very nice.  I've been lucky that everybody has been very supportive and welcomed me really well.  I would have loved to have been able to do more so far kind of in the city, so I'll try and do that with the family really the next three days.  But got a completely different test with it being soft and the weather, but a really nice golf course.  I love the back nine.  I absolutely love playing that.  Yeah, it's got a really nice atmosphere to it.  It really has.
Q. Why did you choose to put this on your schedule?
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I just wanted to.  I was coming over to America anyway to the PGA TOUR to finish the year.  Canada, I've watched it on TV.  Seemed like a nice event.  People kind of said, it's a course that'll be good for you.  And I came, and I'd never been to Canada before.  It fit in quite nicely, and I'm over here for quite a run now, so it's nice to get going.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT