THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 24, 2018
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How did you view the round?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Today I actually felt a lot more confident, like for all round, if you like.  It was a day where even some bad swings, like tee shots, if it was a bad one, the swing felt all right on it.  That's a good sign if you feel like your swing is in pretty good shape, even if you hit bad ones, you know you're not far away from hitting good shots.   
I was a lot more comfortable today especially off the tee, tee-to-green.  There's still improvement.  Always there can still be improvement, and we have had perfect conditions for a lot of it.  Just nice, on a difficult golf course, to shoot good scores, because nothing is a given out there.  I know there's some good scores but you've still got to do it.   
 Q.  Technically you weren't scrambling at the 12th, but still a nice up-and-down from just off the front of the green on the short par 4?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, we were just talking about it then and that was an absolute shocker of a lie, and it was more a case of hit-and-hope.  Just came out perfect.  My short game has been good, and that makes a big difference, that.   
Yesterday, at the start of the round, they are not -- they are not hard up-and-downs.  Two of them were putts from off the green from some distance yesterday and then a bunker shot on the par 3, 11.  That was my first three holes, three up-and-downs there.  They make a big difference to the actual overall start and how things go from there.   
Same today.  Made a couple of good up-and-downs on 4 and 5.  It just keeps things ticking along, and then it just allows, if you're going to play some good stuff, it allows that good stuff to come out on the leaderboard, so that's important.   
 Q.  You're averaging five birdies per round, ten total.  That's a really good number halfway through the week?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Try and keep that going.  If we average 6-over the weekend, that will be good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT