THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 23, 2018
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: It was a good day.  I didn't put very good swings on it, 9, 10, 11, even 12, my first few holes and holed some really nice putts over a stretch of holes, and then I actually started hitting it very nicely but the putts kind of dried up from a lot of chances.   
But overall, it was a really nice round and like a good mix of golf.  I was happy that I started feeling a lot more confident with my swing coming in the last few holes.  Good how do you approach the FedExCup?   
 Q.  Do you look at points?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I think a couple of things.  Each tournament, I'm pretty good at taking each tournament as it comes and just focusing on that, and every player has their own processes or the things that they are working on at the time.  I feel like I'm very good at trying to improve every week rather than looking at what the overall outcome is.   
At 23rd, it's an all-or-nothing kind of thing.  If I play really well and I do really well, then there's only good things are going to happen, and if I don't, I don't.  But it's not -- there's no real -- it's not like I'm leading the FedEx and I'm thinking about winning it already.   
It's just if I happen to play well, it's a great opportunity more than anything else; if I happen to catch form and win an event or win two events, you never know, but I'm not in the position where it's in the front and center of your minds.   
 Q.  How do you like it compared to The Race to Dubai?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Well, they are different.  I like The Race to Dubai because I held on, just about, last year, so it could have been different if it was FedEx-style.   
I think the FedEx is very exciting, and this is the first time I've ever been involved in it as a player.  And again, I haven't looked loads at what can happen or the situations or anything like that but I know that things can turn pretty quickly and I think it makes it very exciting for TV and for golf in general.   
I think it's got a good place, yeah.   
 Q.  Do you think the travel is easier for the FedEx than The Race to Dubai?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I mean, just about.  You'd be sitting a lot less in a business class seat in the FedEx, but I would say time consuming is a lot less, yeah.   
 Q.  You've had a chance to play with Tiger a couple times this year.  What would you think about having a chance to go toe-to-toe with him at Ryder Cup?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Well, I would love to.  I think for myself personally, it's my first Ryder Cup, and actually getting there and slipping the top on, I think that will be massive.  That's a massive achievement for any golfer.   
If I just so happened to get the greatest golfer in the world, that would just be a bonus.  Whoever it is, I'm always ready and it's the Ryder Cup.  It's the biggest sporting occasion in the world.  Whoever you play, it's the biggest sporting occasion in the world at that time, and for us being European and American, to have the chance to play in that and be a part of that, I think it's very special for us.   
 Q.  Will you watch that $9 million match between Tiger and Phil?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Depends where I am and if it's televised where I am.  If I'm at home and it's not on SKY, then I probably won't go out of my way to watch it.  But I mean, yeah, I wouldn't mind being part of it.   
 Q.  Have you considered your schedule in terms of three and a week off, Ryder Cup --  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: There will be a couple after that, as well.  I mean, yeah, obviously Plan A would be three, week off, because it's my wife's birthday party, so I should probably go to that.   
 Q.  Where is it going to be?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Did you not get the invite?  She's in charge.   
 Q.  Where is it?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: It's at home in the U.K.  So I'll fly back home, come back, hopefully play East Lake, Ryder Cup, the Dunhill.  I always play with the same partner, he's coming over, and the British Masters, I'm playing and supporting Rosey because he's hosting that one.   
It's a busy time.  Just make sure you look after yourself while it stays so busy.   
 Q.  You're playing against a lot of guys this week and trying to compete, but these guys will be your teammates, is there banter and how does that dynamic work?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Not massively.  I can only speak on how I feel, but I know the guys that I am kind of mate-y with, which is most of the team, everyone knows week-in, week-out, you're all striving for the same thing, and I don't think there's any -- everybody's always kind of happy for the guys that do well, and then you want to be that person, anyway, and it's good motivation for you.   
It's not that much different.  I've obviously never been to a Ryder Cup, so I don't know what the environment is like, but all I've heard are unbelievable things and the kind of things that give you goosebumps.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT