BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 19, 2008
Peter O'Malley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RODDY WILLIAMS: Very well played, 6-under par, leader in the clubhouse at the moment, nice start to the week.
 PETER O'MALLEY: Nice, steady start. Didn't do anything wrong really. No bogeys. Missed two fairways, one green, just on the edge of the fringe. Had a chip shot on the last hole for my third shot but yeah just played pretty solid. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: They are growing up the rough in recent years and a tougher challenge than it has been. 
 PETER O'MALLEY: That's right. You certainly don't want to go in it, so luckily I didn't today. The two times I was in the rough, I only had a wedge out, so it wasn't too bad. One was on a par 5, which I could still make birdie from. And on the 3th hole, I was only just off the edge and I still only had a wedge in my hand so it wasn't a big problem. 

 Q. After the start to the year, round a bit of a surprise? 
 PETER O'MALLEY: Yeah, been playing solid. Had a good rest and came back and played well in Shanghai, and then I played solid in the PGA. I've always felt that I was close to playing pretty good, and then I just had a couple weeks off and had some good practise and work with Dennis this week early in the week and I felt pretty comfortable. 
 The greens out there were perfect this morning, so you can fire at the flags, and yeah, playing really well.
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Can you give us the details of your birdies.
 PETER O'MALLEY: On 1, I hit 5-iron to 18 feet. 
 On 6, I missed the fairway, and sand wedge to five feet.
 9, I laid up with a 7-iron and lob-wedge to a foot.
 On 11 I hit driver and laid up with a 6-iron and hit lob-wedge to 12 feet. 
 I hit 7-iron to three feet. 
 And then on 16, I hit a lob-wedge into five feet. 
 I only missed one green, and that was on the third and that was just off the side and I putted it. I had good chances.

 Q. You've been around a long while now, and you've been in contention all the way through your career; how do you keep motivating yourself?
 PETER O'MALLEY: Yeah, I think the fact that I don't play much when I have my time off, I'm doing a lot more travelling now that my kids are schooling in Australia, so I go back -- so I play three weeks and go home for a couple, and then just trying to manage my time better. I just feel like I want to play when I'm out here, which is always good. 
 I've been healthy enough, so I haven't had any injury drama. Still want to keep playing the game is the main thing. 

 Q. Just to follow up, I know a win is always a goal but what's the big ambition the next few weeks? 
 PETER O'MALLEY: Certainly every year you want to get out there and have a win. There's a good run of tournaments and these are the weeks that you want to play good golf and that was the key coming into these weeks. 
 Obviously I have to try to get into The Open at some stage, so hopefully in the next couple of weeks; otherwise, avoiding the qualification would be great. This is the time of year where you really want to be playing good golf and that's what I've sort of set my goal for throughout the year. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Good start, well played. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT