ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 5, 2007
Peter O'Malley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  You like going low in Scotland?   
PETER O'MALLEY:  Yeah. At Gleneagles, Loch Lomond, I shot 62.  I was thinking coming around at 9-under, it would be nice to shoot 62 here, but didn't happen.  It was great though.   
  
  Q.  Course record, equalling.    
 PETER O'MALLEY:  That was a good putt to hole on last then.   
  
  Q.  How far was that?   
 PETER O'MALLEY:  I just pulled my tee shot, I mean my second shot and it kicked a foot from the fence.  I hit it down there and I had like 11, 12 feet for par and made that so it was great.   
 My day really started yesterday - I was level par with four holes to play and I had three birdies on the last four holes - I managed to carry that momentum into today.   
  
  Q.  It must have been just so enjoyable today in terms of playing that well.   
 PETER O'MALLEY:  Yeah, we had a great day.  The two guys we were playing with, have been fantastic fun so we really all had a good time.   
  
  Q.  Have you played this a few times, the Dunhill?   
 PETER O'MALLEY:  I've played every one.  I played the last two Dunhill Cups when it was a team thing, and I've played all of the Dunhill tournaments.  It's a lot of fun.  If you get two good amateurs and a nice pro like Gregory, you can have a great time out there.   
  
  Q.  Couldn't help overhearing your clubs story?   
 PETER O'MALLEY:  Yeah, I was driving out here today, I picked up Steve, my caddie, and I'm just about on the freeway, just coming through Dundee and I heard something rattling in the boot of the car.  As soon as I heard it I knew I hadn't put the clubs in the car.  So I ring my wife and her phone wasn't on so I rang the lady at the guest house we're at.  So she put my clubs in her car and met me at Leuchars Railway Station, which is probably equidistant for both of us.  So it would have taken me another 15 minutes each way.  So I still got here a bit over an hour before and it still gave me time to stretch and warm up as normal.   
 Steve my caddie said, "Yeah, the way it started, this is the makings for a really good day."   
  
  Q.  Would it have been a bit dodgy if you got here and realised?   
 PETER O'MALLEY:  Yeah, it was amazing, I just heard something rattling around, because I take the clubs out because I park the car out in the street.  So I take my clubs in.  I heard something rattling in and I thought, oh, I didn't put the clubs in today.  So it would have been a bit silly when I got out here and made it a lot further trip.   
  
  Q.  Where are you tomorrow?   
 PETER O'MALLEY:  Yeah, I'm at St. Andrews tomorrow, so if I leave my clubs it will only take me two minutes to go back and get them.   
 It's great, any time you play around there, it's fantastic, and it's quite handy to be pretty close.  The only thing I'm worried about is our tee times are a bit late and we're going to miss the rugby tomorrow.  But anyway, I'm sure Australia will take care of England anyway.   
  
  Q.  What's your wife's name?   
 PETER O'MALLEY:  Jill.   
  
  Q.  And what's your best score around St. Andrews?   
 PETER O'MALLEY:  I shot 65 or 66 in '91 in this tournament.  Probably 66 I think.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT