HSBC CHAMPIONS TOURNAMENT
November 10, 2005
Peter O'Malley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GORDON SIMPSON:  We've got Peter O'Malley with us, joint leader with Nick Dougherty at 8 under par.  Peter, just give us a brief assessment of how the day went.
PETER O'MALLEY:  Well, we're very lucky with the weather.  It was a fantastic day out there.  I played extremely well.  I missed two fairways in the first cut and I hit every green in regulation.  I had two putts for birdie on the 18th.

So all parts of the game were extremely well and looked good.  I played extremely well from tee to green.  I'm putting well, so everything was pretty good.
Q.  Good run of birdies there in your round; you must be very pleased with that?
PETER O'MALLEY:  Yeah, I started on 16 where I hit it to two feet.  Then I hit it to four inches on 17.  Then I had two putts from 30 feet at 18.  The first, I hit it to about eight feet.  The second was about six feet    sorry.  The second was a foot.  The third was eight feet, and the sixth was about ten feet.
GORDON SIMPSON:  So you were knocking it really, really close.
PETER O'MALLEY:  I think I hit it outside ten feet four times today.
Q.  You had a couple weeks back home in Sydney, so does this round come as a bit of a surprise, the fact that you've had a break from competition?
PETER O'MALLEY:  Yeah, I had a break for five weeks.  It's been good.  I had a few problems with my back at the dunhill and played extremely well.  Just been home, just worked and had some tournament on that.  I spent the last couple of weeks working on my game in Sydney, and hopefully, so far, it's looking like it's worked pretty well.
Q.  Correct me if I'm wrong, but you haven't won on The European Tour since 2001.  Given today's performance, are you fairly confident that perhaps you can break that four year stretch?
PETER O'MALLEY:  Oh, definitely, yeah.  I sort of work on about a four  or five year stretch.  I won in '92, '95, and '01, so, yeah I think I'm sort of getting around.  It's the 2006 year, so I think I'm getting pretty close to about that time.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Well played again today and keep it up this week.  Thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT