WASHINGTON STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 27, 2018
Gardner Minshew II
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Washington State - 41, Stanford - 38   
 Q.  Third and two, the pass on the last drive -- up the middle, what did you see on that?  
GARDNER MINSHEW II: Yeah, it was originally going around the corner on that play but safeties got live and we knew we had space inside that safety and whoever was going to have to run wasn't going to be fast enough -- one of the fastest guys on our team.   
No worries on third and two, throw it down -- throw it down.  Got a lot of trust in each other.   
 Q.  Did you signal?  
GARDNER MINSHEW II: Yeah.   
 Q.  Being able to distribute it to so many different guys today, Dez had the biggest game and everybody had a big play at certain points.  What does that say about the receiving core?  
GARDNER MINSHEW II: Yeah, I don't know how many guys caught balls tonight but I feel like everybody on our team did.  You know, we were two-deep at every spot, and have just as much belief in one much them as the rest of them and each of them stepped up tonight.  That's kind of been the thing through the whole year that, man, whoever is open is going to get the ball, and just complete trust.   
 Q.  The field goal -- 14 points -- comeback in the third quarters are opening drive --  
GARDNER MINSHEW II: It was big for momentum, getting that drive and going down there.  Made another huge play to get us down.  We wanted a touchdown but we didn't have that much time.  But yeah, just getting on board and, man, hats off to our kicker tonight.  Blake, he had a heck of a game and he really truly won it for us.  We are so proud of him.   
 Q.  In that second half, I think you were something like 25 of 26, something of that sort.  When you're playing that well, do you feel like you can complete any pass?  
GARDNER MINSHEW II: It starts up front and one sack -- and just me running around.  Having that much time, them letting me play, 7-on-7 back there, it's awesome.  Receivers, if I give them a chance, they will catch it.  It's so much fun playing in this offense with the guys I have around me.   
 Q.  Have you ever gone airborne like that on a four-yard pick up?  You kind of jumped on to the sideline?  
GARDNER MINSHEW II: No.  I was trying to set the high jump record right there.  I thought they should give me the first down because I'm imagining -- yeah, that was pretty wild.   
 Q.  Going back-to-back, what does this say about where this team is?  
GARDNER MINSHEW II: Man, this team has just come together so well.  We didn't have a bunch of experience in a lot of spots, but man, everybody believed in each other and we came together, played really hard.  We believe that we are going to win every game.  That's the biggest thing is no matter what the score gets to, we believe that we can come back and win.  We know the defense is going to make the side (ph) when they did, and we know we are going to score.  I think that belief goes a long, long way.   
 Q.  What are you kind of thinking when they score that touchdown and you know you have to go back on the field?  Are you excited because it's another opportunity to go out there?  
GARDNER MINSHEW II: Heck, yeah, I was like -- looking at the clock, that's too much time.  We have three time-outs.  This is what we want.  We want the ball to come to us.  We want the chance to make a play to win the game.  Our defense played a heck of a game.  Had some huge stops down there.  We knew if we get had a chance again, we could go win it for us.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT