DAVIS CUP - SPAIN vs AUSTRALIA
December 9, 2000
Stefan Fransson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. I think quite a few of us are astonished that after two days of fairly hostile
reactions from the crowd out there, that there's been no warnings, as far as we've heard,
to the crowd. Can you tell us what the situation is as far as you're concerned? What
exactly is the ruling?  
 
 STEFAN FRANSSON: Well, the partisan crowd rule, as I'm sure you have seen in the rule
book, most of you, is they're there to prevent disruptions, interruptions in the matches.
So far in this tie, we have not issued any partisan crowd violations, formal ones. We have
asked the crowd, before the matches, as is part of this rule, as well, to be fair to both
teams, to behave in a manner that is good for the tie, good for Davis Cup. We've also
asked them today during the match, told them in Spanish, maybe also in Catalan, my Spanish
and Catalan is not that good, to be quiet during the service, during the points. That's
what we've done so far.  
 
Q. Do you think that's been the case? 
 
 STEFAN FRANSSON: That it has been?  
 
Q. As you say it should be. 
 
 STEFAN FRANSSON: I think the atmosphere here is very good. It's a very lively crowd.
There are times in these matches that we have played so far when the crowd has been close
to what I would consider a partisan crowd violation. Those are the times when we have
asked them extra to be quiet. So far, we haven't felt, me or the two chair umpires, that
we have been in a situation where we should give a partisan crowd violation.  
 
Q. What about the case of a captain inciting the crowd, really going too far with it? I
know you came on. I think Duarte, the Spanish captain, complained about something that
John Newcombe had done, which is probably the only time he got off his chair and did
anything towards the crowd. The Spanish captain seemed to be very animated on the court
right from the first ball yesterday. Did you not think that maybe that merited some sort
of intervention? 
 
 STEFAN FRANSSON: Well, in ties like this, and in other ties, obviously there is a lot
of things going on on the court. There are also a lot of things going on off the court in
terms of talking to captains, in terms of getting them to behave in a way that you want
them to behave. This talk that I had with the two of them today is the only one that has
taken place on the court, but that's not the only discussions we've had since the tie
started.  
 
Q. Because we're about 50 yards away, we can't really hear or see what's going on to
well. There appeared to be some sort of interaction between the two benches just before
that moment. Duarte came on very animated, upset about something, then you had a word with
the two of them. Can you fill us in on what those actual events were? 
 
 STEFAN FRANSSON: Basically what I had seen before that happening was both of them
getting more and more sort of into inciting or giving signals to their parts of the crowd.
That was what I did go on and tell them, to both of them at the same time, to stop giving
signals to their crowd, to stop inciting them. 
 
Q. Were you aware of any verbal interaction between the two benches? 
 
 STEFAN FRANSSON: No.  
 
Q. Two points. Can the umpire act independently or does he have to wait for the referee
to instruct him in a situation like this? Secondly, John Newcombe apparently officially
complained to you this morning about what happened yesterday. I think he was particularly
upset at what happened in that last game with Hewitt. Do you think with hindsight that a
somewhat tougher reaction yesterday might have helped things for today? 
 
 STEFAN FRANSSON: Well, to start with the first one. Are you referring to the partisan
crowd rule or the fact of the captains inciting the crowd?  
 
Q. The partisan crowd rule. 
 
 STEFAN FRANSSON: It's different things.  
 
Q. Partisan crowd rule. 
 
 STEFAN FRANSSON: With the partisan crowd rule, as with all those rules, when we have
Davis Cup neutral officials, we do those decisions together. In case of a partisan crowd
violation, we would do that jointly, me and the chair umpire who is working that match. 
 
Q. But can the umpire act independently, without referring it to you? 
 
 STEFAN FRANSSON: The partisan crowd rule?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 STEFAN FRANSSON: No.  
 
Q. And the second half of the question. 
 
 STEFAN FRANSSON: With regards to my talk to John this morning, yes, we spoke this
afternoon, as we've done every day, and we talked about how the crowd was yesterday. We
were discussing that. A formal complaint, I have not had any, if that's what you're
looking for. We have been talking about it, yes.  
 
Q. I remember you were also the principal referee in Brazil-Spain. Honestly, can you
compare one atmosphere with this? I don't agree with what I'm listening. The people can be
much more aggressive, and you couldn't do there with a penalty point. Do you remember
that? 
 
 STEFAN FRANSSON: Yes, I do, I remember that. With all crowds, when it's big Davis Cup
ties, whether it's this one or the tie in Brazil, or any other tie I've done in the last
ten years, people get very excited. Obviously, it's a Davis Cup final, they get even more
excited. I do remember quite a few that have been as - what is a good word? - Lively as
this one. I myself think that Davis Cup is a competition which brings out a lot of this
from the crowds. Our job is to try, which I hope we do, to have the matches played in
conditions that are acceptable to everybody. That's why we have our conversations with the
captains. That's why we have the rule to use if we feel we need to use the rules. We use
all other means that we have, as well, to keep it on an acceptable level.  
 
Q. Could you tell us clearly if there was an official complaint by the Australian team
on the crowd? 
 
 STEFAN FRANSSON: I guess it depends what you define as an "official
complaint." If you define an official complaint as all our conversations since I
arrived here since Monday, yes, there was an official complaint. If you define it as
something in writing or something along those lines, no, there was not an official
complaint. 
 
Q. For you, it's official, just talking? 
 
 STEFAN FRANSSON: Official?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 STEFAN FRANSSON: No.  
 
Q. John Newcombe also said he complained to you about the behavior of their captain.
Has anything been done with that complaint? What is your comment on his behavior? 
 
 STEFAN FRANSSON: As I said earlier, when the question came up about inciting the crowd,
et cetera, we've had on-court conversations today and off-court conversations previously.  
 
Q. John Newcombe said the captain is out of order, with the way he's behaving on the
court. Do you then feel he's not out of order because there's no action being taken?
 
 STEFAN FRANSSON: "Out of order," I guess it depends what you mean by that. He
was told together, with John on court today, to stop inciting the crowd. Yes, that's what
happened there. I had conversations with him, as I said, between yesterday and today, as
well.  
 
Q. Do you think the laws are tough enough and do you think that having opposing
players, whichever match it happens to be, coming out and being booed when they walk onto
court before the match starts, booed every time they go to make a serve, booed every time
they win a point, is good for tennis and good for sport? 
 
 STEFAN FRANSSON: I think that's a question that doesn't really have to do with the
partisan crowd rule, to be really honest.  
 
Q. Do you think the rules are strong enough? 
 
 STEFAN FRANSSON: I think the partisan crowd rule doesn't cover the behavior of the
spectators. That's something different.  
 
Q. Do you think the rules are tough enough? 
 
 STEFAN FRANSSON: I think the partisan crowd rule is good, if you ask me about that one.
I guess your question is, should we sort of try to also have rules regarding the behavior
of spectators?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 STEFAN FRANSSON: Then, you know, I haven't really been thinking about that, to be
honest. That's a totally different thing. 
 
Q. The second part of the question, do you think it's good for sport what we've seen in
the last three days?
 
 STEFAN FRANSSON: I don't think it's good when sportsmen are being booed. It's not good
in tennis, it's not good in soccer, it's not good in ice hockey, it's not good in
handball, it's not good in whatever sport you look at, but it happens everywhere.  
 
Q. If you can clarify about the court, because the Spanish team complained about how
much clay was on the court. Has clay been added? Was it removed before Friday's game? 
 
 STEFAN FRANSSON: No. The court has just been swept and kept taken care of, basically
the same way the whole week. We have been taking away clay, but that has happened just
because the way they make the court, there will be loose clay that is moved around. It
ends up in certain spots on the court where it's not good to have that much. In those
cases, we take it away. Otherwise, the court has been very good.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT