THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2014
Bryden MacPherson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  BRYDEN MACPHERSON: Well, today was better.  I actually hit the ball in play today.  I actually missed a few putts early, which was an interesting one.  It was my putter, really, actually.  I actually hit the ball, well, enough to be scoring half decent, and through the back nine, as well.  I played solid golf on the back nine.  We just got away this week from one of the feels that I've been using, that I've been playing the last eight tournaments, don't ask me why.  And that has obviously taught me a lesson not to do that again.Q. Was there any particular part of the game that was the problem?BRYDEN MACPHERSON: It was just getting on the golf course.  It was hitting a good play.  Yesterday my short game was actually really good.  I made some nice chips and holed some nice putts and scored pretty well for how I hit it, which is a little scary.Q. (Inaudible.)BRYDEN MACPHERSON: No, I mean, no, not at all, really.  I enjoyed every moment of it, as much as you could.  You go out there and you try and take in the experience for what it is, instead of what you want it to be.Q. How did you deal with things last night and this morning?BRYDEN MACPHERSON: I just went through my routine.  I didn't do anything different in my warmup.  I thought I owed it to myself to at least do that.  You go out there and you play your round of golf to the best of your ability.  Today was not the best of my ability, but it was certainly a lot closer.Q. Adam Scott suggested that you go have a couple of beers?BRYDEN MACPHERSON: Yeah, there might be a couple.  Maybe Scotty will buy me a couple.Q. (Inaudible.)BRYDEN MACPHERSON: Well, I'm down to the range after this.  But next week and a half I'm going to spend in West Palm Beach in my other home and spend some time with my trainer there, and go through some stuff with him.  Then I'm back on the PGA Tour China as of the first of August.  And then the Fiji International, Australasia and Asia starts up the second week of August.Q. (Inaudible.)BRYDEN MACPHERSON: Yeah, the second shot I hit into 10 was to about 12, 15 feet, something like that.  It was a great shot.  There are glimpses out there.  And for me, I'm out there saying I can hit the shots inside the ropes.  It's just about hitting them more often at the right times.Q. Did you enjoy the experience?BRYDEN MACPHERSON: This is my second Open.  First major as a pro, first Open as a pro.  It's major golf.  So I think if you don't enjoy it then you shouldn't be playing it as a living.Q. Are you going to dwell on it (inaudible.)BRYDEN MACPHERSON: I think a fellow Australian, Ian Baker-Finch did a similar thing, first round in '97.  And that triggered his retirement now.  Now, he'd already won a British Open, so he had a little more grandstanding than me.  It would be a little weird for me to retire, I think. I think it's just character building, that's all it is.  If you see it as anything more or anything less, then you're looking at it the wrong way.Q. (Inaudible.)BRYDEN MACPHERSON: Definitely not, no.  I've never pulled out of a tournament, a competitive event, and I plan to keep that for the rest of my career.Q. (Inaudible.)BRYDEN MACPHERSON: I stayed with Mike a couple of years ago, I put up with him, because he's a member up at Hillside.  I went up for the qualifying at The Open that was at Lytham.  I went up there and got put with him.  I had no idea who he was the first five days.  And then all of a sudden he's a famous footballer.  I was with him last week, as well, when I was up at Hillside practicing for this.  He's a good man, and it's nice to come out and watch me.  He texted me last night as well, commiserations and all that.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT