MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2012
Bryden MacPherson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. First round of the Masters, can you talk about the experience.   
BRYDEN McPHERSON:   Yeah, I hit a lot of really good shots.   You know, it's kind of‑‑ I'm an amateur playing in a major, and my second major ever.   Majors are designed to test every single aspect of your game.   That's why they're majors.   That's why major winners are so impressive.   I hit a lot of really good shots and I made a few what I would call amateur mistakes.  
   
 Q.   Were there any nerves on that first tee?   
BRYDEN McPHERSON:   I felt pretty good, actually.   Obviously you're going to be a little bit nervous.   That's to be expected.   But I got out there and just went through my routine and actually smoked a drive straight down the middle, so that's a great experience in its own.   I said to my caddie, we can go home now.   
   
 Q.   You're playing with a former winner, too.   Did you get anything out of that?  
BRYDEN McPHERSON:   Oh, definitely.   Ben, Mr.Crenshaw, whatever I should call him, he's an awesome guy, and he was great to me all day.   He kept patting me on the back.   He was great.   He was really supportive, and it was great playing with him.   
   
 Q.   What are conditions like out there?   Did you get a lot of mud balls?  
BRYDEN McPHERSON:   Yeah, they were tough.   The course is playing 7,600 yards from the plates, and you're getting six inches of run.   It's difficult.   It's playing long, especially for someone like me.   I'm not the longest player around.   The reason why I didn't score as well today was because I had a couple of nervy putts and a couple of nervy short game situations.   But the course is playing really tough.   I got a couple of mud balls, but it's a tough golf course.   They said the pins are pretty tough today.   This is my first Masters.   But from what I understand, they're pretty hard.   There's some interesting flags out there.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRYDEN McPHERSON:   Yeah, the third is usually a Sunday flag, that kind of left flag.   It's interesting to see where they put it back there.   
   
 Q.   I talked to your dad a little bit.   He said you've been practicing all week here really hard, but talk about what the routine was like, and did that pay off today?  
BRYDEN McPHERSON:   Yeah, definitely.   Obviously I didn't have the best ball‑striking day to my current standard, but still, the standard that I played today was a lot better than it was when I started to leave UGA.   If I had had this kind of standard day five or six weeks ago, I would have shot an 84.   My game is definitely improving.   There were just a couple little things, a couple nervy things, I jumped on the bogey train for three holes on the front nine there, and that's all it cost me.   
   
 Q.   Your dad said you trained with your coach every single day.   
BRYDEN McPHERSON:   Yeah, we were there, I think it was nearly five weeks, and I didn't see him maybe four or five days out of five weeks.   
   
 Q.   This is your final go‑around as an amateur.   What would you say in terms of your experience?   
BRYDEN McPHERSON:   You know, you couldn't pick a better tournament to have your last amateur event at.   It's become quite public now that I'm turning pro on Monday, and I'm looking forward to that.   It's a new journey.   I look back on my amateur career, and I say yep, that's pretty good.   It's not quite like someone like Patrick Cantlay has done, or doing, at the moment, but still a lot to be proud of.   As I said, you wouldn't, couldn't pick a better event to go out.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the relationship with the coach at Georgia.   I talked to him today and he said there's no hard feelings, they're watching you today.   What's that really like?  
BRYDEN McPHERSON:   Yeah, no hard feelings whatsoever.   Hacker kind of understood that I wasn't really functioning to my best‑‑ to the best of my ability in that environment at UGA.   He was very supportive of my decision to go back to Oz because the way he said, the way I look at it is that if you're not happy, Bryden is not happy, and if he's here and not playing well, no one is happy.   There's no hard feelings and I'm still a bulldog.   I've got my bulldog head cover on the bag, and got a lot of "Go Dawgs" coming from the side of the fairway, and that's great to hear.  
   
 Q.   How will you approach tomorrow now, maybe try and make the cut, or what are you trying to do?  
BRYDEN McPHERSON:   Yep, I think I saw on the screen I was tied 81st or something like that, or 77th or something like that.   So obviously I'm going to have to play well tomorrow to make the cut.   But it's good.   I'd prefer to be in this situation rather than be within the cut now and trying to hold on like I was at the Open.   Now I can just go out and play my heart out and add it up at the end.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT