SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 27, 2017
Tyrone Van Aswegen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Oh, man, there were, yeah, two chip-ins there.  The one on 7 was definitely, that was a tough shot.  Uphill and downhill and managed to go in.  Just complete lucky shot.   
 Q.  We could hear you yelling on the sixth fairway.  Was that you anyway?  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Probably was.  Did it sound rather scream-ish?   
 Q.  Yes, it did.  What was the key to shooting the round of the day at 7-under par?  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Oh, man, I don't know.  After that double I made on my front nine, the 16th hole, it was just basically a decision to carry on and keep going.  You know, just a forced decision.   
If you hang your shoulders your round is probably toast.  I was just carrying on, going about my business, and yeah, started making putts.   
Chipped in twice.  I think I bogeyed a par-5, which is crazy.  Other than that, it was pretty good.   
 Q.  Was it tough to adjust to the conditions?  They seemed to be changing and getting breezier a the afternoon went along.  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Yeah, it was tricky out there, but it wasn't that bad.  It was definitely playable.  There were some tough holes out there and some birdie holes out there.   
I think it's calmed down a little bit right now, so hopefully the guys can play as many holes as they can.   
 Q.  You had a great finish at Safeway.  What carried over from that tournament to this tournament after several weeks off?  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Yeah, that's the tricky part.  You've got this good feeling, this good momentum, and you just want to keep playing.  Unfortunately I had two weeks off.  Again, I got to rest my body, rest my mind, and still had some good feelings in my swing.   
Just try and carry that over to this week.  I mean, there is not an exact formula, but you've got to do what was working and try and figure it out as you go.   
 Q.  Today what happened with that double bogey?  How did you recover so well afterwards?  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: I don't know.  What are you talking about?   
 Q.  (Laughter.)  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: I don't know.  You know, it's golf.  I hit a bad shot and then an even worse shot after that.  Just like that, you have a double.   
So, again, I had to just make a decision to keep going.  If you don't do that your round is toast.  I was pretty happy to rebound after that.  I had some luck along the way, too, so that was nice.   
 Q.  How about the course today?  The wind picked up.  From watching on television there wasn't a lot of people making putts.  What were the conditions like out there this afternoon?  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: It was tricky.  That front nine the wind was blowing, and the greens are tricky to read.  They're a really good shape, but just tricky to read.  The wind probably helped that along, too.   
It was tricky, but if you're hitting good golf shots you can make birdies?   
 Q.  What's the game plan for tomorrow knowing the position you're in?  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Well, depends on the weather.  Looks like it's going to be cold and windy.  Just try and be prepared for that and play some good golf hopefully.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT