NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2013
Tyrone Van Aswegen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   When we just came outside to come talk to you, I noticed the wind, which wasn't blowing like an hour ago.   Did it just come up all of a sudden in the back?  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN:   Yeah.   All of a sudden it came up, and it was a completely different wind to what we've had all week.   So 15, 16, 17 played really difficult, straight into the wind at was 235 yards, you know, I thought I hit a good shot, but wasn't even close.   
And then 18, was aiming to the left, and the tee shot where you have to hit it to the left, there was a big tree on the left.   Not very good, but it was a tough shot.   I was just glad to hopefully do it.  
   
 Q.   When did perhaps the nerves start kicking in?  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN:   You know, I felt good on 15, on the tee shot on 15, you know, just a few nerves, maybe not good enough to hit the shot and you hit the shot anyway and it goes left.   
I hit a great recovery shot, and I wasn't thinking, oh, my goodness, I'm screwing things up.   I was just hitting shots, and I got a bad break on 15; and just kind of snowballed from there.  
   
 Q.   How nervous were you over that putt in comparison to other putts?  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN:   You know, if you're trying to win a tournament that's the kind of nerves you think you going to feel and that wasn't even to win a tournament.   It was to finish fourth or I don't even know what I finished, but you know what's at stake anyway, getting your card.   You put all that pressure on yourself, and that's what happens; you get nervous.  
   
 Q.   Pleased with the week overall?  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN:   Yeah.   Coming into the week I would have taken it.   
   
 Q.   So like I said, I don't know if ‑‑ I think I saw a projected 19, but I mean you're still probably going to have some pressure on you at Ponte Vedra.   
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN:   I think so.   You don't know for sure what's going to happen.   They predict that maybe you'll get it, but you know, again, it's going to be a nerve‑wracking week.   I'm just going to have to play well, you know.   There's no secrets.   You have to get over it, just play well.  
   
 Q.   The way you played this week, would you just rather go play there next week or are you looking forward to the week off?  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN:   No.   I look forward to the week off.   I've been home for four days in three months, so I'm ready to get back and relax for a few days and get back to work.  
   
 Q.   And where do you live?  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN:   San Diego.   Catch a flight at 7:00.  
   
 Q.   We won't keep you.   Thank you very much.   
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN:   Thanks very much, guys.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT