NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2013
Tyrone Van Aswegen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Whatever wasn't straightened out from yesterday you got straightened out today.   You didn't have a bogey. 
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN:   Right.   It was a good ball striking day.   I had a lot of good shots from the fairways, and I hit them close, too.   Unfortunately didn't hole as many of those 6 to 10‑footers as I would like to.   I rolled in a couple long ones.

Q.   You talked a little bit yesterday about just kind of releasing the pressure and go play and you usually play well.   What are your thoughts going into tomorrow knowing that if you hold your position or improvement, the leap that you can make in the finals?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN:   Yeah.   I mean that's all good stuff.   It's all ‑‑ you know, nothing ‑‑ I mean you say stuff like that.   It doesn't sound bad, but I mean you try and keep up that good energy and just try and do the same thing you've been doing the whole week. 
We're on a good golf course, ball striker's golf course.   And if I can do anything like I did today, it would be great.   I feel pretty confident about having a good round and hopefully securing a card for next year.

Q.   How do you kind of balance tomorrow the objective of winning a golf tournament as compared to making sure you get your finish to get your card?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN:   Yeah.   That's a tricky one.   I don't think there's a real formula for balancing it.   It's just ‑‑ you know, you try to not think of all that stuff, you know.   It creeps in every now and then but you kind of gotta just let it disappear.   And you just try and play good golf, hit good shots, and all of that is just the end result from doing what you can do in the present. 

Q.   I don't know if we asked you this yesterday or not, but what's the difference in your game this week versus the way you played the last two weeks?   What are you doing better?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN:   I'm hitting it a little better and I'm making more putts. 

Q.   That works.
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN:   Yeah.   Definitely ‑‑ and all it is is, you know, like one or two 20‑footers a round.   The you know, that's the difference.   I made hardly any putts the first two weeks, and I feel like I've been putting good.   It's just a matter of reading correctly and the ball going in. 
I haven't made any big changes.   You gotta almost double down on what you gotta ‑‑ what you've been doing, not change anything, and just go back to business.

Q.   Giving yourself more chances. 
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN:   Yeah, definitely.   Like I said, if I was putting, you know, really well, I would have shot maybe five shots better today.   But you know, I'll take my score and keep fighting tomorrow.

Q.   How do you go about that process of putting the other stuff out of your head on the course and focus on the shot in front of you?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN:   Yeah, again, there's no real formula for that.   You just gotta do your best to execute your routine and execute one shot at a time.   It sounds so cliche, but that's the best possible way to play golf, do your own thing, play against the golf course and the rest takes care of itself. 
You know, if there was a formula for it, someone would be really rich.

Q.   Do you do any mental tricks to distract yourself from those things or circle the focus back around?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN:   You know, it's almost, you know, what I do to stay in the present is discuss the shot with my caddy, you know, because if you're having a conversation about that shot, about executing it, then you're pretty well in the present.   And you know, that's what we try and do just to stay in the present. 
There's a lot of things you can do.   I mean, you know, breathe, I don't know.   Everyone has different sort of techniques, but I've found that discussing the shot at hand with my caddy is the best way to do it.

Q.   How are the conditions today?   Far less wind, but the scores seem to be pretty tough to get at. 
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN:   Yeah, I mean again, it's such a good golf course.   I wish we played more courses like this over the year.   Even if the weather is good, you still get a good test.   And the greens are still pretty soft.   They're not as firm as what they can be.   I would expect tomorrow they'll firm out a little, but as you can see, much of the same tomorrow, but tougher scores. 
It's just a good course no matter what the weather is.   I mean I'm sure the scores are a little better today.

Q.   Nobody is going low.   67 is still the best score. 
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN:   Right.   It's a tough course, especially they tucked the pins.   It's tough to get to those holes.   If you hit a good shot at 6 foot, 10 foot, those are good shots.   Par‑3s are good par‑3s and the par‑5s are all good holes.   You can make 6 just as quick as a 4, so good course.

Q.   We were talking about that this morning.   A field average 73 yesterday and you had your hands on the ball. 
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN:   Oh, gosh.   Exactly.   That's another reason is yesterday you could place the ball and today it was playing it down.   It makes a difference. 

Q.   Best of luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT