RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2017
Tyrone Van Aswegen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You teed off at 7:30 this morning.  How much did the rain affect you, because there was some rain out on the golf course?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Not too much.  We teed off, it was not bad.  It was just overcast and then probably our seventh, eighth, ninth hole, it was really raining.  It wasn't too bad.  Rain jacket, umbrella.
Q. The guys were saying last year it was really firm and bouncy, and it's a really different type of setup so far this year.
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Very different.  Last year we were almost driving it in the water on 18, and different this year.  I played it as a three-shot hole today.  It was completely different but it's in great shape.
Q. So 66, a bunch of birdies, some eagles.  What did you do well out there today that helped you shoot a low round?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: My irons and my putting was really good.  I chipped in for the eagle, so that was fortunate, and that was in the rain.  So I was pretty happy about that.
Q. Let's take a look at the FedEx.  Late in the year, 127.  How much does that play in your mind with so little golf left, or are you taking it one tournament at a time, one round at a time?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: You had to bring that up, didn't you.  You know what, I'm in that position.  There's nothing you can do.  You've just got to -- well, there is.  You've just got to do your thing.  There's nothing more you can do than your best.  So just carrying on, and I had a really good start today, so I'm excited about it.
Q. 6-under, thought you were going to make one there on the ninth, wouldn't quite go in.  But your thoughts on how you played, especially your back nine was your first nine and you were 5-under making the turn?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Yeah, that's the nine you want to make your good start, your birdies.  There's three par 5s, and I was fortunate enough to do that this morning.  Hot start and just trying to keep it going.
Q. A chip-in on 16, the par 5.  Always good to knock some of those in.
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: That was awesome.  Driver in the rain was coming down, too.  I hit a great shot and it went in, so I was fortunate.
Q. A lot of guys talking about FedExCup Playoffs.  This is crunch time and there's not a lot of time left.  You're 127 and 125 gets in.  How much does that play into your emotions the next month here?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Yeah, it's everything.  This is why you're doing what you're doing.  It's a tough spot to be in.  I'd rather not be in it but I am where I am, and there's nothing I can do besides do my best, and that's kind of what I'm doing right now.
Q. Why don't we start off with the eagle at the par 5, 16th hole.  What did you see on that hole?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: I hit a good drive, and right as we're walking to our second shot, the rain really started coming down.  I hit the wrong club but I was in a good spot.  I was just short of the green and pretty basic chip.  It was raining and I hit a good shot and it went in, so I was pretty fortunate.
Q. Impressive, especially since the weather conditions.  It only took you 23 putts to make a 66 today.  What did you like best about your round?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Obviously I putted well but I was able to recover when I missed the greens.  So tap-in par is always good, and then I took advantage of some good iron shots, too.
Q. Only a few weeks left before the FedExCup Playoffs begin.  You were right on the cusp.  What's the game plan going forward, not just this weekend, but for the next few weeks?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Make a lot of birdies.  I just have to play well.  There's no beating around the bush here.
I'm playing well.  I feel like I'm doing everything pretty well, so I'm excited about what's coming up.
Q. How much of an advantage was it to get out early with the soft condition, and maybe be a little more aggressive?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: I don't know if it was an advantage.  We had a lot of rain to deal with.  It's always difficult playing in the rain.  We're playing the ball down, too, so you hit the ball in the fairway and it's covered in water, so the ball doesn't react quite like it normally does.
That was kind of tricky.  The ball, it went shorter and it squirts around sometimes.  But it was soft.  If you did hit good shots, you could get close to the flags.
Q. Clubhouse leader, how pleased are you and what was the key to your round?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Yeah, I'm really happy.  I putted well and hit some good irons.  When I was out of position for my approach shots, I was able to get up-and-down.  So it was good.
Q. No. 16 was your best hole of the round so far.  Can you take us through what that hole played for you?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Yeah, par 5, I pitched in, chipped in for eagle and yeah, it was -- that pin is just on the left of the slope and I was able to hit a good shot and take the slope and it went in.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT