VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 10, 2017
Tyrone Van Aswegen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. When you got here this morning, you knew that you had to take advantage of the calm conditions as long as you had them?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: I don't know what happened on the back nine.  That's a tough nine.  I played it really well, struck it well and made a lot of good putts.
Q. It's a survival test once the wind picks up.  How do you adjust to those conditions as they evolve through the round?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: I don't know if you adjust.  You've just got to keep hitting good shots and take the putts, maybe get them -- obviously it played tougher on my back nine, but I still hit it well.  I wasn't too worried.  It wasn't a tough -- it's a tough wind but it wasn't like a gale blowing.  It was okay.  It wasn't too bad.
Q. How happy are you with this number, knowing how difficult this golf course can get?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: I'm really happy.  Been a while since I've had 6-under on TOUR.  I'm very happy.  I'm hitting the ball well, swinging well, putting well.  So I'm excited for a good weekend.
Q. What's the most positive thing that you take from your first 36 holes into tomorrow?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: My putting.  I think I've been putting well this year.  I just haven't made a lot of putts.  Today they were going in.  Sometimes your speed's a little off or your line is a little off.  Today it was speed and line, both were good.  I'm pretty happy that both of them matched up.
Q. You mentioned you had not had a 6-under in a while.  Were there indications you were close?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Yeah, I felt like I was trending in the right direction.  At the Honda, I actually played really well.  I had two bad holes that cost me good rounds.  I felt it coming.  I felt like I was playing well enough to do something good, and eventually I did.
Q. And what do you remember from last year?  I know you didn't make the cut last year.  What was different between last year?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: I think my ball-striking.  Last year I was just a little bit off.  You know, you can't do that around here.  You've got to hit it straight.  This year, hitting it better.  Hitting the right lines off the tees.  I'm pretty happy about that.
Q. Getting to the weekend is the biggest goal on Fridays, but making up some serious ground, as well; you did both, how happy are you right now after 36?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Yeah, obviously really happy.  That's the first goal is to make the cut and hopefully tomorrow have a good round and try and be in contention on Sunday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT