TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 2016
Tyrone Van Aswegen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You started with a bogey today.  It's funny sometimes you start with a bogey and then you go on a tear.
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: I know, I wasn't having too much fun after the first hole, but I was really nervous starting out.  I hit a bad tee shot, made a bogey.  But came back nicely on the back nine.
Q. You settled down a lot; what was the key to that?  What made you find this inspiration?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: I just tried to find a rhythm.  You know, when there's this tough a pressure, you get a little quick, and that's my tendency.  Just find a rhythm, and it got better after that.
Q. Did you find that because all of you were playing so well that one kind of fed off another?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: I think that definitely helps.  Daniel was holing a whole bunch of putts and we started to follow, and I think there's definitely a momentum factor that comes into play.
Q. What is your mindset for tomorrow?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Same type of thing, just try and maybe get off to a better start and have a good rhythm all day.
Q. That birdie fest out there, to be a part of that, what was that like?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: It was awesome, man.  It's definitely good to see all the birdies going in, not bogeys and stuff like that.  It was fun, and we definitely fed off each other.  It was awesome to make some putts and hit some good shots.  It was a lot of fun.
Q. You bogeyed the first hole, but did you think you'd walk out of here with a 65 after that?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Definitely not.  I wasn't feeling too good after that bogey, but settled down, found a good rhythm, and yeah, made some birdies coming in.
Q. How are you feeling about tomorrow now?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: I feel good.  Again, I started off real nervous and found a rhythm, so hopefully tomorrow I can find a rhythm a little earlier.
Q. You bogeyed the first hole, and I know you've talked about it a lot; what didn't go right and how did you correct it by the time you got around to 9?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: I think I just got a little quick early on, and when I get quick, I tend to hit left, so that's what happened on the first tee shot.  Got a little quick, ball went left, bad rough, bunker, and just a bit of a mess on the first hole.  But settled down nicely and found a rhythm and was good from there.
Q. What were the clubs that were helping you start to put up those birdies after nine?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Just a combination really.  You have to drive it well, hit good iron shots and then make a putt.  I was really happy to find something out there and start making those putts.
Q. Did you take a look at the leaderboard knowing that guys were starting to put up good numbers?  Did you have any sense of where you need to be in the afternoon?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: I saw a leaderboard early on, and I think it was the 9th hole, and I saw I think I was in 12th position, so I'd slipped back, and then started to make birdies and I didn't look again.  I think I just found a good rhythm and didn't really care about anything else.
Q. What's been the key to you keeping this consistency the last three rounds and staying right in the mix of this thing?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: I think I've got a good mindset going.  I'm hitting the ball, putting it really well, and yeah, just keeping -- trying to keep it relaxed.
Q. Comparatively to other 10-hole stretches, have you been as on as you were today, this year?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Yeah, I think early on in the year I had a good one, but yeah, it's been a while since I've felt that good form going.  It's nice.
Q. Any holes stand out amongst those birdies?
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: I think any time you can have three or four birdies in five holes, it's a good thing.  I'll look back, and I don't even know right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT