TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
August 5, 2016
Tyrone Van Aswegen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Two great solid rounds for you.  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Yeah, played really solid.  I don't think I made a bogey, so I'm just hitting it nicely and making a lot of putts.  That's always a difference maker.   
 Q.  Speed, control.  I notice that 17 went by fast, but a great comeback par putt.  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Yeah, that one caught me a little bit.  I didn't think it was that quick.  Other than that my speed has been really good.   
When you're seeing the lines with good speed they tend to go in a lot.   
 Q.  For the guys playing this afternoon, are there any hole locations or do you think the breeze will be a factor for them?  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: I think on 15, the drivable par-4, it's a tricky hole.  That pin back right, it's like hitting to a small dinner table, you know.   
So you can layup there or you go for it, but either way it's a tricky hole.  You're going to see birdies and you're going to see bogeys, too.   
 Q.  No bogeys through 36 holes.  What's been the key to your great play so far?  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: I feel like my swing coach this week, Robert Baker, he's helped me a lot just getting a little bit more in the slot.  I'm holing a lot of putts.  It's a good combination.  Hopefully I can keep rolling it.   
 Q.  You finished tied for third to the Frys.com this year.  Do you have a sense of what it will take to get your first PGA Tour win this weekend?  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: No.  I have no idea.  (Laughter.)  You know, hopefully just keep playing good and, yeah, keep going.   
If you think of winning right now you know you're going to be (indiscernible.)  So I'll just keep doing what I'm doing and hopefully play well again.   
 Q.  You've had no bogeys, no blemishes on your card this week.  What's been working for you?  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: I had my swing coach out earlier this week, Robert Baker, and he's helped me a lot just slotting it a little bit better.  I'm rolling it really well on the greens.  It's a good combination.   
When that happens, you tend to play well.   
 Q.  You haven't had a professional win yet.  Is that something you're thinking about, or do you just need to let that go when you're out there?  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Yeah, if you think about that you're probably not going to do it.  Just taking care of business and just trying to play well again.  That's all I can do.   
I can't think of winning.  I think you'll be overwhelmed if you do that.   
 Q.  You were talking about having your swing coach out this week.  What did he tweak?  What's working?  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: So I've been fighting the whole year being under the plane, you know, which is too far inside.  Guys talk about being stuck.  I've been stuck a lot lately.   
He helped bet get it a little more online.  When you get it online, things are usually pretty good.  You hit good golf shots.  I'm putting great.   
 Q.  Talk about your round today, putting especially.  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Yeah, drained a couple long ones I think early on.  On the 10th hole I think I had like a 45-footer or something.  Make a birdie on 10, you know, you're gaining a shot on the field there.   
But I'm hitting the ball quite well and putting really well.   
 Q.  Is this the best you've played this season?  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: It's been a while.  My very first event I played well.  I finished T3.  I played solid; made a lot of cuts; just haven't played that well on the weekend.   
It will be a challenge this weekend, but I'm looking forward to it.   
 Q.  What's the mentality that keeps you from getting a bogey out there?  Keep focused, centered?  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Yeah, just not think of making bogeys, I guess.  Yeah, it's a tricky won.  If you go out there and just take care of your business and just hit good shots you're probably not going to make a lot of bogeys.   
I expect to make a couple bogeys this weekend.  That's just how golf is.  I don't think anyone has gone 72 holes without a bogey.  Maybe they have.   
That's fine.  It's up and down.  As long as you're making a lot of birdies, that's all that counts?   
 Q.  (Question regarding prediction for afternoon scores.)  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: I think someone should get to maybe 10.  It's still quite soft out there.  Not that firm.  The greens are pretty receptive.  I think it depends on the wind.  If the wind stays like it is, maybe 8, 9, 10.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT