FRYS.COM OPEN
October 18, 2015
Tyrone Van Aswegen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Been a topsy-turvy sort of day for you.  Didn't start out so well, however.  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: No, it was a struggle this morning.  Man, woke up and I was so dizzy.  You know, I thought if I get to tee it up I'll be pretty happy.   
You know, an hour before the tee time I was still lying in the hospital.  I got out here and my goal was to finish the round, and I did.  Threw in some birdies along the way, which is awesome.   
I'm pretty happy.   
 Q.  Fill in som gaps here.  You were sitting in the hospital about an hour before your tee time not feeling so well and you end up making it to the first tee?  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Right, exactly.  That's never happened to me before.  They said it was severe dehydration.  They were poking needles trying to find a vein.  They weren't showing.  Eventually they got in my two bags of fluid, and they said dehydrations and vertigo.   
I was so dizzy the whole round.  Putting was the most difficult for me.  I don't know if it was bending over and looking sideways, but I made some putts.  I mean, I don't know.  It was weird.  (Indiscernible.)   
 Q.  And there was absolutely no signs that we could see when you were on the golf course that you were in any sort of illness.  Must have been somehow of a round for you.  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Yeah, again, I was just trying to conserve energy.  My caddie, Jeff Johnson, did a great job hydrating me, giving me snacks along the way, keeping me fueled, and keeping me going.   
I was able to do that.  I don't know, just real happy with the finish.   
 Q.  Absolutely.  For a long time there it looked like you may well have been part of a five-man playoff.  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Yeah, it was looking good, but I guess someone made a putt there.  Pretty good.  Good for them.  To make a putt through those shadows on the last hole is some playing.   
I was just really happy to be in that position.  Whoever wins, wins.  That's pretty awesome.   
 Q.  Nevertheless, this is one of your best performances out here on the PGA TOUR.  You've been battling the last couple years.  Tell me what this does here now for your momentum.  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Obviously you want to get off to a flying start.  Last year I got off to the complete opposite.  I missed four of the first five cuts, and the first tournament out this year I get a good finish.  It good a long way.  I'm happy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT