JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
September 14, 2003
Notah Begay III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:   Notah, thanks for joining us, great playing today, 65 in your third round.  There was some wind out there and certainly some wet conditions that made a long golf course even longer.  Maybe just talk about your third round. 

NOTAH BEGAY III:  Well, I think in an effort to improve ratings, I went on USA Network before the round, and I forecasted somebody to get hot early, and I figured since no one else was doing it, I had to take it upon myself to hold true to that statement, so I reeled off five birdies starting with the fifth hole and just kind of cruised it in from there.  I didn't have any serious threats of bogey.  I played really steady golf and just struck my irons extremely well.

JOEL SCHUCHMANN:   You're going to finish a hole or two ahead of the leaders if not more, and you're one off the lead entering tomorrow.  Talk about that a little bit.  Is that a position you like to finish? 

NOTAH BEGAY III:  I think I'll have some time to eat some breakfast then since we're playing so early, so I'm looking forward to that.  You want to post a number.  That's what it's all about.  I mean, with 17, everybody in the top -- within two or three shots, with how the greens are holding, they're going to smooth out tomorrow, and I'm not sure what the wind is going to give us, but you can't back off.  I mean, you've got to stay aggressive, you've got to keep your nose to the grindstone and just continue to press and execute and try and shoot a number, just put something up there for everyone to look at. 


Q.  Your round tomorrow will resume in that stretch of holes where you made all those birdies today.  Do you think that will help you right out of the blocks tomorrow?

NOTAH BEGAY III:  Actually I got all the way through the 8th hole, so everyone is going to be dealing with something.  For me it's not all that great to start off on No. 9.  That's a tough hole to start on.  There's guys that are going to be starting on maybe the 4th hole or the 5th hole, which might be a little bit easier to get into the flow of things, so I'm going to have to go out there and be mentally sharp.  It's not like starting out on 1 or 10 where you have really wide, generous driving areas and you can hit a loose tee shot and be in the fairway.  On this hole you've got to hit a good tee shot or else you're hitting 3-wood in there.  That's a disadvantage. 

I'm in a great position.  I've got a good group of guys that I like and we get along very well, and I think that helps.  Joe Durant is playing, he's at 10-under or 9-under, and so you can't really sleep on any of these players out here.


Q.  I watched the end of that first round, today's, and it looked like you were just playing the safer shots, the smart shots.  Once you get on that roll, then you feel like it's time to maybe back it off a little bit and play it smart?

NOTAH BEGAY III:  Well, I think it comes down to the simple concept of the hardest part is getting into contention.  Once you're there, it's just a matter of giving yourself chances and not beating yourself.  You have to make them come get you.  There was so much golf left to play that I knew we were going to have to -- another seven or eight holes left in the day, including the fourth round, there was no reason to get overly aggressive unless the number just -- and the winds were so swirling and unpredictable that there was a couple times I caught a gust of wind and hit a shot 15 yards further than I expected.  I hit it over the green on 12, and I can't hit my 4-iron that far.  I mean, I'm not physically that strong.  I just didn't see any sense in beating myself.


Q.  This is typically moving day or yesterday should have been moving day and this is moving on day, and then tomorrow you're not supposed to be here.  Is this just totally surreal or do you just take it for what it is?

NOTAH BEGAY III:  No.  I mean, this is what we do.  This is our job.  I feel bad that we can't -- we couldn't finish the golf tournament on Sunday.  We're extremely grateful for everything John Deere has done for us and we want to come out here and perform and give them the best exhibition possible, and I think that they're in for a real treat tomorrow.  I hope people skip school and call in sick and come out and see it and come out and watch a good golf tournament because you've got some great names.  This is one of the strongest fields they've ever had and I think the tournament is gaining some momentum.


Q.  When you played well at Honda, you mentioned your brother oversees it.  Is he still there?

NOTAH BEGAY III:  No, he made it back in good condition and I'm very, very happy to see him and spend some time with him.  I brought him out to the Memphis, to the FedEx St. Jude Classic, and we just caught up on everything, so it was nice to have him home.

JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  His name is Greg, right? 

NOTAH BEGAY III:  Yeah, Greg. 


Q.  Now, are you going to write all the notes for the kids to skip school?

NOTAH BEGAY III:  Oh, yeah, I'll make sure that we photocopy enough handwritten notes for them and I'll make some phone calls on Monday night.


Q.  If I could have you clarify, you said before you had finished eight holes?

NOTAH BEGAY III:  Yes.


Q.  They only have you listed finishing seven holes.  Can you tell us what you did on the eighth hole?

NOTAH BEGAY III:  I parred it.  I hit it in the bunker and got up-and-down.  I thought you guys had all cutting edge technology out here.  I mean, what's going on (laughter)? 

JOEL SCHUCHMANN:   Notah, thank you, good luck tomorrow.




End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT