PGA TOUR MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 2, 2000
Notah Begay III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







NOTAH BEGAY:  Well, obviously I'm sure everyone is well aware, it's been a real up-and-down year.  I started out the year playing pretty well at the first couple events in Hawaii, then had, you know, my incident with the DWI.  That took its toll on me mentally.  It just basically had a negative effect on every phase of my life.  Took me a while to get back to where I felt I was capable of playing.  I finally broke through as far as started playing well at the US Open, then capped it off with two back-to-back wins.  Played good at the Loch Lomond and the British, as well.


Q.  In retrospect, did the incident and all about it turn out to be a positive in your life, not just because of stopping drinking, but everything else?

NOTAH BEGAY:  Yeah, it was.  It was a definite positive.  And I think that's the only way that if you're going to continue to succeed in your profession, you've got to try and learn from your mistakes and your bad judgment.  If I can't learn from that situation and the troubles that it brought me, then I'm pretty dumb (laughter).

Q.  I don't think anybody thinks that.

NOTAH BEGAY:  I just tried to take care of it in a responsible manner and get back to playing golf.  I've been a much more appreciative individual because of it.  I've also gained a greater sense of, I guess,respect for myself and for the game I play.

Q.  You are as hot as anybody in golf right now.  A couple of wins already.  With the exception of getting into some trouble at 17 at the British, even Loch Lomond, you're just on fire.  What are you doing differently now that you weren't necessarily even doing at the end of last year?

NOTAH BEGAY:  You know what, it's just basically a learning process.  I've just really picked up a few, I guess, mechanical, I guess, keys in my own swing.  I mean, my keys for myself are totally different than somebody else.  For me, it just has to do with tempo and learning how to get through four rounds of golf maintaining a steady tempo.  Once I learned to do that, I was hitting more fairways.  When I do that, I'm going to play good because I tend to be a fairly good iron player.  So my thinking was just basically maintaining a better tempo and being more patient when I get into, I guess, contention for a tournament.

Q.  You played at Castle Pines last year.  How does this course and this tournament set up for you?

NOTAH BEGAY:  I really like this event.  It's close to home and the elevation is basically the same.  I don't have any problems adjusting to it. The heat and everything is just similar to where I grew up.  I look forward to this event every year.  I feel I'm going to play well this week.

Q.  You talked about how the incident affected all parts of your life. How so?  Was it a distraction?

NOTAH BEGAY:  Well, it was a distraction personally.  It was a distraction and sort of a negative focal point for my family as far as I don't mind, you know, when I have to deal with the media and criticism and things, because I've learned to grow accustomed to that as far as living I guess more in the spotlight.  But when my family's had to deal with it, having microphones shoved in their face, you know, get some of their quotes and stuff printed, it's difficult.  That was probably the hardest thing for me was how it was affecting others because I was having a hard time, but I knew that I was going to get through it.  I was just hoping that it wasn't going to take a huge toll on my family.

Q.  I was at AT&T when you came in for that press conference.  You made a real point of saying that you had to be stand-up about this.  Obviously a lot of other athletes, when something like this happens, they kind of run and hide.  Can you explain your thinking about why you were so up front in speaking about what happened?

NOTAH BEGAY:  Well, I guess it's just a real simple analogy in that, I mean, if you take  -- if you choose to be a responsible person and accept the role model status that's bestowed upon you by virtue of what you do for a living, you've got to take any and all opportunities to provide positive examples.  It was a negative situation, but I think I tried to turn it into a learning point for young kids who are going to be faced with choices.  I mean, there's, you know, kids coming up through high school that are just getting to that phase where alcohol is being sort of introduced to them at social functions, and I wanted to at least try and get through to a small percentage of those kids that, "Yes, you do have a choice," and, "No, you don't have to get involved with that if that's not what you want to do."  Immediately after that, even at the AT&T, I did a public service announcement for Channel 1, which is a nationwide high school network, about my situation and how it affected me as far as jail and all the other things that went along with that.  So maybe if someone reads it or comes across it, it might make them think twice.

Q.  What kind of reaction did you get, especially from not only just fans but also from the Native American community?

NOTAH BEGAY:  Everyone was real supportive.  I think it was simply because I handled it in a very responsible manner - people respected that.  I think for the most part the public and the fans and supporters are willing to forgive you for certain things that you do, within reason.

Q.  A lot of golf fans here in northern Nevada want to see you play well, but on the other hand are kind of selfish and want to see you come back here.  What do you have to do to make The Presidents Cup in your eyes?

NOTAH BEGAY:  I think I just need to get in contention one of these next three events.  And I know that when I get in contention, I have a tendency to at least, you know, pull it off or come close.  That's my goal.

Q.  You know why you won those two events back-to-back?  It's because you stopped off here in Reno for media day.

NOTAH BEGAY:  That's right.

Q.  Everything associated with it is good for you and Reno, coming up gold for you.

NOTAH BEGAY:  I don't mind.

Q.  What are your feelings, assuming you don't qualify Top 10, being a captain's selection?  Have you had conversations with anybody about that?

NOTAH BEGAY:  No, I haven't.  You know, I haven't really considered that simply because I wouldn't feel that I'd be on top of the list because you've got some more experienced players.  It depends what the overall makeup of the team is when qualification is over, and what Captain Venturi thinks he needs for his team.  If he needs a shot of young blood or someone that is going to come in and play with a lot of spirit and fire, I think that I could really inject some excitement into the whole thing.  But if he's looking for someone that's got a lot of experience in that international type of play, is I guess more of a veteran than I am, then obviously I wouldn't fit that mold.  But I'm just curious to see how it's all going to turn out.  I'm hoping that I won't need to rely on the captain's choice.

Q.  What are you more sick of answering, questions about your DUI or Tiger Woods?

NOTAH BEGAY:  No, neither (laughter).  From day one, I've always expressed the fact that I've never turned down a question or an interview having to do with my DUI.  It's simply because I don't want to back away from that situation.  I figured once you guys get tired of writing about it, you guys will stop asking about it (laughter).

Q.  And about Tiger, I guess the issue dogging you is, you won when Tiger hasn't been there.  How much would it mean to you to get a win when he's in the field?

NOTAH BEGAY:  Well, I mean, I think that would be probably one of the biggest achievements to date in my career, if I could win when Tiger was in the field.  I mean, he's the man to beat every week when he tees it up. If you have the chance to even get in contention with him, that means you're playing well.  To beat him is going to be, you know, even a better accomplishment.

Q.  Something that we've noticed is when you're in the field, you have no Top 10s; you either win or (inaudible).  How do you explain that?

NOTAH BEGAY:  I guess when I get near the lead, I just focus harder, focus better, try and capitalize on that opportunity.  It's just a sign of, you know, my inconsistencies in my game.  I think that I just need to be more patient as far as bringing it along.  Not being the most mechanically sound player, whatnot, I need a little extra time to gain that consistency.  These last few weeks have been great for me. 

Q.  Is that something you had noticed before?  I mean, obviously it doesn't jump off the page, but it's something that is kind of interesting. We just chalked it up to be a course-ist type of thing, either you liked the course or didn't like the course, but we weren't sure.

NOTAH BEGAY:  No, it's just  -- I don't look at stats.  I don't care about stats, honestly.  I just go out to win, and that's all I play for.  If I'm playing bad, if I'm 35th, I want to finish 34th.  If I'm 20th, I want to finish 19th.  That's how I've always approached it. But if there weren't stats, then there wouldn't be anything to write about (laughter).

Q.  When you were struggling, I mean, how much of it was due to your swing and how much of it was due to the incident?  What kind of brought you out of it?

NOTAH BEGAY:  Oh, it was just emotional fallout from having gone through a severely traumatic experience.  My emotions and my psyche were damaged.  It just took time for it to come about.  The turning point was when my brother started caddying for me.  He injected a whole new attitude into what I had the opportunity to do:  play golf for a living.  He was having a great time.  He kind of took me along for the ride.  When I started enjoying myself and having fun again, I started playing better.

Q.  When did that happen?  How did it come about that he started caddying for you?  What tournament was the first one?

NOTAH BEGAY:  The first one was the Memorial.  It was just after Colonial that I felt that I needed to work with somebody else.  I didn't want to just hire anybody.  I just thought my brother would be a nice substitute until something came along.

Q.  So what does he do for you?  What does he do as far as emotionally?  He's just having a great time out there and you're kind of seeing that?

NOTAH BEGAY:  Yeah, he just knows me so well.  We're having a good time.  It's like we're happy to be out there versus just approaching it as sort of a job or a profession.  We're really enjoying traveling together and playing some of the great courses in the world together, just getting to know each other better.

Q.  Did it loosen you up?  Did it relax you a little bit, help you focus?    

NOTAH BEGAY:  Started having fun.

Q.  How much has life changed in the two years since the anonymity of the Nike Tour to the stardom that Notah Begay enjoys today and are you comfortable with it?

NOTAH BEGAY:  It's changed dramatically, and I'm definitely comfortable with it.  It definitely takes some time to get used to.  But I guess if you looked at the other side of the coin, if nobody was asking about you or talking about you, you probably weren't doing much.

Q.  That's true.

NOTAH BEGAY:  It just means I'm playing well.  That's just part of the whole package these days as far as the popularity of golf.  Obviously, being on the same team as two other widely recognized young golfers, Tiger and Casey, you kind of pick up a few things from those guys.

Q.  Tips from how to deal with it?

NOTAH BEGAY:  Well, they don't necessarily say, "This is how you do this and that."  You just kind of learn how they organize their social, personal and professional lives, and deal with the press and the radio and everything, try and I guess emulate that, and curtail it to your own personal needs.

Q.  I understand in talking to an LPGA winner from last week, you've been helping her a little bit, too, on the telephone?

NOTAH BEGAY:  Yeah, Dorothy.  She's a sweetheart.  I met her last year  --.

Q.  -- At the golf writers' thing?

NOTAH BEGAY:  Yes.  I just gave her my number and told her if she needed any advice or whatnot, give me a call.  She calls about once a month. I mean, it wasn't any earth-shattering tip or anything.  I just told her how to approach her final round when she was in contention.

Q.  And what was the advice you gave her?

NOTAH BEGAY:  I said, "Make as many tap-in pars as you can."  I mean, it was simple.  I think that for some reason on Sunday, whether it's nerves or pressure or whatnot, nobody goes  -- the scores don't go that much lower unless the course is playing a little easy.  But come down the last few holes, people start dropping shots.  I told her, "You don't want a lot of three-footers for par because it's going to catch up with you at the end of the day.  Just make as many tap-in pars as you can and you're going to make a couple putts, I promise you."

Q.  What did you think when she called you?

NOTAH BEGAY:  She called me Sunday after she won and goes, "Your advice helped me so much.  I won my first tournament."  I was so happy for her because she's a nice young lady, and she seems to have a bright future.  I mean, if my advice helped her just a little bit, saved her a shot or two, well, then I'm happy.

Q.  Can you talk about that first win this year that you had, what that was like for you with your brother on the bag, just all the emotions that you were probably feeling at that time?

NOTAH BEGAY:  I mean, it was probably the most emotional thing I've ever done.  Those emotions didn't surface until after I tapped out on 18.  I didn't let it get to me or anything because I was in a very tight battle those last three holes.  It just meant that I had re-acquired that level of playing that I  had achieved the year before.  It told me that I was through this and I had overcome it; it was time to move on and continue playing well.  To have him there and be able to share that experience, because he was there for me when things weren't so good, and it was nice to have someone as close to me as he is there at my side when things came together at the right time.

Q.  And then you did it again the following week.  Did it catch you by surprise?  Obviously you expected to win, but a win back-to-back is difficult on the PGA TOUR, obviously.

NOTAH BEGAY:  No, that was my goal.  I guess I'm always trying to continually challenge myself.  My motto is:  You can't win two in a row unless you win one, and you can't win three in a row unless you win two.  I just keep going and try and keep firing.  I told him that I was going to make that putt walking up the 18th green.  He looked at me like I was crazy.  I just for some reason had a good feeling.

Q.  I was curious about your thoughts about Valhalla and what it would mean to you to contend in a major?  Secondly, given what Tiger has done at Pebble and St.  Andrews, I was curious what kind of an advantage do you think he has going in there, if any?

NOTAH BEGAY:  Tiger doesn't need any advantage.  He's going to play well regardless of the venue because he's got all the shots and he's got the focus and the patience.  I mean, he plays like a 35-year-old veteran, and he's only 24.  For me to get in contention, that's just the next step.  It's a logical progression.  You know, I think my wins to a certain extent maybe overshadow the fact that I'm a young player.  It's only my second year out here.  The wins are just a testament to the fact that I can and I'm not afraid to shoot low scores and get into a battle.  But my game is still in its very early stages and it's evolving on a weekly basis.  I'm progressing.  I mean, I know that there's, I guess, things that are written or whatnot as far as I haven't competed in a Major or whatnot.  I've only played four.  I've gotten better each one.

Q.  Have you sensed the different atmosphere in these events?

NOTAH BEGAY:  There's a little bit more atmosphere.  The courses are set up tougher.  That's obviously going to dictate higher scores.  But also you just got to get used to all the hoopla that goes around it.  I think the hardest thing at a major is focusing on your game when you've got to do interviews and family requests, autographs, all those things because there's just more interest in it.

Q.  Knowing that you are going to be coming back and defending the Michelob Championship, and it is sponsored by a beer company, what kind of approach are you going to take to that week in reference to the DUI?

NOTAH BEGAY:  I have no problems with it.  I still go out.  I still go to clubs.  I still go to bars.  Life's about choices.  You can't run away from choices.  Everyone's going to be faced with choices.  Some are easier than others.  Michelob is just a strong corporation, just like QWest is and all these others.  They're participating and trying to promote the game that provides me with a living and provides me with a lot of opportunity.  I'm going to support their causes.  And things that I guess, as I would any other company, as I would the Reno-Tahoe event or next year at FedEx, you know, it's my responsibility as the defending champ to come back and participate in the Skins Game and do all those things.  You know, I'm not going to have any pictures of me with a beer in my hand (laughter).  It's not that big a deal to me, to be honest.

Q.  How old were you when you lived on the reservation?  How did growing up there affect the person that you are now?

NOTAH BEGAY:  I was about like from age 7 to, you know, 14 or 15. You know, it didn't affect me then, but now I just realize how lucky I was to have the things happen to me that have happened.  I mean, I went to a very good high school, went to a very good college.  I'm fortunate to be a member of the PGA TOUR.  Coming from those  -- I mean, when I lived in that house, there was no hot water.  I remember if you wanted to take a bath, you had to boil water for about 15 minutes to get it heated up, then mix it with cold water.  I never felt sorry for myself, nor did any of my family members.  We never thought we had it bad because the fact of the matter was, we were better off than a lot of people that we knew.  Just so long as I had a roof over my head and a big mesa to hit golf ball, I was fine.

Q.  I went down and visited that place.  A lot of people that were down there really look up to you, sort of admire you.  Do you get a strong sense of what you've become to a lot of your fellow Native Americans?

NOTAH BEGAY:  Yeah, I'm starting to get a better grasp on that.  It makes me proud, it makes me want to work harder and hold myself to a higher standard.  I'm just going to try and approach it on a daily and weekly basis, and hopefully I can continue to provide, you know, a source of inspiration for all these people.

Q.  Statistically, do you ever look at the stats sheet and say, "Let's see, I'm 15th on the Money List, 34th in scoring average, and the rest of the things, most of them are in the hundreds"?  How do you explain that?

NOTAH BEGAY:  Lowest score wins, that's all (laughter).  I have no idea.  I mean, it's been pointed out before.  I'm not even  -- I mean, everything is in the hundreds.  That's weird, isn't it?

Q.  That's weird.

NOTAH BEGAY:  Can't figure it out (laughter).  I don't even know how they compile half the stats, to be honest.  I mean, the people that are marking them down are volunteers.  They might be wrong on some of them.  I mean, you don't know whether if I missed the fairway, if I hit the first cut, could still spin the ball and get it just as close as someone that was in the fairway.  I don't feel that I miss a lot of fairways.  I don't feel that I miss a lot of greens.  If I miss greens, I miss them in the right place, usually get up-and-down.  Like I said, I don't really over-analyze those things.  I just try and continue scoring low as often as possible.

Q.  Is your brother going to be on your bag if you play in Reno?

NOTAH BEGAY:  No, he's not.  He's got to go back to school.  I'm making him go back to school.

Q.  Do they have a major at Hawaii Hilo for being a caddie?

NOTAH BEGAY:  I don't know.  He'd be off to a good start (laughter).

Q.  Who are you going to use as caddie?  Is he with you this week?

NOTAH BEGAY:  My brother, no, he's getting ready to go back.  He leaves in a week.  My old caddie and I have started working together again. It's going fine.

Q.  He was with you at the British, too, right?

NOTAH BEGAY:  Right.

Q.  It's been, as you said, an up-and-down year.  Years from now what do you think you're going to remember out of this year?  Is this going to be a potential turning point year in your life?

NOTAH BEGAY:  I'll remember this year, two things so far would be my DUI and hitting out of the berm.  No, the wins, unless I win a major this year, I only got one more chance, those would probably be the two biggest things.  One was the most traumatic experience I've ever had.  The other one was the most fun I've ever had, making a 7 (laughter).

Q.  That was a good 7.

NOTAH BEGAY:  It was a fun 7.
:  Notah, thank you.

NOTAH BEGAY:  No problem.  Bye, guys.

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT