CANON GREATER HARTFORD OPEN
July 2, 2000
Notah Begay III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








NOTAH BEGAY III: In a nutshell, we've got the highest of the high and the lowest of the
low. Winning twice as a rookie, probably couldn't get any higher or excited about
anything, and getting arrested for a DUI, having to spend time in jail, lowest of the low.
And it's been an uphill battle. I'm not ever going to take anything for granted anymore. I
just -- I guess I'm just happy to be playing, and that's maybe reflective in the way I'm
playing. I'm playing with a lot of spirit, and that's when I play my best. 

Q. On television, you dedicated this tournament to a gentlemen. Can you speak a little
bit about that? 

NOTAH BEGAY III: Yeah, my personal advisor, my best friend's father, well, it's
actually his brother. It's a non-related -- I'm not related directly by blood but I used
to call him Uncle Ronny, and he was a man that was very kind and befriended him when I was
at Stanford. He kind of took me under his wing, and whenever I was in the Dallas/Fort
Worth area he was like a pseudo-parent. He died of a heart attack on Monday early this
week, and I didn't really want to say anything, but inside, I was really wanting to
dedicate my win, if I did win, to him. Because I think it would have been a nice tribute
and a nice way to remember him, Ron Marks.

Q. What was in your mind on the putt on 18? 

NOTAH BEGAY III: Making it. I mean, I can't finish worse than second. So, why not? 

Q. Did you see it like perfectly? I mean. Obviously it went in perfectly.

NOTAH BEGAY III: You know, the putt I was looking at, I was looking at my putt from the
Michelob Championship to get in the playoff, back in October. Same length, same break. I
just kept seeing that putt go in. And I've seen it on video, and I remember it, and I
wasn't as nervous this time. I could at least ground the putter today. And, just throw it
up there and let it release toward the hole. I had nothing to lose. And I wasn't going to
3-putt. It was perfect speed. It was a great way to end the week. 

Q. Had you thought about your dance there or what do we call that? 

NOTAH BEGAY III: I don't know, shake-and-bake? (Laughs). 

Q. What went through your mind when Calcavecchia made that eagle putt on 15? 

NOTAH BEGAY III: Nothing. You expect to be in a dogfight. I don't want anyone to hand
anything to me. No one's ever given me anything in my life; so, I'm not going to expect
him to lay down. The guy is a veteran. He's won a lot of tournaments; he's won a major.
Let's get it on, head-to-head, last three holes, see who's the better man today. That's
what I was thinking.

Q. Do you think this is the best golf you're playing in your career?

NOTAH BEGAY III: No question. I was in complete control today. Played a very
well-rounded, professional golf round today. I never truly appreciated professional golf
when I was growing up, watching on TV, and now I do, because I understand it more. 

Q. Did you have a number in mind this morning?

NOTAH BEGAY III: I wanted to get to 20. That was my number. I knew if I could get to
20, I'd have a shot. Am I psychic? See, today's lotto numbers are -- (Laughter.)

Q. How did you feel standing over that second shot on 18 from the bunker back there? 

NOTAH BEGAY III: I had about three or four of those this week and I hit them all from
20 feet. I just aimed right at the flag and let it rip. 

Q. 15, why did you elect to do that? 

NOTAH BEGAY III: That was probably a mistake. I'm still learning. I'm young. 

Q. Two and a half, three feet? 

NOTAH BEGAY III: It was three feet. I saw it go, and I think I just kind of favored the
break a little too much on both those putts. They both were -- I played them in the right
edge, and they just stayed right there both on 14 and 15. If I were to do it again, I
probably would have waited. But I was in the mindset of trying to keep constantly putting
the pressure on him, like I putted out on 10, I putted out on 11. Just because he -- now I
want him to think that he's got to make his putt just to maintain his lead. So it's
cat-and-mouse at that point. And it's just a strategical error on my part but I guess
you've got to expect to make those as a young, upcoming player.

Q. Was it 3-wood off the tee? 

NOTAH BEGAY III: I thought I hit a great shot and then he knocked it in there beside of
me. 

Q. Did you go out -- at some point, it had to develop, I think, into match play, did
you go out with match play --

NOTAH BEGAY III: Back nine. No, you can't go out with match play in mind. I mean you've
got Triplett behind me and Fryatt and then Furyk. Those guys are too good out here. If you
go out focused on one individual, you're going to get blind-sided by somebody else. I
mean, Kirk shot 61 yesterday, and the course was giving up very low scores all week. So I
just needed to focus on my game and how I was doing and how I was maintaining my
composure. I guess basically just become completely self-absorbed for as long was I could.
I mean, you get to a point where the other guys, they start running out of holes. I mean,
Kirk started running out of holes at about 15. So at that point when he missed his birdie
putt on 15, he's 3-down with three to play, and I wasn't going to make any mistakes. 

Q. (Inaudible.)

NOTAH BEGAY III: Just my patience. Maintaining good patience and good rhythm in my golf
swing. Just staying real even keel through the round. There's times where you just really
want to get going and start swinging harder and things like that, but it just contributes
to errant shots; and the last two weeks, I've been real good at it. 

Q. After that second shot on hole No. 6 to save par, it seemed like that really got you
cranking. 

NOTAH BEGAY III: It just kept the round going. When you get out and you can make three
birdies early, I think, what did I birdie 2 and 4, 5, 7, it kept the round going. And it
-- I mean, he made some great par putts today. I mean, he made an 18-footer on 4. And then
he made that par putt on 6. So, I guess I just needed to make that putt to keep the
pressure on him, and to let him know that I wasn't going anywhere. 

Q. Now, at the 18th hole he drove into the bunker and he got a bad break, I guess. What
was your mindset there? Had you thought about playing it safe? 

NOTAH BEGAY III: No. 

Q. What happened then on that drive? 

NOTAH BEGAY III: Well, I hit it too straight. 

Q. Too straight? 

NOTAH BEGAY III: Yeah. I'm left-to-right. I aimed at the edge of the bunker. I hit it
dead straight and the wind pushed it left; same thing happened to him.

Q. What's the club you used out of the bunker? 

NOTAH BEGAY III: 7-iron. About 20 feet, probably 23, 22 feet. 

Q. How many yards was it to there? 

NOTAH BEGAY III: It's a 179 to the flag. 

Q. To make six 25-footers. This must be your type of green. Is this how you like them?

NOTAH BEGAY III: I just like them fast, that's all. 

Q. Could you talk a little about your brother, the kind of support he's brought to you
the last few weeks?

NOTAH BEGAY III: Gosh, it's immeasurable. I guess his contribution to my overall
approach toward golf this year is -- means the world to me. You know, he knows the tough
times that I've gone through and how much disappointment I had in myself, and to have him
out on the bag doing what he does, he's just keeping me loose and to have him around to
drive me, basically. It just means a lot. And he has a lot to do with the way I'm playing.

Q. But he doesn't -- he let's you do all your own work, he's just kind of your
uplifter? 

NOTAH BEGAY III: Yeah, just sort of like he's the jockey. He just kind of keeps kicking
me in the butt when I start getting a little bit down, and if I get a little too mad or
serious, he tells a joke. 

Q. He said he was much calmer than last week.

NOTAH BEGAY III: Last week I had to just slap him around a little bit. He was getting
out of hand. (Laughs).

Q. You said that you were going to pay him the family rate last week. What's the family
rate this week?

NOTAH BEGAY III: I'm not allowed to disclose that information; break the family trade
secrets. 

Q. He's going back to school, isn't he? 

NOTAH BEGAY III: He's going back at the end of the summer.

Q. Are you sure? 

NOTAH BEGAY III: I don't know yet. We'll see. Yeah, I'm pretty sure. 

Q. He said when you went to putt at 18, you had a lot of confidence. He picked that up
from you, your sense that you were going to make that, you were going to be aggressive and
make that. 

NOTAH BEGAY III: I guess when you've been there, been throughout my life, I've got
nothing to lose. And I wasn't -- I mean I literally had nothing to lose. Calc missed his.
I'm in a playoff, at worst; so instead of getting tentative and protective of something, I
get really aggressive and focus even more, because at that opportunity, I can seize the
moment and really, I guess, provide a good finish. 

Q. If you could, your willingness to be more of than a golfer and a role model, can you
tell us about your contributions off the golf course?

NOTAH BEGAY III: Yeah. I think just to sum it up briefly, when my golf career is over,
I'm going to have won some, lost some, given away some, got some that I shouldn't have.
But I want to be remembered for the positive difference that I've made, in the lives of
young people, young minds, regardless of race, background or whoever. If I can encourage
or provide opportunity for some kid out there to either become a professional golfer or go
to Stanford or do anything, so that they would achieve more in their life than they
thought that they were capable of, that's what I want my legacy to be, not tournament
victories, not how much money I made. I don't want that. I guess I just want to make a
difference. 

Q. Is part of that going along with having fun and making yourself a little more
accessible to the younger generation?

NOTAH BEGAY III: Yeah, I'd like to. It's harder. The more popular you get, it's harder,
because I think sometimes the kids get a little bit pushy. And they are not as
appreciative as they should be, for the golfers or athletes that give their time to them
and autograph. I mean, I get a lot of kids that say "gimmee, gimmee" versus may
I please have your autograph. I mean, it's a simple -- anyone that says please to me, I
usually stop, take the time out and give them an autograph, a ball or whatever, slap their
hand or just some sort of. But I try to give as much time as I can, provided they are
polite and appreciative. 

Q. Have you ever talked to Tiger about something like that, all that he's gone through?

NOTAH BEGAY III: Oh, yeah. Tiger's been a great, I guess, asset to me, as my career
progresses, because, I mean, he's probably one of the top one or two most recognizable
people in the world, and I'm just hoping to be the most recognizable guy in Alburqueque.
(Laughter.) So, it's all relative, but at least he might be able to help me out there. 

Q. Are you going to go after Tiger next week, going for your third in a row?

NOTAH BEGAY III: I'm going to Wimbledon next week and watching some guys play on the
grass. 

Q. Going to Loch Lommond after that?

NOTAH BEGAY III: Yeah. 

Q. Does he have a chance to win? 

NOTAH BEGAY III: No. We've got to keep the Stanford streak going: He won the U.S. Open,
I've won these two, and he's got it win next week.

Q. Are you going to give him a call? 

NOTAH BEGAY III: He called me last week. Probably call me again and give me a hard
time.

Q. Can you persuade him to play this next year when you defend your title? 

NOTAH BEGAY III: Yeah, I've -- I have about one percent influence on him. Maybe two
now. We'll see. 

Q. A month ago, how would you have handled missing the short putt on 14, 3-putting and
watching the guy that you're trying to beat? Would you have handled it the same way that
you handled it today? 

NOTAH BEGAY III: No. Everything changed the weekend at the U.S. Open. I don't know what
it is. I just really became patient, and I gained a greater understanding of how to
maneuver my way through a round of golf. And it really helped me this last two weeks. I
just game really at ease with myself. But, yeah, I probably would have handled it
different, got flustered. But instead, I guess if you evaluate the numbers and percentages
and probabilities of how things work out the last few holes, I knew that if he made it,
we're still tied. And we got three holes left, and he's still got to hit the shot, and I
knew I was playing good. So in that regard, I was confident in my ability. 

Q. When you're over in England, what will your warm-up be into the British Open? 

NOTAH BEGAY III: Playing Loch Lommond. I'm going to go sit in a big refrigerator with
the wind blowing in my face. (Laughs).

Q. Do you have much experience playing in those kind of conditions? 

NOTAH BEGAY III: Well, New Mexico in the wintertime, spring, when the courses are still
frozen, play really hard. I mean, you're getting 30, 40 yards roll on the ball. There's no
trees, and it's windy. I think I'm going to have a real good time over there. I'm going to
enjoy that kind of golf. I played the Walker Cup in Wales in '95, and I really enjoyed
that time. 

Q. Are you going to make a little vacation out of it, play some other places or just
Loch Lommond? 

NOTAH BEGAY III: No. I'm going there to play the British Open. Get ready for the
British Open. I'm not much for being a tourist. 

Q. But before that? 

NOTAH BEGAY III: No. I'm golfed out. I can't play anymore. 

NOTAH BEGAY III: 2, I hit an L-wedge in there about probably 15 feet, and Calc was
right behind me, about 20 feet away, and basically gave me the read and I made it. 4, I
hit a 7-iron about 18 feet behind the hole, downhill and made that. 5, I hit a 4-iron in
there about 15 feet and made that. Made about a 15-footer for par on 6. Made a 15-footer
on 7 for birdie. 12, I hit 9-iron in there about 20 feet; made that. 18, I don't need to
say anything. 

Q. How long do you think the putt was on 18? 

NOTAH BEGAY III: About 22 feet. 

Q. You mentioned being a good example with kids, that you would do anything if they
were polite -- 

NOTAH BEGAY: Well, I wouldn't do anything. 

Q. Why did you say that? 

NOTAH BEGAY III: I just think -- I don't think it's through any fault of their own. But
they come out and they are shoving things in your face and saying, you know,
"gimmee" this and they expect you to do this. And I think that the kids that go
out of their way to be polite and ask you nicely and aren't real pushy, I have a tendency
to be more open to them. I think it's just a natural thing, because I try and be courteous
and polite to everyone that I interact with, and I think that's something that is good to
practice. 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT