MICHELOB CHAMPIONSHIP AT KINGSMILL
October 9, 1999
Notah Begay III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 NOTAH BEGAY: It's a great day. The last two days have been great. I've just been
playing very, very solidly, making good swings, making good decisions. Just a couple
unfortunate incidents which you don't like to dwell on, but hopefully I've gained some
experience from those and I will use that in the future.  
 
Q. Last couple days, if you could get to the point where if you could just avoid that
one disastrous hole, you could be two or three shots up right now. 
 
 NOTAH BEGAY: Yeah. But, you know, I just like to test myself and see if I can come from
behind (laughter). No, I would love to have a lead. There's only one word that can
summarize that, and that's "rookie," rookie mistake. You don't deserve to have a
lead making decisions like that. You're going to get unlucky. It's just the fact of the
game. But don't make it worse on yourself is what I try to emphasize. I made it worse for
myself. That's just the way it goes sometimes.  
 
Q. Did you try to hit that ball two feet away when the veteran tried to get it ten feet
away?
 
 NOTAH BEGAY: Exactly. I'm a very aggressive player. I've always been aggressive, which
is one of the primary reasons I can shoot such low scores at times. It bites you every now
and again. If you can live with the disappointment and the disgust that comes with it,
because it's easy to live with the 59s and 62s and 3s and 4s.  
 
Q. Does that hole kind of put you in a mind set to go for the two-footer? Guys get to
the tee and think eagle and birdie.
 
 NOTAH BEGAY: That hole puts you in the mind set you want to make an easy birdie.
There's no gimme's out here. On any given day, you got to still hit the shot and make the
correct decision. I don't make any excuses for myself. I just made a bad decision. That's
the way it is.  
 
Q. Saturday night when you're one or two or three off the lead, or in the lead, any
different than other nights?
 
 NOTAH BEGAY: I admit the night before Tahoe was a little tough. I had to really focus
on what I wanted to do, mind set I wanted to have going into Sunday. But having been
through that, I'm very comfortable right now with my game, my mind set and where I stand
in the tournament. It's anybody's tournament. I mean, there's guys 5 or 6-under that might
have a chance to win. They've got to have a great day. If I go out and play some solid
golf, I'm in a position to --  
 (Audio lost.) 
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT