MICHELOB CHAMPIONSHIP AT KINGSMILL
October 8, 1999
Notah Begay III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








NOTAH BEGAY: Definitely. Just happy to be in position. Obviously would like to have
finished a little stronger, but things happen and that was an awfully tough hole, and for
good reason.

Q. What happened on the tee shot?

NOTAH BEGAY: I just pulled it. I wasn't real clean today. And I guess subconsciously I
got over it, and I said if I'm going to miss it, I'm going to miss it left. And just got
an unlucky kick off the trees and kicked backwards, and was literally about eight inches
from the base of the tree. And I had no shot. So I tried to pitch it in the bunker, and
tried to make four. And I misjudged the firmness of the green and hit it about 18 feet
past the pin, just on the fringe. And I was actually lucky to make five.

Q. What did you hit off the tee there? 

NOTAH BEGAY: I hit a 6-iron.

Q. I imagine what you started your round and saw what was on the board you never
dreamed that if you shot even you would still be where you were when you went out?

NOTAH BEGAY: Yeah, I knew. I mean this is a tough course, it's playing real hard this
time of year, with the swirling conditions, I knew that if I just shot one or 2-under I'd
probably be right there, either in the lead, tied for the lead or one back. And that was
basically what I set out to do, and unfortunately I got it to three under and slipped
upcoming in, and ended up shooting one under. The course is playing hard, and it's going
to be interesting to see how everyone plays this weekend.

Q. A pretty good highlight early on, even with 7; what did you do there?

NOTAH BEGAY: I hit a drive right down the middle, popped it up just a little bit, had
about 252 to the flag, and just hit a smooth 3-wood and caught the right fringe about 18
feet and just rolled it in.

Q. What did you do on 3?

NOTAH BEGAY: 3 was driver, 4-iron and I pulled it left down the bottom of the hill,
pitched up in the first cut of the rough and then chipped it in. 

Q. How far was that?

NOTAH BEGAY: 30 feet.

Q. What did you do on 13 and 15?

NOTAH BEGAY: 13 I had a 6-iron there about 8 feet just left of the hole pin-high, and
knocked it in. 15, driver, 3-iron to the first cut of rough and then I hit a 3-wood about
six feet and made it.

Q. What did you do at 9 and 10?

NOTAH BEGAY: 9 I hit it in the first cut of rough, and I just misjudged how much the
ball was going to -- how much the rough was going to take off the distance of the flight.
And then on top of that it got hung up in the wind and really had no chance of getting
there.

Q. What did you hit?

NOTAH BEGAY: I hit a 6-iron. And unfortunately I missed about a 10-footer for par. And
then 10 was just -- the reason I made bogey there was I made a poor second shot. I had a
perfect lie in the bunker, only 175 yards to the front and just hit it heavy, and I made a
great bogey there because I hit it heavy out -- on my second shot and it goes into the
other bunker about 50 yards from the green, and I don't know how many guys who practice
that shot or even like it. And I hit a fairly decent shot and over the back in the first
cut and chipped up about four feet and made it. So I was very fortunate to come away with
just bogey there.

Q. How would you describe your putting, were your pleased with it?

NOTAH BEGAY: I putted well today, very comfortable on the greens. They're a little
chewed up this afternoon, but you've got to expect that. They're going to be chewed up
tomorrow. And those are just some of the things you have to overcome when you're in
contention.

Q. Do you spend equal amounts of time practicing from both sides?

NOTAH BEGAY: No, it goes on a feel basis. If I struggle one week or a day, one day I'll
go out and work on those putts and vice-versa. Mostly I really don't practice my putting
all that much, to be honest.

Q. This is your first trip here?

NOTAH BEGAY: Right.

Q. Have you heard comments about this course having ever played this tough?

NOTAH BEGAY: Oh, definitely. I mean I don't know how many scores -- there was only 23
scores under par yesterday, correct? And of those I don't know how many were in the
morning. You guys would probably know that better than I would. Guys were asking me if I
played the same course. Obviously -- because I had a very good -- I missed a 4-footer for
par to shoot 66, and in those conditions it was just phenomenal.

Q. Do you see the scores going really much lower?

NOTAH BEGAY: You mean like on a daily basis?

Q. Four under and about 6-under, or do you see it about the same, some people coming
and going?

NOTAH BEGAY: I would say right around 10-under you're going to have a good shot. But
you've got guys like Duvals right there, a lot of Faldos playing good, you've got some
experienced players right at the top of the leaderboard, on any given day they can just
shoot six or seven under. And it's going to put them right up near the top.

Q. What do you think of Mike Weir shooting a 63?

NOTAH BEGAY: That's great. Mike is a great player. He's having a great year. I think
he's really found his game this year. This is his second year and it seems he's just much
more comfortable out here and a lot more confident, especially -- he was having a great
year, even before he won. And that was just kind of -- it was something that was waiting
to happen with him to win. It was just tremendous for him to have that victory, not only
on a Tour, but in Canada, because he's their guy. He's the main man in Canada, he's their
best player right now. So it didn't surprise me.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT