MICHELOB CHAMPIONSHIP AT KINGSMILL
October 7, 1999
Notah Begay III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








NOTAH BEGAY: Just pretty surprised. Playing that well under those conditions. If you
look at the scoreboard, everyone is struggling. When you have players of this caliber not
able to shoot low scores and the greens are that receptive, you know that the condition
must be windy and swirling winds and gusty, and a little cold, too.

Q. What did you do that they couldn't do today?

NOTAH BEGAY: I just stayed away from bogeys. I only made one bogey, which was on the
18th hole. And looking back on that, that's a great day when the conditions are
unpredictable as they were today, and you can walk away with one bogey. That's a
successful round, in my opinion.

Q. How much more confidence are you playing with after winning?

NOTAH BEGAY: Quite a bit more. You start getting paired with other winners, and major
winners, and the last few weeks I played with guys that have won like Elkington and Faldo
and Strange. And that elevates your game, because you know you've earned the right to be
there. And it gives you a little bit more confidence standing over particular shots that
may have presented you with a little difficulty, if I hadn't have won, and if I was still
struggling to retain my card or something like that.

Q. How early in your round did you know it was going to be a really tough day?

NOTAH BEGAY: Well, probably on the first hole when it was a little cold, hadn't quite
woken up yet and I hit a great drive and then I had the 4-iron about 30 feet short of the
pin, and it was just -- it woke me up.

Q. You don't hit a lot of 4-irons --

NOTAH BEGAY: No. I turned to my caddy and told him, "It's going to be a hard day,
let's bare down and see if we can shoot right around par somewhere." I made a birdie
on the par-5. And made a great birdie on 16, hit it in there about 4 feet and just played
great.

Q. Do you remember what you hit in?

NOTAH BEGAY: I had an 8-iron. 

NOTAH BEGAY: 15 I hit a driver and then a 5-iron to about 40 feet and 2-putted. And 16
I hit a driver, 8-iron, four feet. And par-5, three, hit -- laid up, had about 75 yards
and needed about 25 feet past the flag and made it. And par-3, five, hit a 5-iron three
feet. . .

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT