WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2017
Tim Wilkinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tim Wilkinson get it done today.  That was a good day of golf in hot conditions.  
TIM WILKINSON: Played really well.  I had some really good up and downs, lot of good iron shots.  Kept it in the fairway for the most part.  Really made the most of my scoring chances.   
 Q.  Does the heat play a factor at all because I'm just watching you guys out there and you can see the perspiration, shirts and your pants and the whole bit.  
TIM WILKINSON: I was at home in Jacksonville last week.  It was pretty much like this.  I climatized (sic) last week.   
 Q.  That's important.  You come in this week at 165 in the FedExCup Points.  You know where you stand.  Obviously you work hard.  
 What is the mindset when you come into a week like this?   
TIM WILKINSON: Free-wheeling it.  I haven't played that well the last couple months, last three mornings really.  I did some good work last week, had a good honest look at things last week on the way back from Reno after I missed the cut and wondered if I was going in the right direction.  Just changed a few things.  Changed the driver shaft this week actually so my driver is a different driver than it was.   
 Q.  Every one of you guys, though, you're capable of catching lightning in a bottle for a week.  You got off to a great start.  Are you thinking in your mind maybe this is the week if I can do it three more days?  
TIM WILKINSON: I'm thinking three more of those, yes.   
 Q.  That was a great start.  
TIM WILKINSON: Thank you.  I played solidly out of the gate.  Made a really good up and down on 10.  Got a flyer over the green.  Got the ball down to four feet and good up and down I make.  Few birdies, lot of iron shots close.  Few tap-ins.  Six, 7 footers for birdies.   
Back-9 just snuck it by for eagle there.  Other than that it was pretty good.  Just a little bit disappointed I hit a bad iron shot into a hole.   
 Q.  All in all a great day.  How about three more of those?  
TIM WILKINSON: I'll take it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT