AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 8, 2014
Tim Wilkinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   2‑under par today in these conditions, a great round.   Some comments?  
TIM WILKINSON:   Yeah, very happy with it.   It was tough out there.   Some of the yardages we were playing were something I haven't done for probably 15, 16 years.   So I hit a 3‑wood on one hole, just chipped it along the ground from 177.   It was blowing pretty hard out there.   So, the toughest thing was just the putting, a lot of it.   Just crosswinds and gusting winds, it was, especially before the delay, it was pretty difficult.  
   
 Q.   Is it enjoyable when it's that tough?  
TIM WILKINSON:   You know, I tried to have fun, just creating different shots and things like that, so yeah, it was fun.   It was fine.   It got a little bit tedious at the end.   But it was fine.  
   
 Q.   Just steady playing there, eight straight pars, I think, on the back and then to get the birdie on the last hole was nice.   Take us through that hole?  
TIM WILKINSON:   Hit a good drive down there and hit like I had 134 yards and I just sort of wasn't a hundred percent sure on the wind.   And I just sort of three quartered a 9‑iron in there to about 10 feet, sort of left of the hole, and made the putt, yes.   It was a nice putt.   
I felt like the greens were slowing up toward the end.   I'm not sure if they put some water on during the delay or not, but they just slowed down a lit toward the end.   And I left a couple short for birdie coming in, probably the last the four previous holes about the same distance putts and I left them all short.   And I just got that one there, it fell in the side.  
   
 Q.   If it holds up like it is right now, talk about what it would mean to be in a final group on Sunday at Pebble Beach?  
TIM WILKINSON:   Yeah, it would be good.   It would be my third final group on Sunday, if it does hold up.   But Pebble Beach, yeah, it will be fun.   I've never played well out here before, and this is the first time I played well out here, so it would be fun.   It is a great place to play and I'm not sure, I only played here one other time.   The couple other years I didn't come out and to be honest I'm not sure, it's such a great place to come and play.  
   
 Q.   And lastly, a lot of injuries in your career.   Talk a little bit about that and what sort of a grind your career has been up to this point with all of those?  
TIM WILKINSON:   Yeah, so 2008 I played really well and then I kept my card then.   
2009, I hurt my thumb, I think it was in June.   And I had to have a ligament reattached in my right thumb.   
Then I was probably out, I think I was out for six months, but probably should have stayed out longer.   It's difficult being at home and you want to play golf.   So, that was difficult.   Staying at home.   I probably did comeback too early from the injury.  
   
 Q.   Healthy now, though?  
TIM WILKINSON:   I'm good now, yeah.   Just takes a while to get your confidence back, especially I lost my card that year and things didn't go the way I wanted them to.   So, it's difficult coming back.   Last year I played well and got myself back out here, so.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT