WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 21, 2016
Tim Wilkinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obviously you kind of knew where you were coming into the final round.  If you could take us through what it was like being in that environment.  
TIM WILKINSON: Yeah, I felt fine all day.  To be honest, I was pretty confident.  I played pretty solidly tee to green.  The last few holes after it started raining, I had a lot of opportunities.  I couldn't capitalize on them.   
 Q.  How aware were you on the course as far as projections or --  
TIM WILKINSON: I figured I needed to finish Top 15.  That was probably 2, 3-under today could have done it, I'm sure.  I played well.  I didn't quite make the putts.   
Front-9 I had a lot of good opportunities on the front-9 and pretty -- it's more scoreable 9 holes, too.  Then it started raining and I pushed it -- the drive squeezed out on me on 15.  I made a really good putt.  Couple of good opportunities coming in.  I just didn't hit a good iron shot into 16 and missed the fairway on 17 which made it tricky.   
Just missed the fairway on 18.  Really didn't -- last few holes, just didn't capitalize on the opportunities.   
 Q.  There's pressure to win a tournament.  For fans at home try to explain what it is, the pressure is like with 125.  
TIM WILKINSON: It's about the same.  You know, you always want to play well.  Doesn't matter if it's to win a tournament -- I just want to play well every time I go out.  It's the same pressure you put on yourself.   
Obviously a little bit more knowing sort of what's required and seeing the leaderboard.  I had a 3-putt early and 3-putted 10 as well.  You're aware the whole day.   
Couple times on the scoreboard, I stood on 9 I had about 10, 12-footer and I saw -- I looked up at the scoreboard.  I was one outside of the Top 125.  You can see it all day, which is good.  I like that being able to see it.  Would have liked to have played a little better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT