AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 22, 2016
Tim Wilkinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tim, I know you're a little disappointed with the bogey on last but still a solid week for you.  
TIM WILKINSON: I played well.  Played well all day today.  I drove the ball well.  You couldn't tell on the last hole, but I drove the ball really well today.  Gave me a lot of opportunities to hit iron shots relatively close.  It was a good day.   
 Q.  That week in Charlotte, very good week this week.  Did you feel this coming?  Did something change?  
TIM WILKINSON: I been playing reasonably well all year, just one part of my game wasn't clicking when something else was and starting last season I was hitting the ball well and not making anything and then earlier this year I wasn't really hitting it great but putting well.   
Last couple of weeks I've done both pretty well.  Normally I'm really good around the greens.  That never leaves me.  So, I'm able to make a lot of pars even when things aren't going well.   
 Q.  Not too hot out there, overcast skies.  
TIM WILKINSON: Yeah.  The last four holes it got warm out there.  Pretty comfortable there.   
 Q.  How did you feel like those last four played for you, obviously with 18?  
TIM WILKINSON: I hit a good drive on 15 and little downslope.  I had a good shot in there and just released to the back of the green, just to the back fringe.  I had to be careful with the putt down the hill really fast down there.   
And then 16, didn't quite catch my drive and I hit a 3-wood just short of the green and normally I'm really good from there.  That was disappointing, the up and down.  I pride myself on getting the up and downs.  Little disappointing.   
17, hit a nice shot and really good putt.  Thought it was going to go in the side.  Didn't.  18, trying to hit a low fade and just got over it, didn't hit a good shot.   
 Q.  Do you enjoy playing this course?  Do you like this track?  
TIM WILKINSON: I've had reasonable results here, couple of Top-20s before.  I fell like it sets up well for me.  It's not an ugly, long, demanding course so gives me a lot of short irons and mid irons.   
 Q.  How about the Olympics?  This would help your position out dramatically.  Does it become real when you start having good weeks like?  
TIM WILKINSON: Not really thinking about it, to be honest.  Sorry.  It would be great opportunity but, as I said in Charlotte, first things come first.  I've got a family to look after.  If I'm on the borderline of keeping my card or not then it's a difficult decision to make.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT