CIMB CLASSIC
October 30, 2014
Tim Wilkinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How would you assess your round out there? 
TIM WILKINSON:   Quite well.   My attitude was good, because I started off nicely, was 1‑under after three and then I had double on 15 and a couple birdies after that, so my attitude was good all day.   I've been here a few times before. 
Some of the other guys were like struggling with the heat a little bit, but I played well.   I drove it okay and hit a lot of nice short irons, so that made a big difference.

Q.   Just talk us through that double.   What happened out there?
TIM WILKINSON:   Just pulled it just right of the fairway off the tee, and I was doing quite a bit of sideswiping.   I don't know, I think I tried to get too much out of it.   I just hit it on the ground about 20 feet and then hit my next one over the green, and then hit a decent chip.   Just misjudged the lie a little bit and missed about a, I don't know, about eight‑footer for par‑‑ I mean for bogey. 

Q.   You mentioned the heat.   It seems that the guys who started really early, seems their scores are holding up.   Do you think the heat becomes a factor as it goes on this afternoon?
TIM WILKINSON:   Probably.   I like to think I'm in pretty good shape, so I didn't really feel it at all actually, to be honest out there.   I was just drinking a lot of water and mixing up electrolyte drinks and water. 
I've been here a lot, so I'm sort of used to‑‑ and I live in Jacksonville, which in the summer is very hot, so yeah. 

Q.   You're one of the few guys now I think has gone through and done all the first four events. 
TIM WILKINSON:   Yeah.   It hasn't been bad.   I mean I'm from New Zealand, so we fly a long way. 
I don't do it so much anymore, but the travel doesn't really affect me.   I got in a pretty good routine early. 

Q.   Not the result you wanted in the last then, I guess?
TIM WILKINSON:   No.   My attitude just wasn't very good.   I was just struggling a little bit in my game, and that's not usually me on the course.   Probably just trying a little too hard to get off to a good start to the season, and there's 42 events, so it's not the end of the world.   I realized that driving home. 
So it's a good opportunity this week.   I'm still entered next week, but I don't think I'm going to play.   I'll have to decide tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT