FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 7, 2014
Tim Wilkinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tim with will a pair of 68s in the first two rounds.   Talk about how the course has played.  
    TIM WILKINSON:   Different from round to round.   Really pretty well this morning, playing quite long this morning.   The greens are still bouncing so just the fairways soft, really.   It's in great shape considering how much rain we had.  
   
 Q.   What's been working for you over past few days?  
    TIM WILKINSON:   I don't know.   Just keeping the ball in play, getting on the green.   Just keeping it in play, I guess.   I played well here in the past.  
   
 Q.   Is this climate similar to what you grew up with in New Zealand?  
    TIM WILKINSON:   Nowhere near as humid.   The rain, yes, but nowhere near as humid.   Windy, yes, but we haven't had much wind this week.  
    When I've been playing we haven't had much wind.   It's a lot warmer.   I live in Jacksonville now.   It's pretty warm there.  
   
 Q.   How playing over a number of days, two rounds, how does that affect the average player out here would you say?   What are you more concerned with?  
    TIM WILKINSON:   Staying loose, I guess.   Lot of sitting around and waiting.   Just staying -- try to have a few laughs, you know, stay relaxed about it.   
    That's the biggest thing mental thing. It's the same for everyone.   I think just as long as you stay loose and lot of getting, up, sitting down, especially yesterday.   So I think that's probably the most important thing.  
   
 Q.   What time did your alarm go off this morning?   
    TIM WILKINSON:   4:30 last two mornings.  
   
 Q.   How tough is this, compare this to other delays.   Is this pretty tough?  
    TIM WILKINSON:   It's pretty tough.   I've had worse where I think I played one round in about almost two days on the Web.com Tour last year.   You get used to it.   It's part of the job.  
   
 Q.   Is this kind of, you know, they talk about golfers having to be patient.   Is this one of those things where you really have to --  
    TIM WILKINSON:   Yeah you do.   You have to be patient and stay -- switch your mind off golf.   Everyone has a bit of the laugh in locker room and tell stories.   You learn a lot more about the players.   Sometimes it's quite interesting.  
   
 Q.   For you, though, as you look up on the leaderboard and I know Ben posted that 12 and back to back 68s, usually good on this course, how do you attack them, what we hope is 36 holes left to play?  
    TIM WILKINSON:   Yeah.   I mean it's going to give me some chances at birdies and hopefully can make as many as he obviously has.   I mean just play your own game and take advantage of the holes that are out there to birdie and tough holes out there.   
    I find that there's some tough holes, anyway, and post a great score on them.   Play my own game and make the most of every opportunity.   
    Hopefully have a good chance of catching up.   
   
 Q.   As well as he's played, is it one of those circumstances where Billy Horschel told us yesterday, sooner or later you feel like he's going to come back to the pack because you understand you just don't shoot 12-under over two rounds out here.  
    TIM WILKINSON:   I guess it's hard leading by that many sometimes.   Probably rather have that after 54 holes than 72 -- I'm sorry, 36.   Yeah.   Should be interesting the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like that this second wave of guys, that there's going to be -- what kind of scores do you expect?  
    TIM WILKINSON:   I have no idea because the course is playing a lot longer.   There's not much run out there.   Normally it's firm and fast and lot of short irons into a lot more holes.   The greens are still as -- softer but it's not like the ball is just pling in the green.   They're still bouncing a little bit.   
    I really don't know.   Just depends if the wind gets up.   If the wind gets up it might be tricky with the wet and windy conditions.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT