ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 3, 2017
Sue Semrau
Leticia Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Miami - 56, Florida State - 54
SUE SEMRAU: The way the pace was going, we changed that in the second half, and they still hit some big shots.  I still didn't think our defense was what it needed to be.
Q. Coach, obviously you're going to the NCAA Tournament, probably going to get a couple of home games.  What's going to be your regimen over the next couple of week as you prepare for that?
SUE SEMRAU: It's a little bit different for us this year than it's been in years past.  We usually are going into spring break right now and now we're going to go back to class next week.  So we'll practice next week, give them a couple days off now, practice next week and then give them some time right before spring break, then we'll get back and get ready for another opponent.
Q. It was a strange game.  The second half you guys traded baskets or points for the entire third quarter and no one could get any run going, then you finally made a run in the fourth quarter.  What was the flow on the court that you couldn't get over the hump?
LETICIA ROMERO: Well, like Coach said, I don't see this team having the same confidence that we had earlier in the season.
I think it's about defense.  I mean, I don't think we felt comfortable on the offensive end of the floor, and I think it came from our defense and not being able to be as solid as we think -- I mean, I think we are as a team.  It's going to come down to we have one more opportunity, one more shot at another tournament, and we have to regroup and work on that.
Q. Katie said in the press conference last night that there were no secrets.  Both teams knew everything about the other team.  How difficult is it to beat a good team three times?
SUE SEMRAU: I think it's more difficult to not beat -- to be the team that loses that game.  I think it's more difficult.  I think you look at -- I don't think that has anything to do with it.  I think it comes down to who comes into play each game, and fortunately we had a couple of really good games against Miami in the regular season.  We didn't have a good game against them tonight, and that's on us.  It's not about whether we knew enough or they knew enough.  It's on the way we played.
Q. Your conference is a bear; there are seven ranked teams and obviously some very, very good ones.  How tough is it to have to play through that schedule to prepare you for this tournament, and obviously for the next tournament having seen every style and almost every level of talent?
SUE SEMRAU: Well, it's a great conference.  You look at top to bottom this year, it has been a bear, and then to step out of conference like we did and play Texas, who was leading their league, I think was really, really tough for us.  It wasn't like, okay, we've got a bye week and we can just get some rest and that type of thing.  But I think that's what the top teams in the conference have to do.  You have to step out.  You have to do what the fans need, what's good for us, and I think it will bode well for us coming down the stretch.
We'll regroup, like Leti said, and we'll be ready.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT