ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 4, 2016
Sue Semrau
Leticia Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Miami - 74, Florida State - 56   
SUE SEMRAU: Upsets happen, and certainly the old adage is that it's tough to beat somebody three times in a season, and we knew it was going to be tough, and I didn't think we played tough enough to win.  Credit Miami; I thought they did a tremendous job.  They made it tough to guard in their transition, and I just wish them all the best moving forward.   
 Q.  You defeated them twice earlier; can you put specifically where the wheels came off today?  
SUE SEMRAU: Yeah, I think it was in our transition D.  I thought that we didn't score as well as we wanted to and couldn't get our defense set, and even when we did, I thought that they just drove it down our throats.  We just didn't do a good job of communicating.  That's something that sometimes your team assumes that, well, we've done this before, we can do it again without a lot of communication.  Certainly you never want that to be the case, but that's what it looked like today.   
 Q.  Katie was talking before about how intense this rivalry has become and also the quality of the rivalry.  How good is it for your program that Miami is right there and that you push each other all the time?  
SUE SEMRAU: Yeah, I think it's a tremendous rivalry.  I think with Florida schools, there's a lot of pride for your own individual school, but you love that all the schools are just so competitive.  You know, I think we both love playing.  It's always a tough game but one we love playing.   
 Q.  Can you address Miami's defense on you guys, you and Brittany both had six turnovers today.  
LETICIA ROMERO: Well, we know they are aggressive.  They are aggressive every single game that we play against them, and we knew it.  We work in practice, every practice, to handle that, and I think especially in the second half we didn't do a good job of taking care of the ball, and I don't know, credit to the defense because it was really good.  And I feel like we have to fix all the mistakes that we did today in order to keep getting better and playing better in the NCAA Tournament.   
 Q.  Sue, Miami played Pitt yesterday; do you think that gave them an advantage to sort of get their sea legs in this tournament?  
SUE SEMRAU: I always think that that is an advantage, but certainly not one that you want going into Sunday.  I think it's always tough to -- when you haven't played.  We got a half-hour practice on the court yesterday from 7:30 to 8:00 a.m., but again, no excuses.  Certainly it's still a basketball game, it's still the same two teams playing.   
 Q.  Going into the NCAA Tournament, everybody knew both teams were going to get in.  Do you think it's better going into the tournament with a little bit of a chip on your shoulder about the ACC?  
LETICIA ROMERO: I feel like it really doesn't matter.  I feel like the most important thing for us right now is to come together.  It was a really tough loss, and just come together, fix whatever we have to fix, and be excited about what's coming.  You know, the NCAA Tournament is just one game at a time.  Anybody can win, and we just have to go to fight.  That's all we have to do.   
 Q.  Sue, what's your regimen going to be now as you prepare for the NCAA Tournament?  
SUE SEMRAU: Well, it's always interesting how long we have to wait to play again.  We are on spring break now, so there will be some time that we can get healed and our bodies can get rested.  But certainly we've still got a lot of work to do, and getting ready for selection Monday.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT