ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
March 5, 2013
Sue Semrau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  THE MODERATOR:   Next we have Coach Semrau of Florida State.   Coach, welcome to the call.   If you could, please talk a little bit about your team heading into the tournament.   
COACH SEMRAU:   Our style is one where we tend to share the basketball really well.   I think that's noted with our statistics of having five kids in double figures.   I think that's something that we really strive for.   We are excited about the opportunity to step in with a lot of different weapons.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach.   
   
 Q.   Could you go ahead and talk about how balanced your scoring has been this season.   You have five players in double figures, probably the only team in Division I that has that going on right now.   How important has your guard play in that been to you?   
COACH SEMRAU:   I think the reason for that is we get an opportunity, we distribute really well with the opportunity to play two different point guards.   Those two are players that certainly could score in double figures.   But they're very selfless and have put other players in a position to do that.   
   
 Q.   Obviously you've had a season where you have experienced highs and lows, maybe winning games that were not in sight, then losing some that were definitely in sight.   Can you talk about how you focus heading into the tournament to capitalize and take advantage of all those learning experiences as far as this season.   
COACH SEMRAU:   Yeah, that's a great point.   I don't know exactly why that is.   But at the same time I know that we're capable of a lot.   That's a mystery to me and to my staff.   Maybe it plays in a little bit to human nature.   
Certainly having five seniors going into the ACC tournament, this being their last chance at it, I think the excitement level is high.   
   
 Q.   Obviously having that depth and seniority on the team, how important is that going into a tournament?   From a coaching view, a comfort level to a certain extent.   Accomplishment levels aside, understanding they know what this tournament is about, what do you do with an experienced squad going into a first‑round game?  
COACH SEMRAU:   I think the season is extremely long.   Sometimes I think it's a little bit too long in college basketball because it's not just the physicality, not just the wear and tear on your body, but emotionally there's a lot of things, a lot of different nerve stimulation to handle.   It can be extremely exhausting emotionally.   
So for us, we're taking some time away.   I think it's important that they come back fresh with a little bit of renewed emotional energy going into the tournament.   
   
 Q.   A quick question for you.   The conference is strong from top to bottom.   From an outsider's perspective, would it be better for the conference, as far as its image goes, to get as many teams as possible in the NCAA tournament or get one team to the Final Four?  
COACH SEMRAU:   I think it's always our goal as a conference to see as many teams in the NCAA tournament as we can.   Certainly I think the Final Four is everybody's goal, but just being a part of the NCAA tournament is big.   
We as a conference didn't do our job last year.   We weren't a part of that.   I firmly think that was an emphasis for us as coaches going forward.   Certainly I think we're at least five, maybe six, seven deep going into the NCAA tournament.   
It's been an up‑and‑down year for everybody.   You look at the men's side, a different No.1 every week.   Certainly there's an elite core in women's basketball, but after that I think it's anybody's game.   
   
 Q.   Talk a little bit about the potential matchup you have with Miami or with Virginia Tech and what problems or what issues you see in your game plan or what you will game plan for both those teams.   
COACH SEMRAU:   It's really more just about I think at this time of year everybody playing their own game.   That's really what we'll focus on.   Then it doesn't really matter the opponent.   
We've played 18 conference games.   We're pretty familiar with the conference games.   All of us are familiar with each other.   We'll just hopefully have an opportunity to be who we are.   
   
 Q.   Leonor Rodriguez kind of exploded onto the scene in the ACC this year with her play.   What has she meant to your team?   
COACH SEMRAU:   She's certainly meant a lot to our team.   She's a catalyst.   She's somebody that connects the dots for us.   But certainly she's not the only one.   That's what's nice.   
I can't really talk about Lea without talking about Morgan, Natasha Howard, Chelsea Davis.   It goes on and on.   It's really difficult to pinpoint any player on our team this year as being the outstanding player.   
THE MODERATOR:   Coach, thank you for your time this morning.   We will see you in Greensboro.   
COACH SEMRAU:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT