ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 6, 2020
Sue Semrau
Kourtney Weber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Florida - 76, Wake Forest - 47   
THE MODERATOR: Welcome Florida State. We have Sue Semrau and our student-athlete is Courtney Webber. Coach?   
SUE SEMRAU: I ask my players to sit in the first three rows of class, so I'm disappointed with the media here. There we go! You're the superstar! Just proud of the way our team came out. I thought the tempo really favored us. I thought our guards did a good job of pushing tempo. Wake Forest made a heck of a run and they're a really good basketball team.   
Raca is one of the best in the conferences, obviously and she was tough to guard. We had to go deep to find a way to stop her. But really proud of 'em, and excited to be moving on.   
 Q.  Since I'm the superstar I figured I might as well start with the first question.  
SUE SEMRAU: That's right.   
 Q.  What kind of impact was the six early turnovers from Wake Forest and then the hot shotting, 8 for 10 from behind the arc in the first half, what contributed to those two things having such a big impact?  
SUE SEMRAU: First off, we lost our last game at home and we've been chomping at the bit. They've been great at practice ready to come out and see what we can do here in the tournament so our defense was much better than it has been.   
So, you know, we caused the travels, we did our work early and then to be able to go to the other end and hit big shots like that, that always gives you a lot of momentum, makes you play harder on defense, too, when you see that ball go through the net.   
 Q.  Coach, you got a great effort on the boards today against them and Kourtney came off the bench and had a big game. Is that what you expected against a tired Wake Forest team?  
SUE SEMRAU: Not expected. Wake Forest has done some really incredible things this year. They're really hard to guard. We knew we had to bring it. Everybody I thought on my team came in and contributed. We talk about rebounding all the time but Kourtney was phenomenal. Like I told Kelley Deyo, she plays like that all the time. They call her, you know, they say we want three on three Kourtney Weber, that was the summer thing we did and she was a beast. I think she is just getting comfortable in being an all-time contributor.   
 Q.  Kourtney, talk about your effort coming in and ending up with 15 points, tell us all about it?  
KOURTNEY WEBER: Honestly, I wanted to go out there and do what we team needed me to do. Today was in more scoring and driving and tomorrow it could be rebounding. I want to go out and play comfortable and not force anything.   
SUE SEMRAU: She had four assists and no turnovers and she said that's the proudest stat she has.   
Thank you guys so much. Appreciate you being here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT