ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 2, 2018
Sue Semrau
Imani Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Florida State 73, Miami 69   
SUE SEMRAU: It was a typical Florida State-Miami game.  You knew that it was going to be a fight, and it was, and anything happens tournament time and we obviously know that.  This is the third consecutive year that we've drawn Miami in this game, and I'm just really proud of the way that we continued to fight.  I think it wasn't pretty, but it was a fight by both teams.   
 Q.  Did you bring that up in pregame, that you guys have drawn them a lot, they got you last year, and there was some revenge to be enacted?  
SUE SEMRAU: Well, we did talk about it today at shoot around.  I think we didn't want to have an elephant in the room.  We wanted to be able to talk through it, and our seniors did a great job of communicating their thoughts going in.   
 Q.  How hard is it for both of you to beat a team three times?  We hear that a lot, that it's really challenging.  Is it is that true or just a cliché?  
SUE SEMRAU: Well, you can look at the record and see.  I mean, it's very, very difficult.  I think it's also hard to come into this tournament and not having played in a week, and you know, that's another thing we started out.   
They had an 8-0 run to start, and we really weren't in any kind of rhythm.  I thought they did a great job of applying some pressure early, but it's really tough.  It's very tough to beat a team three times.   
 Q.  Especially if it's a rival?  
IMANI WRIGHT: Yeah, like what coach Sue said, trying to get into a rhythm against a team you've played three times, you know each other so well and you've prepared so well for each other.  But it was a great game.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the positives that you'll take away from this game moving forward?  
SUE SEMRAU: Going to the semifinal game?  I mean, that's really -- that's a huge monkey off of our back at this point.  Just there's a lot of mental distractions that can enter your head, and I think, you know, towards the end of the game, you could see that, and I thought their mental toughness towards the etched the game was huge.   
 Q.  As the game sort of game down to the end and Miami started to push back and push back and almost had a chance to take the lead at the end, what was going through your mind and how did you stay calm as they made the run at the end to try to take the lead back?  
IMANI WRIGHT: Definitely stop turning the ball over.  You know, just staying true to what we do and relaxing and knowing and having confidence in ourselves to just keep pushing forward and to finish the game.   
SUE SEMRAU: Thanks for staying so late.   
MIKE FINN: Thanks, Coach.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT