U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2012
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. FERRER/L. Hewitt
  7‑6, 4‑6, 6‑3, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Is this tournament an opportunity for people to know the name David Ferrer?   Seems like you're not the best‑known player of your own country and there the three and number four is David Ferrer.   Is this an opportunity to get to a different level?  
DAVID FERRER:   No, I don't care.   I'm trying to do my job.   I will try to win all the matches as possible and nothing else, no?   
I am in fourth round, and only happy for that.   
   
 Q.   What was the difference for you in today's match?  
DAVID FERRER:   Maybe the first set was the key, no?   When I won the first set, almost one hour and a half, was very tough.   
In the second, he won me the second set, but I think he was more tired than me, no?   
So in the third and in the fourth I played with more power.   I changed my forehand to forehand him, and the fourth he was really tired, no?   I think he was a little bit tired.  
   
 Q.   He had five set points in the tiebreaker.   You played great points on all of them.   Is that something you enjoy?  
DAVID FERRER:   Yes, but I think I got lucky in some moments, no?   When was 6‑5 for him, he had one easy ball, a forehand, and he did easy mistake, no?   I take my time, and, you know, the first set was very, very close.   
I was winning 4‑2 or 3‑1.   I had a lot of break points and I didn't make it.   You know, it was really close.  
I think the key was in the first set.  
   
 Q.   I was curious if like tomorrow will you take a little time out to watch Mardy Fish against Federer for scouting purposes or being a tennis fan?  
DAVID FERRER:   Yes, of course I will see the match Federer with Mardy Fish, another one.   I like to see tennis.   This is my job.  
But also I want to relax and enjoy this today and tomorrow to rest.   Nothing else, no?   I will stay with my team.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT