WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2012
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/D. Ferrer
  6‑7, 7‑6, 6‑4, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   After the second set tiebreaker it seemed to really change the complexion of the match and he seemed to grow stronger while your level came down.   Do you feel that's true?  
DAVID FERRER:   Well, maybe.   I think the key was in the second set, no, when I have 5‑4 or I had one set point in the tiebreak.   
But Andy, in important moments he play really good.   He played more aggressive than me, and he was better, no?   If I win two sets up, anyway is difficult to beat Andy because they are playing very good.   
   
 Q.   You come back here again in a few weeks for the Olympics.   Do you come back now with more confidence?  
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I am.   Of course I am with confidence in my game, no?   I never did quarterfinal in Wimbledon.   I played a really good tennis these two weeks, and I'm very happy for that.   
Now I want to rest.   I want to relax at home because I am very tired.   I hope to come back here playing the same like this week.   
   
 Q.   Where are you going to go now?   How will you practice for grass?   
DAVID FERRER:   Well, now I have one tournament next week in clay court, so I will play to Bastad next week.   After that, I will practice in Valencia in artificial grass court, and we will come here one week before of Olympic Games.  
   
 Q.   Can you speak just a few words about the semifinal between Djokovic and Federer.   It's the first time they play on grass.   Who do you think is better on this surface?  
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   This is really close, no?   I think Roger and Novak, they unbelievable players.   I don't know who is the favorite for to win tomorrow the semifinal.   
It's going to be very close match.   
   
 Q.   What were you thinking when you came off very late in the match when the rain came?   Were you in a positive mood?  
DAVID FERRER:   Yes, of course I am.   I am trying to be positive all the time, no?   I went to the locker room.   I take a shower.   I talk with my team.   Nothing else.   
   
 Q.   Was it strange to be in the same training room with Andy?  
DAVID FERRER:   No.   Is not strange, no.   We know sometimes it's the same, no?   In Wimbledon it was raining, stopping match.   We know that.  
   
 Q.   From what we've seen, do you think Andy Murray is playing at a high enough level to win Wimbledon, or do you think he has to step up in the semifinal?  
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   You have to ask to him.   I don't know.   
Of course, Andy Murray, he has chance to win Wimbledon.   He's unbelievable player.   He deserve to win one Grand Slam.   
   
 Q.   Will you be staying in the village with the Spanish team for the Olympics or will you stay in Wimbledon?  
DAVID FERRER:   No, I will stay in the village with the team.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT