AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2012
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/D. Ferrer
  6‑4, 7‑6, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   There was a time in the second set when you looked right on top.   Did you feel that and what happened?
DAVID FERRER:   I feel good.   I did a good game.   I had my chance in the second set, in the tiebreak maybe with 5‑4.   But when I lost the second set, and the third set he plays better than me, I was a little bit tired. 
But I am happy with my game. 

Q.   Did you notice he looked a bit like he was ailing at times in the second set, hanging over his racquet, holding his leg?   Did you notice that at all?
DAVID FERRER:   No, I don't know.   I don't know.   You have to ask to him, not me.   But, no.   He run perfect all the match.   Nothing special. 

Q.   It was so close.   Do you feel it could have gone either way?
DAVID FERRER:   I feel good.   I did a good both tournaments, last week in Auckland and here in Australian Open.   I won eight matches. 
Now I am little bit disappointed, no?   Is normal.   After, when past one hour, two hours, I know I did a good tournament and feel good, good game, no?   Now I will go to home.   I will go to relax some days.   Nothing special, no?   Come back to play in some tournaments again and will try to fight again. 

Q.   People this week have been talking about a gap between the top four players and then the next group, then a third group under that.   Do you think there were times tonight that you showed the gap was very tiny?
DAVID FERRER:   No, I am agree with you.   I think the top four players, they are better than the other ones, no?   They are very better level than other ones.

Q.   Do you think that gap can be closed?
DAVID FERRER:   No, I don't think so.   Because the last year, the top four players plays all the finals in the Grand Slams.   They were there in the final rounds.   And this year they are doing again, so... 
I don't agree.   I think the top four, it's another level. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT