AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2012
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. FERRER/J. Chela
  7‑5, 6‑2, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How do you see the performance other than the first four games? 
DAVID FERRER:   I don't start really good.   I start a little bit nervous.   He was play very, very good the first games.   And after, when I won the first set, it was more easy, no?   I play better with my shots.   I play with more confidence.   I did a good game, no? 
Finally the second and the third set, I play good. 

Q.   You come here having won in Auckland again, as last year.   Where do you see your game?
DAVID FERRER:   It's good.   I won Auckland.   I play really good.   I am with very confidence.   The first two matches here I don't play really good.   I don't need my best game. 
But today in third round, the last two sets, I feel good.   I feel good with my game.

Q.   Does last year making the semifinal here change your aim for this tournament?
DAVID FERRER:   It's difficult, no?   I want to focus with the next match against Richard Gasquet.   Is going to be very tough and difficult match.   Last year I made the semifinal.   But every year is different.   Now is different.   I will play with different players and nothing else, no? 
Always I go step to step. 

Q.   Do you always feel that opponents don't enjoy playing against you, they don't like playing against you?
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   I don't know.   Me, I try to do my best in every match. 

Q.   Richard is one of those players who doesn't like to play against you.   Do you feel that on the court? 
DAVID FERRER:   No, no, I don't think so.   Also me, I don't like play with Richard because Richard is a very great player.   He's a top player.   He has a very good talent.   He plays very good in the net.   He has a very good first serve. 
So I need to play my best tennis for to win Richard. 

Q.   You're No.5 in the world.   Is it disappointing or frustrating that you don't get to play on the two big courts?
DAVID FERRER:   No, it's okay.   I don't have any problem for to play in the Court No. 2, center court, or Hisense.   It's not a problem for me.

Q.   How do you find the atmosphere on the other courts?
DAVID FERRER:   The atmosphere is very good here in Australia.   All the Grand Slams, the atmosphere is different to other tournaments.   All the courts, it's full.   This is very, very nice for us. 

Q.   You played quarter and semi on Rod Laver last year.   Do you know how many other matches you've played there?
DAVID FERRER:   I don't remember in this moment.   With Murray, with Nadal, maybe one time with Nalbandian.   I am not sure.   I am not sure.   But is very nice court.   It's unbelievable. 

Q.   A long time coming here as a top player and only a few games up there.   Is it difficult to play on when you don't play very often?
DAVID FERRER:   No, is not difficult.   All the courts are the same.   Is not difficult for me. 
Of course, I like to play in big stadiums, in center courts.   If I don't play in a center courts, I have to play to another court, it's not a problem, no?   For me, it's tennis.   Me only, I am focused with the next opponent. 

Q.   You will play your seventh fourth round in a Grand Slam in a row.   You're a very consistent player.   Are those stats you look at?
DAVID FERRER:   It's good.   I am very happy with my career, of course, no?   I am playing very consistent the last seven years.   This is good.   I will try to improve every year my career.   And my goal is to stay in the top 10 for this year. 

Q.   Do you still believe you can go even that bit further?
DAVID FERRER:   Is difficult.   Is difficult in these moments.   The top 4, they are the most regulars and consistence than other players. 

Q.   You don't fear them?
DAVID FERRER:   Is difficult.   I said is difficult in these moments now.   We start the season.   We can't to say now if I will go to come back to top 4 or not.   Now I am in fourth round and this is good for me, nothing else. 

Q.   Would you say that Richard is an unpredictable player?   Sometimes he can play very good; sometimes go through matches and not being on the court almost?
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I say before, he is a very good player, very talent player.   Sometimes plays better; sometimes plays worse.   But all the players the same, no? 
He's a top 15.   He was top 10 one year.   He did one Masters Cup.   He was with the best players, no?   So I think is a very consistent players. 
But is difficult.   All the players play good.   All the tops, the tennis is very close, you know, is very difficult for to win all the matches.   We have to fight a lot.   But I think for me Richard, he can come back again to top 10. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT