DAVIS CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP FINAL: ARGENTINA v SPAIN
December 2, 2011
Albert Costa
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. FERRER/J. Del Potro
  6‑2, 6‑7, 3‑6, 6‑4, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English. 

Q.   Congratulations.   Can you talk about the crowd, how it helped you guys out so much today and just in general?
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I think that it's a good day.   The match was very, very close, very tough.   I want a lot to beat Martin.   And maybe he wasn't, in my feeling, very consistent all the game, but I would say in the fifth set it was more easy because maybe he was more tired than me. 
For Davis Cup, it was very special.   I think all the Argentine guys and the Spanish people, they are supporting a lot to us, the players, and it was unbelievable, you know.   This is Davis Cup. 

Q.   Was there any time there when you thought you might not win?   Was there any time in the match when you thought you might not win?
DAVID FERRER:   No, no.   I think all the match I was focusing in my game.   I think I would last.   You know, the match, it was very close, no?   I mean, all the time I had confidence with me, with my captain, and with my team. 

Q.   Is there anything in Juan Martin's game that could give Rafa problems, you think?
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   I don't know.   I know the match, it was very tough, and maybe for Sunday, Martin, he was a little bit tired.   It's better for us, because Rafael won in three sets today, and this is very important.
We are 2‑0 up, and now we will rest and we will focus with the next, tomorrow.   No, I don't want to think about Sunday, because tomorrow we will have a really important match.

Q.   In London just six days ago, you told us that you were tired, very tired.   So how do you explain that you can run around like that for nearly five hours and give a great performance like that?
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I don't know exactly, you know.   This season, it was very long, but, you know, the Davis Cup is very special for me and for the Spanish players.   I like a lot to play Davis Cup, and I can practice these days very good. 
I was comfortable with my physique, and all the week, no, we practiced good.   And today maybe I play a really good game and maybe the best matches of my career. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Spanish. 

Q.   With Roddick, you were five sets.   With Stepanek, also five sets.   Do you have a special contract for long matches? 
CAPTAIN COSTA:   With Stepanek five sets, and with Roddick it was a three‑set game.   With Roddick was three sets. 
David is in very good shape.   I trust him entirely.   He's a player who never gives up a point.   You can count on him to be always there.   He has physically done it really well, and he has been decisive at the end.
Juan Martin was playing very good tennis, and he had to endure it.   He became more aggressive, and he won.   But it has truly been one of the best games I have ever seen him play. 

Q.   Congratulations for the game.   On Thursday you anticipated some of the keys for this match.   You talked about a game with many rallies.   In general terms, has the rubber beenas you expected it, or have there been any surprises?
DAVID FERRER:   I expected a very hard game with many rallies, but not as hard as it has been.   It has been very long with a lot of rallying, a lot of tension, good moments, difficult moments, and Martin has done a great match.   I had to be almost perfect; otherwise I wouldn't have won. 

Q.   Congratulations.   What is your key to get to the end of such a long season in the best physical condition?   Not any tennis player with 29 years of age gets in such a good shape. 
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   I don't have a serve of 200 kilometers an hour.   I don't have a volley like Federer.   But I'm in shape; I'm fit.   This year I have paced myself really well.   All my tournaments I have been 100%. 
When I came from London I was tired, but when I practiced here in clay, I felt really good.   I felt comfortable.   I felt in good shape.   And the fact that I was playing in London gave me a good rhythm to face up a five‑set rubber.

Q.   One question for each.   Albert, to come back after 2‑0 has only happened once in history.   Do you think Davis Cup is yours?   For David, did you realize that if you won the fourth set you were better mentally and physically?
CAPTAIN COSTA:   I think the tie is not clearly sentenced.   We still have a lot of work to do.   The doubles match tomorrow will be really complex.   The two matches on Sunday are very difficult, and anything can happen. 
We have to be aware of the fact that we are playing at 100% of our level and that anything can happen in every match.   Of course I'm very happy with the results today, but I think that many things can still happen. 
DAVID FERRER:   Yes, I knew that if I won the first set, I was in better shape than he was.   But a five‑set match is full of ups and downs.   There were downs for him, and then he recovered. 
In the fourth set I could see that he was tired, but I was also aware that he could also come back.   But fortunately that was not the case.   I have played a good fifth set.   I was more aggressive.   He was not enduring my rallies that well, and he has been very tough.   But the fifth set hasn't been as stressing as the others.

Q.   Have you had time to reflect, in the very few minutes you were away from the court, after which the match changed in direction?   What do you think about in those minutes?
DAVID FERRER:   I had a rest.   I thought about why I was losing points.   I thought about why he was taking so much initiative, and Albert helped me, supported me, explained me what I had to do to avoid that.   Fortunately, it worked.

Q.   To which extent do you feel that your game has neutralized one of the main weapons of Del Potro, which is the serve, bearing in mind that one high point of your game has been to return his serve?
DAVID FERRER:   I am a player who feels comfortable with returning the serve.   I don't have a good serve, but I return really well. 
And today, it was the day when I had to return the serve well, and I did it, especially with Martin's serve.
But the change in direction, my forehand was good, and I directed it really well.   I made him run a lot.   And in the fourth and fifth set, he was more tired than I was.   I was physically better than he was.

Q.   You have said twice that maybe you don't have a good serve.   But your serve worked very well today, especially the first part.   Maybe you have also said that it was the best match of your life.
DAVID FERRER:   Yes, I have improved my serve a lot over the past year.   I have a good first serve, and that gives me a lot of free points instead of having so many rallies and so much physical wear‑off. 
That is why today in the fourth and fifth set I had a good percentage and I had a good forehand.   Of course, it is clear we have to evolve and improve, but it's clear that I will never have a serve as good as Martin's.   But it's true that we have to‑‑ I have to polish off those details.

Q.   Congratulations.   I want to ask you, with your hand on your heart, do you think that the fifth point will be played?   If so, would you like to play against David or Juan?
DAVID FERRER:   I hope not.   At the moment I don't want to get to the fifth point.   We are 2‑0.   We still have a lot of things to happen.   The doubles match is very important.   I'm not thinking about those terms.
I just want to rest.   I want to sleep well.   Tomorrow let's see if we can win the doubles match and win the silver cup.
If we have to play the fifth point, I will be there to play for it if the captain wants me to do so.   I would rather get the doubles tomorrow or Rafa wins on Sunday 3‑1 than to get to the fifth point. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT