BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 26, 2011
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/D. Ferrer
  7‑5, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Give us your thoughts on today's match.   
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I think he was better than me, of course, no?   Maybe in the first set I had chance with 5‑4.   I did mistakes, my backhand.   After this in the second set he was playing better.   He was playing with more confidence.   And me, I don't serve really good.   I did a little bit double‑faults.   
   
 Q.   You've played some very good hard court tennis.   Now you have to go onto the clay.   How easy is it going to be to adjust to a very different surface in a very different stadium?  
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I think when you change every surface is difficult the first days.   But, you know, I like a lot to play in clay court, also in hard court.   But maybe my surface favorite is in clay court, no?   
Now I will go to Seville, I will relax some days, and I will try to adapt in clay court.   
   
 Q.   Was it difficult to come back so soon?   You can't have gotten home till midnight or later last night.   
DAVID FERRER:   No, no.   I was okay, no?   Maybe I don't have really time for to relax.   But is not excuse here.   He play better than me.   He was better.   I tried all for to win today.   I can't, no?   
   
 Q.   A lot of players have complained about the length of the season this week again.   Can I have your point on that.   
DAVID FERRER:   Yes, we know that.   I think all the players know the season is very long, is very tough for us.   We play a lot of tournaments, Davis Cup, ATP tournaments.   We finish in December.   Now I will play to Davis Cup.   Finally in December I have only one week to rest and I come back in January to play in the new season, no?   
We know that and we want to change.   We know is not easy, but we need to change the calendar.   
   
 Q.   You didn't seem that tired this week.   
DAVID FERRER:   But I am tired.   I am tired, sure.   I'm very tired (smiling).   
Me, I was fight.   But I'm very tired.   I want to stop, but I can't because I have the Davis Cup.   But I'm really tired.   
   
 Q.   You played better from the baseline in the first set.   Do you feel the match could have changed if you were able to take that first set?  
DAVID FERRER:   Well, maybe I play good in the baseline.   I play very good this week.   But maybe the difference was in my serve.   If I don't have a good percentage with my first serve, is very difficult to beat the top players, no?   
With Murray and with Djokovic, I serve really good.   And yesterday in the third set I serve very, very bad.   I don't have a really good percentage.   Today in the second set I did a lot of double‑faults, no?   Is the difference.   
Roger, in important moments, he serve very good.   Maybe this is the key.   
   
 Q.   Just a question about Davis Cup.   When you are on court, how different is it when you are playing Davis Cup compared to, for example, today's match?  
DAVID FERRER:   For me is the same.   For me is the same.   Davis Cup and here is very important tournaments, is very special tournaments.   You know, is the same.   For me, the same competition.   
I don't see this more important the Davis Cup or more important the Grand Slam.   For me is the same.   
   
 Q.   With regards to Davis Cup, have your efforts this week and Rafa's efforts this week left you at a big disadvantage against Argentina?  
DAVID FERRER:   Well, of course, is disadvantage because we're playing more matches.   We'll go more tired.   We have to change now to clay court.   The Argentinian guys, they are practicing two weeks ago in clay court.   Of course is disadvantage.   
But we know that.   Is the format of the calendar, the Davis Cup.   You know, we can't do anything like this.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT