BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 23, 2011
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. FERRER/N. Djokovic
  6‑3, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for David, please.   
   
 Q.   You made the semifinals.   Can you describe what emotion you're feeling after making it to the semis here.   
DAVID FERRER:   Well, of course, no, I am very motivation.   Now I have to play another match with Tomas.   It was a surprise, no?   I am in semifinal.   I won Andy Murray and Djokovic and nothing else, no?   I want to enjoy this moment.   
I will be focus with this match against Berdych.   I don't want to think about the semifinal in Saturday.   
   
 Q.   You haven't beaten Djokovic on hard courts before.   Did you have a particular plan on how to play today's match?  
DAVID FERRER:   No, nothing special, no?   Because with Djokovic, it's very difficult to do a plan.   
The last time if I beat to him, it was in 2007, no, a long time ago.   Djokovic is not the same player that four years ago.   
I think today maybe was my best match of the season and maybe he was a little bit tired, a little bit long season, he play mistakes.   
But I play really good today.   
   
 Q.   You shrugged your shoulders at the end of the match when you won.   Were you disbelieving at how easy it was?  
DAVID FERRER:   That's nothing.   It was a surprise for me, no?   I won.   Nothing special, no?   The gesture was for a surprise.   I won to No.1 of the world, won to Novak Djokovic in two sets.   
   
 Q.   You've beaten the bookmaker's number two favorite and now Djokovic.   What is your goal now?  
DAVID FERRER:   My goal now is my next match against Tomas Berdych.   I won two matches and I'm very happy for that.   But now I want to be focused with this match.   
My focus is always every match.   
   
 Q.   What made you play so well today?   Virtually everything you did was good.   Did you get a sense that it was good?   Did you get a good feeling?   
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I don't know.   I was feel good before the match.   Maybe the key was in my serve, no?   The last times against Nole, I didn't serve really good.   Maybe this year I improve a lot my percentage with my first serve.   
   
 Q.   This is not the first time you've beaten the world No.1.   Where does this victory rank in your career, in your achievements?  
DAVID FERRER:   Well, not is the most important.   Of course, it's very important, no?   I won to Andre Agassi 10 years ago in Roma when he was No.1 of the world.   I won to Rafael Nadal when he was No.1 of the world.   And now to Novak Djokovic.   
Maybe my best victory, my best tournament, was when I did final in Shanghai.   
   
 Q.   Not many people talk about you as much as the bigger players.   Have you been playing your two matches like you want to prove a point to people and show people who you are?  
DAVID FERRER:   No.   I think is normal.   I think Rafael Nadal, Roger Federer, Murray, or Djokovic, they are more important than the other players because they won everything.   And me, I did three times Masters final, but I never won an important tournament.   
I try to enjoy with this sport.   I am trying to do my game and nothing else.   I know why the people is, you know, talking more about the best players.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT