BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 21, 2011
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. FERRER/A. Murray
  6‑4, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you give us your thoughts on today's win over Andy Murray.   
DAVID FERRER:   I'm very happy, no?   I won to Andy.   In London, in your home, is not easy.   
I played very good.   I played very consistent all the match.   Maybe the first set I play better than the second.   In the second sometimes I was a little bit nervous.   
In important moments, I take my chance, and nothing else.   
   
 Q.   It's your fourth game against Andy this year and the first time you won.   What was the difference between the other three?  
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I don't know exactly the difference, no?   Maybe I serve better than other times, and maybe he plays not really good this match than Shanghai or Tokyo, no?   
Me, I think I played similar like the last time with him in Shanghai, but maybe in Shanghai he did less mistakes.   
   
 Q.   Did you sense he had an injury?  
DAVID FERRER:   Yes, I think he was some problems in the back, but I don't know exactly, no?   Maybe you can ask him when he come back.   
   
 Q.   Did you think he wasn't moving particularly well?  
DAVID FERRER:   No, he was play good, no?   He serve very powered.   Is not easy won to Andy injury or not injury.   I think maybe he had a little bit problems, but not too many strong problems, no, because he can play all the match.   
   
 Q.   It's important to get off to a winning start.   You have some key games coming up with Novak and Tomas Berdych as well.   Good position to be in, isn't it?  
DAVID FERRER:   I think it was important to start winning the match, no?   And if you won with two sets is better with the group.   You know you need to win one match more because is very difficult to pass to semifinal winning only one match.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel the atmosphere was today coming back here to the World Tour Finals?   
DAVID FERRER:   Feel good.   I like a lot play the finals.   I think this tournament is very, very special, is very important.   In this tournament, I did my first big final in Shanghai.   The last year I lost all the matches, and this year I can win my first match in London.   
So I like a lot to play in London and to play the finals.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT