SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 16, 2011
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/D. Ferrer
  7-5, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for David, please.   
  
  Q. It was a nice match, but you didn't put enough first serves in the court to win this match, I suppose.   
 DAVID FERRER: Yes, really. I don't serve really good this match, also because Andy Murray receive very good and I have to play more close on the lines.   
 Anyway, Andy was better than me in the second set. Maybe in the first set I have my chance with 5-All, 30-Love. I play so bad this game. After I had a long time serving very bad.   
 Anyway, is difficult to beat Andy in these moments. He is playing with very confidence.   
  
  Q. I want to know whether you think Andy has a realistic shot of becoming world No. 1 in the near future?  
 DAVID FERRER: Yes, of course, he can do it. He's a very amazing player. He won the best player of the world. I think he can do it. I don't know when, but...   
 I think the four players - 1, 2, 3 and 4 - in these moments is better than the other ones.   
  
  Q. This is a match between No. 4 and No. 5. Can you tell us how big the gap is between the top 4 and the others?   
 DAVID FERRER: The No. 1, 2, 3 and 4, they are very close. Well, maybe this year Djokovic, he won all. But I think, as I say to him, the four players in these moments is better than the other ones. Is no big difference, but a little bit difference.   
  
  Q. Who do you think is the best player on court right now? Is it Murray? Is it Djokovic? Is it Federer?  
 DAVID FERRER: Who is the No. 1? Djokovic. So is the ranking. The ranking is the ranking. Djokovic won all. This year it's unbelievable, no, to see like this with Djokovic. He won everything. I think he lost three matches, and two matches he pull out.   
  
  Q. It's the first time that Roger is now out of the top 3 in eight years. Do you think that's a significant development? Do you think Roger has a lot to do?   
 DAVID FERRER: No, no. I think Roger, he plays good this year. He lost some matches with Djokovic, no? He was close, very close, to won a Grand Slam. I think Roger, maybe not this year, but the next year he come back with very power and he come back to No. 1, of course.   
  
  Q. What makes Andy difficult to play against? What does he do well?  
 DAVID FERRER: Well, Andy, he serve very well. He has a really good backhand. He don't have mistakes. He's unbelievable, no? He's very fast. I need to play my best tennis for to win him, no? I need to serve good. I need to play with power, close to the lines. I need a lot of confidence for to win the four best players of the world.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT