SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 15, 2011
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. FERRER/F. Lopez
  6-7, 6-3, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for David. 

 Q. Once again you seemed to rise to the occasion in the difficult moments. Tell us how you managed to do that yet again. 
 DAVID FERRER: Yes, in the third match I lost the first set and I finally could win. 
 Maybe today I played the better match of this week. When I lost the first set, I tried to forgot the tiebreak and I tried to focus again, no? I played better in the second and the third. I serve better. Finally in the third set he did three double-faults in important moments and I take my chance.

 Q. It looked to me as you were looking to attack from early on. Came down to a battle between your forehand and his slice backhand. 
 DAVID FERRER: Obviously, I go more to the net. Is not easy with Feliciano because he plays a very good slice. Is not easy in hard courts. 
 But I did very well my passing shot. I think the key was in my first serve and in my return. 

 Q. You still have one match left to win. What would it mean to you to win your first Masters title here this week?
 DAVID FERRER: Well, I don't win the tournament. But for me is very special to be again in the final here. I did in 2007. I will try to do my best for win tomorrow. I never win a Master 1000, and is very important for me, for my career, for my tennis career. 

 Q. If you end up playing Andy Murray in the final, talk to us a little bit about your previous two matches with him. You lost in Tokyo recently. Andy is playing very well. How would you beat him?
 DAVID FERRER: Yeah, Andy is playing amazing, no? He won the last two tournaments. I lost against him in Tokyo easy, 6-3, 6-2.
 I know every week is different. But tomorrow I need to improve my game for to win to Andy. He's a top player, and I need to play my best tennis tomorrow for to win. 

 Q. Before this match Feliciano had a 6-1 hard court head-to-head advantage on you. What did you learn from the previous battles that attributed to this victory?
 DAVID FERRER: Well, I know the record with him, it was bad, no? But I tried to refocus on my game. I don't want to think about this one. Every match when I play with him, it was very close matches, no? I had confidence with me, with my game. 
 I like playing in hard court, no? Maybe I think my career I play better in hard court than in clay court. But with Feliciano, is not easy, no? He play better in hard courts, fast courts. 

 Q. You used the challenge opportunity a lot. Are you used to doing that or... 
 DAVID FERRER: No. I have the chance to call the challenge. You know, if the ball is close, I call the challenge. I know sometimes it's on the line, but if I have the chance, I do it, no? 

 Q. The improvement on your serve, did you change anything in your movement or something like that?
 DAVID FERRER: Well, maybe this week I improve my serve, no? Maybe it's my confidence with my game. I change a little bit my serve. I don't know how to explain in English, but I change a little bit. Throw higher the ball. 

 Q. What do you know or think about Kei, Andy's opponent this afternoon?
 DAVID FERRER: Nishikori is a very good player. I think he had a very bad luck, you know, because he was injury one year and a half. Now he's coming back. Lost against him three years ago in 2008. 
 I think is going to be a very good player. I don't know if going to be a top 10, but I think he can do it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT