SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 13, 2011
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. FERRER/J. Ferrero
  1-6, 7-5, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Before we start, by winning today David has become the fifth player to qualify for the Barclays ATP World Tour Finals in London. 
 Questions. 

 Q. Talk about how important it is that you've made the Finals. 
 DAVID FERRER: Well, it's very important, no? I am very happy, no? I am very glad because is the third time in the Finals in the Masters Cup and nothing else, no? 
 I think this season I played a really good tennis. I am very consistent, very regular. Maybe is my best year of my career. I think so. 

 Q. Can you talk about the second set, saving the three match points. What was going through your mind? 
 DAVID FERRER: Well, it was amazing, no? I had three match balls down. I serve very good in important moments. I think I did two points with my serve and one point I did a passing shot in the last moment, no? When I won this game, and after this game I make the break up very fast. 
 Maybe Juan Carlos, he was a little bit injury in the foot. Maybe in the third set it was more easy, no, for me. 

 Q. Now that you've qualified for the World Tour Finals, can you set your mind on what you might be planning for next year, 2012, particularly plans to defend your title in Auckland?
 DAVID FERRER: I don't think about this now, no. I am focusing in this moment, in the next match of tomorrow. After here, I come back to home. I will play to Valencia. I know is very nice for me this season, but I never think about the next year. Me, I am thinking just in the moment. 

 Q. Andy tomorrow. Obviously visions of time in Austin. You did really well there. Can you talk a little bit about that. 
 DAVID FERRER: Well, with Andy it's going to be difficult, no? The last time I was against him on Court 13 in the in US Open. But tomorrow I hope to play in the center court. 
 Well, I think I need to play my best tennis. I need to receive very good tomorrow. Today I saw the match with Almagro. He had a really good game. He serve very good. He played a really good points, good rallies in the baseline. 

 Q. I want to ask you a little bit about Rafael Nadal. You're friends. You've watched him through the years. How has he changed since he first came on the tour to you? How do you think he feels about this year? 
 DAVID FERRER: Rafa? Well, I think Rafa, he had bad luck this year. Well, of course Djokovic had unbelievable season, no? He won everything. He lost I think two or three matches. 
 But Rafa, I think this season maybe in the important moments he didn't play so good than the other years. But I think he's very close, no? I think the next year, it's going to be better for him because this year I think Djokovic had something very difficult to repeat again the next year, no? 

 Q. You beat Andy here in 2008 at the Masters Cup. Do you think the courts here suit you compared to Flushing Meadows?
 DAVID FERRER: I don't know. I don't know. I think the court is the same, no? It's hard court. I think every match is different, and tomorrow is going to be different. I will try to do my best. I don't think about the last matches with him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT