MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 15, 2011
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. FERRER/V. Troicki
  6-3, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. David, there are players like Ljubicic in his 30s. We have Roger and Jurgen out there. You're in your late 20s. These players are playing very good tennis slightly later. Why do you think that is?   
 DAVID FERRER: (Through translation.) Yes, I don't know exactly. But I think that now players have a lot better fitness and condition. This is why they are able to sustain the rhythm for a longer period in their lives.   
 But now it's becoming difficult because young players are pushing. Generally speaking, the older ones, we have good physical condition.   
  
  Q. You seem to be playing as well now as you've played. Your level this week has been terrific.   
 DAVID FERRER: (Through translation.) Yes, indeed. I had a very good season so far. I have some good confidence. That helps me to be consistent in my game on clay.   
 Well, I hope it's going to continue.   
  
  Q. What is your feeling about the game conditions here, about the court? Is it slow, fast?   
 DAVID FERRER: The court is very slow. Depends on the weather. But today the weather is close and the court is very slow.   
  
  Q. Would you say it was an easy match today?   
 DAVID FERRER: No, of course, no. It was a very tough match, a lot of rallies. I receive really good. Maybe this was the key in the game.   
  
  Q. You played against him two years ago. How would you describe now? Is it better?   
 DAVID FERRER: Yeah, of course. Troicki, he's winning a lot of matches this last year, the last season. He's 15 of the world. Two years ago he was 40 or 50 because he was a young player. Now he has more experience. He improve a lot the game in clay court, of course.   
  
  Q. It was more difficult for you today than last time?   
 DAVID FERRER: No, it was difficult. Maybe the result, it was easy but the game, it was difficult. 6-3, 6-3, but we did a lot of runs.   
  
  Q. You seemed to have no problem switching to clay.   
 DAVID FERRER: (Through translation.) I practiced for one week and this was my first match on clay, so it was tough. But, indeed, this year I have had no problems switching from hard courts to clay. It's been easier than former years.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT