SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 30, 2011
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. FISH/D. Ferrer
  7-5, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. My question is about Djokovic on clay. You are playing good tennis on clay. Do you think Djokovic can win Roland Garros and play very well on clay this year?   
 DAVID FERRER: Well, I think of course he can win Roland Garros, no? He won all the matches this season.   
 But I think favorite in clay court is Rafael Nadal.  
  
  Q. Could you comment on Mardy's game? He seemed to be serving very well today and playing well off the ground. Did he play better than you expected maybe?  
 DAVID FERRER: Well, I had the stomach problems all the match. I can't play my game, no? But I think he serve really good. A lot wind it's not easy, but it's not a good match.  
  
  Q. Because of why, physical problems?  
 DAVID FERRER: Yeah, stomach problems all the match.  
  
  Q. Is that a pulled muscle or like a sickness?  
 DAVID FERRER: I think it's the digestion.  
  
  Q. Something you ate you think or you got a bug?  
 DAVID FERRER: I don't know. I don't know. I went to the court, and I when I run to rallies, a lot of pain in my stomach. In the second set, I cannot run anymore.   
  
  Q. The crying baby, was it kind of like the last straw? Obviously things weren't going well for you.   
 DAVID FERRER: No, no. It was not the problem.   
  
  Q. You tried to clock him with the ball.   
 DAVID FERRER: No, no. It was in one moment of the match, but nothing special.  
  
  Q. You weren't fit today obviously, but beyond that, you work so hard. You've had such a good, consistent record, yet you have a little bit of a trouble getting over the last stage at the Masters and the Grand Slam level. Why is it this?  
 DAVID FERRER: Well, it's my game, no? My game need to do a lot physic. My fit is very important for me. I need to work every day, no, because my game is very consistent, and I need to play very regular all the time.  
  
  Q. What do you think of Mardy's game at the ripe old age of 29?  
 DAVID FERRER: Well, I saw Mardy yesterday and the match of Richard, and he plays really good games, no? He has very good matches. He's a very good player with good serve, good volley, and I think he's in a good moment now.   
  
  Q. Do you think it's still possible for you to improve or to change some things, or are you a finished product at this point in your career?  
 DAVID FERRER: Well, I will try always to improve my game, my volley, my serve. I think every year I come to improve, no, because I need to improve because every year are coming more young players, and it's not easy to stand by in the top 10.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT