MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 4, 2016
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. FERRER/D. Kudla   
6-4, 4-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Very happy to see you out there playing again.  Kudla is not one the most famous American players, but a very hard rival, isn't he?  
DAVID FERRER: Yeah, well, all the opponents are tough.  It's been an intense match, especially the third set.  Maybe in the second set instead of going for the match I was just waiting for him to maybe miss a little bit more his first serve and then just go in.   
In the 5-4 I was playing really badly and that's why he just got more into the match and it was quite tough for me.   
 Q.  After so much time out of the court, two matches to three sets, how do you face the match against Berdych?  
DAVID FERRER: Of course right now I'm tired.  It's been a tough match and it's never easy.  That's the way it is.  Now I'll try to recover.  I'll try to recover myself for tomorrow because I have to give 100% to be able to have options and be able to win the match.   
 Q.  From your point of view as a mature player, how do you see the new generation of players?  
DAVID FERRER: Well, luckily we have been able to play a lot of years, but right now we have a good generation.  Kyrgios is a really good player.  Paulo Carreño is also playing great again.  Well, again.  He's young and playing very well.   
Roberto Bautista is a little bit older but playing well and stepping up, and that's very important.   
Also, Coric is a player to follow.  We have quite a few.  Coric may be a little bit irregular, but he's a very good player.  I would say that from the players that are playing regularly, we have Kyrgios, which has a lot of potential.   
 Q.  What do you think is going to be the most important thing against Tomas?  
DAVID FERRER: I think I will have to play aggressively and have a good first serve percentage.  Whenever I miss my first serve with he's going to step in, and with this court it's very difficult to defend.   
With the altitude we have here, the short players like me feel it a lot and we have to strike first.   
 Q.  You have been a little bit injured at times and now you're facing a top 10 player.  Do you think this match is a little bit early in the round of 16?  
DAVID FERRER: No.  I have to play this match when I have to play it.  At the end of the day, all the players are great and I can't do anything else.   
Tomas Berdych is a great player.  I made it to the third round and that's the most important thing.  I really don't think about anything else.  Right now it's the moment to think about it, to be in the third round.  I have to know that tomorrow I have to play really well.   
 Q.  Tomas made it the to semifinal last year and lost against Rafa, but you beat him.  Talking about Prague's final.  It was really a good match, wasn't it?  
DAVID FERRER: Yeah, yeah.  Well, every single match is a new subject.  I don't remember last time I played against Tomas, if I'm sincere.  I don't know if it was against him in Doha.   
Well, I don't know.  All matches are different.  A week you're euphoric playing at a great level, and the next week you're not playing so well.  I just don't think about those things.   
 Q.  I think tomorrow you're playing on the same court, the second court.  Do you think that you're closer?  What do you think suits you better?  More people or when you play in a smaller court?  
DAVID FERRER: Well, I don't know.  Perhaps against Berdych I would rather play in the big court, the central court, because it's he's a player that hits really strongly the first ball.  I always like to play on the central court.  I understand it's difficult.   
Playing on the second court, well, it's a wonderful court and I really enjoy playing on that court, too.   
 Q.  Can you tell us what you think your level is right now?  
DAVID FERRER: Well, I really don't know what my level is right now.  First day I played at really high level first and second set, and today I haven't played so well.  Tomorrow I hope to have good feelings and have a good match.   
 Q.  What do you think about Rafa's tennis during the last days?  Do you they're he has options and he makes it to the final and plays against Djokovic?  
DAVID FERRER: Well, sometimes you make some questions that there is still a lot to go for that.  We still have a lot of tournaments.  Of course he has options to win.  Before winning Monte-Carlo I knew that he had options because Rafa is very close.  He made it the semifinals in Indian Wells I think playing at a really high level.   
The matches that he lost in South America were just because of one point.  He would've won two tournaments over there.  He's looking forward to this, and that's the most important thing.   
From there on there is some tournaments that play you better; others where you don't.  Last year Rafa finished fifth, and to me that's a great result.  He had been a lot of years ending first and second.  Ending up fifth might seem like it's not a good result, but it's not that way.  Rafa is up there with the top players.   
 Q.  Feliciano married; Almagro married; Marc Lopez is married; you're married.  Do you pressure Rafa to marry?  And also, is it important when you're personal life is in order?  Do you feel it out there in the court?  
DAVID FERRER: Well, of course it's always good to feel well in your personal stuff.  Also, Murray and Djokovic married and they are better off.  In my case didn't go so well professional talking.  Personally I'm fine.  Perfect.   
No, no, we don't put the pressure on Rafa.  He has to choose his way.  We don't even talk about that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT