DAVIS CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP FINAL: CZECH REPUBLIC vs SPAIN
December 4, 2009
Albert Costa
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. FERRER/R. Stepanek
  1-6, 2-6, 6-4, 6-4, 8-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: We will take questions for Captain Costa and David Ferrer.   
  
  Q. Did you always have the belief that you'd be able to come back in that match? What for you was the turning point?   
 DAVID FERRER: Well, maybe I believe in the third set, no, at 3-All. When I won the third set, I have confidence with me, no? Maybe this moment.   
  
  Q. Albert, Spain 2-0 up now. Your thoughts as the way you see the rest of the tie. You have the opportunity to clinch the match with the doubles on Saturday.   
 CAPTAIN COSTA: Tomorrow we will have the first chance; on Sunday we will have two more.   
 We know now we are in a good way, but we must remain calm, we must remain concentrate, and we must rest this night and tomorrow try to give again our hundred percent. Let's see. If not, we will try on Sunday.   
 Now we are in a good way, but still is a lot of work to do.   
  
  Q. Any chance that you will change the doubles team tomorrow?   
 CAPTAIN COSTA: My doubles team?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 CAPTAIN COSTA: Well, there's not really chance. I think Feliciano and Fernando, they are good, a very good couple. I think they're going to play, yeah.   
 But you never know. Maybe one of them, they had a bad night or something, or something happens. But normally, no.   
  
  Q. David, where would you rate this result, this victory, compared to a lot of the other big wins you've had?   
 DAVID FERRER: Well, I don't know, no? Maybe the most important with my career because this is the one final of Davis Cup. I think is comparable to Masters Cup, no? But I losted the final, and this time I won my singles.   
 You know, depends we will win the Davis Cup or not.   
  
  Q. Albert, as the captain, what do you say to David going into the third set in terms of tactics to pump him up?  
 CAPTAIN COSTA: I was just trying to support him mentally. I said to him, Okay, now we lost two sets, but now we still have another chance. We will have to make the effort to try to get it. That's what I said to him. He did pretty much well.   
  
  Q. Albert, if nobody is injured, you have five, six, more players you could choose from. Does that make the task for you as a captain overall easier or more difficult? It was not easy selecting David or Fernando for the singles.   
 CAPTAIN COSTA: In Spain we have two different things. We have a lot of players, but it's not easy to choose because they all deserve to be there. Then you have to choose maybe because of some tactic things or some feelings that you have inside.   
 But at the end everybody can play.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT