BARCLAYS DUBAI TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 28, 2009
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/D. Ferrer
  7-5, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for David, please.

 Q. What made the difference in the end? 
 DAVID FERRER: Sorry?

 Q. What made the difference between you?
 DAVID FERRER: Well, he plays better than me, serve better. He played very, very focused on the match.
 But me, I played a good game. I'm happy with my game, but maybe the key was he's a better tennis player than me. 

 Q. What was your strategy coming into the match? How were you going to try and beat Novak today?
 DAVID FERRER: Well, more accuracy with my forehand, but he was really fast on the time, very regular. And the serve, he has better serve than me in important moments, and the serve was the key, the only difference. 

 Q. Are you pleased with your week, the week as a whole? Are you pleased with the week?
 DAVID FERRER: The week? Yeah, of course, I did a very good game, very good tennis, and I'm very happy. 
 Maybe this week I found my tennis. Maybe this week, I played -- I enjoyed with the tennis. I'm happy with my tennis.

 Q. Do you think you are back at your best ever?
 DAVID FERRER: No. I am not. No, I don't think so. I don't think so, to come back to Top-10 now, I think it will be very difficult. 
 But for me now, I'm enjoying the tennis and I'm happy with the tennis and I plays very, very regular, the opportunity maybe Top 15, Top 20, not like Top 10 maybe. But I don't think back to consistent Top 10.

 Q. Last year, were there times when you did not enjoy so much?
 DAVID FERRER: No, no, of course. Last year was a good year. I finished 13th of the world and it's very, very good for me. But maybe the last four months, I didn't enjoy. I had a lot of problems with my mind and I didn't enjoy the tennis. And this season, I enjoy. This is important for me. 

 Q. Are you looking forward to the Davis Cup match?
 DAVID FERRER: Sorry? 

 Q. Looking forward to the Davis Cup?
 DAVID FERRER: Yeah, of course. Now I want to focus with the Davis Cup, and we will play at home in clay court, my surface favorite, and we will see then. 

 Q. When you talk about your problems with your mind, when it comes to the mind and injuries, what do you weigh first? Are you scared of the mind, or are you scared of the injuries?
 DAVID FERRER: I think it's all together. You are good physical and you are good mind. But of course, the mind, it's most important. In the tennis, it's all, you know. It's very important. 

 Q. How tough is it to switch from hard court to clay court?
 DAVID FERRER: Change, well, it's difficult. But with Novak, it's not easy. He plays really well on all surface. 
 But maybe on clay court, I will have more chance because I play -- I am playing like a clay court -- maybe I rush easier on clay court and maybe I have more chance, or maybe not. 
 I prefer play against him on clay court than a hard court. 
 THE MODERATOR: Anymore questions? Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT