U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2008
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  K. NISHIKORI/D. Ferrer  
6-4, 6-4, 3-6, 2-6, 7-5  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. So how was today's match and how was Nishikori?  
 DAVID FERRER: He's a very good player, no? Young player, plays very well and serve really well. Good level, no? I like it much.   
 Maybe the fifth set I did my best point and he take the chance, no?  
  
  Q. How is your condition?  
 DAVID FERRER: My condition? Now I'm not too much happy, but it's okay, no?   
 I fight a lot, and Nishikori plays better than me I think.  
  
  Q. You won a terrific five-setter against Nadal - I might be mistaken - last year.   
 DAVID FERRER: No, four sets.   
  
  Q. But nevertheless, do you relish a night match that really is a slugfest in the end, a very difficult match both ways, that lasts a long time?  
 DAVID FERRER: Last year is past and now is present. I think every match is different, no, different points, different conditions, and I don't think so.  
  
  Q. In the first two sets it looked like you were having some trouble returning his serve. Was it just too hard for you? Was it just hard to see?   
 DAVID FERRER: No, I don't know. Maybe the first set I was 4-2 with break up, and I play so bad this game, no, with my serve.   
 I don't serve very well. Maybe in the fifth set I don't serve very well. I played very regular all the match. Sometimes good, sometimes bad.   
 But this is tennis and Nishikori plays pretty well.  
  
  Q. Did he surprise you in the first couple sets, like how high of a level he was playing?  
 DAVID FERRER: No, no. Because I know Nishikori won this year tournaments to Blake. No, I know surprise.   
  
  Q. He called the doctor, trainer. How did you think about it?   
 DAVID FERRER: I don't think nothing. I am focus on my game and for the next point, no?   
 I don't think nothing.  
  
  Q. Do you think you should have maybe called the trainer yourself?   
 DAVID FERRER: No, it's not a problem, no? It's the rules of the game, no? He can call to the training, and he did.   
  
  Q. Which shot made you difficult to play from Kei?   
 DAVID FERRER: Well, my forehand, no? I did -- I had big problems with my forehand and I did made mistakes, a lot of mistakes.   
 And him, no, maybe the backhand of him really well, no.   
  
  Q. Looked like you were getting a little unnerved out there and banging the racquet. Did it hurt you at all when you were getting upset? Do you feel like you were a little bit frustrated?  
 DAVID FERRER: It's normal, no? It's my mentality. It wasn't to be nervous. But if I don't stay nervous I cannot play very well, no? I need this one, and, no, nothing.   
  
  Q. Are you impressed with Nishikori? He's only 18 but he plays with a lot of poise, like he's 25 or something.   
 DAVID FERRER: He's a very good player, no? I know that. I was saw last year in Tokyo and I like it too much. It's not a surprise. For sure he will be a very good player, no?   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT