U.S. OPEN
August 25, 2008
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  D. FERRER/M. Arquello  
7-6, 6-2, 6-2  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How important is winning this tournament? Is it going to be the kind of case where you worry about being the Carlos Moya of this century: a good player but doesn't win the championship? Is that a concern?  
 DAVID FERRER: (Speaking Spanish) No.   
 THE MODERATOR: I wish I could achieve, you know, half of what Carlos has achieved in his career just going to take it one match at a time and see how it goes.   
  
  Q. Last year you had great success here obviously. Can you draw upon that success to, you know, help you gain confidence, you know, this year?  
 DAVID FERRER: (Speaking Spanish.) Well, this season really good, no? I am playing very regular. But maybe the last season was my best results in my career, no? Final in Shanghai and semifinal here.   
 We will see. But I know it's very difficult to improve of the last year.  
  
  Q. The four Grand Slam events are all very, very distinctive, different, different challenges, different atmospheres.   
 DAVID FERRER: Well, the Grand Slam it different, no? Is the best tournament of the tennis players, and we play more motivation, no, more focus than other tournaments. For me, US Open was my best result here, and my best -- I did my best Grand Slam, no?   
 And now I am happy for come back here, and we will see, you know.  
  
  Q. I know you've had some difficulty on the hardcourts this summer. Is this something you're working on right now? If you could just describe sort of how you're playing and your sense of confidence coming in.   
 DAVID FERRER: Well, it's important we win easy the first round, no? More confidence in the next rounds. But I don't think about the Grand Slam. I think with the next match.   
 Now I am playing normal. I improve more than the last three weeks, but I need to improve more for to do a good result here.  
  
  Q. You're really one of the great returners in the game today. What's the secret to being a great returner?  
 DAVID FERRER: (Speaking Spanish.)  
Well, I don't know, no? (laughter.)  
 I fight always. I play normal. I don't play really good, but, you know, when I won -- when you win, it's very important, no? Because the first rounds, always they say in Grand Slam, be very difficult, and this time I can win in three sets.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT