AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2008
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Why was it so different from the game in Shanghai? 
 DAVID FERRER:  My mentality, I think so.  I start very bad, very nervous.  And maybe it was a problem in the first set, no?  When I lost the first set, in the second, he plays better, with more confidence.  In important moments he serve well.  But me, it wasn't a good day, no?  I had too much mistakes, and I lost a little bit the focus in the moment. 
 But Novak is a very good player.  I'm not well in my mentality, and the match, it's impossible to win him, to beat him. 

 Q.  In the end you had the opportunity to change the momentum? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Yeah, in the third set.  But, you know, the problem was in the first, not in the third, because I have chance in the third set, 5-4, then I play too bad this game.  And my serve, I serve very bad in important moments.  And I lost the focus too much times, no? 

 Q.  What makes him so tough to play, Djokovic?  Is it an overall thing?  The serve?  The legs? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Well, Djokovic is somebody who will play, no?  Serve well.  Good forehand, backhand.  It's fast, no?  It's a good player. 
 But, you know, I know it's difficult to be beat him, but different, no, you know.  The mentality, different.  More difficult for him.  Today I didn't play it, really. 

 Q.  Is he ready to win this tournament?  Has he got the ability to win this tournament now? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Well, I don't know.  He's in semifinal.  He continue to be in the tournament.  But for me, the favorites, it's Rafa or Federer.  But Djokovic is unbelievable player.  He is the third of the world.  Of course, he can win the tournament. 

 Q.  And your opinion on Tsonga?  Is it a surprise for you? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Yeah, it's a very great player, no?  Serve unbelievable.  He's playing with very confidence.  And not a surprise, because he's a young player, and it's a difficult play with him.  But, you know, semifinal is unbelievable, no? 
 But all the week, these two weeks, he's playing very regular, and he's serving unbelievable, no?  He beats Murray.  Is very difficult to beat Murray in the first round.  And you know he's playing very, very regular. 

 Q.  But Rafa is the favorite in the game? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Yeah, of course.  Rafa is 2 of the world.  More points than Sampras.  No. 1.  Favorito. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT