TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 18, 2007
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Roger talked after his match about taking time away from other players.  Is that how it felt to play him today?  Could you explain to be on the receiving end of that, how exactly does it work? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Well, Roger, he plays better than me today, sure, no?  He's the No. 1.  It's for me the best of the history. 
 You know, me, I try to do my best.  Maybe I play with a little bit nervous, but him do it all, no?  Serve, volley, slice.  It's very difficult.  My game, it's difficult play with him, no? 
 Nothing else, no?  The match, history, he plays better than me. 

 Q.  Is that the best he's ever played against you? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Well, I don't know, no?  Maybe was not the better but -- because it was a loss to him easy, no?  It was to me easy the results.  But this time maybe he plays very good all the match, very regular, no? 
 And me, I play good, but maybe a little bit nervous than other matches, no?  It was my first final, you know.  But Federer, he's playing very, very well.  He's No. 1.  It's true, no? 

 Q.  You played the top three players in the tournament.  Can you describe the gap between Roger Federer and the others?  Some people argue the gap is getting smaller. 
 DAVID FERRER:  Well, maybe Federer, Djokovic and Nadal, they are another level, no, than other players.  But Federer is different, no?  Different because he can to do all, no?  He serve very well.  He has a very, very good forehand, backhand.  He has no weak point, you know.  He's the No. 1, no? 
 The best of the history, sure, no?  12 Grand Slams and sure maybe he will do the record of tennis, no? 

 Q.  Is it still fun when you're playing Federer? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Well, I cannot enjoy when we had loss easy, no?  Federer was playing very well. 
 But me, I try to do my best.  I fight.  But, you know, is difficult play with Federer, no, because serve and volley, plays slice, plays topspin, which change your game, no?  I never comfortable in the court, no? 
 But I'm happy for the week because I am playing a very, very good level, and my first final in the Masters Shanghai.  My family, they are here.  Very happy for that, no?  But now maybe I was a little bit angry because the final I lost.  But very happy.  Very happy for this week. 

 Q.  In the middle of the year it seems that maybe Roger Federer can be challenged by the young players.  Do you see one player who can reach his level?  If so, who? 
 DAVID FERRER:  I don't know.  Maybe Rafa this year plays more poorer than the last year.  You know, it's one thousand points.  It's too much.  But Rafa is more young, and I think so.  Maybe Federer can play this level four, five years more, but I don't know. 
 Now Federer for me is the best.  But for me the next No. 1, it's Rafa Nadal. 

 Q.  You returned very well, but today you had some problems with the serve of Federer.  Can you tell us why it's so difficult to return? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Because Federer, he serve very well, no?  No return bad.  But when Federer is serving in the line I can to do nothing. 

 Q.  How do you feel after the fantastic week?  You were the best performing player of this week, better than players with higher ranking than you.  How do you feel about that? 
 DAVID FERRER:  No, he play very well this week, no?  I'm very happy for this week.  It's my best year, my best result in my career, my best ranking the next week.  I finish 5 in the world, no?  It's a surprise for me, and I want to enjoy now with my friends, with my family, for this year. 

 Q.  You like to work a lot.  How many days of holiday will you take? 
 DAVID FERRER:  I think so 10 or 12 days, two weeks. 

 Q.  You've spoken generously about Rafa and Djokovic.  To have seen your performance this week, a good year overall for you, should one expect you to be on their level next year?  Is such modesty required at this point? 
 DAVID FERRER:  I don't think so, no, because for me this year was perfect.  And Rafa and Djokovic, they are young players.  They are better players than me, no?  The results is there. 
 And for me, for to finish top 10 or top 15, it's very good ranking, and I happy for that, no? 
 No, no, I don't fight with Rafa and Djokovic or Federer, no, because they are another level, I think so. 

 Q.  We know in this tournament you actually had some contact with the Chinese masseurs.  Does it have something to do with the Chinese masseurs?  Do you think you will have some cooperation with them down the line? 
 DAVID FERRER:  No, no (laughter). 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT