TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 17, 2007
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  You've made it to the finals.  Do you think you can draw some lessons out of this game today?  Tomorrow, no matter whichever one you play against, what is your probability of winning the trophy?   
 DAVID FERRER:  Well, today I played very good.  Maybe the key was I return very well all the match.  I learn nothing, no, because I play with Andy too much times, no?  It's another one.   
 And for tomorrow, I prefer Rafa, no, because he's Spanish guy, is my partner.  But for me, is my first final in Shanghai Open and I'm very happy for that.  Now I want to enjoy in this moment.   
  
  Q.  Gasquet said after your match you are the favorite of the tournament and you can win this.  Now that you're in the final, do you believe it is true?   
 DAVID FERRER:  Well, I don't know, no?  For me, Roger, Rafa, they are the favorites players, no?  No. 1, No. 2.  They are the best players in this year and two years ago.   
 And me, is my first final.  I am playing with very confidence.  I am playing very well.  But I don't think so if I am the favorite player, favorite for to beat the tournament, no?   
  
  Q.  Everybody thinks you are very fit on the court.  Can you tell us exactly how much you train during the season, before this Masters Cup as well?   
 DAVID FERRER:  Well, before the Masters, I play one tournament in Paris Bercy, no?  I practice every time the same, no?  Me, I practice more my physic, no, because I need run a lot to physic, no?  My game is too much physic.   
 But, you know, I practice maybe similar, like a lot of players.  I don't change nothing special.   
  
  Q.  You defeated Novak Djokovic and Rafael Nadal.  Do you think you still have the potential to be higher in the rankings in the future?   
 DAVID FERRER:  I don't know.  Now I want to enjoy this moment.  Then next year is another year.  I don't know.  I work every day for to do my best.  But I don't know.   
 You know, Rafa, Djokovic, Federer, they are better players.  Me, I just pray well one tournament, or maybe two tournaments, but I am not with the same level than Federer, Djokovic or Rafa.  You know, you can see the results still.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT