TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 15, 2007
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Has it gotten to the point where you expect to come out and play this well or does it still surprise you at all? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Well I came with very confidence, no, because I am playing very regular all the year.  But I don't expect to do semifinal here, no? 
 But I am really playing well with very confidence and I enjoy every match. 
 I don't think nothing of this.  For me, I think the next match, the next point.  I am playing really well.  But, you know, I am with very confidence. 
 But I don't think if I play the next match I play better or bad, no?  I run a lot and I try to do my best, no? 

 Q.  Before the match, did you ever think you would have to fight for Nadal?  After your three consecutive wins, have you ever considered you would be the champion? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Sure, no, no.  Me, before the match, I was in the match, the match against Gasquet, nothing else.  Rafa won the match.  We are happy for that, no, because he's Spanish and he's in semifinal.  Is very important. 
 For to win the Masters, it's a dream to win, no?  Me, I want to think with the next match.  For me to do semifinal it's a very important.  Really, really good, no? 

 Q.  With three wins, not having huge amounts of money in your pockets, like $450,000, much more than you earned in the US Open as a semifinalist.  So I'm sure this is the most prize money you have earned in such a huge event.  How do you plan to deal with such huge money? 
 DAVID FERRER:  No, I don't think nothing, no?  I don't play tennis for the money.  I play tennis because I like and I enjoying for to win the match, no?  Never I want to think in the money. 
 I don't know how many I won the money. 

 Q.  When the draw was out, you were not the favorite for the fans or the media to pick to qualify for the semifinal.  What do you say about that? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Well, I don't think nothing special, no?  Me, I play every match.  I enjoying every match.  And, of course, I not the favorite, no, because Rafa is No. 2 of the world, Djokovic is No. 3.  Maybe me No. 3 because I was the sixth. 
 Really, it's as you say.  But the tennis every week have a surprise, no? 

 Q.  Gasquet was saying in the press conference that if you asked him what his game plan would be to play Nadal or Federer, he could tell.  He said playing against you, he doesn't know what to do to beat you.  I'm curious, how do you approach the game?  Do you have a preference for somebody to play in the semis or do you just play your game? 
 DAVID FERRER:  I don't think nothing.  For me it's important to play the semifinal, but I don't prefer Roddick or Federer.  For me it's a dream to do semifinal here, no? 
 But you ask me about the player.  Well, the two players play unbelievable, but Federer is the No. 1, then... 

 Q.  You have played a lot of matches this season, but you are still very physically strong at the end of the year.  Are you going to plan to play a similar number of tournaments next season? 
 DAVID FERRER:  I don't know, no?  Now I think in this tournament, and the next year we don't do the calendar.  I need to do the holidays first, to practice for Australia.  When we will go to Australia we will see every tournament, no?  It depends of the results.  It depends of the matches.  It depends if I will play more tired or with more confidence.  Depends. 
 Now I cannot say you, tell you, if we going to play more tournaments or less. 

 Q.  You have three victories now, even better than Federer.  How do you feel about that? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Yes, yes (laughter).  No, Federer is No. 1 of the world.  Me, I am playing very, very, very good these three matches.  But just is a match.  No is the result of the season, you know.  Federer is the better of the history. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT