TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 13, 2007
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  It's the first time you qualified to play the Masters Cup.  Do you expect to defeat the No. 2 and No. 3 player in the world in a row? 
 DAVID FERRER:  No, I don't think nothing, no?  For me, I am focus for every match, no, for every point.  And, you know, I'm very happy for come here, qualify to the master cup, no? 
 But me, I try to do my best.  These two times, really I play very well. 

 Q.  Before the match when I interviewed you, I asked in which respect you outplayed Nadal.  You said you play PlayStation better than Nadal.  Can you tell us more, any other aspects that you are better than Nadal? 
 DAVID FERRER:  No, no, nothing.  Just in the PlayStation I'm better than him (laughter). 
 In the tennis, is one match, no?  But Rafa is sure better than me.  He's the No. 2 of the world, the best Spanish of the history, the Spanish history.  But this is just one match.  But on the PlayStation, I'm playing sure better than him. 

 Q.  Do you think it helps you that people talk about Roger Federer here, people talk about Rafael Nadal, and people don't really talk too much about David Ferrer?  Do you think this is good that people kind of ignore for you? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Is the same for me, no?  It's normal they speak more of Rafa, Federer because No. 1, No. 2.  For me, just No. 6 and first time, no? 

 Q.  It's the end of the season.  Some players complain they are pretty tired.  How do you keep physically so fresh in the end of the season? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Well, all the players were tired, no?  But I think maybe me, I'm with very confidence.  It's my first time in the Masters Cup.  You know, I don't have pression. 
 But I think the 8 first of the world, we play a lot of matches, no, in all the year. 

 Q.  When Nadal caught up in the last round of the game, how did you feel? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Well, in this moment, I was very nervous, no, because I was a little bit cramping for the tension, for the nerves.  And Rafa is unbelievable, no?  He's a fighter all the match. 
 You know, but I am playing with very confidence and I play perfect in the third set, no?  If I don't play perfect, I can not to beat Rafa, no? 

 Q.  You like red and black.  Which color do you prefer? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Well, I like Lotto, it's my mark (smiling). 

 Q.  The next match will be against Richard Gasquet.  You beat him easily last time.  Do you feel your game suits his game very well, or he played very badly that day or he played very well? 
 DAVID FERRER:  No, he played very bad.  He doesn't play in the final of Tokyo because he retired in Bangkok.  This time it will be different, no? 
 Gasquet, he's playing very well.  He beat Djokovic.  He played very well with Rafa.  I think it was a very tough match, no? 

 Q.  You have been recently quoted saying that once you were the worst top hundred in the world.  Then the Spanish journalists told me you were the worst top 10 in history.  Do you start to believe you may be a very good player now? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Well, when I saw this one, the worst of top hundred, maybe it's a moment for me.  I was playing very bad, no?  But just some words.  I don't think these ones sure, no? 
 Now I don't know if I am the worst player of the top 10 or top hundred.  Now me, I want to think the next match and try to go with my best tennis.  Nothing else. 
 I don't want to think if I the worst, if I the better or not. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT