TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 11, 2007
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Today your quickness on the court was incredible.  Do you think that wore Novak down?  He looked tired early in the match. 
 DAVID FERRER:  No, I don't think so.  No, my game is for to run a lot, no?  And Djokovic, he play with more power, no?  I don't think so I was tired to him. 
 I think in the first set he play the first game with a little bit nervous.  Maybe I used to be this one, no?  I play with confidence all the match.  I played really, really good. 

 Q.  You won in Tokyo.  Your late-season form is very good.  What do you think is the key to your form over the last part of the season? 
 DAVID FERRER:  I don't know, no?  Physic, mentally, with mind I am with very confidence, no?  Maybe the final of the year, playing very, very good tennis in Paris.  I played very good. 
 I don't know, no?  Maybe was the confidence.  The confidence is very important.  The physic, no?  It's the final of the season.  I am very great physic. 

 Q.  Today belongs to Spanish players.  I noticed Robredo is watching Nadal's game and Nadal then watched your game.  How close of friends are you? 
 DAVID FERRER:  We are good friends, no?  I am happy because Rafa won.  Me won.  It's important for the tennis in Spain, no, two guys won their first matches. 
 You know, Rafa and me plays the next match.  It's different, no?  But I think so we can to do, no?  We can to pass for the semifinal.  But the matches are very close.  You know, the first match you don't have to think nothing more.  Just the next match. 

 Q.  Today you and Rafa Nadal won matches.  You two had six encounters in the past.  Did you gain something out of it?  Did you learn some lessons to beat him next time? 
 DAVID FERRER:  I need to run a lot for to beat to him, no?  Just this, no?  Because Rafa is the No. 2 of the world.  It's the favorite.  If he plays with a good level I think it's a difficult match, no, for me. 

 Q.  For the last couple of years, Roger and Rafael have been a good distance ahead of the next group of players.  Do you see the distance tightening up in the next year?  Do you think the very top of the game is becoming more competitive right now? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Well, I don't know.  But I think so Roger and Rafa, it's another level, no?  They are playing very great.  This year, the last year, two years ago...  I think so. 
 Maybe Djokovic is more close than Rafa or Federer, no?  But I don't think so the other players is more closer. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT