U.S. OPEN
September 8, 2007
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions.   
  
  Q.  How did your legs hold up in this match?   
 DAVID FERRER:  No, it was okay.  Maybe a little bit tired, but in the third set, no?   
 But, no, he plays very well.  He plays good, no, good level.  Maybe I think was the serve, no?  In the important moments, in 3-All of the second set, 4-All in the first, important moments he serve better than me.   
  
  Q.  When you look back at this match, will you have used the right tactics in playing him?   
 DAVID FERRER:  No, I don't know.  Maybe I don't look the match more.   
  
  Q.  Maybe more aggressive?   
 DAVID FERRER:  Yeah, maybe more aggressive, no?  Because I try to play my best, you know, but he plays better than me, no?   
 Maybe my legs at this time -- I don't play bad, but not that similar against Rafa or Chela, no?  But because him plays good, no?  I don't know.   
  
  Q.  You were up 4-1 in the first.  You held serve at love.  I think he wins 12 straight points.  What happened at that point?   
 DAVID FERRER:  Maybe I break in the second game, but in 4-All just one break, you know.  In the wind one part it's more difficult, no, for to won this match, this game.  Maybe was difference there, no?   
 You know, he serve better than me.  When he serve in the wind, from the windy side, he has more chance than me, no?  'Cause I need to fight every point.   
  
  Q.  How do you think you'll look back at this US Open in the future?   
 DAVID FERRER:  No, I am very happy for the tournament.  Maybe, no, sure is my best tournament of my career or my life, no?   
 And now, maybe I was angry, but I am happy for that.  I am happy for this week.  Now I come back to home.  I have two weeks to relax, and I want to enjoy with my family and my friends.   
  
  Q.  Because of the hard court success you had here and some other tournaments, like Miami last year, do you think you'll begin to consider yourself not just a clay court specialist but someone who's equally good on both surfaces?   
 DAVID FERRER:  Well, my specialist is the clay court, sure, no?  But I play well in hard court.  I am playing well this year and last year, no?   
 I happy with my game in hard court and nothing else, no?  I must to practice similar and to work every day.   
  
  Q.  You play well, but do you feel?   
 DAVID FERRER:  Yeah.  It was okay, no?  I don't change my game if I play on hard court or clay court, no?  I play the similar like this, no?  Maybe I was lucky and I play well in hard court because my return is good, no, and I have more chance than a lot of other players.   
  
  Q.  If Federer wins, can Novak beat him?   
 DAVID FERRER:  Well, Novak beat him two weeks ago, no?   
  
  Q.  This is a Grand Slam.   
 DAVID FERRER:  He can to do it, but Federer for me is the favorite.  But in the tennis, we don't know.   
  
  Q.  Were you nervous in this moment:  semifinals of a Grand Slam?   
 DAVID FERRER:  No, not nervous.  Not really nervous because I start very well, no?  It's the more difficult, the start, the beginning the match.  I play well.  I begin very well, no?   
 But, no, him plays better than me.  I think nothing special, no?  He has more power, better serve.  When he plays good, I can't to do nothing else.   
  
  Q.  It looked like he was tiring in the second set.  Body language, head down, trainer came out.  Were you encouraged at that time you might have an advantage?   
 DAVID FERRER:  No, I don't think nothing.  But maybe in this time, in 3-All, I played very bad, this game, no?  Because 40-Love, winning, I lost this game.  Maybe there was a chance there, no, in the second set.   
 For me, I was more chance in the second set than in the first.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT