U.S. OPEN
September 4, 2007
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions.   
  
  Q.  Could you describe your feelings.   
 DAVID FERRER:  Yeah, feel good.  Very feel good, no?  I play very, very well.  Maybe I was lucky, no, because Rafa was with physic problems.   
 But I did my game.  I played point to point.  I'm very happy, no, because I am playing very well in this tournament and all the year.   
  
  Q.  Rafa said he didn't want to make any excuses regarding his physical condition.  He said you outplayed him tonight.   
 DAVID FERRER:  Well, thanks for Rafa, no?  But, you know, I played very well.  And maybe he doesn't play the best match or doesn't play when he was playing in Montréal or on all the year.   
 But, you know, me, I did my game and I happy for that, no?  I tried to did my best tennis, and maybe this match was the better of the US Open, no?   
  
  Q.  Are you a little bit scared now to have not enough energy for the next game because you had a five-setter and now a four-setter and both games were intense and long?  Tomorrow you can rest, but it took a lot of energy?   
 DAVID FERRER:  Now, 2:30 in the night (smiling).  Now I'm very tired because with Rafa, I was to run a lot, no, for beat to him.  And with Nalbandian, was the same, no?   
 Maybe this match was a more tension, no?  And I don't know, no, I have one day for to relax, for to do massage.  And, I don't know, I hope so to stay perfect, no, for play against Chela.   
  
  Q.  Did you play a special strategy today or it was just a matter of perfect execution?   
 DAVID FERRER:  Yeah, maybe -- no strategy, because with Rafa, I know I have to run a lot and place with very good precision, no?  And tonight all was perfect, no?  Good execution, and the volley I place well, no?   
 I did my chance in the important moments.   
  
  Q.  What do you know about Chela, how you feel you'll match up against him?   
 DAVID FERRER:  Chela is a very good player, no?  He's a very tough match.  You know, very good -- we have to play with too much rallies, no, in the baseline.  And he's playing very well this year.  I have to play my game, no change nothing special.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT