U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2007
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  How tired are you? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Yes, very tough match.  Now I am a little bit tired, no?  But one day to relax, to do one massage, to do stretching.  I hope to maybe... 

 Q.  No IV? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Sorry? 

 Q.  No intravenous? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Ah, no.  No, I can't. 
 Drink so much water and massage.  Nothing else. 

 Q.  Tougher than the match at the Australian Open? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Yes.  We played a few years ago, I think so, four years, and I lost this time 6-4 in the fifth, no?  This time I change. 

 Q.  What pleased you most about your performance today? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Well, now I am playing very well, no?  I happy with my game.  Maybe the best moment of me of the year. 

 Q.  Match point against you, David comes forward, easy backhand, muy facil? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Yeah. 

 Q.  What are you thinking of?  Are you thanking God or something at that point? 
 DAVID FERRER:  No.  I don't thinking nothing.  I am very focused at the match, point to point, you know.  I don't think nothing.  But maybe he has a chance in the fourth and in the fifth, no, in the match point.  Easy backhand, you know, it's normal, no? 
 Because he has a very, very good backhand.  But in the fifth we are tired, no?  I think him and me. 

 Q.  You've got Nadal coming up next.  What do you expect and how can you beat him? 
 DAVID FERRER:  I don't want to think now because I'm tired.  If I think with Nadal I'm more tired.  No, Nadal, you know, he's unbelievable player, no?  He plays with very good level.  He runs so much.  It's difficult to win to him. 
 But I have to think -- try to do my best tennis and enjoy with this match, no? 

 Q.  Why are you such a good fighter? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Yeah, because it's my game, no?  Because my game is serve and volley.  I need to run too much to win the matches. 

 Q.  But were you always like that when you were a little boy? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Yeah.  I always play similar games.  Spanish games. 

 Q.  Because you were born like that?  Do you think it's inside you?  In your family you were the little fighter all the time? 
 DAVID FERRER:  No.  I don't know.  I don't know.  My family support me to play tennis, but it's my character. 

 Q.  Some other players are not so good like you for fighting.  You were better. 
 DAVID FERRER:  I don't know because maybe other players maybe serve better than me and I need to run point to point. 

 Q.  Do you think that because you are such a fighter and because you can stay on the court so long that when someone plays you, particularly on clay, you already have an advantage because they know how physically strong you're going to be in the match? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Yeah, maybe in clay it's more easy for me, no?  Because we have best rallies, no?  And baseline, they can play the baseline.  In hard court it's more difficult, no?  Because the ball is more fast and the court is more fast. 
 But for to do a good ranking I need to play in hard court and in clay court, no. 

 Q.  You are one of the best service returners in tennis, and two weeks ago in New Haven you played John Isner, who's a big story here for America.  What did you think of him?  You beat him, of course.  You lost the first set.  But what's your opinion of John Isner's game? 
 DAVID FERRER:  He's a great player, no?  I like, know, because he's a young player and serve very well.  He can play good in the baseline, no?  I think the next year John Isner was top 30 or top 40 easy, no? 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT