WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 16, 2007
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Quite a win for you, huh? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Yeah, very good victory.  Maybe the match very tough, very hot today, but I think so no was a good match.  We don't play very good in the baseline.  He doesn't play very well.  He serve good.  And me, I did my chance in the good -- in the important moments. 

 Q.  But those last two points, could you describe them, because they're both really pretty intense points. 
 DAVID FERRER:  Yeah, yeah.  Because in 5-4 it's important whose plays well, no?  I try to run and to have these points, and I have it lucky. 

 Q.  It was luck? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Yeah.  Very good lucky. 

 Q.  Did you feel like you were just faster than him out there today? 
 DAVID FERRER:  The game is different, no?  He serve more than me and I am more fast than him, no?  It's different, the game.  You know, I play in the baseline and him good serve, good volley; it's different. 

 Q.  When you saved those three set points in the first set... 
 DAVID FERRER:  Yeah.  Maybe he has the chance in the first set, no, change the match for the first set.  Me, I play well in the breakpoints, in the set points.  But maybe him I mistake I thinking one time when I serve, no?  But I don't know.  I mean, for me I do -- I serve very well and I did my game, no? 

 Q.  You've only been broken I think one time this tournament.  Do you feel like your serving very well? 
 DAVID FERRER:  Yeah.  I'm serving very well.  It's normal, no, because normally I did more breakpoints, and more break my serve.  But for me, this tournament, the best I did is the serve. 

 Q.  There are three Spaniards in the quarterfinals so far and Ferrero is playing tonight, and four Spaniards last year made it to the quarterfinals.  Is there anything special about Spaniards playing in this tournament? 
 DAVID FERRER:  I don't know, but the last years we play well here.  Robredo, Rafa, Ferrero, and me, no?  And this year three more.  I don't know why, but we play very well here.  Ferrero did final here and Moya won one time here, and Robredo, he did two semifinal. 

 Q.  Seems like a lot people think Spanish players are really good on clay, but you guys have proven you're good on hard court as well. 
 DAVID FERRER:  Yeah.  But now I think it's different, no?  Moya plays very good hard court.  Ferrero, he did final in US Open.  For to have a very good ranking you have to play in all the surface. 
 It's normal who plays better in clay court, you know, but the Americans play better in hard court because practice always in hard court.  But now the Spanish players, we can play very good in all surface. 

 Q.  Do you think it helped you today that the weather was really hot? 
 DAVID FERRER:  I don't know.  Maybe, no?  But I don't know was the different.  You know, maybe I have lucky because he doesn't plays good in the baseline. 

 Q.  How do you keep him on the baseline then? 
 DAVID FERRER:  I don't know.  I run and I play the baseline. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT