ATP MASTER SERIES MADRID
October 17, 2006
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  David, the serve for you has failed.  What's been the problem?   
 DAVID FERRER:  It hasn't been a pity.  It's been a whole disaster.  I don't mean just the serve, but everything.  Even if I won a second serve, I think I had many errors.  I was not concentrating.   
 I didn't find myself at a good point physically nor mentally.  It's a very negative evaluation.   
  
  Q.  Is it that you have physical problems?   
 DAVID FERRER:  No.  I'm okay physically, no health problems.  I've not played well since the U.S. Open, and today has been the culmination of the last tournaments.  I thought I was playing at home and feeling enthusiastic, but I didn't find myself.  This has been one of the worst days of my career.   
  
  Q.  Maybe you gave your best at the beginning of the season and then you are very tired right now at the end?   
 DAVID FERRER:  No.  It's not that because last year was a very consistent year.  I started well.  I ended well.  This year I'm not feeling okay.  I'm burned out.  I realize I need to change quickly, start a new season and start all over again.   
  
  Q.  Have you got any chances if you go to Paris and battle?  Mathematically could you be able to qualify or is it absolutely impossible?   
 DAVID FERRER:  It is impossible.  Besides I'm not even thinking about it, because I'm not prepared.  My level is very low right now.   
 I want to end the season, try to win a match if I can, but it's difficult that I qualify.   
  
  Q.  Last year you were close to qualifying, and you need to keep in the elite of tennis in the top, you haven't changed that?   
 DAVID FERRER:  Well, I'm going to try.  I'm going to try to be in the top.  I'm not feeling well now mentally or psychologically.  I'm not feeling like fighting.  Without that you can do nothing.   
  
  Q.  However, do you think with this year at Wimbleton you almost won, and you had chances.  Do you feel you're improving a little bit to what's next year, maybe not only play?   
 DAVID FERRER:  Yeah.  But I cannot look back at my victories past.  I'm not at that level, not at the level I was at the beginning of the season.  Either I change it right now or we stay where we are.   
  Q.  Have you ever played anybody who attacks the net as much and as effectively as Henman did today?   
 DAVID FERRER:  There is players in the ATP like Mirnyi or Mardy Fish that volley really well and come to the net.  And he's one of the best players in the world also.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT