NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 28, 2006
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  Can you just give us your thoughts on the match, initial thoughts, reactions.   
 DAVID FERRER:  (Through translation).  It was a very hard match and probably the tightest match I've ever played in my life.   
  Q.  What made him such a tough opponent?   
 DAVID FERRER:  (Through translation).  Good question.  This is the first time that I beat him.  The other times I had lost to him.   
  Q.  Didn't you beat him in the French in 2004?   
 DAVID FERRER:  Yeah, two years ago.  But this year I lost two times with him.   
  Q.  What was different this year, the two times you faced him this year you lost in straight sets?   
 DAVID FERRER:  (Through translation).  I mean, this time I was more consistent and more concentrating on the big points.  Obviously, I mean, like every match is different so it's difficult to compare.   
  Q.  But what is it about Rochus' game that gives you a little trouble?   
 DAVID FERRER:  (Through translation).  Because he's a very good player.  He has a very, very high level.   
 I think he will be like Top 15, Top 20.   
  Q.  Such a long match.  Can you talk about how you felt physically and the matchpoint, it was a great end to the match.  You set up the matchpoint well, came in, had a nice volley.   
 DAVID FERRER:  (Through translation).  Yeah, I mean, obviously it was a very, very hard match.  In the end, you really need to take your chance to win these kind of matches and that's what I told myself to do, and I did it.   
  Q.  He was visibly frustrated after the first set, snapped his racquet and then the crowd was kind of whistling.  He lifted up his hand like encouraging a little bit.  Can you talk about that.   
 DAVID FERRER:  (Through translation).  No, that's stuff that happens in tennis.  I broke my racquet because I was nervous.  That was not the first time and it's not going to be the last time.   
  Q.  Was he hurting at all, any parts of his body?  It looked like Rochus was champing.  How was he physically?   
 DAVID FERRER:  (Through translation).  Obviously, we were both very tired.  I didn't have cramps, I was just having the beginning of cramps.  Obviously, I was asking for the trainer because I really needed to rest and get ready for the game.   
  Q.  You're the No. 2 player, Spanish player.  Are the Spanish players very close?  Are you guys all friends, or is there a deep competition between you?   
 DAVID FERRER:  (Through translation).  No, we are a good group.  We get along very well.  I don't know anybody that doesn't get along with another player in the Spanish group.   
  Q.  I am wondering about Nadal.  I know he is the big name now.  He is the No. 1 in Spain.  Is it hard for you to have recognition at home with him, and with Moya being a force and a former No. 1?   
 DAVID FERRER:  (Through translation).  No, absolutely not.  I mean, it's great for Spanish tennis to have Nadal at the top.  The more players we have such as Nadal, the better it will be.   
  Q.  You're facing Roddick, Andy Roddick next.  Can you talk about Andy.  I think you've played him once.   
 DAVID FERRER:  (Through translation).  I played against him in Paris Bercy last year.  Obviously, he's a very good player.  He serves very well.  He's a very complete player so I will have to be concentrated throughout the match.   
  Q.  Sunday is your birthday.   
 DAVID FERRER:  Yes, 2 of April.   
  Q.  How nice would that be, to be playing on Sunday?  What kind of birthday present would that be?   
 DAVID FERRER:  (Through translation).  If I play Sunday in the final, I invite all of you out for dinner (smiling).   
  Q.  Also, I know you've won, I guess, one career title, right, in Bucharest.  It's been a long time.  You must be very consistent because you're ranked very highly.  How important is it for you in your career to win, to go all the way and win more titles?   
 DAVID FERRER:  (Through translation).  Obviously, that's what we all fight for, to win titles.  I haven't won for like five years, but this is what I'm trying to do this week.   
  Q.  I know that you read a lot of books still.  What was the last book you read, and what did you think of it?   
 DAVID FERRER:  (Through translation).  The last book by Dan Brown, "Digital Fortress."   
  Q.  What did you think of it?   
 DAVID FERRER:  (Through translation).  I like it, it's a little bit like The Code.  I like it.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT