TMS - MADRID
October 20, 2005
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions in Spanish.  
 
 
Q.  This confirms you're great indoors, too. 
 
DAVID FERRER:  Yes, it was a great match.  It's true this year I've done well indoors.  Yes, I've done well in other tournaments, too, but...  
 
Q.  To what extent have your possibilities to get to Shanghai increased? 
 
DAVID FERRER:  I don't know.  I cannot think about those things every match.  Shanghai is far away.  We'll see.  This, of course, is a prize, a reward for the season I've played.  
 
Q.  Can you sum up your tennis year.  What can you highlight? 
 
DAVID FERRER:  Highlight?  Quarterfinals in Paris, the match against Gaudio was very thrilling.  For the rest, everything I've played.  Today was thrilling, too.  Very exciting on the court with Spaniards, with your people.  This is a thing you cannot forget.  This is something you keep for yourself.  
 
Q.  Can you imagine what Mariano is feeling right now, in his situation? 
 
DAVID FERRER:  Difficult.  But it's news that hasn't been proven yet.  I'd rather not give my opinion.  However, if the result is positive, I hope it was a mistake or something that didn't go well.  I don't think he did it on purpose.  Mariano is a great player and does not need these things to get to the top.  
 
Q.  What happened with your ankle, with your toe?  What was it? 
 
DAVID FERRER:  The Achilles tendon last week at Stockholm.  Also as a result of the effort I put in this week.  I took some pills, and I guess there's no problem any more.  
 
Q.  How did you get over losing the first set?
 
DAVID FERRER:  I had a lot of breakpoints the first set, but then he played well.  It was difficult to return his serves.  While I lost the first set, I felt comfortable.  That's why I didn't lose concentration.  I tried moving fast and forget the first set.  
 
Q.  Do you have a dream to get to the final or are you focused on each match, and that's it?
 
DAVID FERRER:  Yeah, I'm thinking about the first point tomorrow, and that's it.  
 
Q.  The Davis Cup, does it excite you, too?  Do you think you have chances of playing that? 
 
DAVID FERRER:  Well, that's far away, too.  Davis Cup is not guaranteed.  It depends on the moments that players go through.  That's a good thing, too.  I've had a dream come true already.  I can welcome anything that comes in the future.  
 
Q.  We've talked about Ferrero.  You know him from Villena.  What's the secret from that part of Spain?  Are they working hard? 
 
DAVID FERRER:  Valencia is a place of good tennis players.  Ventura, Ramirez.  It's not only Valencia, anyway.  Madrid, too, has good tennis players.  Not only Barcelona, as years before, where great tennis players came from Barcelona.  Every community now has good tennis players.  
 
Q.  What do you think the key point of your victory was?  What do you feel proudest of?  Your serve? 
 
DAVID FERRER:  Maybe the key point was that I kept consistent throughout the match serving well.  Those small details, like a breakpoint, is where you win the match.  I think mentally I was feeling consistent, feeling that, you keep -- is the way you face the match, especially playing at home with your people.  That's special.  
 
Q.  Playing at Roland Garros against Gaudio, and taking into account in general this year, what's the secret for an improvement like this? 
 
DAVID FERRER:  I think I am more mature mentally.  Last year was a good match, but far more irregular, with peaks, ups and downs.  I had very good moments but also very bad ones.  Every year you gain maturity, you get to know the circuit better.  Tennis is very competitive.  Now I'm here, but next year I don't know where I will be.  
 
Q.  I asked you the other day, you're a great tennis player, but people don't get to see it, to recognize it. 
 
DAVID FERRER:  Yeah, but Rafa has played 10 tournaments in a year.  It's normal that Rafael gets more headlines than me.  
 
Q.  Despite Rafa, why don't you get the fame you deserve? 
 
DAVID FERRER:  Because there's people that do it far better.  Rafael, for instance, gets all the attention he deserves.  This is not bad for me, but good for all tennis players, like Ferrero, Moya.  It's a good thing that a boom like Rafa makes people pay attention to tennis and may make us all tennis players try to improve.  But I do think, it's like Beckham, for instance.  People pay attention to Beckham and not Guti, that's for sure.  Pablo Garcia, I don't know.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT