TELECOM MASTERS ITALIA
May 6, 2005
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  So you were up one set and 3-All in the second set, and suddenly you couldn't make a shot. 

DAVID FERRER:  He started to hit harder and I had a little bit of void sort of, so things got complicated.  But I was clearer in the third set. 


Q.  Do you think about maybe winning this tournament?

DAVID FERRER:  No, not at this stage.  It's going to be difficult.  I don't know who I am going to play with, but I am already satisfied with my match today. 


Q.  In today's match, like in your career, you had ups and downs.  What makes the difference? 

DAVID FERRER:  I think this is tennis.  Until the last ball, nothing is over, so you never know.  But I think for me it's mental.  I'm playing well, and this means that I am very confident at this moment and things are easier. 


Q.  Today the gap between surfaces is less heavy.  Do you think it becomes easier to play on both surfaces?

DAVID FERRER:  Yes, but a good player has to play well on all types of courts.  Like all Spanish, I prefer red clay, but many Spanish prove that we can play as well on other surfaces. 


Q.  What about the next Davis Cup tie, Italy versus Spain? 

DAVID FERRER:  Well, it's going to be very tough because Italy has players like Volandri, who is very strong on clay in my opinion, then Starace.  Of course we have Nadal, the gladiator.  It's sort of good to have him on our side.  But it's going to be a very tough confrontation. 


Q.  If you play Nadal tomorrow, have you a special plan? 

DAVID FERRER:  No, I don't have any plans; you cannot have any with him.  I just have to run, run.  But if he is having a good day, it's very tough. 


Q.  Technically, what is the main progress you've made? 

DAVID FERRER:  Well, on serving and at the net.  But, as I said, it's something to do with my mental strength.  I'm much more confident. 


Q.  Have you worked with somebody to be stronger mentally?

DAVID FERRER:  No, just with my coach, my family, and then it's also natural because with time you become older and wiser. 


Q.  How was it to beat Gaudio yesterday, who won Roland Garros, like that? 

DAVID FERRER:  I think that the result was not sort of normal.  I mean, he wasn't very well.  I'm happy, but it's not so normal. 


Q.  What did you think about the fact that he was always complaining about the lights? 

DAVID FERRER:  While we were playing, I didn't understand it was about that.  I understood he was complaining about something, but I didn't know it was about that.  For me, it was okay.  I was winning.  It was true that the lights from flashes were sort of annoying. 


Q.  You broke a racquet in the second set. 

DAVID FERRER:  Well, that's sort of normal.  There are moments when you do that.  I was in quarterfinals, you are 6-2, 3-0, so you see the match going away, so it's sort of normal.  Then it was tough for him.  It was sort of a weird match, very tough for both of us. 


Q.  Which surface do you prefer, clay, or do you think you can be as good a player on hard court? 

DAVID FERRER:  My favorite is red clay, but I can play on hard and I have some good results there, too.  It's important to play well on all surfaces. 


Q.  Do you always have a two-handed backhand? 

DAVID FERRER:  Yes. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT