BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 16, 2015
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. MURRAY/D. Ferrer   
6-4, 6-4   
An interview with:   
DAVID FERRER   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You struggled with your serve today.  Can you tell us what was wrong, what was making it so difficult?  
DAVID FERRER: Yeah, I serve bad the end of the first set and also in the second set.  When the serve, it doesn't work with top-10 players, or for play against Andy, it's difficult beat him.   
Anyway, in important moments he was better than me.  He played more aggressive than me.  In the end of both sets, I didn't play so good.   
 Q.  Your ball toss has been struggling all year, I would say.  Is it a mental thing?  
DAVID FERRER: No.  I was serving good the last two month.  I am happy with my serve.  It's only one match.   
 Q.  Are you surprised the way he played, since he was apparently practicing on clay court until Thursday?  Do you think this court is quite slow, that there is not so much difference between a clay court and this surface?  Normally it should be different the way you move.  
DAVID FERRER: The court is slower.  The court is slower, sure.  Is different than clay.  The movements are different.   
For me is easy change clay court to hard court.  For me is more difficult change hard court to clay court.  In clay court you have to have more power in the shots.   
 Q.  How well do you feel Andy is playing?  
DAVID FERRER: He's playing good.  He did final last week.  He is No. 2 of the world.  He's playing with very confidence.   
Also he's in the final of Davis Cup, playing the three matches.  So he's doing one of the best season of his career, for sure.   
 Q.  I've almost never seen so many dropshots on an indoor court like today.  How do you explain it?  You were playing too much behind, or he's taking advantage of the fact that the ball doesn't bounce high?  What is the reason?  
DAVID FERRER: Depends of the moment.  Depends of the match.  Depends of the opponent.  Depends of the point.   
Sometimes in the indoor court there are a lot of dropshots, sometimes there are not.  Depends of the match.   
 Q.  Do you feel that playing Davis Cup so soon after this final is a good thing for Andy or a bad thing?  
DAVID FERRER: No, of course is a good thing play final of Davis Cup.  He has a very good opportunity for will win his first Davis Cup.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT