ROLAND GARROS
June 3, 2015
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/D. Ferrer
  7‑6, 6‑2, 5‑7, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English. 

Q.   The end of the third set, how were you?   Did you feel confident?   Were you tired?
DAVID FERRER:   I feel good.   I tried to do my best, but finally I can't win.   I think only he was better than me. 
I didn't serve so good in all the match, and he played with more power than me.

Q.   You have beaten him four times and four on clay.   What was the difference today?
DAVID FERRER:   Well, every match is different.   The performance, the feelings are different. 
Anyway, Andy, he's playing with more confidence with his game and he's playing more aggressively.

Q.   How much do you think Andy has improved?   From the other side of the net, what was his level like today?   Good enough to beat Novak, for example, or not quite?
DAVID FERRER:   Well, yes, for sure.   I don't know. 
Andy is one of the best tennis players of the world, and it's gonna be tough match tomorrow, for sure. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Spanish. 

Q.   After winning the third set, then you lost the thread of the match.   What has changed?   Why have you lost the match?
DAVID FERRER:   I was still alive on court, but my opponent played better.   He was quite aggressive, and I couldn't counter his game.
His balls were very heavy, and I wanted to win the match but I wasn't rewarded, unfortunately.

Q.   Do you think you gave your all today?   You did your best compared with last year? 
DAVID FERRER:   The situation can't be compared with that of last year.   Today I lost because he was a better opponent. 
That's a pity, because I served well.   I did not manage to win the first set, but there's no doubt that Andy was a better player. 
I can't add much. 

Q.   Allow me to put this question to you:   Rafa said that he will be back at Roland Garros with a desire to win, and I think that you will be eager to win again.   It is said that Spanish tennis is over.   There are lots of rumors about the end of Spanish tennis. 
DAVID FERRER:   That's true, we are all Spaniards and we can be foul tempered from time to time.   So we are getting older, myself and Rafael, but we are still amongst the best players in the world.   I think that we shouldn't rule out Rafa Nadal. 
As far as I'm concerned, my ranking is quite good.   I'm still among the top players ranked 4th or 5th in the race.   There are excellent players coming in, and I think that they will take over from us in the future.
You are telling me that there is no player like Nadal.   I'm aware of that.

Q.   What are you going to do?   Do you know your schedule?
DAVID FERRER:   I will play in Nottingham to prepare the grass court season, and then I will see what I'm gonna do.

Q.   Who is the favorite to win the title?   Who would you like to win?   Do you think that Andy has the abilities and skills to hurt Novak?
DAVID FERRER:   I don't have any favorite.   I get along with Andy and Djokovic.   I have very good relations with them, so I don't have any preference.
I will watch the semifinal and the final because I like watching the tennis.   These matches are big matches. 
Of course, I couldn't watch Rafa's match against Djokovic.   I was surprised by the score.   It was a straight‑sets victory.
But I'm surprised because Rafa has played well so far.   I can tell you that Novak has passed an important milestone that I think Andy will have to fight in order to beat Novak.

Q.   How do you assess this tournament?
DAVID FERRER:   Quite positive.   I advanced to the quarterfinals and I'm among the top 8 players. 
Regarding my tennis, I'm quite consistent.   I'm quite regular.   If I were to make an assessment of my clay court season, it is quite a good season so far on clay. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT