ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2015
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  D. FERRER/M. Cilic  6-2, 6-2, 6-4  THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   Q.  Once again, another French Open; once again, second week, here you are again.  Physically, do you feel fairly fresh?  Seems like, today's match included, you're going through very well.  Do you feel fresh now?  DAVID FERRER: Normal.  I feel good.  Of course, two days ago I play a very close match, but today I was good, no, with my fitness.  It was complete match.  I think that it was my best match these two weeks.   THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.   Q.  I'd say this match was easier than expected.  It was a match that you won quickly.  DAVID FERRER: Yeah, that's true.  Three sets only.  I didn't expect this.  Cilic is a very difficult player to play against, but I thought really I was comfortable until the very last point.   Q.  You needed this quick win so that you could have enough confidence for the second week.  DAVID FERRER: Yeah.  I won it.  It was a three-setter, and I feel fit to play my best tennis for the following match. Mainly I'm satisfied with how I played today.  I played really well on all shots.  It's really is good in terms of gaining confidence.   Q.  Could you tell us why you have not played on one of the main courts?  DAVID FERRER: Well, that's not something I worry about.  You know, there's still Djokovic and Nadal on the during the tournament, so I'm really okay where I play. If, on Wednesday, I were to play on a huge court, this would be okay.  But for the time being, it's okay for me, the small courts.   Q.  Yesterday you practiced with Nadal.  What would you say about this for Roland Garros?  Do you think that there's going to be again another match against Djokovic?  DAVID FERRER: I think he plays really well the two matches I saw.  I'd say he played really good.  His level is excellent.  During practice, you know, there's not much you can say about how the player plays, but Rafa is still the favorite for Roland Garros.   Q.  It seems that Murray is about to win the fourth set.  He's going to be, therefore, your opponent next round.  It seems he's made considerable progress on clay.  DAVID FERRER: Yeah, it seems he's much more aggressive.  When he used the different shots he has to play, he's one of the best players in the top 3, I'd say.  If, in addition to this you were to count his talent, I think that he's more aware of what's happening. Not just on quick surfaces, but also on clay.  He's much more serene and calm.   Q.  You are perhaps not that much covered by the media.  You have not played on the main courts.  Everybody always talks about the same players and not much about you.  Do you think it's positive or negative?  DAVID FERRER: I don't know if it's positive for me or not.  But as I said before, I really don't care about this.  I'll follow my path, my career.  I try and play each match as best as I can so as to win. I'm very much aware of that.  I fully understand that the ones in the limelights are other players like Nadal and Djokovic, and mainly when they reach quarterfinals. I have just reached the quarterfinals.  It had not happened to me for a long time.  Everybody is happy with me.  I'm delighted.  The press treats me really well. So, no, no, I have nothing to complain about.  My life is not going to change tomorrow.  I hope it's going to continue for many, many years.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT