ROLAND GARROS
May 30, 2015
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  D. FERRER/S. Bolelli6-3, 1-6, 5-7, 6-0, 6-1THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.Q. It was a very strong finish in the end.  What switched after you dropped that set?DAVID FERRER: Well, it was tough, sure.  I won in the fifth set.  I think I didn't play so good.  I was not energy in some moments, and my opponent, he played very -- obviously, his serve very good in the second and third set.  I have my chance with 4-3, but it's impossible play with good, and today, it was not a good day for play my tennis, but finally I could win and this is the most important.Q. What kind of things do you feel you need to improve when you face Marin Cilic in the next round?DAVID FERRER: Well, of course I have improve my game.  Marin, I know if I play like today, I will not have chance for win.Q. There are a lot of former players, former champions around in the players' lounge.  Is there anyone specific you're happy to bump into?  To meet here?DAVID FERRER: Not especially.  Yesterday I saw Gaston Gaudio, he's a good partner.  I was talking with him, and I happy to see him.THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.Q. You lost 12 games in a row and then you turned the tables.  What happened?DAVID FERRER: Yes, I had to change my game.  He was playing very aggressively.  He served well and then he started to slacken on the serve.  I forced him to run around the court, and I managed to win some games.Q. Allow me to insist, but you were about to be defeated.  It was a match, one set, you managed to turn the match around.  How did you do so?DAVID FERRER: I turned the tables because I changed my tactic, my tactical approach.  I was more aggressive. I knew that it was not a good day for me.  Tennis-wise I knew I had to step up my game.  From time to time you play well, and at other times you play badly, so I managed to turn the match around.  I did my best.  I tried to focus on my game.  I wanted to change my tactic, and it paid off.Q. It's a five-set match.  Are you more confident, especially when you are down?DAVID FERRER: If I were to choose, I mean, I prefer winning in three sets.  It's less tiring.  It's less draining.  Mentally, three sets, it's okay, or five sets, it's okay, but what matters is to win the match.Q. First part of my question.  If you consider 1996, there were only three Spanish players who managed to get through to the third round, and that's the case today at the present time.  Can you talk about Davis Cup?DAVID FERRER: Tommy Robredo, Nicolas Almagro, both players have been injured, and the Spaniards had to play against strong opponents.  From time to time you have five or six Spanish players.  But of course we are getting older and there's a new generation coming in. It was the case in 1996.  You have some players who have retired and once some players retire, the new generation comes in.  But we have lots of good players in Spain among the top 100. Regarding the second part of your question, regarding the Davis Cup, what do you think about it?  It depends on the captain.  I have already talked about it.  But I don't want to make any official statement.  We still have some time to make that decision.  And when time comes, the different players will be able to express themselves. We will have to make choices, but I can't tell you anything about it today.Q. You haven't played against Marin Cilic since 2010.  What do you think of this player?DAVID FERRER: Cilic is a totally different player.  If you compare the situation in 2010, he's made great strides, he's solid, consistent, regular.  At the start of the year, he didn't play because he was injured. But now he's in the groove.  He's at the top of his play.  I think that I will have to play some good tennis, but I need to make progress, especially on my forehand side.  I will have to dictate play and to take some initiatives.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT