ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2015
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  D. FERRER/D. Traver6-3, 6-2, 6-1THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.Q. You were running because the night is coming?DAVID FERRER: No, I wanted to dictate play with my own tempo, because when you're afraid of being late, you are not doing a good match.  So I wanted to finish my match earlier.  I remained calm, and I was just waiting for the ITF decision.  Delighted to have won my match today.Q. Another experience at the French Open.  You're almost through to the second week.  You still have a match to win.  Easy matches so far.  Does it help you?DAVID FERRER: Yes, it does help me.  Of course, I have not yet advanced to the second week, but it was a three-set win today and it's better.  Because when you win in three sets, you run less.Q. What do you think of today?  What would you do if you had played after Chardy's match?DAVID FERRER: I will have stepped on court later.  I would have practiced.  I watched the match between Nadal and Almagro, then took a nap, I prepared my racquets, I took a shower.  So you have to be busy.Q. You will be playing against Bolelli.  What do you think of Bolelli?DAVID FERRER: He won convincingly against Troicki.  Bolelli is playing very well.  He hits the ball very well, so I will have to be vigilant.  I shouldn't think that it's already a foregone conclusion against Bolelli.Q. Three Spaniards are still in the draw in the third round, and the last time it happened it was in 1996.  There are many Spanish players in the second round, Spanish players played against one another.  This has drawn our attention.  Why is it so?DAVID FERRER: There are different reasons for that.  Tommy Robredo was injured, Nicolas Almagro was, as well, very often off court. So for me this is a new trend this year with lots of Spaniards, but it's not really important.  You have lots of Spaniards in the top 100, lots of Spanish players put in a good showing on clay, and there were three Spanish players still in the draw, and that's great.  I hope that we will advance to the second week.THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.Q. What do you think about your game?  How do you feel?DAVID FERRER: I feel good.  I think it was a good match, consistent.  Happy because I am in third round.Q. So you are very strong on clay court, and also, what do you think about clay court in this year?DAVID FERRER: It's good, Roland Garros.  Always in Roland Garros the court, it's perfect conditions.  Maybe change the ball.  The ball is slower, but no problem.  It's okay.  It's fine.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT