ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2015
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  D. FERRER/L. Lacko  6-1, 6-3, 6-1    THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   Q.  Your 300th clay win today.  How important are these sorts of milestones to you?  DAVID FERRER: Well, is not important.  It's just a number. But of course, it's a lot of matches playing in clay court, and nothing else proud for that point.   Q.  You're 33 years old, I think.  That's the same as Federer.  He's often asked about is he thinking of retirement or how much longer he's going to play.  Do you ever think about that?  DAVID FERRER: I don't know.  Now I am in a good moment.  It might be four months it's okay. I began the season playing really well, winning a lot of matches, and I am only focusing the moment.  I don't know when I will finish my career.  The most important, it's my fitness.  Don't have important injuries.  Looking forward.   Q.  Do you feel you're playing better now than you ever have?  DAVID FERRER: No, no.  I think in 2012 it was my best year.   THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.   Q.  Can you assess your match today?  DAVID FERRER: It was an easy match for me.  In the second set he served better.  It was a little bit more difficult in the second set. But I think that I controlled the match quite easily.  I think that he was not as successful as in the past.  I can't tell you much, it was a quick match.   Q.  With regard to Vilas, there is an investigation about him.  He said that he's No. 1.  DAVID FERRER: I'm not aware of that.   Q.  It was said that Vilas could be the first because of the number of points, but the ATP said that the ranking was established eight times a year, and Vilas went first in the ranking.  DAVID FERRER: I'm not aware of that.  I don't know if Vilas is an excellent player or not.  I don't know if he deserves to be No. 1.  He's an historic player, so whether he's the best player on clay court, it doesn't matter.  He will still be ranked a great player.   Q.  So back to the Argentine players, you have said that match against Del Potro was said to be one of the best of your career.  So what do you think of Del Potro with hindsight?  Because he tried to defeat you but he didn't manage to do so.  DAVID FERRER: Juan Martin, I think that he's in a tough situation at the present time.  Fortunately I didn't sustain severe injuries, and I would like to pay tribute to Juan Martin Del Potro.  He's mentally tough.  He's been off the court for the past two years, and that's really hard for the spectators, because they can't watch a formidable player.  It's even tougher for him, because he's a great sportsman.  He's a great athlete. So he's not able to play.  He's not able to compete.  So I think that it is very painful.  If I were to be in his boots, it would be very difficult for me.  I like him quite a lot.  He's a player that we desperately need, so I would like to encourage him.   Q.  I know that it's a little bit tough, but you played the Davis Cup with Spain.  Are you going to play the Davis Cup?  What is the situation like?  DAVID FERRER: We're going to meet in order to discuss the topic with the captain.  I don't know what the situation is at the present time, but we need to talk about it with the whole team. As far as I'm concerned, I will give my decision, and I will tell you what I think in due time.  If I tell you something now, if I spill the beans now, it wouldn't be appropriate.  So you will be aware of my decision in due time. Anyway, the Davis Cup is not just around the corner, so I can't give you an answer.  So I can't say yes or no.  I don't know exactly what I'm going to do as I speak now.   Q.  But you might take part in the Davis Cup?  DAVID FERRER: Of course.  I mean, I want to leave the door open for a match in the Davis Cup.   Q.  This is your 300th win here at Roland Garros.  It means that you're very solid on the surface.  DAVID FERRER: Yes, of course.  I have been playing on clay for quite a long time, and I like the surface a lot.  For me, it's less demanding for my body, and I feel really great on clay.   Q.  What about the climate?  Do you prefer when there's more sun?  DAVID FERRER: It depends on the opponent.  If I'm playing against a hard hitter or if I play a big server, I prefer this type of weather.  But when I play against a more solid player, I prefer when the conditions are faster.   Q.  You will play against Daniel Gimeno-Traver.  What do you think about that?  DAVID FERRER: It will be a tough match, because Daniel Gimeno-Traver has an excellent forehand.  He can deliver winners with his forehand.  He's brimming with confidence.  He is mentally strong, and I know that this match will be extremely tough.   Q.  The other day Federer said after his match that the court is very slow, that the balls are slow.  DAVID FERRER: Yes, I mean, the conditions of play are quite slow.  We are under the impression that the ball is hollow because the surface is very slow, as well.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT