QATAR EXXONMOBILE OPEN
January 10, 2015
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. FERRER/T. Berdych
  6‑4, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Very well done.   Were you pleased both with the performance and with the result?
DAVID FERRER:   Well, the performance, it was very good.   I think I began the match play and I receive doing very good my tactic. 
It really was close.   Always with Tomas Berdych I have to play my best tennis to beat him.   Well, I happy, because it never is easy begin the season winning one tournament, and I could win the tournament playing good tennis.

Q.   He had points, two points I think to get back to 5‑All, and then he had three points to go to one set all.   Were you particularly pleased with the way you played those points?
DAVID FERRER:   I think in important points I got a little bit lucky in some moments.   But anyway, I tried to be confidence in the bad moments, and when I could win the game with 5‑All, I played very good in that moment, no? 
It was important moment for him, and maybe Tomas lost concentration a little bit when he lost the three set points, no? 

Q.   How important was this win for your confidence ahead of the Australian Open?
DAVID FERRER:   Well, is very important because I could win one tournament, one ATP tournament.   And for me, all the ATP tournaments is important.   I have another one in my career. 
For me, this tournament is not a preparation for Australian Open.   Of course I am with confidence now because I win one tournament, but now I would like enjoy this moment and the next day's rest, practice maybe Thursday or Friday for be ready in Australian Open, no? 

Q.   He didn't lose his serve coming into the final, and then you break him right away.   Talk a little bit about that and how you handled his serve. 
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I don't know.   I was very focused before the match.   I was, you know, focused all thinking begin the match very aggressive.   I know that the first game I played unbelievable.   The first three or four games of the match maybe I did my best tennis this week. 
After that, Tomas, he was coming up, playing better with his shots and it was not easy, no, when I won the first set.   In the second one I think he got his options and maybe he was better than me. 

Q.   Are you going to Auckland for the tournament? 
DAVID FERRER:   Yes, I will go to Auckland but I will not play. 

Q.   Are you happy with your new coach? 
DAVID FERRER:   Yeah, sure.   Sure.   Of course I won one tournament with my new coach.   But anyway, we are close friends, and we hard work this preseason, so I think, both, we are happy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT