QATAR EXXONMOBILE OPEN
January 9, 2015
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. FERRER/I. Karlovic
  6‑7, 7‑6, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How difficult was it to maintain concentration against a guy who was serving so well for all that time?
DAVID FERRER:   It was very difficult, sure, because Ivo, he is serving unbelievable this week, no, first and second serve.   He surprise me with the second serve, no?   Because he was serving 119 with the second serve, and it was not easy to return him.
But, well, anyway, the key was in some points, in the close points.

Q.   No service breaks in the match.   It was a pretty tight and tense match.   What was it like being in the match?
DAVID FERRER:   It was a very mentality match.   Well, I think in the first set he was better than me.   He was more tense with my serve. 
In the second and the third, it was very, very, close, no?   I think in the second maybe I have more chance, and the third it was very close, no? 
I think I return the break in the tiebreak with one very difficult ball, and maybe in important moment I receive better than him, no? 

Q.   How do you maintain concentration, knowing that one shot can perhaps cost you the match?   Do you have to think in a certain kind of way?   How do you do it? 
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   I try always to be focused every point and be focused with to do the best one for this point. 
And today I think this match is very important, the concentration, more than the other ones.   Because with Ivo Karlovic, if you have one or two mistakes with my serve, I am pull out. 

Q.   Of all the big servers you have played against, where do you rate Ivo?   How good is his serve?
DAVID FERRER:   Well, is like a penalty.   You know, I play with receive to Karlovic.   With my serve I tried to play with a lot of percentage, don't serve with very power and play with my first serve.   I have I think good percentage.   So that point it was important for win today. 

Q.   You're going to play your first final here in Doha.   Are there a few things you need to change in your game?   How will you prepare this final? 
DAVID FERRER:   Well, this preseason I work a lot, hard work.   I had one month work with my new coach, and I think we improve some details in my tennis, like a slice or my serve. 
For tomorrow, well, now I want to rest and to do a massage with my physio and to be ready for tomorrow.   I will talk with my coach about my next opponent. 
Yesterday I think my opponent was Novak Djokovic, and it was surprise Ivo Karlovic.   So tomorrow I will see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT