BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 13, 2014
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. NISHIKORI/D. Ferrer
  4‑6, 6‑4, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   You've played here many times before.   How different is it being the alternate?
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I think very much is different.   The conditions are different. 
Today I think began playing very good, very good level without mistakes in my serve in first.   In the second set, the first games, it was not easy. 
Anyway, Kei, he's playing very good.   He's playing with very confidence with his game.   In the third set, I was a little bit tight, and he was better.   The key, he was better. 

Q.   You've spent a lot of time on court against Kei recently.   How impressed are you with his play?   What particularly do you think are his weapons?
DAVID FERRER:   About Kei? 

Q.   Yes. 
DAVID FERRER:   Well, he improve his serve and, of course, his fitness.   I think the key this year, Kei, his fitness.   He's playing with a very good level a long time. 

Q.   How long did you have to prepare?
DAVID FERRER:   Well, last week I was holidays.   I came here Sunday.   So I practice four days. 

Q.   When did you find out you were actually going to be playing today?
DAVID FERRER:   I was okay.   I practice these four days.   My condition, it was perfect for play today against Kei.   Nothing else, no? 
Anyway, Kei was better. 

Q.   You pulled out of the Indian Champions League with a back injury.   By taking the court today, was that a risk at all for your back?
DAVID FERRER:   Yeah.   Anyway, I would like to rest because I had some problems this year in my back.   I come back home. 

Q.   All the matches have been in two sets.   Everybody was saying, At least if Ferrer was around, we would see three sets, which happened.   How did you feel about it?   Do you have a cold or a sore throat? 
DAVID FERRER:   No, I am okay.   I was great.   Nothing else.   I was only focus with my match.   When I won the first set, I tried to be focused.   But, well, of course I cannot play the first set similar like the other two. 

Q.   Could you talk a little bit about your decision to change coaches and how things are going with your new coach?
DAVID FERRER:   Well, is difficult explain to you in English (laughter). 
I think, well, this year after US Open I stop with Jose Altur.   My personal relation with him, it was perfect, but professional I think we have different things about tennis.   Just for that, I change, no? 
Paco Fogues is my new coach.   I have a lot of confidence with him.   He's a good friend.   I practice a lot of years with him. 
The last year when I finish the 21 of December with Javier Piles, my first option was Paco Fogues, but Paco Fogues was practicing with Dani Gimeno.   I have no chance to practice with him. 
Now I am happy because I think is the best coach I can have. 

Q.   Did you ever consider not coming here as an alternate?   A player like Dimitrov said he didn't want to come here and be waiting around.   Did you ever feel like that?
DAVID FERRER:   I cannot talk about the other players.   I was one out for play here.   It was a good idea, no, because I can play one match in London.   It was good. 
Anyway, it was perfect if I win the match, but it's not easy.   Here are the best players of the world. 

Q.   In an interview, Oscar Hernandez said he was 100% sure there was match fixing in challenger and future events, that the ATP is dirty.   Do you think he has any legitimate reason saying that?   What do you think is the best way to tackle this problem?
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   I am not playing futures. 
That true?   I don't know.   I can't tell nothing but that because I don't know. 

Q.   Does it worry you?
DAVID FERRER:   Of course.   It's not a good point.   It's bad for the tennis.   But I don't know.   If Hernandez, he knows that, he has to denounce that things, no? 

Q.   How confident are you that you can come back to the O2 next year to play the Finals?
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   Now I would like to rest.   I would like to be at home one week on holidays and to prepare my next year, no, in Australia. 
Of course, my goal is to be here again with the best players of the world.   But we have to go step by step. 

Q.   Kei Nishikori has a good record in the final set, winning more than 90%.   Can you talk about why he always comes back in the final set. 
DAVID FERRER:   I say before, I think Kei, he improve a lot his game.   He's a very great player.   He has a very good future.   I think he will be a lot of years in the top 10 for sure.   Depends of his injuries. 
But he has everything for to be there with the top. 

Q.   Did you consider not playing here at all because of your back problem? 
DAVID FERRER:   No.   It's an articular problem.   When I come here, I know if I have chance to play, I play. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT