WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 17, 2014
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. FEDERER/D. Ferrer
  6‑3, 1‑6, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Congratulations on a solid week of play this week. 
DAVID FERRER:   Thank you.

Q.   You really started to turn things around in the second set.   Held off a number of break points and then played an exceptional second set.   What was working for you in the second set?
DAVID FERRER:   I think I did a first good set also.   Was I just did two double faults.   After that, I had three or four balls for break with 5‑3.
I didn't make it, and, well, I think the first and second set I did a good game, good match. 
The third set he serve unbelievable.   You know, he play really good and was a little bit tired. 
But anyway, with Roger it's difficult, no?   I need to play very consistent all the match. 

Q.   Do you think playing back‑to‑back 1000s as opposed to a major where you've got some rest ‑‑ I know it's best of five, but you have some extra days of rest.   Canada and then here was a very tough field playing every day. 
DAVID FERRER:   Yes, I think both matches I play good.   In Toronto I had a good match and also here.   Anyway, Roger, he was better, but I was close.   I think so. 
I am happy with my game these two weeks.   I did quarterfinal, final, so now I want to rest few days and will be in these conditions at the US Open. 

Q.   Are you feeling confident going into the US Open then?
DAVID FERRER:   Yeah, of course I am with confidence.   I did quarterfinal in Toronto and final here playing well every day.   I was playing better.   Well, of course in US Open is going to be best‑of‑five sets and the balls and the conditions will be different.
But I am happy with myself.

Q.   You won a set from him last week; another today.   As you mentioned, you played a very good first set as well.   You feel much closer to finally being able to get him? 
DAVID FERRER:   In US Open? 

Q.   No, the next time you play him. 
DAVID FERRER:   Well, the next time I don't know.   I will try to do my best always and I will try to play similar like today or in Toronto for beat him.
But with Roger, Rafael, and Novak Djokovic, sometimes not the depends of me; depends of them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT