WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 16, 2014
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. FERRER/J. Benneteau
  6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Very clean match from you today.   No double faults.   69% first serve percent.   What worked for you out there today compared to other matches?
DAVID FERRER:   Yeah, really my first serve work all the both sets.   Well, the first games I began not so good with a little bit mistakes.   But anyway, when I did the break in the first set with 3‑2 I play better, no, more quiet, without mistakes.
I receive very good the first and second set. 

Q.   This hasn't been the best part of the season for you in the past, the US Open Series.   Why do you think this year has been a little better?
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   I don't know.   Of course I am in a good moment.   I am in my first final this year in Master 1000, so I'm happy for that point. 
Well, nothing else, no?   Just step by step and focus for tomorrow. 

Q.   Tomorrow either Federer or Raonic.   Talk about each of them. 
DAVID FERRER:   Well, you know, with Roger, I never beaten him, so of course I prefer Milos.   It's normal. 
Anyway, tomorrow it's one important final for me.   No matter if I play with Milos or Federer, it will be playing my best tennis for win the match. 

Q.   How important is this week then for you to get some confidence going for the US Open?
DAVID FERRER:   It's important because I'm in the final.   I don't care the US Open in these moments.   US Open is going to be in two weeks or one week.
This tournament is very important for me and for everybody because.   Is one Master 1000.   So I don't think the tennis players are thinking about US Open when we are playing one tournament, no, one important tournament. 

Q.   You had a tough time in finals.   Last I think nine finals you played I think you lost eight of them.   What's been the challenging part about finals for you recently? 
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   I don't know.   It's one point, but I don't know.   Anyway, I try to do my best the last final.   I lost 7‑6 in the third set.   Well, tomorrow I am in one final again.   I will have another opportunity for win one tournament. 
So don't worry, no?   I will not stop trying.

Q.   Today was the tenth time you played Julien, and he got you four times prior to that.   What were you able to not allow him to do today that he had success against you with in the past?
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   You know, every match is different, and today the conditions is different than last times.   I think tactic, I know how I have to play with him.   Maybe today he didn't play his best match.   He did a very good week, a very great week, but today maybe he had a little bit mistakes.
Maybe was his first semifinal in one Master 1000.   Maybe experience was the key in those moments, no? 

Q.   Do you feel like this is some of the best tennis you've played this year? 
DAVID FERRER:   No.   No, I don't think so.   I think my best tennis was maybe this year in clay court in Rome, Madrid, or Roland Garros, some matches in Roland Garros or Monte‑Carlo. 
I play good this week; the last week also with Roger Federer I did a good game.   These three matches I was correct.

Q.   Big advantage for you to play the day match today?   The second semifinal is not until 9:00. 
DAVID FERRER:   Oh, I don't know.   I don't know.   I am happy because I am in the final and I don't have to play today.   But, well, depends the match of tonight.
I think, you know, the match, Roger and Raonic, is going to be quickly, no, because Raonic has a very good serve.   It's not going to be a lot of rallies like yesterday, Murray and Roger. 

Q.   Sort of a different question:   Have you ever thought about how difficult it may be to be a line judge? 
DAVID FERRER:   Line judge? 

Q.   Like an official who calls in and out for the lines on the court. 
DAVID FERRER:   Well, is difficult, sure, because the ball is faster and you know now that the tennis player is serving very faster and every year is more faster.
But, well, we have the Hawk‑Eye and we have a lot of line judge for help to us.   I think sometimes is difficult, but with the Hawk‑Eye it's easier for everybody. 

Q.   Do you think the speed of the court last week was quicker or was this week quicker?
DAVID FERRER:   Similar.   I think is similar.   I don't know last year because last year I play so bad.

Q.   No, last week. 
DAVID FERRER:   Ah, last week.   Last week it was faster.   It was faster than this one, yeah, sure. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT