WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 15, 2014
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. FERRER/T. Robredo
  6‑3, 3‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Congratulations.   Tough match against Tommy.   Talk about how you were able to win that third set. 
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I think yes, of course it was tough, no?   I think the first and part of the second set I was playing better than him.
In the second, that game I serve very bad.   I had three, four or six games serving very bad.   I have my chance also, but Tommy, he take the chance.
In the third maybe the first games he was better than me.   He had chance to break up.   And, well, finally it was really close in the third set, and finally when I did the break in the last game I can win. 

Q.   Is it tough playing another Spaniard like that?   You must know each other's games pretty well. 
DAVID FERRER:   Well, it's not easy play with one friend, but, well, I think Tommy and me, we played a lot of times in our career.
He's won much more about our career, no, and nothing else.   I am happy because I won the match.   I'm sorry for Tommy.   Best luck for the next tournaments. 

Q.   You have a big opportunity tomorrow. 
DAVID FERRER:   Yeah, I don't know.   I will try to do my best for win tomorrow against Benneteau.   I will be focus with my game.   Now I would like to rest and enjoy this moment.   Tomorrow we will see.

Q.   Talking about your overall career, what are your most favorite moments of playing Davis Cup for Spain? 
DAVID FERRER:   My favorite moment?   Well, of course when we won in Seville against Argentina, no? 
I won Del Potro second match in fifth sets.   You know, we was very emotion.   I think my best emotions was in Davis Cup. 

Q.   In all of tennis, your whole career?
DAVID FERRER:   Yeah, I think so.   I think so.   You know, play for your country is different.   (Mobile phone disturbance.) 
Sorry, because is my mom.   She's calling, David, David.   (Smiling.)
Yeah, sure, sure.   You know, when I won Paris Bercy was my first title, Masters 1000.   It was very excited, but it's not compare about Davis Cup.
Now in these moments I am 32 years old and my feeling is not the same.   And my physic, is not easy play all the ties in Davis Cup, no? 
I need to recovery more than when I have 25 years.

Q.   If they said Davis Cup could be only every other year, you know, maybe just like one year of Davis Cup and one year not, would be okay with that?
DAVID FERRER:   Yeah, sure, because play every year is very difficult for the tennis players, no?   The calendar is very close.   It's not easy for me.   It's a mistake play every year. 

Q.   How big an advantage is it for you tomorrow if you do make the final to be in the earlier semifinal?   There is one at 3:00, and the next one is at 9:00 p.m.   You could have six more hours. 
DAVID FERRER:   Don't worry, if I am in the final I don't mind play after tomorrow at 9 p.m.   The condition is different, no?   Because yesterday played night match and the court is slower. 
But don't worry, no?   It's impossible always play night matches.   The first match I played at 3:00 yesterday night match, and today at 3:00.   I had the chance play both conditions.

Q.   Do you like the slower or faster hard courts?
DAVID FERRER:   Well, depends of the moment, but I prefer a slower court.   This court is faster and ‑ maybe not the court.   Maybe the ball is difficult to control, no? 
Yeah.

Q.   Because the ball that's used here in Cincinnati is different than the ball in New York, would you prefer if it was always in Toronto and then here?
DAVID FERRER:   Yes, I prefer the same ball.   If we are playing Toronto, Cincinnati, and after we are going to play in US Open, a Grand Slam, I don't know why. 
Well, it's the rules.   I think the sponsor is the most important.   Is the difference ATP and ITF.   You know, it's different organization and is about that.
But it's important for the players and for both organization, ITF and ATP, help to the players, no?   One of the things to help the players is play with the same balls, no? 

Q.   How long does it take you when you get to a tournament to get used to the ball change? 
DAVID FERRER:   Three or four days.   I think so, no?   I will have time, because after here I am going to rest few days, and Wednesday or Tuesday or Thursday I'm going to practice.
So I hope to be ready. 

Q.   The last seven times you played have been on clay.   How much does you strategy change when it moves to a hard court? 
DAVID FERRER:   (Through translation.)   No, I play with him in hard court, sure.

Q.   But the last seven times you played it was on clay.   How much does your strategy change from clay to hard? 
DAVID FERRER:   No, in Valencia in hard court, and Kuala Lumpur. 

Q.   Sorry.   But in general how much does strategy...
DAVID FERRER:   You know, every match is different.   The last matches I played him in indoor courts and now we are going to play outside court.
You know, we are different players than last year.   He is playing with more confidence with his game.   This week he won very good matches.   Today I saw the match against Wawrinka and he served very good.   He has a very good backhand.
So, well, nothing else, no?   I am try to do my best.   I will try a tactic for win Benneteau, no, and tomorrow I will see. 

Q.   You have a fairly new coach after a long‑time coach.   Can you talk about how you decided to make a change and how that's working. 
DAVID FERRER:   Well, we decide because Javier and me, we were a lot of years and, well, we think‑ both, not just me‑ it's time to change.   Nothing else, no? 
I appreciate a lot of Javi because he help me a lot.   For him I am tennis player because he help me a lot.   But, well, it's not easy, no, begin with one coach the career and finish with him. 
We practice I think 15 or 16 years together.   You know, it was time to change. 

Q.   How is the new team?
DAVID FERRER:   I am okay.   Well, really I didn't change a lot my team, no?   I change only the coach, because Rafael is my physio, and also help me some tactics in tennis.   Help me when I was 18 years, no? 
My fitness is the same.   Manager is the same when I was 18 or 20 years old.   So I only change one person. 

Q.   Just back to the balls that you were talking about before.   Could you tell us a little bit about how they're different between here and the US Open?   Are they heavier?   Lighter? 
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I cannot explain because, you know, I didn't play with the ball of US Open this year so I don't know.   It's going to be Wilson ball, but I don't know how is the ball.
I can talk about this ball.   This ball is difficult to control.   It's soft and light. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT