ROLAND GARROS
June 4, 2014
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. NADAL/D. Ferrer
      4‑6, 6‑4, 6‑0, 6‑1

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   Bad luck today.   Like we saw in the previous matches like you're not able to take a set off Rafa.   This year, like you won the first set and it was very close, like you were one set all.   And like could you just tell us what happened after that?
    DAVID FERRER:   Well, I think it was not a good match with both players.   We did a lot of mistakes, first and second set.   I lost the second set. 
    In the third I lost my concentration, my focus.   I did a lot of mistakes.   It was my fault. 
    Anyway, Rafael, in the third and the fourth he played better and did less mistakes. 
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Spanish. 

Q.   During the match you said you didn't know where you were literally.   You said you lost your north.   Does that mean that you were really angry because you were making mistakes? 
    DAVID FERRER:   Well, yeah, that's true.   Today I was not good enough for this match.   I lost my focus.   I was too slow, and I think I didn't play the game of a top 10.   This is why I'm sad.   It's my attitude, my behavior on the court.
    But what should I do?   I should perhaps apologize for all those who watched me play.   Well, you know, when Rafael plays he usually plays better than I do, but mentally I was not really ready.   That's all I can say.

Q.   Technically, could you perhaps analyze what's happened and why there was such a turnaround during the match?
    DAVID FERRER:   Well, at the beginning there was a lot of wind, and therefore both of us made many mistakes.   It wasn't that good as a match, given the players that we are. 
    The court was slow.   Rafael started playing a lot better, making fewer mistakes, and then it's like I threw in the towel.
    I don't usually do this, but I thought, I'm not going to be able to come back into the match.   I thought, No, no, not against Rafa.   He's such good a player.

Q.   You're saying that the court is slow, but others said it was very fast and therefore it would be good for you. 
    DAVID FERRER:   Well, that's true.   It was sunny, and therefore when it's sunny it's a bit faster.   That's good for me.   I have some type of advantage.
    But then afterwards, you know, with the rain and the darkness, it's much more complicated.
    And also, I made many mistakes.   I made many mistakes on my first serves.

Q.   Is it very difficult because you won the first set and maybe you thought you would win, and then all of a sudden you fell down? 
    DAVID FERRER:   Well, no.   It's a bit strange.   You know, I was up a set.   I had won the first set.   There was less pressure on me.   Then it turned around.   That's the way it is.

Q.   Now what about grass, the grass season?   I suppose you're going to rest a little before that. 
    DAVID FERRER:   Yes.   I'm going to take a rest, and then I'm going to go to Wimbledon.   I'll play the whole season on grass.

Q.   I suppose it was very frustrating because you couldn't win the second set.   Is this what weighed on you?   Because usually you're such a warrior, such a fighter.   Is it because you lost the second set?
    DAVID FERRER:   Well, no.   I wouldn't even use the word "frustration," you see.   What I missed is perhaps strength or the appetite to win and the drive.   I lost my focus, and then I made so many mistakes.
    Well, of course everybody can make mistakes, but today... 
    The third set is something I'd like to forget.

Q.   I would like to ask you something.   Well, you have lost rather quickly and you lost your focus.   Is it because you realized that against Rafa there is not much you can do?
    DAVID FERRER:   No, not at all.   Well, look at what I did at Monte‑Carlo; I won.   I played many quarterfinals during my career as a tennis player, so I don't really know what happened today.
    It wasn't my day.   A bit of a strange day, an odd day.   I hope it's not going to happen again.

Q.   What do you think about Rafa?
    DAVID FERRER:   Well, at the beginning he didn't really play well, but then afterwards he improved his game, and I think he's going to play a lot better next match.

Q.   There are still four players for the semis.   Well, I know it's off the cuff, but would you say that Rafa is going to reign again this year?
    DAVID FERRER:   Well, you know, Rafa and Djokovic are still the two favorites, but let's not forget about Murray.   He's playing excellent tennis.   He has many qualities and skills on clay. 
    However, I think that Rafa is the favorite.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT