MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 9, 2014
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. FERRER/E. Gulbis
  7‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Spanish, please.   
   
 Q.   You did well with Isner.   Today's match was more equal?  
DAVID FERRER:   Yeah, yeah, these two matches I've been playing really well.   Tennistically talking, I can bring a lot of intensity.   I'm happy because of the level I've been showing.  
After the first match this week, I had some bad‑‑ well, I was a little bit nervous.   In Monte‑Carlo I had good feelings.   This week I have had those good feelings once again.  
   
 Q.   Does this give you confidence?   We're already in the semifinals.   
DAVID FERRER:   Well, it gave me confidence because I made it to the semifinals.   Then I have a match against Nishikori or Feliciano.   I always said, and I'll repeat it again:   I'm not thinking of wining the title.  
I'm thinking of doing things properly to play as I did today tomorrow.   Tomorrow is the day I need to have the same attitude and intensity in my legs as I've had today.  
   
 Q.   If you had to choose between both of them, perhaps Nishikori's game is similar to your game; Feliciano is completely.   
DAVID FERRER:   Yeah, Nishikori is a player that has a lot of confidence in his game.   Feli, this week he's doing really well.   He's a player that plays well in altitude.   I know he likes to play in Madrid and he has the support of the crowd.  
We know that it's going to be a very tough match tomorrow.   Feli, it's always really tough to play against him.   We're talking about semifinals.   What can I ask for?   No matter who I play, I know it's going to be very tough because they're two completely different players.   It's going to be a tough match for sure.  
   
 Q.   For now, David, three Spanish players are going to the semifinal.   What do you think?  
DAVID FERRER:   It will be something historic, right, in a Masters 1000, something really big?   Roberto has done a really good tournament.   He's a player that has a lot of talent.   Feliciano in big tournaments, he always plays very well.   
So it's going to be historical.   It'll be a big triumph for Spanish sport.   
   
 Q.   And having such a great day today, how do you explain that none of those days the court was completely full?   
DAVID FERRER:   Well, you know, I don't know.   Perhaps it's a little bit of everything.   The crisis, financial crisis.   In the end, this is just a sport and it's a hobby for people.  
If they cannot afford it, looking at how the country is, I can perfectly understand it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT