MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 8, 2014
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. FERRER/J. Isner
  6‑4, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Spanish, please. 

Q.   Congratulations, David.   Feelings?   How did you feel out there?
DAVID FERRER:   Good, good.   I felt pretty well, much better than the first day.   Obviously it was a completely different game.   It was completely extreme.
But I think I answered pretty well.   I felt very regular, and I'm very happy because of those two sets.

Q.   Now you have to play against Gulbis.   Do you feel comfortable with these opponents here in Madrid? 
DAVID FERRER:   He's a really great player.   He's an irregular player, but when he's playing well he can beat the best ones.
That's what he's been doing this year.   He's been more regular than ever before, and I have to play very constant, as I did today, to be able to have possibilities.
I have to know that Gulbis will have really good moments.   I have to accept that and take the moments in which he has a little bit more doubts. 

Q.   Today you started playing pretty late.   How do you feel about that?   Is it very strange for you, and do you prefer to play at another time?   Tomorrow it's late, too. 
DAVID FERRER:   Well, you know, it's what we have.   I never complain about the schedule.   That's why the tournament choose this way.   In Madrid, Rome tournament, it's just a tennis court.   It's the same thing for me or my opponent.
I see it from the opposite side.   I played late.   The court was a little bit slower.   So for someone like Isner who serves well, look, it's better for me. 

Q.   You know, I see that you were doing really well returning his serves.   Have you changed something, the nerves for example?
DAVID FERRER:   Yeah, the first match I was really nervous.   There was a lot of tension out there.   I knew that I could win or lose, but I had to change my attitude.   I had to change that.
I had to be a little bit more calm.   Well, finally, today I just wanted to do the things right. 

Q.   Talking about the returning of the serves, were you more concentrated today than with Albert Ramos? 
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I was a little bit more focused, because you know if you do a break you have a lot of possibilities to win the set.   So I didn't have a choice.   With Albert it was different.
You know, talking about Isner or Karlovic, when you play against a lot of players you have pretty long rallies, but today I had to be focused.   I knew the break points, I had to go for them, especially if I could return his serve. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT