MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 6, 2014
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. FERRER/A. Ramos
  7‑6, 5‑7, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Spanish, please.   
   
 Q.   Hello David.   I wanted you to evaluate how did you see the match, and especially those up and downs that you had.   Did they generate more doubts, or the fact that you won the match, does it build confidence?  
DAVID FERRER:   Whenever you win your day changes a lot.   Whenever you win you see the positive things.   In that aspect, it's been a match, as you said, with up and downs.  
Well, my next match I'll try to be okay so that the same thing doesn't happen again.  
   
 Q.   How did you see the draw?   Talk about the draw without Djokovic or Federer.   
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   I'm going to play against Isner or Matosevic, and after that I don't know.   I have a day off.   I'll try to recover.   
On Thursday I will have to focus with whoever I play and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   I wanted to ask you about the one thing you said at the end of the second set.   You were saying that you had lost the motivation for this sport.   Have these things ever happened to you before?  
DAVID FERRER:   No, no.   You say things when you're nervous in the match that you don't feel.   You can write a book about a match.  
But, no.   
   
 Q.   You had been two weeks without playing and you had an opponent that was answering all the balls, which makes you out of rhythm.   Was that a bad thing?  
DAVID FERRER:   No.   All the opponents are really good, and Albert was playing very well.   He wasn't missing a lot of balls and it was really tough for me.   He did a good match.   
Well, no, it's not an excuse.   Of course, even if I win or lose, that's what we have out there.   You simply have to adapt to all the circumstances.   It's not the first time I play here in Madrid and with altitude.   
It's been already a couple of years that I made it to the second round playing better tennis than today.  
   
 Q.   (In English.)   Federer won't play this week in Madrid.   I would like to know if it can be affected for Roland Garros.   
DAVID FERRER:   (In English.)   I don't know.   You have to ask to him.  
   
 Q.   (In English.)   But you have experience.   If he doesn't play this week or next week you know he will be in it good shape or not?  
DAVID FERRER:   (In English.)   He will have chance, sure.   He's one of the best players of the world.   So if he doesn't play one tournament, it's not‑‑ don't care, no?   
THE MODERATOR:   Spanish questions.  
   
 Q.   You were talking about altitude and that the ball flies faster.   How does it affect you?   Do you like it or not?  
DAVID FERRER:   Well, here in Madrid I've been playing always pretty good.   What happens is that the first day is not easy, especially when you have to play in competition like here in Madrid.   
It's the same for everyone.   Of course you have to accept it.   You miss more, but that's all.   
   
 Q.   After losing in Barcelona, was this victory really important for you or not?  
DAVID FERRER:   Well, it was important because it's always important to go to the next round.   You know, I've always been a regular player, very consistent.   This year it's not a bad year for me.   I am No. 7 in the race, I think.   
Tennistically talking I've had ups and downs.   What's important is to finish the match properly.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT