MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 4, 2014
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Spanish.   
   
 Q.   You come here to Madrid after Barcelona.   The second year that you don't feel properly over there.   Do you think it's due to some circumstances or just bad luck or whatever?   
DAVID FERRER:   No, no, not bad luck or any circumstance at all.   You know, it's simply I didn't play properly during the last two years.   There is no other possible explanation.  
I made it to four finals over there, so I also played really good tennis in the past in Barcelona.   This year it's true that it was a little bit of deception because I have been playing well in Monte‑Carlo, and just didn't play well that day.  
I wasn't feeling well.   
   
 Q.   I wanted to ask you how you are physically?   Are looking forward to a tournament like this?   
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I am now pretty well.   I feel well.   In Madrid, we play to three sets.   Grand Slams always more complicated because we play to five sets.   Playing to three sets, it's always easier.   
   
 Q.   Rafa was just saying that the normal is not to win so many years in a row.   That sometimes you have to lose.   Based on your experience in the tour, do you think it's opening?   Do you think things are getting more equal, even in the tournaments?   
DAVID FERRER:   Well, you know, it's clear that this year Wawrinka has gone a step forward.   He has surprised all of us winning Grand Slam and Monte‑Carlo playing really good tennis.  
But even though, I think that Novak, Rafa, and Roger are in front in the race.   
Perhaps Andy has not started as well as he wanted to, but we will see what happens.   
Now we have the clay court.   
Afterwards we have grass where he feels pretty well.   We still have a lot of tournament in front of us.  
I think that Novak, Rafa, and Roger this year will still be up there in the thrown, if you want to say it that way.   
   
 Q.   Nadal was saying that a defeat generates doubts.   Does it generate doubts or more will towards the next tournament?  
DAVID FERRER:   Both things.   I'm not going to tell you it doesn't generate doubts.   It's true.   It's true afterwards you're a little bit more careful and try to be more prepared for the next one, trying to focus a little bit more.  
When I've had defeats, what I've tried to do is work a little bit better, a little bit more, try to be more focused so this the it doesn't happen again.  
I just try to learn from what is happening in that match so it doesn't occur another time.   
   
 Q.   I just want to ask you a questions about the past four months of the season.   You started with Jose Altur.   Are you happy about it?   What are your feelings?  
DAVID FERRER:   Yeah, yeah, you know, I'm feeling pretty happy with Jose.   We knew each other from before, but maybe we hadn't been traveling so often as now.   I'm very happy with him and with the whole team.   Not only tennisstically talking, but on a personal level.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English.  
   
 Q.   Looking at the draw, what do you think about it?  
DAVID FERRER:   I saw only my ‑‑ well, of course I look the draw, but I know I have to play against Mahut or Albert Ramos.   I am only focus with my next match.  
After that, I don't know who I have to play.   I think John Isner is there, Kohlschreiber.   But I don't care, no.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT