MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 18, 2014
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. FERRER/R. Nadal
  7‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   You won so many things, so many important matches in your career.   In your personal ranking, this match, which level is it?  
DAVID FERRER:   No, is normal.   Is quarterfinal.   Any final is more important than today.   
Of course, important because I am in a semifinal of a Masters 1000.   For me it's only one match in my career.   Of course is not the most important.   
   
 Q.   Is it special because you beat Rafa?   You had so many battles against him.   
DAVID FERRER:   Special, no.   But last time I beat Rafael in clay court was 10 years ago.   I had to wait 10 years to beat him in clay court (smiling).   
But, anyways, is not much.   I happy because I am in semifinal and because I am playing very good this week, no?   Maybe this week, it was my best week in this season.   
   
 Q.   Is that in the back of your mind when you play someone and you beat him only 10 years ago?  
DAVID FERRER:   No, of course it's not.   I tried to do my best every point.   But 5‑2, Rafael played more aggressive and nothing else, no?   
With 5‑4, you know, of course I was nervous.   But all the players, we were nervous when we have the game to win the match.   
   
 Q.   There was a moment in history to beat Sampras on grass in Wimbledon was the biggest upset, then it was to beat Federer on grass.   To beat Nadal on clay is the biggest upset that can happen today in the tennis world?  
DAVID FERRER:   No, of course not.   
   
 Q.   Which is the biggest upset?  
DAVID FERRER:   Win one final of a Grand Slam, but not one quarterfinal.   Of course, Rafael is difficult beat him in clay court, but not only in clay court, in all the surfaces.   
He's not a machine, no?   Sometimes he can play not so good always.   Well, maybe today he doesn't play his best tennis, and I played very good.   
   
 Q.   For you what was the key of the match?   
DAVID FERRER:   Well, of course the first set, it was very close.   It was long rallies.   I played very good tactic with my forehand, my forehand to his backhand.   In important moments I did good winners changing the ball to his forehand.   
   
 Q.   Rafael said he was unable to find his intensity.   Did you sense he was not at his highest level?  
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   I don't know.   Myself, it was a very tough match.   I had to play very consistent all the match to beat him.   
I don't know his sensations about him.   
   
 Q.   What will be the keys against Wawrinka tomorrow?   
DAVID FERRER:   Well, it's going to be tough match, sure.   Stan, he's playing unbelievable this season with very power his shots.   I have to play similar like today or yesterday for have a chance, consistent.   I'll be doing my game, nothing special, no?   
   
 Q.   Last year you were two points from winning him, then in Rome.   Today were you thinking, I must be careful, or you were not thinking at all?  
DAVID FERRER:   I wasn't thinking nothing.   Only was focusing in myself.   
Well, last year...   Every day is different, different sensation.   Of course I'm not thinking the last times when I play with Rafael in clay court.   
   
 Q.   Your control now of your words or sensation is because you have to play another match or were you jumping in the locker room?  
DAVID FERRER:   No.   I'm okay.   I'm in a semifinal.   I not won a Grand Slam.   Of course, I am happy.   When I won the match, you know, I have respect for Rafael.   
It's quarterfinal to semifinal, I don't won Monte‑Carlo.   Of course, if I won Monte‑Carlo, of course I was on the floor, is true (laughter).   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT