AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2014
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. FERRER/J. Chardy
  6‑2, 7‑6, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How important is that game in the second set where you saved three set points?
DAVID FERRER:   Well, was the key, no, when I won the second set.   Because the first set and part of the second I was playing well, without mistakes. 
But with 4‑3 in the second set I did a lot of mistakes.   And, well, 5‑3 for him.   I had set balls down.   Finally I could win the second set, and the third I played more quiet.   Was already difficult for him because he had a lot of chance in the second one. 
And, well, I am happy, no?   Maybe it was my best match this week.

Q.   Did you sense, once you won the second set, that perhaps it was really there for the taking?
DAVID FERRER:   No, no, I tried to play every point and to be focused every point.   But I know when I won the second set I was two sets up.   It was very hot, and I know it was difficult for him, no? 
The key was sure in the second set.

Q.   Can you talk us through what happened when you lost your serve to make it 5‑3 against you before giving your racquet a bit of punishment?
DAVID FERRER:   Nothing else.   I was angry in these moments, and I was a little bit nervous.

Q.   In the second set, do you put it down to lack of intensity from your side or loss of intensity, or did he play better?
DAVID FERRER:   I got lucky, I think, second set, when I won the second set, because, well, when I won the game at 5‑3, I had also 6‑5, 15‑40. 
He called one challenge and the ball, it was line, very close; in the tiebreak also with 5‑All I called challenge, and it was out. 
And, well, it's tennis, no?   In the important moments I got lucky and not him, no? 

Q.   You're known for your fitness, David.   What's it been like for you playing through this heat?
DAVID FERRER:   Yeah, I'm okay.   I won in three sets, so it's good. 
I know today maybe was the last day with this hot, with these conditions, and it's good for your body, because is very difficult for play with these conditions.

Q.   Are you happy with how you played in general?   You had a bit of a loss of intensity in the second set. 
DAVID FERRER:   Yes, I'm happy.   I won.   Of course I'm happy.   The first set, part of the second and the third set, I did a good game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT