BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 8, 2013
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WAWRINKA/D. Ferrer
  6‑7, 6‑4, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   It's been a fantastic year.   Could you sum up the match today and then sum up your wonderful year.   
DAVID FERRER:   The match, it was close I think.   I had my chance in the first games on the second set.   He serve very good in important moments.   
Well, when he make my break, I did a little mistakes.   Is difficult to recovery again with Stan because he serve very good all the match.   
And in the third, well, he play better, and my fitness was not good, no?   
And the year, it was very great.   Of course, I am happy with 2013.   I did my first final for Grand Slam.   Maybe I will finish the year No.3, No.4.   So it was great.   Of course, I'm happy.   
   
 Q.   You've played both players this week of tonight's match.   Could you give us your thoughts on the match tonight between Rafa and Berdych.   
DAVID FERRER:   Well, for me the favorite is Rafael.   But I don't know.   Tomas, he's serving very good.   But what can I said?   My favorite for to win tonight is Rafa.   
   
 Q.   We could see how frustrated you were out there, how much you wanted to win.   Were you thinking about the ranking points or just wanting to finish off your year with a win?   
DAVID FERRER:   No, of course, because I am a tennis player and always win is important to me.   Win as possible all the matches.   Just this.   
   
 Q.   You've had the experience of going from this tournament to Davis Cup finals, having a quick turnaround.   Some of the players this year are doing this as well.   Can you talk about what's needed to make the transition from the World Tour Finals to the Davis Cup final?  
DAVID FERRER:   For the next year?   
   
 Q.   You've done it in the past, going for next week to the Davis Cup final.   Tomas and Novak are doing that.   Is it difficult to do that?  
DAVID FERRER:   Yes, of course, it's difficult.   It's a very long season, and we have a lot of tournaments.   The top 10 players play a lot of matches.   Davis Cup is end of year.   Is not possible play always Davis Cup and the tournaments of ATP, no?   
Is that, because the top players not play all the ties of the Davis Cup.   
   
 Q.   You played seven tournaments in seven weeks.   You must be feeling very tired.   I wonder if you regret playing so many matches before coming to London.   
DAVID FERRER:   Well, what can I say?   I played a lot of tournaments.   I played seven tournaments seven weeks.   But, well, I know is a lot of tournaments.   But after last year I want to play in Stockholm because I didn't play too many matches.   Well, I did final in Stockholm, final Valencia, final Paris, and three matches here.   Is too much.   
But now I know it's too much.   Before, I never knows it.   I did three finals in three weeks, no?   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT