BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 5, 2013
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. NADAL/D. Ferrer
  6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   If you could give us your thoughts on today's match. 
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I think was not a good day.   Rafael play good.   He start very solid.   And me, well, in all the match I didn't had a good feeling, no?   I was a little bit tired.   I think it's like this.   It's difficult to explain because there is not a match, no? 

Q.   Rafa said he had to start very strong against you.   He feels like you press a lot more.   Do you feel you didn't really play your game in the beginning?
DAVID FERRER:   I didn't play my game in all the match, not only in the beginning of the set.   I did a lot of mistakes.   I was not comfortable at the court, no? 
For to win Rafael, I need to be more focus, more strong myself mentality.   And today I was not good myself, no, in my fitness, my mentality, my shots. 

Q.   How much of a disadvantage was it not having more than a day of rest and also to get adjusted to the stadium, the court surface, these kind of things?
DAVID FERRER:   No, I think the conditions is similar.   Is indoor court, hard court.   I am okay.   Maybe a little bit tired.   Is normal, no?   I played a lot of matches these seven weeks.   And now, you know, the quarterfinals, semifinal and final in Paris Bercy was very close matches, no?   I only have one day to rest. 
Is not excuse.   But, you know, for to beat these type of players, it's very important to rest and to be in perfect conditions, no? 

Q.   Both of you made more or less twice as many unforced errors as winners.   How did you find the speed of the court today? 
DAVID FERRER:   No, the court, it's okay.   It's the same like three or four years, no?   The court, it's slower than Paris Bercy, but it's okay for to play.   It's everything perfect. 

Q.   Given your results today, are you some way regretting your run in Bercy last week?   Consequently, are you happier that for next season there will be a new week between the two tournaments? 
DAVID FERRER:   Yeah, well, I don't care really.   For me the last year, it was the same like this year, no?   I won Paris Bercy and I played here very good.   I won two matches.   This year I did final, and today I didn't play a good match. 
Every year is different.   Every week is different sensations.   And just this, no?   Next week is going to be one week of rest.   Is okay.   But I prefer play everything and stop before the season, no, because the season is very long. 

Q.   Today the Court of Arbitration for Sport has decided to reduce the ban for a missed doping test for Mr. Troicki from 18 months to 12 months.   I would like to have your opinion on that decision?   Do you think it's still too harsh for a missed test?
DAVID FERRER:   I can't explain to you in English.   Is delicate.   Is talk about another person and is not my language, the English. 
If you want, I can explain in Spanish. 

Q.   Looking ahead to the rest of the tournament, what are your thoughts on the next opponents you could be facing?
DAVID FERRER:   Well, tomorrow I will play against Berdych, no?   I think so.   Now I want to rest.   I want to think about this match and nothing else. 
Tomorrow I think I will play better than today.   I think so.   I hope so.   I have to be positive.   It was a bad day, but it's good to have a bad day here in the round robin because I have one chance for tomorrow and on Friday.   Maybe tomorrow it's very important to win for my options to pass to semifinal. 

Q.   You said you're tired.   Do you think seven weeks in a row is maybe a bit too much? 
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know if one top 10 played seven weeks forward. 
Well, is not excuse.   I am tired.   But Rafael is also tired, and Djokovic.   You know, we are here because we played a lot of matches.   And, of course, we are tired. 
Today my feeling was not good, and nothing else.   Just this. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT