BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
November 3, 2013
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/D. Ferrer
  7‑5, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   David, tough loss today.   You were leading in both sets.   What do you think he did well against you today?   
DAVID FERRER:   I think it was a really good match, really good rallies.   I play maybe better than yesterday, and I lost.   
The key, well, with 5‑all in the second, I didn't serve so good.   With Nole, if I don't take chance, it's impossible to beat him.  
   
 Q.   I'm just wondering, with being up a break late in both sets, when you come to this moment, is it more mental for you, the occasion of being so close?  
DAVID FERRER:   No, I don't think so mental.   I did a mistakes, but because the match is close.   It's normal, no?   
With Nole or Rafa or Roger or Andy Murray, I don't have these breaks, no, in important moments.   
But anyway, I tried to fight again when I lost the game with 5‑4.   But Nole, in important moments he's better than me, no?   
   
 Q.   Obviously a lot of people think of you as being best on clay court.   Your best results are indoors the last few years.  
DAVID FERRER:   No, in all my career my best result are in indoor court.   I like play in clay court, but in indoor I have my best result.   In 2007 I did semifinal in US Open and final in the Master Cup.   
I like playing indoor court because the ball, it doesn't move and I am comfortable in this type of court.   
   
 Q.   Novak has been saying that he's trying to improve his game, especially at the net.   Is that something you noticed, and to what extent has he improved?  
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   I try every year to improve my game, to finish the points on the net, and with Novak, for to beat him I have to finish the points at the net and to play aggressive with my forehand.  
   
 Q.   How are you feeling in terms to fatigue and your fitness heading to London?   How are you going to approach London?   
DAVID FERRER:   Well, now I am really tired.   I think I played six tournaments in a row, so...  
But I am happy with my game, because the last through tournaments I did a good game and I am happy with myself.   Now I want to relax tonight to be with my team, and tomorrow I travel to London and to be focused with the next tournament, the last tournament of the season.  
Of course now I am tired because I played a lot of matches this year and I played a lot of tournaments these six weeks, but I am okay.   The results, it's good.   The results are good.   This is one point for to be with confidence next tournament.   
   
 Q.   You've got a very tough stretch of matches, starting with Rafa guaranteed in London.   Rafa, Djokovic, then Rafa again.   That's not normal.   How are you going to deal with that?   
DAVID FERRER:   Yes, but what can I do?   It's okay.   Tomorrow I will be in another tournament, another feelings and another sensation.   Of course it's difficult to play yesterday with Rafa, today with Nole, and tomorrow against Rafa, because I know I have to play very good for to win Rafa again.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT