BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
November 2, 2013
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. FERRER/R. Nadal
  6‑3, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   How big of a win is it for you to beat Rafa after so many losses?  
DAVID FERRER:   Sorry, can you repeat?   
   
 Q.   How big is it for you to finally beat Rafa after so many losses?  
DAVID FERRER:   Nothing else.   I'm very happy.   Final again.   I'm in the final again in Paris Bercy.   It was a very good match for me.   I play maybe my best match this season, very aggressive with my forehand and with my shots.   Nothing else.  
   
 Q.   What was the game plan today?  
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I think I know when I play with Rafa I have to play my best tennis.   And him, he hasn't to play his best tennis too, sure, no?   
I think this week I was playing very good.   Not the first match, but in the second and yesterday I was playing with really power with my forehand, and maybe the key was my serve.  
But everything, because today I played a very completely match.  
   
 Q.   Is there something magical in Paris?   Because you're back in top shape here in Paris after Roland Garros and Bercy again?  
DAVID FERRER:   Paris is very special for me, no?   I did my first final of a Grand Slam in Roland Garros; last year I won my first title Masters 1000; now I'm in the final again in Paris.   And also, I like a lot the city.   So, well.  
   
 Q.   What do you like here?  
DAVID FERRER:   Well, not for the tennis.   I like the city.   Everything.   Everything is impressive.   Everything.  
But of course I have‑‑ you know, is special also because my best result, it was here in Paris.  
   
 Q.   Tomorrow you have a new big challenge against Novak.   What do you think about this match?  
DAVID FERRER:   It's going to be very difficult match also.   I need to play very good for to win tomorrow.   I think too I have to play similar like today, no, and to take my chance if I will have one chance.  
   
 Q.   Before this match you had a pretty bad record against Rafa.   What do you think before going into this match?  
DAVID FERRER:   No, nothing else.   Nothing special.   Every match I try to do my best.   I try to fight.   Every match is different.  
The last time I played with Rafa it was in clay court, and six months later we played in indoor hard court.   Is very different.  
   
 Q.   We know very well Rafa.   Why do you think indoor hard court is maybe the worst surface for him?  
DAVID FERRER:   Oh, I don't know, but I think he won in all the surface, no?   He's No. 1 in the world.   To be No. 1 of the world, the player has to play very good in all the surface.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the way Rafa played today?   Do you feel something was off in his game?   What was it?   
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   Maybe the first set he played short with his shots, but in the second he tried to play more rallies with his shots.   
I think the key in the second set was when he had two or three break points and I did one ball baseline to the line and one net.   I had luck in the important moments.  
But this questions is for him, not for me.   
   
 Q.   But for you, how do you feel indoor?   Is it good surface?  
DAVID FERRER:   All my best results was in indoor courts, so I like to play in indoor courts, sure.  
   
 Q.   Why?  
DAVID FERRER:   Why?   I don't know, because my game, it's good for to play in indoor courts.   I play flat and I have a good receive.   I don't know why.   I like playing indoor courts.  
   
 Q.   Have you watched your draw at the Masters?   Is it tough to avoid thinking about next week?  
DAVID FERRER:   Well, in the Masters it's sure tough.   They are the best players in the world, best players of the world.   I will play with Rafael.   I understand this time the draw, because normally one seed play with the six, and this time they change.   I don't know why, because they should ‑‑the ATP should ask to the players.   They didn't ask to the players.  
So I don't like these rules, because I have to play with the No. 1 of the world, and depends ‑‑it's difficult to explain in English.   I will explain in Spanish later.   
But I don't like that rule.   I don't know why they changed the rule this year.   I don't understand.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT