CHINA OPEN
September 29, 2013
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English.   
First question.   
   
 Q.   How does it feel to come back to Beijing again with a new highest ranking in your career, as No.4 player in the world?   
DAVID FERRER:   Feel good.   Nice to come back to Beijing.   I am in a good moment.   It was a very good season, and nothing else.  
I will try to do my best for to play well here.   Last year I lost in first round.   I was retired because I had a stomach ache and nothing else, no?   
So nice to come back to Beijing.  
   
 Q.   In 2010 you were able to advance to the finals?   Do you have any strategy to repeat that this year?  
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I don't know.   It was three years ago.   2010 I lost with Nole.   I played pretty good tournament, but every year is different.   Every match the feeling going to be different.  
But I am okay.   The last week I didn't play so good, but I was practicing good.   Me, I always try to go step by step and to be focus for my first round.   
   
 Q.   Obviously you're in Novak's quarter.   You've also got a potential match up with Gasquet in the round of 16.   You had that great match at the US Open.   Just talk about that.   
DAVID FERRER:   About the match against Richard?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   Coming off that and the potential of playing him here again in the round of 16.   
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I don't know, because I am only focus with my first round against Pospisil.   I can't talk about Richard because I don't know if I will win of him or he will win also.   
   
 Q.   What do you expect to achieve in Beijing?   
DAVID FERRER:   I will answer the same:   my expect is to win the first round against Pospisil.   After the first round, I will see the next one if I win.   And if I lost, I don't have to say anything.  
   
 Q.   What do you think about the air today?   It's bad, the air condition.   Do you think it's a fact you play outdoor?   
DAVID FERRER:   Outdoor?   Well, every year is the same.   Nothing special.   It's not good for the life.   Pollution is not good for the world, but what can I say?   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese.   
   
 Q.   Andy Murray, Federer, and Djokovic and you are identified as the Top 4.   Some people comment that the top 4 don't appear anymore.   What's your comment on the Top 4?   As one of the Top 4, what's your comment on these Top 4 players in the world right now?   
DAVID FERRER:   Well, it's true I think it's the four are better than the other ones.   The last five or six or seven years they were in the final rounds, so the results are there.   
Me, now I am No.4 because Roger, he didn't play so many tournaments.   Now in these moments, Rafael for me is who is playing best than the other ones.   
   
 Q.   We know that a male player is engaged with his girlfriend.   Do you have a similar plan to get engaged and get married?  
DAVID FERRER:   No, no, no.   Congratulations to Nole because he will get married, but not me.   Not in this moments.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT