U.S. OPEN
September 4, 2013
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. GASQUET/D. Ferrer
      6‑3, 6‑1, 4‑6, 2‑6, 6‑3

    CHRIS WIDMAIER:   Before we open it up to formal questioning, we just wanted to do a very special presentation to David. 
    Last year the USTA began its US Open Sportsmanship Award.   Here in 2013, we're honored to be presenting the award to David. 
    During the presentation will be Todd Martin, who serves as the chairman of the selection committee, and obviously is a USTA board member. 
    Without further ado, 2013 US Open Sportsmanship Award is going to David Ferrer.
    (Applause.)
    Thank you very much.   We will make sure we get that to you. 
    DAVID FERRER:   Thank you. 
    CHRIS WIDMAIER:   Questions, please. 

Q.   It was a very, very hard‑fought match coming back from being down two sets, but in the end just wasn't enough.   If you can, just talk about the match and maybe where you came up short in that final set. 
    DAVID FERRER:   Well, I think Richard, he played very good game with his backhand, serving very good in important moments.   Maybe in the first and second set I didn't play so good.   I was a little bit tired. 
    But, anyway, I tried to do my best.   I fight until the last ball, and nothing else, no?   I think in the fifth set when he made me the break, I played I believe very bad in that game, no, with three mistakes easy. 
    But fifth set with one break down is difficult to come back again, because Richard is a top‑10 player.

Q.   You have had a lot of experience playing him before.   You have beaten him seven out of eight times. 
    DAVID FERRER:   No, I have a lot of experience, no, but I lost a little bit my focus in that moment and nothing else, no? 
    Next time I will try to be more focused, no?   I can't nothing to do.

Q.   You fought a lot of hard matches this week.   I know it's hard right after the match, but talk about the tournament as a whole and the positives you can take from it. 
    DAVID FERRER:   No, I am positive.   I think this month I played Montreal and Cincinnati and I played very bad and feeling bad.   I came here to NewYork playing better, no, than the first day of the month.
    I happy with my game.   In this tournament I improve, and nothing else, no?   Now I have time to rest, to be focused for the next tournaments in Asia, you know. 
    I have tough, important moments, and my goal is to improve my game.

Q.   You mentioned the focus and not feeling well on top of that.   Javier was not in your box.   What can you tell us about that?
    DAVID FERRER:   About?   No, because he had family problems.   He came to home.   But nothing else.

Q.   Did his father pass away?
    DAVID FERRER:   Yes.

Q.   Did that happen today or...   I know he's been ill. 
    DAVID FERRER:   It happened last week.   Yeah, when I played the first match against Kyrgios that night.

Q.   So you were playing this match with a heavy heart yourself?
    DAVID FERRER:   Well, I was with my physio, my manager, Albert Molina, so I have the support of them.

Q.   But still, did you think of him and have you been in touch with him?
    DAVID FERRER:   Yes, of course.   Of course.   I talk with him every day, yeah. 

Q.   Of the remaining players, who do you think is looking in best form in the tournament?
    DAVID FERRER:   I think Rafael or Novak Djokovic.   They are playing better than the other ones, but is not a secret (smiling). 

Q.   So those two you think are the likely finalists?
    DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   I don't know, but they are the favorite. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT