U.S. OPEN
August 26, 2013
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. FERRER/N. Kyrgios
  7‑5, 6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   For the match tonight, talk about your opponent.   Only 18 years old.   What do you make of his game?
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I think he's a very great player.   He has a really good serve, a very good forehand, and very good future. 
I like his game, no? 

Q.   With all of the traveling you do as a pro tennis player, when you do long flights to Asia or Australia, what do you find is the best way to get over jetlag?
DAVID FERRER:   It's for everybody.   If you stay four, five days before, you have chance for to be good in jetlag. 
Is difficult when one person is living in Australia, no, because they have to traveling a lot.   Is a very far way. 
But I don't know.   I don't have that problem. 

Q.   You've reached the quarterfinals or better in the last seven Grand Slams.   Do you feel that you're this close to actually winning one?
DAVID FERRER:   Is difficult.   I think every year is more difficult to win a Grand Slam.   Of course I am in a good moment.   I am top 10.   This season I've been very consistent, very regular, but I think for to win a Grand Slam in these moments is more difficult than when I had 27 or 28 years. 
Or last year.   I think last year was the best in my career playing tennis for sure.

Q.   You had some big losses to Rafa this year.   How difficult is it to get by not only Rafa the way he's playing now, but Andy is playing fantastic tennis, Novak... 
DAVID FERRER:   Roger, Novak, Rafa, Del Potro is coming back, Tomas Berdych, they are very great players.   But, of course, you know Rafael, Novak, Roger, and Andy Murray, they are better than the other ones. 
I think they have, you know, one arm more, no, one weapon more than the other ones. 

Q.   There is that gap that might exist between you and No.4.   There's some space you're not able to bridge?
DAVID FERRER:   No.   I think they are better than me.   That's only my opinion, no?   Maybe this year Roger, he doesn't play too many tournaments, and that's I think because I am now No.4 or was No.3.   I am very proud of that, but Roger is playing good again.   I saw him in Cincinnati, and he's coming back. 

Q.   Rafa says he's always looking to improve. 
DAVID FERRER:   Of course, every year can improve my game, no?   I trying to improve my game every year.   Of course, I am not the same player when I had 25 years because it's more difficult to recovery, physic recovery. 
You know, I have more experience and more quiet in the bad moments.   It is easier for me, no? 

Q.   Your hard court game has also gotten much better in the last 12 months.   You got to the finals of Miami; you played a great match against Murray.   You're saying they're better than you, but it seems like the gap is closing. 
DAVID FERRER:   But is my opinion.   Of course I did final in Miami.   I did final in one Grand Slam, Roland Garros, the first time of my career.   I'm very happy for that, no? 
My goal is to be top 8 and to play the Masters Cup of London.   I am on the way. 

Q.   Rafa had that extended knee injury.   The way he plays tennis, to see him come back, people thought he couldn't be the same player.   He's playing the best tennis of his career. 
DAVID FERRER:   For me is not a surprise, you know, because Rafa is one of the best players of the world.   If one person come back playing the same that the others, it's Rafael, Roger, Novak, because they are better than the other ones, no? 
Yeah, was good.   Rafael had time to rest, to recovery his problems, his fitness problems, and now you got him.   He's playing unbelievable.   He's playing very aggressive and very confidence with his game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT