WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2013
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. FERRER/R. Bautista
  6‑3, 3‑6, 7‑6, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You played Roberto out there today.   He made it difficult for you, didn't he?  
DAVID FERRER:   No, I am okay.   Of course, I had a little pain in my ankle.   But today I fell off just one time.   
No, feel good.   The court is normal.   Is good, because was raining sometimes on the match.   
   
 Q.   And how do you feel that you're progressing on grass?  
DAVID FERRER:   Yeah, I improving my game in grass court.   Today I play better than the first day, the first round.   
My opponent, Roberto, he did a very good match.   He was very tough, very good rallies.   He's a very good player.   I'm glad for him because he's going to be better, sure.   
   
 Q.   You now face a quick turnaround before your next match.   What do you do in the period in between?  
DAVID FERRER:   Always in Wimbledon it's like that, no?   It was raining.   Unfortunately now I only have for one day to rest.   I do a massage with my physio.   I hope to be good tomorrow.   
My opponent, Dolgopolov, also play today, so there is not excuses.   
   
 Q.   You are a great hard worker.   Don't you think that slowing down all the surfaces, including the grass, it's unfair for the players who prefers a different variety of shots, creativity, and for the crowd who there was no real choice?   Most of the players just hit and run faster, are hitting harder.   
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I don't know.   I think I am trying to do my best in grass court.   Is very important the serve, sure.   Is more difficult in grass court.   I am trying to play more rallies with my game.   
Is difficult, because the ball, when we are playing some games, it's very big, no?   It's very difficult to play with very power with my shots because I am not big guy.   
   
 Q.   What have you done to change your game on grass?  
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I don't change too much because my shots are flat.   I play very flat with my backhand.   I'm trying to serve wide a lot of times and to go finish the net more times than other courts.  
   
 Q.   How would you assess your performance today?   You seemed to struggle on your serve at times today.   Were there any frustrations in the way you performed?  
DAVID FERRER:   I am good.   I am doing a very good season.   I am playing good.   I am in a good moment.   The next week I'm going to be 3 of the world.   It's a dream for me, no?   
I'm very happy with myself.   Nothing else.   I will try to do my best tomorrow and to fight a lot.   
   
 Q.   There's so many great tall players in the game now, but there's also a tradition of shorter players.   Have you thought about some of the shorter players and have you learned things from them?   
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know how I can explain in English.   
Well, I think for me Roger, Rafa, Andy, and Djokovic, they are, you know, the best players I never seen on play on my career, no?   And, well, of course, I don't know, because I can't explain in English.   Maybe in Spanish I can explain to you, but not in English.   Out of words.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT