MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 8, 2017
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. FERRER/M. Kukushkin
2-6, 7-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.
Q. How important is this victory for you?  In the second set you were in a very dangerous situation.  Is it important to win these type of matches?
DAVID FERRER: It's very important.  I haven't managed to win a lot of matches like this one, have a lot of victories in a row.  Especially to be able to win two matches in Estoril and another one here, that may give me a little bit of confidence to achieve the level that I want to achieve.
Q. We've seen at the end of the match you did a signature in the camera, perhaps remembering one of the boys that died in the other day's accident.  Did you know him?
DAVID FERRER: Yes.  He was a person very close to my family.  I was very close to him.
As you know, yesterday a cycling team in Javea was hit by a car.  He died and there are another two in want hospital.  That was bad news.  When we landed, my brother and I, we heard that.  I just wanted to dedicate this victory to him and his family.
I would have liked to have seen him.  But I don't really want to talk a lot about this subject because it's very hard for me because I knew the family and I knew him.
Q. I didn't know your connection with that accident, but in general there are a lot of accidents with cyclists.  Do you cycle often?
DAVID FERRER: Yes, I do cycle quite often.  In this case it's different because we have to be respectful with the road.  In this case it's different because the person that crashed into the cyclist tested positive for alcohol and drugs.  It was an attempted homicide.
But I also tell everyone that when they cycle in the roads, they have to be careful, they have to be conscious about that.  It's something very important, to bear in mind that the road is dangerous.
Q. We are close to your 700th victory in your career.  I wanted to know how was your first victory on the ATP Tour.
DAVID FERRER: Correct, Umag 2002 against Nalbandian, I think it was 6-4, 6-0, something like that.  Well, it's a long time since that victory.  It's true that right now I'm just a match away from my 700th victory.  I hope that that comes.
I'm very proud of my career.  But that figure is a very big figure.  It's something quite big to achieve, very difficult to achieve for a tennis player.
Fortunately, I've been lucky.  I have had a long career.  I still have a lot of time ahead of me.  I've won a lot of matches and that makes me very happy.  I've been very happy playing tennis.
Q. In Estoril, we saw you on television.  Are you serving well?  Do you have any problems with your serve?
DAVID FERRER: No, it depends on the moment.  I'm not very consistent with my serve right now.  It's true that I had a few physical injuries.  Sometimes I have to adapt to those.  But that doesn't keep me from playing or doesn't stop me serving well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT