MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 10, 2013
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. NADAL/D. Ferrer
  4‑6, 7‑6, 6‑0

(Through translation.)

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   Good afternoon, David.   I just wanted to know if you had in your mind when you were at 15‑30, you had a quite easy bail to make it 15‑40.   Then you see that Rafa does a really good loop.   It went over you.   After that did it go through your mind that the match was going?
DAVID FERRER:   No, not really.   I tried to keep on fighting.   After that Rafa played really good.   He played really great. 
Then you think that perhaps that volley was really important, but after that of course you also have to close the match.
Rafa, he has played very well.   He knew where it was going to be.   What can I do?   Now I'm a little bit anxious, yeah. 
I was going to say better that he had won that ball rather than I had missed it.   But in the end it's the same.   Rafa won that point.

Q.   David, what is tougher:   to lose like today or like in the final at Acapulco? 
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I think that looking at it calmly, I'm sure that from this match I can get much more positive conclusions because I've done a much better match than in Acapulco. 
The match of Murray was a little bit dramatic and maybe not as important.
Yeah, it's true that maybe you have eaten two matches that well could have been‑‑ well, not change my life, but my career, my tennis career could be a little bit better, yeah.
In that sense, yeah. 

Q.   After that point you got lost.   In the third set you weren't competitive.   You weren't competitive with the same level as the other sets. 
DAVID FERRER:   No, no I don't see it in that way.   I had break ball in the first game.   I was 40‑15 in the second game, and then I lost those two games and he just led with 4‑Love. 
I also had a break point at 5‑o.   I had 40‑15.   I had many chances.   Today I was much more tired physically talking.   Yesterday I played a match and I finished at 10:00 and I had very little time to recover.
Well, Rafa knew I played two hours and one quarter at a really high level, very physically demanding.
Well, I have paid for the hours that I have been playing. 

Q.   What do you think are the aspects that you can look back to to be better?   What can you try to develop and get better for the next matches? 
DAVID FERRER:   Right now In don't know.   I lost ten minutes ago and right now I'm a little bit‑‑ it's too early to analyze all that.
When I'm at home, well, I'll try to think ‑‑ or try not to think.   I think maybe it's even better not think and just live with it. 

Q.   Do you think that Nadal right now is the favorite?   There has been so many surprises in this tournament.   How did you see it?
DAVID FERRER:   Rafa is always favored on clay.   Without any doubt he's the best and he's really fit right now.   We never know what can happen from there.   Nobody knows that.
Rafa on clay, he's always the favorite. 

Q.   In the first set you had a break; in the second another one.   Then you had the chance to fly.   Do you think the key was there, especially in the second set?   Do you think the key of the match was there? 
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I don't know.   I think the key was at 6‑5, because at 4‑2 Rafa was playing really well.   It was more because of the merits of Rafa than me missing the balls.   He did two really good passing shots, and the key was at 6‑5.   Then Rafa played really well.
Rafa, we're talking about one of the best players.   If you miss these opportunities, then you pay the price.   Maybe with another player you can see the situation and you can continue playing.
But with Rafa, Djokovic, Federer, or Murray, you don't have margins for error. 

Q.   In respect to the match against Haas, in which you were much more offensive with the backhand, do you think that the victory, to have a victory today you needed to play more aggressively?
DAVID FERRER:   Yeah, I played better tactically because I had a better backhand.   With Haas it's a completely different game.   He lays really aggressively and doesn't give you much time to play long balls.
I also did a really good match, really good first set and also a second set with Haas. 
But, well, in general I played a good tournament.   I played quite steadily.   That's what I take home. 

Q.   You've said happened Nadal is really good right now.   Nadal too after the match said you did a really good match.   He said today probably the one who played the best hasn't won.   Do you think there is not also a physical part of this match but maybe a little bit of mental disconnect in the third set perhaps on your side? 
DAVID FERRER:   No, no.   I don't think that really.   I was really physically tired.   Also, the first games I wasn't able to take them ahead. 
As I said, I had many options to be 2‑0 ahead.   Well, after that he played more aggressively, and physically, well, I was not playing as good as before.
No, no.   It was not something mental.   I tried to stay, focused, but when you're physically tired and Rafa takes you to the limit, it's really complicated. 

Q.   Rafa said that you deserved to be in the semis.   Do you think that is a smaller gap with the top 4, or do you think they're too good and when you reach the moment of truth they have got a little extra?
DAVID FERRER:   Sincerely, I don't care.   I think they're really good.   I've always said that.   They're the four best players of the world.   They make the difference compared to the other players.
I always talk about the same thing.   Berdych, Tsonga, Del Potro, they all come like airplanes.   Now Dimitrov and Wawrinka and Almagro too are pushing really hard. 
With the amount of good players we've got down there, I'm not thinking about getting up there with the top 4.   It's really complicated.

Q.   Talking about the technical stuff, I've seen you doing a much better volley.   You were lucky in the match.   Do you think the altitude here in Madrid makes you volley more or makes you go up to the net more?
DAVID FERRER:   I try to go up to the net a little bit more.   Yeah, it's true with the altitude the match is quicker, and that perhaps is more beneficial for me. 
If with Rafa you don't finish the ball with the volley, it's impossible to have any options against him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT