SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 31, 2013
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/D. Ferrer
  2‑6, 6‑4, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   First of all, great match, great fight.   Can you tell us what the condition was like when you didn't get the match point, when you challenged it, you might have won it?   And then heading into the tiebreak, seemed to me you might have been just gassed, out of gas.   Can you talk about you physically at the end there?
DAVID FERRER:   Well, it was a very close match, no?   I had my chance in the match point.   The ball, it was really close.
I saw out, and, you know, really close.   Anyway, but final of the set I was more tired than him, and he served to win the match, no? 

Q.   Do you think you should have hit that ball, now looking back?
DAVID FERRER:   No, I don't want to think nothing.   I chose my decision in that moment.   It's a bad moment now. 
I don't want to think anymore about that.   I want to forget, the more faster as possible.

Q.   You're typically known for your fitness.   You have had a couple of long matches lately.   How did you feel when you got up this morning?   Did you feel like... 
DAVID FERRER:   I feel good.   But the match, it was very hot.   It was very tough.   With Andy it was a very physical match, no? 
The final of the set, both him and me, we were tired, no?   And today the day was hotter than the other days. 

Q.   What was it like playing the match?
DAVID FERRER:   (Through translation.)   Well, feel good.   Now I am sad, of course.   I lost with match point up, no?   And one ball close. 
But, you know, with tomorrow, sure, I'm going to be positive.   I did final.   I know it was a very good chance for to win Miami.   It's very difficult to win.   It will be another situation like today, but, you know, my life, it didn't change for one match.   I need to work hard and to be focused for the next tournaments. 

Q.   Do you know that you have a lot of sympathy from crowds and fans?
DAVID FERRER:   It was very nice, the support of the people, to see a lot of Spanish fans, a lot of people supporting me on the final, like Andy Murray, so only I have words to thanks to the people, to the crowd. 

Q.   When did you start getting cramps?
DAVID FERRER:   In the final of the third set.

Q.   So it affected you in the tiebreaker?   Did it affect you?
DAVID FERRER:   No, in the tiebreaker, I was cramping, everything.   Yeah.   In the tiebreak, yeah. 

Q.   Do you feel like you're finally getting like worldwide respect?   I know you haven't beaten the big guys in the big finals, but you're getting so close, Australian semis and here.   Do you feel like you're getting that worldwide respect, especially in your country?   Because you have to deal with the Rafa Nadal love affair. 
DAVID FERRER:   (Through translation.)   No, no, I am okay.   I am trying to do my best every match.   I am not thinking or focused about the top four players, no, or Rafa. 
Every week is different, and now I want to rest and to prepare my next tournament, my next season in clay court because it's very important for me, no?   I will have a good chance for to will do good results.

Q.   Did you need intravenous fluids? 
DAVID FERRER:   (Through translation.)   No, no, no.   I am okay.   I am okay. 

Q.   Do you feel like after you broke in the second set, Andy went 4‑4, you were broken again.   Do you feel like maybe if you had held that game that the outcome might have been even different?
DAVID FERRER:   Well, it was a very important game.   I played very bad that game with 4‑All, because I break up again for me, and I played very bad in that moments.
But anyway, in the third set I was a break down three times.   I put 6‑5 on match point.   I had my chance.   I'm not taking advantage.   And finally, with these players, if I don't take advantage, it's impossible to win.

Q.   Do you think Andy was in worse condition than you?   He seemed to be very like staggering and... 
DAVID FERRER:   No, I don't know.   I don't know.   I think he was tired and me in the third set.   But is normal, no?   The day was very hot, and I was only focused with myself. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT