SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 29, 2013
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. FERRER/T. Haas
  4‑6, 6‑2, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What was in your mind after watching Haas playing in the first game?  
DAVID FERRER:   The first game?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
DAVID FERRER:   What?   
   
 Q.   What was in your mind after watching Haas play in the first...   
DAVID FERRER:   No, nothing else.   I tried to be focused every point in the first set.   Tommy plays better than me.   I was a little bit out with my mind.   
But in the second I played more consistent with my game and I feel better, no?   
   
 Q.   What did you do to turn the match around?   Third set was service, break, service, break, service, break.   What allowed you to turn it around and win?  
DAVID FERRER:   I tried to fight every point.   I know Tommy, in the third set, he was a little bit more tired than me.   I know that.   
But when I start the third set, I served very bad, no?   But anyway, I tried to forget and to play, focus every point.  
   
 Q.   Having won your first Masters in Paris, how hungry does that make you to get another one?  
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   I am in the final.   I am very happy for that.   I will try to do my best for to win Sunday.  
It's going to be very difficult, no?   I think for to win one Masters 1000 I need to play my best tennis, because I will play against Richard Gasquet or Andy Murray.   Both players, they are one of the ‑‑they are very good players.   
   
 Q.   If it is Andy, what kind of match do you have to play against him?  
DAVID FERRER:   I will have to do everything good.   I will have to improve my first serve, to play obviously with my forehand sure for to beat him.  
   
 Q.   And if it is Gasquet that you have to play?   
DAVID FERRER:   Also I have to play consistent with my game.   If I will play with him, it's going to be a long match because we will do good rallies on the baseline, sure.   
And he play very good with his serve and is one player can ‑‑he can play with a lot of topspin.   Is not easy to play against Richard.  
But, you know, we are in one final of one Masters 1000.   Is difficult to play any player, no?   
   
 Q.   The last win in Paris, it took you your whole career to get that win.   Are you surprised you're here again another one so soon?  
DAVID FERRER:   No, no.   I start very good this season.   I did semifinal in Australian Open.   I won two tournaments, one final in Acapulco.   I am playing very regular this season.   
So now I am in to another final, and it's okay, no?   Is not surprise.   Of course it's very difficult to be in one final and of one Masters 1000, but it's going to be my fifth final in these tournaments, no?   
   
 Q.   It doesn't matter if you win or lose in the final, you're still going to go back to No. 4.   
DAVID FERRER:   Uh‑huh.  
   
 Q.   Does that mean anything for you, or...   
DAVID FERRER:   No, nothing.   I don't care to be No. 4 in this moment.   Is important when we finish the season in November.   My goal is to be top 8 for to play London again.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT