SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 27, 2013
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. FERRER/J. Melzer
  4‑6, 6‑3, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How did you turn it around?   What was the story in the first set?
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I start good with 2‑0 up, but he played very good and he played with great power with his shots.   And when he make the break to me, I played not so good, no? 
I was a little bit nervous in the first set and part of the second, but I tried to fight every point, to be focused, and I had a good feeling in the final of the second set and of course in the third one.

Q.   What's it like here now?   Obviously Roger didn't enter, Rafa didn't enter, and now Novak is out. 
DAVID FERRER:   I don't care that.   Now I am in semifinal.   I will have play very good for to will be in the final against Tommy Haas or Gilles Simon.
Of course Rafael and Roger, they are very, very important for the tournament.   Yesterday Novak lost against Tommy Haas, but this is a game, no?   Sometimes the best players can lose.

Q.   You have done well here before.   You have been in the semifinals here twice before?
DAVID FERRER:   Yes, I have been in the semifinal in 2005 and 2006. 

Q.   Is there something about this tournament you like?
DAVID FERRER:   Yeah, of course, I like this tournament.   I played very good this tournament.   I made two semifinals, two quarterfinals, and now I am in the third semifinal of my career, no? 
So of course I like this tournament.

Q.   Is this like a good city for you because it's got a very Spanish... 
DAVID FERRER:   Yes, of course it's easy for the Spanish players, no, because we can speak the Spanish language and we have all the facilities outside.   I like the city, and we have the beach and we have some friends also.   It is very comfortable to be here.

Q.   Anything in particular you like to do in Miami?
DAVID FERRER:   Nothing special.   Nothing special.   Maybe because I have for will do some things different, like I can to see a player of baseball, to be in a party with some friends. 
The players' party also very good, and of course Miami Beach, no? 
So also I was in the basketball match.   I did a lot of things.   It's good.   It's different.

Q.   Did you find the conditions hard to deal with, or do you like playing when it's a little bit cooler outside?
DAVID FERRER:   I don't care.   Of course when the day is with very hot or with a lot of humidity, it's very difficult for to play, but also for my opponent, no? 
If I have the choice, I prefer to play with colder.

Q.   You're the kind of a top player that doesn't get that much attention or press or anything.   Are you happy just to go about your little life and not be the focus?
DAVID FERRER:   I'm very happy with me, with my career of tennis, with the press to me.   I don't mind a lot I am more important player or not, no? 
I am trying to do my best for to will win the matches.   And I like play tennis and is my job, no?   I enjoy a lot with my job. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT