SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 26, 2013
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. FERRER/K. Nishikori
  6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   This is your third straight quarterfinal, fifth year.   
DAVID FERRER:   Uh‑huh.  
   
 Q.   Why do you play so well here?  
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I don't know exactly, you know.   I like playing in this tournament.   I think because in Indian Wells normally I lost in the first round and I had time to rest for to practice in hard court.   
And when I came here I am playing good, no?   
   
 Q.   On court you said you played pretty much your best level of play today.   What would you say you need to improve for your next round?  
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I need to improve every day, every area of my game, no?   
Today was a very good match.   I played my best match in this couple of weeks.   Tomorrow play against Melzer will be different match, no?   
He's a different opponent.   He doesn't play similar like Nishikori.   He's a lefty hand, so I need to play very focused like today, and will be I think very important I receive tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Were the conditions a lot better today?   It's cooler out.   
DAVID FERRER:   Well, today was better than two days ago, no?   Two days ago was very hot.   Today it was perfect.   Good feeling for myself, and I don't have any problem physic like two days ago.  
   
 Q.   You're going to be 31 soon.   Next week?  
DAVID FERRER:   Yeah, 2 of April.   
   
 Q.   That's my husband's birthday.   
DAVID FERRER:   Really?   
   
 Q.   Good day.   And I know Melzer is 31.   You look very young; you play very young.   Do you feel like you're getting ‑‑do you feel a difference now from when you play the young kids?  
DAVID FERRER:   Yes, of course.   You know, I change a lot my mind, my game.   I am trying to improve every year myself, no?   
Now I am in a good moment, of course.  
   
 Q.   In the match against Nishikori, how did you think of his performance today?   He said he wasn't consistent on his stroke compared to the previous matches.   How did you think of that?   
DAVID FERRER:   He seem well, no?   I think Nishikori, he's amazing player.   He's young player.   He's going to be top 10 in the future.   He has game for to will be top 10.  
You know, every match is different, and today I play a good level.   It was very close in the first set.   
In the second it was also close, but the result maybe it was easier, no?   On the court and on the game I run a lot, and I played my best for to win the second set.  
   
 Q.   Rafa, he's won 52 matches at Roland Garros and lost one.   Why is he so good in that place?  
DAVID FERRER:   Rafa?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
DAVID FERRER:   He's good in all the courts, no?   
   
 Q.   Better there.   
DAVID FERRER:   Yeah, better there, but...   
   
 Q.   Why?   
DAVID FERRER:   Because, you know, he's unbelievable player.   He has all the shots.   He has a good receive, good forehand with topspin, physic, and for my mind he's the best of the ATP.   And in clay court he has more and more time for to hit the ball, no?   
But, anyway, he's very good in all the surface.   
   
 Q.   Have you played at night here this tournament?  
DAVID FERRER:   No, no.   I played twice times in 11:00 game.  
   
 Q.   Is there a big difference for you if you go to the night?   Do you care?   What do you like better?  
DAVID FERRER:   Is different play in the morning than play at night, but I don't care, no?   If I will have to play, I will have to play at night, it's good.   
   
 Q.   The atmosphere?   
DAVID FERRER:   The atmosphere is going to be different, no?   I think at night there are more people in the court.  
But I don't care, no?   I am only focused with myself.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT