SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 24, 2013
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. FERRER/F. Fognini
  6‑1, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You have played just one match, and you're already in the fourth round.   How nice is that?  
DAVID FERRER:   It's very nice, no?   With only one match I am in third round.  
Well, I am happy, because is not easy play with Fabio Fognini.   He played one match before.   He was more comfortable in the court.  
But I am happy with my game.   I become very good.   And in the second it was tough but is normal, no?   Is very difficult to win one professional match easy.  
   
 Q.   Was it very windy?  
DAVID FERRER:   Yes, a lot of windy today, no?   It's very difficult for to play good with that windy, but I try to play consistent without mistakes.   
But, well, it's okay.   It's difficult for us, no, for me and for my opponent.  
   
 Q.   You're obviously very well‑rested now.   I know you lost your first I guess match at Indian Wells.   In the long run, does that help you to be very rested, or would you rather keep playing matches?  
DAVID FERRER:   No, I prefer to win as much matches possible, no?   Indian Wells Kevin Anderson, he was better than me.   Now I am in other tournament, and I will try to do my best for to will do the best tournament.   
   
 Q.   You play Nishikori next.   
DAVID FERRER:   Uh‑huh.  
   
 Q.   I think you're 2‑2 against him.   Can you talk about him?   I think you beat him last time in Australia.   
DAVID FERRER:   It's going to be a very difficult match, no?   The last time I played with him in Australian Open I won him in three sets, but I will have to run a lot and to ‑‑ you know, we will play a lot of rallies on the baseline.   
Depends.   I think the key is going to be the physic, no?   It's going to be a long match, sure.   Nishikori, he has unbelievable shots.   He play with very power with his shots.   I need to run a lot and to will do not too many mistakes.  
   
 Q.   Your first Masters 1000 breakthrough came here in 2005.   You reached the semifinals, and again the next year.   Can you just talk about playing here in Miami?   There are a lot of Spanish fans here.   Talk about the environment compared to other tournaments throughout the year.   
DAVID FERRER:   Well, it's nice to come back every year to Miami, no?   I think this tournament will have a lot of Spanish fans.   We have all of the facilities.   We can do everything, no?   
It's good because for the Spanish players we can speak Spanish in all the city, no?   Well, I have a very good regards here in Miami and in this tournament.   
But, you know, I am only focusing in the present.   The other ones I have good memories but is past, no?   Now I want to enjoy this moment for to do my best next match.   
   
 Q.   Without Nadal and without Federer, does that affect your chances a little more?  
DAVID FERRER:   No, of course not.   Well, of course Rafael Nadal, Roger Federer, they are very important players, but I have to play third, fourth round against Nishikori, and it's going to be very difficult, no?   We will see.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT