BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 9, 2013
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. ANDERSON/D. Ferrer
  3‑6, 6‑4, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Seemed like you were getting very upset with the chair umpire early in the second set.   Talk about what happened there.   
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I had my chance in the 4‑All, two break points up, but he played good in important moments.   He played more aggressive, more consistent than me, and in the third set I was a little bit tired and he was better than me.   
I don't have excuse, no?   
   
 Q.   Why do you think you were tired?  
DAVID FERRER:   Well, because ‑‑no, is tennis.   Is normal.   Because he was better than me.   He serve better.   Some days the player is playing good, and sometimes he's playing not so good.  
Today I am not play bad, but not my best match, best match of my career.  
   
 Q.   How good is his serve comparatively speaking on the tour?   Where does it rank for you to play?   Is he up there with the Isners and Karlovics?   His serve.   
DAVID FERRER:   Yes, yes, it's very good.   He's a tall guy.   Similar game.  
   
 Q.   How difficult is it to play in Indian Wells, the courts, the ball?   Does the ball fly for you?  
DAVID FERRER:   No, it's okay.   It's okay.   I think the conditions is the same for all the players.   
   
 Q.   You were talking to the chair umpire.   Was it the same chair umpire you had in doubles yesterday?   
DAVID FERRER:   Yeah, it was not important point.   I was angry in that moment, but it's not fun for ‑‑it was a mistake for him, but all the people has mistakes, no?   Also me.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel like you were playing well coming into this tournament?   Were you happy with your game?  
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   (Smiling.)  
Now I lost.   Tomorrow I will try to do my best for to practice good for to play very good in Miami.   
But I don't know.   
   
 Q.   What is your level of disappointment?   Because we don't see you lose early in tournaments very often.   
DAVID FERRER:   Well, of course I am disappoint, no, because I lost in first round.   
But this is tennis, and it's impossible to win always.   Kevin Anderson was better than me.   What can I do?   
   
 Q.   Is it easy for you to bounce back?  
DAVID FERRER:   Yeah, of course.   This is only sport.   Of course is my job.   It was a bad day, and not ‑‑ I am disappointed with me, but tomorrow I going to be good, sure.  
   
 Q.   How important is it for you to stay in the top 4 where you're ranked now?   Do you think can you get any higher?  
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   I don't know for me.   I start very good this season, and of course it's important to finish the season top 10.   But is difficult.   I don't know.   
Now I want to practice a lot and to hard work for to will be top 10.  
   
 Q.   You say top 10, but you're top 5 now.   Are you setting low expectations for yourself?  
DAVID FERRER:   No.   I am thinking always in the present and in this moment.   The most important thing is when finish the season.   Now is not important.   We start the season.   We are in the second part of the season.  
   
 Q.   Rafa played a high level against you when you played recently on clay.   Do you expect him to be able to keep that kind of level on a hard court, especially his first tournament?  
DAVID FERRER:   Yeah, I think so.   I think Rafael is coming back up.   I play with him in a clay court.   And it was different court, but he's playing good.   He's not playing with his with pain in his knee, and that is a very good point.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT