BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 2, 2017
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. FERRER/B. Tomic   
6-3, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  A good way to start the new year.  
DAVID FERRER: Yeah.  Yeah, of course.  Well, good.  My first match in this season, on this season.  So it was never easy.  And also, against Tomic, he's a very good player.   
I happy, because, of course, I am in second round, but I think a little bit more because I beat a good player.   
 Q.  What is it about his game that's so difficult to handle?  
DAVID FERRER: He has a very good serve.  He move very good, the ball.  He has very good slice.  Well, he has everything to be a top 10.   
Well, anyway, maybe he lost a little bit his focus this match in some moments, and I played consistent.  It was the key, maybe.   
 Q.  Did you ask him at the end whether you thought he was sick?  
DAVID FERRER: Yeah, I ask it, but no, he didn't tell me nothing.  He tell me that congrats and good luck for the next match.   
 Q.  Was it your feeling that he was sick?  
DAVID FERRER: I don't know.  I don't know.  I don't know.  He tried to play faster.  I don't know he was risky for this match, he was bad about his fingers, I don't know.   
Anyway, I tried to be focused with myself.   
 Q.  How long have you been out here, and how are you feeling going in?  Did you feel fresh, or was it a little bit...  
DAVID FERRER: Yeah, I feel good.  A little bit hot.  The conditions was not easy, because I came from Spain, and, you know, Spain is colder.   
But I arrive Saturday, is too close for play today.  But anyway, I don't have excuses.  I tried to do my best, and I hope the next days will be better with my fitness and breathing.   
 Q.  What did you feel about your performances last year, about your year overall in 2016?  
DAVID FERRER: It was not -- not bad, of course.  The last five or six years I was top 10, but, you know, there are younger players.  It's normal, no?   
Well, I am still enjoying with the tennis, and I hope improve this year.  But I am quiet.  I am happy with myself and my career.  I don't know.  I'm going step by step and be quiet every tournament, you know.   
 Q.  Do you still feel like you have the ability to get back in the top 10?  
DAVID FERRER: It's difficult.  Who knows?  I tell you the same:  My goals this year is be happy with myself and be focus every tournament that I play without pressure, of course.   
All the tennis players have pressure, but in my moment, I need enjoy this type of matches in the center court.  I am 34 years old, in the next month 35, so I hope will play a little bit longer in my career.   
 Q.  Have you seen Jordan Thompson, your next opponent yet?  
DAVID FERRER: I never play with him.  Yesterday I saw some points, but not too much because I had to play today against Tomic and I was focusing on my first match.   
Well, now I want to rest.  Tomorrow I will have one day off.  I will play Wednesday, I think.  So tomorrow I will talk with my coach, and we will see about the keys.  I know he is younger player.  We'll see.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT