AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2013
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. FERRER/M. Baghdatis
  6‑4, 6‑2, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You have Kei Nishikori next.   What do you have to do to beat him this time?  
DAVID FERRER:   Well, it's a very difficult match.   I will have to play very good for to beat him.   I will have to play similar like tonight:   consistent, solid.   
It's going to be a very physic match, no?   Because he has a very good shots, very powered on all his shots.   So I will be fast in my legs, no?   
   
 Q.   You've played in the Olympics last time, and the first time he beat you.   What kind of shots are uncomfortable for you?  
DAVID FERRER:   Every match is different.   It was in grass court, in Olympic Games, in another tournament.   
Now we are in 2013, so, you know, the tennis, one day you can play your best tennis and another day you can play your worst of tennis, no?   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you're playing your best tennis at the moment?  
DAVID FERRER:   No.   I am okay.   I am good.   Of course tonight it was my best match on this week.   I'm very happy for that.   For to win in three sets, Marcos, is difficult, no?   And I did.   
   
 Q.   It's promising that you're building through the tournament.   
DAVID FERRER:   I repeat again.   Every match is different.   I am in a good moment.   I start very good the season.   Tonight I play very good.   
After tomorrow, I don't know what happen, no?   But I feel good, no?   Of course I won one tournament one week before and now I am in fourth round run, so good feeling, of course.  
   
 Q.   Are you confident within yourself about how you're feeling?  
DAVID FERRER:   I am confidence for to will fight after tomorrow.   I am only focused with my next match against Nishikori.   Now I want to enjoy this moment, no?   I want to rest.   I want to be with my team.   
I am not thinking too much about the match after tomorrow.   After tomorrow I will be thinking about the match.   
   
 Q.   It's a satisfying win against a difficult opponent.   You played some good tennis.   
DAVID FERRER:   Of course, I will have to play my best tennis for to beat him because he's a very great player.   He's younger player, and, of course, I think Kei is going to be a top 10 soon.   
   
 Q.   Some players say center court feels slower than other years.   
DAVID FERRER:   Slower the court than other years?   Can you repeat the question?   
   
 Q.   Some players say this surface is faster than last year.   Do you feel that way?  
DAVID FERRER:   Yeah, yeah, sure.   It's a little bit faster than other years.   But is normal.   Sometimes is slower; sometimes change the courts.   This year change a little bit, sure.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel more pressure being the top Spaniard without Rafa here?  
DAVID FERRER:   No, of course I'm not.   I don't mind I am the No.1 of Spain or not.   I am only focused with myself and with my tennis, of course.   
Rafael, no, is very important for us.   Is a good friend for me.   He's recovering soon, no?   
   
 Q.   Have you been in contact with him?  
DAVID FERRER:   I talked two weeks ago when he had a virus.   But when I finish this tournament, of course I will talk with him.   And I know good news because he's going to be soon, no, in Chile and Brazil.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT