QATAR EXXONMOBILE OPEN
January 4, 2013
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DAVYDENKO/D. Ferrer
  6‑2, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Could you have done anything different against an opponent playing as well as that?
DAVID FERRER:   Well, yes, I think he did a very good match, no?   He played better than me all the time.   He served better.   He receive better.   He was better.   I didn't have any chance in the match.

Q.   What's the way to deal with somebody who takes risks like that, hitting the ball flat and attacking all the time?   What's the best way to try and stop that?
DAVID FERRER:   Tonight, I don't know.   I don't receive very good in all the match.
When Davydenko is playing to this level, I need to improve a lot my game, no, and tonight I didn't play the best match of my career.

Q.   Do you think that's partly because it's the first tournament of the year?
DAVID FERRER:   No, no, because he was better than me.   Although it is the first tournament, I don't care, no? 
I mean, it's different and it's with Davydenko.   He was better than me.

Q.   Have you nevertheless achieved one of your main aims this week, which is to get good practice and good preparation?
DAVID FERRER:   For me, yeah, it's good practice and good preparation.   For me, every ATP tournament is very important.   I lost in semifinal.   If nothing else, I have to be positive and to will be focused again for the next week. 

Q.   In that first set, was it his play or ‑‑you had like 15 unforced errors.   What was happening in that first set?   Was it him playing so well or were you struggling with your own game?
DAVID FERRER:   No, he was better than me.   In the first game I didn't play too much aggressive but because the game of him was better.

Q.   You talked a little bit last time, you have seen him play this week, but is this a different Davydenko than we have seen in a few years?   What do you expect from him now?
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   You have to ask to him.   Davydenko, he's a very good player.   He was top 10 a long time.   This week, he played very good, no?   The tennis, a very good change. 

Q.   How can you summarize the week you spent here, the games you played?   Your physical condition?   Are you ready to go to the Australian Open?
DAVID FERRER:   I am ready for Auckland is my next tournament.   I am not thinking about Australia.   But I'm okay.

Q.   What were like the difficulties that you faced in this game today, the major difficulties?
DAVID FERRER:   It was difficult all of my game, no? 
I saw before he play better everything by me.   He play more aggressive.   He serve better.   He return better than me.   I didn't have any chance for to do something tonight. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT