QATAR EXXONMOBILE OPEN
January 3, 2013
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. FERRER/P. Lorenzi
  6‑3, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   It seemed like your best match of the tournament.   You got off to a much quicker start than you had earlier in the week.   Maybe just talk us through the match a little bit.   
DAVID FERRER:   Well, the match, it was good.   Maybe yesterday was similar like tonight, and I play good.   In the second set I play more aggressive with my game.   Never is easy to play very good the first week of the season.  
   
 Q.   It was 62 minutes.   I think it was the shortest game of the week, so do you see yourself winning final?   
DAVID FERRER:   I need to improve my serve, sure, to win tomorrow.   But I played good in the baseline, and I am positive.   I'm trying to‑‑ I will be positive.   
   
 Q.   It's the first week of the season, but obviously the Australian Open is starting to come up close, 10 days away.   A match like this, does that help push your confidence, looking ahead?  
DAVID FERRER:   No, because I'm not focused on Australian Open, no?   I'm focused in this tournament.   It's very important for me.   
After this tournament I will play in Auckland, no?   I am not thinking about Australia.   When I will play the week of Australian Open, I will be focused there but not in this moment.  
   
 Q.   You were winning points in quite a lot of different ways, as well, weren't you?   Was that particularly pleasing for you, sometimes with your forehand, sometimes playing a drop?  
DAVID FERRER:   I'm trying to change my game sometimes.   Depends on my opponent.  
Today I did two drops, and I am trying to improve my volley, to go more to the net.   
   
 Q.   Then at the end of the match you got completely on top.   You won a very long string of points together.   Did you get in the zone, or did you feel that everything was coming together?  
DAVID FERRER:   I think, you know, every match is different, you know.   Yesterday and tonight I had a very good feeling.   Tomorrow maybe I will not play better, no, but I am trying to will be focused, to win, fight every point, and to be there, no?   
   
 Q.   You could play Nikolay Davydenko or Simone Bolelli.   Could you talk about one or either of them and what it's like to play them?  
DAVID FERRER:   Well, Simone Bolelli, he play with very power.   He have a very good first serve.   He's already very good player.   
And Nikolay Davydenko, he was on top three or top four, I'm not sure.   He played unbelievable, no?   He has really good shots, very good backhand.   He move really good.  
The last two years he was injured, and maybe he's not in his best performance, but I think this year or this week he's playing really good tennis.   
   
 Q.   What would it take for you to go up another level, move up into the top four?   What would you do in your game?  
DAVID FERRER:   Is difficult.   Is very difficult.   In these moments, the top four, they are better than me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT