QATAR EXXONMOBILE OPEN
December 31, 2012
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We have David back in Doha, first time since 2005.   Questions in English first, please. 

Q.   You and Gasquet are the predicted finalists for this year's tournament.   You have an 8‑1 record over him.   Do you think you can continue this form against him?
DAVID FERRER:   I not think so about that.   I'm focused only with my next match tomorrow against one qualifier.   I don't know with who I will play. 
I am going step to step, no?   I am not thinking how I will play with Richard or another player.   I am only focused with my next opponent.

Q.   You won all those titles last year and did really well in the Davis Cup and won awards.   Congratulations.   Can you do better than that in the coming year, do you think?
DAVID FERRER:   Is difficult.   Is difficult to win the same like last year, no? 
The last year of course it was the best of my career, and this year I will try to, will do again, but is very difficult.

Q.   Do you try to focus on just adding things to your game?   Is that the best way to proceed?
DAVID FERRER:   I am trying really to improve my game, and my best quality work maybe I am focused every point.   I'm trying to will play focus every point I play.

Q.   Being top seed in this tournament, does that in any way affect your mindset, or do you just go about it as you normally would?
DAVID FERRER:   No.   I am a top seed, but I feel good.   I don't have pressure than other years, no?   I am No. 1 seed of this tournament, but we know that tennis is very close, and we know we can lose with everybody.   I am trying to fight every match, no? 
Now I am not thinking about if I have a chance to will win the tournament or not.   Only I am thinking about the next match and my opponent.

Q.   Have you set any specific goals for the season, say, like winning a Grand Slam?   Goals for the season?
DAVID FERRER:   Maybe my goal is to be top 10.   That's my goal. 
But anyway, we are looking about, looking forward the season, no?   But my goal is to be top 10.

Q.   Winning a Grand Slam, has it ever crossed your mind?
DAVID FERRER:   Is difficult to win a Grand Slam, no?   I never did final, but I don't know.   I know it's very difficult in these moments, because they are top 4, they are very good players and Nadal is coming back soon.
So every year is more difficult because I am older.

Q.   Have you spoken to Rafa at all, and do you know how he is?
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I spoke with him few days ago.   He was sick with virus, and he prefer to stop.   And he will come back in South America.
But the good news is because him, he doesn't have pain in the knees, no?   So that's the most important.

Q.   You have the reputation of being good friends.   Do you feel sympathetic for his situation?   Do you feel sympathy?
DAVID FERRER:   Yeah, of course.   Rafa is a very good friend for me and very important for the tennis tour, no? 
Of course all the tennis players, we miss him because he's very important.

Q.   It may be as much as seven or eight months before he plays again.   Is it possible to get back to the best after all that time?
DAVID FERRER:   I think Rafael, he can do it because he's a very good player.   He's a special player, no?   It's not like another one.   Rafael, he's very competitive, he's a winner, and he's young also.
I have confidence with him that when he's coming back he will play good.   Maybe not in the first tournaments because they had a lot of times tough, but he's coming ‑‑I am sure he coming back No. 2 or No. 1 in the world. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT