DAVIS CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP FINAL: SPAIN v CZECH REPUBLIC
November 18, 2012
Nicolas Almagro
Alex Corretja
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. STEPANEK/N. Almagro
      6‑4, 7‑6, 3‑6, 6‑3 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   I would like to welcome Spain's team.   I would like to congratulate them with their performance and your final position in this year's Davis Cup.   I open the floor for questions.   
   
 Q.   Nicolas, Radek looked very determined to win today.   Was it a mission impossible?   
    NICOLAS ALMAGRO:   Nothing's impossible.   But today he did better than me on court and he's the winner.   
    The only thing that we can do is congratulate them for the victory and we are ready to work hard to be here again.   
   
 Q.   Nicolas, did you get the impression you were playing against two players today:   you had Radek and also the support against you?   
    NICOLAS ALMAGRO:   I play against Radek only.   I try to do my best.   He was better than me.   He is the winner.   
   
 Q.   Was it difficult to fight against the crowd, the huge support?   
    NICOLAS ALMAGRO:   Of course is not easy.   But have played it in Prague.   I didn't wait to everybody support me.   I have my crowd.   They are the best crowd that we have in the world.   They are from Spain.   
   
 Q.   How important was experience today for you and what did you learn from a match like this about yourself?  
    NICOLAS ALMAGRO:   Right now is very difficult to say if I learn something or not.   Of course I learn a lot, but we need to think.   We need to stay a little bit more fresh, not right now.   
    Well, I think was a fantastic experience because we did everything that we can, and we fight every point.   Is a pleasure for me to be part of that team.   
    The only thing that we can say, and this is for everybody, we are going to fight a lot to be here again on the final, and maybe we can win.   
   
 Q.   Nicolas, last time you played Radek was at the US Open and you won.   Was there anything in particular that you weren't happy with your game or maybe that he did better than last time?  
    NICOLAS ALMAGRO:   I tried to do my best today in court.   I am not happy because I lost.   But today is not the moment to think that.   
   
 Q.   How difficult is it to face a player who tries to come to the net at every opportunity?   Does that make it difficult for you?   
    NICOLAS ALMAGRO:   It's his style.   You need to ask to him.   
    I try to play like I know.   I try to do my best.   Today he was better than me.   
   
 Q.   David, which feeling do you have in a moment like this?   For sure you are part of a team and your team lost, but you played an incredible match.   The first day, too, you did very well.   
    DAVID FERRER:   Of course we are sad in this moment, no?   Also I am very proud about our team.   We fight a lot for to win here in Prague.   But the Czechs, they were better than us, no?   
    So, of course, anyway I'm very happy with my game in this Davis Cup.   It was my best season of all my career.   And now I would like to rest, to relax for next days, and nothing else.   
    But in these moments is not a good moment.   We lost the final of Davis Cup.   Is not easy for us.   
   
 Q.   Alex, maybe for you as a person who was not in the match directly, everybody was talking about Tomas Berdych being the leader of the team, him being the guy that has to win three points for the Czech Republic to win.   In the end it was Radek.   What do you think about a 34‑year‑old guy who played 10 hours and was still fresh?   Was it impressive what you saw out of him today?   
    CAPTAIN CORRETJA:   Yes.   First of all, congratulate the Czech team.   Definitely, Radek, he did a great job.   He knew exactly how he wanted to play.   He was moving very well, serving well, coming to the net, playing flat with his backhand and his forehand.   
    I think he was quite tired at the end.   If we could go to a fifth set, it would have been tough for him as well.   But that we will never know, so it's absolutely not necessary to think about that.   
    I think he was tired.   But, yeah, he did a great performance.   
   
 Q.   Alex, you lost today, but you will stay as captain for the next season or seasons to come.   What did you learn from this loss, the final?   
    CAPTAIN CORRETJA:   Well, as Nico said, you learn things.   You learn a lot of things.   But 30 minutes after you lost, you need to wait a little bit and have some perspective and then check what do you need to do for the future.   
    What I learn is that we can win anywhere we go.   
   
 Q.   Alex, according to you, what was the key and most important moment in the weekend?   What could you say about the surface and the atmosphere here?   
    CAPTAIN CORRETJA:   The atmosphere was beautiful.   No complaints about that.   We played in a court which was fair, in the limits.   So no complaint about that.   
    I think there are a lot of moments where we could have changed the tie.   But right now we need to spend a lot of time to talk about that.   Maybe is not the right moment.   
    I don't know.   I think we had good chance also in the first day when Nico came back in the fourth set, the beginning of the fifth, against Tomas.   I think there he was very, very tired physically and mentally.   We had a chance there.   That could make a big step.   
    Unfortunately, we didn't make that.   
    Then they played very well in doubles.   
    Today we went to 2‑All.   And the fifth game, as I said, Radek played very smart and very well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT