DAVIS CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP FINAL: SPAIN v CZECH REPUBLIC
November 16, 2012
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. FERRER/R. Stepanek
  6‑3, 6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You predicted a tough game yesterday.   But straight sets.   How was it?
DAVID FERRER:   No, it was very, very tough, no?   It was very close, all the sets.   I have lucky because in important moments I play better than Radek.   Maybe key was in my receive, no? 

Q.   I know in a way you were expected to win because you're No.1 of your team and Radek is No. 2 of his team.   How much does this victory, the first point, lift off the pressure of your team?   Do you think it might be very important for the tie?
DAVID FERRER:   Every point is very important, no?   Of course, is very important won the first point because now Nico, he can play more quickly with his game. 
The match with Nico and Berdych is going to be a very tough match for them, no? 

Q.   What could you say about the surface?   Did you feel well or was there any problems with it?
DAVID FERRER:   I feel good, very comfortable.   I play very comfortable in the court. 
I know, of course, the court is very fast.   But we practice this week very good, Nicolas and me.   I'm very, very happy with my game today.   I did a very good game. 

Q.   I know that you broke him a couple of times, and Radek wasn't very happy about his serve, but still you had 25 breakpoints and used only five.   Is it something you would like to work on?
DAVID FERRER:   Well, is very difficult to break the serve to Radek, no?   In the important moments, he served very, very good.   The important thing was the important moments I make the breakpoints. 

Q.   Even if Radek and Tomas don't play the same way, is it the kind of match that can help you for the match against Berdych on Sunday, if there is a match?
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   I don't know.   Of course, sure, my next match against Tomas Berdych is going to be very difficult.   The surface is better for his game than mine.   I will have to play very, very focus. 
Now I would like to enjoy the moment, will do a very good recovery for to play a very good game on Sunday. 

Q.   Do you ever get tired?   You played a lot of tennis lately. 
DAVID FERRER:   Well, of course I am a little bit tired.   It was one match of three hours.   Sure, I won in three sets, but the three sets, it was very close, very long match.

Q.   Three years ago you had a very tough game on the clay courts in Barcelona against Radek.   Did you find it difficult because you came from two sets down, and here you had straight sets? 
DAVID FERRER:   I think every match is different.   That one, it was three years ago.   I played a lot of time with Radek Stepanek, no?   Was good for me won here in three sets. 
But, anyway, when I played with Radek, it was a very tough match.   I will have to play my best tennis for to beat him because he's a very great player. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT