U.S. OPEN
September 3, 2016
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. DEL POTRO/D. Ferrer
7-6, 6-2, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Victoria Azarenka was commenting on Twitter about the tennis match.
DAVID FERRER: I don't listen you.
Q. Victoria Azarenka was talking on Twitter about your match.
DAVID FERRER: Yeah.
Q. Does it surprise you that a tennis player is tweeting commentary about your match?
DAVID FERRER: Yeah, but what comment about my match?
Q. She said you were serving well.
DAVID FERRER: It's okay.  He like comment about tennis, was okay.  I don't mind.  It's okay, yeah.  It's good.  If is good for her and she is happy is the more important.
Q. Everybody is happy to see Juan Martin playing again.  Must be so difficult when he has so much support from the crowd constantly.
DAVID FERRER: No, I don't think so.  The crowd, you know, this is a show, and the crowd was supporting Juan Martin del Potro.  I am trying be focus my match.  I don't care.
Anyway, the first set maybe...  I was 5-2 up, I lost a little bit my concentration.  Was difficult in the second come back again.
But, anyway, Juan Martin was better.  He serve better.  He won the first set.  He had some doubts in the first set.  But in the second and third, he played more aggressive and he maked more free points with his serve.
Q. You have a good record against him.  How do you judge his game now compared to the past?
DAVID FERRER: It's different with the sensation.  Juan Martin, he was always a very good player.  Now he's changing his game because is playing more aggressive with his forehand and with the serve.  He was injury two years, problem with the wrist.  He change a little bit his game.
But anyway, he's amazing player.
Q. He changed his game.  Is it causing more problems or less problems?
DAVID FERRER: I don't know.  You have to ask to him.  I know he is playing more aggressive with his serve and with his forehand.  Every year everybody is improving the game.  You know, the game is faster than three or four years ago.  I am trying also.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT