BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 8, 2012
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/D. Ferrer
  6‑4, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You lost two close sets to Roger Federer today.   How do you reflect on the match overall?  
DAVID FERRER:   It was a good match.   I am happy with my game, no?   In the second set, I play better than the first one.   
But, you know, for to beat Roger, I will have to play my best tennis, no?   And today I had more chance than the last ones.   
   
 Q.   What is it about his game that makes it so difficult?   You played 14 times.   You're playing so well at the moment.   You still can't quite beat him.   
DAVID FERRER:   He's the best of the history.   He can do everything with his game.   I think he change very good his game, no, whatever he want.   He has a very good slice, very good serve when he needs.   You know, he has a lot of weapons for to do pain in my game.   
   
 Q.   You made a very good start with a 3‑0 lead.   What happened next?   Was it his game or yours?   
DAVID FERRER:   When?   
   
 Q.   At the beginning of the match.   
DAVID FERRER:   Yeah, I had a lot of chance for to break him the serve.   I can't do it.   When he has one breakpoint to me, he make it, no?   
You know, sometimes with these players, if I don't take my chance, I don't won the important points, is very difficult to won these matches.   In the first set, it happened then.   
   
 Q.   This is a question you answered a lot for 10 days, but how do you feel physically right now?  
DAVID FERRER:   I feel good.   I feel good.   Really I am okay.   
   
 Q.   You've already beaten Juan Martin Del Potro.   You now play Janko Tipsarevic next.   How do you approach this game?   
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I will have to win for to qualify.   I don't have any more chance, no?   Maybe I can win the match and I cannot qualify to semifinal.   
The last time with him I won 7‑6 in the fifth set in US Open.   So I think this time's going to be a very tough match.   
I said it was the same, no?   Here, everybody, they are the best players.   Every match is very difficult.   With Janko, maybe the key, I will have to play very solid all the match and very consistent, no?   If I will do this, maybe I will have some chance for tomorrow win.   
   
 Q.   You have lost every game against Roger.   How is it to go on the court with him?   Do you have the stat in your head?  
DAVID FERRER:   No, for me it's the same.   I play with one of the best players of the history.   But this time, this match, I began very good, no, playing with very confidence with my game, having a lot of chance for to broken him the serve.   
I am good.   I feel good with my game and with my performance today with Roger.   
   
 Q.   Is it in the back of your mind that if you reached the final here, you would go above Rafa in the rankings.   Is that anything you think about?  
DAVID FERRER:   I don't think about that because Rafa is injury.   For me, I don't care if I finish 4 or 5 of the world, no?   I am trying to do my best for to have a great tournament here.   And after here, then next week I will have a very important Davis Cup final, no?   
   
 Q.   If Rafa was around and you managed to get above him, would it mean something to you then?   Or the ranking does not make a difference?  
DAVID FERRER:   No, I don't care.   No, because I was 4 of the world in 2008.   I don't think about if I will be 4 of the world, no?   I am trying to do my best every match, and I am happy and very proud this year with my season, no?   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT