BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 6, 2012
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. FERRER/J. Del Potro
  6‑3, 3‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you give us your thoughts on tonight's win.   
DAVID FERRER:   Yeah, of course, it was a success, no?   Every match to win here is a success.   It was a really tough match.   Was very close.   We had very good rallies.   
I'm very happy with my game, no?   It's my satisfaction to won the first match against Juan Martin Del Potro.   Now I would like to rest, no?   
   
 Q.   It looked like you were playing a little closer to the baseline tonight than you've done in previous years here.   Have you made tactical changes to your game indoors this year?  
DAVID FERRER:   Well, maybe this year I am playing more aggressive with my shots.   I am going more to the net to finally the points.   
I think I am changing my backhand, no?   I am playing more baseline with my backhand.   
   
 Q.   Your next match is against Roger Federer.   What are your thoughts on this match?  
DAVID FERRER:   Well, I never beat him, no?   I lost 12 times when I played with Roger.   So I will try to do my best.   I will play with the best of the history.   
I think I will have to play very aggressive all the time for to do one chance to beat him.   
   
 Q.   You won against Djokovic, Murray, but never against Federer.   What makes his game so difficult for you to play against?  
DAVID FERRER:   I think he has a very good slice and very good serve.   It's very difficult for me to serve to Roger, no?   Maybe with the other players I can receive better.   And Roger, I can't do, no?   
Of course, because he finish the points in the net, and he has amazing forehand, no?   Sometimes depends the game of every player.   Some games it's better, some games it's worse for the players.   
But anyway, Roger Federer, he's an unbelievable player.   He's a very good.   So maybe because the difference with him is because he's better than me, no?   
   
 Q.   You were still playing on Sunday when everyone else was here.   Is that a disadvantage for you or is it good because you have that winning run coming in here?   
DAVID FERRER:   I am positive.   Always am.   It's good, no, I had one day to rest.   Yesterday I didn't play.   You know, I am playing with very confidence with my game in the end of the season, no?   I won in Valencia, Paris Bercy.   Now I played a very good tennis.   
I feel good.   Of course, I am a little bit tired because I am playing lot of matches, I am running a lot.   But, you know, when the player is going up, is win lot of victories, he has more confidence.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT