BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 5, 2012
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How pleased were you with your overall performance in Paris coming into this tournament?
DAVID FERRER:   Feel good.   Very confidence with my game.   I won the last two tournaments.   And now it's going to be another tournament.   I will be focus for my next match tomorrow against Juan Martin. 
I know this tournament is very difficult to win matches, no, because they are the best players of the world. 

Q.   Your confidence must be very high coming in here from all the wins you've taken.   Also you come in as the least rested player in a tournament where there are no easy matches.   Talk about that.   Are you concerned that you'll be able to be ready and fit this week? 
DAVID FERRER:   Well, you know, every match is very difficult to win.   I know that.   I am with very confidence.   Of course, I am a little bit tired because I played a lot of matches.   But I think everybody are tired in the end of the season. 
I will have to play the first match against Juan Martin.   I think I will have to play very, very good.   I will have to do my best tennis for to beat him. 
The other opponents, they are Roger Federer.   I never beat him.   And the other one is Janko Tipsarevic.   The last time I won to him in the fifth set in the US Open. 
Anyway, every match is different, no?   It's another date.   Finally I will try to do my best.   That's only I can do to say. 

Q.   You've been asked already in New York, but is there a special reason you are able to play with such a consistency over the past months now on such a high level?
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   Of course, now I am in a good moment on my career, my game and my tennis.   I didn't have any injury, important injury.   I think that is a good point, very important. 

Q.   Are the conditions much different than in Paris Bercy here or is it very similar?
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know because I don't practice in the court.   I will go after press conference. 
But I think the court is going to be the same like the last week.   But I don't know.   I can't to say. 

Q.   What did you do just after your final?   When did you arrive?   Did you celebrate in a way?
DAVID FERRER:   No, not too much.   I went to dinner with my team, one restaurant in Paris.   But nothing special because I arrived this afternoon.   I just arrive now here in the O2.   I didn't have time to stop one moment, no?   It was too fast. 

Q.   Your ranking points is less than 800 behind Rafael Nadal.   To be the No.1 player from Spain, have you thought about this?
DAVID FERRER:   That point is not important for me.   It's not real, no, because Rafa, he was injury a lot of time.   I am focus only for my next match, no?   Will be top 4 or not is not important for me in this moment.   I don't think about it. 

Q.   You have the Tour Finals this week, the Davis Cup next week.   Would you rather have had a week off after Paris and rest for what's a big period or do you like the fact that you now have a longer off‑season? 
DAVID FERRER:   No, no, no.   I prefer Paris, London and Davis Cup back to back because, you know, the calendar is very strong for us.   I prefer to stop 10 days after that tournament, no? 

Q.   I thought you could share your memories of the ATP World Tour Finals last year.   You were a semifinalist.   What is it like coming back again?
DAVID FERRER:   I will try to do again semifinal.   But it's going to be difficult, no?   The last year I played very good here in London.   Two years ago I didn't won any match.   I don't know what happen this year. 
I think every year is different.   Every match is going to be different than the other ones.   I don't know.   I hope to do a great tournament. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT