BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
November 4, 2012
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. FERRER/J. Janowicz
  6‑4, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Just after you won the match point, you collapsed to the ground.   I mean, does this tournament have such a big meaning for you?   What's the meaning of this victory for you in your career?  
DAVID FERRER:   It was a dream for me to win here in Paris Bercy.   You know, I never won one Masters 1000, and I take my chance, no, because it was not Andy Murray, Rafael Nadal, Roger Federer, and Djokovic.   I play very good these two weeks, no?   
   
 Q.   You know, you're the first Spanish player to win here.   Are you surprised by that?   Are you proud of that?  
DAVID FERRER:   Yes, maybe a little bit surprised, no, because I think I like to play indoor courts, but my better surface, my best surface is clay court, no?   
But I did two finals in Monte‑Carlo and Rome and one final in Shanghai, no, and it was close.   
This year I won in every surface.  
   
 Q.   How important is it also for you to move ahead of Federer now with seven titles this year?  
DAVID FERRER:   It's not important for me.   (Laughter.)  
Maybe I won more titles than Federer, but Federer won the important titles.   Federer or Djokovic or Andy Murray, not me.   
For me is very important because it was the best season of my career, and I will try to improve my game.   I know like Roger Federer, Novak Djokovic, Andy Murray, and Rafael Nadal, they are better than me.   I know that.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk maybe about how you were feeling on the court today against Janowicz?   Were you feeling the pressure?   Are you happy about the way you played?  
DAVID FERRER:   I feel the pressure more than him, no, because I played three times one final of one Masters 1000.   
He's young player.   It was the first final for him without pressure of him, and I know that, no?   
But I tried to didn't think about this.   I tried to play every point, to be focused, and I had more experience than him in that moment, no?   
   
 Q.   As you said on the court, you are 30 years old.   You have played with two generation of players.   So what do you think about Janowicz?   He's really a rising champion?   Your impression?  
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   Of course one player came to one final of one Masters 1000 he has a good future, no?   
But, you know, he's star now, and I think he has the good game for to will be a top 10.  
He has the game for to will be, but in tennis we never know, no?   
   
 Q.   In a couple of days you are playing in London.   Can you talk about the challenge that it is to win here and project yourself for the Masters?  
DAVID FERRER:   Well, of course I am confidence with my game, no?   I won last week and this week and I played a lot of matches.   Of course I am a little bit tired, but now I will try to do my best for to win a great tournament next week, no?   
I will have to play the best players of the world, the best 8.   I will have to play with Juan Martin Del Potro, and I know I will have to play my best tennis for to win to Juan Martin, no?   
   
 Q.   Obviously you have to move to London very quickly, but will you have a little time tonight to celebrate?   How do you plan to celebrate this big occasion?  
DAVID FERRER:   I will celebrate short time with my team.   I will go to dinner, some restaurant in Paris.   Nothing special, no?   
But of course I will enjoy this moment, no?   It's very special for me.   It's my first title of Masters 1000.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT