BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
November 3, 2012
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. FERRER/M. Llodra
  7‑5, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   Congratulations.   That was a tough one today, but now you're in the final.   It's a huge opportunity for you to get your first Masters 1000.   How do you feel?  
DAVID FERRER:   I feel good.   I am very happy because I am in the final, no?   
Tomorrow it's going to be a very difficult match because my opponent, he's playing very, very good.   But I will try to do my best for to beat him.  
   
 Q.   I suppose the pressure is maybe more on you than him.   You've had three Masters finals.   I presume you've never played him before.   What does it change when you're not up a big name and maybe someone unusual?  
DAVID FERRER:   For me it's the same.   Of course I have pressure, but every match I have pressure, no?   We know that.   
For me, tomorrow is one match again, no?   I will try to be focus every point and to do my job for to win.   
   
 Q.   Have you watched any of his matches this week, or will you watch them on video before tomorrow?  
DAVID FERRER:   No.   I watched this week with Andy Murray; today with Gilles Simon; and yesterday with Janko Tipsarevic.   
He's playing very good, no?   He has a very good serve.   He has a very good forehand.   He play with very, very power.  
He's going to be a great player in the future.   He's young, no?   He's young player, 22 years old I think so.   
I don't know what's going to be the key.   Maybe I will have to receive very good in important moments, because the best weapon of him is the first serve, no?   
   
 Q.   You saved ten break points in the first set; how did you manage that?   
DAVID FERRER:   I tried to be very focus every time.   I played more aggressive in the important moments.   When I had my chance ‑ I think I had two chances for to break him ‑ I make it, no?   
   
 Q.   Nadal used to be nicknamed the King of Breakpoints; are you in this tournament the King of Breakpoints?   
DAVID FERRER:   No, no.   I am trying to play very focused all the points.   I am not a king.   I am David.   (Smiling.)  
Q.Have you watched your draw at the Masters in London?   Do you have something to say about it?   Do you think about London already?  
DAVID FERRER:   No, I am thinking in this tournament.   I know I will have to play with Juan Martin Del Potro, but I am not thinking about London, no?   
Tomorrow I will have very important final in one Masters 1000.   It's very important for me and for my career, so I would like to only be focused on the next match, no?   
   
 Q.   I'm wondering how much you think about records like this.   I believe this year you have your career best in terms of number of wins, and you and Janko Tipsarevic are also the only two players who have more than 20 wins on clay and hard court.   Do you think about things like that as well?   And if you win tomorrow I think you'll have the most titles this year; is that right?   
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   Of course this year was the best of my career.   I never won six titles in one year.   If I win tomorrow it's going to be seven.  
I'm very happy for that, no?   I won a lot of matches and I will try to play similar the next weeks like this year, no?   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT