U.S. OPEN
September 9, 2012
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/D. Ferrer
  2‑6, 6‑1, 6‑4, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Do you wish the wind had stayed around?   You were doing so well in the wind, much better than Novak Djokovic. 
DAVID FERRER:   Yes, but I don't know.   Every day is different.   Today Djokovic, he plays better than me, no? 
Yesterday with the windy I start really good, but finally he won.

Q.   How difficult is it to play a match over two days?
DAVID FERRER:   Not difficult.   We are professional players.   We stopped three times and we come back again to the court, no?   Yesterday we stopped only one day.   That's okay, no?   Wasn't a problem.

Q.   When you came back in the third set from Love‑2 to 3‑2, you had three bad games, is there any specific reason for that?   You made many mistakes at that time. 
DAVID FERRER:   When? 

Q.   When you came back from Love‑2, 3‑2 in the third set, you had two bad games at that time. 
DAVID FERRER:   Oh, well, yes, in the finally of the third set I had three or four games playing so bad, a lot of mistakes.   I don't know.   I wish I would try to do my best, but sometimes I can't to do.

Q.   You're the only person who took one set from Djokovic in the US Open.   I don't know how much comfort there is in that. 
DAVID FERRER:   I don't mind.   I don't mind.   Because finally the most important is win the match, no? 

Q.   How much did you know about yesterday's schedule, and did you two want to play on Armstrong to try to be able to get the whole match in?
DAVID FERRER:   I don't want to say nothing about this.   Yesterday we played second match.   The organization did what they think was the better for the tournament.   I don't have to say nothing about this. 

Q.   Did you realize you probably wouldn't be able to finish the match yesterday?
DAVID FERRER:   No, it's okay.   The problem is the weather.

Q.   You played so well here.   Your match against Tipsarevic is probably the greatest match of the tournament.   Looking back, are there a lot of positives that you can take out of that?
DAVID FERRER:   Yes, of course I am very positive, no?   I did semifinal in Grand Slam.   My second time semifinal here at US Open.   This was the best of my career.   Of course I am very positive, no?   I am very happy with me and with my performance.

Q.   How about the way you played today?   Do you feel there was something missing in your game today or just Novak was better today?
DAVID FERRER:   No, he was better.   I don't have to say nothing.   In some games in the third and the fourth set I lost a little bit my focus, but I think he deserve to won the match.

Q.   Regarding the match you played on Thursday, is there some consolation in the fact that you did give fans really the best match of this US Open so far?
DAVID FERRER:   I'm proud about this, no?   The match with Tipsarevic? 

Q.   Yes.   Everyone was saying it's the best match so far. 
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know if it was the best match.   I know it was maybe the most emotional match, no, because it was 7‑6 in the fifth.   It was great for the people.
Finally this is a sport, and we are here because the fans like tennis, no?   It's the most important.

Q.   Now you have to refocus and to play on clay for Davis Cup.   Are you ready for that?
DAVID FERRER:   Of course I will try to.   They will play Friday in Davis Cup.   I will change the surface, and now I will be focused with the next competition of Davis Cup.

Q.   Yesterday you handled the wind better than Novak, but should tennis have been played in those conditions?
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   I don't know.   Yesterday was windy; yesterday was better for me.   I play better because maybe Novak he didn't play so good in the start of the match. 
But, you know, every match is different.   Every day is different.   You wake up different feeling.
So I don't know.   I don't know.

Q.   A tough question:   We live in this era of the top four who are so big and have such experience, big game.   There are some who say, Then there is a gap with the others, you, Tsonga, with Tomas.   Do you think there is a real gap?
DAVID FERRER:   Gap, what is gap?   (Through translation.)
Yes, of course I think that last years, the last five years Novak, Andy, Rafael, and Federer, they were the better. 
Yeah, they are better than the other ones.   And maybe they are a little ‑not little ‑ but big difference about it than other ones.

Q.   Can you put your finger on two or three things that make them... 
DAVID FERRER:   Because they are better.   Because they serve better than other guys.   The mentality of them are better, no?   A lot of things. 
I can't answer two or three things.   Certainly if I will know, I will be 2 or 3 in the world, not 5.   (Laughing.) 

Q.   You played your best season of your career at 31.   Do you think that next year you can maintain your level or even improve?
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   (Laughter.)
I don't know.   I try always to live the moment, and I am not think about the next year, no?   Now I am happy because I did semifinal.   Now I want to enjoy this day with my team. 
Tomorrow I will go to home for to play the Davis Cup and I will see. 
I don't know what happened in 2013 because we are in 2012.

Q.   Can you talk about your travel plans to get ready for this Davis Cup?
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   Because I finish now the match, and my team, they are doing the ‑‑they are taking the flight.   I don't know in this moment.

Q.   You don't even know if you're leaving today, tomorrow?
DAVID FERRER:   Maybe tonight, but I am not exactly what, one way or another. 

Q.   Still hoping to make a final one day depending on how the rankings go, I guess?
DAVID FERRER:   (Laughing.)   Okay.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT