U.S. OPEN
September 6, 2012
David Ferrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. FERRER/J. Tipsarevic
  6‑3, 6‑7, 2‑6, 6‑3, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Can you put into words how that compares with our great matches you've played?
DAVID FERRER:   Maybe I can compare with Davis Cup.   Was very emotional match.   I enjoyed a lot playing this match with Janko ‑ of course because I won.
But it was a very emotional match, one of the best emotional matches of my career.

Q.   You are playing perhaps the best tennis of your career at age 30 this year.   Your greatest results in Grand Slams, the titles that you have won.   Talk about the way you're playing right now. 
DAVID FERRER:   Yes, of course this season was the best of all my career.   I don't know why.   Maybe because I don't have never in my career important injuries.   I am playing with very confidence.   I am older.   You know, I don't have too much pressure when I was 20 years old, no? 
I enjoying playing tennis, and I have more experience than other years.

Q.   When one of the Mount Rushmore players was eliminated yesterday, Roger Federer, do you say, This really can be my year, or just another opponent to you?   What goes through your mind when you see someone like that is eliminated and you're still in here? 
DAVID FERRER:   (In Spanish.)
Well, I saw the match yesterday of Federer and Berdych.   He played very good.   Now I am in semifinal and want to enjoy this final.   Okay, of course my next opponent is amazing player, Del Potro or Djokovic, so I will try to do my best and I will try to fight. 
Of course I will have to play my best tennis for to beat them.

Q.   Does it make an easier path or do you see this as, This is my opportunity, maybe now or never?
DAVID FERRER:   No, I don't think so.   Me, I am focused only in my next match.   I don't think if I have my last chance or my last opportunity for win the Grand Slam. 
I am in semifinal and I am enjoying this moment.

Q.   You have come through here so quietly until today.   When you walk through New York or you go out to dinner, do people know who you are here?
DAVID FERRER:   No, not too much.   (Laughter.)   No, but I don't care, no? 
Of course the people knows more Roger, Andy Murray, Djokovic, Del Potro, because they won.   They won Grand Slam or important trophies.   Not me, no? 
But I don't care.   It's perfect for me.

Q.   You took an injury timeout I believe when he was serving for the third set. 
DAVID FERRER:   Who? 

Q.   You took an injury timeout, medical timeout. 
DAVID FERRER:   I had problem with my toes, my nail, but that wasn't important.

Q.   Also you are a great player, many great wins, but you play in the era of a man named Rafa Nadal.   Talk about that. 
DAVID FERRER:   I think Rafael is very, very important for us because he's the best player of history in Spain and one of the best of the world.
I don't care is without Rafael I was the No. 1 of Spain, because I think I learn a lot with him, no, close to him.   Because I think in Spain the people are looking more tennis for Rafael in these moments, and I think it's very good for us, for the other players.

Q.   And the one thing you learned most from Rafa? 
DAVID FERRER:   I learn a lot of him.   I learned mentality, and he's very, very great person.   He's one of the best of history and he's a normal person, no? 
I think sometimes I would like to compare him, no, and to ‑‑I don't know.   I don't know the word in English, no? 
But Rafael, he is a very good person, and of course he deserve everything.

Q.   Back to today for a moment.   Four‑and‑a‑half hours; it was a spectacular match and extremely high level of play out there with an opponent who wasn't going to give in on anything.   To come through it, talk about how you feel mentally and physically having prevailed in that contest. 
DAVID FERRER:   Now I feel tired, of course, no, because I play four hours and a half.   (Laughter.)
But the match, it was very emotional.   My opponent, he deserve also to won this match, no?   In one tiebreak it's a lottery, and I had lucky in important moments. 
My respect to Janko Tipsarevic, because he's playing really good and having a really good season the last year and this year also.

Q.   Physically are you feeling that you'll be back out on court in a couple of days? 
DAVID FERRER:   I have one day to rest and one day to relax.   I have here Angel Ruiz, he's a physio of Spanish Federation, so I think I am going be good for to play Saturday.

Q.   He was up 4 to 1 in the last set.   Do you think the momentum kind of swung in your favor after he took that fall?   Seemed like you went on a little run there. 
DAVID FERRER:   4‑1 down I tried to fight always and he was serving really good.   I think I wait the moment for to break back again, no?
You know, all the players in important moments ‑ also me ‑ we are nervous when we are fight for to finally the match, no, and I know that. 
I try to fight, and because he was serving really good all the match, no?   It was not easy.

Q.   The famous story about you when you were young and you were locked in the shed, why did your coach lock you in the shed? 
DAVID FERRER:   It was only one time.   (Laughter.)   It's only one time.   You know, he lock me because I didn't want to practice, no?   When you are young, sometimes you can practice perfect every day, no? 
But it's only one.

Q.   What did you think inside the shed?
DAVID FERRER:   Nothing.   I went there, and I wait two, three hours.   I don't remember that because I was very, very young.   Long time ago.

Q.   If you reach the final, do you think it will be a phone conversation between you and Rafa?
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know.   I talk with Rafa these days like text, you know, about private conversation. 
I don't know.   I don't know.   Of course Rafael is always happy when I won matches, and of course he tells me today or if I will win Saturday I will talk with him, sure.

Q.   You heard from him today via text?   He texted you today?
DAVID FERRER:   I don't know because I don't answer the phone in these moments.   I finally end the match, I take a shower, I talk with my‑‑

Q.   No, before the match today. 
DAVID FERRER:   No, but yesterday he text me.

Q.   Did he give you advice?
DAVID FERRER:   No.   He say, Good luck.   Nothing special. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT