TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 6, 2010
Baron Batch
Lyle Leong
Colby Whitlock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. What changed defensively after the two long touchdown runs and you were able to shut them down the rest of the game?   
 COLBY WHITLOCK: We had some miscommunications on the field early. They came out and gave us some different alignments that we didn't get to see early in the week. But we got them corrected and came out and played a great game after that.  
  
  Q. Lyle, how nice was it to see Taylor do what he did tonight?   
 LYLE LEONG: Oh, man, just excited to get the win, man. You know, we worked hard and it was a blessing. I'm excited to see everybody do good. We played well as a team, so it was a good thing.  
  
  Q. Talk about the effectiveness of the running game and keeping the defense off the field and how you were able to maybe contain and control the clock?   
 BARON BATCH: Yeah, I think that was big for us. The offensive line played great. They played hard and played physical. I think they took it personal this week. They lost last week, and then came out and played physical.   
 It starts with them. Doesn't have to do much with me. You can see the other running backs got in there and were productive as well, so all the credit to the O-line.  
  
  Q. Kind of looked like the offensive line blocked and you ran with an attitude at certain points in the game. Is that how it was?   
 BARON BATCH: Yeah, that's how it's supposed to go every game, I guess, run hard and they block. But when you run the ball as much as we did, I think that's probably the most he ran all season. You know, it just wears defenses down. You could see toward the end they got tired and that helped us.  
  
  Q. You guys, so many games started off trailing, come back, tie it up, but falter late in the game. Now this one, come back, tie it up, go ahead and be able to hang on?   
 BARON BATCH: For me, I'm really proud of this senior class, first of all. I've said this time and time again that our record doesn't reflect the quality of coaching, the quality of players and the quality of anything about this program.   
 I think people get caught up thinking we were 4-4 before this game and there is something wrong. There is nothing wrong. It's just been one of those seasons that we made some mistakes and kind of shot ourselves in the foot.   
 We made mistakes this game, but we overcame them. That's why I'm so proud of these guys. Once we got down 14-0, no one gave up. No one threw it in which would have been easy to do to say let's give up. But no one did, and we fought back and it's a big win for us.   
 COLBY WHITLOCK: Like I said, it's happened a few times, and the ball just hasn't bounced our way in a couple games that have went down like this. But it is a great confidence booster to the team, for the coaches, for everybody to be able to pull that one out and come out with a W.  
 LYLE LEONG: Yeah, right along with what they said. I'm really proud of the team and how we played. We executed and did what we were coached to do. And it turned out for a win for us.  
  
  Q. Can you guys talk about the electricity in the stadium in the third quarter especially? And maybe even late in the second quarter having that touchdown drive just before the half?   
 BARON BATCH: Yeah, the stadium hasn't been like that this season. We have a lot of young guys that haven't really experienced that. So when it got like that you could see some of those guys loosen up and realize what Tech football's all about.   
 It was nice to see everybody jumping around, having fun, and not worrying about making mistakes. Just going out and playing. That was big for us, especially for some of those young guys.  
 COLBY WHITLOCK: Just like he said. We hadn't gotten to experience that this season. Once it hit, it held on our sideline and in the stadium. And I think it helped us push us through and persevere and come out with the win.  
 LYLE LEONG: Yeah, I think it was the attitude. You know, the fans, everybody knew we were going to win this game. It wasn't in doubt. So we just came out and did what we needed to do, and the fans did a great job tonight and helped us get the win.  
  
  Q. What was this experience like taking part in the Wounded Warrior Project and having the opportunity to hear from those soldiers who were in combat and speak to you guys and the whole experience today?   
 BARON BATCH: It definitely puts things in perspective of what we do and what we're blessed to do. It kind of you realize the sacrifices that other people make for us to do this. It's definitely humbling.   
 I came into this game and I was just like, man, I get to come play a game and there's people getting killed overseas. To put on these jerseys and getting to represent that, there is no quitting.   
 This one was for this cause, and it's definitely something to be excited about the way the game went. I couldn't think of any better way for how we had to fight back.   
 COLBY WHITLOCK: He answered it perfectly. I don't have anything to add to that.  
 LYLE LEONG: Me neither. It's a blessing to hear their stories and see what they've been through.  
  
  Q. Talk about what it's like when you've got four or five guys that can step in back there in any given situation and tote the load. Everyone did a pretty decent job carrying the ball tonight. How much did that take off your shoulders and maybe even Eric, when you have guys like Aaron and Harrison stepping up?   
 BARON BATCH: Well, like I said, you know, it all starts up front. As you can look at the stats, every back was pretty productive with their touches. I mean, that's just a credit to the offensive line. They did a great job as far as the running backs we have.   
 Everybody comes and we all practice hard and compete with each other. And we all know that it could be any one of us that gets hot and gets going and gets rolling and gets us started.   
 So you've got to go in the game knowing that you have to do what you're coached and it will pay off and it did.  
  
  Q. What did you guys notice when Taylor came into the game? Was there something a little different in the huddle? What did you notice, especially in the third quarter?   
 BARON BATCH: I don't think it was anything specifically that was really different, we just executed better.   
 At the beginning of the game we weren't communicating well, we had missed some calls. And I think some guys settled down and we just made plays. We ran the ball.   
 The O-line, like I said, they won the game for us. They did a great job. Without them, we wouldn't have gotten this win.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT