ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 23, 2015
Jordan Simone
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jordan, Todd said that you were going to put your surgery off until after the Cal game.
JORDAN SIMONE: Yeah.
Q. A lot of people like to get that done as quickly as possible and start the recovery process.  Why did you make that decision?
JORDAN SIMONE: I want to be there with my guys for the last game.  I thought about getting the surgery this week, but I just couldn't sit on the couch and watch my boys play and not be there and be able to help or be on a headset and talk to those guys and help coach them up.
So, yeah, wouldn't miss it for the world.
Q. Jordan, right before the start of the territorial cup, you huddled up with D.J. and Mike.  What were you telling them before the game?  Also, how special was it for them to win that game for you?
JORDAN SIMONE: Yeah, that's something we've done before every game, before we run out or whatever.  We just come together, and I think we live in the moment for that brief period of time.  We tell each other we love each other, as corny as it may sound, but those are my best friends.  We live in that moment for a second, just enjoy it.  That's something that I'll remember forever, doing that before every game.
We didn't even plan on it.  We just started in Texas A&M, and it just kind of continued every game.  Besides USC, where Berco kind of took off running.  I was like, all right, I guess we're not doing it.
Q. Jordan, when you came out for Senior Day, you kind of threw your crutches to the side and went out without them.  Can you walk us through that whole part of it?
JORDAN SIMONE: Yeah, I can walk you through that -- pun intended.  I didn't want to, when I get pictures and look back on that moment, I don't want to see me on crutches.  Took a little bit of pain walking out, but my adrenaline was rushing, so I didn't feel too much.  It was a great time, just a real special moment.
Obviously, it sucks that I couldn't play in the last game, but there's not a play from that UW game where I feel like I didn't give everything I had and leave everything out on that field every day, especially in practice the week before.  That's something our coaches always talked about, just going hard every day, and that's something I've always done.  So I have no regrets.
Q. When I talked to Todd Graham and Chris Ball, they couldn't help but mention how upbeat you are on the sidelines, even last week when the injury was very fresh, let alone against Arizona too.  Is that part of just maybe feeling the responsibility that you need to go ahead and really coach those young players and make sure that your injury is not even that much magnified every week?
JORDAN SIMONE: Yeah, we have a next man up mentality.  James and Sal and Chad, those guys have stepped up huge, especially in that second half of the UW game.  As you guys saw, they didn't score.
I'm just trying to do what I can and watch and see and go through my reasons if I was out there and try to help James or whatever it may be out there starting in the position I've played these last two years.
So they've done a great job.  Coach gives me a headset so I can hear the play call and just kind of help as much as I can.
Q. Jordan, just by chance, after the injury, I'm sure there's a variety of things that have gone on in your head.  What kind of emotional roller coaster ride has it been to kind of deal with what you've endured?
JORDAN SIMONE: Honestly, it was tough the first couple of days.  Luckily, I had my parents in town to help me out with a lot of things, making me food and all that stuff.  Having them here has been a blessing.
It's been rough just having it be my last year and not getting to play in the senior game.  I didn't get to play against U of A one time when I was here, which hurt.  But everything kind of felt better after we whupped them this weekend.  So I'm good.
Q. Jordan, how do you want your career to be remembered by Sun Devil fans?
JORDAN SIMONE: That's a good question.  I just want to be remembered as a guy that gave everything he had for his teammates and his coaches and a passionate football player that loves the game.  I owe a lot of my success to Coach Graham and Coach Ball and the players around me.
Today in our meetings, Coach Graham said, you've made a lot of plays, but it's all on the backs of the guys in front of you.  All the D-line taking up double-team blocks so I could step in and fill a hole.  Or a linebacker taking on a lead blocker so I could step up and make a play.  I owe a lot of my success to those guys and my teammates.
Q. Jordan, what lies ahead of you on the physical end to overcome the injury?  The second part, I talked to Coach Graham about this who says, ever since the injury, you haven't been one to mope or be depressed.  Just how you've gone about it to stay upbeat.
JORDAN SIMONE: I just -- I did have a couple of days there where I was starting to feel sorry for myself.  If I felt sorry for myself when I was a walk-on, I wouldn't be where I am today.  It's just another bump in the road and something I can overcome and something that is a part of my story and is going to be a part of my journey.  I'm looking forward to the challenges that this is going to give me.
I know that hard work is not going to be a problem for me.  I'm ready to put in the hard work and get better.  I'll get a chance at the next level, and I'll make it.
Q. Jordan, all your media success is well documented, but now that you've maybe delved a little more into the coaching profession, do you think that's maybe your career path rather than media?
JORDAN SIMONE: Coach Graham always tells me he wants me to be a coach, but I haven't really decided on anything right now.  My focus is on getting this knee better and training and getting ready to go to the next level and play as well as I can.  So that's the goal, and I'll worry about that stuff when the time comes.
Q. Jordan, two-part Thanksgiving question.  First off, what's your favorite part of Thanksgiving?  Secondly, what can Mike Bercovici expect from the Simone household on Thanksgiving?
JORDAN SIMONE: That's a loaded question right there.  Favorite part of Thanksgiving has just got to be being around family.  Obviously.  I haven't had a Thanksgiving in a while just because football usually takes up most of that time, but my parents do have a house out here now.  They weren't going to be here, but since I got injured, my mom has stayed just to be there for me, and I kind of guilt tripped her by saying, you're just going to leave me when I get hurt?
So she's going to stay out here and make all of us Thanksgiving dinner.  You guys are all more than welcome.  Sorry, Mom.
What can Mike expect from our Thanksgiving?  Man, he can expect a lot of food.  The Simones do it big.  Great turkey.  My mom is probably the top five best turkey maker in King County, Washington, so just a lot of good food and a lot of good laughs.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT