GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 24, 2018
Kevon Looney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obviously with DeMarcus being out, with the onset of the season there's a three-way battle for the center position that you're part of it.  How do you feel about going into that what do you think sets you apart in that three way battle?  
KEVON LOONEY: I think we all bring something different to the table at the center position.  Since I've been here we've been playing center by committee.  That's what we're going to do to start the season off.  DeMarcus is a great talent and when he's coming back we know he's going to take that spot.  But until he come back we're going to go out there and do our best and hunt it down.  I'm a good rebounder, good on switching screens good defender I'm looking to improve my offense and hopefully I can go out there show what I can do.   
 Q.  At this time last year there was speculation you might not even make the team.  So how fulfilling is it knowing what a huge role you ended up playing in a championship season?  
KEVON LOONEY: That's a great feeling.  A lot of hard work I put in last summer paid off for me during the season.  To come into training camp a lot of doubt about what I could do I stayed confident.  My teammates stayed confident.  Coach stayed confident in me and they gave me an opportunity to play.  I take full advantage of it.  And now with some of our guys leaving and DeMarcus being out, all us young guys are looking to do the same thing take advantage of the new opportunity this year.   
 Q.  What was the free agency process like for you and was there ever a chance you were thinking about going elsewhere?  
KEVON LOONEY: Free agent was new to me.  DeMarcus was really good for the big man this summer and so me knowing that going into it, when they offered me a contract I knew I wanted to come back try to do it all over again.  To be part of something special compete for a championship is something that's not always capable in every other team so I wanted to be part of something special this year.   
 Q.  Having had time to reflect on it now, how much did you learn from playing in the playoffs last season?  And then how did that influence the way that you approached your work over the summer?  
KEVON LOONEY: Playing in the playoffs was a great experience.  Learned a lot about myself and just about the atmosphere how hard it is to play in the NBA.  So this summer I wanted to continue to get better on, continue to work on my defense.  Something that got me in the game something I wanted to focus on.  And offense is going to take me to another level and what I've been working, I've been shooting on my touch and shots around the basket and free throws something I feel if I do good at that I can take another step in this league.   
 Q.  With this being the last year you guys are going to be playing at Oracle, can you think offhand what is your most memorable, will be your most memorable memory of playing at Oracle?  
KEVON LOONEY: My most memorable memory of playing at Oracle, I got a few -- I remember my first time scoring in NBA games, rookie, it was pretty big for me, something I'll never forget.  So I always keep that to heart, crowd cheering me on like I was scoring 40 or something.  So that's something I'll always remember.  And of course just the playoffs atmosphere was crazy last year for me having a chance to play and having a role in playing and winning those games at the Oracle was something I'll never forget.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT