NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS vs WARRIORS
May 30, 2018
Kevon Looney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you compare your experience so far this postseason to just sitting and watching a year ago?
KEVON LOONEY: It's been a lot different for me.  Last year really just coming in and watching and supporting. Instead I actually have a chance to have a role. Play some big minutes and try to make a difference in each game is a big deal for me.
I think the playoffs -- been different this year for our team. Last year, we went 16 and 1 throughout the playoffs.  This year we had a tougher series, tougher games.  It's been a lot of fun.  It's been great.  Makes for a better story now.  So hopefully we can carry it on with some fun.
Q. Is it hard to feel a part of things when you're just sitting?
KEVON LOONEY: You feel a part of it.  It's a little more -- I didn't feel as a part of it because I was injured.  I was sitting on the sidelines in a suit. I had times where I wasn't around the team because of rehab purposes.  But you feel a part of it, though.
I played some last year, so I felt part of the team.  I was practicing every day, so I was part of the scout team and things like that where I would help out on the team.  So I felt a part of it, but this is a different feeling being in the game and making a difference in it.
Q. Were you still banged up when the playoffs came along last year, or were you pretty much okay by then?
KEVON LOONEY: I was still banged up.  I wasn't able to play pretty much the whole playoffs.  Maybe towards the Finals I could have probably played, but the season was over by then.  So, yeah, so it's a lot different.
Q. Andre said there was a point, he thinks it was Game 7 where he was looking at the court and said, oh, I would have done this.  Then he shut that down and talked to you.  Do you know what he said?
KEVON LOONEY: Andre says a lot to me during the game.  I know I always come to him and ask him what he sees on the court.  I talk to him, D. West, Zaza when I'm coming to the bench to get some minor details.  Telling me about screening and slipping and maintaining the spacing.  That's something that he's big on telling me in the series to help me out, help our team.  So small things like that that really helped me and help our team.
Q. What has he told you in terms of guarding LeBron?
KEVON LOONEY: I haven't gotten the scoop for that yet.  I'm going to talk to him later.  I'll pick his brain about some things, about how to -- some tendencies of LeBron, the fact of the switches or small things like that to help me out.  He's one of the best defenders in the league.
Q. Have you looked at tape of what he did in 2015?
KEVON LOONEY: I haven't watched tape of what he did in 2015.  I mean, I watched it live last year.  But we've just got -- we just got the scouting report and the game plan today.  So got a lot to do tonight.
Q. What do you remember about watching against LeBron last year?
KEVON LOONEY: Just how aggressive he was with him.  You can't stop LeBron.  You got to make it tough for him.  Play him long, make it difficult, close some passing lanes.  As a big, loading up on him, just making the area crowded for him.  It's easier said than done, but he's going to make plays.
Q. How important is it to make him work the entire amount?
KEVON LOONEY: That's important.  I think if there is any star play, you want to make it difficult for them.  There are going to be times where they're hot, times when they take control of the game.  But want to make it difficult for him and make him work the whole 48 minutes, and hopefully good things will happen.
Q. You haven't guarded him yet in a game.
KEVON LOONEY: I've guarded him a little bit during the season, a couple of switches, but I never had to guard him for a long period of time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT