GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 26, 2016
Kevon Looney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Keep us updated on your hip injury.  
KEVON LOONEY: Right now I feel close to a hundred percent.  The doctor and trainer said no problems.  I've been training, no problems.  The doctor has cleared me to go to practice.  Looking forward to trying it out.  I feel comfortable and I think I'm a hundred percent.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you're able to gain much experience last season or was it do you feel like a rookie now?  
KEVON LOONEY: Yeah, it was kind like at first, I know what to expect.  So from that standpoint I know with respect to the Warriors, I'm used to that.  I didn't get to play much last year.  I've got to try my body, again.  I definitely feel like I gained some experience.   
 Q.  You said you had new hips again.  Is it awkward at all?  What is the process when you get the surgery like you did, trying to play on it?  
KEVON LOONEY: Actually it feels much better.  Before it was painful, for like two years stretches I had a lot of pain, I didn't feel comfortable doing some moves.  But I can move fast.  I can slide better.  It's great.   
 Q.  What are your hopes or goals for this season?  
KEVON LOONEY: One of my goals is getting back to the team.  It's to make an impact.  That's one of my biggest things.   
 Q.  Will you be able to get in a good amount of full speed playing with your new hip?  
KEVON LOONEY: Yes, I'll do a lot of three-on-three, one-on-one, two-on-two with the guys.  So I do feel I have no problems playing.  So I'm happy coming in and getting to training camp.   
 Q.  When do you expect to be getting into full speed, full contact game?  
KEVON LOONEY: Just getting some speed again I haven't played a live game for a long time, so just to get back in a gain some confidence.   
 Q.  You're getting a little glimpse of what it feels like to play for the Warriors, watching the championship from the sidelines, how has it been being in California and playing for Golden State?  
KEVON LOONEY: Last year was a bad year for me, personally.  But as far as team-wise, one of the best years I ever had playing basketball.  Started out 24-0, had a great run.  But it was a great ride.  As far as the West Coast, I'm excited to be staying here.  It's been great since I've been here, and I look forward to being here longer.   
 Q.  When you're a hundred percent, when you're feeling a hundred percent, what positions do you feel comfortable guarding out there?  
KEVON LOONEY: I feel comfortable pushing out on guard.  I feel pretty good.  I'll see more tomorrow.   
 Q.  There was a high school video comparing you to Kevin Durant, and now you're on the same team.  I was wondering if you were aware of that back then and how it feels now?  
KEVON LOONEY: Yeah, I was compared when I was in high school.  To be on the team, and see how he handles himself and carries himself, I watched him a long time, but to see him up close is going to be great.  After I played a little bit with him this summer, some three-on-three games, and he's a great player.  I'm looking forward to playing with him this year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT