AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: YANKEES VS ASTROS
October 11, 2019
Giancarlo Stanton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You've talked before about how much more comfortable you feel when you face pitchers a number of times. You have a good bit of history with these guys. How do you approach the three starters that you're going to see here?  
GIANCARLO STANTON: You just -- you see the way they've approached me in the past when I've had success, not had success, and really just the team approach that the Astros have. And then I build my plan from there. So you do your homework and create the plan for the series, the game. I mean, you've got to be ready for adjustments, too, mid at-bat, second half of the game, just got to be ready.   
 Q.  When you look at the Astros, their offense, their starters and their relievers, in your opinion would you agree that the bullpen of Houston seems to be the weak point, the thing that perhaps your offense could exploit more easily than their starting rotation?  
GIANCARLO STANTON: I mean, any team with over a hundred wins, there's very minimal weak points. But you've just got to chip away, have good at-bats, whoever is out there. If you don't take care of who is out there now, you're not going to get to the bullpen. If you say the starters are weak, then you've still got to battle and get through them. We go one at a time.   
 Q.  You got with this time after the 2017 ALCS and that was the first playoff experience for Judge and Sánchez. How have you seen those guys grow and be better prepared now for a situation like this?  
GIANCARLO STANTON: Yeah, it's experience. You go through it once, you go through it twice. And especially for those guys that did it here and lost here, I feel there's extra motivation and just critique little things they could have done better, and the same thing for how last year went. Little adjustments, you know what you could have done to have a better turnout and you go out there with what you've got.   
 Q.  How do you approach a pitcher like Cole and Verlander, for example, where they have that high 90s fastball and that great breaking ball? Do you have to be ready for the fast ball and then you react to the breaking ball?  
GIANCARLO STANTON: I can't give you my complete plan.   
 Q.  I can try to ask.  
GIANCARLO STANTON: You've just got to look for a good pitch to hit. They're going to give you a good pitch. But you may just get one. And then they go to their plan, their -- the way they've gotten all those punch outs. So you've got to stay in your zone. Try not to chase and really stay in your zone. They're going to pick, they're going to throw one to two balls outside the strike zone and see if you'll chase and if you will, they'll keep doing it. We've got to have our plan and have a better one than they do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT