AL DIVISION SERIES: TWINS VS YANKEES
October 3, 2019
Giancarlo Stanton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Having nine games coming into this, how do you feel timing-wise and at the plate and how ideal or not ideal is this?
GIANCARLO STANTON: I feel good. I think those games were a really good brush up for me to get going this weekend. So I feel good. The timing is there. I'm glad I could get back for those.
Q. What was your takeaway from your playoff experience last year, and do you think that can benefit you this time around?
GIANCARLO STANTON: Yeah, just how important each little detail is and understand we're not going to be perfect. We're going to make some mistakes. It's kind of the battle of the least mistakes and just be precise and just understand every little thing counts.
Q. Do you look at the playoffs as kind of an opportunity to put the regular season behind you in those frustrations? Do you kind of change the narrative of the whole season?
GIANCARLO STANTON: That's over. That's over for everyone. We won the division. The season's over. In a sense, everyone can't look back anymore. It's all one day at a time, one play at a time, and it starts tomorrow. Nothing but preparation from the season can help us now.
Q. You're on a team that traditionally relies on the home run. Was it unusual now facing the team that has hit even more home runs this year?
GIANCARLO STANTON: Yeah, it's interesting. It's cool what both our teams were able to do with the home run, along with the rest of the league. Yeah, it will be cool. Cool dynamic and big punches thrown.
Q. You went into the playoffs last year a first time, big expectations for you. James Paxton is kind of in that same situation. What would you tell him as advice or what to expect tomorrow night?
GIANCARLO STANTON: Just play his own game, not try to do something he hasn't done before, not try to be something different, prepare differently. The stakes are higher, but at the same time, if he didn't perform the way he would, he wouldn't be in this situation. So just prepare like he normally does.
Q. Giancarlo, can you describe the atmosphere in this stadium last year, what you're expecting tomorrow?
GIANCARLO STANTON: It's nuts. They really bring the heat and make it tough on the opposing team. It's great. I'm looking forward to just as loud, just as rowdy as last year. It's going to be fun.
Q. Giancarlo, with all the injuries the last two years, you, Judge, Sanchez, even Encarnacion have not had a lot of opportunities to be in the lineup together. Is there a certain anticipation from you guys in the clubhouse, as you appreciate hitting, from being able to all be in the lineup together in such a big spot?
GIANCARLO STANTON: Yeah, this is the best time to all be back. We all know what we can do individually in parts of the season. So now we're all together, and we just got to bring that big force and make sure we take care of it.
Q. Giancarlo, you had to be very patient and endure a lot of rehab to get to this moment. How did your confidence level change, or did it ever change as you were working your way back to know you could have a day like tomorrow night or a night like tomorrow night?
GIANCARLO STANTON: That was terrible for me, so I just used it as this is what I built it for. This is what I'm doing all this for and just visualize what I can do. Each day -- the tougher the day, the more repetitive the day seemed, it was all looking forward to this. So now we're here.
Q. Obviously, CC not on the roster. Did he say anything to the team about the ALDS and what you guys should do going forward or that overall mission you guys have preached since day one?
GIANCARLO STANTON: Yeah, just from everything we've gone through all year, just that we're ready. We've taken enough punches, and we're ready to go out and battle and enjoy this month. It's our turn.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT