88TH MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 11, 2017
Giancarlo Stanton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Question for Giancarlo.   
 Q.  Overall how would you sum up your All-Star experience?  
GIANCARLO STANTON: It was a lot of fun.  A lot of cool things, a lot of excitement around Miami.  A lot of build-up to it.   
So it was fun.  It was fun getting everything going.  Being around all these guys.  I'm going to take these two days and hopefully don't see anyone, don't do a dang thing.   
 Q.  Giancarlo, we talked to a lot of local fans, they loved the energy of this building.  It's not the way it always is.  What was it like with all those crazy fans screening loud?  
GIANCARLO STANTON: A lot like WBC.  Just a lot of excitement.  A lot of good energy, and fun times.  Everyone is enjoying themselves.  That's how it should be.   
 Q.  You hit 16 in the Derby.  Obviously came up one short.  I know you were struggling with energy maybe a little bit.  After the time-out did you ever get into that kind of rhythm you had hoped for?  
GIANCARLO STANTON: After the time-out I did, got a pretty good rhythm.  But I still had fun.  Doesn't matter.  Like I said originally, if I don't get out of the first, I'm still going to have fun.  If I look back dwelling on it, what's the point of being an All-Star if you're going to be mad about things?  Just have fun.   
 Q.  Some people said that in the Derby's current format, what if they changed it to where you did a top eight and maybe the top four advances on home run total with a time format, would you like to see something like that?  
GIANCARLO STANTON: Yeah, that would be pretty cool, seeing how you never know what your match-up is going to be like.  And, yeah, that would be cool to talk about.   
 Q.  Pitbull announced on Twitter that he's joining a bid to try to buy the Marlins.  What would you think of him being a part owner of the Marlins?  
GIANCARLO STANTON: Mr. 305.  Right?  Whatever happens, man.  You hear everything around here.  Whatever happens.   
 Q.  Speaking of fun, when Bour took his time-out, you came up with the donuts, where did you come up with that idea?  Spontaneous?  
GIANCARLO STANTON: He had some "Bour's Donuts" shirts made a couple of weeks ago.  All that build-up.  I was like, we have to do the Derby, we have to figure out what to do in between, and I thought of that.   
 Q.  Are you proud of him the way he performed?  
GIANCARLO STANTON: I'm really proud of him.  I told him that.  I told him make sure, like I said no matter what, have fun and enjoy the moment.  He's not going to get another chance like this, at home with that energy.  He could be in another Derby, but with the crowd behind him like that, he probably won't get another chance.   
 Q.  From getting off the plane from San Francisco to now, obviously it's been a hectic two days, but a fun two days.  What is something you'll take from this experience, not just being an All-Star again but representing this city and this team?  
GIANCARLO STANTON: Just owning it, owning everything that comes with it.  And being in your city.  And just be proud, be proud of the work I put in.  Me and Ozo (Ozuna) talked about it.  We have long grueling days, a grueling schedules sometimes.  So these are times where you sit back and be thankful for the work we put in.   
 Q.  How do you compare this All-Star experience being at home compared to your past All-Star experience?  
GIANCARLO STANTON: A lot more buzz.  A lot more people rooting for me, which is cool.  So this one was really cool, and special.   
 Q.  I know this morning you were at the Boys & Girls club event this morning and then tonight Stand Up To Cancer moment.  I wanted to ask you your thoughts about what's happened off the field and helping out in the community and this specific Stand Up To Cancer event?  
GIANCARLO STANTON: Well, that's our job.  That's our duty.  Especially when the spotlight is on brightest, which is right now.  So you have to get out there and help out the community, help out charities and push it during a time like this where there's so much buzz in the media around it to get awareness out.  So that's good that I was able to do that.   
THE MODERATOR: Thanks for your time.  Thanks for being a great ambassador for the event.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT