LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 15, 2016
Katie Burnett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Happy to be joined in the media center by the 54-hole leader, Katie Burnett.  How deep was the putt you drained to take the lead?
KATIE BURNETT: I think we had 171 yards and I hit 6-iron.  It didn't really work out the way I thought it was going to with the wind.  I thought it was going to help it a little bit more but ended up short of the green.
I had roughly 26 yards, chip, and I made it, holed it.
THE MODERATOR: So overall thoughts on your day today?
KATIE BURNETT: It was a solid round.  I just tried to stay patient.  I had a few opportunities early that I didn't -- I kind of like let slip by or just had a little bit of a lapse in mental -- you know, my process and my routine.
Then I just really focused on the back nine, just staying with my process and being patient and knowing that eventually I would make a few birdies.
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. When is the last time you led going into the final round of a tournament?
KATIE BURNETT: Probably not since college, so a while.
Q. Until today it's been so windy.  Curious what you're doing right in the wind, and what else are you doing right to get into the lead.
KATIE BURNETT: I'm doing everything pretty good.  Putting mainly.  I've made a lot of putts over the last three days.
I would usually say that's probably one of the best parts of my game is putting.  Anything inside ten feet I usually am pretty good percentage-wise from there.
I had made a couple long ones too this week.  I grew up on Bermuda and I love Bermuda greens.  I see the putts better on Bermuda.
I'm from the coast so I'm used to the wind.  I've been home for two weeks and it was really windy at home, so I have pretty much been working on a pinch shot or three-quarter shot so it doesn't get so affected by the wind.
Been doing that with my driver.
Q. Is your brother out here to watch you?
KATIE BURNETT: Not today, but he will be out here tomorrow.
Q. What does that mean for you?  He was the one that got you started in golf?
KATIE BURNETT: My grandparents actually started my brother and I.  They took both of us to a boys and girls club meeting when we were supposed to be there for 7 and up.  He was the seven year old and the only person that showed up.  I did everything he ever did as a kid.  I followed him around basically.
He played golf so I decided to do it.  I wanted to do anything he did.  He was a point guard in basketball; I was a point guard in basketball.  Pitcher, I was a pitcher in it softball.
Our grandparents said I whined and the guy said okay, She can hit some.  He's a really good golfer.  I got out here early to spend time with him and his family.  We played a couple rounds of golf before.
It's awesome to have family out here and people that are here to watch and my niece running around giving my high fives and cheering for me yesterday.
Q. Where is he stationed and what is his name?
KATIE BURNETT: Ben Burnett, and he is stationed here in Pearl Harbor.  He's in the Navy and he lives about 25 minutes from here.
Q. I think you had a top 10 here couple years ago.  With the wind and the Bermuda, does it feel like playing at home?
KATIE BURNETT: Yeah, definitely.  I mean, like you said, I've had some success here.  I really like the golf course.  I think it sets up really well for my game.
Last year just didn't necessarily work out.  You know, to me, if you're not hitting like a really good three-quarter shot or really in command of your ball flight, the wind can wreak havoc on the ball.
The last two weeks I've been really working on that shot.  I think for the most part the ball is going where I want it to.  Going Julie.
THE MODERATOR: Anything else?  Great playing out there.  Best of luck tomorrow.
KATIE BURNETT: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT