LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 14, 2016
Katie Burnett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's been the key for your solid first two rounds this week?
KATIE BURNETT: I putted really well and we've been really decisive on like targets and I've hit a ton of knock-downs.  Maybe hit a handful of actually full shots.  Pretty much everything has been a knock-down just to keep the ball a little straighter in the wind.
Q. How tough is it to be decisive with the wind blowing like it has been?
KATIE BURNETT: Honestly, I like the wind.  I'm from the coast, so I actually prefer to play when it's a little windy.
I think actually probably if you look at my finishes, probably have played better in those tournaments that have been windy because it makes you be really committed.
You have to make a decision and go with it and be committed, otherwise the wind is going to wreak havoc on the ball.
Q. Leading up to this tournament, anything you focused on in particular?
KATIE BURNETT: I didn't play unfortunately in ANA, which kind of was disappointing.  One of my favorite tournaments.
So I went home for two weeks.  Like I said, I'm from the coast, so knowing it was going to be windy here, I pretty much worked on my knock-down for two weeks.
Q. Give you a little bit of confidence coming in here to have that preparation?
KATIE BURNETT: Yeah.  It was good.  Like it was motivating not to get into ANA as well.  Disappointing, but also motivating to go home and be at home watching a tournament when I thought I should have been there.  You know what I mean?
So worked really hard on that knock-down, and basically just tried to come out here and be committed.
Q. No bogeys today, right?
KATIE BURNETT: Uh-uh.
Q. Yesterday was a little bit up and down.  Are you able to take those...
KATIE BURNETT: Yeah, I mean, three of the four bogeys yesterday were kind of silly, not necessarily due to the wind.  One was a 3-putt and pretty simple up and down that I didn't get up and down.
Just today I -- I don't think I hit it as well today, but I didn't make any dumb mistakes.  The misses I had today ended up being misses in the right place.
Q. How excited are you to be in the final group in one of the final two rounds of the event this week?
KATIE BURNETT: It's exciting, but I'm not going to try and get too excited about it.  There are 36 holes left and the wind can pick up here, so anything can happen.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT