RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 30, 2015
Katie Burnett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Pretty good round, got to feel pretty good about that.   
KATIE BURNETT: Yeah, I can't ever really complain about eight birdies. I made a few putts and I hit it close a couple times and took advantage of three of the four par 5s. I found a couple pot bunkers.   
   
 Q. What was kind of the key out there? Why do you think you had eight birdies today? What was working?   
KATIE BURNETT: I put myself in the majority of the holes in a good position off the tee and then I played a little bit more conservatively than I normally do. Just because some of the greens, there's really no point to go towards the flag.  
And then a couple of them, I made two long putts on those that I played conservatively. I hit a couple within‑‑ I think I hit two shots within a foot and then I 2‑putted the par 5s. So I just played well basically and putted really well.   
   
 Q. How do you assess this year? Had some good finishes and improvement from last year for sure. How do you assess this year so far?  
KATIE BURNETT: It's progress. I'm not 100 per cent happy with the way I've played, but it's better‑‑ like you said, it's better than last year. So definitely improving, and you've just kind of got to look at it that way as progressing. It's good progress.   
   
 Q. It's not often you see players win on Tour sometimes outside of the Top‑20 in the world, but here in major championships, here at the British last year, Mo wins, she had never had a Top‑10 in a major. Does that give you confidence heading into the weekend or this week that you can do it, too?   
KATIE BURNETT: Yeah, with the British, anybody can win the British because the conditions are crazy. Sometimes it can solely depend on what draw you got and the weather. Like today, for example, we had probably a stretch of like four or five holes where there really wasn't much wind.   
So that was helpful on a couple of the holes. But yeah, that's one of the things I love about the British is the crazy conditions. You never know what you're going to get; and the fact that pretty much anybody can win it.  
   
 Q. How much more was it blowing out there by the ocean than it was on the inland holes? Was it any different?   
KATIE BURNETT: That was right about the time for me that the wind kind of died down a little bit. Like the 10th, it was still blowing and then the 11th and 12th, 13th, kind of died down. But it was definitely blowing harder 8, 9 and 10.  
   
 Q. Does growing up at Sea Island and the coast, does that prepare you for this week better than most?   
KATIE BURNETT: I would say so. It's always windy where I live. Our range is right on the ocean so I'm used to it being windy. I like the wind. I like to shape shots in the wind‑‑ with the wind; not against the wind. But yeah, I would say so.   
   
 Q. What's the key in the wind? What are you thinking about when you are out there in the wind?   
KATIE BURNETT: You just have to really commit to a target and then hope the wind pushes it, and if it doesn't, you have to just be happy with‑‑ you can't get too frustrated. Kind of have to let your‑‑ have some faith in that the wind is going to move your ball.   
   
 Q. What's the next progression as a player? What's it going to take?   
KATIE BURNETT: It's week‑to‑week. Some weeks it's ball‑striking. Some weeks it's putting. Some weeks, it all kind of depends on the week. Last week I played well but I did not hit the ball well. I had a good short game last week. This week I seem to be hitting the ball better. You never know.   
   
 Q. And what's your plan for the weekend‑‑ plan for tomorrow and hopefully the weekend?   
KATIE BURNETT: Just relax the rest of the afternoon and get ready for tomorrow.   
   
 Q. Feeling pretty good about being in contention in a major?  
KATIE BURNETT: Yeah, it's only day one, so we'll see. We'll see how it goes.  
   
 Q. You had eight birdies. Is it pretty easy to get after it if you hit good shots? Is it scorable if you play well?   
KATIE BURNETT: Yeah, and if the wind is not blowing, I think it's fairly scorable. All of the par 5s are reachable, pretty easily reachable with the direction the wind is blowing today; I think it's supposed to be opposite tomorrow.  
And then with this direction, too, it makes some of the holes‑‑ if you hit good tee shots, you have wedges in. But there are plenty of very difficult holes out there.   
   
 Q. Heading into this week, it seems like that 15‑under was what Karrie won at and we are only playing two yards longer than 2002. Did you know 7‑under would be leading after today? Did you think it was going to take something like that to win here?  
KATIE BURNETT: I had no idea honestly and I had not looked at what won here previously. I thought 5‑under was going to be a pretty good score after round one.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT