U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 5, 2012
Katie Burnett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your play overall and how comfortable you felt out there in your first U. S. Open?
KATIE BURNETT:   I was a little uncomfortable to begin with.   Took me about four holes to calm down.   But I felt really good about my game coming into it.   I was hitting the ball really well once I calmed down a little bit.   So I can't complain.   I played really well.

Q.   What was the key to the day?   I mean what did you do really, really well?
KATIE BURNETT:   I putted really well, but I hit my irons good.   Driver was pretty good for the most part.   But I putted really well.

Q.   Was this just nerves being the first Open or what were you thinking going to the first tee?
KATIE BURNETT:   I was trying going to the first tee and then I blocked it way right and I was like, whew.   But it was just a little bit of nerves. 
But I played high level before in NCAAs and stuff like that, but never this big of a tournament.   So just a little bit nervous.   And finally I calmed down about the third or fourth hole.   Said it's just golf.   My caddie was like it's just golf, just calm down.

Q.   Could you tell us about the birdies, where you made them and what you did?
KATIE BURNETT:   Give me a second.   I have to remember.   Birdied number ‑‑ I can't even remember now.   Made a lot of one‑putts I can't really remember now. 

Q.   Take your time. 
KATIE BURNETT:   I know I made a long putt on I think it was No. 5.   I hit a 5‑iron, probably five, six feet short of the flag, and it rolled out.   I probably had like a 30‑footer downhill.   Luckily it hit the hole. 
And then I birdied ‑‑ I was on the back.   No. 14.   I don't even remember what number 14 is now.     

Q.   It's been a long day. 
KATIE BURNETT:   Yeah.   It's been a long day.   It's hot out there, too.   I think it was a pretty close putt.   Maybe ten feet, something like that. 

Q.   I understand you played in Michigan last week to kind of warm up and that went well, too?
KATIE BURNETT:   Yes.   I played really well there.   Thought it was a really good tournament to play right before I came here because I didn't want this to be my first professional event.   And I thought the course set up really well for preparing me for this course.   It was really tight.   The rough was pretty tall.   Hit the ball really well there. 

Q.   What did you win by?   I understand you won by ten, but what was your score?
KATIE BURNETT:   I shot 11‑under.

Q.   How many holes?   54?
KATIE BURNETT:   Yes.   54.

Q.   Since you're obviously golfing in South Carolina you're used to heat, but was this a little draining, especially the length of the round and everything.   What was it like sort of the physical toll?
KATIE BURNETT:   Like you said, I'm pretty used to the heat, but it started to get pretty warm towards the end and I was probably drinking at least a bottle of water or Gatorade almost every hole.   Getting really hot when we started to wait on the last couple holes.

Q.   Is it the hard ‑‑ harder the course or the heat to deal with?
KATIE BURNETT:   Probably equal, equally tough, the heat and the golf course. 

Q.   Are you thinking about maybe going to Sweden for a year or two and then coming back?   Or if you continue to play this well do you think you oughta stick around?
KATIE BURNETT:   Yeah.   It all depends on how Q‑School goes.   I'm going to try and qualify for both LPGA and European Tour.   Based on how that goes, I may stay here or may go over there for a little while and come back.

Q.   Did you try to qualify for the U. S. Open before this year?
KATIE BURNETT:   I think I've tried three times.

Q.   Three times.   And this is the first one?
KATIE BURNETT:   Uh‑huh.   I think I was first or second alternate two years ago.

Q.   You probably imagined what a round at the U. S. Open would be like.   Was it your expectations?
KATIE BURNETT:   Yeah.   I really can't complain.   I played really well.   I don't think I could have played much better.   I made a lot of really good putts, you know, miscued a couple.   Had a couple miscues, but other than that, I can't complain.   This is kind of a round what I thought I might shoot coming into it because I've been playing really well, and I really like the golf course.

Q.   Apparently you like the greens and people have been talking about the greens leading up to this, how big and undulating they are, so you must have lag putted pretty well. 
KATIE BURNETT:   Yeah, I did.   I hit a few by, but I made them coming back, but coming into it my first practice round and stuff I was really uncomfortable on the greens because I didn't really see the slopes.   I didn't really see them breaking that much, and something that looked flat to me would break a lot.   But I've played the course four times now, so I've played two real practice rounds, two 18 holes and then two nine holes, and between yesterday and the day before I started to really see the putts. 

Q.   There's a lot of amateurs in this field.   You're playing as a professional.   Was that always your plan is to play four years of college and to just sort of take your time with your golf as compared to what a lot of kids do today?
KATIE BURNETT:   Yeah.   I mean definitely, that's just the dream.   I just kept telling my caddie, my golf instructor just to live in the dream, try to have fun out here.   That was kind of always the plan to go to school for four years and get the degree and then turn pro after that.

Q.   What about the number of amateurs in the field, though?   Does it surprise you?   You're a younger player and yet you're definitely not one of the youngest by any stretch with the 13‑year‑olds and 15‑years old. 
KATIE BURNETT:   Yeah.   It's definitely surprising.   I think the amount of amateurs in it.   It's nice, too.   You get the younger players playing a lot better. 
You know, it's starting to get really competitive in women's golf and it's really good for the sport.

Q.   What's it feel like to be standing up there today with your name on a leaderboard in your tournament representing your country?
KATIE BURNETT:   It's pretty exciting.   I'm pretty happy about it.   But you know, I always say you can't win on the first day.   So we'll see what happens the rest of the week. 

Q.   Congratulations.   Thank you for your time. 
KATIE BURNETT:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT