JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 15, 2017
Rick Lamb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Put together a heck of a round out there today of taking us through the eagle on 14.  
RICK LAMB: Just hit a really good tee shot just trying to get somewhere -- keep it left of the pin just because of swell down there, the runoff.   
Ended up pin high about 25 feet.  Figured I would give it and run, and went in.   
 Q.  Before today, 67 was your best rounds on the PGA TOUR.  At what point today did it creep into your mind that something special could be happening?  
RICK LAMB: Probably when I made that eagle.  Things felt pretty good and started making a couple putts.  Hit my irons better today, which helped a lot.   
Just kind of tried to keep the gas pedal down.   
 Q.  It's a season that definitely could us a bright spot, this round being one of them.  But what do you felt like has come together?  
RICK LAMB: I think my ball striking has been a lot better.  Usually that's a strength in my game.  Hit my tee shots really well this week so far.  Irons were a lot better today than they were the first two days.  Made a couple putts; took advantage of good shots.   
 Q.  Finally, knowing what's on the line, not only a win but a trip across the pond, how do you expect yourself to play tomorrow?  
RICK LAMB: Obviously would love to play well.  I think just don't want to be cliche, but one shot at time and keep playing good golf and keep doing what I did today.   
 Q.  Talk about the round today.  Nice push by you on moving day.  
RICK LAMB: Yeah, obviously 8-under will help you out a little bit on moving day.  Nice to get things going in that direction.   
 Q.  Did it start early for you, maybe even on the range?  Feel like you had that in you?  
RICK LAMB: I feel like I've been hitting it well all week.  Didn't hit my irons well the first two days.  Finally kind of got that dialed in yesterday on the range.  Felt pretty comfortable going into the round.   
Got off to a pretty good start.  Had a good look on every hole on my front nine and took advantage of pretty much all of them.   
 Q.  How important was it to get in contention, where you are now?  
RICK LAMB: Obviously you want to be in contention every week, so I mean, I wouldn't say it's an important thing, but it's something you look to do every week.   
I haven't been in contention a lot this year, so it's nice to be there.   
 Q.  (Regarding back nine; his first nine.)  
RICK LAMB: My first nine, just my irons were a lot more dialed in, like I said.  Took advantage and made couple putts here and there.   
That eagle on 14 was huge.   
 Q.  Given your FedExCup spot, how critical is tomorrow, keeping this going?  
RICK LAMB: I think it's big, but just another day on the golf course.  You're not thinking about every -- it's not like you're grinding on the leaderboard saying, Oh, I need to make to putt to get to this position.   
Obviously you want to be in the top 125, but I'm more trying to win the tournament than think about FedExCup.   
 Q.  With the way you finished yesterday, how do you hit the reset button and get off to the start you did today?  
RICK LAMB: Probably just go get in the gym a little bit with my trainer, blow off a little steam, hit couple balls, and get a good dinner.   
 Q.  When you get off to a quick start like that, how do you stay in the moment?  
RICK LAMB: Tough to say.  I mean, these kind of days just kind of have it.  You don't really think about it.  You just kind of keep going.   
After the first nine holes I was 6 -under and kind of realized I was playing well and wanted to keep to t going.  Sometimes I guess you kind of wake up and say, Hey, I'm 6-under, and start trying to protect it a little bit.   
I was more concerned about -- I was hitting it good.  I wanted to keep firing at flags and keep making putts.   
 Q.  Did you think sub-60 at any stage?  
RICK LAMB: Yeah, after I made the birdie on the 4th hole, which is my 13th, I think I was 9-under.  At that point, kind of crept in my mind.  Wasn't something I was nervous or worried about.  Just if I keep it going, it's got a chance.   
Obviously got to get to 10 and then 11.   
 Q.  Are there holes here that play to the advantage of the left-hander?  
RICK LAMB: I don't know.  I mean, I've been hitting my tee ball great all week.  I wouldn't say that necessarily there is.  If you're hitting your tee shots well, doesn't matter what side of the ball you're standing on.   
Some of the rough can be penalizing; some spots are all right.  For the most part, if you're in the fairways you're not having any problems.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT