NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: GIANTS v PHILLIES
October 23, 2010
Andres Torres
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions for Andres Torres.   
  
  Q. What was it like on the plane yesterday? Was it happy? Was it nervous? Was it like a normal flight in the regular season? What was it like?  
 ANDRES TORRES: Yeah, we're fine. We just come here and we're relaxed and we're ready for this game. And we just enjoy it, like every day have fun, and be ready for today.  
  
  Q. You had a much better game the last game than earlier in the series. Was there something specific you did or changed, or did balls just fall for you better?  
 ANDRES TORRES: I've been trying to stay calm and relaxed. When I get kind of a little bit excited, I try and control myself. Sometimes I go out there, try to get too much energy and things like that.  
 Right now, in this kind of series, I try to relax and see the ball, because before I was trying to go out there and jump everything before seeing the ball.   
 You have to see the ball to hit it. Right now I'm just trying to be calm and try to do my best to get on base.  
  
  Q. Would it have helped the team to see Roy Oswalt just the other night in his relief appearance, get just a little bit more look at him?  
 ANDRES TORRES: Yeah, he's aggressive. He attacks the zone and we just have to be patient and get a good pitch.   
 He's got a great fastball, moves the ball around. We try to be patient, try to swing good pitches, and go out there and have fun and enjoy and stay relaxed.  
  
  Q. When you played against Andres in game -- I mean against Oswalt in Game 2 here, he just kept throwing that high and away fastball. You kept swinging at it, swinging at it. Is that a hard pitch not to swing at because of the way it looks like when it comes in?  
 ANDRES TORRES: Like I say, you have to hit. You need to try to hit good pitches, especially throwing -- he was throwing 94 high and away. It's hard to get to that ball.   
 Just try to work to be selective and try to get a good pitch to hit, because, like I said, he was throwing a lot of high fastballs, and I was trying to swing strikes. And I think it's going to be better.  
  
  Q. How is your timing right now compared to how it was maybe in August, early September, before you were gone for those two weeks?  
 ANDRES TORRES: I feel great. Right now, to be honest with you, I feel comfortable and I do my best to get on base. And with the changes, I've been trying to be calm and patient. That's something big. Especially first time between the playoffs, adrenaline, all those kind of things, you calm. And I have been learning how to calm myself.  
 And that's a big key, not just for me, for everybody, just go out there, try to relax, breathe, and good things are going to happen.  
  
  Q. During the regular season, Bruce talked about you as a Gold Glove candidate, a potential, get somebody with that kind of talent. How does that make you feel and what do you think -- how much pride do you take in your defense?  
 ANDRES TORRES: Yeah, that's the key. Like I said, playing defense, that's something we have to play, especially when you've got good pitching. And definitely it makes a big part. And I just try to go out there and don't think about it, just try to catch the ball and make good plays and try to help my team win somehow playing defense.  
  
  Q. Jonathan's turn has come up in a lot of big games here. Here's another really big one. What do you expect from him? What have you seen from him lately that maybe he's a little different than he was mid-season or beginning of the season?  
 ANDRES TORRES: He's really being himself. He's great. He's positive. He's ready. He told me yesterday and today: I'm ready for this game. I've been waiting for this.   
 And he's a great pitcher, but the big thing for him, he's just positive. He knows what he got and what he can do on the mound. All we have to do is support him because he's going to be ready.  
  
  Q. You told us earlier in the season that Pablo helped you hitting, especially left-handed swing, when he struggled during the season, did you help him at all? And, if so, how?  
 ANDRES TORRES: Yeah, like, Pablo helped me a lot, to be honest with you, and I just told him try to be calm, like relax. Like I was doing -- every time I get in trouble, you see we want to go there. You can look at us. We get desperate and we just want to jump.  
 When those things happen, you have to relax. Pablo, I told him he's a great hitter. Just believe in yourself and be patient and get good pitches to hit. But sometimes we get in a slump, we want everything to speed up and everything so quick that things go so quick that you have to tell yourself take it easy and just get a good pitch and see the ball and you'll be fine.  
  
  Q. How much is there a comfort factor knowing that there could be a Game 7? Or is the mood in the clubhouse: This is a must-win game; let's finish it tonight?  
 ANDRES TORRES: We're positive. We've come here to fight. Philly has a great team. Like I said, we respect everybody, and like: Oh, them, we're going to go there and fight and play and try to win, try to do the best.   
 We're trying to do the best. Just go out there and do the best and we're going to play hard.  
  
  Q. You said about ten times here relax. How do you do that?  
 ANDRES TORRES: I try, to be honest with you. That's hard for me to try to relax, because I'm saying this, especially like me, I'm kind of a hyper guy and just try to be relaxed. Because, like I say, everything goes so quick that you go to the home plate and then you get an out and somebody say what happened to this at-bat?   
 That's why a lot of players in the clubhouse and friends, everybody tell you try to take it easy, because you sometimes -- like me, they've been telling me, everybody, like I look too much like trying to do too much.   
 That's why I'm talking about to relax, because when you try to do too much, it doesn't work.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT