FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
March 28, 1995
Anna Smashnova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Nice start for you.
 
ANNA SMASHNOVA:  Yep. 
 

Q.  Is that what you were looking for to get off to a good start like this?
 
ANNA SMASHNOVA:  No.  Well, I want to win the match definitely, but I think that Zina didn't play her best tennis today.  She didn't have her day today.  I was fortunate to win, I'll say that. 
 

Q.  Have you played her before?
 
ANNA SMASHNOVA:  No, it's the first time. 
 

Q.  When you won the first set, apparently so easily, what were you thinking then, that it was going to be a very easy day today?
 
ANNA SMASHNOVA:  A bit tight, a bit nervous, maybe because it was the first match and it was center court and it was unusual for me because I don't play that many in the center court. 
 

Q.  But when it was 4-All in the third and you broke her, describe that game, what was happening?
 
ANNA SMASHNOVA:  I wanted to win very much.  I mean, I really wanted to win.  I was ready to do anything.  Just fight 'till the end. 
 

Q.  What was your feeling when she kept tying it up on you, getting it back to duece?
 
ANNA SMASHNOVA:  I just kept trying and trying. 
 

Q.  Was it frustrating though to get to a certain point and have her get --
 
ANNA SMASHNOVA:  Kind of.  It is much nicer to win quicker, sure, but at the same time it's like competition.  It's fun to compete. 
 

Q.  Did you feel the match going back and forth throughout when you were out there?
 
ANNA SMASHNOVA:  Maybe, yeah.  But actually, first set I won quite easy and second she won quite easy, but the third it was game to game. 
 

Q.  What was it about the second set, what was she able to do to get back into that match?
 
ANNA SMASHNOVA:  Well, I played a little bit tight, she played better.  I mean, she came in more, had a few very nice shots.  She didn't really play her best tennis today, so that's why I won the first set.  I was playing unbelievable, she didn't play very well. 
 

Q.  Do you get kidded about your name and the fact that you're a tennis player?
 
ANNA SMASHNOVA:  I had many people ask me what do you think. But it means something in English like smash, but it doesn't mean anything in Russian.  So in Russian it's just a name. 
 

Q.  You don't try to live up to your name then by hitting the ball real hard?
 
ANNA SMASHNOVA:  Well, yeah, I have to improve this part. 
 

Q.  That kind of take you by surprise when people start asking you questions like that about your name?
 
ANNA SMASHNOVA:  Yeah, a lot of people ask. 
 

Q.  You get that every time now?
 
ANNA SMASHNOVA:  Yeah. 
 

Q.  Did you feel any sort of intimidation coming up against a 12th rank player at this tournament?
 
ANNA SMASHNOVA:  No, I just -- like, I just went and played tennis.  I didn't think who was on the other side, I  just played tennis. 
 

Q.  Any special techniques that you used against her?
 
ANNA SMASHNOVA:  Well, yeah, I knew how she was playing so I had some tapes. 
 

Q.  What kind of stuff did you do?
 
ANNA SMASHNOVA:  Well, I knew she was very good on grass courts and fast courts, and she would come in and so I had to keep the ball in play and just basic stuff. 
 

Q.  Are you comfortable with playing on this type of clay or is this a little bit faster?
 
ANNA SMASHNOVA:  It's the first time I play on this clay. I like red clay, that's what I grew up on.  And this is the first time I play this clay, so it's taking me some time.  But it's slower than the hard courts, so I prefer it. 
 

Q.  Thank you.
 
ANNA SMASHNOVA:  Thank you. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT