SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: FLORIDA VS ALABAMA
November 28, 2016
Shaun Dion Hamilton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Before we take questions, Shaun, can you just give us your general thoughts on the game Saturday.   
SHAUN DION HAMILTON: To go up against this SEC team, to get a win, it's just really big for us.   
 Q.  Shaun, just what are your early impressions so far of Florida's quarterback, Austin Appleby?  
SHAUN DION HAMILTON: He's a good quarterback, makes good decisions, does a good job putting the ball in his playmakers' hands.  It's going to be important that the DBs come out on Saturday and keep the receivers cut off and the defensive line contained.   
 Q.  And you guys were on such a streak of scoring defensive touchdowns.  When you go a few games when it hasn't happened, how hungry do you all get as far as that regard again?  
SHAUN DION HAMILTON: We're definitely hungry because we haven't gotten that many turnovers in the past few games.  That's one thing that's very important, to have a positive turnover ratio.  It's going to be important in this game that hopefully we can get more turnovers and put some points on the board.   
 Q.  Shaun, when Jeremy was at Georgia, the players used to always talk about the simplicity of his scheme, and it sounds like the same thing's coming from you guys.  What does he do to make it so simple, and how does that help you in particular?  
SHAUN DION HAMILTON: Coach Pruitt does a good job of making sure everybody is on the same page and just through practice -- Monday through Thursday, he puts in a lot of plays.  By the time Saturday comes, he simplifies it enough to where we don't have a lot of mental mistakes on Saturday.  So that prevents big plays and things like that.  That just shows what kind of coordinator he is and can help his players out.   
 Q.  And I know you guys aren't one to brag about the way the last few games have gone publicly, but at least inside the locker room, is there kind of an ongoing competition to keep this run of no touchdowns going?  
SHAUN DION HAMILTON: I mean, a lot of guys really don't even know about it.  I found out about it on Friday, but we take pride in stopping teams.  We just need to have a good week of practice this week, and hopefully on Saturday, we can just go out and play ball.   
 Q.  Shaun, a couple questions.  One first about Jonathan Allen.  Just what kind of a force is that guy up front?  I mean, playing behind him, what do you see during the games?  
SHAUN DION HAMILTON: Well, you know Jonathan Allen is a great teammate and a great leader.  He's a guy that comes ready to work every day at practice, and his practice habits translate to the field on Saturday.  So I'm glad he's on our team and not some other team.   
 Q.  And Antonio Callaway from the Gators, what do you see from him when he gets the ball in his hands?  He seems like the most explosive kind of guy the Gators have.  
SHAUN DION HAMILTON: Oh, yeah, he's definitely a dangerous guy.  It's going to be important that we keep him under control on Saturday.  I know he had a big return against us last year.  Just shows us what kind of playmaker he is.  It will be important that we stop him on Saturday.   
 Q.  Shaun, one of Florida's players went as far as to call this game a minor league NFL game, just in terms of the draft-caliber players that are going to be on the field on Saturday.  When you get to this stage of the season, do you almost expect that to be the case no matter the opponent you face?  
SHAUN DION HAMILTON: When you play in the SEC, every game is like that.  The SEC is, I feel like, the best conference in college football.  Every Saturday when we line up, we know that we're facing guys who are going to be playing on Sundays.  Playing here week in and week out will definitely help us out in the game on Saturday.   
 Q.  What's the most impressive thing you've seen Jonathan do as a player?  
SHAUN DION HAMILTON: I would probably say the Texas A&M game when he jumped over the defender and Superman'ed and sacked the quarterback.   
 Q.  You were probably right there near that play, but was that one you had to watch on film?  And did you guys in the film room watch it again and again and again?  
SHAUN DION HAMILTON: Yeah, no doubt.  When I watch the play over and over again, it's emotional.  I'm like, wow, it's a crazy play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT