NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 22, 2013
Anthony Nelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Tony, this one went down the wire.   You had to come from behind.   Tell us about the big finish.   
ANTHONY NELSON:   You know, I had to score there and he was look to go hang out there.   I tried taking his leg and turned it into a good scramble and I was able to circle out and almost got him to his back, but I got two.  
   
 Q.   You said it earlier, after your semifinals you were pretty sure he was going to pick neutral.   He did, but you were behind him in a position and you got scored on earlier in the match.   Were you confident you were going to pick that up?   What was going through your head?   
ANTHONY NELSON:   I haven't been there very often this year.   I'm counting on what we have done, our training.   I know I can score and I just went out there, took a shot, took a risk and came out on top.   
   
 Q.   Anthony, why are you so dangerous on top?   
ANTHONY NELSON:   I've been able to ride a lot of guys this year and good guys.   Last two times I wrestled‑‑ I was able to ride him out.   
Several guys I have been able to ride out this year, so it just shows that guys know not to go on the bottom.   
   
 Q.   As the defending champ, was it difficult to come into this tournament with‑‑ obviously, there is going to be a target on you.   People want to knock off the champ and your weight class with a lot of talent in it.   Is it different this year than the process you went through last year when you won it?   
ANTHONY NELSON:   It's different.   Coming in as the defending champ all those guys against you, thee wrestle different.   They want to keep things close and they want to be the guy to beat you.   Going out there, we are able to do this again and be back in the finals is just fun.   I'm excited to see what I can do tomorrow night.   
   
 Q.   Michael McMullen won his match, one of the most athletic heavy weights, your style, will it change going into the finals match?   
ANTHONY NELSON:   I wrestled him in the Big 10 finals and wrestled him last year.   I won't change things up, just do the things I do and try and go out there and win.   
   
 Q.   Anthony, what has happened in the weight class that you're more athletic?   You're not just big guys lumbering around anymore.   
ANTHONY NELSON:   A lot of guys coming in, it's 285, but most guys you see are rarely 285.   So 250, 230 in that range, a lot of athletic heavy weights, makes it more fun to watch, some of the big guys out there are hard to move.   
THE MODERATOR:   Tony, thanks for coming in so fast.   Let you catch your breath.   Congratulations, and good luck in the finals.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT