ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 19, 2018
Dave Doeren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DAVE DOEREN: It's good to be back into game week.  A lot of thoughts and prayers have gone out to people in the Carolinas and all people affected by Hurricane Florence, and I know our players did the best they could in a tough situation with our staff.  And good to be back in the routine here at the school here this week and getting ready for our first game against Marshall, a very storied program off to a 2-0 start, a team that has a lot of experience, 17 of their 22 starters back, and one of the top winning percentages for home wins in college football.  Looking forward to playing them and getting back into it and seeing where we're at.   
Obviously you want to see your progress as a football program week in and week out, and having an unexpected week off gave us a chance to pause and look back but also lose some time on the field.  You feel like you're in a little bit of a catch-up mode as you prepare, and I know the guys are excited to get on the road and go play a really good team.   
 Q.  I was wondering if you could recall how you guys discovered Larrell Murchison and what has his development meant to your defensive line this season?  
DAVE DOEREN: Larrell is doing really well.  He originally was committed to Georgia.  We knew about him.  At the time we didn't know if we would take another defensive lineman.  I don't know what happened down there, if they filled up or over-signed, but about two days before signing day I got a call and talked to their coaches at Lewisburg about him.  And obviously being an in-state guy and we had a need and a scholarship open at that point in time, so just tried to do the best I could in a short window because we didn't have time to bring him on campus.  But he knew a lot of State people, his family knew a lot of State people.  He grew up not far from here and was able to get a lot done in a short period of time.  He actually didn't sign on signing day.  If you guys remember, he came up the week after so he could look at everything and make sure, but really excited he's here, and we were able to redshirt him last year and he was able to learn behind Justin Jones and B.J. Hill and has gotten bigger.  He was about 285 when he got here, and he's close to 300 now, and really playing fast and just fun to watch a guy improve week in and week out.  He is by far the most quick twitch interior defensive lineman, and his upside still hasn't been seen yet.  I think watching him in practice yesterday was one of his better days on the field.  So excited to continue to see him grow.   
 Q.  This week the ACC and the College Football Playoff are celebrating Extra Yard For Teachers.  What role have teachers played in your life?  
DAVE DOEREN: Played a huge role.  Had a lot that -- a lot of them I looked up to, and some of my teachers were my coaches, too, in basketball and football growing up, and just were role models, were mentors.  A lot of the words that they spoke to me stuck.  I had one teacher tell me that I couldn't do something one time, and that stuck, and really enjoyed getting an A in that class and proving that teacher wrong.  But that motivation was huge in my life at the time.  I needed to hear it.  And other teachers who have ended up being lifelong friends.  They have a huge impact, have the ability to change lives, and some of them I think do an incredible job of that.   
As somebody in that position in football, because I do think football coaches are teachers, I think that's one of the greatest things you have is that gift of helping somebody grow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT