NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 11, 2017
Dave Doeren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NC State - 17, Boston College - 14   
 Q.  What a difference a game makes?  
DAVE DOEREN: Yeah, I mean, you recruit guys like that for a reason, and when you get a difference-maker with a heart of a champion, like Nyheim's, it matters.  Like I said, after the Notre Dame game, it's a different football team, and you don't have him.  But not only did we have him, but we have him back healthy, and I'm excited about that with two in-State games.   
 Q.  Did you know during the week he was moving around better?  Seemed like in warm-ups he looked better?  
DAVE DOEREN: Yeah, Sunday when I saw him I said, how are you compared to last Sunday, and he it's not even close.  We didn't practice him Tuesday.  Gave him one extra day, then he went full speed Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and felt good about it.   
 Q.  What can you do heading into the Wake Forest game next week?  What are some things you have to shore up?  Obviously field goals and turnovers, but is there anything specifically that you're looking ahead to?  
DAVE DOEREN: Can I enjoy today?   
 Q.  Oh, 24 hours, of course.  
DAVE DOEREN: We'll talk about Wake Forest next week.   
 Q.  These guys always give you a -- you're up 10-7, and what were you trying to do with the lateral back to Ryan?  
DAVE DOEREN: We had a double pass on, and unfortunately it was very poorly executed by us, and it was a throwback and just bad timing.  Called trick play and sometimes bad things happen.  That was really unfortunate to turn the ball over and put our defense in that kind of a situation.   
 Q.  Bradley actually became your --  
DAVE DOEREN: All-time leading sack leader.  We just gave him the game ball.  That's pretty special when you talk about the D-linemen that N.C. State's had and Mario Williams, the first overall pick.  For him to now be better statistically, to be called the All-Time greatest defensive lineman at N.C. State is a big thing.  That's why he came back.   
That Chubb patch now that he has No. 9 might change down the road somewhere.  We might be wearing his number.  It's pretty neat.   
 Q.  Do you feel there is a weight off your shoulders now coming off back-to-back losses to really talented teams that you have a win now under your belt again?  
DAVE DOEREN: It's always good to get a winning taste back.  Our goal at the end of last week was to try to get to seven wins in the ACC, which has never been done.  It's a great goal, it's a lofty goal.  We knew we had to beat a very good football team here today that was playing for bowl eligibility on Senior Day with a week off.  So that was a tough football game right there.  Fortunate to come home with a win.   
 Q.  I don't know the break down of the rushing stats, first half, second half, seems like maybe you made an adjustment.  Dexter Wright, maybe, did you tweak something that helped slow down Dylan?  
DAVE DOEREN: Tackled him.  Yeah, I mean, that first drive we were like a sieve.  We were just bouncing off the kid, you know.  Setting edges, they did have some new formations that we didn't show them, and we knew that would happen coming out of a bye.  So the guys lined up, we challenged them at halftime if they don't score, they don't win.  Unfortunately, we gave them field position and we were able to bounce back there.   
Defensively we really finished well in the fourth quarter.  Proud of the guys blocking that punt before the half too.  Getting that field goal.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT