ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 17, 2018
Dave Doeren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We are now joined by NC State head coach Dave Doeren.
Coach, please make an opening statement and then we'll open it up for questions.
DAVE DOEREN: Excited for the opportunity this week, play Clemson on their homecoming at their place.  Two really good teams, undefeated.  Great rivalry team between Atlantic Division foes.  Excited for that.
In the bye week, sure for them as well, has been very productive, not just from a scouting standpoint, but to get a little bit of a head start on a great opponent, also be able to heal up a few guys that were banged up, put us in a better position.
Excited for the opportunity down there and looking forward to it.
Q. Could you share a few specifics about why you've matched up so well against Clemson the past few seasons?  Some great games.  How much is your run D going to need to be special in this one?
DAVE DOEREN: Yeah, I mean, both games have come down to one possession, single plays in the game that swing it one way or the other.  Our kids have played hard.  Two years ago we forced a bunch of turnovers against them defensively, weren't able to capitalize, which really ended up losing the game.  I think we had five takeaways in that game and didn't get enough points out of them.
Last year is more of a shootout, a lot more points scored in that game.  I just think we've been able to execute, not enough to win, but to make it a game.  That's kind of where we're at now.
Obviously want to be able to put them away if we're in that position.  Try to make it a four-quarter game, make the key plays at the key moments.  You have two teams that are battling, I know that.  It means a lot to both programs.
Q. Your run D is going to have to be a real key in this game?
DAVE DOEREN: Absolutely.  I mean, everybody playing in this league, you have to stop the run.  What makes them challenging is their tailback is the fastest guy on the field.  When No. 9 is in the game, he is super explosive.  Each week you've got a different challenge in this conference.  When you play Clemson, it's always the explosive plays you're concerned about from a defensive standpoint.  He just adds a different dimension to their run game.
Q. I'm asking coaches this week with Nick Bosa withdrawing from Ohio State, preparing for the NFL, do you sense that's going to be a trend in college football, for guys that project that high, do you think it's going to be one or two guys that might do that going forward?
DAVE DOEREN: I couldn't tell you.  I mean, I'm not able to read the future, buddy.  I'm worried about this game and our team, not Nick Bosa.
Q. Have you ever had that discussion with players that have been injured, obviously have NFL futures, whether they would try to come back and play for you or shut it down and prepare for the NFL?
DAVE DOEREN: We dealt with it last year.  We had a couple seniors that didn't play in our bowl game.  Bradley didn't play, was healthy.  I feel like that was a good decision for him.  Tony Adams didn't play and wasn't healthy.  Didn't think it was worth the risk for him.  He wanted to play.  He just couldn't get back in time for it.
I've had those discussions with them.  The thing I loved about our guys is they were both on the sidelines cheering on their teammates, being a part of the preparation, helping those guys finish out their senior years.  To me that was special, still having that leadership from them.
Q. You mentioned how one play, one possession can make a difference.  Your kids that have been through these last two games, is that something you emphasized it or something they already know?
DAVE DOEREN: No, we've emphasized it.  I have said 'every rep matters' to these guys for the past two years.  I've probably said that as much as I've said anything.  You don't know what the play is that can cost you or win you a game.  You have to approach it that way.
People all talk about the last play of the game because that was the one they remember.  There was plenty of opportunities in both of those games where we could have won and didn't.  Dropped the pass, had a pass interference on a critical third down, had a field goal blocked before we missed the one that was a chip shot.
Every rep matters is a big deal in a big game.  I think you look across our game last year with them, the punt return they had for a touchdown is really what gave them the lead.  That wasn't the last play.  The guys just have to strain that way and understand the importance of every rep that they get.
Q. In light of all the personnel you lost on the defensive side of the ball, what have you been pleased most with in terms of your defense?
DAVE DOEREN: Really just the way that they go about their work.  I think you have a bunch of guys that play for each other, play hard.  They're getting better.  They know that they have things to work on and they work on them.  It's just week-to-week.  I think they've rose to the challenge depending on what the offense was we were facing.  Played a great receiver at Marshall, shut him out.  Played really, really well on the road up there against them.  That guy had 240 yards on us the year before.
To be able to play Virginia the way we did, I don't think that team gets enough respect.  I think that's a really good football team.  I think what they do offensively is really, really challenging.  Our guys took a quarterback out that was basically on the highlight reel of every ESPN SportsCenter for a week hurtling over people.  He had 20 yards against us.
Then Boston College, I thought we might have played as good of football as we've played since I've been here in that first half with their difficult offense, holding them to three points.  They've rose to the challenge.
Obviously this week presents another one and the most difficult one of all of them because of their personnel.
Q. You and Brent Venables are Kansas guys, coached in the Big 12.  He told us he gave you an endorsement at Kansas.  Describe how your relationship has evolved over the years, what makes him such a good coach?
DAVE DOEREN: Yeah, Brent is a great coach.  I've known him since I was a GA at Drake, when he was a GA at Kansas State.  I have great respect for him as a person, as a football coach.  We used to recruit the same area in Dallas, talk football, talk linebacker play.  Obviously compete against each other.
But he did, he helped me get an interview with Kansas when he was at Oklahoma with Coach Mangino.  Obviously I got the job because he got me the interview.  I definitely owe him for that.
But I think a lot of him.  What makes him a great defensive coordinator, I think he's a very detailed guy, I think he's a passionate guy, very knowledgeable guy that understands how to relate and connect to people, but also how to push them, get a lot out of them.
I know his players play hard for him and he competes his ass off in practice every day as a coach.  I know that about him.  I have great respect for him.  He deserves every dollar he gets down there, he does a great job for them.
THE MODERATOR: Coach, thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT