MASTERS TOURNAMENT
November 14, 2020
Lukas Michel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  LUKAS MICHEL: Overall, probably my play was a little bit disappointing. I would have liked to have hit the ball a bit better. My short game was pretty sharp, but, yeah, my iron play particularly today was poor, and yesterday it was my driving. So I felt like, if my game's on, I could definitely sort of peg it with these guys, but, yeah, it wasn't quite there this week. 
Overall, as an experience, it was really, really awesome. Obviously, very different to what a normal Masters would be with crowds and having my family here, friends and that to support me, but I still had a small little group of friends to kind of get me through the week. I mean, Will on the bag was great. He's a good friend of mine. And then Daniel, my coach, as well. It was still really, really good to share the experience with them.

Q. Did you stay in the Crow's Nest? 
LUKAS MICHEL: I stayed there on Sunday night. That was my first night here, and that was awesome as well. Yeah, it's a really cool place. History just sort of oozing from the walls. It's awesome. I slept under a photo of Ben Crenshaw, which is cool. You know that all the greats have stayed up there. So it's pretty cool. 

Q. Is this a unique experience playing with no fans? I know how you love the architecture. Did you kind of soak up the experience of being able to see the golf course in a different light? 
LUKAS MICHEL: Yeah, it was pretty cool yesterday playing really late into the day when the sun sort of comes a little lower and the contours start to pop a little more and the light through the trees, and it's beautiful. But, yeah, it was cool to see it under tournament conditions. I know probably not where the club might have liked it. They probably would have liked it a little firmer and faster, but it was still cool to see.

Q. What's next for you? 
LUKAS MICHEL: I'm not really sure. I've got to get home, which is the first battle. That's a little tricky because very few flights going down to Australia at the moment and a lot of demand for people trying to get home for Christmas. So there's flight restrictions getting home. I'm going to try to get home for Christmas if I can. If I can't, I'll be here till after then. 
Otherwise, tournament‑wise, I'll probably play some amateur stuff back home through the summer, but I'm not really sure. It's going to be tricky. If I feel like my game's good sort of this time next year, I might try some Q schools, but if not, I don't know, I'm still doing some golf course architecture work for a guy down in Australia, Mike Clayton. So it will probably be a little bit more of that stuff through till then, trying to keep my game sharp and keep playing things.

Q. What is the price for your return ticket? Something absurd. 
LUKAS MICHEL: Yes, it was like $11,000‑‑ I booked three economy tickets. I booked one, got cancelled. Booked another, got cancelled. Booked another, got cancelled. They keep cancelling them because they'll put out the fares, and if business class passengers book them, they'll just cancel the economy tickets. There's only a certain number of flights going into Australia because Australia has limited the number of arrivals. 
To basically get home, you've got to book a business class ticket to guarantee you'll get home, and that was like $11,000. But even in economy, it's like $6,000 one way. It's a bit ridiculous. I'm going to have to go into a bit of debt to get home.

Q. But it was worth it, right? 
LUKAS MICHEL: Yeah, exactly. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT