U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 18, 2019
Lukas Michel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So nervous time losing a big lead. How did you keep yourself in it mentally?  
LUKAS MICHEL: I knew I was still playing well. Like he was the one that kind of ate into my lead. Yeah, I think he was like 4-under through three holes on the back nine. I was 1-under those holes and I lost three of them.   
You know, you kind of just got to ignore that stuff and keep playing your own game. I think that's what I did.   
I did make a bit of a mistake on 18. Made a bogey there. But I felt like I hit a pretty good tee shot. Didn't really ride the wind like I expect. Felt like I was still playing pretty good golf.   
 Q.  On the 20th hole, what did you hit in there?  
LUKAS MICHEL: Yeah, so the wind was sort of picking up into our face, so I went back from -- had a 46-degree and went back to a 9-iron just because of the wind. Hit that a little bit softer and tried to take the wind out of it.   
The wind sort of dropped on me, so went 20 feet past and kind of came back to a reasonable distance. Yeah, two-putt from there.   
 Q.  What were you doing well to get the big lead?  
LUKAS MICHEL: I putted really well early. Continued putting really well. I putted pretty well late, too. Yeah, just holed some pretty good footage of putts early on in the round, and that got me off to a good start. He didn't play his best early, but definitely picked it up on the back nine.   
 Q.  Sure. And then he made an eagle.  
LUKAS MICHEL: Yeah, he eagled 15 and I put it in the front, right trap for two. I made a really good up and down actually for birdie, but he rolled the eagle putt in so he won that hole anyway.   
Yeah, he got it going on the back nine for sure.   
 Q.  Is there a tendency to get nervous when you see the lead shrinking?  
LUKAS MICHEL: Yeah. I mean, it's always in the back of your mind. But like I said, I knew I was playing well, so I just kind of had to I guess keep doing what I was doing and hopefully went my way. It did, so, yeah.   
 Q.  Obviously you're going to have a tough opponent in the semifinal. How do you gear it up real quick?  
LUKAS MICHEL: I didn't see the result. Is it Stewart?   
 Q.  Stewart.  
LUKAS MICHEL: I mean, I know he's a good player. I respect his golf. I've seen him playing play some good golf on TV and that, I'll have it cut out for me. Yeah, hoping I'll step up and play like I am. Yeah, hopefully be in it with a chance.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT