NHL AWARDS CEREMONY
June 23, 2010
Henrik Sedin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q. Is it a little surreal? 
 HENRIK SEDIN: It is for sure. I don't know what to say. Just to see the names that have won it and just to be there. But to see Alex, I was extremely happy with the season and everything and proud of what I've done. But to win the trophy, yeah, it's tough to put words on it for sure.

 Q. Can you just walk us through your mindset, thinking about it, not thinking about it, thinking about everything that it represents? Just the weight of the thing. 
 HENRIK SEDIN: Yeah, I think standing there, waiting for the announcement, it really means a lot. I mean, it's a great feeling and I haven't really thought too much about it. Like I said, I was happy to see the way things ended in the regular season with the final game and everything that we went on. So this is a great bonus. 

 Q. What was your acceptance speech? We didn't hear it here?
 HENRIK SEDIN: It was awful.

 Q. What were the highlights? 
 HENRIK SEDIN: They told us to rush it, so I didn't want to be another Duncan Keith (laughing).

 Q. Didn't want to hear the music playing?
 HENRIK SEDIN: No, exactly, and keep going, so, no.

 Q. Did you thank Danny? 
 HENRIK SEDIN: I did a little bit. 

 Q. What does it mean to be sitting up here with Ovechkin and Crosby? I know you've talked about it in the past, but this is kind of a little different context when it's actually here and it's real, and the TV lights are on and everything and there you are, you're the guy?
 HENRIK SEDIN: Yeah, like I said, they're the faces of the sport. They've been the last -- since we joined the league. Just to watch them play and the things they do. To be standing there next to them and being the old guy, it's a strange feeling. I don't know. I'm very proud. It was a great honor for sure.

 Q. You said yesterday that you didn't give yourself much of a chance to win the award. Is that the way you honestly felt? 
 HENRIK SEDIN: Yeah, like I said, those players are second to none. I mean, I thought the Hart was going to be really, really tough. I thought that was going to be out of the question. But maybe the other one, but I'm happy. I'll take this.

 Q. So when you didn't win the Lindsay, you thought your chances of winning this were even slimmer? 
 HENRIK SEDIN: I didn't think much. I was thinking it would be my other trophy. Like I said, everything else was a bonus. When they said my name, I didn't really think they said my name. But it was great.

 Q. You get to take this home for a few days? 
 HENRIK SEDIN: I have no clue. No clue. 

 Q. Are you proud of the way you built your career where not a lot of things were handed to you, and everything you've done you've really gotten through hard work and maybe setting an example and being a role model? 
 HENRIK SEDIN: Yeah, it does. I mean, it feels great because, like you said, it wasn't like we came in we were 19 and everything went extremely well from day one. We came in with maybe as big of expectations that Sid and Alex had, too. But it didn't work out. 
 We had some tough times, some struggles. We stayed strong. To work as hard as we did and to see the results, it makes it even more a greater feeling. I think so.

 Q. What do you do to celebrate? A crazy night in Vegas now? 
 HENRIK SEDIN: Me and T's -- no we're going to have a nice dinner with the family, and Mike and Ryan's going to be there too. So I don't know. It's just going to be thinking back over this whole -- these couple days have been nerve-racking, fun and exciting. So we'll see. 

 Q. Do you have a text from Danny? Do you talk to him on the phone? 
 HENRIK SEDIN: I haven't. No, I think he's sleeping right now.

 Q. Do you mind sharing the spotlight with Alex and two MVPs this season? 
 HENRIK SEDIN: I mean, it's great sharing the spotlight with him. It's two great players. They're both, I believe they're the best players in the game, and just to be with them, it's an honor. When they said my name winning the Hart Trophy was surreal for sure. 

 Q. What's it like to be the second Swede to win the hart? 
 HENRIK SEDIN: Yeah, it means a lot, especially with Petr winning it from the same small town. They've had a lot of players that were here throughout the years. To be on the trophy with him, it makes it more special.

 Q. When you look at the names on the trophy of the people that have won the trophy over the years, did you ever think? 
 HENRIK SEDIN: No. I mean, it's almost like I'm not really part of that group. I guess it's all those great players and it's me that wants to say, I'm sure Alex will be on there in the next couple of years, too. So I don't know what to say. It's almost like I'm not really fitting there.

 Q. Are you ready to get your mind blown here. Marcus got beaten out for the Hart by Forsberg, but won the Lindsay. You won the Hart. 
 HENRIK SEDIN: Yeah, it is. It is. Yep.

 Q. How do you think this hardware reflects on the Canucks organization? 
 HENRIK SEDIN: Oh, I think to have Ryan up for the Selke, I mean, we had a great team. There were a lot of pieces together for being a Cup contender. So that's the trophy we're missing. I think we're really postured to go forward. 

 Q. So you came up with blackjack in Vegas, that's pretty good. 
 HENRIK SEDIN: Yeah, it's good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT