NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 26, 1999
Daniel Sedin
Henrik Sedin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Yesterday you said it wasn't vital that you ended up on the same team. Now that you
have been drafted by the same team, how nice a feeling is this for you? 
 
 HENRIK SEDIN: Well, it's great, of course. We have played together for five or six
years now. Of course, we want to continue that. 
 
Q. I noticed Brian Burke announced both of your names together. He said Daniel and
Henrik. He didn't say Daniel second, Henrik third. What did you guys think of that? Was
that important for you?
 
 DANIEL SEDIN: No, not important. But it was fun.  
 
Q. Did you guys get any hint before the announcement that you were going to end up on
the same team? Did you know this morning?
 
 HENRIK SEDIN: No, not this morning. About five minutes before the draft we heard. 
 
Q. You were saying yesterday that you'd probably spent at least one more year in
Sweden. Now that you're on the same team, there will probably be some pressure for you to
play right away. Is that your plan still to stay in Sweden for another year? 
 
 DANIEL SEDIN: We haven't thought about that yet. We are just happy to be selected this
high.  
 
Q. But you will think about it?
 
 HENRIK SEDIN: Maybe (laughter).  
 
Q. Can you clarify your contract situation with MoDo for next year? You said you have a
one-year deal, but it is not signed. Can you talk a bit about that?
 
 HENRIK SEDIN: Well, we haven't signed yet. But we wanted to get this over first. So
we're going to talk with them now.  
 
Q. I just wanted to ask if the Canucks have talked to you a lot, if they're pressuring
you? Are they trying to entice you in any way to come over earlier than you intended stay
in Sweden? How much has anyone talked to you from the organization about that?
 
 DANIEL SEDIN: They haven't said to us that we have to come over in the next year. It's
our decision. 
 
Q. Do you think you would be less effective if separated on different teams as players?
 
 DANIEL SEDIN: Well, we play seven years in the same line, so of course I think we are
better together. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT