NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
June 7, 2011
Henrik Sedin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Henrik. 
 HENRIK SEDIN: He passes the puck, Rome steps up. It's not like it's a blindside. I think the guy didn't even know that he was there. I thought it was a good hit. 
 Like I said, we have to move on. This is the finals. We got no time. 

 Q. Is this a rallying cry for you guys? 
 HENRIK SEDIN: No, I don't think we need that. Like I said, we got to support Aaron. He's been a big part of this team, a great player for us. It's tough to see what he goes through right now. 
 At the same time you don't want to see a guy like Horton out like he is. That's not fun to see. I'm hoping he's going to be fit. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 HENRIK SEDIN: If you look at the game, you look at what happened, special teams is a big part of what happened. We've done a good job all year to bounce back. We're going to do that tomorrow. 

 Q. Was there anything specific on the power-play?
 HENRIK SEDIN: Mistakes, that's the only thing. We're not moving enough. We've have been unpredictable all year because the way we've been moving on the power-play. Right now we're moving the puck, but we're not moving players into their box. That's what we need to do. 

 Q. When you're not scoring on the power-play, does that allow them to be more physical?
 HENRIK SEDIN: Yeah, we give them momentum. We kill all the momentum we get from the power-plays. You're not going to score every power-play, but you need to get some for your team. 
 If you're on the bench and you're watching them score on the power-play, that's a killer. 

 Q. People are making you guys out to be the villains. How comfortable is this team if you're the bad guys according to the hockey world?
 HENRIK SEDIN: I don't know. I don't know. I mean, we don't really care. I feel for Aaron right now. As much as you don't want to see a guy go down like Horton, this is the way it is. I know the guys we have in the room. We're honest guys. We're hard-working guys. We're a tight group. 
 If people on the outside say what they want to say, that's fine. 
 Aaron has been a big part of this team. He's an honest player. Again, you don't want to see a guy like Horton go down. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT