NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
May 31, 2011
Henrik Sedin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Henrik. 

 Q. Talk a bit about the power-play, why it's so efficient right now. 
 HENRIK SEDIN: Well, I think it's been good all year. We don't have a setup where we know where everyone is going to be, and the other team doesn't know for sure where the guys are on ice. A lot of puck movement, players moving around. That's key to success. We're tough to read. 

 Q. Are you just refining what you're already doing? 
 HENRIK SEDIN: When you have a power-play like this, you don't really need any new looks. It's new looks every time we're on the ice. That's what makes it tough to defend. 

 Q. Manny not on the ice today. Any concerns? 
 HENRIK SEDIN: No, he's always been day to day. Nothing has changed so far. Like I said, we're happy to see him back. Hopefully he can get back in action here. 

 Q. Can you describe what this journey has been like for you. 
 HENRIK SEDIN: I think our 10 years here has been like the playoffs this year. It's been ups and downs, a lot of downs, a little bit of up. Now we're here. 
 It's a lot of fun right now. We're extremely excited to be here. Like I said, it's been like our 10 years here in Vancouver. 

 Q. (Question regarding downs earlier in career.) 
 HENRIK SEDIN: Yes, it prepared us a lot. After those first years, we have never really listened to what the media says. We don't care. We don't listen to them. We're very good at analyzing our own game. When we're not good enough, we know that. We don't need to read it in the papers or watch TV to see that. 
 That's what takes you through those times. 

 Q. Talk about facing Chara, what a challenge he's going to be. 
 HENRIK SEDIN: It's going to be tough for sure. He's a big guy. We haven't played against him that much. Couple games in the Olympics, then back in Sweden during the lockout a few games. Spent a lot of time in the Eastern Conference, so we haven't seen him a whole lot. 

 Q. What it's like to finally start playing after the long layoff?
 HENRIK SEDIN: It's been too long. Four, five days would have been good. To sit and wait for this this long, you can only practice that much. It's exciting to get going tomorrow. 

 Q. Do you have a sense what's going on in the city?
 HENRIK SEDIN: Yeah, you get a little bit of sense. I don't spend that much time outside right now. I don't know what's going on downtown or anything. 
 Just driving down to the rink, you see everyone with their flags and everything, it's going to be amazing. 

 Q. What is it like when a city reacts like this? What does that feel like? 
 HENRIK SEDIN: Well, I think it's great. I could have played in a U.S. market where no one cared. You come down to the rink, you're walking outside, no one talks hockey, no one cares how the team is doing. Some guys enjoy that. 
 Personally, I love it here. I think a lot of times, the times that are tough I think is maybe the most not fun times, but that's the times when you see the people care. That's when you have to show that you're strong and you've grown as persons. When you get through those, it's easier to enjoy the good times. 

 Q. How important was it for you to win the series against San Jose, but the way you won that series?
 HENRIK SEDIN: Again, I think we knew we could play better. I think also we weren't as bad as everyone thought. But I thought we stepped up in the San Jose series and played a lot better than we had in the previous two series. I think that was big for us. 
 We knew San Jose was a great team. You're not going to beat a team like that without your top players playing well. So that was fun. 

 Q. What is the biggest challenge of Chara?
 HENRIK SEDIN: His size. He's got great reach out there. Never really gets out of position because he can use his stick to get pucks. I mean, it's tough to go around one-on-one, it's tough to be in the corner. I think his size is to his advantage. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT