NCAA MEN'S COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
June 19, 2015
Keaton Jones
Preston Morrison
Jim Schlossnagle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Vanderbilt 7 - TCU 1   
THE MODERATOR: Representing TCU head coach Jim Schlossnagle, Preston Morrison, shortstop Keaton Jones.  Coach, an opening statement.   COACH SCHLOSSNAGLE: Sure, congratulations to Vanderbilt on making the championship series, outstanding team, really proud of our team.  As I always say, there are no bad days in Omaha.  Some are just better than others.  So this one is certainly the worst one but it's still not a bad day. Anytime you're finishing your season in the final four, Felt good about our club, felt it's a national championship team, caliber team, didn't go our way and ran into a heck of a pitcher today who smothered us especially in the early innings and we never really recovered from it.  Congratulations to Vandy, and I'm proud to be a TCU Horned Frog.   Q.  Coach and Preston and Keaton, do you find yourselves wondering, if you had played anybody else besides Vanderbilt this week?  COACH SCHLOSSNAGLE: Yeah, of course.  I mean, that's the way tournament baseball goes and they -- a lot of things have to go into winning a tournament.  That's what it is.  It's never about the best team.  It's the team that plays the best.  And I think Vanderbilt has a heck of a team and they're certainly playing as good as anybody in the country right now.  But we felt like we were good enough to play with them.  We just didn't play as well as they did today.   Q.  Keaton, I guess when a guy like Buehler is in that much of a zone, I guess what was he doing to keep you guys off balance and also are there any adjustments you guys tried to make to get out of his groove at all?  KEATON JONES: He was attacking with all his pitches and throwing them for strikes.  He was tough.  It wasn't he was throwing it down the middle hitting his spots in and out and throwing his breaking ball on the corners as well.  For us, I think we were just trying to attack his fastball.  But it was tough.  He was pitching well.   Q.  Keaton, just to follow up on Walker Buehler a little bit.  Did he look better or different the first time you guys faced him earlier in the season?  And Coach, can you answer that too?  KEATON JONES: From my memory, he was pitching well the first time we faced him as well.  I know we didn't score too many runs off him either.  So I mean he pitched -- he was lights out tonight, and he had everything working for him the first time as well.  So, I mean, he's a good pitcher and just gotta tip your hat to that guy.   COACH SCHLOSSNAGLE: I thought that early on he had a lot more on the baseball than he did, certainly it was a day game in Dodger Stadium.  He had just come off, what, a two inning little appearance in the mid-week game.  And he may have started that game but that was his first real start after coming off whatever little issue that he had. And we eventually scored the runs off Pfeifer in that game, but I thought he was good.  The velocity, if they're correct on the scoreboard, were really impressive.  But it was his command and just aggression and of course he did a heck of a job pitching with the lead. The key for us today like it was the other day with Alex we were going to have to pitch with him.  That was our only chance.  There aren't too many teams in the country that can pitch with us, and that's one of them.  And so we knew that going in.   Q.  Keaton, you have played very intense games and a lot of stress for a good month almost.  Does it catch up to you almost maybe tonight like when the score gets away from you a little bit?  KEATON JONES: Not really.  I mean, I don't know, we just didn't play our brand of baseball.  He pitched a really good game.  And we didn't find ways to score.  They found a way to score a lot off Tyler early in the game.   Q.  Coach, I know the game just finished but you look back at guys like Preston and the senior class, you don't see many programs this many seniors.  I guess kind of reflect on what those guys did the last few years for this program?  COACH SCHLOSSNAGLE: Think about the guys that have been here for fours years, Trey Teakell's case, five, they've been a part of two college World Series teams, three Super Regional teams.  I mean, Teakell was a part of, what was his first year?  What was your first year, 2012?  So he was part of four regional teams, 2011. So, yes, and some of the very -- I mean, this guy's a first ballot TCU Hall of Famer.  I think Keaton Jones should be and Riley Ferrell should be, some of the greatest players in the history of our school on this team.  Again, it's hard to reflect right now, but it's a really special group, and a group that has really helped us establish us as a legitimate program, an Omaha program, one you're not going to be here every year but you're going to be fighting for that opportunity every year.  That wasn't the case just five years ago.  So we're very appreciative to those guys.   Q.  Preston, to piggyback on that question, when you look at this ride and this group of players that you've been with for four years, how do you kind of describe the relationship that you guys have with each other and how this run has felt for you guys?  PRESTON MORRISON: It's been amazing, four, five years ago I was some unrecruited guy from a small town in North Carolina.  And then just to be a part of this program, a part of this school, is just about anything a guy could ask for.  And then just the relationships I have with all my teammates, especially these seniors.  It's a true blessing, and I've never taken it for granted.  It's been the best decision of my life to come here.  I'm just so happy that it all happened.   Q.  Coach, what did you tell your players after the loss and what's your message to them after this game?  COACH SCHLOSSNAGLE: I mean, I have a lot of things I want to say to them but it has to be in the right context.  Nobody, ten minutes after your season ends, some of these guys college career, maybe their baseball career ends, nobody wants to hear the obituary of the season.  But I'll have a lot of things to say to them.  Just told them that I'm proud of them and there's no bad days in Omaha.  Today's still a heck of a lot better day than Micah had today.  And as we've done all season we're going to keep this in perspective for what it is. And it's an honor to put on the same jersey as these guys.  But I have a lot to say to them when we get home.   Q.  Jim, last year when y'all left, there was a lot of peripheral talk about the ballpark, the bat, the wind, everything.  This year, it's safe to say that it was all about the baseball, isn't it?  COACH SCHLOSSNAGLE: Yeah, that's a really great point to make.  I think at the end of the day this park is still going to, the wind is still going to play a factor.  But there are plenty of parks in the country where that's what makes baseball great, is it's not a basketball gym where everything is the same.  It's unique. So I think the ball seems to have definitely helped.  I still think we can take one more step and play with the minor baseball, but it's a huge step in the right direction.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT