ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 3, 2011
Deena Kastor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What might be changing this year that you can approach the 2:17, if not the 2:15. Do you think Paula was just an out-liar or what are the records that have kept the record from being broken?   
 DEENA KASTOR: Paula was definitely ahead of her time in her training and her racing. And anybody that looks at the way she runs and that she could go out at a grueling pace and just keep it, it brought the realization, I think, to the men as well that you don't have to be so timid going into a marathon. She just put the bar out there, and I think women have been chasing it since because she really shattered barriers and was an inspiration to a lot of women and men. Now we're seeing it on the men's side, but they're just relentlessly going after these marathons every time they get on the starting line it's insane. I really attribute that inspiration to her.  
  
  Q. Specifically how did her training differ from what came before?   
 DEENA KASTOR: I think people that go into the marathon are so concerned about riding that line between overdoing it and getting as fit as possible without overdoing it. And that was never Paula's concern. She was out there, and grinds on a daily and weekly basis, and really got the best out of herself. It's very admirable, and as you can see, sometime it's leads to injuries with her. But the end result is the fact that she's got this untouchable world record, and a well deserved one. She worked hard for it, and raced hard for it and definitely deserves it.  
  
  Q. So we've seen three sub-2:20s this year. So is something changing or the trend changing now that we may see somebody coming at least at the 2:17 record or if not the 2:15?   
 DEENA KASTOR: Yeah, I think 2:15 will be in the record books for a while because it's such a standout performance. But the fact that we're seeing so many sub-2:20 marathons now used to be a novelty where it's not anymore. And the fact that women and men are starting their marathon careers at a much earlier age. It used to be something that you did at the end of your career to give it a last shot. Now you're seeing people gravitate to it in their prime. So it's definitely -- you're definitely going to see performances -- some great performances in the future because of that. And when you're younger, you take more risks, so I think it's fun for people to go out there and just see what they can do. I think it's fabulous that our sport has come to that.  
  
  Q. I was talking to Mary Keitany's coach, and he says that what he sees in Africa is you can actually now as a woman be a pro athlete first, and not a mother who runs. That's changing. But he also said that the next generation of Kenyans may not be as strong as the current generation because they're kind of weaker because they're getting electricity and running water, kind of like what the Americans say about video games.   
 DEENA KASTOR: I don't think electricity and running water is going to slow them down.  
  
  Q. But it's funny because it's sort of typical kids. He says, "I don't think it will be a straight progression."  
 DEENA KASTOR: If you look at the World Championships, the Kenyans were extraordinary across the board in the distance events. So that shows the contrary. But really I think their traditions and their rivalry with Ethiopia are so great. I think that's stronger than electricity and running water as a negative.  
  
  Q. He doesn't mean this current group. He thinks below that.  
 DEENA KASTOR: But I think the tradition is so strong that that's such a powerful force, and a huge motivator for the African countries.  
  
  Q. A loaded question. Is running an addiction?   
 DEENA KASTOR: I think it can be an addiction, it can be an addiction, and it can also be a lifestyle. For so many people, to take to the streets on great weekends like this in New York City, for the most part it's a lifestyle for a lot of people. They've taken on running for one reason or another, and realized how the positive effects infiltrate their life, and they want to keep it a part of their life.  
  
  Q. I guess there is such a thing as a positive addiction. Are you in that category, do you think?   
 DEENA KASTOR: I would call it a habit, maybe instead of an addiction. Like I tell people I never get nervous, but I get this weird feeling in my stomach at every starting line, and you can call it butterflies or whatever, but I call it excitement. I want it to have a more positive than negative connotation. Maybe addiction sounds too negative to me. But definitely there is so much a part of it that you feel better in your body. Your body looks better. You're releasing great hormones, and because of that, it's affecting really every nook and cranny of your life from being a mom to being a business woman. I mean, it goes so deep. It's not just an hour a day that you're out there putting one foot in front of the other, so in that sense, it's a very special sport.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT