VIVENDI CUP 2010
September 25, 2010
John Parry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How did you find it out there, were you happy? 
 JOHN PARRY: Yeah, I was happy, struggled a bit halfway around, got a little bit lucky, got a birdie on the par 5. It seemed a bit tougher with the wind a bit stronger, played a little bit longer I think. 

 Q. What about those pins out there today? 
 JOHN PARRY: I think obviously with the Pro-Am, they sort of were quite friendly and then today they made it pretty tricky on some of the holes.

 Q. You're fresh off The Challenge Tour and I believe you have won in France before on The Challenge Tour, tell us about that?
 JOHN PARRY: Yeah, I was a few back going into the last day, 9-under and the wind was slightly different, but I'm going to take the same mind-set coming into it.

 Q. A fantastic week last week in Austria, does that hold you in good stead? Did that hold you in good stead going out there today?
 JOHN PARRY: I think so. Whatever shot I saw today, I tried to play it, I didn't second guess, I just went for it. I think that sort of -- and getting used to the pressure, as well, in that position, I think the more and more you do it, the more you get used to it, so that helps.

 Q. You say going for your shots, I was watching you all day today, the one shot that stood out to me that said you were not nervous was the tee shot on 17?
 JOHN PARRY: Yeah, I took my rescue club out, was trying to hit a fade in there, I just saw the shot and just went for it.

 Q. What's the plan tomorrow? Do you think you'll sleep well tonight?
 JOHN PARRY: Well, it's a late start again, I think I'll be fine. 

 Q. You said yesterday you probably wouldn't know what you've learnt until you actually got out there?
 JOHN PARRY: Yeah, I think I've just felt getting used to the pressure of the situation that comes. I think obviously Challenge Tour -- I just went with the mind-set, whatever happened, just try and play the shot you see. If it goes wrong, it goes wrong, at least you tried to play the right shot, instead of just sort of flapping it up there and hoping for the best. 

 Q. Did you feel comfortable out there? 
 JOHN PARRY: In bits, I felt nervous, I think everyone does, but I felt a lot more relaxed. I think the turning point was when I hit it in the bushes on the par 5 and had a shot and made birdie. I was looking at 6 and made birdie and then I got some momentum and that helped. Just keeps going. 
 Even then, I think I was only one behind at that point, so I thought at worse, make a 6 with two behind and still be in the mix, and there's still a few holes to go. So I stayed pretty calm and relaxed and just kept trying to play the shots.

 Q. Do you go out tomorrow thinking about trying to keep your card or go for the win? 
 JOHN PARRY: Well, obviously I'm going to try and win, but I'm just going to try to play the right shots, if it's go enough to win. If I hit the shots, it will be good enough to win. That's all I can do really is concentrate on my own game.

 Q. Did you say the pin positions were a lot harder today?
 JOHN PARRY: Yeah, I think the wind made it harder. It was a different direction so the course played a bit longer and then obviously from the Pro-Am, a bit friendly with the amateurs playing, and they tucked a few away today. 
 We knew going in, because the course, there's not much rough. You're unlucky to get a bad lie in the rough. It's not overly long. There's a few tough holes, so you know they are going to have to put the pins in tricky positions to stop you from shooting -- you saw the first two days, people shooting 7-, 8-, 11-under. 

 Q. You birdied the last, didn't you? 
 JOHN PARRY: Parred the last. I birdied 13, 14 and parred the last. Bogeyed 17 and 18. Pulled it left on 17, chipped up to about ten foot and missed it. 

 Q. In the bunker on 18? 
 JOHN PARRY: Hit in the fairway with an iron and pulled it left into the trap. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT