MOTEL 6 CACTUS BOWL: BAYLOR VS BOISE STATE
December 26, 2016
Kyle Fuller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Some of the coaches that might not be here and for you and the rest of your senior class, do you feel it's more an opportunity to close a chapter and end on a high note?  
KYLE FULLER: Yeah, you could say it like that, but it's also another opportunity for us to go out here and get a win.  So that's really just what we're focused on.   
 Q.  I guess what do you see from Boise State defensively, what are some things they do well and some things you guys might need to pay attention to tomorrow?  
KYLE FULLER: They play tough, physical defense.  They're very effective on defense.  They have a very good front four, and that's really just going to come down to us executing on the offensive line tomorrow.   
 Q.  Have you ever played a football game on a baseball field before?  
KYLE FULLER: Never played on a baseball field.  It will be interesting to see how that is.   
 Q.  Obviously senior, final game, but to know last year's game, how it went.  It was a great game for us.  Sent the seniors out.  To have that feeling, what was last year's feeling like for the seniors?  How much did you enjoy that?  
KYLE FULLER: It was an accomplishment, definitely an accomplishment.  One of those deals where we went into it ready to play and that's how we're going to treat this one.  We're ready to play.  We've been practicing very hard.  And it's been a long, long trip getting ready for this game.   
 Q.  How much would it mean to you to win your final game as a Baylor Bear?  
KYLE FULLER: It would mean a lot, just going through my really five years here at Baylor.  We've been through a lot, and it would always be a blessing to come out with a win.   
 Q.  How about the coaching staff, win for them, win one for Coach Grobe, everything that's went on this year, but that would, I'm sure -- Aiavion said that it means a lot for the players to do that for the staff.  
KYLE FULLER: Definitely, Coach Grobe came out here and helped us out tremendously.  He's a great guy.  And it would mean a whole lot for us give him this W.   
 Q.  How about Boise State, what do you see from that defense and just overall as a team, what do you see from Boise State?  
KYLE FULLER: They're a very good team.  They play very physical defense.  They're very good on offense.  It's just one of those deals where it's just going to come down to who executes better.   
 Q.  What's it like playing in these bowl games?  You've got accustomed to playing every year in a bowl game.  Not every team plays in these.  But Baylor, you see that name now, wherever the bowl is, you shine a little bit more light there.  What's it like playing in a bowl game?  
KYLE FULLER: It's extremely exciting.  It's just one extra game you get to get to, to play against somebody that you probably never played before.  It's really exciting.   
 Q.  For Zach Smith, you've worked with a lot of quarterbacks in your time at Baylor.  Zach makes a third, fourth, fifth start right in there, what have you seen from him over the last couple of games and what do you think you're going to see from him tomorrow?  
KYLE FULLER: Now that he's gotten that first start out of the way, it's definitely exciting to watch him grow.  He's definitely become more mature as a quarterback.  And it's really more of our job, our responsibility to keep him calm and to make sure that he does make good decisions.   
 Q.  What do you think this game will be like for him, he's still 18 years old, playing in his first bowl game, that's a pretty big deal for him?  
KYLE FULLER: It's a neat experience.  Kind of a springboard for him going into next season.  He didn't get to play the entire season this year.  But this is just an extra game for him to prepare.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT