BAYLOR UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 2, 2016
Kyle Fuller
Seth Russell
KJ Smith
Taylor Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Baylor - 55, Northwestern State - 7
SETH RUSSELL: It's smart to take out your top guys, you don't want to take that risk of having them hurt or injured.
Q. It looked like an Art Briles coached team, what did it feel like?
SETH RUSSELL: It felt like Baylor.  That's just the way it was.  We were going to play better football.  We have all the same coaches, except minus one.  But we had a great one to replace him.  I'm really excited about it and we're going to continue to play Baylor football.
Q. Did you recognize the initials on his hand?  Did you know what that was about?
SETH RUSSELL: Yeah, I did.  I'm all for it.  He's who brought me here, he's the reason -- he gave me the opportunity, I love him for it.  Coach Grobe did a fantastic job of stepping in into a rescue situation.  He's done a great job of handling it.  He's been staying positive the entire time and I'm really happy about it.
Q. In your mind what was the significance of the seniors coming out to lead the Baylor line?
SETH RUSSELL: I think it's just unity.  Unity with Baylor nation, with the students who know that we're in this all together.  It's not just us against the world, it's all Baylor against the world.  And I felt like it was good to show that they're included in this too, it's not just us.  They're in the fight with us and they have done a great job with support, Staying through the whole game and I'm really excited for the rest of the season.
Q. Do you normally not all run out like that?
SETH RUSSELL: No, Judge Starr actually ran out with them prior, but things change.
Q. (No microphone.)
SETH RUSSELL: We love him.  I love him.  He's been everything everybody said he was.  He hasn't changed.  He's the guy is what you see is what you get.  He's been positive.
Q. So y'all didn't really allow any positive yardage until the second half of the game.  What was that like for y'all?
TAYLOR YOUNG: It was a big deal to come out there and have that type of mindset out there, that mentality.  Just to say that, like they don't need to get a yard.  Like that was our mentality going in there.  So just doing that, like it's really an accomplishment for us.
Q. What was that like for you getting back onto the field and playing a game that wasn't against your own teammates?
TAYLOR YOUNG: Everybody was in a good mood because we were really getting tired of hitting each other.  So just finally getting to take our anger out on someone else, it's just a big deal for us and like we just wanted to give McLane and everybody who came just a good show.
Q. Now to you, being a part of the athletic program, now it's a huge deal here at Baylor, to you what does it mean to be a Baylor Bear?
TAYLOR YOUNG: It just means to just stay loyal.  Just be loyal, just be loyal to the cause, the team and the school and just with now with everything going on, just make sure that every where you go you show respect and just be respectful and just everything else like that.
Q. That looked like an Art Briles coached team.  What did it feel like?
KYLE FULLER: We're the same.  We're back to how we are.  And that's the big thing right now.  Going through camp and going through what we have gone through the past couple months has really brought us closer together.  So it's been fun, it was really exciting to get out there.
Q. Why are you the same?  How can you guys be the same after everything that's gone on?
KYLE FULLER: That's how we're trained, we're trained to handle adversity as a team and press on.  And that's what we're going to continue to do.
Q. In your mind, is it hard for some people to understand the group here right now are part of the innocents, I mean you're going to have things said about you and the school, but the players themselves are, they got nothing bad to say about you guys.
KYLE FULLER: Yes, sir, we're not worried about that.  We're worried about going out there and controlling what we can control and playing football the way we know how to play it.
KJ SMITH: It was big, it got taken back.  But we got to get that cleaned up.  But that's really a big part of what he's brought to the table.
Q. A bunch of young guys out there playing, you being an older guy, what have you tried to do as far as mentoring them along?
KJ SMITH: Just alignment and assignment knowing how to get lined up and just the small things is what matters.  They all got the athletic ability to do it, it's just a mindset.  It's knowing how to do it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT