U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2013
Doug Hanzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   [ No microphone ].   What kept you going?   You had to finish 72 holes to get that medal.   
DOUG HANZEL:   Correct.   The key to the weekend was to make sure nothing unusual happened.   I needed to post a 72‑hole score.   It was a lot less pressure this weekend, the first few days.   It was very nice.  
   
 Q.   Talk about being low amateur two years in a row.   That's an incredible honor, and, obviously, all the exceptions you get with being low amateur too.   
DOUG HANZEL:   Oh, it's‑‑ I'm just amazed.   I wasn't playing really good coming into the tournament, but I found a little something in practice that worked, and I really played pretty good.   Golf course is really tough, and I'm just thrilled again.  
   
 Q.   How is your diabetes?   I know your son said today at one time it got a little low and you had to drink some Gatorade.   
DOUG HANZEL:   It's been okay.   This is just a very tough golf course.   It's tough physically to walk, the heat.   So I was watching it pretty closely.   I got a little low out there but took care of it pretty quick.   So what can I say?  
I've had a great week again.  
   
 Q.   You got a couple more events coming your way now.   The Amateur Mid‑Am, obviously, the Senior Am?  
DOUG HANZEL:   Looks like the schedule's been changed a little bit.   Last summer, I never played that much golf.   I'm looking forward to it again because USGA hosts the best events.  
   
 Q.   Ever been to the Country Club?   
DOUG HANZEL:   No, never have, but all the history there, I'm looking forward to it.  
   
 Q.   What kind of reactions have there been back home to your performances?   
DOUG HANZEL:   I got a lot of texts the last couple days, a lot of encouragement.   So it's phenomenal.   I have tremendous support back home.  
   
 Q.   What's your occupation again?   
A.Pulmonary critical care and, primarily, sleep medicine now.   I've stepped away from the hospital after 20‑plus years of intensive care work, which involves a lot of nights, a lot of weekends.   So I stepped away from that.   
So I'm pretty much an office physician now, but I still work five days a week.   That's why I would love to stay for the ceremony tonight, but I got to get home because I got a full office tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   How much golf do you play?   
DOUG HANZEL:   Probably two, three times a week.   Maybe in the last few weeks, getting out at night to chip and putt a little bit.  
Unfortunately, this time of year, our courses are, you know, aerated and whatnot because of what they need to do.   So the short game has been tough.   Our greens are 7, 8, 9 at best, and coming up here and running 12, 13 is much different.  
   
 Q.   Practice?   
DOUG HANZEL:   Practice golf or practice medicine?   I'd like to practice more golf, but I got a full‑time job.  
   
 Q.   Tell me what clubs are in your bag.   
A.I play TaylorMades.   This week, I played a Titleist driver because I'm still struggling with my Taylor driver to find the right fit.  
   
 Q.   Which one?   
DOUG HANZEL:   The 913D2.  
   
 Q.   What loft?   
DOUG HANZEL:   9.5.   I play a Titleist 3 wood, 910, 12.5 loft.   Then a Nickent Rescue, old one.  
   
 Q.   What's the loft?   
DOUG HANZEL:   17.   And then I play a PING 4, 5 iron, old High Launch, and then I play TaylorMade RocketBladez Tours,   the rest of the set with ATV wedges with Aerotech shafts.  
   
 Q.   All the irons have the Aerotech?   
DOUG HANZEL:   Correct.  
   
 Q.   Which weight?  
DOUG HANZEL:   95, i95.  
   
 Q.   Like Kuchar andSnedeker?   
DOUG HANZEL:   If it's good enough for them, I figure it's good for me.   I've had joint problems, a little shoulder issue and some elbow issues.   So I think it's a little softer hit and a little less vibration.  
   
 Q.   What's the loft to it?   
DOUG HANZEL:   50, 54 and 58.  
   
 Q.   What's your putter?  
DOUG HANZEL:   I was putting with an Odyssey Tank, counter‑balanced.  
   
 Q.   What length?   
DOUG HANZEL:   It's 37, but it needs to be shorter, but, you know.  
   
 Q.   That's a good putter.   
DOUG HANZEL:   It's pretty good.   I think, from what I can see, counter‑balancing is kind of going to be the new thing.  
   
 Q.   So TaylorMade‑‑ you got about eight different manufacturers in there.  
GLEN NAGER:   I'm Glen Nager, President of the USGA.   Sorry you can't be with us for the award ceremony this afternoon.   Ever flexible, we're going to do one right now.   
Thank you for your participation in USGA events.   The USGA is supportive of amateur golf.   The USGA recognizes you as a Low Amateur of the 2013 Senior Open and the winner of the Low Amateur award.   
DOUG HANZEL:   Thank you.  
GLEN NAGER:   Well done.   
DOUG HANZEL:   Wish nothing more than I could stay.   I checked plane flights this morning, and there's nothing that I can get back tonight.   
GLEN NAGER:   We totally get it.   This is part of supporting amateur golf.   You played the game.   You earned the medal.   I congratulate you.   
DOUG HANZEL:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT