U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 15, 2012
Doug Hanzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, Doug Hanzel shot a 75 today, 9 over par for the Championship, and has earned Low Amateur honors.

Q.   Well played.   Congratulations on the Low Amateur honors. 
DOUG HANZEL:   Thank you.

Q.   You had a stretch there on the back nine where you were kind of going the other way. 
DOUG HANZEL:   Well, it's one of those golf courses where you're off five yards and you're in trouble, and I was off five yards off the tee.   I didn't hit bad shots.   They were just five yards off.   And from there, you're usually looking at bogey.   And if you don't be careful, you get double. 
And I made some easy bogeys, and I made a double that really didn't take a lot of effort.

Q.   But a birdie on 17.   What did you hit there? 
DOUG HANZEL:   I hit a 5 iron.   We were debating 4 and 5 iron.   I saw Loren's ball come up a little short.   I just said I think I can get 5 iron back there.   I just hit it right on the button.   I had perfect line.   To get it back to that pin, you couldn't hit it to the pin because it would go over.   So hit a little short, rolled up into the bowl, and came back.   Loren was putting right behind me.   I saw the line, and I had a good read.   It's one of the few putts I actually got to the hole today.

Q.   You're a practicing physician.   How much time did you actually have to get ready?   What did you do for the Senior Open? 
DOUG HANZEL:   Well, to be honest, not a lot.   Yeah, I did practice a little bit more, but our golf courses are so different than these.   We have Bermuda greens.   They're slow this time of year.   So it's hard to practice your short game.
But I did come up, see my family in Ohio last Friday, and I was staying up with my daughter in Kent, Ohio, and my old golf coach, I talked to Herb Paige at Kent State.   He said you can come out to the practice facility and practice.   I played his golf course, bentgrass, pretty quick.   I got a little tune‑up on bentgrass and played three practice rounds.
It was interesting because the first two days, the course played kind of soft and not fast.   Wednesday, it got really fast.   Thursday and Friday got hard and fast.

Q.   Anyone tell you what comes with the Low Amateur? 
DOUG HANZEL:   Well, I played last year, and I missed the cut by two.   And I know Low Amateur gets an invitation back.   And the thing I didn't know that I found out is Low Amateur‑‑ or senior making the amateur‑‑ amateur making the cut posting four rounds gets me into the Senior Amateur, which is good because I was just about ready to send in my application for qualifying.   This is a big relief.

Q.   Projecting to next year, you're a cardiac care physician.   How do you free your schedule up to be able to play in the Senior Open next year? 
DOUG HANZEL:   I'm actually a pulmonologist, lung specialist, and do critical care medicine.   I've kind of stepped away from critical care medicine because of time, nights and weekends.   I'm pretty much an office practice now.   I have a great group of guys that help cover for me.   My schedule is a little freer.
I did critical care for 21, 22 years.   It's a young person's profession.   I'm to the point where I need to slow down.   My kids are kind of out of the house, and I can slow down a little bit.

Q.   Congratulations.   It's great stuff. 
DOUG HANZEL:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT