BELGIAN KNOCKOUT
May 17, 2018
Ryan Evans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts on a 4-under 67?  
RYAN EVANS: Yeah, I played really nice.  It was quite difficult, actually, the wind swirling quite a lot this afternoon.  The greens have grown a little bit, so they are a little bit bobbly.  I just managed my game well and played pretty tidy.   
 Q.  How tough is this golf course?  
RYAN EVANS: You look at the scorecard, you think you can rip it up, but it's really tight in places.  Our group today, there was part of aggressive play and part sort of safety play.  I was kind of in between.  Took it on aggressively when I felt there was a bit more room, and it's just, it isn't easy and you have to manage your game well and I feel that's what I've done today.   
 Q.  Do you feel it's a continuation of your good play?  
RYAN EVANS: Yeah, I played lovely in Sicily.  A little bit disappointed on the weekend in calm conditions.  I didn't take advantage of that.  My game feels good and I'm hitting it nicely and holing a couple of putts.  Just got to keep rolling with it.   
 Q.  Do you feel it's taken a bit of time to adjust to your first season on The European Tour?  
RYAN EVANS: Yeah, I think first season, I built it up a bit, you know, obviously getting the card at Q-School, I was kind of like, right, I need to make big changes, I need to make big swing changes and become a really good golfer.  I think if you do what you do well, it doesn't have to be glamorous.  Get it around the best score you can.  There's hundreds of different golf swings.  No one swings it perfect.   
I think coming into it off The Challenge Tour, after playing, you know, well on there, I've just gone, right, I don't need to change here.  I just need to get better at what I know I can do already.  Just sharpen up a few things.  I've come into this year with that sort of mentality of let's just play some golf and see what happens.   
 Q.  Do you feel more comfortable having a second bite of the cherry, as it were?  
RYAN EVANS: Yeah, first time I was excited and a bit nervous.  Don't get me wrong, I was nervous to come back out here and start again but you see a few familiar faces and you get some good friendships, you've got a lot of people around you telling you that you're doing some good stuff.   
So it's about, for me, it was just a case of forget all the big names.  Just go out and play your game every week and hopefully come the end of the year, one week, it's good enough to really contend for a tournament.   
 Q.  You're in a good position to qualify for the top 64.  How much are you looking forward to it that if that happens?  
RYAN EVANS: Again, tomorrow, just go out there and play my game.  I need to put in another good score tomorrow.  Again, the course is tricky, so I've got to manage my game well.  Yeah, it would be great to get into the match play and match play is -- well, it's stroke play, but it's one of those games, again, people will be aggressive in the stroke / match-play and some people will play it sensible.  It will be interesting.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT