ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 2, 2014
Ryan Evans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your first experience at professional golf, that's pretty good, isn't it?   
    RYAN EVANS:   Yeah, it is.   It was just a nice day, nice company.   My game felt good coming into the week, and I got a look at Kingsbarns on Monday for the first time and really enjoyed it, so come back out here today with good expectations and played very nice.  
   
 Q.   Any nerves on the first tee?   
    RYAN EVANS:   Just a few.   Managed to hit one down the middle which is a good start but wasn't as bad as yesterday.   Managed to grab a practice round with Nick Faldo yesterday at the Old Course, was pretty nervous.   Wasn't as bad as that but it was pretty nerve‑wracking.  
   
 Q.   How much help was that?  
    RYAN EVANS:   It was good.   Like I say, I played in his Faldo Series when I was a bit younger, so I sort of got in early doors and asked how he was going with that and broke the ice and he was great for the whole round.   
   
 Q.   Are you a fan of links golf?  
    RYAN EVANS:   As an amateur, we play it every week, so it's something I'm used to.   The back nine was playing tough when the wind got, up but I struck the ball good, so I'm pretty pleased with that.  
   
 Q.   Getting off to a quick start, three birdies in five holes, must have settled your nerves?  
    RYAN EVANS:   Yeah, I got off to a couple steady pars and managed to roll three nice putts in and that pulled the nerves away and I was able to play golf from there.   
   
 Q.   Does the format help?   
    RYAN EVANS:   Yeah, Douglas was with me, patting me on the back after every shot.   It's serious competition but he made me really relaxed.   It was great.  
   
 Q.   Is it strange seeing your name up there with Casey, Harrington, people like that?   
    RYAN EVANS:   I did have a quick glance when I was on the 17th, which I probably shouldn't have.   But that was good to see that.   Obviously if I can keep playing like this, it means I hopefully belong here in the game.  
   
 Q.   You must be relishing the weekend ahead.   
    RYAN EVANS:   Yeah, I'm just thankful for the opportunity that Johan Rupert gave me to give me an invite to this, and I've got to grab it with both hands and go and play my best golf.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT