ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
May 2, 2016
Byeong-Hun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just a great finish for you to birdie the 54th hole and then just got a little wayward with your second shot into 18 in the playoff.  
BYEONG-HUN AN: Yeah, honestly it was a good birdie to at least have a chance to go to a playoff.  I couldn't play any better today to be honest.  The playoff was a bit sloppy, but I didn't have a great lie out of the rough on the second shot.  Same with the third shot.  It's not an easy lie there for that flag, and hit a poor chip, so everything didn't work.  Before that, everything was great, I think.   
 Q.  I think in time you'll be able to look upon this as a great learning experience and realize that this was helpful in your first win, which I'm sure is soon to come.  
BYEONG-HUN AN: Yeah, played great all week.  Didn't miss many shots to be honest and made some good up-and-downs.  It definitely gave me a lot of confidence, and I've still got a couple more events this year and hopefully keep the momentum going.   
 Q.  What's the takeaway from this week?  
BYEONG-HUN AN: Obviously a lot of things.  Half of second is not bad, is it.  It would have been better if I won and made this year a lot easier, what I'm going to play and stuff, but a lot of things, I think.  I played great, and my game is there.  Hopefully I'll play well the next couple of weeks.   
 Q.  How is this going to change how often we'll see you on the PGA TOUR for the rest of the year?  
BYEONG-HUN AN: I will try to play as many as I can, definitely.  My goal is to try to get a PGA TOUR card this year, so I came pretty close.  Hopefully you'll see a lot of me this year.   
 Q.  The mental fortitude it took to get through this weekend with all the delays and then into today, just talk about how you were able to manage the mental side of it.  
BYEONG-HUN AN: To be honest, I seemed to get lucky with the weather.  It was supposed to rain today, as well, but we got lucky.  To be honest, I only played nine holes the last three days, so kind of saved my energy for the most week.  Played 18 on Thursday, and then nine, nine and nine, or six yesterday.  It is a bit tiring, I think, because you've got to stay on the course for more than 12 hours, and it was a bit tiring, but it happens.  Rain obviously happens, and you've just got to take it and try to play the best you can.   
 Q.  And being in New Orleans, just talk about the experience here and this tournament.  
BYEONG-HUN AN: It's my first time in New Orleans, and obviously a great city, great food.  I gained a couple pounds.  After my second place, I think I'm probably going to take a lot of good experience from New Orleans.  It was great.   
 Q.  Take me through the playoff hole.  
BYEONG-HUN AN: Playoff hole, I hit a great drive in the rough, slightly -- too much grass behind the ball, so I tried to hit down on it, and that led to a bit of a pull.  The third shot I didn't have a great lie, and I thought I was just going to go a little bit right below my feet, and it went left, and it wasn't an easy chip with a muddy lie.  I duffed it, and I didn't deserve to go to the next hole.  I'm sure I'll have plenty of chances this year, as long as I play like this, and hopefully next time we'll get it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT