BMW MASTERS
November 14, 2015
Byeong-Hun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your thoughts on shooting another good round?  
BYEONG HUN AN: I wasn't counting today actually.  I made a lot of birdie putts and hit it quite well, and off to a good start with a birdie.  Overall, it was great.   
 Q.  Wasn't counting; does that mean just let it happen and see what happens?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, because I didn't think it was that easy out there with the wind.  Kind of died down the last couple holes but still, focus on every shot and was playing where I want to, and seems like it worked.   
 Q.  And yet, there are a lot of low scores.  It's strange, isn't it, with the sun on your back, it seems that little easier.  
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, well, some low scores, but it's not like one of the days where everyone shoots 6-under, 7-under, 5-under today.  There's some quite tough holes out there and I managed to do well today, and bogey-free is always nice.   
 Q.  Does the feeling change when you enter a third day and you're right in the mix like that and you have star names up against you?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Not really.  I'm still behind and it's like I'm the one who is chasing.  So I don't feel any different.   
 Q.  I don't think I've asked you about Rookie of the Year.  Is that something that you're conscious of?  
BYEONG HUN AN: I think it's a bonus to be honest, and my goal is trying to get Top-50 in the world.  That would be great to have it, because once in a your lifetime, so it would be great to have that.   
 Q.  Does that mean that you've got to finish very nicely here and finish well in Dubai, as well, or does that all come with the territory?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Lahiri and Matt, they are playing well at the moment.  Still got a couple rounds to go, and hopefully I'll finish off this week.   
 Q.  What's necessary here tomorrow?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Win would be nice.  And well, I really don't have any expectations.  Just going to play like today and if somebody else plays better, it's not my week.  I just want to play my best tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT