WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 7, 2015
Byeong-Hun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  There's only one place to start and that's the finish, because two eagles in the last three holes, that's spectacular, isn't it?  
BYEONG HUN AN: I was unlucky all day.  Hit the flag on No. 14 and went back into the bunker, and I was like, okay, it's not my day, and then made a bogey on the following hole.   
But got quite lucky on the next three holes.  Hit a great drive and made an eagle.  Next I hit it in the water but chipped it in for par.  So, okay, everything is coming around.   
Last hole, pushed it my 3-wood, and I was like, that's got to be in the water.  Well, I couldn't see, it's muggy, but I heard people cheering so I was like, okay, that could be good.  Got away with the last shot and then obviously made a good putt.  But it was a really weird day but I'm happy to score.   
 Q.  The last hole can be particularly troublesome, can't it?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Yes, because when you're in the water, you have to take a drop -- if it didn't hit the back.  But like I said, I got away with that one.  It was a missed shot, tried to get the bunker on the left.   
 Q.  How are you getting on with the support?  Good to have it, isn't it?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, definitely.  I feel at home and these people are really, how do I say, they are pretty passionate and they seem like they love golf.  A lot of people come out to watch golf.  It's definitely good to have the support of the fans.   
 Q.  Do you find that lifts you, as well?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, especially when you're playing well, you get excited and a bit pumped up.  I think that's how you make a good score, gets you going, get the momentum going, that definitely helps.   
 Q.  Does that mean you're pumped up and excited about Sunday, given your position?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Yes, I have a long ways to go.  The scores are quite low today because I don't think there's much wind.  A long ways to go but definitely try my best and see how I finish.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT