TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
October 31, 2015
Byeong-Hun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You came out of the gate with three consecutive birdies.  How much did that set the mood for this round?  
BYEONG HUN AN: It was a great start obviously.  Made all the birdie putts.  I made a par on the following par 5 where I should have been making a birdie.   
Ended up, I looked back and made nine birdies, but I putted great today all day and hit it great.  I'm quite happy with the start and total.   
 Q.  Did anything click with your mentality or the way you're attacking these Final Four events change at all compared to the regular season in The Race to Dubai?  
BYEONG HUN AN: A little bit, because no cuts the last four events.  There's no -- don't have to worry about the cuts and everything try to be aggressive every shot.  We've still got to play smart but I think being a little bit more aggressive.   
 Q.  With this round today, obviously you've put yourself in the mix to win the Turkish Airlines Open.  What is your approach now on Sunday?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Just like today, going to be nice fairways, greens and one putt.  That's my goal.   
 Q.  What then are your thoughts on shooting a 65 to move nicely into the mix?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Well, I played great all day.  I never thought about the score, and in the end, I made nine birdies and two bogeys.  But those two bogeys wasn't very easy, but I'm quite happy with the round overall.  It's good.   
 Q.  Presumably you knew your position coming into the third days and when you had the three birdies on the bounce to start, that's exciting, isn't it?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, definitely.  I made a couple putts and made a par on No. 4, and thought it was cooling down a little bit.  But in the end played quite well on the back nine and made a lot of putts.   
 Q.  And it's probably very important, isn't it, to finish in the style you have, as well?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, definitely, gave me a lot of confidence on my putting and my shots.  My shots were good yesterday, as well and gave me a lot of confidence.   
 Q.  So was it very much the form on the greens that's worked today, as opposed to the previous two days?  
BYEONG HUN AN: I think both.  Shots were good, hitting really close and making a lot of putts.  I think my shots were better to be honest yesterday than today.  Just the difference today is making a lot of putts.   
 Q.  What was your attitude coming into The Final Series knowing this is the last push on The European Tour?  
BYEONG HUN AN: It's a bogey bonus obviously and a lot of good players are playing, a lot of World Ranking points especially.  No putts, stress-free.  Try to be as aggressive as possible with each shot.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT