AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 19, 2017
Byeong-Hun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  66.  How would you describe it out there?  
BYEONG HUN AN: It was easier today, definitely.  The greens are a lot softer especially last couple of holes but the bogey-free I think was good.  Hit a lot of fairways and greens today.  Definitely hit it better than yesterday because the wind died down and softer greens but still I think it was a great round.   
 Q.  How much calmer were the conditions were?  
BYEONG HUN AN: I didn't today. I tried to play safe.  Yesterday, that's what I did yesterday, tried to leave myself easy chip shots because yesterday I missed a lot of greens, mostly up and down.   
But, today, like I said, greens are softer so you can really fire at it, instead of pitching 15, 20 yards short of the flag.  Had a lot of short irons in today.  That's why I hit more greens than yesterday because the wind died down and soft greens.   
 Q.  Bogey-free today.  Just get some comments on your round.  
BYEONG HUN AN: Bogey-free is always a good round and out here especially, you know, the greens are kind of softer today.  I think that's why I scored better than yesterday, and then I hit more greens today, definitely that helped, and some birdie putts out there but bogey-free, 6-under total.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
BYEONG HUN AN: I think because the wind, I've been playing better with the wind now because I think it helps on windy days because softer is obviously better into the wind.   
But, of course, I think I'm a good ball-striker compared to my putting.  I think that helps this week and hit a lot of fairways and greens helps and my putts been dropping.  That's why I was able to shoot 4-under today.   
 Q.  Timing fortuitous, the wind starts to pick up around here.  
BYEONG HUN AN: Lot calmer than expected last couple of holes when I finished.  So, hopefully it picks up but never know.  Might staying like this not calm but less wind than yesterday afternoon.  We'll see.   
 Q.  You see Dustin Johnson around the top of the leaderboard, do you feel like game on now?  
BYEONG HUN AN: He's the No. 1 player in the world.  You expect to see him out there every week.  I think his game is on top right now.  Hopefully, you know, I can play my best and see what he's got.  We'll see.   
He's the best player in the world.  Love to play with him, see how the best player in the world plays golf and looking forward to it.  Hopefully get to play with him.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
BYEONG HUN AN: Not at all, no.  That didn't help me two years ago I just barely missed out, finishing 12th.  I was trying not to think about it and just one of the events.  That's the reward of how I'm playing this year and last two years.   
So, my goal is trying to keep my card for this year.  That's my goal and I do that, it will be nice, and Top 50 in the world.  Those are the two main goals for me.  If I make it, it's good, if not, just keep my card and stay in the Top 50.   
 Q.  What's the main reason you decided to play here this week?  I think I heard you say you're going to Europe next week?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Schedule.  I'm trying to get into Memorial.  I have to finish pretty high in the FedExCup for this season so took a week off last week because I didn't get into TPC so I like playing.  I'm still young.  I've done a lot of traveling before overseas so traveling is not an issue for me.  Then I play this week and next week and my game is pretty solid so I decided to play.   
 Q.  Have you been to this part of Texas very often?  
BYEONG HUN AN: I think I've been here a couple times.  I played the Colonial a long time ago, 6, 7 years ago.  That's in Dallas, right?   
 Q.  Sort of.  
BYEONG HUN AN: Sort of.  Not quite close but I've been in Texas a lot.  It's been windy ever week when I play over here.  Played Match Play, Valero in Texas.   
This week it's windy.  But I think I'm doing pretty well.  Yeah, I like windy courses and everything is -- definitely a lot of crowds are here.  Love playing in Texas.   
 Q.  Is this your first time playing in this tournament?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, my first time.   
 Q.  For everybody else this is kind of a goodbye.  This is your first experience.  What have you liked about -- you've only been here a couple days -- what do you like about it?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Pretty firm fairways because you need to hit it straight with all the trees and I think it's probably ball-striking, you miss a shot, you know, it's a guaranteed bogey because it's so firm and the rough you can get a flyer lie so you want to stay in the fairway, hit close for the next shot.   
That's what I like, I'm driving really well so that's why it suits my game this week so hopefully next few days I'll hit more fairways.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT