BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2015
Byeong-Hun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   This is your debut in this championship and your rookie season.   Can you sum up how special this achievement is for you today?  
    BYEONG HUN AN:   It's great.   I'm still really excited and over the moon right now.   Wasn't expecting this.   I didn't know that a win was this close.   It came all of a sudden.   I've been playing well all year, but not at this event.   I never thought I would win this event.   
   
 Q.   And the rewards are plentiful, into The Open for the next three years.   How much could this change your career?  
    BYEONG HUN AN:   A lot.   It's going to be life changing.   It's great.   Definitely one of the biggest events.   It's the biggest event on The European Tour and a lot of benefits.   
   
 Q.   Fantastic performance today, you finished 21 under par, a record score.   Tell us how you are feeling walking off the 18th green?  
    BYEONG HUN AN:   Relief.   I played really well today.   Had all the confidence going into the last couple holes, too, and it was just‑‑ I can't explain it but it was great to go into the last hole with a six‑shot lead and especially walking off the green knowing that I've done it.   
   
 Q.   What were the emotions out there?  
    BYEONG HUN AN:   Nervous at the start of the day but confident on every hole because I was hitting it well and putting nicely.   There's some mistakes I made but did well.   Bogey‑free I think is very good out here.   Steady round today.  
   
 Q.   This has been a fairy tale story, after playing on The Challenge Tour this is your rookie season.   How hard have you worked?   
    BYEONG HUN AN:   It was a great experience for me the last through years on The Challenge Tour.   Definitely helped to get me winning this event.   I worked hard, yeah.   I try to enjoy it, every single event.   It definitely helped me out, The Challenge Tour, yeah.  
   
 Q.   You're in the U.S. Open and Open Championship.   Do you think it will take a while to sink in what actually happened today?  
    BYEONG HUN AN:   Yeah, it will take a while.   It's the biggest event I've won since I turned pro, and definitely got me in a lot of events and really happy with it.   
   
 Q.   Thoughts on winning this Flagship Event of The European Tour?  
    BYEONG HUN AN:   I won a major this year, really happy with it.   Got me into a lot of events.   I can't explain it in one word.   I'm just over the moon right now.  
   
 Q.   You've done it in style, excellent score and the first Asian champion of this event.   
    BYEONG HUN AN:   Definitely a good record to have.   I love that I'm the first Asian to win this event.   It's great.  
   
 Q.   Nervous to start but you looked controlled and composed after that.   
    BYEONG HUN AN:   Yeah, I was nervous, definitely, and every day on the first tee is always nervous.   But I was hitting it well all week and try to enjoy it, shot by shot, and I guess it worked out.  
   
 Q.   How does it compare to winning the U.S. Amateur?   
    BYEONG HUN AN:   It was a great challenge, yeah, and it's more special because it's my second pro win on the main tour‑‑ definitely the three wins I had definitely helped.  
   
 Q.   Potentially world's Top‑50.   
    BYEONG HUN AN:   Never thought about it to be honest.   Winning is good.   That's my mind‑set today.   If I win, that's maybe next year, but it would be nice if I win but never thought about the other things, the benefits of trying to play well today.  
   
 Q.   Are you a man who celebrates, and if so, how?   
    BYEONG HUN AN:   I really don't celebrate to be honest.   Like the events I won, I didn't do anything special.   Just had a nice dinner with my family.   That's about it.   I'm not really a party guy.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT