BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2015
Byeong-Hun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A round of 67 to go with your 64 yesterday, co‑leader going into the final round of this championship.   Just give us your thoughts on that round today?
BYEONG HUN AN:   It was good.   Started with a birdie, tap‑in birdie, so it was a good start to the day.   Was really consistent all day.   Hit it well and then missed a couple of shots, which is possible on this course.   But overall I played great today.

Q.   I know you took Peter Uihlein's advice when you first came on to The European Tour, you had the option to pursue a career in America.   Why did you pursue The European Tour?
BYEONG HUN AN:   It's a good tour.   You see a lot of good guys coming up from The European Tour first and move on to the PGA Tour.   I thought it would be great to start on to the PGA Tour.

Q.   Talk about the position you find yourself in as co‑leader going into round four. 
BYEONG HUN AN:   It's good I'm a co‑leader.   I'll try to say‑‑ just like today, just play my game. 

Q.   67 today; how did you play?
BYEONG HUN AN:   Played great.   Started with a tap‑in birdie the first hole.   I've been hitting it great all day.   Just missed a couple of tee shots but it happened.   I played great overall.   It was great.

Q.   A round of 64 yesterday matching the best round of the day yesterday.   What's your strategy around this golf course? 
BYEONG HUN AN:   Hitting it straight and hitting it close on the second shot because there are a lot of bunkers out here, especially with the tee ball.   Once you get in there, it's almost like a pot bunker, it's hard to get it close to the green.   The key is to drive it straight first and then you need to have good game all around, tee shots, second shots and even putting. 

Q.   All eyes are on you; do you relish these opportunities? 
BYEONG HUN AN:   Yeah, nervous but more exciting than nervous.   That's what I felt this morning.   I was really looking forward to playing today.   I was in the last group and hopefully tomorrow, as well.

Q.   How much are you enjoying your European Tour experience?
BYEONG HUN AN:   I love it.   I like travelling, too, so it's been great so far. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT