ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 17, 2015
Byeong-Hun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Wonderful round's golf but let's start with the hole‑in‑one, if you wouldn't mind.   What happened there?   
BEYONG‑HUN AN:   I was playing well all day.   Really steady.   Making putts.   I could have put better so it was a bit frustrating because I missed a 12‑footer on the last hole.   I saw they pulled the tee up a little bit, so makes it a little bit easier.   I had a perfect shot, executed where I aimed, and the perfect‑‑ I didn't see it going in.   I got up there, there's one guy watching, just clapping.   Thought, oh, must be close.   Walked up there, didn't see any balls; it was in the hole.   
   
 Q.   You must have come close in the past.   
BEYONG‑HUN AN:   Yeah, a couple times but never done it before.   
   
 Q.   And it is special, isn't it?  
BEYONG‑HUN AN:   It is special to do it on The European Tour.   Would have been better if I get a car, but still.   
   
 Q.   You didn't turn around and see the picture of the yacht and think you might have won that?  
BEYONG‑HUN AN:   I thought about it in practice rounds.   Must be an expensive hole‑in‑one here, but unfortunately no, still happy with the one.   
   
 Q.   You started well in this championship on the first day, troubled a little bit yesterday and now you're right back up there.   
BEYONG‑HUN AN:   Yeah, struggled a little bit yesterday.   Didn't hit many fairways and once you miss here, you can get some nasty lies.   The wind blew a little bit compared to the first round.   
So I didn't play very well yesterday but managed to make the cut, and like, okay, still have a chance for the weekend.   Today is moving day and then I think I did it quite well today.   
   
 Q.   I appreciate you're in the first group, the leaders don't start for a considerable time yet but do you fancy yourself moving into a nice finishing position?  
BEYONG‑HUN AN:   Oh, yeah, definitely.   Still got one more day.   If I do the same thing what I did today, I think‑‑ well, I'm not sure about the wind, but that all depends how the leaders play.   But I'm trying to play my game just like today would be nice.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT