ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 15, 2015
Byeong-Hun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What are your thoughts on starting 5‑under par in this championship? 
BYEONG‑HUN AN:   Very happy.   I was hitting it well coming into this week, and definitely feel fully prepared.   Really happy with the score.   I was hitting it well.   Only missed two greens and I putted quite well.   Could have been better, but as always in golf.   Quite pleased with the round today.

Q.   Plenty of things worked very nicely on what can be a challenging course?
BYEONG‑HUN AN:   Yeah, it can be, once you're not driving the ball well.   Some of the roughs are really thick and hard to get it close to the green.   I've been hitting it really well I guess, so today, just one of the days, fairways and greens and 2‑putts and 1‑putts, so it worked out great today.

Q.   How were preparations?   What have you been doing in the off‑season? 
BYEONG‑HUN AN:   I know this is a challenging course and requires a very good iron game and driving game.   I know the rough is going to be long, so try to work on my long game, too.   I can work on short game when I come here, and I think I worked a lot on the long game.

Q.   Have you had a nice bit of downtime to recharge the batteries after all the experiences of last season?
BYEONG‑HUN AN:   Yeah, definitely, I didn't have enough time I think.   Only took two weeks off since Dunhill and Leopard Creek.   Always I don't want to take too long off.   Took about three days off but seems good enough for me.

Q.   Excited to be on The European Tour and starting 2015 with all these doors opening?
BYEONG‑HUN AN:   Definitely, I'm really looking forward to this year and hopefully I'll play well. 

Q.   Did you sit down and map out a schedule for the season? 
BYEONG‑HUN AN:   Yes, I think I got my schedule done.   If something good happens, I can take it a little bit easy, but so far, I've got my schedule for the whole season.

Q.   Do you make targets, particular high targets or modest ones? 
BYEONG‑HUN AN:   Keeping my card because it's my rookie year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT