WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 5, 2017
Byeong-Hun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You told us this morning you were going to play conservative, smart, rely on your putter.  What happened out there?  
BYEONG HUN AN: The front 9 was pretty good.  I got one missed shot that led to a bogey in the front.   
Back 9, the same.  Hit a bad drive on 10, bad second, bad third, had a bogey.  Then next hole had a poor shot.  Not the best swing I had.   
I tried hanging on there.  Made some pars.  But I think 15 and 16, I should have made birdies there.  I think 15 I had a great chance to get momentum going.  Missed that.  16 was a great putt.  Just broke more than I thought.   
17, 18 I just left it in a terrible spot on 17 to get close to the flag.  On 18, terrible lie, that little hump.   
Other than that, it was not a bad round.  I did play where I wanted.  I didn't make any -- I did have some missed shots, led to some bogeys, but I didn't make any, like, 3-putts or anything.   
Just didn't work out today.   
 Q.  What are the emotions like when things aren't as they were the first three days but you still have a chance to win?  How do you try to keep it in check?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Well, I thought, you know, out of four days you try to win, you have to play three pretty good and hold on one of those days, and, you know, I mean, try to keep calm.   
I was playing well on the front.  Was just some bad shots for bogey-bogey, but I knew I was still in the lead.  But, yeah, just had a poor finish.   
 Q.  What do you learn from a day like this and a week like this?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Well, it was a great week, to be honest.  The fans are nice, and that's what's so special about this event.   
I'm looking forward to play it next year again.  I still got to work on my game.  A bit sloppy with drivers and irons and putting.  It's not like it's the last event of the year or last event for the rest of my life.   
I just can't wait to come back next year.  It will be great.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT