MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2010
Byeong-Hun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Did you get used to the greens?  
 BYEONG-HUN AN: I just can't read the greens. The speed was all right, but I left a few putts short. But other than that the putts were okay. It was just misreading the greens is all.  
  
  Q. You probably got a lot of advice from a lot different people leading up today. Some of them have you thought, I'm not sure about that, did any of them turn out to be true that you heard? Something that you were not too sure about turn out to be very true?  
 BYEONG-HUN AN: I expected the greens to be faster definitely the first few holes out there, but, yeah, well like Chris said, the greens should have been a lot faster, but actually compared to the practice rounds it was similar. It was a little bit faster, but not that much. But I think that was wrong. But other than that, I think everything else was perfect, yeah.   
  
  Q. The first day out are you going to feel differently tomorrow?  
 BYEONG-HUN AN: Well, yeah, just because it's the first round, who knows what I'm going to shoot, but tomorrow I don't want to have to shoot -- I don't know what I have to shoot, but I got to go low tomorrow.  
  
  Q. A lot of times when you play in tournaments before this week there's expectations on you to do well. This week there's no expectations for amateurs to do well. Nobody really expects you to be on the leaderboard. Is that actually kind of a nice change of pace?  
 BYEONG-HUN AN: Well, I would like to be on the leaderboard, definitely. But I didn't have the high expectations from the amateurs, but it's still been great. There's good players here and I'm sure that they will make it up there, but not me today.   
  
  Q. Talk about your emotions on the first tee and walking off the first tee this morning.   
 BYEONG-HUN AN: Definitely a lot of people. There's a lot of people around the tee box and I was not nervous, but there was a lot of excitement going on there and that gives me a little nerves. It was all right. I wasn't that nervous.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 BYEONG-HUN AN: All he said was good shot and thanks. Great shot. Good putt. That's all he said. He didn't say that much.   
  
  Q. I'm guessing though that you could probably learn. You're playing with the defending champion and were you kind of trying to follow some of the things that he was doing and did that help at all?  
 BYEONG-HUN AN: Well definitely I've enjoyed watching him play today and he has his own way to play golf and I know I'll never play golf like that. All I can say is he's a good player, he's solid, he made putts and has a great short game. He's definitely a great player.  
  
  Q. Was there one shot today that was particularly memorable?  
 BYEONG-HUN AN: I remember the good holes now. I remember the first hole I started off, the second shot it was pretty good. I should have laid up though, I guess. I made a good up-and-down, but still that was, yeah, the second shot was a little not good for me.   
  
  Q. Were you looking at the leaderboard at all today?  
 BYEONG-HUN AN: Yeah, every hole. Yeah.   
  
  Q. You're probably closer to them than at some of the other places.   
 BYEONG-HUN AN: I saw some of the leaderboards and Matteo's name was on it. He was swinging well. I was 3-over, 4-over, I was trying to come back with some birdies and that, but those last few holes I tried to finish strong, so.  
  
  Q. Where did you have birdies?  
 BYEONG-HUN AN: 15 only. That's how bad I was playing.  
  
  Q. It's a little windy out there too?  
 BYEONG-HUN AN: Yeah, it was playing pretty tough with this wind and I just didn't make any birdies on the front nine and I had a lot of chances.  
  
  Q. How many times have you played this course?  
 BYEONG-HUN AN: Twice.   
  
  Q. Before today?  
 BYEONG-HUN AN: Yes, before today. Just twice. Sunday, Monday, Tuesday. Yeah.   
  
  Q. So you can compare playing the course without all these people and all the cameras and all that to today? Was it different?  
 BYEONG-HUN AN: Well, there were a lot of people Monday too. So it's not really that different. There's still a lot of people out here, a little bit more, but there are a lot of people on Monday too so I didn't feel any extra pressure.  
  
  Q. But how about the roars?  
 BYEONG-HUN AN: Yeah, the people are screaming, especially, 15, 16, 17, you can hear everything. And, well, it's still exciting hearing the roars.   
  
  Q. You want to come back again and again and again it sounds like.   
 BYEONG-HUN AN: Yeah. I love playing here. The people here, I love to hear them screaming, yeah.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT