WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 4, 2017
Byeong-Hun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MARK WILLIAMS: We'd like to welcome tournament leader Ben An after 54 holes, a pair of 66s and a 65 today, Ben.  Seeking your first PGA TOUR victory, you came close last year at the Zurich Classic in New Orleans in a playoff.   
Your thoughts on today?  And then we will jump into some questions.   
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, I played pretty well obviously last three days.  Bogey-free again today, I think that was pretty big.  I don't care how many shots' lead I have in the final round, but I'm just happy with today's round.  My goal will be bogey-free again and just play smart.   
MARK WILLIAMS: That putt on the last hole, nine or ten feet for par, how important was that going into tomorrow?   
BYEONG HUN AN: Definitely, it was big.  Obviously I try to make every putt, but I think, like I said, the bogey-free gave me a lot of confidence.  Seems that my short game is in good position.  I did make some good par putts today, as well, just like last few days.   
Hopefully tomorrow, just keep the same, and then I will be happy.  Doesn't matter if I win or not.  Bogey-free and shooting 6-under, can't do better than that.   
MARK WILLIAMS: Questions?   
 Q.  When you won in 2015 at the BMW, you were probably sitting in the lead overnight, right, after the third round?  
BYEONG HUN AN: I think so, yeah.   
 Q.  How does that experience help you tonight and tomorrow?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Well, that week I think I slept great.  I probably get more nervous on Wednesday night than, like, Friday or Saturday nights.  I don't know why.   
I had a good start on Thursday, Friday, and today.  My confidence is up there with my iron games.  And then, you know, as long as I drive it well tomorrow and play safe, I think I have a good chance.  I think that's my goal tomorrow again is just bogey-free.   
I have done it at the BMW, I think.  It's totally different golf course, but the fact that I did it before, won it before, I think that probably will help me a lot.   
 Q.  You got to 15 under after 10, had a 3-shot lead.  Maybe disappointed you couldn't extend it a bit more on the back 9?  Were there a lot of birdie possibilities?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Well, I birdied 10 and 17.  Obviously 17 is quite short, a birdie, but 13 I think should have -- you know, it was a tough lie.  Back corner, and the bunker shot I had.  So it was bad putt.   
I could have done better, but could have been worse.  Could have been bogey on 16 and 18, but 2-under the back 9 is not too bad, I think.  I'm happy with that.   
 Q.  When anyone is playing as well as you are, you make it look easy and effortless.  Your course management has been just tremendous this week.  What would you feel is the reason that you're playing this course so well, given that it's so new to you?  And secondly, since you're still new to PGA TOUR fans, what would you describe as the best element or elements of your game?  
BYEONG HUN AN: The course I think just suits my eyes, I guess.  The hole shaping, and there is not much of a dogleg left or right.  You basically hit drivers out there and try to carry all the bunkers.   
I think the yardage fit me nicely on the second shots.  I think everything just suits my game on this course.  I like desert golf courses.  Never finished worse than 13th in Middle East, and I just don't know why.  Maybe if you miss you're in the desert and can still play shots instead of going in the water.   
I think the last couple of holes freaks me out because there is water here and there.  Just numbers, I think, has been great, my tee shots and second shots into the green.  The strategy is to play smart, I think.  They'll tuck some flags out there tomorrow, I think, and try to play middle of the green, try to make the putt, because not many people are going to go for it, because I think greens might get really firm, I guess.   
So all depends how the conditions will be, but I think same game plan as today will be fine.  Same tee shots and be smart.   
 Q.  And then as far as the best element or elements of your game to fans that may not be as familiar to you.  
BYEONG HUN AN: I don't know.  Sometimes I hit really well and then my iron game is pretty good.  Last two weeks my short game has been great, I think.  Made a lot of up-and-downs here and there.   
My putts have been great.  Just not a usual thing for me, because I'm putting bad last couple of months.  But I think my iron game is pretty good.  I think that's probably strongest my game, comparing to short game and putting.   
 Q.  You seem to have a very laid-back temperament.  What's your temperament out on the course?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Not great (smiling).   
 Q.  Would you describe it?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, I think I've gotten a lot better compared to last couple of years.  And I know those things doesn't help.  Try to be relaxed.  Everyone make mistakes.  As long as I don't make stupid mistakes, I will be fine.   
Like I said, it doesn't help.  I try to calm myself down after a bad shot, and I know I'm not perfect golfer, so I have to expect -- I have to take it.   
I try to be nice on the golf course, but it's not easy, but try to do it when no one is watching me.   
 Q.  There were almost 205,000 people out here today.  What do you think of this whole scene?  
BYEONG HUN AN: It was crazy.  Last couple holes, that many people around the course is insane.  16 obviously, but 17 and 18, when you walk to the green, it was absolutely packed around the green, left and right of the green, everywhere.   
I think it was pretty cool.  Never seen people like this.  Just a bit nervous.  My shot on 16 went left into the rough.   
But I think it's fun.  As long as they don't yell on my downswing, I'm really happy with it.  Just keeping noise, I really don't mind.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT