WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 3, 2017
Byeong-Hun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What a way to finish off your round with a 35-foot birdie on the 18th green.  Tell me about it.  
BYEONG HUN AN: I didn't make good putts the last few days.  I always make one of those, I guess, in a round.  I saw a perfect line, and as long as I put a good pace, I think definitely it will go in.   
It was a good putt, I think.  Perfect speed.  A bit harder than I wanted, but it caught that right lip and went in.   
 Q.  You hit only 5 of 14 fairways and yet hit 15 of 18 greens.  You were very close to the fairway but just off the edges.  
BYEONG HUN AN: I think except one drive, No. 2 I hit in the left desert.  Except that, I think I was pretty close.  Mostly I'd miss it in the wide spot, I guess.  When the pin is on the left, miss it right.  Shot to the green.  Once I'm in the rough, hit it to the middle of the green.  That's how you're gonna play it here.   
The greens are really, really firm.  I didn't miss it by much.  Just missed it by three or four yards.  You know, hopefully next few days I will hit more than five fairways.   
 Q.  Seven for seven scrambling and made more than 100 feet in putts.  
BYEONG HUN AN: That's always good (smiling).  I think I made a lot of pars.  Made long par putts.  I think that helped.  Hopefully next few days I will probably make more putts.  So far I'm quite happy.   
 Q.  Only one bogey in 36 holes.  
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah.  Shouldn't have been a bogey.  A three-putt from 15 feet.  Wasn't easy.  Would have been nice to have a bogey-free two days.  I think my short game is pretty good this week.  We'll see.   
 Q.  Tell us about this ticket giveaway you have going on social media.  
BYEONG HUN AN: It's a good thing to do.  Get a couple of tickets left.  Better than wasting them.   
It's fun.  Happy to help someone who can come and support us and watch this nice golf.  It's a good thing to do.  Probably do the next couple weeks.   
 Q.  Give us a quick overview of your round today.  You're in pretty good shape at 10-under.  
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, it was good.  I don't think I had -- I only hit five fairways.  I thought I had more than that, to be honest, but I think I only miss it by just a little bit.  Had fairly good lies when I missed it.   
Missing in the right spot after that, key today and yesterday.  Two-putts when you're in the rough, that's how you've got to play, and then take the chances when you have birdie chances, like par-5, par-4s.   
Great so far.  Short game has been good.  Hopefully keep it going.   
 Q.  Great round today.  First time here.  First time seeing the course this week?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Yep, first time seeing it.   
 Q.  How is it working for you?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Well, I got here Monday.  I think I saw plenty.  I was hitting balls -- especially last week, a bit shaky, but Sunday I played really well, especially the back 9.   
Had some great shots to get the confidence going, and I have confidence in the driver.  Hit five fairways, but still, I was able to hit it hard.  It wasn't going like 20 or 30 yards left or right.  A lot of holes, had some carries over the bunker, and when you hit it long, it's an advantage this week.  These greens are pretty firm, and it's going to get pretty firm, too.  It should help.   
 Q.  You have talked about focusing on the PGA TOUR this year as a first-time member.  Can you talk about how much you're going to play here?  Have you mapped your schedule out for the long term?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, I think playing over in Europe I think four more events, including Irish, Scottish, maybe Italian Open after the playoffs here.  So mostly over here.  Maybe one or two events, I'm not sure, depends how I play and how I feel.   
I think I planned out most of the events so far, yeah.   
 Q.  You will stay busy?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, I'll be very busy.   
 Q.  Your experience with the 16, 17, 18 holes, that stretch?  
BYEONG HUN AN: To be honest, I look forward to playing those holes, 16, 17, 18 great finishing holes.  I love people making noise.  I really don't mind, as long as they don't make sudden noise.   
It's really fun.  Definitely nervous on the tee, but I think I hit two great shots yesterday and today, and hopefully another two more greens next two days.   
 Q.  Last year obviously, or two years ago, you missed out on that Presidents Cup barely.  Is that on your radar?  
BYEONG HUN AN: We'll see.  We'll see.  Not even thinking about it, because it didn't work out, thinking about it two years ago.   
It's a bit of upset, but to be honest, I think maybe because of that, when I miss it, I think I played better after that.  Played really well, one event in Korea, like two weeks after and played really well the final series in Europe.   
If I make it, it's good.  I've got two more years.  I'm sure I can play next 20 years.  If I don't make it, it's fine.  If I make it -- I think playing better in the other tournaments are more important to me.  I think that's my main goal.   
I think that reward is to play in the Presidents Cup, so I'm not really playing for the Presidents Cup, but try not think about it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT