WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 2, 2017
Byeong-Hun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A 66, a clean-looking card.  What did you do well today?  
BYEONG HUN AN: I sort of found, started No. 10, and 10 and 11, basically some par saves.  24-foot putt on 10.  Hit it in the water, tee shot on 11, still got a par.  I think it was the key for today.  Got the momentum going somehow.   
Drove it really well, rest of the holes, except 8.  Was shaky.  Still made a par.  Good par saves out there.  I think that was crucial.  Other holes I played pretty well.   
Birdies, tap-ins, and then eagle was nice 15-footer.  I think I drove it really well.  I think was the key this week.  And then I putted well, also, some par putts.   
 Q.  There's over 100,000 people out there.  You have never been here before.  What was it like?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Well, front 9 and back 9 is totally different.  Especially 14, 15, 16, 17, 18.  Front 9 was really quiet and no one was really watching.  But 16th was really loud.  I couldn't hear my caddie talking at the tee box.  I had to yell at him.   
I've gotta get used to it.  I really liked the atmosphere.  It was fun playing it.   
 Q.  You won enough money last year on the PGA TOUR to get your license to play here.  You can now play both in Europe and here.  How will you split the schedule up?  
BYEONG HUN AN: I think I will play mostly over here and try to play (indiscernible) Europe.  I'm sure I will be playing (indiscernible) because I like the golf course, and then a couple before the Majors.  We'll see how it goes.  All depends how I play.   
 Q.  What was the key to your start out there today?  
BYEONG HUN AN: I think it was a good start.  I had a chance to make a bogey-bogey start, but I made a great 20-footer, or 18-footer for a par on the 1st.  Drove into the water on the 2nd but still managed to get a par.   
I think that was key.  Would have been a tough round if I started bogey-bogey in this course.  Got some momentum going.  I hit really good shots on the par-5, next par-4.  Three birdies inside three feet.   
Kept the momentum going.  I didn't hit it great, I guess, but I hit it safe and smart, I think.  If it goes in, it's good, but it's not an easy golf course, I think.  So take advantage of easy holes, and I think that's what I did today.  That's why I had a bogey-free card.   
 Q.  We have seen how important par-5s are.  They are reachable but they are not necessarily easy.  How important is it to get some birdies and score well on those holes?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Well, obviously the course is playing very well.  There are a couple long par-4s.  Par-5s are not easy.  Hitting 6-iron, hitting a 4-iron.  I think I hit it pretty well today (indiscernible) hybrids.  Especially on 15, not the widest.  Probably had to hit a hybrid, but that's why I laid up.   
Other holes, driver, still got a chance to go for it.  It was not easy.  Compared to (indiscernible).   
 Q.  First time at this tournament, overall what did you think of the experience?  So many people out there today.  
BYEONG HUN AN: It was crazy.  I started the back 9, and it's totally different nine holes.  Back 9 was so crazy, so many people out there.  Front 9, no one, 10 guys watching, felt really quiet.   
The back 9 was crazy, especially the last couple of holes.  16, I couldn't hear my caddie talking in the tee box.  Had to yell at each other.  It was pretty cool, yeah.  Hit it on the green and made par.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT