THE 145TH OPEN
July 15, 2016
Byeong-Hun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How hard was that?
BYEONG HUN AN: It was hard.  It was hard, especially the first couple holes.  Then I think the wind died down a little bit, but the last couple holes were tough, I think.  I did make bogey.  Bogeyed the last two holes, but still, it was blowing hard sideways and those putts are not easy.
So overall I think I played great today.  I shot the same scores yesterday, but today definitely felt better.
Q. When it's like this, what was the mindset out there?  It was pouring.  It was raining.
BYEONG HUN AN: Trying to make pars every hole.  When you hit a good drive and if you have short irons in, that's when you go for it.  But other than that, I mean, the side wind is not easy.  It could be into, it could be down.  That's what makes it so tough, I think.  A couple of the driving holes are hard.  So just got to battle it out and grind.
Q. Not quite the finish you wanted, but you're going into the weekend.  What are you looking forward to the next round?
BYEONG HUN AN: Hopefully the weather is going to be nice.  Tomorrow I heard it should be better.  But it's one of the courses you can go really low if there's no wind or no rain.  But I've still got two more days.  I'm still 8-back, but I've got a long ways to go, but I've got two more days.  Just try to have some fun.
Q. Links course is not your everyday course on Tour.  How do you feel on this?  Are you comfortable playing on this course?
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, I think so.  It's a bit different this week because the fairways are quite soft and the greens are soft, so you don't need to really pitch like 20, 30 short of the green and try to run it on.  The front of the green here is really soft, so it really stops right away.
Just got to play some decent shots.  You've got to put it under the wind and try to roll it up there.  I mean, links courses are not my favourite, but just got to handle it and try to like it.  That was my attitude this year.
Q. How much are you looking forward to Rio?
BYEONG HUN AN: Oh, I'm looking forward to it, definitely.  It's my honour to be able to play and represent my country.  All the best athletes in the world are going to be there, and I'm definitely looking forward to it.
Q. Will your parents be with you?
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, definitely, yeah.
Q. Does it mean (inaudible) that you can do what they did?
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, of course definitely.  I have a chance to play in the Olympics and they played.  That's definitely special than any other guys because my parents played in the Olympics.  That's what makes it more special, definitely.
Q. Have they spoken to you anything about the experience of being in the Olympics?
BYEONG HUN AN: No, definitely not.  Never talked about anything.  We didn't say anything about making to the team.  All we talked about is, did you get your flu shot or did you get your immunization shots?  That's about it about the Olympics.  We didn't really talk about anything else.
Q. What do you think it will mean if you can get a medal there, let alone a gold medal?  And what do you think it will mean for golf back in Asia?
BYEONG HUN AN: Oh, that will be pretty big.  There are a lot of good players playing.  Although some people pulled out, still got the best field in the world, I think.  Like I said, it's normal PGA Tour event, I'm thinking of it that way.  Going down and playing in a limited field.  But a win is a win and a medal is a bonus.  But I hope I can get out a medal by trying to play like a regular PGA Tour.  I don't want to put extra pressure on myself.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT