PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2019
Kelly Kraft
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You have a nice day?  
KELLY KRAFT: It was great.  It was all good.   
 Q.  What made things so gettable?  
KELLY KRAFT: I hit a lot of fairways today.  I had a lot of looks from the fairway.  I think I missed two today, maybe one yesterday, but I was just, you know, I kept having irons from the fairway.  It's pretty much that simple out here for me.  It's not a course I'm going to overpower, so it's something we're just kind of staying in our lane and plodding away and hitting my driver really straight, pretty much where I'm looking, and if I can continue doing that, I'm going to have a lot more looks at birdie on the weekend.   
I'm an average length player and when I play well, I put really well and I get balls up-and-down and that's what I've been doing the last couple days.  I'm taking advantage of the holes when I do have wedges because I'm a good wedge player, too.  The par 5 on the front nine -- I'm sorry, on the back nine today, what is that, like 14 or so, I hit a wedge in there to five or six feet and those are just the kind of type of things that I've got to continue doing on this course to move up the leaderboard.   
 Q.  What do you have to do tomorrow --  
KELLY KRAFT: Don't look at leaderboards, and it's just me and my caddie out there and he's telling me where to hit it and I'm trying to hit it there, and for the first few days it's been pretty easy honestly.  A driver, if I've missed the fairway, it's not because I've hit a bad shot or misjudged the wind.  All my balls are starting right down my line and I'm standing up there and hitting as hard as I can and it's coming down right where I'm looking.   
 Q.  What do you think about the way the course has been set up over the first two days?  
KELLY KRAFT: I think it's good.  A couple holes -- it's my first time here but I think they have added some length to a few of the holes.  Like No. 9, personally I think that hole is designed to be played from a little further up maybe.  Just because, you know, average length hitters like me, I'm hitting it and the ball is rolling back in front of that bunker and I can't see the green.   
That's the case with a lot of the holes here.  It's hard to see greens coming in on second shots but I think the course has been set up really long and I imagine they would like to get a little more firm this weekend, if they don't have any more rain, which will make putting and getting balls up-and-down a little more tricky just because this thing is a beast and you have some long clubs in and it's going to be hard to stop them.   
 Q.  What were you going to be doing if you weren't here?  
KELLY KRAFT: Nothing.   
 Q.  Just nothing?  
KELLY KRAFT: Nothing.  I was going to be here.   
 Q.  Adam Scott having a good round, as well?  
KELLY KRAFT: Yeah, we're both making putts and feeding off of each other.  It was fun.  He rolled in, I think he birdied the first four holes or something, three holes.  He made a bunch of long putts, and you start seeing balls go in early like that, makes the rest of the day a little more fun.  Every time you get a look, you're thinking about rolling it in.  Thank you.  Appreciate it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT