BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 2, 2016
Kelly Kraft
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Okay.  Not the ideal finish, but still eight birdies on the day.  Your 15 points is the highest single-day point so far of the tournament.  Few comments on what was going right.
KELLY KRAFT: I actually hit it the same I did as the first two days.  But I finally made some putts.  I worked hard, putted yesterday for about two hours after my round and found a little something and just started kind of rolling in some 10-, 15-footers early and got it rolling.
The last hole is unfortunate.  But I actually thought I hit a good drive there.  And I guess the wind was a little more into me than I thought and I took a little too aggressive line, but that's all right.
Q. On a day like this, where you finished early, kind of put a number up there, do you just kind of wipe it out of your mind since you've still got the bulk of the day; you likely are going to have a later tee time tomorrow?
KELLY KRAFT: Yeah, I'm just going to go -- I hope I'll have a later tee time tomorrow.  I think with 15 points today I probably will.  Not going to think about it too much.  Hopefully the wind picks up a little bit in the afternoon, makes it a little tougher for the guys.
But I know the greens do get a little more tricky.  There's less guys on them on the weekend.  But still they're poa annua and they do get a little bumpy.  Hopefully I can just keep rolling some putts in tomorrow.
Q. Finally, the format, do you like the format?  Does it give you cause to be a little more aggressive maybe?
KELLY KRAFT: Yeah, it's cool.  You get some of those holes where they're kind of risk/reward and you can take a little more aggressive line, because, really, bogeys don't kill you.  They're minus 1.  But if you make a birdie you're back in the positive.
So it's -- you can get a little more aggressive.  But it's interesting, keeping your score in your head -- honestly, I don't even know what I shot today.  But you're like, okay, I'm at 15 points now.
Q. 65, maybe.
KELLY KRAFT: So it was a good day.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT