MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2012
Kelly Kraft
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How would you sum it up, your whole experience here?  
KELLY KRAFT:   It was a great experience.   It was really fun being out here.   I didn't play very well, but it was a good time being out here.   Glad I got to play all four rounds.   
   
 Q.   Was there something you did differently today to try to change things up or maybe start your game a little bit?  
KELLY KRAFT:   No.   I just ‑‑ my swing is just not where it needs to be right now.   It's just feels kind of lost.   Really I had no idea where I was hitting it today.   
Got a week off, so I'm going to go home and work on.  
   
 Q.   This is such a difficult course, are you going to take from it if I can do this at the Masters, like swinging the heavy bat in the on‑deck circle, does it give you that kind of sense like now I know what hard really is?  
KELLY KRAFT:   I've played courses that are just as hard as this or maybe even harder.   I didn't play well.   You have got to get shots out here.   You can make a lot of birdies if you hit good shots.   If you hit bad shots, you can make a lot of doubles.  
   
 Q.   You plan to be back here next year, I assume?   
KELLY KRAFT:   Hopefully.   I have got to win something.  
   
 Q.   You are not going to get in the Crow's Nest next time?  
KELLY KRAFT:   No, no.   That will be my only time in the Crow's Nest.  
   
 Q.   Did you meet somebody or make a kind of friendship that you think will carry through for later, maybe somebody that you didn't expect?   Sometimes there is Mickelson or Woods or something that kind of establishes a relationship, anybody that ‑‑  
KELLY KRAFT:   I met several players this week.   I mean, I've never played any tournaments with them before, so I met some players this week.   You know, just meet a lot of nice people, a lot of members out here that are nice people and I do plan to come back.  
   
 Q.   What are some of the things that you've learned that you are going to take away and think about it when you are working on your game?   
KELLY KRAFT:   Well, I learned that I need to learn how to hit a draw.   I haven't been able to hit a draw this week.   I just need to go back home and just kind of go back to the fundamentals and kind of get back in my own rhythm.  
   
 Q.   Do you have any kind of special celebration for turning pro tomorrow?   
KELLY KRAFT:   I'm playing in a little Pro‑Am deal tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Is that the World Pro‑Am?   Are you playing the pro or the amateur?  
KELLY KRAFT:   I'm playing as a pro.  
   
 Q.   Where is this?  
KELLY KRAFT:   It's in Myrtle Beach.  
   
 Q.   The thing with Hootie & The Blowfish and all that?  
KELLY KRAFT:   Yeah, yeah.  
   
 Q.   You are going to be famous now when you go there, Kelly Kraft from the Masters?   Your introduction at the first fee, how is that going to go?   
KELLY KRAFT:   It will be all right, just don't tell them what I shot.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT