MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2012
Kelly Kraft
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How is it out there today?  
KELLY KRAFT:   It was fun.   It was good.   We had perfect greens.   It was a good day for it.   I mean, it was just ‑‑ got off to kind of a rough start, 3 over.   Brought it back to even after three birdies in a row on 8, 9, and 10, and then I played my last four holes 4 over.   So that was a little rough patch.  
   
 Q.   Did you get to play fast and did you like it that way?   
KELLY KRAFT:   Yeah, it was good.   It was good.   Didn't have to wait on anybody.   It was kind of ‑‑ I didn't think we played too fast.   I thought it was a good pace.   And it was good.  
   
 Q.   Is that almost like making it seem like less of a Masters and more of another kind of tournament when you are the first group and you kind of have everything in front of you like that?   
KELLY KRAFT:   No.   I mean, we're still out here playing Augusta National.   It's nice and it's always to be able to play out here.   
   
 Q.   Have you had a Masters moment where everything sinks in or was making the cut ‑‑ or was there a Masters moment?   
KELLY KRAFT:   Probably making the cut was pretty special.   I get to play all four days.   It was a goal of mine.   Now I've got one more round.  
   
 Q.   Are you a Texas native through and through?  
KELLY KRAFT:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   We're all here in Georgia.   Does the Masters in Texas carry a different kind or are golfers ‑‑ it's just the mecca for golf?   
KELLY KRAFT:   Yeah, it's still the capital of golf here.   Everybody wants to be able to come here.   I think it's the same all over the place.  
   
 Q.   What are your goals for tomorrow?   
KELLY KRAFT:   Tomorrow I'm going to try to get out and ‑‑ I'd like to shoot one round under par out here.   I don't feel like my game is that far off.   And you know, just cover a lot of mistakes and I'll be hopefully shoot under par tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   I know it's still early.   Patrick is a couple of groups behind you.   Are you kind of keeping track of all the amateurs?  
KELLY KRAFT:   I mean, yeah, but after today's round I might have shot myself out of it.  
   
 Q.   Are you talking about for the Silver Cup?   
KELLY KRAFT:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Do you have a place in your bag for that in your luggage?   
KELLY KRAFT:   Yeah, I would.   I would definitely have a place in my bag for that.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your schedule after this week?   I know you are (inaudible) have you written for exemptions, gotten some yet?   Do you know which tournaments you are going to be playing in?   
KELLY KRAFT:   Yeah, I'm going to be playing in ‑‑ my first start will be Valero in San Antonio and then I've got ‑‑ playing the Byron Nelson, playing Memorial, AT&T and still work on some other ones.  
   
 Q.   The folks at Baron Hills told me they requested a club and you sent a driver?  
KELLY KRAFT:   Yeah, I sent a driver up there.  
   
 Q.   Was that hard to part with?  
KELLY KRAFT:   No, no.   I ended up switching anyway right after or a little ways after.   Yeah, it was good.   They can keep that up there and it will be nice.  
   
 Q.   Are you turning pro Monday?  
KELLY KRAFT:   Monday.  
   
 Q.   Have you got a time of day even?  
KELLY KRAFT:   I don't know about the time, just Monday.   
   
 Q.   You have been thinking about it a long time, I imagine?  
KELLY KRAFT:   Yeah, Monday will be my ‑‑ tomorrow is my last round of amateur golf.  
   
 Q.   A little overwhelming, isn't it, to do all this in one weekend?  
KELLY KRAFT:   Pretty cool, pretty cool.   Still a lot of golf left.  
   
 Q.   Do you think starting in San Antonio is an advantage or benefit because you are a Texas native?  
KELLY KRAFT:   It will be pretty easy to get there.   I think I will be a little more comfortable playing closer to home.   You know, I'm just ready to kind of start my career and get doing.  
   
 Q.   How far is that from (inaudible)?  
KELLY KRAFT:   I'm living in Dallas now, so probably four hours, pretty close.   
   
 Q.   Is there something, a souvenir, that you are going to take with you from Augusta?   
KELLY KRAFT:   No, not really.   Just trying to enjoy my time here.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT