MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2012
Kelly Kraft
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What were you thinking over that putt?   How was the pressure?
KELLY KRAFT:   I knew I had to make it.   I mean, there was ‑‑ I didn't care how far by I hit it.   It was miss or make, and thank God I made it.

Q.   How many people do you have here?
KELLY KRAFT:   I don't know.   We've got a house full and a few of them are staying other places.   I bet there is probably 15 or 20 of them.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
KELLY KRAFT:   It's great.   This is what I stayed an amateur for, to play in this.   Now I get to play all four rounds, so it's even better.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
KELLY KRAFT:   It's just me and Patrick up there right now and I think I saw his name at 5.   I guess we're going to be up there a few more days.   You know, we've just been hanging out and we kind of go back and hang out with our family in the evening time and get back up and just do a little relaxing up there.

Q.   What does this mean, especially after the start on Thursday? 
KELLY KRAFT:   I mean, I just wasn't going to give up.   I mean, I've been playing a lot of tournaments lately so I have been getting off to slow starts.   Just not real comfortable up there in the beginning of my rounds, same thing today. 
You know, to be 4 over after 10 holes yesterday and finished 5 over, I feel pretty comfortable with that.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
KELLY KRAFT:   Maybe for a split second, but then you have got to hit your next shot.   Kind of got on a hot streak yesterday birdies 12 through 15 and kind of changed my need a little bit. 

Q.   Were you paying a lot of attention to how close you were to that cut the last few holes coming in or were you trying to stick it out? 
KELLY KRAFT:   It was in the back of my mind definitely on the last few holes.   But I mean, on the front nine not really.   Just trying to play and ‑‑ but definitely coming in I kind of wanted to ‑‑ I took a look and wanted to see where I was at.

Q.   How emotional was it walking back here knowing your family was here?   You got a pretty good cheer?
KELLY KRAFT:   That was cool.   That was nice.   I'm glad I could play well to let them watch all four days.

Q.   How long were the putts on 12 through 15 yesterday? 
KELLY KRAFT:   I hit it ‑‑ shot two feet on 12 and then probably made a 10‑footer on 13.   14, I made probably a 30‑footer from just the back fringe.   And 15, probably about an 8‑footer.

Q.   What did you hit into 12?
KELLY KRAFT:   8‑iron.

Q.   Talk about the atmosphere‑‑
KELLY KRAFT:   I like 12.   I can play that hole.

Q.   Talk about the atmosphere with Charl and Keegan. 
KELLY KRAFT:   It was fun.   They are good guys, good players.   (Inaudible).   They know what they are doing out there.   I kind of watch them and see how they play the course.   It's just a lot of people out there.   It's fun.

Q.   You obviously spent a lot of time preparing for this and had time to think about it, but can you possibly prepare yourself for it?   The expectations had to be exceeded by the crowd and everything else?
KELLY KRAFT:   No.   I think you can come in as good being here as an amateur, never playing in anything this good, you can come in as good as you can ever hit it and still not, you know, make the shot.   So I felt ‑‑ it just took me a little while to get going.   I kind of felt comfortable out there.

Q.   Have you thought about what's next?   Was this your goal? 
KELLY KRAFT:   It was one of my goals.   Now I have another goal, to play the weekend under par.

Q.   What kind of stuff did Pat tell you?   Any good advice that you remember using at some point?
KELLY KRAFT:   Yeah, I worked with Pat on my putting for a long time and now my full swing for a couple of years.   He's just ‑‑ he just keeps me relaxed and if something is going wrong on my swing, we work on it.   If it wasn't for him, I probably wouldn't have made that putt on the last hole.

Q.   Why is that?
KELLY KRAFT:   He turned my putting around when I got to SMU, and it was just ‑‑ now I'm a good putter and I used to be a bad putter.

Q.   No secret breaks or anything like that?
KELLY KRAFT:   No.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT