MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2012
Kelly Kraft
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KELLY KRAFT:   I settled down and made some birdies there on the back nine.

Q.   What was the discomfort for you?   Are you gripping the club too tight or what is it? 
KELLY KRAFT:   It's more like just not being ‑‑ not being comfortable, I guess.   Just not being ‑‑ just not ‑‑ it's nerves, I guess.

Q.   Some of these younger guys have talked about not really needing to fear the course.   If they hit good shots, they could make good scores.   Did you come in ‑‑ is that your attitude about this, too? 
KELLY KRAFT:   Yeah, I mean, you hit good shots and the scores will reward you.   The greens are so good, you can make a lot of putts on them. 
But you have got to ‑‑ with it being so long today and a little wet, you get mud balls out there and there is nothing you can do about it.   You hit good shots that didn't turn out.   I kind of did that on the front nine with a couple of mud balls
Q.Do you wish they had lift, clean and place today? 
KELLY KRAFT:   It would have been nine, but it wouldn't have happened.   It got a lot more ‑‑ I didn't get near as many on the back nine.   I think it kind of dried out a little bit. 

Q.   At what point in your round did you notice it is getting firmer?   Maybe I won't have to worry about mud balls anymore?
KELLY KRAFT:   Probably 11.   I had a big mud ball on 10. 
On 11, I noticed it starting to get a little more firm and I don't really remember a mud ball after that. 

Q.   What's your approach for tomorrow knowing that you could make the cut?
KELLY KRAFT:   Going to go out and try to make birdies.   That's kind of what I started to do on the back nine.   I made a bunch of good swings together and ended up making four in a row.   So just going to try that.

Q.   What would you say about this group of amateurs, three of you guys were at par or better? 
KELLY KRAFT:   It shows that some of us amateurs can play.   I know all these guys and I know all of them are really good players, Cantlay and Bryden and ‑‑ I mean, they are ‑‑ Corbin, they are all really good players.

Q.   Other than that first tee shot, was there another shot out there somewhere where you felt like an amateur, you kind of look at it like this is pretty tough? 
KELLY KRAFT:   No, no.   I mean, this golf course is just long and ‑‑ especially for me.   I don't hit it as far as some of the other guys.   You just take it for what it is and try to hit the best shot you can.

Q.   Best shot of the day? 
KELLY KRAFT:   I would say 12.   I hit an 8‑iron in there to a couple of feet, so that was nice.

Q.   The group you were playing with (inaudible)?
KELLY KRAFT:   I mean, they were nice, but it's a tournament round so everybody is pretty focused.   It was good to play with them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT