THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 8, 2018
Kelly Kraft
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Well, I know the day didn't go like you wanted, but Bubba said it was playing really hard, and Kevin just went out and ran away, didn't he?  
KELLY KRAFT: Yeah, he did.  He must have made a lot of putts.  I didn't make hardly anything.  It was hard to stay aggressive on the greens.  They got so firm and fast.  Yesterday late and all day to day.  It was just the greens were kind of crusty on top, and you had to hit the putt so soft, they were easy to bump off line.  You know, I thought I did a pretty good job for the most part with my speed, except for a couple holes.  That's just the way it goes sometimes.  But that birdie on the last sure did feel good.   
 Q.  It must feel good too because this is a nice consolation prize to go to The Open, right?  
KELLY KRAFT: Yeah, it's awesome.  I've never played in one.  So I get to go over there and play Carnoustie and see what that's all about.   
 Q.  Would you mind summing up your week?  It was a good week for you.  
KELLY KRAFT: Yeah, it was a great week.  Ties my best finish.  Obviously, I would have loved to win after leading coming into today, but, you know, sometimes you run into a guy that makes a lot of putts.  But I didn't play good enough to win today.  I didn't hole any putts.  But I definitely had a lot of confidence now, going for the rest of the year, moving up the FedExCup list quite a ways, I'm sure.   
But all in all, this place is special to me.  I played good here last year.  I think I finished fourth or fifth and second this year.  So a couple of my two best finishes on the PGA TOUR, so I look forward to coming here again.   
 Q.  They're going to change this in the fall next year.  How do you like fall events?  
KELLY KRAFT: As long as it's full FedExCup points, it's going to be -- I think there will be a lot of guys that come and play.  The course will play totally different.  Might play firm and fast like it did the last couple days, so I don't think you'll see as low scores as you did the first two days.  But if it's in the fall, we'll definitely be back.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT