THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 7, 2018
Kelly Kraft
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I know that wasn't the finish you were looking for, but you are tied for the lead going into the final round, looking for that first win on the PGA TOUR.  What's it going to take for you?  
KELLY KRAFT: Yeah, I mean, I'm just going to stay patient tomorrow.  I hit a lot of good shots today.  The greens got really kind of crusty and hard out there, different than the first couple days, and especially on the back nine, there were two or three greens that were just -- they were borderline rolling too fast, so you kind of had to feel it in your feet before you putted and realize that some greens out there were just quicker than others, and I struggled with my speed a little bit.  Obviously I missed a couple short ones that were good putts, I just hit them too hard, because if you get a downhill putt, it could potentially be three or four feet faster than what you're used to.  So hopefully they put a little bit of water on them tonight and so everything gets a little more consistent tomorrow, but other than that, it was a pretty good day.   
 Q.  You mentioned you hit some good shots.  That one at 11, was that the best one, chipping in there for birdie?  
KELLY KRAFT: Yeah, that was good.  That was a bonus for sure.  I drew a good lie over there and ended up just flopping it right in the hole, landed nice and soft for me, so it was good.   
 Q.  How were the conditions out there today?  
KELLY KRAFT: Today was just a little tougher.  The greens got firm, combined with tough pin positions.  It was harder to get the ball close to the hole.   
 Q.  Thoughts on being in the final pairing on Sunday?  
KELLY KRAFT: I'm looking forward to going out in the last group and having some fun.  It will play firm again, so I will get after it with wedges and hit it to more conservative lines when need be.  Hopefully I'll roll in a few long ones.  It will be a fun day.  This is what we play for, to be in contention.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT