NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 16, 2007
Mike O'Koren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Talk about Chris Paul and David Lee. 
 MIKE O'KOREN:  They had, I'm really, really impressed with those two guys that you talked about. 
 I think both of them are future long-term All-Stars and the league ought to be very proud to have those guys there, because they not only can score and push the ball, but they do everything very, very well.  I'm very impressed with both of them. 

 Q.  Coach, how refreshing was it to get to play in front of so many enthusiastic kids.  They seemed like they didn't know the score of the game. 
 MIKE O'KOREN:  It was refreshing, that's a good way to put it.  To have those kids down low, wearing shirts, the NBA and the Rookie/Sophomore Game, and to have them involved the way they were, it's a tremendous thing.  And I hope to see it again, really.  It was, like you say, refreshing.  And kids bring a certain element to a game.  Of course, they want great plays, just like the every day fan does.  But the way they get it and the enthusiasm they showed was nice to be a part of, it really was. 

 Q.  In a lot of respects this game tends to be lopsided in favor of the sophomores.  Talk about your experience to make such a difference in the games. 
 MIKE O'KOREN:  The sophomores understand that there's hype involved in the game, it's an All-Star team, per se.  The best players of their class.  But they understand also that they have to come out and compete.  And you saw it right from the start, we said about David Lee inside, the way Deron Williams pushed the ball, the way Chris came in and defended and pushed the ball, how they had their defensive balance set.  And our guys -- to take nothing away, they're tremendous players with the first year guys, they got caught a little too much in the hype.  And you can only say so much, a Top-50 player or an assistant coach for the Washington Wizards.  They'll learn from this and know what happened to them here today.  And they won't want that to happen them and they'll probably play better and win the game next year. 
  FastScripts by ASAP Sports 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT