U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2013
Peter Horrobin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   Peter Horrobin. 

Q.   How did you enjoy your first round here? 
PETER HORROBIN:   Well, hello Omaha.   You guys showed me so much love.   I appreciate it.   I mean, everybody know my name out here.   I'm so happy.
Today, you know, teed off the 1st hole, it was very‑‑ I was very nervous, and I was, you know, lucky enough to hit it down the fairway and make par. 
Then come No. 2, tears came in my eyes again.   I don't know.   I'm just a crybaby.   I just, you know, it's like a dream.   I still can't believe I'm here playing along the best senior players in the world.   It's a dream come true.   I played 18 holes today, drying my eyes from tears. 
I played pretty solid.   I think I was 2 or 3 under at one time.   I can't remember.   I gave it back.   But my goal was to shoot 70 or better.   So that's the second dream that come true.   I shot 70.

Q.   You can also say you were leading at one point.   You were tied for the lead.   That's got to be pretty cool for you. 
PETER HORROBIN:   Oh, yeah, I think I looked at the leaderboard one time, saw that I was tied for the lead.   I was hoping that it would last longer, but I'm so happy I played well today. 
I made some putts.   I missed some putts.   But it's the U.S. Open.   I've been watching it on TV for years.   So I know that's what to expect.
I missed a couple of fairways, you know, made bogey, made a double.   So everything is what I expected, except for the tears in my eyes.

Q.   Are you glad you had an early tee time? 
PETER HORROBIN:   Yes, and that's why I wore the black pants today because I figured it would be a little chilly for me today.   You know, I'm Jamaican. 
Tomorrow, I got 2:19.   So I got to wear something a little lighter tomorrow.

Q.   You are‑‑ it seems like you're soaking up this experience.   How do you balance that between actually competing tomorrow? 
PETER HORROBIN:   Today, I think, was my toughest day.   I think tomorrow might be a little more easier.   I'm more relaxed.   So tomorrow, you know‑‑ but this is golf.   You know, you never know. 
But I think I might do a little better tomorrow because today was a very tough day, you know, me teeing off in my first time in the U.S. Open.   So it was very tough for me, very nerve‑racking, but I overcame it and I played pretty good.

Q.   You say that your caddie was your friend.   You had him on the bag because he knows you emotionally.   Was he a help today when you had the tears in your eyes? 
PETER HORROBIN:   Yeah, he tried to counsel me and stuff.   But I'm also a Buffalo Soldier, dreadlocks Rasta.   So yeah, you know, he tapped me a couple of times on the shoulder and said, hey, man, you're doing good, man.   Keep it up, man.   Just focus, focus, focus.   And that's what I tried to do.   I tried to focus.

Q.   Peter, I heard there were a few fans yelling Jamaica mine.   Did you hear any encouragement out there?
PETER HORROBIN:   That's what I'm saying.   The City of Omaha grabbed me and welcomed me as an individual, and I'm so happy.   Like I say, everybody knows my name out there.   I feel like I was born right here.

Q.   Peter, have you heard from anybody since you got here, just totally out of the blue, with encouragement, somebody from your past that has followed you since you got here and found out about it just in the last couple days? 
PETER HORROBIN:   No, but I have one of my good friends that played in the European Senior Tour, Delroy Cambridge.   He did real good over there, and he called me, and that was a surprise. 
He called me last night and told me just play one shot at a time and don't try to overdo it.   Play within yourself.   And that's what I tried to do.

Q.   Thank you. 
PETER HORROBIN:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT