AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 17, 1999
Kent Mercker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How would your mental approach differ based on whether it's 2-2 or 3-1?
 
 KENT MERCKER: Well, I think in the back of your mind you know this isn't the
elimination game. And that probably will, you know, whether you want it to or not, have a
little difference. But you really can't worry about that. You know, you just got to pitch.
You got to pitch the way you're capable of pitching, whether you're up 3-0 or down 3-0. 
 
Q. Anything you'd like to improve on after your first two post-season starts?
 
 KENT MERCKER: Yeah, I think I need to get ahead of guys a little better. I was better
in New York, but, you know, this time of year with the hitters you're facing, you can't
afford to be 1-0, 2-1, 2-0, they're a patient ballclub, New York. They're willing to take
a strike. If they're willing to take it, you got to give it to them. I did that better
against New York than I did Cleveland, but still I could do a better job with that. And,
you know, if you can get ahead 0-1 all night, you know, they have to expand the zone a
little bit, you can make some pitches that aren't as good that they have to swing at to
protect the plate. Getting ahead's the key. 
 
Q. What's the difference between pitching at Yankee Stadium as opposed to here at
Fenway Park?
 
 KENT MERCKER: I think home-field advantage is great, but I know I speak for myself, for
whatever reason, when I'm pitching, I don't hear a lot of crowd noise. I don't pay
attention to the stands. So, you know, it's the same distance to the plate here as it is
there. For me, it's not going to be a big difference, you know. Hopefully, for whatever
reason, we're scoring a lot more runs here, though, and it's pumping the offense up maybe
to allow them to score more runs. But for me, it's, yeah, I mean I'm going to hear little
things, people routing for me instead of yelling at me this time. But for the most part,
it's not going to be a big difference for me. 
 
Q. You don't pitch any differently, but the ballpark's different. Do you pitch
differently here than in Yankee Stadium because of the leftfield wall or the physical
differences in the ballpark?
 
 KENT MERCKER: I think you do, yeah. I mean, out of nine guys in their line-up, there
might be two you might pitch a little differently. You know, because of the short wall in
leftfield. It's a big ballpark in rightfield, as everyone knows. And it's not very hard to
just play pepper with that wall in leftfield. So you might get ahead of a guy or fall
behind a guy. Instead of trying to go to Paul O'Neill, you might try to go away in certain
situations. He's strong enough to put the bat on it and hit a double. So, yeah, I mean you
don't worry about it until that situation arises. You definitely have to keep that in the
back of your mind for when a situation might arise that, you know, make them pull the
ball. Make them beat you to the -- I guess here, the big side of the field. 
 
Q. Kent, for the first time in a while the bullpen is pretty well-rested. Does that
take any pressure off you as a starter? Do you feel less pressure that you have to go
deeper into the game?
 
 KENT MERCKER: I don't think about that. I hope I can keep them even more rested, you
know. I want to do that whether they're warn out or whether they need innings. I want to
go as long as I can, as long as I'm effective and get as many outs as I can. As a starter,
that's my job; it's not to win the game, go as far as you can, keep the game close. If you
happen to win, great. But keep it within striking distance, one way or the other. But
knowing they're more rested is good for us because when they're tired, they're good. When
they're not tired, they're real good. So, as long as I can go, the better. That's in any
situation. But, like I said, I don't approach it as I want to go six innings or five or
seven or nine or eight, I want to go one at a time. The hitter that's up there, try to get
him out and then go to the next guy. And it's easier to pitch and stay focused when you
think in those terms. 
 
Q. Can you compare what it's been like at Fenway Park the last two or three games in
the post-season compared to other cities you've pitched in in the post-season?
 
 KENT MERCKER: You know, I went an inning and two-thirds against Cleveland here and
that's probably the most fun I ever had on a baseball field. Fortunately, we won the game.
But the fans here are unbelievable. I walked out to warm up and they went crazy for me. I
hadn't even done well yet. So, you know, they love their Red Sox. And I think more than
any other city, they're for their team. And that's not to say the other cities aren't, but
I just notice it more here since I've been here. I mean Atlanta was great, but they get
some empty seats in Atlanta this time of year. It's not the same. But this place is -- I
can't think of a park I'd least like to come in to if I was a visiting club than Fenway
Park. 
 
Q. Sort of continuing that, what did it mean to you to get back in to a situation where
you were going to go to post-season this year, to get to the Red Sox?
 
 KENT MERCKER: I was -- that was one of the best days of my life when I found out I got
traded here. They were in the pennant race. Going from fourth place -- nothing against St.
Louis -- going from fourth place to first place, as a player, that's what you look forward
to. And I think I was spoiled younger being in Atlanta and, for whatever reason, we went
every year. And you kind of expected to go. Then when you get away from that for two or
three years, you miss it. And, so the thought of me having a chance to do that again and
pitching in games like that and talking on the podium like this, it's great. 
 
Q. How much of an advantage do you think your personal post-season experience is? Does
it come into play here?
 
 KENT MERCKER: If it is an advantage, I don't think I've tapped into it yet. But, I
mean, there is -- it's a -- I think it's a state of mind more than it is anything else.
You know you've been to these games. You felt the atmosphere, and believe me, when you --
at this time of year it's cooler. You hear a buzz in the air, at least I do. More so than
during the regular season. And I think if you -- by being in that situation, the four or
five years I was, as excited as you get, it calms you down. So now when you're in the
situations, it's not like, you know, the first time you've been there. You've done it
before and you know how to deal with it. You know how -- it doesn't always look like that
when you're playing, but, I mean it was invaluable for me, I think. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT