AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 12, 1999
Kent Mercker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Do you have any sense or can you give us what your sense is of the New York/Boston
or Yankee/Red Sox rivalry; if it is meaningful at all?
 
 KENT MERCKER: I think it is very meaningful. Growing up a baseball fan, being mostly a
National Leaguer though, I haven't experienced it other than these games, but I read
books. I have watched sports shows. I know what the rivalry is about. Really at this point
in the year, anyone who is playing is a rivalry. I think it is going to be exciting. 
 
Q. Did you have a sense when you looked at the lay of the land that starting tomorrow
(inaudible)
 
 KENT MERCKER: I thought based on Ramon threw more pitches than I did, I think keeping
him on his regular days rest is going to make him that much more better. Pedro obviously
can't pitch tomorrow. He probably wants to, but can't. Saberhagen started yesterday, so I
guess I was getting to start by default, if you will. I am looking forward to it. I don't
think Jimy is doing it just out of necessity; that there is no one else that can pitch. I
think he has got confidence in me, but I am going to take advantage of it. This is a
chance that not many people get and I am looking forward to it. 
 
Q. Did your ribs bother you Saturday? Did they have any affect on your performance
Saturday?
 
 KENT MERCKER: No. They didn't bother me, that was my problem. I felt I had 13 days off
and probably sounds funny but I felt too good out there. You put all things together, the
rest, the not feeling pain, the adrenaline, the situation, and I was just out there trying
to throw as hard as Pedro can and, you know, fell behind hitters and didn't pitch the way
I am capable of pitching. Now I think two days' rest is going to be good for me because I
am not going to feel like superman. I will be able to stay within myself and make better
pitches. 
 
Q. How important do you feel the pressure is on yourself to get a quality start based
on your stretched out bull pen?
 
 KENT MERCKER: Jimy called me and told me I was starting. He said: Don't tell yourself
you got to go 6, 7, 8, whatever. He goes get one hitter out at a time and the way this
team is made up, the character of this team is that one guy goes as long and hard as he
can. We got guys that are going to pick you up. I know my start we won by 17 runs and I
didn't go 5 innings. The bullpen picked us up. And Saberhagen had a rough day yesterday
and the offense picked us up and then we won those games. We have got a lot of fight and a
lot of heart. If I can go out there and hopefully set the tone early, get some outs and
just go as long as I can, try to put as many zeros up there as I can. I am not going to
tell myself I want to go six innings and give up no runs. I am just going to go out there;
get the next guy out at the plate and give it your best. 
 
Q. Were you afraid after Sunday's start that you wouldn't get another chance?
 
 KENT MERCKER: As far as losing? 
 
Q. Well, just that you didn't pitch well -- no, that you wouldn't get another chance to
start even if you advanced?
 
 KENT MERCKER: No, I don't think about that. I don't worry about that. I told myself a
long time ago not to worry about things I can't control. Like I said, I feel fortunate and
I am ready to start tomorrow and want to take advantage of it. 
 
Q. Do you have a sense of what the crowd or how the atmosphere might be like as you
take the mound? 
 
 KENT MERCKER: Probably be loud and I am sure I will be called a few names. But I mean,
it is going to be exciting. This is why you play baseball. The last three games to be down
2-0 against Cleveland and to come back the way we did when I think 30 guys in the whole
world thought we were going to do that, it is just exciting. Hopefully the momentum we got
from beating them the last three games carries over into this series. I mean, if you don't
like playing in front of a lot of people, you probably won't be here. Even on the road, I
mean, the more the people, the better. 
 
Q. You have been with this steam a relatively short time this season. Can you talk
about what your stint here has been like for you and how much a part of the team you feel?
 
 KENT MERCKER: I feel great. I feel a part of it. Baseball is a fraternity. I have been
here a short time but they welcome me. I have pitched decent for them down the stretch -
not going to say they needed me to win those games - they were in a good position when I
got here, but I definitely feel a part of it. The last five games just pulling for each
other and patting each other on the back and being there for each other, you feel real
close to them. That is one of the, I guess, intangibles a good team has. Everyone feels
close and plays together. Everyone is pushing for the next guy. That is what we have, 25
guys that leave it all out on the field and play hard. I mean, being the underdog is not
necessarily a bad situation for us. 
 
Q. Before the Mets/Arizona series, Showalter said the Mets were a dangerous team. They
had almost nothing to lose. He said they were like playing a house of money. Does that
make you a dangerous team because you are loose and didn't expect to be here?
 
 KENT MERCKER: I think going back to being the underdog, I mean, when the world expects
you to lose, and you lose, I mean, it is what everyone expected. I think it is a source of
motivation to try to prove everybody wrong and I mean, it is obvious we are an underdog.
We were an underdog against Cleveland but as long as 25 guys and 5 coaches in that
clubhouse don't believe that, there is no situation, you are down five runs early, you
know, everyone thinks we are supposed to be down five runs, so what do we got to lose.
Let's go play hard, see what happens and that attitude, I mean, you look at our rosters
and we got two All Stars on our team and the Yankees probably have ten. But that doesn't
mean anything when you get between the lines. We beat Cleveland; probably guys in their
clubhouse are surprised -- walking Nomar twice and a guy behind him hits two home runs,
they didn't expect that, obviously, or they would have pitched to Nomar. John Valentin in
the game before drives in some runs. They didn't expect that. Daubach hits a three-run
homer. They didn't expect that. I guess we have no weapons but nine guys that can beat you
if given the chance and everyone wants to take advantage of it. Everyone wants to be a
hero and it is a good thing to have. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT