MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 13, 1999
Larry Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How was he throwing, compared to what you knew in the past, Larry?

LARRY WALKER: That's Pedro Martinez, he's right now probably the top pitcher in the
game and will be for a while. He's dominating with all the pitches, and he throws them all
for strikes. I was nervous, never mind stepping in against him.

Q. How do you know Pedro?

LARRY WALKER: Pedro and I were teammates in Montreal. You can almost get to know him by
watching him on TV. You can notice he's a funny, loveable guy, and you can't help but like
him.

Q. Can you talk about the stuff that Pedro had out there, people he struck out?

LARRY WALKER: Well, I only saw a couple of pitches, so it didn't take long for him to
get rid of me. He was putting everybody away with the fastball. He was throwing the ball
very hard, and throwing it very well.

Q. Can you talk about what made you nervous?

LARRY WALKER: I was fortunate to walk in here and heard Pedro talk about the airplanes
going over, I almost fell to the ground, they scared the daylights out of me. This is
Fenway Park, and this is the only chance I'll play here. I hope the ground crew doesn't
get too mad, because I tore this piece of grass out of rightfield. I'm taking it home, and
I'm going to have it forever. And say I played here and I'll have it forever.

Q. Larry, could you talk about what happened before the game when Ted was driven up to
the mound and everybody just congregated, to have that amount of talent around, and to be
around that man?

LARRY WALKER: It was rather emotional. I'm a rather emotional guy, and when I got up
there tears were coming out of Ted's eyes, I kind of turned away, it almost brought tears
to my eyes. The greatest player in the world, is surrounded by more great players. It was
outstanding to see it. I know Ted was extremely touched by it. It was an honor to stand
out there on the field with him and all the greats standing around him, right there makes
me nervous. That's more of why I was nervous earlier, just the people that were in the
stadium today.

Q. What pitch were you looking for when Pedro struck you out?

LARRY WALKER: I was just looking to see it, I didn't see the ball when it went by me. I
don't know, he threw a change-up first pitch, maybe I was waiting for that. I don't think
I felt my fingers or my arms when I was up there hitting first. When I was warming up
before the game, I wasn't aware where it was going, I had no feeling, I was in awe,
looking at the sign that said Fenway Park, and the big wall in leftfield. I struck out at
Fenway Park, and I'm pretty proud of it.

Q. Larry, over the last month or so, we've heard so much about you, some of your peers,
some saying you belong in a league of your own, that your abilities have grown to that
extent in National League and all of baseball, how do you react to that talk from your
peers?

LARRY WALKER: You know, I don't know. I've heard talk of it lately, and I want to win a
championship, so I go out there like everybody else, try to play the game hard, and try to
do whatever I can to let the team win. All the talk is appreciated, but I don't put myself
up at that level, I'm quite humble and I'll stay that way. Curt doesn't think that much of
me, anyway.
CURT SCHILLING: So much so he had to sign the jersey himself.
LARRY WALKER: But I got my grass.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT