NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SABRES v HURRICANES
May 23, 2006
Rod Brind'Amour
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What does Cory Stillman bring to your group?   
 ROD BRIND'AMOUR:  He's a quiet guy, but what he does is, you watch him all year, he's made the players that he plays with better.  He's just one of those veteran players that doesn't make mistakes and comes up with huge plays.  He's done it all year, done it in the playoffs and done it his whole career, quietly.  Strong, doesn't get a lot of attention.   
 One of the best players that I have seen in the playoffs.   
  Q.  The Sabres admitted that they were frustrated by you guys.  Not many teams have been able to do that against them this post-season.  You have certainly gotten their attention.   
 ROD BRIND'AMOUR:  I think to be honest, they probably say they were pretty happy they got a win.  They went into that game with probably less urgency than we did, and that's because they had one in the bank.   
 You've got two evenly matched teams, and we frustrated them and they got to us in Game 1.  So it is going to be that way.  It's going to be like a boxing match, back and forth.   
  Q.  How important was it for you guys to gain the confidence in your team and the game that you played?   
 ROD BRIND'AMOUR:  We had confidence after Game 1.  We didn't not have confidence.  It's more just the situation, you are down one, you are not out of it if you lose the first two.  Playing against Buffalo that means you have got to win.  It's a tough task the rest of the way in that case.   
 I think we'll just have a little bit more urgency due to the circumstance.   
  Q.  This crowd is going to be loud.  Do you think it is going to be similar to Montreal?  You fed off the energy in Montreal.   
 ROD BRIND'AMOUR:  This time of year you want that.  Obviously you almost get a little numb to it.  You expect it.  We expect it to be that way.  You want it to be that way.  That's what you play for.  It's exciting moments.  You want it to be, whether it's at your rink or the other rink.  That's kind of what it's all about.   
 I think playing in Montreal in round one, I think it's great that we have had that experience and it's going to help us.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT