NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: OILERS v HURRICANES
June 10, 2006
Rod Brind'Amour
Cam Ward
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. (Inaudible). 
 CAM WARD:  It is but I have been saying all along that I am trying to treat it like any other road game even though you are in your hometown.  Just trying to keep the focus. 

 Q.  Did you feel any additional nerves being in here today? 
 CAM WARD:  No, I was excited.  I was thrilled to get the opportunity to play in the Stanley Cup Finals in your hometown, and I felt comfortable for the most part. 

 Q.  That first goal -- 
 CAM WARD:  I saw it, they went D to D and they took the shot and was going to the left post, kicked off my leg and as soon as I did that Hork made the tip.  Made a great tip. 

 Q.  You guys have rebounded all year. 
 CAM WARD:  That's what we're going to have to do.  Would have been nice to get a win here tonight, but it's over and done with.  We're going to learn from it and get ready for Game 4. 

 Q.  Talk about that goal when it happened. 
 CAM WARD:  They made the initial shot and I made the initial save and what happened, the rebound popped out, Smyth was driving to the net, looked like it got caught up in his body and he just kept driving to the goal line and you know, it was too late to -- unfortunately didn't have much space to move. 

 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 CAM WARD:  It's not for me to decide.  That's why there's replay, that's why they do that sort of stuff.  Just hope they made the right call. 

 Q.  What were you thinking through that?  They go to video, do you think that's not a goal or I am not sure -- 
 CAM WARD:  It was one of those things that it could have gone either way. 
 We saw in Montreal kind of the same kind of deal with Roddy, you know, I didn't know, I don't know, that's why those guys are there to make those decisions.  It is unfortunate it ended that way. 

 Q.  Overall what did you think of your play?  I think you might have played your best game. 
 CAM WARD:  I felt great.  Everybody else is kind of blowing it up to be something huge coming into your hometown, I tried to just treat it like any other road game, and I felt really comfortable out there.  Disappointed the way it ended and we'll do the best that we can to prepare for Game 4. 

 Q.  They score the early goal on you.  What was the atmosphere like?  Did it come into play at all? 
 CAM WARD:  That's how you respond to those situations.  I thought we responded well.  I didn't let it affect me.  But it was tough, getting down that early, big part of our game plan was to come off this with a strong start.  It wasn't easy playing from behind that quick. 

 Q.  Do you feel like you were targeted tonight? 
 ROD BRIND'AMOUR:  No. 

 Q.  What was the biggest difference between Game 2 and 3? 
 ROD BRIND'AMOUR:  Our power play.  Our power play wasn't good at all.  Horrible.  That was the difference. 

 Q.  When you scored did you get the sense things were going the way they had been going perhaps that changed the momentum in the third? 
 ROD BRIND'AMOUR:  I thought we got to our game finally and started to get going, but you know, we waited a little too long.  Like I said, the momentum killed a lot of penalties, it's not how we need to play. 

 Q.  Your objections on their second goal, obviously you felt Cam was interfered with? 
 ROD BRIND'AMOUR:  Well, yeah, it's not so much the interference, it's the explanation that's what gets me.  He said it hit him outside the crease and it went in.  Well, that's not what happened, so that's what is frustrating.  That's what bothers me.  It's not that he says this is -- you know, this is what -- he says this is what happened.  It hit him outside the crease, and it went in.  That's his explanation, which that's what frustrates me.  It's not how it goes down, it's a crock, it's not what happened.  And you are standing right there, that's what frustrates me.  It's not the end result, whatever, you know, this is the National Hockey League, what do you expect. 

 Q.  Talk about Cam's play. 
 ROD BRIND'AMOUR:  He's great.  Kept us in there, can't say enough about him.  He's just been stellar back there. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT