STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 25, 2017
Bryce Love
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Stanford - 38, Notre Dame - 20
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. On the linebacker, the catch and release on that 30-yard play, do you remember the play?
BRYCE LOVE: Yeah, yeah.  It's just a field type thing.  Just trying to break the tackle, trying to come out of it.
Q. Were you paying attention to the game in Seattle?  Getting updates?
BRYCE LOVE: No, I really had no idea.  The ESPN team told me after the game.
Q. You didn't know what was going on in Seattle till after?
BRYCE LOVE: No, no idea.
Q. Were you curious?
BRYCE LOVE: I was a little bit.
Q. (No microphone.)
BRYCE LOVE: I feel like it will be good.  It's kind of the same thing before the Washington game, having that short week coming into it.  Just trusting the training staff, trusting the rehab, going to it from there.
Q. Talk about the way K.J. played.  How has he developed over the last few weeks?
BRYCE LOVE: Amazing, amazing.  Just to see a young guy going out and doing things like that, it's definitely not easy.  He makes it look easy.  But the amount of things that is put on his shoulders week in, week out, how he takes control of the huddle, how he gets to the right calls and executes.  On his reads, it's amazing.  He's handling the ball well.  We definitely need that on offense.
Q. How is your ankle?
BRYCE LOVE: I feel good.  I'm just excited to get out and go out and compete.
Q. (Question about game in Seattle.)
BRYCE LOVE: I heard about it after the game, but not during the game.  We had no way of knowing.
Q. (No microphone.)
BRYCE LOVE: I feel like our mindset, we always focus so hard in the off-season.  It's a testament to Coach Toure and the boys, just finishing, executing, focusing on the task at hand, reacting to everything that's happened through the season.  It's a long season.
What you're alluding to, we started off the season 1-2, backs against the wall.  Just a testament to the team that we have.  We're resilient.  We fought back.  We've come a long way.  We still have more to prove.
Q. (Question about the upcoming USC game.)
BRYCE LOVE: I mean, we're definitely excited to get an opportunity to play in the game.  We had a lot of mistakes out there.  They played amazing when we were down there.  We're excited to compete against a good team.  It will be a good one.
Q. How big of a cherry has it been that USC clinched their end?
BRYCE LOVE: That's always the goal, to get to the Pac-12 championship and ultimately win.  We knew back then they were an amazing team.  We had no idea how the season would end up.  We're excited for the opportunity.  Really looking forward to it, can't wait for it.
Q. 125 yards.
BRYCE LOVE: It was tough.  I feel like it's just part of the Stanford brand of football, though.  We enjoy those gritty games where you have to fight for yard after yard.  That's kind of what it was the first two quarters.  The throwing game started to open up, passing game went really well.  Just started taking advantage of that.
Q. Shout out to your offensive line.
BRYCE LOVE: Oh, absolutely.  I say it all the time, I'm just ending up running, but they're opening up everything for me.  The boys up front, they're everything that I am.  I'm obviously thankful and appreciate it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT