STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 10, 2017
Bryce Love
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Stanford - 30, Washington - 22
Q. How do you feel?
BRYCE LOVE: I feel good.  We got a good win today against a good team and excited about it.
Q. When you seemed to tweak the same ankle and what was it second quarter it looked like you were really hobbling coming off.  What happened and how were you able to come back?
BRYCE LOVE: No, just a twist, that's just how it goes, it's just how the game goes.  At the end of the day it's a testament to the training staff and stuff like that being able to bounce back and understanding your body and trusting it and just being able to come back from it.
Q. (No microphone.)
BRYCE LOVE: No, none.
Q. Coach said you haven't had a full practice in over a month since the Oregon game.  Is that correct?
BRYCE LOVE: That is true.  It's true.
Q. So does show the value of practice here or?
BRYCE LOVE: Oh, for sure.  For sure.  There's definitely a lot of practice reps that I should have been out there for sure and some rushes the first few plays.  But once you get into it I've been playing with those guys for it feels like for years now, but just getting in that groove and just playing well off of it.
Q. K.J. Costello had some very accurate passes practically all night.  What would you say about his play in this game?
BRYCE LOVE: Amazing.  Just to have a young guy like that step in like that and you obviously see the tall he went and you've seen it for well for me just seeing it throughout spring camp seeing it throughout training camp and finally just seeing it on display out here and tonight it was a big step for him and he played amazing.
Q. Coach said he's an eternal optimist.  What did the team feel coming into this game?  Did you think you were going to win this game?
BRYCE LOVE: Absolutely.  As a team we never go out to play and to lose.  We just have that competitive nature and we feel like if anybody, if we go out to anybody or anybody comes to us, we're definitely going to give it our all and we're going to get their best effort as well.
Q. Not coming off two of the two of the team's better games.  Did you feel like you could put it all together?
BRYCE LOVE: We knew we had to bounce back and in those two games we knew we left a lot on the table.  Again it's just a testament to the coaching staff, a testament to the players on the team, and we were just ready to go out and compete.
Q. Talk about going up against that defense?
BRYCE LOVE: It speaks volumes of, volumes, volumes, whatever, just like you said, they are the top-ranked defense in the country and you see it.  Their front seven is elite.  Linebackers are fast.  D-line is insane.  Big and athletic secondary, not afraid to come up and tackle.  You definitely see it all, you saw it all game.  We definitely took that in stride and we wanted to match that physicality and we ended up coming out with the W.
Q. (No microphone.)
BRYCE LOVE: I mean, I definitely felt like I was getting in more of a groove throughout.  Just seeing things better, feeling a little bit better and just knowing things will open up.
Q. (No microphone.)
BRYCE LOVE: I would say all of it.  They were grinding for four quarters for sure.  They were opening things up for me and they made my job a lot easier.
Q. (No microphone.)
BRYCE LOVE: It's amazing.  We definitely wanted to come out and get a W, but at the same time we know that we still have another conference game and we have a great team coming after that in Notre Dame and we're looking forward to going out and competing against them as well.
Q. (No microphone.)
BRYCE LOVE: It's the first time.  It's just dealing with the ankle injury.  Tape gets loose and you have to re-tape it and that's just a part of it.  Part of the game.
Q. Do they ask you, hey, can you go or how do you feel or what?
BRYCE LOVE: Well, I have that Coach Turley gives us the Vince Lombardi quote in the off-season that if you can walk you can run and obviously that's extreme, but in my mind I never question that I would be able to go out there and compete and I was ready whenever my number was called.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT