STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 30, 2017
Bryce Love
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Stanford - 34, Arizona State - 24   
 Q.  The speed, what explains the unbelievable desire not to go down?  Where did that come from?  
BRYCE LOVE: Probably just from years of coaching.  Gotta give credit to my parents.  Stuff like that.  Just thinking about who you're really running for and what motivates you and knowing that your team's really entrusting you to make a play or just be efficient on that play really is a testament to just the desire, I would say.   
 Q.  When you saw Christian McCaffrey set the school record of 284 last year, did you ever anticipate that it would only take you five games into this season to beat it?  
BRYCE LOVE: No.  No.  I was always in awe by a lot of things that he was doing.  And that was just another thing that was amazing to me, seeing that Cal game and how he was running and stuff.  Definitely motivates you and just stuff like that.   
 Q.  Watching the ASU defense on film, what did you see from them that you thought you could exploit?  
BRYCE LOVE: Exploit?  You know, I would take it a step back, just it's a testament to their defense.  They have a lot of talent over there.   
Especially their linebackers, they do a really good job of reading and coming down.  And they gave us some problems in the game with their slant, the game's like that.   
And, again, it's a testament to Coach Bloom, Coach Shaw, seeing different things to exploit.  Maybe going against the slant or something like that.  Just game plan, specific plans, and yeah.   
 Q.  Can you wrap your head around (indiscernible)?  
BRYCE LOVE: No, no, it hasn't really hit me.  Just, like I said, on the field, it's more so just a testament to my teammates.  And the grind, the competing against the defense and trying to -- the running behind the O line, they're the ones opening things up for me.   
The wide receivers blocking downfield, they're the ones blocking downfield, and helping me get open, too.  It's just a testament to those guys.   
 Q.  Have you ever run for that many yards at any level?  
BRYCE LOVE: Not that I can remember.  Maybe flag football back in the day.  Yeah, definitely.   
 Q.  (Question off microphone).  How much do you relish those type of runs?  I know you want the big yardage, but those grinding type of runs, how do you --  
BRYCE LOVE: Yeah, yeah, again, that's one of the big things I try to work on, is try to be physical between tackles and make sure that every run I have is efficient.   
That's one thing I've been working with Coach G, and Coach Taylor back in the day, was knowing that every run isn't going to be a big run, and knowing that you have to be patient and taking what the defense gives you and things like that.   
 Q.  Do you see it as part of your game that gets overlooked because, again, everyone sees 50-yarders, 60-yarders, those plays, those don't show on TV, is that part of your game?  
BRYCE LOVE: Yeah, I mean, definitely.  Definitely.  I'm definitely not the biggest guy out there, for sure.  And it's easy to overlook, I feel like.  But I take pride in being able to go out there and make those type of plays and being able to pick up the yards.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
BRYCE LOVE: Dang, ooh, I'd probably say the most recent one, like you said, in the fourth quarter, trying to keep that drive going and keeping that clock moving, trying to put ASU in a tough place.   
 Q.  Was it a conscious effort by you to stay inbounds on that one long run, where they got you -- looked like you were fighting really to keep the clock running.  
BRYCE LOVE: Yeah, that was -- I felt like I heard somebody on the sideline telling me to stay inbounds.  So I was just trying to do that.   
 Q.  Did you hear the PA guy announce that you had broken the record, and did you know that at the time you still had not broken the record?  
BRYCE LOVE: (Buffering).  ASU had the ball -- yeah, we had the ball and we were driving.   
 Q.  It was like three plays before you actually got --  
BRYCE LOVE: I was definitely just focused on that more than anything.   
 Q.  You were very optimistic?  
BRYCE LOVE: Yeah, exactly.   
 Q.  What kind of offense -- the team is fully behind you (indiscernible).  
BRYCE LOVE: That's what it's about.  Football is a team sport.  And the offense moves collectively, as a unit.   
Ultimately, I'm just doing my 1-11th and the guys up front are doing their 1-11th, K.J., Keller, they're doing their 1-11th, the receivers are doing their jobs as well.  And it all comes together at the end of the day, and it just works out.   
 Q.  When you busted that first one, did you have a feeling like this could be a big day?  
BRYCE LOVE: Just focused on the next play, to be honest with you.   
 Q.  (Question about the Heisman).  
BRYCE LOVE: I'm not even really worried about any of the individual stuff like that.  I'm just big on team wins and trying to be the best I can be week in, week out.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) do you sometimes look at the big screen, see what's going on behind you?  
BRYCE LOVE: Not really.  A lot of times if I'm looking at the big screen, it's probably because maybe I might have -- I thought I might have made like a bad read or I was trying to maybe see if I missed something or something like that.  But nothing --   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
BRYCE LOVE: I just try to focus on the end zone.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT