STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 23, 2017
Bryce Love
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








UCLA - 34, Stanford - 58
Q. Did you think that Costello gave you a big lift when he came in?  How did he change things?
BRYCE LOVE: Well, it's just, he kind of, I kind of said the same thing after the game as well, but the big thing was he just came in and brought so much energy, to be honest with you.  His confidence really exuded through the huddle.  He was making all the right reads, making plays, and we saw that and we fed off that, he did an amazing job for sure.
Q. I ask you this every time, but I'll ask you what was going through your mind on that long run.  You made two cuts and you're gone.  I'm sure there was a lot more to it, a lot of great blocking, but what was going through your head?
BRYCE LOVE: Just run, to be honest with you.  Just react to things like that.  Coach G's big thing is not to over think anything, just take what you see and like you said, the boys up front opened up the lane for me, wide receivers were blocking down field, and I just took what I saw.
Q. You've had obviously a big year all year but when Keller goes down did you feel you needed to have added emphasis to kind of carry the load a little bit more?
BRYCE LOVE: No, no, we all take that pressure on us to do our 1/11th.  That's one of the big mantras for our offense is executing your assignment.  So everybody took it upon their shoulders when Keller went down to step up and make plays and I feel like we did a good job of it.
Q. Were you aware of your numbers?
BRYCE LOVE: No, I was not.  I was not.
Q. Because you came within 20 some yards of the record.  Curious your thoughts you were here last year and Christian got that.  Did you think at the time, nobody's going to come close to that?
BRYCE LOVE: No, no, the big thing with it is, Christian had the same thing, just always believing.  Have that belief.  Like why not go into a game -- I'm not big with numbers and stuff like that -- but why not come in and have however many yards however many yards.  The big thing with me and him was just we always wanted to win.  So albeit have 60 yards on the ground, but come out with the win or 300 yards and come out with a win, we're happy either way.
Q. That being said, how much did you guys need a game like this, not just a win but to punch them in the mouth a little bit.
BRYCE LOVE: Yeah, yeah, I mean, we were playing, we knew we had a challenge coming into the week against a good team and Coach Shaw challenged us early in the week after watching the San Diego State film, our big emphasis is we were so close and we had so many opportunities we didn't take advantage of, so we really put emphasis on that throughout practice and focusing on the little things and stuff like that, so it was good to come out here and be able to see the fruits of our labor.  We still have so much more to improve on and it's still a long season so we're still trying to build off of it.
Q. You rack up these huge yards every game.  You don't feel any kind of pressure?
BRYCE LOVE: No, no.  Honestly, it's weird for me that I end up getting a lot of the notice for it, because at the end of the day I'm just running.  A lot of plays like last week.
Q. Not everybody runs like you.
BRYCE LOVE: Last week you had Walker Little, the whole O line making amazing blocks and I'm just running untouched down the sideline and stuff like that.
Q. (No microphone.)
BRYCE LOVE: I tried to take pride in seeing things kind of before it happens.  Being able to read blocks and taking it to that second level of seeing blocks that haven't even really happened yet, trying to set things up and stuff like that is big with me and yeah, yeah, I'm just taking what's there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT