STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 21, 2015
Bryce Love
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
California - 22  Stanford - 35   
 Q.  How was it playing out there tonight?  How much different is it playing in the big game versus the other games?  
BRYCE LOVE: You can definitely tell the change in atmosphere.  It's really just exciting.  You can tell it's a rivalry.  It was just basically everything I thought it would be for sure.   
 Q.  Now, you have all the seniors have never lost the Axe.  So what did it mean for you to be able to play for them and to try to win this game?  
BRYCE LOVE: Definitely it means the world.  They definitely stressed throughout the week.  It's definitely just go out and play our game and play to the best of our abilities and really just try to keep the Axe home, for sure.   
 Q.  Well you got a touchdown in this game.  Huge, huge game.  So just talk to me about that play.  
BRYCE LOVE: Well, we had been running the one of our plays where I was in the slot for awhile, just to set it up.  And then just came to it and it was just open.  I just hit the hole and ran.   
 Q.  How are you guys going to prepare for Notre Dame next week?  
BRYCE LOVE: Just really sit down and look at the film.  We're going up against a really good team.  Look at the film, go through practice, pay attention in reps.  Just learn what we can and prepare to the best of our abilities.   
 Q.  It looked like they were loading up on McCaffrey out there.  He had four straight runs and then they break you.  Take us through that play, what happened?  
BRYCE LOVE: We had been setting them up with run plays with Christian.  And then I went out to the slot and running in the same plays with me out there, just to set it up.  And then finally, I came in there and got the reverse called and I just ran in.  It was open.  I had good lead blocks, Kyle and JG set it up real well.   
 Q.  True freshman and you're a PAC-12 North champ.  How does that feel?  
BRYCE LOVE: Definitely a blessing to be here.   
 Q.  Beginning of the year, you lost, you guys lost to Northwestern, but here you are.  Does that show you one game doesn't make a season.  You got to keep on pushing every week?  
BRYCE LOVE: Definitely.  We definitely took the loss versus Northwestern, we sat down, looked at the film, we learned from it, and we just wanted to come back and week by week just try to get better and better.   
 Q.  When do you think the spirit of the rivalry really hit you?  Was it leading up to the game or was it something about actually playing?  
BRYCE LOVE: I would say, definitely, a little bit of both.  Prior to the game, you definitely see all the tweets.  You see the upperclassmen, everybody talking about the big game.  Even the title of the game is "The Big Game."   
You hear the ringing in the white closet every hour on the hour.  And you come out here and play and you see the student section excited.  You see the alumni excited.  You see Kyle over there excited as well.  So it's definitely a little bit of both, I would say.   
 Q.  Have to ask you about your 40 time, most recent 40 time was?  
BRYCE LOVE: Most recent.   
 Q.  Did you guys do one before the season?  
BRYCE LOVE: No, they -- we usually do it in the spring and I wasn't able to do that.  I would say high 4.3s in there.  4.3, low.   
 Q.  Do you feel on that touchdown, that was kind of like a 40-yard dash once you hit the sideline, right?  
BRYCE LOVE: Yeah, just hit the hole.  It was right there and it was open.  So I just wanted to take advantage of it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT