OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 29, 2015
Seve Benson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SEVE BENSON:   Drove it fantastic today.   That was the key, really.   Set me up in good positions on the fairway to hit close approaches.   Still hit the odd bad shot but for the most part it was really good.  
   
 Q.   Sounds like you got it going right from the offset.     
SEVE BENSON:   Well, I bogeyed the first actually.   But then I went birdie, birdie, birdie, then gradually built on it, stayed patient.   
   
 Q.   Put it into context; how well have you been playing?   
SEVE BENSON:   I've been playing really well.   I was a little bit rusty coming back after the Christmas period.   But I've just sort of built on my good work that I did over the winter and got back into the competitive spirit.   Yeah, my game's good.   Feels good.   
   
 Q.   Lots of hours on the range?   
SEVE BENSON:   Too much work.   I'm a sucker for having time off and coming back tired, if that makes sense.   I've been working on sort of the same things, but just making them better and better and better really.   No magic move, just reiterating what I've been doing.  
   
 Q.   There's been a nice progression and great consistency in your game.   
SEVE BENSON:   Yeah, I think it's just maturing as a person, as well as working hard and improving my game.   The two sort of go hand in hand.   
   
 Q.   You talk about maturing; always associate you with the victory in Qatar, years and years ago now.   Is there something just about this part of the world?   
SEVE BENSON:   I do love coming to these events.   They are great events, great courses, great fields.   They are just three good, fun events to play really, and Qatar, obviously I have a bit of history there.   I do prefer playing that one a little bit more.   All three are just great events really.   
   
 Q.   That victory must feel ages ago now.   
SEVE BENSON:   Yeah, I can't even actually remember what age I was.   It's got some good memories.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT