COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
February 3, 2011
Seve Benson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Satisfied with a round like that in these conditions?
 SEVE BENSON: Definitely. I think I would take that round any day of the year really. I played solid today, pretty happy with the way I kept my patience, as well, because I had a couple of 3-putts. I'm very satisfied.

 Q. Struck it well, controlled it nicely in the gales?
 SEVE BENSON: I could have got a few more pin-high, but apart from that, no, very satisfied.

 Q. The 18th was tidy. 
 SEVE BENSON: Yeah, great second shot in there and hit it to 15 feet. I thought, I haven't had an eagle for a while, and went in. 

 Q. When was the last one?
 SEVE BENSON: I can't remember. A year ago probably, in tournament golf, European Tour. 

 Q. What's your situation? You're playing on medical extension? 
 SEVE BENSON: Yeah, I only played seven events last year because of a back injury. Starting again this year. 

 Q. What did you do? What was the back injury?
 SEVE BENSON: I don't know what caused it. Just got a slipped disk in my back, my low back. I had an injection, started going to a chiropractor and stuff. But can't really put my finger on why it happened. Just gradually got worse. Started in Dubai last year and just got worse and worse and worse. 
 Maybe a combination of travelling on the planes and sleeping in different beds every week and hitting the golf ball. 

 Q. Is it sorted? Can you say that it's corrected itself?
 SEVE BENSON: It still hurts if I sit down for a while, but in terms of practising, it's a hundred per cent. That's what it matters, really. I think I can take the achiness when I'm sitting down.

 Q. With the extension, does that mean you have a limited number of events to earn X amount of money? 
 SEVE BENSON: No, I only played a few events. 
 Obviously you can't help what happens to your body injury-wise, but I'm glad I made the right decision to take the year off. 

 Q. This tournament, it was five, six years ago, you were in here as an amateur. 
 SEVE BENSON: I know this course really well. Brings back a few memories, actually. 

 Q. Did you play well?
 SEVE BENSON: I did. I played good. I definitely come back and enjoy it every time. I like it. 
 It's probably the tougher out of the three courses -- I don't know what Bahrain is like, but especially Abu Dhabi and Dubai, it's a tougher course. But it's just a great tournament and I just love coming back here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT