WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 4, 2010
Pablo Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  First Round 68 (-4)

 PABLO MARTIN: Very good start to the tournament. Pretty happy with the round, pretty solid. I missed a little one out there, a little putt on one hole, but then made a good one in the next par 5, and pretty solid. I mean, I think I deserved it today, the score. 

 Q. What you expected? 
 PABLO MARTIN: Well, I don't know what to expect. I don't normally play with players of this quality. I don't know, just trying to shoot a decent score to start off and see what happens next.

 Q. Well, you have played with the majority that's out here, but I guess they have not all been in such a tight, elite field as this.
 PABLO MARTIN: Yeah, but not that often. If you look at my World Rankings, I'm something like 300, and these guys are really good. 
 So, yeah, enjoying the week. Hopefully I can do something decent. 

 Q. With your win so early in the season, this is something that's always been on the horizon and looking forward to it, or you've just forgotten about it a bit until it happens upon you? 
 PABLO MARTIN: Yeah, it's nice just to make a cut on Thursday, then you don't have to worry about the cut. Kind of nice, you're going to get a decent cheque if you play decent. It's a really cool tournament for a guy in my position where you're not really into in The Race to Dubai and it's not like I'm making millions out there. 
 Yeah, it's good, really good to be here. Good course, too, and good field, so hopefully it goes well. 

 Q. You tend to put a smile out on the course and you certainly have one now, but I think back to when we spoke in Portugal, that must have taken a little bit of getting over. 
 PABLO MARTIN: Yeah, definitely. But it's been good. I think I look back at Portugal after the last couple of weeks, analyzed it and saw that my game is there. It's nice to be there, losing tournaments; it's better than missing cuts. I shouldn't worry about my game. And I think now it's time to get a bit more serious about the mental side, which I think is the worst part of my game right now.

 Q. Very next week, I know it didn't work out overall but there was a very low score which made you think, presumably, the game is still in shape?
 PABLO MARTIN: Yeah, been hitting it well and even Pete Cowen tells me, "What's going on with you, I see you on the range, doing great, hitting the ball nicely." But on the course, I guess I didn't put everything together. And also looking at the mental side, probably not great. 
 So that's my goal now, try to improve that, and yeah, keep swinging the way I've been swinging lately with Pete Cowen as a coach, and Mike McGraw, as well. 

 Q. Am I right to presume this is the kind of tournament where it's great to get your mind in shape, because then in a sense, there's no great expectation?
 PABLO MARTIN: Yeah, I would like to have a decent tournament, you know, something like top 20, top 20. I mean Portugal I was looking to get a Top-10 and I was there with three shots clear the last day. So that happened really good. 
 I think it would be nice to just keep on doing the same thing. Love to be in that position again and you know keep throwing away tournaments, I don't mind that. (Laughing). It's good. 

 Q. Absolutely it's good. You know you've got the talent?
 PABLO MARTIN: Well, the talent -- well, thank you, first. It's really nice for you to say something like that. But you still have to go out there and still shoot the scores that you need to shoot. 
 Obviously I'm not really happy with my position in the World Ranking to tell you the truth. I mean, 300, so I think it's a good goal for me to try and improve that. I think it's not crazy to improve from 300. Hopefully just keep playing and have fun. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT