PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 17, 2010
Pablo Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PABLO MARTIN: I choked, basically. Meltdown. Yeah, I don't know. It was pretty clear. You could see it on TV I guess.   
 Yeah, I don't know. I don't know what can I say after that? Very shameful. Very ashamed of myself.   
  
  Q. Everything seemed to be going so very well, four strokes clear, you had the two early birdies and you recovered from the double as well?  
 PABLO MARTIN: Yeah, I was playing all right, the double on seven, obviously you just have to -- this course, you only have to do two things right, the two drivers on 7 and 18. I hit both of them in the pond, exactly what you don't want to do.   
 And, well, played decently until 3-putt that little par 3 where I just kind of lost my concentration. I wasn't -- I don't know, first putt, wasn't very good and then the second one, I hit it outside the hole almost on purpose.   
 And then, well, 15, a little chunk with the chip, bogey, and next hole, almost didn't hit the ball with a 5-iron. And that's it. And then 18, I was trying to just put it on the fairway, hit a good one, a long one, so I had a chance for birdie.   
 Then when I hit it right in the rough, because the last three day, I hit it there and from there you don't really have any shots.   
 And, well, pull-hooked into the water. Yeah, that's it. 75.   
  
  Q. I guess it means nothing now, but your second shot thea 17 was an awesome shot to get you right back into things?  
 PABLO MARTIN: Which one?   
  
  Q. Second at 17, to set up the eagle chance?  
 PABLO MARTIN: Yeah, when you've choked so much like I did today, once in awhile, you're going to hit a good one. That one on 17. Everything else you can pretty much, it was a perfect round on how to do it wrongly.   
 So, yeah, pretty bad. I don't know if I'm built to play this game.   
  
  Q. You are built to play this game, you are a twice champion and you will be again?  
 PABLO MARTIN: I don't know. Right now, pretty low on myself. I like to beat myself up a little bit. I don't know. Well, keep on trying I guess.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT