PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 16, 2010
Pablo Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   GORDON SIMPSON: We are joined by Pablo Martin, leading at the moment by three shots after a ground round of 63 in windy conditions, 9-under today. You played with Lee Westwood in the final round last year, the winner. Maybe this time you're the winner in your own right.
 PABLO MARTIN: I hope so. Hopefully. Yeah, it was a really good experience playing with Lee over here last year, and you know, hopefully I learned some things from him from that round that day. So, yeah, it's one more round to go, so really calm and hopefully pull through and enjoy the day. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: And what was it specifically that you learned from playing with Westwood in the final round? 
 PABLO MARTIN: Well, you need to get off to a good start in the first nine holes. I think it was something like 4- or 5-under par the front nine, which is what I did today. 5-under par and a couple of eagles in the first two par 5s, so that will keep you going. You can make some birdies in the back nine. But you know, the front nine, with the wind, there's some holes that if you hit it on the fairway, you've got some pretty good chances to make some birdies. Yeah, hopefully. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: You say these two eagles really did propel you forward.
 PABLO MARTIN: Yeah, definitely. I birdied one of the first ones and then two more, 5-under par, with not even nine holes played. So you know, picked up another four birdies on the back nine. So that's a good round. 

 Q. Before you teed off, Jeppe shot 61. Does that putt extra pressure on you? 
 PABLO MARTIN: No, not at all. I played with Jeppe the first two rounds, so it was really good to see him shooting that low. You know, he had really bad luck on the first day. He hit in the water and some people thought he was in the water and he hit another one, but the ball was fine. He ended up making an 8 on that hole. Yesterday he finished birdie, birdie, makes it on the number. Yeah, great, fantastic. 

 Q. Why have you had an average year?
 PABLO MARTIN: Well, my dad (Gonzalo) passed away in January from cancer. So I've been trying to, you know, to get back and getting some good scores, and I was getting really frustrated. Last week at Dunhill, I was playing really well, but I shot 79 the first and second day, so a bit frustrated really coming into this week. I was a bit upset and a bit angry and I come out here, and so maybe that's the reason why I'm doing a little better. 
 I haven't been very consistent lately, so after three good rounds, really solid. I'm doing everything well, I'm hitting the ball well and really putting well. I can't really figure it out why, such high scores, and my short game wasn't great and that's probably what I've worked on most the last few months. It's a long time of year and I still think I have to shoot very low tomorrow. Everybody behind me, 9-under, 10-under, something like that. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: The Race to Dubai getting closer and closer, this is just what you needed at this stage.
 PABLO MARTIN: This is what I needed, and so we have a feeling. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: You could be in the Top 60. We'll see tomorrow. 

 Q. What do you think about Spain and Portugal both going for the 2018 Ryder Cup?
 PABLO MARTIN: The thing is I don't have to make a decision. This is going to be a really good place to have the Ryder Cup, and I think it's going to be really, really close. Whoever gets it I think is going to be a good show like it was a few weeks ago in Wales. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: I'm sure you'd like be to playing in it, as well.
 PABLO MARTIN: Yes, everybody who plays golf would like to play in The Ryder Cup. 
 It's been fun playing in Portugal. I have so many people coming from my family, it's only like a four-hour ride. It's fantastic place to come. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT