BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 25, 2009
Pablo Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. That's a great smile to be on your face because that must have been a horrendous day, wasn't it?
 PABLO MARTIN: It was. It was really difficult out there. Really windy, but tried to make it fun, and a good round, so happy. Happy with my round.

 Q. How do you make that fun? 
 PABLO MARTIN: Well, you know, we don't play this kind of golf that often, so you know, different. You can shoot an 85 and hit the ball really well, and it's a little bit of luck. Just try to have a good, positive attitude and otherwise it's going to be way too long of a day anyways.

 Q. Give us an indication of the clubs you were using today compared to other days?
 PABLO MARTIN: Stupid. I was hitting about five more clubs into the wind. So if I had a 3-iron when normally I was hitting an 8. So a little bit of fun.

 Q. Seeing as you say it was fun, what was the worst element of today? 
 PABLO MARTIN: You know, the wind, and sometimes it was unfair, you know, but nobody said it was going to be fair today, anyway, and we knew it. We knew this weather was coming. So you just try to shoot as low as you can.

 Q. When was it unfair for you, was the ball moving for you?
 PABLO MARTIN: Oh, yeah, everybody's ball was moving everywhere; sometimes for good, and sometimes for bad. You just had to take it the way it came. 

 Q. You're in excellent position now, aren't you. 
 PABLO MARTIN: Yeah, very good. Playing in the last group tomorrow maybe or the second to last, so happy, yeah. 

 Q. And you were telling us yesterday that your game is back on song; you're competitive going into the final round. 
 PABLO MARTIN: Yeah, it's kind of difficult with these conditions really, because you need to probably get everything out of your short game and make some putts, which is a little bit of guessing and luck. 
 But you know, tomorrow everything is going to be the same, so you just have to try to have the same attitude and fight it all the way until the end.

 Q. You can keep that smile, can't you, despite the pressure of the competition?
 PABLO MARTIN: Yeah, 74, 2-over par, it felt like 6-under today. So I've got a reason to smile, and it's over, for today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT