BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 24, 2009
Pablo Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PABLO MARTIN: We got really lucky today, really lucky because we played probably nine holes with perfect weather. The wind started on probably the seventh hole, and then the last five or six, it was the only holes that was really hard to try to get it to the clubhouse fast.   
 But yeah, really lucky. It's a good round, only one mistake there, and yeah, happy.   
  
  Q. And when you were looking to get to the clubhouse fast, did you hold it together nicely, and finished well.   
 PABLO MARTIN: Yeah, yeah, I made one bogey coming up, but then birdied the last one, so yeah, happy with the round and the way I'm hitting the ball.   
  
  Q. How difficult is it with the wind?   
 PABLO MARTIN: It's hard. It's really hard, because it's gusting. It's not really consistent wind. So I think the ball is going to be moving on the greens today for sure, and yeah, it's really difficult to judge how far you hit it, and just not that easy, you know, to play out there.   
 So again, got really lucky, and got a bottle of whisky, so it's my lucky day today for the birdie at 17. So yeah, looking forward to try it.   
  
  Q. Well, you will be one of the later starters tomorrow I fancy, because this score is going to hold you in good stead, isn't it?   
 PABLO MARTIN: Yeah, I will probably wait to try the whisky after the tournament anyways. (Laughter).  
  
  Q. This is a good reward because we have not seen you up in this position for quite some time, have we.   
 PABLO MARTIN: It's been hard. It's been really difficult. Never been there before, and really, really happy the way things are going out right now. Play well the last few weeks, and getting my confidence back, and you know, see the ball going to the flag, much more often than before.   
 So that's a good feeling.  
  
  Q. Well, certainly from our perspective, looking on at the way you're scoring, another step in the right direction as it should be; you've been getting closer.   
 PABLO MARTIN: Definitely been getting closer and hitting the ball the way I wanted to, and, you know, it's just a matter of hitting good shots to get your confidence back. That's what I've been doing lately.   
 So I want to keep doing the same thing, and just keep building up and you know, try to get some good scores and just keep going and enjoy your golf, instead of the other way, which is too difficult.  
  
  Q. Has it been harder to enjoy your golf as a professional than it was as an amateur?  
 PABLO MARTIN: Yeah, it's been a nightmare to tell you the truth. It's been tough. I don't know, I wouldn't take it away from me. I think I've got a lot of experience out of it, and hopefully I've matured and learned a few good things from the bad times.   
  
  Q. What's been the hardest thing to deal with?   
 PABLO MARTIN: Yeah, it's been -- the hardest thing is not being in control of anything, or go out there and am I going to have it -- bad golf and then my head wasn't right, either.   
 I think basically it was more just I wasn't hitting the ball well, good enough, so you know, it's been difficult, but I think it's over. It's never over, you know, but it's better now. So, yeah, looking forward for the next few days and next few weeks.  
  
  Q. Was it a case, as well, of having your success so quick and having such wonderful success as an amateur that you pretty much expected to carry on as a professional and it has not quite?   
 PABLO MARTIN: No, no, my golf has been awful. It's been really bad. You just have to look at my stats. I think with one leg, somebody would play better, you know.   
 It's been my golf, not so much -- it's not a hard transition or anything. Just my golf wasn't there and it wasn't there at the wrong moment. You know, when it needed to be, it wasn't there. That's it. That's the end of the story.   
  
  Q. But it's here this week.   
 PABLO MARTIN: Yeah, it's been there for a few weeks now, so yeah, I'm confident and hitting good shots. I need to keep trying to do that, and I don't know about tomorrow and the next day, because it's supposed to be pretty bad. It's supposed to be nine degrees, max, and 50 kilometers an hour. I don't know if the greens are too fast for that. I'll just go out there and find it and try to shoot as low as I can.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT