BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 24, 2009
Pablo Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You've been fighting already for the last couple of years:
 PABLO MARTIN: I have, yes. No, you know, tomorrow and the next day, it not going to be easy, but it has not been easy for me the last year, anyway, so I'm not going to quit right now. 
 I'll keep trying to shoot as slow as I can.

 Q. Did you have one moment at all recently where you thought: "I've got it; I'm back; this is it?" 
 PABLO MARTIN: Well, you know, when you wake up and suddenly -- thinking about it, it's not that bad right now, hitting the ball better, yeah. 
 But I've been having a really bad attitude, which I think it came with just not hitting the ball well, and then suddenly when I was hitting the ball better, I still kept that attitude. So I think if you keep hitting good shots, after a while, you're going to get your confidence back. That's the stage I think I'm in right now. 
 You know, I don't care where I am at, it doesn't matter, just going to try to fight it, fight every shot, and that's all you can do. But it's true, you have to really do it, instead of changing anything.

 Q. Did you change anything?
 PABLO MARTIN: Yeah, I did, I work with Pete Cowen, I started last year in maybe October or November, and now I'm starting to feel really good. I'm hitting shots that I think even when I was playing well as an amateur, I've never been able to hit. 
 So, it's good. I like it. I like the work that I've done with him, and still have a lot of things to work on, but you know, it's getting there. It's pretty good. It's good enough to play and be up there I think. 

 Q. Did you see anyone about the head?
 PABLO MARTIN: I hit my head in Bali, surfing, after that, I started making cuts. Maybe that's it; I needed a big bang in my head. 

 Q. Are you going to a psychologist?
 PABLO MARTIN: No, I don't, but definitely I have to work a little bit on that. 
 You know, it will be easier than just trying to hit your head on the floor. 

 Q. So what you've been through is actually good now for your head, because you know you've been down and you can come back. 
 PABLO MARTIN: It's not that I'm back or anything, I still have --

 Q. You're coming back. 
 PABLO MARTIN: Yeah, it's very important, the mental side. Especially it can support you when you're not playing bad, and it can help you when you're playing well. It's a good thing to have. I think everybody knows that Tiger is, for example, better than anybody at that. So, you know, it's definitely good. So tried to work on that, maybe try to work with the psychologist or just myself. 

 Q. And at any of the times in the last year, you didn't feel the need to go?
 PABLO MARTIN: I've thought about it many times and I'm still thinking about it. 
 I've worked a little bit in the past with psychologists. It's not that it wasn't my thing, but I thought most of the time, most of the things are pretty straightforward. So you just need to do what that psychologist will tell you to do, that's the whole thing.

 Q. You need to meet someone who tells you something specifically? 
 PABLO MARTIN: You just have to be intelligent I think and figure it out. If you figure it out by yourself, you're much better off. 

 Q. Are you a good surfer? 
 PABLO MARTIN: No, no, obviously not.  







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT