U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2007
Pablo Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Must have been nice and comfortable out there to converse in Spanish all day.   
   PABLO MARTIN: It was great, really happy that they got me with Jose and Sergio. It was great playing with them and it made it a lot easier, I think.   
  
  Q.  Was Pablo your idol growing up?   
   PABLO MARTIN: Absolutely, and Sergio, too, so it was great playing with them.   
  
  Q.  Describe the round, how content are you with your round?   
   PABLO MARTIN: I'm pretty happy with it. I think I had a couple lucky breaks and I missed couple of putts, but overall I think it was all right. At least for me I don't hit it that far from the rough, but you play the mistakes and make it a bogey or trying to get a par and move on.   



 So it's pretty hard out there but greens, I think they were soft today so you go -- it wasn't that difficult, I didn't think.  But I'm sure it's going to get worse and worse.   
  
  Q.  Coming in and playing your first field on what is arguably one of the more tough tracks they've put out there, do you learn something about yourself, about your ability to play in the best field in the world?   
   PABLO MARTIN: Yeah, absolutely. I didn't know what to expect. I hit the ball all right and if you play smart, you know, if you hit it all right you are going to make -- you are going to get a high score, get a couple of birdies. Didn't have that much expectations being there, playing with Sergio and Pablo and, way too many things in my head anyway, so I was just trying to enjoy and having fun out there and I did, and having Joe with me, that was great, too, so really lucky.   
  
  Q.  Playing in a professional tournament as you did recently, where did that take your confidence and a view of yourself?   
   PABLO MARTIN: Really, it's such a complicated game anyways that you cannot really worry about all those things. I think you've got plenty just to be worried about where the golf ball goes and what you want to do out there. It's already pretty complicated, you don't want to make it more complicated than what it is.   
  
  Q.  Did you communicate to Sergio or Jose that they were idols of yourself, or did you talk about that?   
 PABLO MARTIN:  I don't know, but they are.     
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT