BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 8, 2015
Sherri Coale
Peyton Little
Kaylon Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Texas   - 59
  Oklahoma   - 46 
  
MODERATOR:   We're now joined by the Oklahoma Sooners coach Sherri Coale and student-athletes Kaylon Williams and Peyton Little.   
Coach, your thoughts about the game.  
COACH COALE:   Well, I'll start by congratulating Texas, and I apologize for my voice, I've been sick.   I thought Texas played really hungry.   I thought they were very aggressive, very physical, and they really played like they wanted to be in the championship game and I thought we played bad basketball for 40 minutes.   It was just bad basketball.   We didn't execute, we go 15 of 58 from the field, and we just -- you've got to score points to win basketball games, you've got to put the ball in the basket.  
MODERATOR:   Questions for our student-athletes.  
   
 Q.   For both players, start with Kaylon.   There were a couple moments about the 10-minute mark of both halves where they went on a pretty sizeable run, first to take the lead and in the second half to put some distance between you guys.   Can you sort of diagnose what happened on those two runs?  
KAYLON WILLIAMS:   Well, like Coach said, we had to score and we went on a long stretch in the first half where we didn't score any baskets and it hurt us because we didn't score.   And Texas, they executed and they went and scored on their end, so it was kind of hard trying to bounce back from that.   And in the second half it repeated itself and they found an area where they could stick their foot down on us and take that chance to put that gap in between the score.  
PEYTON LITTLE:   Texas just looked like they wanted it more than we did.   We never really connected the whole game, the whole 40 minutes we just couldn't get connected, and obviously you've got to make shots to win games and we didn't do that tonight.  
   
 Q.   Again for both players, Peyton first, was it anything specific that Texas was doing from a defensive standpoint?   I know they had a big height advantage.   Expand on that, what were they doing?  
PEYTON LITTLE:   I don't think it was anything Texas was doing necessarily, it was what we were doing to ourselves.   We weren't moving the ball on offense, we weren't doing what we have to do in order to win games.   We just didn't do what we're supposed to do.  
   
 Q.   I guess for both players, I'll give it to Kaylon first.   Their bigs, McGee-Stafford and Lang, just seemed to shut down the lane and though the ball might come in there, good stuff didn't happen and that seemed to put pressure on the perimeter, one had to be pushed back out.   Did it start with their height advantage inside?  
KAYLON WILLIAMS:   I think Texas used their size advantage to help them.   They did go big at one point where they had Kelsey Lang and Stafford in at the same time and they went into a high-low and we tried to play inside-out, but like Peyton said, we got stagnant and we really weren't connected on the offensive end and we really didn't put the ball in the basket to try and help us to generate things that we could get on defense to go back on offense.  
PEYTON LITTLE:   I think whenever they did go with the two bigs, we let that affect us a little bit, and give credit to them, they were good tonight.  
   
 Q.   Peyton, a minute ago you said you guys just weren't connected today.   What do you attribute that to?  
PEYTON LITTLE:   Just being not in the moment, not being totally engaged in every possession.   When it comes to this point in the season, every possession matters and we can't take possessions for granted.  
MODERATOR:   Anything further for our student-athletes?   Good luck the rest of the way in the NCAAs.   Take questions for Coach as long as she can talk, and if she can't talk we'll let her go.  
   
 Q.   Coach, specifically the Texas defense, I know you faced each other three times and Karen thinks the familiarity with both teams is one reason the defense is better than the offense at this point.   Were they doing anything specific to nullify the shots?  
  COACH COALE:   I thought we probably tried to go inside a little too long.   We really thought we could attack inside and thought maybe we could draw some fouls and we didn't have any success with that.   Got really stagnant on the perimeter when the ball did go inside, and we kept talking about cutting and moving without the ball and there was a little, maybe a three-minute span in the second half during which we took the lead when the ball went inside and came back out and we had movement on the opposite side of the floor, on the weak side of the floor, and that's how you have to play.   And we missed a few shots and quit doing that.   And when you think, you know, when Jason asked what do you attribute that to, kind of like a boxer getting hit in the jaw and getting stunned for a little bit and forgetting what his strategy is.   That seemed to happen to us, whether it was a foul that didn't get called or a shot that didn't go in or things of our own doing mostly and we let it get in the way of what we knew we had to do to be successful.  
   
 Q.   Just want to get your take on you've seen Texas at three different points in the year and obviously they've even acknowledged it's been kind of a rollercoaster season for them.   What was your takeaway of Texas today?   Do they look like a different team than the first two times you played them?  
  COACH COALE:   Well, they go 50 percent from three, I don't think they do that every night.   So yeah, I mean, I thought they played really hard together and used their size extremely well.   When those guards are knocking down threes, you've got your hands full because you've got to kind of roll the dice somewhere.  
MODERATOR:   Anybody got an important question for Coach because I'm going to let her go.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT