BIG EAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 6, 2016
Natasha Adair
Dorothy Adomako
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
St. John's - 65, Georgetown - 52   
NATASHA ADAIR: My hat goes off to St. John's.  I mean, they made plays, okay.  They have two of the best players in the league, and I felt like they put their team on their back today.   
But I also feel like our team -- with our young stars here, they came to compete.  This is always the moment if it doesn't go your way, you don't -- you find things wrong, but I saw a lot of things that went right for our team and things that we can build on.  We don't really do moral victories, but I saw my team fight today.  I didn't see them quit.  I didn't see them give up.  This is a team for sure that you will remember, that you will see grow, and continue to get better and represent Georgetown.   
 Q.  You just heard coach say that you don't really do moral victories and obviously it's a tough loss, but as a young group, what do you take away from this going forward?  
DOROTHY ADOMAKO: I mean, it's definitely not a great feeling leaving, so we just -- we've got to take it and go on to postseason and just work as hard so we can come back and give it a different shot next year.   
 Q.  In the fourth quarter, it seemed like you guys clearly really struggled to get the ball in the hoop, and that was ultimately what separated you from St. John's at the end of the game.  What was it?  Was it their defense in the fourth quarter that broke you guys down or was it simply just a matter of the fact that you guys just couldn't get shots to fall?  
DOROTHY ADOMAKO: Yeah, give them credit.  They were packing in the paint, and we just needed to knock down shots, and that last 15 minutes not putting up any points is what gave them the game.   
 Q.  Dorothy, you've really seen just in your short time at Georgetown this program from when you started here, and I remember hearing Coach Adair saying this is unlike anything I've seen from a freshman, just your leadership last year.  How motivated are you to take this program to the next step in your junior season?  
DOROTHY ADOMAKO: I'm really motivated.  Two more years left, I have big goals to take Georgetown to another level.   
 Q.  You just mentioned some things you can build upon in the future.  Can you name a few?  
NATASHA ADAIR: Well, first and foremost, I do think that we're one of the top defending teams in the league.  I mean, we're holding teams to 36 percent from the field.  Didn't do that tonight, but that's one thing that we hang our hat on.  We take pride, and we will continue to build and be just that defensive team.  But we also have two of the young stars in the league, as well, and we went against veterans tonight.  So for me as a coach knowing we have that back, I get excited about that because that is our future.  We will build upon that.   
This game definitely, Dorothy said it, when we get back, she's going in the gym.  This team is hungry.  I talked to them upstairs about just the way that we feel right now for our returners, use that as motivation.  But we're also one of the top rebounding teams in the league.   
The lid was on in the last 15 minutes and 35 seconds.  I thought we got some good looks.  I thought we got some good shots.  Did experience take over?  A little bit it did.  They've been here before, and we want our kids to understand, and they absorbed what that felt like today.  To now have that opportunity and work as hard as they can in the postseason to come back and now get that feeling and then push past that.   
I think you can hang your hat on the fact that we were picked seventh and finished fifth.  A year ago we were 10th and we're fifth, and we earned that.  There's so much promise for such a young team, for such a hungry group, and that will propel us forward.   
 Q.  You mentioned that your girls are characteristically a very good rebounding team, however, tonight you were out-rebounded 36-31.  What do you credit that to?  
NATASHA ADAIR: Well, I just credit it to it just being that night where that senior leadership took over.  But it wasn't for a lack of will.  It wasn't for a lack of fight.  I felt like we battled in there.  But this one game isn't going to deter who we are and what we do.  It's just, they had the advantage today.   
 Q.  What do you think those things are, those one or two things that you look ahead to that by next November you want this program to really be progressing with?  
NATASHA ADAIR: Well, I just want -- Dionna will be a year older, Dorothy will be a year older, Burton will be a year older, and just that experience will take over.  But I think that there's a level where those players on your team take over and where I thought we did tonight.  And our team is so balanced and a little bit unselfish.  I want them to take over even more, you know.   
I just think as it progresses, as we get older, that experience is the best teacher.  To have Dorothy as a junior leader, to have Dionna as a sophomore leader, they will have this taste.  They will have this feeling.  They will have this experience.  You will see that just transform what we do.   
 Q.  For so many programs, sometimes it takes three, four, five years to be able to get your kids in and finally be able to make it your program.  How in just two seasons has this program really become yours?  
NATASHA ADAIR: Consistency.  You know, when you take over a program, they have to trust you.  They have to know you believe in them.  I didn't come in talking about my kids first, they were the kids that were here.  They're all my kids, and you deposit that confidence in them.  You deposit -- every day it's about what they do well.  We never highlighted one or two individual players in our locker room.  Everyone had a gift and everyone had a role, and so we did it together.  But I think it just started with trust.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT