UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 6, 2008
Steven Threet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Steven Threet. 

 Q. Can you give us a couple examples of a couple plays you'd like to have back from the Illinois game after you saw the film there? 
 STEVEN THREET: We had a great opportunity before the half to get the points on the board. Our defense got us the ball back in their territory. So, you know, I think that drive, in general, we'd like to have back. Just to be there with a field goal and touchdown. I think that kind of changes the way the game kind of feels more than anything else going into the half. 

 Q. Seems like every week you've got a couple different receivers you're playing with offense-wise. Four different looks in five games. How do all those changes affect you? 
 STEVEN THREET: You know what, I don't think that's an issue, too big of an issue. Obviously, you get comfortable with certain guys. But you go out there and you play. 
 You know, we practice. We mix everybody in it during practice and whatnot, so we're ready to go no matter what. 

 Q. What do you think about the way Martavious played at the receiver role on Saturday? 
 STEVEN THREET: He obviously played well. You know, he was able to do some things just like him and Greg both had great games. 
 You know, that obviously helps out in the quarterback position when you've got receiver that's can go up and make catches even when it's not a perfect ball. 

 Q. What is the morale of the team right now? 
 STEVEN THREET: I think we're eager to get back out on the field. You know, we obviously don't like how last Saturday turned out. We know we've got to get better and improve this week in practice. So I think we're here to get back out on the field.

 Q. How much preparation do you make toward the Toledo defense as opposed to worrying about making sure you're doing the right execution? Are you worried more about yourselves than your opponent at this point? 
 STEVEN THREET: You know, I think that's a valid point. There are corrections we have to make and things we have to get better for ourselves. But at the same time, we've got to be ready for Toledo. I think it's finding a balance between the two. 

 Q. Coach talked about softness and wanting more toughness throughout the entire team. How much does he stress to you guys the whole mental and physical toughness aspect? 
 STEVEN THREET: You know, it's a main point. I know he probably said that, and we feel the same way. Just because we're a spread team, doesn't mean we're a finesse team. 
 So, you know, we've got to go out and play hard every play. You know, there can't be, you know, plays where just even if it's only one guy that, you know, might have a moment or whatever you'd like to call it, you know, even if there's one guy that's soft on that play, that could, you know, whether it's offense or defense, that could mean the difference. 

 Q. How much did Kevin impress you, the freshman? 
 STEVEN THREET: He's done very well. Coming in as a freshman, he came in in the middle of the game. Didn't really know that he was going to be coming in. But he's done well. He keeps working hard at practice, trying to get better, so. 

 Q. When you look at the film and you see the examples of guys not playing as hard? 
 STEVEN THREET: You know, it's -- I mean, it's never a good thing to see that. But I think the type of guys we have that we'll be able to get it corrected. I don't think it's going to be a reoccurring theme, hopefully. 
 So we'll just come back and work hard this week in practice every day and, you know, trying to get better. 

 Q. Do you know anyone on the Toledo roster? 
 STEVEN THREET: I do not. 

 Q. What happened there with that replay? 
 STEVEN THREET: It was a mishandled exchange. Any time there's a fumble in the back field, I guess you've got to point the finger at the quarterback no matter who may be to blame. So that's something we can't have. That killed the drive when we were only down 11 points. So we get some points there and once again, it kind of changes the complexity of the game.

 Q. What is the dynamic there where you could either give it or keep it? How do you work that out between the two of you to know what exactly what to do? 
 STEVEN THREET: Well, depending on the play depending on who is responsible for the match whether it's the quarterback and the running back. So certain plays I'm responsible to make sure he gets the ball. If I pull it, I pull it. Other plays, running back is responsible to get to the ball, but at the same time, if I pull it, I pull it, so. 

 Q. Have you looked at Toledo's game?
 STEVEN THREET: I have not. I will later today. I'll get a chance to watch a couple of their game films today to see what their defense looks like.

 Q. Do you think their team's dangerous? 
 STEVEN THREET: Definitely. I know Coach Rod said this. Any time a team can come in with any type of chip on their shoulder looking to, you know, play in front of a big stage. I know that's what we look forward to, so I feel they're probably looking forward to it the same way. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT