U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2003
Mike McCullough
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MIKE McCULLOUGH: Was Lietzke on this before? Lietzke, did you put this up or down? Here we go, how is that?  Man you know you usually get paid when you get in front of people like this.  You have a podium.  Did anybody pass the plate?

Q. (Inaudible)?
MIKE McCULLOUGH: I could do that. 

Q.  Talk about your performance today?
MIKE McCULLOUGH: My performance?  You know I don't think anybody has ever asked me about my performance like that before.  (Laughter) I was satisfied with a 70 because the way I finished the last nine holes which was the front 9 my ball striking was a little less, and my control of the golf ball was little less.  So I was happy to finish with a 70.  But when I started, I was a very excited about playing.  Everything was on go.  All cylinders.  My putting was good, driving was good. 
You don't realize you are under par in a U.S. Open  and you know at the end of the week you probably won't be.  It's very difficult to stay under par in the U.S. Open.  And I think that's what was going through my head.  It was a satisfying round but I have a lot of work to do.

Q.  You went to BGSU?
MIKE McCULLOUGH: Bowling Green.

Q.  Did you grow up in Ohio?
MIKE McCULLOUGH: I was born in Coshocton, Ohio, and that's the home of Bob presently who is the manager of the Diamondbacks.  Bob and I both live in Arizona, so the two of us grew up in Coshocton, Ohio, I went to Bowling Green and I think he went to HOU.  I'm not sure. 
I was elected into the Hall of Fame of Toledo four years ago with Byron Nelson, Frank (ph) Stranahan.  I couldn't remember who else.  Bowling Green.  So I have ties in this area.  I really like it here. 
I play well in Detroit.  We play there in two weeks.  I like Michigan.  I used to teach school in Michigan.  I did my student teaching in the Swanton area, west of the airport.  And I have one student that keeps bugging me.  Kelly sees me every time.  He followed me around today.  It's fun to have somebody call you coach.  He kept calling me coach.  I was a seventh grade physical education teacher in Monroe, Michigan.  So I not only have ties, I lived here.

Q.  When you get under par you can sing for us?
MIKE McCULLOUGH: My singing voice I leave for my daughter.  My dance I will do but not the singing. 

Q.  How long did you teach in Monroe?
MIKE McCULLOUGH: One year. I can honestly tell you that I enjoyed it very much.  I probably had as much satisfaction teaching as anything that I have ever done.  But it's just very difficult to -- it's really difficult to make a living.  I applaud people that are in the teaching profession and stick with it because it's -- they need the summers to work.  It's very difficult.  But teaching is a very rewarding job and it was for me.

Q.  You played well here today; does say something about the Midwest?
MIKE McCULLOUGH: It might be the grass.  We all know that in different parts of our country we have different blades of grass.  I'm very familiar with this type of grass.  It's what I grew up with.  And quite honestly when you see people every once in a while you see people that you know.  And when I am in Oklahoma or California or Washington, I don't see anyone I know; I can play all week.  But I will go to a store and I see somebody that I know around here. It's nice.  It's a nice town.  Thank you. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT