MOUNTAIN WEST MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 9, 2017
Leon Rice
Paris Austin
Nick Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
San Diego State - 87  Boise State - 68   
COACH LEON RICE: I thought San Diego State did a great job.  They were terrific on both ends of the floor and pounded us on the glass.   
 Q.  Obviously the matchup with San Diego State, they're probably not a typical 6th seed.  Coach Rice mentioned the glass.  How big were some of the second chances they were getting on the glass and how big was that in the game?  
NICK DUNCAN: Yeah, it was pivotal for us to come into this game and block out and get our defensive boards.  And obviously they're a very athletic team.  And they just came in and played harder than us.  Yeah, when they get 30 offensive boards and 24 second-chance points, I mean you can't win those games like that.   
 Q.  They came in shooting 31 percent for three, and go nine for 13.  Was your defense, were they just one of those nights for them or how do you look at their outside shooting?  
NICK DUNCAN: They hit shots.  That's all that matters.   
 Q.  In that last game against Air Force you had 23 assists, you were getting a lot of really good looks.  Tonight you did make I think it was nine 3's, but only 10 assists.  What was different about the offense tonight?  
NICK DUNCAN: They're a good defensive team.  They're a completely different team to Air Force.  I thought we could have done a better job of kicking the ball out a little bit.  And we got our shot blocked about ten times.  And they created momentum.  A little different team.  You can't compare the games at all.  We had our chances there, but they were the better team tonight.   
 Q.  How disappointing, the momentum you came in this game with, to lose?  
PARIS AUSTIN: It was very disappointing.  I think all of us take pride in winning basketball games.  And it always hurts to have a loss.  But this one hurt a lot.   
 Q.  At one point in time in the game you were up 39-29.  And kind of curious, what was the turning point in this game did you feel?  
NICK DUNCAN: I can't even remember.  That run was pretty pivotal for them.  We didn't respond well then.  Didn't really turn the corner after they made a run and they kept going.  We came out at halftime and we tried to come out, but they just kept pressing.  And that was it.   
 Q.  Obviously Malik didn't play in that first game with you guys.  I think he was averaging 11-ish points a game.  Has a career high with 22 today.  Hoetzel's averaging 7 and he scores 21.  How frustrating is it that this game they have their nights?  
NICK DUNCAN: I mean, they're great players.  Malik's probably one of the best gifted athletes in the conference.  He showed that and he came out and played harder than us.  22 points, and Max hit threes.  We left him open, that helped them out a fair bit.  But they're great players, and they turned up tonight and did what they do, and Max is a three-point shooter and he made 24 out of 26, and we couldn't -- that's what we do, and credit to them.   
 Q.  Nick, this is your guys last guaranteed game, obviously.  Just kind of curious, how hopeful are you that you get at least one more?  
NICK DUNCAN: It would be great to get one more.  See the blue and orange.  Love the coaching staff and all the players I played with.  Sad to go out like this.  I thought this was a pretty special group.  We worked so hard, being such a young group.  And obviously picked 7th and 5th, and doubted all year.  We've got some special guys on the team that can change the Boise State program and change the culture, and that's what we've done this year, and it's only the beginning, I think.  I firmly believe that this team will be back next year.  And these games are getting better.   
I love my school.  I always will.  Hopefully I can get one more, wherever that is.  But I just love everybody at the Boise State community.   
 Q.  I know sometimes it does come down to the players, if you guys want to play in one of those tournaments.  Do you think this is different in years past, do you think there's a chance you would want to go out and play a couple more together, and take a run at some sort of championship?  
NICK DUNCAN: No doubt.  This is probably one of the closest teams I've ever been on, in terms of cohesion, loving each other, always sacrificing for each other.  Yeah, I bet every single one of us would want to play an extra game with each other.  It's a sad way to go out and truly believe we could have done it this year.  It's possible someone is going to win, someone is going to lose.  I'm sure every single one of us would want to play one more game with each other.   
COACH LEON RICE: I've got to say, he knows how I feel about these seniors.  And he knows I don't want to talk about it.  And it was a tough way to go out.  I'm really proud of these guys.  And then he just handles all the questions, and does it all for us.  Just shows you why this team won games.   
Don't mean to break down up here, but these guys are amazing.  And no matter what circumstances they face they're always amazing.  They step up for me when I don't want to be up here talking about it, because it was a tough way to end the season.  And just it's a group I'm really, really proud of that I coached.  And you can see why.  Apologize for breaking down, but this is a special group led by some pretty amazing guys, these seniors.  So I just want to say thank you to them and how much they mean to me and this program.  So thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT