NORTH TEXAS LPGA SHOOTOUT
April 25, 2013
Taylor Coleman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Good afternoon, everyone.   We'd like to welcome 16‑year‑old Taylor Coleman from San Antonio, Texas here to the interview room this afternoon.   What a great round.   First LPGA event after qualifying in the high school shootout on Monday and you come out and shoot 68.   Just tell me what was this day like for you.   I'm sure there were plenty of nerves early on, but what a great round.   
TAYLOR COLEMAN:   Thank you.   I actually played pretty consistent.   I was going out there just trying to smile and have fun with my caddy and not look at the scoreboards and just stay focused.  
And after a rough first hole, I came back and I was able to make a few birdies on the back nine and then finished a good round.  
THE MODERATOR:   Those nerves on the first hole, I know that tee shot must have been tough and you said chunked a little bit on that second shot?   
TAYLOR COLEMAN:   Yeah.   The first tee shot was really scarey.   My foot slipped and I was shaking so bad.   But my next shot was even worse.   I was shaking even worse, but after about the second hole, after I made that putt for par, I lost all my nerves and I just had fun out there.  
THE MODERATOR:   What was the experience like in terms of I know you were here on Monday and you played in the qualifier and then you actually had to go back home to go back to school to actually get some class time in and then got to come back yesterday afternoon, but what has it been like being around these pros?   And I'm sure these are people who you look up to and get to watch on TV a lot.   What has it been like practicing around them?   
TAYLOR COLEMAN:   It's been nerve‑wracking also seeing how they're hitting it and how perfect they're all hitting it.   But it's a great experience.   I am so glad.   And I have an amazing opportunity to be there with all of them and it's cool having them say hi to me and saying hi back and being able to talk to them.  
THE MODERATOR:   I know you listed Paula Creamer as your favorite player.   Have you gotten a chance to meet Paula yet or have you seen her yet?   
TAYLOR COLEMAN:   No, I haven't, but I saw her ‑‑ she was right next to me on the putting green.   I saw her putting.   We didn't talk at all.  
THE MODERATOR:   I'm sure she's going to be impressed.   Shooting 68 out here, tied for third, pretty impressive way to come and debut, but what were kind of the keys for you out there today?   What were you most focused on as you were playing out there on the golf course?   
TAYLOR COLEMAN:   I was just mostly focused on hitting each fairway and each greens and having a few putts and whacking it up there close, and when I was given a good opportunity to make birdie, I was trying to take advantage of it, and I did.  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Taylor?   
   
 Q.   Taylor, as you said, you kind of calmed down and got things going.   Just talk about what was the big difference on the back side and just the several birdies you had there?   Any particular shot that really you remember from the day?   
TAYLOR COLEMAN:   On the back nine I was getting more comfortable with my swing and having some more confidence, and I think the shot on No. 13, the par‑3, I hit it pretty close and we all thought it was going in, and I hit it to about four feet and made the putt and then started it all.   And then I drained a 30‑putt off the green on the next hole.   So that kind of gave me a big confidence boost.   
   
 Q.   Can you explain your second shot, what happened?   You said that was even worse than the drive.   I wondered what happened.   And then how did you get yourself going after that?  
TAYLOR COLEMAN:   I was shaking so bad, and my swing was probably just shaking on the back swing and the down swing.   But after that I just started to have fun and not worry about my swing so much.  
   
 Q.   Taylor, prior to qualifying on Monday, when was your last competitive round and where was it?  
TAYLOR COLEMAN:   It was actually Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday.   I had two tournaments.   I had a regional on Wednesday and Thursday, and I shot 63, 73.   And so that was a good boost going into my AJGA tournament that weekend where I shot 76, 71, and that got me third place there.   So going into Monday's round was a good confidence boost, and I played well there also.  
   
 Q.   That's the class 5A regionals you're talking about?  
TAYLOR COLEMAN:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   And I'd like to follow up if I could.   You dealt with nerves today.   How do you deal with a little bit of confidence going into tomorrow?   Is that a different juggling act?  
TAYLOR COLEMAN:   It's a little easier knowing that I played really well the first day, and so tomorrow I'm just going to go out there and have fun again and not worry about it and not have my nerves that I did today.  
THE MODERATOR:   I know you had your coach Tim Hobby out there on the bag today.   How much did that help you having him there to kind of help calm those nerves a little bit?   
TAYLOR COLEMAN:   That helped me a lot because he's had a lot of experience caddying for every tour out there.   He's a great player as well, so he was able to help me read the greens and helped me choose which shot to hit into the greens and it really helped me a lot.  
THE MODERATOR:   And how long have you been working with Tim?   
TAYLOR COLEMAN:   This is my third year, almost three and a half years.   And he's really changed my golf game.  
THE MODERATOR:   And when did you start playing golf?   How long have you been a golfer?   I know you played on the AJGA.   Take us through what your experience has been like leading up to this point.  
TAYLOR COLEMAN:   I started hitting golf balls with my dad, started getting lessons when I was six years old, and then when I was eight years old, I started playing the U.S. Kids Tour and STPGA Little Linksters.   And from there I think I was around 12 when I started playing AJGA.   And that really helped me a lot.   That gave me great learning experience, and the AJGA has just helped me so much.  
THE MODERATOR:   I saw you in a lot of good luck messages on your Twitter account from a lot of friends, and one of your friends even said that she was going to miss you in English class today, so I'm sure you're going to be getting a lot of messages later.   And if there's any more questions for Taylor?   
   
 Q.   Autographs, I saw you signing one.   How many have you signed?   
TAYLOR COLEMAN:   One.   
   
 Q.   So you'll need a little bit more practice on that?  
TAYLOR COLEMAN:   I think so.   
   
 Q.   How much fun has this ‑‑ I realize it's only one day, but how much fun has it been leading up to this and then today?  
TAYLOR COLEMAN:   It's been so much fun.   It's been a blast out here with my family and my coach and just being around all these LPGA players makes it even more fun.   
THE MODERATOR:   Any more questions for Taylor?   Thank you so much.   Best of luck tomorrow.   I hope you just keep enjoying in entire experience.   
TAYLOR COLEMAN:   I will.   Thank you.   
THE MODERATOR:   You're welcome.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT