NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: MARLINS v CUBS
October 11, 2003
Aramis Ramirez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Can you take us through the grand slam home run and your concentration and the fact the pitcher there was walking everybody?  When and what time did you think you were going to get the pitch that you did to hit?
 
ARAMIS RAMIREZ: Like you said, he walked three guys before the play.  And he threw the first pitch slider, and I knew it was going to be tough.  And then it was tough, I just wanted to put it in play, and I got the run in. 
 
Q.  What was going through your mind when you were running the bases, went through the bases on your grand slam?
 
ARAMIS RAMIREZ: It was exciting with the kind of pitching we have, since it was the first inning, I knew it was going to be tough for them to come back. 
 
Q.  I think the grand slam was on the 11th pitch that you saw at that at-bat.  Were you looking for a pitch in particular or were you just trying to stay alive?
 
ARAMIS RAMIREZ: I was just trying to stay alive.  You don't want to strike out.  One out, bases loaded.  You want to put the ball in play, and at least get one in. 
 
Q.  It looked like you borrowed Sammy's hop there before you rounded first base.  Did you notice that and recognize that and did he ask for it back?
 
ARAMIS RAMIREZ: No, I was excited.  It was a 4-0 lead.  And I was excited. 
 
Q.  Do you have any idea what it would be like in Chicago if you guys happen to win tomorrow night?  You've only been there a short time, but do you have an impression of what it might be like?
 
ARAMIS RAMIREZ: It's going to be great for the fans out there.  We haven't won in 95 years.  It's going to be crazy out there.  They deserve it.  And like I say, they're great fans and they deserve it. 
 
Q.  Why has this team been able to score in the first inning so often all of this postseason?
 
ARAMIS RAMIREZ: I think the key is our leadoff guy in Kenny and Mark.  They've been great.  And Sammy and Mo are our strength.  And I think we have done it so far. 
 
Q.  You've started your season with the Pirates.  Did you imagine hitting a grand slam in the postseason?
 
ARAMIS RAMIREZ: Right now, like we always joke with Kenny, that we were supposed to be home watching the postseason on the TV. 
 
Q.  When you first were traded to Chicago, did you view it sort of like a short-term thing, like you were kind of a rental player, and do you feel now that you'll be around Chicago for a while?
 
ARAMIS RAMIREZ: I don't think nothing about that stuff.  I want to go out and play baseball and see what happens.  If you're good you're going to stay there, and if you don't, they're going to get somebody else to get the job done. 
 
Q.  Can you talk about the way the coaches have worked with you and made you relax to be the outstanding player that you 
 always knew you could be? 
 
ARAMIS RAMIREZ: I've been working since I come over here, my defense and offense and I think they've helped me a lot.  And I appreciate it a lot.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT