RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 28, 2013
Roger Sloan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you wrap up your week for us?   
ROGER SLOAN:   Yeah, it was really nice to finish with three birdies there.   It's been a great week.   Really impressed with the support I've had from the local crowd here.   Yeah, it just hasn't sunk in yet, but it was an extremely awesome week.  
   
 Q.   What kind of stuff can you take away from a week like this?   
ROGER SLOAN:   Yeah, you know, it's just part of the process that I'm on to finally win it on this TOUR.   I've just got to take it step by step and kind of recall everything from this week and chalk it up to experience and use it going forward.  
   
 Q.   Roger, yesterday you played with Vijay Singh.   What did you learn from watching him?   What was that experience like?   
ROGER SLOAN:   I learned thousand make eight birdies really quick.   You know, he's a class act like I said yesterday.   You know, it's kind of nice playing with somebody who has obviously had a handful or come handful of wins out here.   You learn a lot from a guy like that, his composure and just the way he handles himself.  
   
 Q.   What were the conditions like out there?   How would you describe the golf course?   
ROGER SLOAN:   It's tricky.   My first few holes, you know, I guessed the wind wrong on a few holes and it kind of cost me.   I had a really good shot on 4, and just hit a gust of wind and it came up short in the water.   But we started to get a little bit of a handle on the wind the final few holes there.  
   
 Q.   You can measure your game now against this kind of field.   Does it reassure you that you're not far off?   
ROGER SLOAN:   Oh, no.   The PGA TOUR is not way up there anymore.   It's just within grasp.   It's comforting to know if I stick to the process and stay committed to what I'm doing, I'm going to be out here soon.  
   
 Q.   Roger, you had a consistent week.   Two rounds of 71 each and two rounds of 72.   What was your strategy coming into this tournament?   
ROGER SLOAN:   My strategy in each tournament is the same‑ to find the fairway, find the green and make a putt.   Just put the ball in front of me.   I felt I did that quite nicely.   I had a couple tough breaks and couple tough bogeys back there that I had to battle back from.   That's what I'm ultimately pleased with is how I battled back each and every round and came back to shoot a decent round.  
   
 Q.   Can you give us a comment on the status of what you see in Canadian golf right now?   
ROGER SLOAN:   It's so promising right now.   There were a handful of guys that were out here.   Adam, him and I hang out quite a bit on the Web.com.   Richard Scott, Matt Hill is out there, and there are a handful of guys on PGA TOUR Canada that are winning right now, And we have four or five guys that are playing well on the PGA TOUR right now.   So I think Canadian golf is in really good hands right now.  
   
 Q.   What are you going to do with your winnings?   Is this a honeymoon fund?   
ROGER SLOAN:   Honeymoon!   No, you know, this has just been such a good experience for me.   I'm definitely going to enjoy this week.   Going to go play Pittsburgh next week and enjoy the week after that, wedding week.   So I'm just going to enjoy it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT