RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2013
Roger Sloan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Weekend at the Canadian Open, no big deal, huh?  
ROGER SLOAN:   No big deal, just another weekend at the office.   No, I'm excited to play in front of the best golf fans in the world this weekend.   It's been a joy here these first few days, and keep the ball rolling here the next couple days.  
   
 Q.   You have a run at being low Canadian, too.   
ROGER SLOAN:   You know what, that's always on every Canadian's mind.   Not only do we want to win this tournament but we want to represent Canada the best we can, and that Rivermead Trophy is something every guy guns for.  
   
 Q.   Coming into this weekend you had a bit of an up‑and‑down season and the past two weeks have been really good.   What's changed over the last little while for you?  
ROGER SLOAN:   You know, I kind of often describe it as a job promotion.   Playing the Web.com is a Tour up from the PGA TOUR Canada, and I was kind of playing quite cautiously the beginning of this year, really afraid to make mistakes, and I kind of saw it as me putting a governor on a Ferrari.   The past few weeks it's kind of been nice to take the governor off and drive the machine the way it's meant to be driven.  
   
 Q.   You came in as one of the 18 Canadians, probably a little bit unknown, now you're going to be a bit of a focus, only one of the four guys going to be on the course this weekend who are Canadian.   
ROGER SLOAN:   It's just a great opportunity to get experience out here on the PGA TOUR.   Obviously this is where I want to be.   This is where I want my career to be.   So I'm just committed to being focused out there on the golf course, hitting quality golf shots and just seeing what that does for me.  
   
 Q.   How many friends and family do you have here?  
ROGER SLOAN:   I think I'm getting more friends as the tournament goes on.   It's nice to have a lot of support from the local people here in the Toronto area, but I do have some family out here.   It's really nice to enjoy the evenings with them, went to the ballgame with them, and kind of have a little bit more relaxed atmosphere away from the golf course.  
   
 Q.   Do Canadian golfers put more pressure on themselves in this tournament?   Can you sort of describe what it's like to be a Canadian golfer at the Canadian Open and just getting people like us talking to you?  
ROGER SLOAN:   You know what, it's your national open.   It means so much to you.   A Canadian hasn't won it in eons, so I think every Canadian really wants to perform well at their national open.   You can put a little bit of extra pressure on yourself, but at the end of the day you're out there on the golf course, and it's you and your targets, and I think if you can focus on that and put the distractions aside, you can play well out here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT