THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 8, 2011
Jose Manuel Lara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOSÉ MANUEL LARA: I played solid from the tee, putting okay.  
  
  Q. Only one bogey over two days, terrific going.   
 JOSÉ MANUEL LARA: Yesterday, I think it was because of the stop on No. 2 I was waiting for half an hour and when I hit driver, I hit the ball in the water. I missed a couple of shots, driver and that was one.  
  
  Q. Which is further evidence of good play across the season.   
 JOSÉ MANUEL LARA: Yeah, I didn't make any good finish this year, maybe top three in Sicily, but I think I'm taking my solid game again, and it's what I try to do, just to be again making cuts and not missing too many as I've been doing.   
  
  Q. I seem to recall speaking to you at the The Barclays Scottish Open on numerous occasions, an event that's been good for you, but different venue?  
 JOSÉ MANUEL LARA: Yes, I played good in Loch Lomond a few years, and I'm happy to be here in this tournament.   
  
  Q. So what's the difference between Loch Lomond and here? Do you like this links course?  
 JOSÉ MANUEL LARA: I like this links course but this one it can be very -- it can change a lot with the weather. If the wind blows, it's going to be -- also depend where they put the pins, can be very difficult, and the only thing, the fairways are wide. That's why it gives you some gap from the tee. But we'll see on the weekend what they do with the pins.  
  
  Q. Were you conscious with the weather that you've got to make something?  
 JOSÉ MANUEL LARA: This morning it was really good, and now it's changed a little bit. So I'm just going to have some lunch now. I don't want to think about it.  
  
  Q. An awful lot can change with the weather but you're in a fine position, any idea what a winning score might actually be here?   
 JOSÉ MANUEL LARA: Depends on the wind. I think it's going to be -- to me, 19 is going to be the number, 19-under is going to be the number, 20, maybe more. Some guys, Lee Westwood is not starting already, so they are going to putt the leader at 13-under, so it's going to be more than 20. Just depends of today.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT