BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2011
Jose Manuel Lara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. So let me say, congratulations, because you've made the cut for the first time. That's pretty good going. 
 JOSE MANUEL LARA: Well, yeah, you know, I just -- what can I say? On the last, three, four holes, I was a little bit nervous. I never made the cut in this tournament, and it's a huge tournament. It's the biggest we play every year. You know, I can't describe it how I feel now. I'm in the weekend in a good position and enjoying myself on this course, so happy.

 Q. We will emphasise, you are in a very good position, particularly given the form on those last few holes. They have been kind over these two days?
 JOSE MANUEL LARA: Yeah, definitely, as we say, they are in really good positions. The last two holes on this course, you are waiting for them, because you have been working all day very hard and then you have two par 5s to finish. But one of those par 5s where you can make birdie, or you can make whatever, you know, seven or six, so if you miss the driver.
 But I finished really good yesterday, I finished good today and I feel happy.

 Q. We reflected on an eagle on 17 at the opening day, and now it's a very long part of the last for birdie. 
 JOSE MANUEL LARA: Well, I just missed my second shot to the right. I was talking about my caddie about to try the green or not and we say, well, minus three, we need to make birdies and I miss to the right and I just played to the middle of the green because in that position, you are going to put the ball in the water for sure, if you try to play straight to the pin.
 And I put the ball like ten metres, and I holed the putt. I wasn't expecting that. I was trying to make two putts, but I holed it.

 Q. You said about working hard out there. Tell me why it's so hard today, because yesterday it was obvious with the weather, but less so today, it's more pleasant?
 JOSE MANUEL LARA: Well, yeah, but the course is longer today. They put the tees back again, so it's playing a little bit longer, and, well, it was cold in the morning, a little bit cold. Now it's a little bit better but it was cold. This course was always tough. It doesn't matter if the sun is shining or raining but it's a very good course.

 Q. And I suppose the wind just above the trees, regardless of how strong it is, it blusters?
 JOSE MANUEL LARA: It's one of those courses you try to see the top of the trees at some times are going one way and the other ones are going the other way, and it confuses yourself. 

 Q. What are your thoughts now? You've achieved the first hurdle but being involved, I assume you are as competitive as ever. 
 JOSE MANUEL LARA: Well, I will see. If I'm honest, I'm going to try to enjoy it, because it's a good tournament and I'm really happy to be in on the weekend and in position. I'm going to try to enjoy, play my golf and see what happens.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT