ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 1, 2009
Jose Manuel Lara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A good day for you out there?  
 JOSE MANUEL LARA: Yes definitely, I am very pleased with that. I played really well and I only made a couple of mistakes out there, the worst one was probably when I three putted for par on the 14th, the par five. But apart from that I caught most of the greens and my putting wasn't bad so I can't really complain.  
  
  Q. It can be difficult here because the greens are so big?  
 JOSE MANUEL LARA: Yes they and it was windy out there as well which made it even trickier. With the size of the greens it is difficult to put the ball close to the pin which means you are quite often left with five or six footers for par which are just as crucial as the ones you make for birdie. But it was a really good round and is my best score ever at St Andrews so I was delighted with that. I think the best I have done before was something like two under. In this tournament in the past I seemed to play better on the other two courses so maybe it was time I did something here.  
  
  Q. Everyone does say though that this is a course you need to take time to get used to?  
 JOSE MANUEL LARA: And they're right. Now I know a little bit more about how to manage to get the ball round here. I know where all the bunkers are and I know which areas of the course to miss as well as the best places to go. There are also some holes you just have to try and go for the middle of the greens and avoid the flags. This is definitely a course where experience counts.   
  
  Q. You must be looking forward to the rest of the week now?  
 JOSE MANUEL LARA:. With a five under start, definitely. Especially as I hear the weather might not be the best over the next couple of days so it is a good start.  
  
  Q. You are currently 97th on the Race to Dubai, a good week here could push you into the top 60 and in with a chance of playing the Dubai World Championship?  
 JOSE MANUEL LARA: Yes it is. I have another four or five tournaments left after this one but this is the big one and this does give me a lot of confidence. I have been struggling a little bit this year, a bit up and down, but hopefully this will be the start of another up.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT