MAYAKOBA GOLF CLASSIC AT RIVIERA MAYA - CANCUN
February 21, 2007
Jose Manuel Lara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Welcome, have you had an opportunity to play the golf course so far?   
 JÓSE MANUEL LARA:  Yes, I've had two practice rounds yesterday and the day before.  I found the golf course to be in very good condition.  I hit the ball quite well, and I'm sure that the competition is going to be quite tough.   
  
  Q.  What are your expectations in this tournament?   
 JÓSE MANUEL LARA:  This is my first PGA tournament that I've played in, so I'm quite excited to be here and to be able to play with top world quality players.  We all speak the same language, which is golf.   
 My expectations are the highest.  I hope I can get there.   
  
  Q.  What kind of grass is used on this golf course?   
 JÓSE MANUEL LARA:  We are not used to playing on this kind of grass.  We are from Spain and we have a different kind of grass, so we have to get used to it.   
 The tees here are a little bit longer than we are used to, but it's just a matter of getting used to the distance.  We have to take into account the wind blowing from the ocean.   
  
  Q.  Are you taken back with the layout of the golf course?   
 JÓSE MANUEL LARA:  We have rivers all along the golf course, we have natural water springs, we have areas with jungle, we have areas next to the beach and the ocean.  So the two par 3s facing the ocean are extremely beautiful but very difficult.  You are facing a strong breeze from the ocean.   
  
  Q.  What are your impressions from the tee boxes?   
 JÓSE MANUEL LARA:  You need to be very careful to make sure you land on the fairway as the rough usually means landing in the water or going into the jungle, so we have to be very precise on our tee shots.   
 The greens are quite firm.  They have dried out with the breeze from the ocean, and they are a little bit tough to land the golf ball and make it stick.   
  
  Q.  What is the main challenge for you in this tournament?   
 JÓSE MANUEL LARA:  And the main challenge would be to win this tournament as I won four months ago the Hong Kong Challenge.  Therefore, my main purpose here is to win this tournament on the PGA TOUR.  I've been in second place five times on The European Tour, and so I look forward to doing a very good job on the PGA TOUR.   
  
  Q.  What are your odds of really winning this tournament?   
 JÓSE MANUEL LARA:  Well, I have no idea, but I'm going to give it my very best effort.   
  
  Q.  Is there a big difference between the emotions and the feelings between playing The European Tour and playing on the PGA TOUR?   
 JÓSE MANUEL LARA:  Well, yes, it's quite different.  This is my first week on the PGA TOUR.  I don't know anybody.  I'm starting to make a few acquaintances.  I hope to make some friends.  So I'm rather alone here.   
 I'm using my English language knowledge as best as I can to make some friends and to make more acquaintances.  And I know that there's more emotion and more different sensations on the PGA TOUR compared to The European Tour where everybody is more subtle and more quiet.   
 I've been here to Cancún before two years ago with my girlfriend, but I never had a chance to play, so now I'm going to enjoy it very much.   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT