STANFORD UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 30, 2013
Tyler Gaffney
Kevin Hogan
Wayne Lyons
Ed Reynolds
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   Wayne, what are your reads on the interception?
WAYNE LYONS:   We were in a cover‑three, so I had a deep defense.   I was able to see the ball in the air.   It was under‑thrown.   That was pretty easy for me to come back and scoop it. 
Second interception, it was a go route.   The guy was pretty fast.   I had to catch up a little bit.   I was in position.   It was a question if I was able to come up with it.   I was in the right place at the right time, I believe. 

Q.   Wayne, did you feel it was important for you to make up for the touchdown that you gave up earlier? 
WAYNE LYONS:   Yes, absolutely.   Sometime you have to have a short memory because any small movement or small mess‑up, big plays happen.   Sometimes you have to let those things happen and bounce back from them, have a short memory. 

Q.   Kevin, what do you think was the difference in this game between your team and Notre Dame? 
KEVIN HOGAN:   Well, we found a way to finish.   We ran a balanced offense, ran the ball well.   Gaff had a great game, hit some key third‑down conversions, kept the chains moving. 
We'll take our defense against any team.   You saw what Wayne did at the end of the game, those two clutch picks.   We were able to run the clock out. 

Q.   Kevin, what was the situation on the two interceptions that you threw? 
KEVIN HOGAN:   The first one, I actually just threw it a little high.   I had him.   I just threw it.   It was clearly my fault. 
The second one was a go route and the guy made a great play.   But it was third‑and‑long.   Ended up being basically a punt.   No harm done.   We won the game. 

Q.   Tyler, coach thought this might have been your best game at Stanford.   What do you think? 
TYLER GAFFNEY:   I mean, first off, tangible evidence is the Legends Trophy, that's at stake.   10 wins, we pride ourselves on that.   That's something we wanted to do before the season. 
But Notre Dame, they're big, they're strong, they're physical.   We match up.   That's exactly how we play.   That's exactly what we do on offense. 
We took it to them and were fortunate enough to come up on top.

Q.   Kevin, with all your connections to Notre Dame, how does it compare to what you expected? 
KEVIN HOGAN:   I mean, I came out tonight treating it like any other game.   Left the emotions away.   I can tell you now that it felt good. 
But it was a good team win.   They're a very good team.   It took four quarters of good football to beat them and a complete total team effort, offense, defense, special teams. 

Q.   How quickly will you turn your attention to Arizona State and the title game? 
TYLER GAFFNEY:   Already done. 

Q.   Ed, this might be the last home game of the season.   Appropriate it came down to defense on the field, making plays, making a stand? 
ED REYNOLDS:   Yeah, just something our coaches have preached since spring ball, no matter what kind of situation we're put it.   So even though Hogan had a couple turnovers, we don't look at it as, Oh, man, he's put us in a bad spot. 
We go out there and take advantage of the opportunities put forward to us.   It was great to finish the game that way, especially with these fifth‑year seniors who have put in a lot of time to build this program to what it is right now.   It's just a great feeling. 

Q.   Kevin, can you talk a little bit about Tyler.   33 carries.   Is there some gamesmanship there?   He was showing fatigue, then busts out with that type of run. 
KEVIN HOGAN:   Yeah, I think he was just being deceptive.   He was saving it up.   But he's our workhorse.   We're going to ride him till the end. 
Heck of a game, both running the ball and what he does in the passing game protecting.   We try and (indiscernible) offensively up front, try to open up the holes for him.   They did a great job. 
It was a great total team effort especially from the guys up front.   You saw what Gaff does every time he gets the ball. 

Q.   Coach Shaw says after another 10‑win season, this team has to be considered 'elite'.   What did you consider the Stanford program before you came here? 
(TYLER GAFFNEY):   Since I'm the oldest, being recruited here, you knew it was tough sledding.   The record didn't show it all that well.   Notoriously within the recent 10 years, hasn't been all that good. 
Coach Harbaugh came in, preached the mentality.   Coach Shaw did the same thing.   We're going to be a physical team, execute all of our plays.   We've got the talent to win some games, and that's what it came down to. 

Q.   Tyler, you are built similar to Notre Dame.   Does that help you during the week? 
TYLER GAFFNEY:   Yeah, definitely.   Like I said before, we're big.   We like to be physical.   We're strong.   When a team tries to impose that will on us and play our game, I think we have the upper hand. 

Q.   Tyler, were you at the PAC‑12 title game? 
TYLER GAFFNEY:   I was here. 

Q.   What will it mean to you now to play in that game? 
TYLER GAFFNEY:   It means everything.   I guess it's a little bigger stage.   Being able to play with these guys day in, day out is why I came back.   I love these guys.   I love Stanford.   This has been an unbelievable opportunity this season. 

Q.   Ed, Tommy Rees came off the bench last year to throw a touchdown pass against you guys.   Gave you problems again this year, except for the two picks he threw.   What did you think of his performance? 
ED REYNOLDS:   I think he's a little underrated.   I think he's a very good quarterback, smart quarterback.   But we were giving him a bunch of different looks up front, whether it was with our blitz package or our coverages. 
He would go up and make checks.   It was kind of like a chess match out there.   He's a great competitor.   He can make all the throws.   As a safety playing in the back end, it's good we have the front we do to put pressure on him so he's not just standing, patting the ball, being able to find guys downfield.   On the outside, our corners played exceptionally today pressuring their wideouts, not giving up any big plays. 

Q.   Wayne, when was the last time you had two picks in a game? 
WAYNE LYONS:   Never.   It was a great game for me.   Just thankful. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT