STANFORD UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 23, 2013
Tyler Gaffney
Kevin Hogan
Ty Montgomery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Kevin, so what's the morale like in the locker room right now? 
KEVIN HOGAN:   It's great.   Anytime we win the big game, especially the news we got that we have another opportunity presented three weeks down the road. 
But we celebrate all victories, and this one's a big one.   It's a huge rivalry.   We're excited to win this game today. 

Q.   Kevin, how much fun was it to be able to throw the ball a few feet to Ty and have him go 72 yards, for instance? 
KEVIN HOGAN:   It's awesome.   Just getting him the ball, he makes me look good. 
Really it was a total team effort today.   Ty couldn't have gotten the ball if the offensive line didn't give me good protection. 

Q.   How much fun was it to play a game like this for you?   Talk about what it was like for you out there playing against this defense, having everything click. 
KEVIN HOGAN:   Yeah, I mean, it was fun to get the passing game going, especially the way they were playing defensively, allowing us to throw the ball, trying to take away their run game. 
It was nice to get it clicking, get some guys the ball. 

Q.   Ty, there was one play where the guy had you by the jersey and you pretty much dragged him into the end zone.   Can you tell me what was going on with that.   He had no shot at stopping you. 
TY MONTGOMERY:   No, I don't think anybody was stopping me.   I get that close to the end zone, I pride myself on scoring. 

Q.   Did you have an idea the game was going to be like this for you?
TY MONTGOMERY:   I never know what the game is going to be like.   I just give all praises to God. 
Whatever the outcome of the game is, I want to do my best and give everything I have for my teammates.

Q.   At what point were you aware of the Oregon game?   Do you have a message for Arizona? 
TYLER GAFFNEY:   When the crowd went wild.   Had a couple coaches on the sideline kind of mention it.   I mean, the trainers, other guys. 
But you hear the crowd, what it means to Stanford, what it means to us.   It's huge to hear, especially with the game pretty much put away at that point. 

Q.   Ty, when you saw the defensive scheme Cal was using, did you think you would have the opportunity to have the kind of game you had?   Did you ever have a game where you scored this many touchdowns? 
TY MONTGOMERY:   Not me personally.   I knew as an offense we were going to be able to do what we did today.   I don't really think too much individually. 
I don't know if I scored this many touchdowns in a game before. 

Q.   You don't know? 
TY MONTGOMERY:   I don't know (laughter). 

Q.   Who would know? 
TY MONTGOMERY:   I guess my mom would (smiling). 

Q.   Kevin, the past three games before, your numbers weren't anything special.   From the outside people would say your confidence would be down a little bit.   How was your confidence after the past three games?   And guys, what did you see from Kevin this week in practice? 
KEVIN HOGAN:   I never lose my confidence.   I have so much talent around me, I don't know how anyone could lose that confidence. 
But, I mean, defenses present different things.   Different weeks you have different game plans, what you want to do, what you want to emphasize. 
Today there was a lot of looks to throw the ball downfield so we took advantage of it.   Other days we'll give Gaff the ball 45 times, let him do what he does. 
It's a week‑in, week‑out thing.   I'm happy for the way the offense did today.   Looking forward to continuing it moving forward. 
TYLER GAFFNEY:   They did somewhat exactly what we thought they were going to do.   They put everybody in the box, tried to stop the run.   Stanford, we take pride in the run.   When you have guys like Ty, Rector, Hogan throwing the ball on the money, we take advantage of it. 
I just remember one pass, one touchdown, another pass, another touchdown.   When they do that, we're going to take advantage of what the defense gives us. 
TY MONTGOMERY:   Hogan is always confident.   I have all the faith in the world in him.   He put the ball in the right spots today, and we executed. 

Q.   Can you talk about what you felt like when you heard the Arizona result? 
TY MONTGOMERY:   Felt great to know we were going to get another opportunity at the championship game.   But I was focused on this game. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
TY MONTGOMERY:   No, it's always special to be able to get in the end zone. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
TY MONTGOMERY:   When I got tackled (laughter).   I don't know. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT