STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 24, 2015
Kevin Hogan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Washington - 14  Stanford - 31

Q. After the Cardinals 31-14 victory to make you bowl eligible after beating the Washington Huskies.  Kevin, I know coach always says the first goal of every season is to get bowl eligibility.  You do that tonight obviously.  Bigger goals ahead for you guys, but what's it mean to get to six wins this early in the season?
KEVIN HOGAN: It means a lot.  You cherish all the time that you get to spend with these guys and so we're guaranteed one more game.  That's one of our goals is to get bowl eligible and get that extra game.  It's not our end goal, but it's a goal along the way.
Q. Two touchdown passes for you.  290 yards through the air.  Let's talk about the two touchdown passes.  First the 21-yard completion to Hooper, and then the 50-yard play action pass off to Christian McCaffrey?
KEVIN HOGAN: Yeah, so that was a play that we put in this week, the first one to hoop.  I executed really well.  I kind of put the safety in a bind with a guy coming over the middle and Hoop going over the rail.  So just tried to put it on him, and he carried the guy into the end zone.  He's a big, physical guy.  He wasn't going to be stopped.
Then the other play to Christian, he was wide open.  Just tried to float it out there to him.  Bryce love had a great pick-up block on that one to stop the wheel from coming up field, and Christian took the rest of it.
Q. What's it like watching Christian?
KEVIN HOGAN: It's awesome.  I have the best vantage point on the field.  The things he does sometimes I'm like why are you cutting that way?  Oh, that's why.  He just breaks out and he's just so special.  You can split him out wide.  You can have him in the backfield running gap scheme, he can run zone, he can do it all.  He's a really special player.
Q. Lastly, Coach Shaw left you guys out on the field a couple times on fourth down.  You converted both times.  What's that say about the confidence he has in you guys?
KEVIN HOGAN: It's awesome to see.  I think you can ask anyone on our offense, if you give us four downs, we're going to get ten yards.  We dug ourselves a hole a few times.  But it was nice to see us getting those opportunities for fourth downs.
Q. Your second carry you became Stanford's all-time leading rushing quarterback.  That must be kind of special for you?
KEVIN HOGAN: Yeah, it's cool.  I mean, just there's been a lot of great quarterbacks there.  Some running quarterbacks too.
Q. Plus a guy named Andrew Luck?
KEVIN HOGAN: Yeah, that's pretty cool.  So I'll probably shoot him a text or something, but it's funny.  I mean, quarterbacks aren't known for getting rush yards, but just trying to get what I can, and it's a cool thing.
Q. Do you feel now that you're 6-1 and you're going to move up in the rankings, are you glad that you came back for another year?
KEVIN HOGAN: Yeah, absolutely.  I mean, what we have here is very special right now.  We have a great team.  I needed to improve better as a player in a lot of different aspects of my game.  I feel like I've gotten better, and it's only -- a lot has to do with the guys around me and helping me get better and be the guy that I can be.  So we're all in it together, playing for each other.
We say it every day, if you don't care who gets the credit, it doesn't -- there is (No microphone).
Q. The long pass to Christian, what did you see on that?
KEVIN HOGAN: Yeah, it was kind of a play-action where we fake it into the boundary and had the extra receiver kind of go up in the middle and put the safety in kind of a bind.  It's kind of a two on one.  He kind of went with the inside guy and Christian was on the rail on the sideline.  Just tried to get it to him.  Nothing special.  Let him do what he does, and he made a guy miss and took it the distance.
Q. As far as Christian's concerned, five straight weeks of 100 yards rushing or more.  In the past couple of weeks specifically, so many yards through him.  What's been the difference the last couple of weeks?
KEVIN HOGAN: I think we're getting into a rhythm offensively.  I think we're hard to predict right now whether we're going to run our pass out of our different formations and personnel groupings, and it's nice to have.  There are so many guys you can put out there and you can run power with Hoop and with Dalton and Greg, and then you can split them out and throw the ball.
Then Christian, he's just so special.  The offensive line is really gelling right now, and they work together.  I mean, Christian sets up his blocks.  The O-line has a good feel for him and what he's going to do, and they set each other up and it's awesome to see.
Q. How has it been playing through injury and being able to come back and be a little more consistent?
KEVIN HOGAN: I mean, this is the first week where I've felt like I could really move around and do something and not really favor it.  So I felt pretty good.  Just got to stay confident in the pocket and go through my reads.  Don't need to get out of it too soon, but it's nice if the play breaks down, I can get out and maybe get a first down.
Q. Could you talk a little more about Christian?  Just the way he plays, he's such a relentless guy, he's not that big, but he keeps on coming.
KEVIN HOGAN: He's a leader on this team.  Everyone looks to him and just his attitude.  I thought he got that first down when he reached his arm, dragged a guy for ten yards on the screen pass.  But it's just like those plays that he makes where he's going to keep going driving those legs until he get that's first down or in the end zone.  He's just a really special player and he can do it all.
Q. When you saw him open on the sidelines, did you say there is a touchdown?
KEVIN HOGAN: Yeah, I just tried to get it up and down and let him do what he does with the ball.  Wasn't anything special on my part.  I will give a shout out to Bryce for picking up the blitz on that one and allowing me to get it up as well as the O-line.  Just getting the ball into Christian's hands and letting him do what he does.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT