STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 15, 2015
Kevin Hogan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Stanford - 56  UCLA - 35


KEVIN HOGAN: He just -- I mean, it speaks for itself.
Q. I had already put my head down because I thought it was going to be a flag, an incompletion, and then I saw that he scored.  Was that your reaction too?  Did you see that he caught it?
KEVIN HOGAN: Yeah, so, my vantage point was -- first I thought that he was too far down field, and so I tried to take air out of it, because we were running out of field, and I wanted to get it there.  And then I thought that it was just going to be a pass interference, but he went up and got it.
Q. He caught the football and the defender, simultaneously?
KEVIN HOGAN: Yeah, it was like a perfect catch.  I saw his hands on it, and he maintained control, and I had a perfect view.  And I saw that our referee's arms go up, so it was unbelievable.
Q. What did you tell him when you saw him?
KEVIN HOGAN: I was just like, that was incredible.  That was probably the greatest play I've ever been a part of.
Q. Is this the best you've seen that offensive line play in your time here?  You've had a lot of good blockers and runners.  From your perspective, how well is this O line blocking at this point?
KEVIN HOGAN: They're doing a great job.  The thing is, they're only going to get better.  They have improved each week, and I think three straight 300 yard games or something, whatever it is.  And they're getting into a rhythm with Christian.  They're setting up blocks, they're setting up lanes for him to cut back.  They work together and it's great to see because it makes my job easier.
Q. It never gets boring handing the ball off for 9 or 10 yards?
KEVIN HOGAN: No, it never gets boring.
Q. Watching you on the video up in the booth, you have this little smile on your face all the time, kind of like you're looking right now.  Are you just like enjoying yourself on the sidelines?
KEVIN HOGAN: It's a lot of fun.  When you're playing well and executing.  But at the same time, we're -- we know that we can be better, so we're excited for next week.  We want to be even better than tonight, but it's great to just --
Q. You still look like your eyes are this big and you're super intense.
KEVIN HOGAN: It's nice, because we're succeeding, but each week it could be someone else.  Hoop had a couple great catches in the first half, and he didn't catch a ball last week.  Guys are making plays and --
Q. Hoop had some great catches, third down catches, huge plays.
KEVIN HOGAN: Yeah, its great to see people stepping up and encouraging each other, and it's just selfless football.
Q. You had some big completions on third down early on to keep some drives going.  Is it safe to say you're feeling pretty good ankle-wise at this point?
KEVIN HOGAN: I'm feeling good out there.  I'm still going to be in the training room a lot.  I feel like I have a good thing going with the training staff, and they're getting me out there and getting me healthy.  So, hopefully, one of these days I'll be back at 100.
Q. What did you do?  Did you twist it?  I can't remember what the play looked like?
KEVIN HOGAN: The sack at USC.  I sprained it against USC.
Q. (No microphone.)
KEVIN HOGAN: That's fine.  That's fine.
Q. How about the team though?  I mean, here you are, at this stage of the year, just kind of pounding people in a lot of ways.
KEVIN HOGAN: Yeah, we're at our goal right now, which is to win every PAC-12 game, and that's our goal at the end of the year.  But each game, it comes with winning, but each game only gets bigger, doesn't matter what the team's ranked.
Our next opponent is UW, and they're a great team.  Great defense.  And we know that we're going to get everything that they have.  So, we're already looking forward to them and seeing -- we're going to watch the film tomorrow and Monday and see how it goes.
Q. Kevin, did you get a good look at Francis's catch when he made it or what?
KEVIN HOGAN: I had a great view.  Straight down -- I didn't know really know how it was going to go, I thought maybe it was just going to be a PI.  We were running out of field and kind of tried to take the air out of it.  And I saw the contact, but he just put those big arms around, and he's got huge hands and had a grasp on the ball, and it was just unbelievable that he maintained control to the ground.
But I had a great view of it, and I saw it and thought that he -- it was a touchdown.  And saw the ref throw his arms up to confirm it and it was just unbelievable.
Q. Is that the best catch on of one of your passes that you've ever seen?
KEVIN HOGAN: I mean, Francis and Kodi might have to battle that out.  They're making me look good though.
Q. How long has that play been in the making?  What made you guys call it then and there?
KEVIN HOGAN: So, we have actually had that play in our offense for a long time.  I don't know if you guys will remember this, but Andrew and Ty completed it five -- four or five years ago against Southern Cal in the triple overtime game.
We have had it in our offense.  It's just the first time that we have run it since, but we ran it yesterday in practice.  And just the way that the UCLA safeties had to come up and support the run, we thought that we could get them to bite and get behind them and Francis did the rest, just made a heck of a catch.
Q. There's a lot of season left, but what does it mean to get a win like this against an opponent like UCLA on national television?
KEVIN HOGAN: It's big, but they only get bigger.  You don't get trophies for mid-season wins, so we're just going to keep getting better and keep rolling.
Q. Notre Dame is going to be fun.
KEVIN HOGAN: They only get bigger each week.
Q. How has Christian's role grown in this offense since he got on campus.  With the kind of game he had tonight, what has that done for the offense in general?
KEVIN HOGAN: He's just an incredible athlete.  I wouldn't even call him a football player or running back, he's just an incredible football player.  He does everything.  He does it well.  He's very hard on himself.  And then he helps bring the best out of everyone.
He's got a great thing going with the O line right now.  They're really working together and jelling and setting things up, setting the defense up.
And then he can come out of the back field and make any catch.  He's one of the best receivers in the country, also.  So, he's just a great player, and the sky's the limit for him.  He's hungry, and he's only going to get better.
Q. Did you get a good look at the catch?
KEVIN HOGAN: I got a good look.
Q. Every time you see replay is it just --
KEVIN HOGAN: Yeah, I mean, it's just incredible.  I can look at it a million times.
Q. Two refs threw yellow flags on that play.  I thought for sure that it was just a PI.  I couldn't believe that he caught it.
KEVIN HOGAN: We thought we were going to get the PI.  I thought that there was a chance just because he was running, he didn't know where the ball was, and I mean, Francis just made a heck of a play.
Q. Andrew's senior year, he got to call some plays in the Washington game at home.  How do you think you would do in a scenario like that?  Would you ever take that opportunity?
KEVIN HOGAN: Yeah, 10 times out of 10.
Q. Have you noticed a change, maybe at halftime, in terms of the offense against UCF?  Did it jump start you guys after that game?
KEVIN HOGAN: Yeah.  I think that we might have been pressing too hard early on maybe.  It was so long ago.
I mean, our -- we're on our way to our goal and that's our goal at the beginning of each season.  And honestly, it's a blessing in disguise what happened at the beginning of the season, because you realize how hard it is to win a college football game.  You can't take anyone lightly, and not saying that we did, but you have to have everyone on board and on the same page and that's what we started doing, we're just dwelling as a team in all phases.
Q. What do you think the team's been scoring at least 41 points in each of your last four games.
KEVIN HOGAN: Just execution.  We're converting third downs, moving the chains and just big play opportunities.  You see Christian have a big kick off returns to set up short drives and then just taking advantage of what the, of what's there.  We feel like we have a lot of explosive players, so just getting them the ball and letting them do their thing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT