STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 12, 2015
Kevin Hogan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 UCF -7
  Stanford  -31 
 Q.  Can you talk about the difference in your offense from last week?  
KEVIN HOGAN: Yeah, I think that one of the big things is we executed better today.  We were able to move the chains and keep the drives going and that allowed the bigger plays to happen.  Last week we weren't very good on third down and kind of stalled, and it doesn't allow you to get into a rhythm.   
So I think we were better this week.  The big plays are going to come, so it's just a matter moving the chains and keeping the offense going.   
 Q.  Kevin, how are you going to describe to your grandkids your career-long 92-yard touchdown pass?  
KEVIN HOGAN: I'll say I threw it 92yards.  But, no, Bryce just made me look good.  Heck of a run by him.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
KEVIN HOGAN: I mean, yeah, he just has big play written all over him.  Smart player too.  We're putting a lot on him right now to kind of move around, different formations.  But he gets the ball in his hands and something special can happen.  He had a couple key first downs, and then obviously the long plays that were the big plays and then the momentum's in our favor.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
KEVIN HOGAN: I mean, it was just getting in the end zone.  You never want to allow it to creep in where, oh, wow, we can't get in the end zone.  It was almost like breaking the ice.  I think everyone kind of settled in after that and felt comfortable.   
But it was just a good all-around play.  It was a play we needed.  We didn't do much offensively before, and it's just one of those plays that you need to kind of get yourself going.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
KEVIN HOGAN: He can do it all.  I mean, he is very hard on himself, and that is the sign of a great player that he is so successful and running between the tackles, outside the tackles and catching the ball.  He's so hard on himself to be better.  But I thought he played a great game in all facets of it.  Stinks that he had that punt called back.  But, overall, I think that he's going to get more and more comfortable each week.  I think we're just kind of scratching the surface of what he can do.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT