MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 14, 2018
Daniela Darquea
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You got a hole in one yesterday and now you're up at the top of the leaderboard; how big was that shot in all of this?
DANIELA DARQUEA: Well, I guess, yeah, it really got me going.  After that I had a couple birdies going in that really helped.  That's obviously helped me move outside of the cut line to inside, so that was fun.  I think I'm just trying to do my best.  Trying to hit the best shots that I can, and holing as many putts as I can.
Q. What kind of momentum, does that provide you for today?
DANIELA DARQUEA: Well, I'm feeling really great about my ball striking.  Just the first round I just couldn't get any putts to fall in.  I guess I figured it out, and now I'm having a lot more fun on the putting green, so that really helps.  It gives me a lot of momentum.  Obviously, the hole in one was big.  It really helped me, especially to get the relief of making the cut already.  So I guess I'm going to just try to keep doing what I'm doing.
Q. You finished the round at 5-under.  Going into tomorrow, how confident are you?
DANIELA DARQUEA: Pretty confident.  I feel really well with my ball striking.  I think that's a big thing.  I've been struggling a little bit this year with that.  Finally I got to where I want it to be, and it's just a matter of holing putts and just watching the breaks and having my own routine all the time.  I feel pretty confident.
Q. You haven't had too many scores under par, not too many cuts this year.  You were on the cut line as we talked about earlier.  But is there something about this course that you like, that maybe you're playing well on the weekend?
DANIELA DARQUEA: Yeah, definitely.  I like the course.  Like many of the courses out here on the LPGA, definitely this one's special.  But as I was telling you, I think my ball striking is getting a lot better.  I've been working really hard.  I've been trying to make some adjustments to keep it more consistent, and finally it's paying off.
Q. With a decent amount of low scores out there today, do you feel like the pin placements are a little more favorable today compared to the first couple days?  I know that's something some girls talked about was pin placements.
DANIELA DARQUEA: Definitely.  I feel like it was a lot easier to go for the pins on the second shot, especially.  You don't have to be playing that conservative.  I guess the tee was up on 9.  That really helped too.  Maybe a lot of girls were driving that hole.  I really liked the greens.  Like it's now I feel like the best rounds you could go for the pins a lot more than the first round.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT