BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 21, 2012
Keith Horne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KEITH HORNE:   It was a good day overall, I think I played pretty solid the whole day.   I missed a few chances the front nine, some close ones, but I think with the greens being so soft, you can hit a lot close, and you're going to miss the odd chance but yeah I was happy with the way I played?  
   
 Q.   So the approach shots really worked?   
KEITH HORNE:   Yeah, I was playing solidly the whole day, and then on the back nine, I hit a couple really close, and that got me off to a start with some birdies early on.  
   
 Q.   We had an expectation this was going to play difficult with the rain and thick rough, but it's good scores, aren't they?   
KEITH HORNE:   I just think with the weather being perfect and no wind, the greens being soft, I think no matter how narrow you make the fairways and the greens soft, everyone is going to be hitting it close and giving themselves chances.   
   
 Q.   You certainly took advantage.   
KEITH HORNE:   Yeah, I did.   I was quite happy, I knew getting out early today was going to be an advantage.   I think the guys this afternoon are going to struggle on those greens, there's a lot of footprints out there already on the back nine and I think this afternoon is going to be a lot worse and for us tomorrow afternoon.   I was quite happy having a good round this morning.   
   
 Q.   How has the low round been coming?   
KEITH HORNE:   Sorry?   
   
 Q.   How has the low round been coming for you?   
KEITH HORNE:   Yeah, I've been playing well for a while and just not getting the low rounds I need and I'm shooting them in strange times.   
Like in Wales, I shot 79 and 66.   Hopefully we can just keep them coming low this week.   
   
 Q.   And keep them going throughout the week.   
KEITH HORNE:   Correct.   
   
 Q.   Has not been the consistency has there?  
KEITH HORNE:   Yeah, there has not been the consistency.   I have been playing well, so hopefully we can keep it going for all four rounds for a change.   
   
 Q.   Good to play alongside Richard Sterne?  
KEITH HORNE:   Yeah, it was great fun to play with Richard.   He got off to a flyer this morning and was playing beautifully and he obviously dragged me along with him.   
   
 Q.   You spurred each other on?   
KEITH HORNE:   I think he spurred himself on the back nine and he spurred me on the back nine.   He got a bit stuck on the back nine.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT