PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 14, 2011
Keith Horne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   KEITH HORNE: Good day today. I was a bit frustrated yesterday, it's the kind of golf course that frustrates you when you are not making birdies, and I got off to a good start, made some birdies and that makes all the difference.   
 From then on, the pressure is off and you're a few under par and you can get into the stride, which I did, so I was very happy with that.  
  
  Q. Presumably there was chance upon chance upon chance out there.   
 KEITH HORNE: There always is on this golf course. I missed a lot of birdie putts out there and I made some naughty mistakes coming in. So there was lots of chances, as well, but I can't be unhappy with 65.   
  
  Q. Did you relish this kind of golf course?  
 KEITH HORNE: Not really. I much prefer the harder golf courses and the ones where par is a good score. But sometimes you get on a golf course where you feel comfortable, and if you feel comfortable on the ones that there are a lot of birdies, it's actually a lot more fun.   
 But I would prefer the tougher golf courses. I think it becomes a bit of a putting competition, etc., out here. But he yeah, you know, if you are playing well in it, then I think there can't be much wrong with it.  
  
  Q. Once in awhile to play some holiday golf, have a smile on your face is good fun, isn't it.   
 KEITH HORNE: Yeah, and you have to keep going forwards, because you know everybody else is going to be making birdies, so there can't be a let-up. The minute you make a bogey, or you don't birdie a par 5, you tend to get down on yourself because you see everybody flying up the leaderboard the whole time. So as long as you stay patient and make a few putts, you should be okay.  
  
  Q. Any course at home remotely like this?  
 KEITH HORNE: Nothing like this. But as far as scoring-wise we play a golf course in Swaziland, Royal Swazi and the scores there are always very low, as well. It's one of those golf courses where if you don't go sort of 5-under par, 4-under par, you're going backwards, so very similar to this one.  
  
  Q. And the beauty here is that everything is nicely laid on for you, plenty of diversions and permanent sunshine?  
 KEITH HORNE: Yeah, it's perfect. I don't think I'm going to hit some balls. I'm going to get something to eat and have a beer and lie on the beach maybe. The weather is perfect. Sometimes being relaxed is better than grinding it out. So I'm looking forward to relaxing afternoon and enjoying what the golf has got to offer.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT