SAAB WALES OPEN
June 3, 2011
Keith Horne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A lot of concentration out there today wasn't it?
 KEITH HORNE: Yes, it was. It was a tough day out there today. I started off the front nine a bit too tentatively and guilt I of trying to protect a good score on the first day and just trying to sort of get into it on the front nine, and not make any stupid mistakes. Unfortunately the front nine is the scoring nine. 
 So a whole lot of pars and a few naughty mistakes. I think I cost myself three shots. I had an easy up-and-down off and on 15 which I didn't do and a 3-putt on 16 and 18 was playing straightforward downwind and I missed my tee shot into the rough on right there. I think those three shots at the end of the day were a difference between a really good scrambling score and an average score today.

 Q. You sound accepting of it and not beating yourself up about it.
 KEITH HORNE: No, could have been a lot worse. I got up-and-down from some ball washers on the back nine, which was the front nine today. My short game really saved me. It was tough going out there, a lot of tough chips and putts that I had to make and I pulled them off and made a lot of putts, as well, on the back nine, just for par. 
 So you know, I would have been disappointed with 2-over at the start of the day, but the way I scrambled and held in there today, I can't be too disappointed with it.

 Q. I take it on the range you were fully aware of just how windy it was and you're shaping those shots accordingly, and you're aware of other scores out there, as well. You knew it would be tough. 
 KEITH HORNE: Yeah, I did know it would be tough. I thought there was a couple of good scores out there. I see McDowell is going a few under par and a few guys that are actually playing pretty well out there. 
 I think it's just a case of getting through the front nine even par or so and there are some birdies out there on the back nine to get under par. 

 Q. What are your thoughts on your position at present into the weekend? 
 KEITH HORNE: It's great. You know, a couple behind and I suppose it would have been seen as a perfect position to go into the weekend, but I'm going to try to be a bit more aggressive this weekend and try to make a few more birdies and not be too tentative.

 Q. And you can draw on experience from the Sunshine Tour, from the Asian Tour?
 KEITH HORNE: Yeah, that's right, and I've been near the lead a lot of times in Europe, and unfortunately let it slip on the weekends. Obviously I've had a few wins in Asia and been right neared lead, as well. So, I have had enough experience. I think I'm just going to try and be, as I said, a bit more aggressive on the weekend and we'll see, come what may. 

 Q. Current the first occasion you were up there and you've bettered things since.
 KEITH HORNE: Today would have been a lot worse score the way I played, on the first occasion I was up there. So I think my experience certainly helped me dig deep today and not shoot a big number. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT