ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 21, 2010
Keith Horne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   KEITH HORNE: It's nice to come off a good week and play well again. I enjoyed it thoroughly. The course is in amazing condition. The greens are quite a bit faster than last week and took a little bit of getting use to but I made a lot of putts. I can't complain and I had a about time out there today.

 Q. Not easy to put back-to-back performances together but you seem to be on a roll. 
 KEITH HORNE: As I said last week, I had been playing well for a long time, so there's a lot of confidence coming behind it. 
 It wasn't just sort of I played well that week. I just couldn't get any scores going before that. I had been playing well, but just had not been getting it under par, for some reason, very frustrating, although my game has been right there. It wasn't like it suddenly clicked last week. 
 So there wasn't too much hard work, and I wasn't too worried about how I was playing when I was arriving. 

 Q. They have made a point of saying that there's something about the desert courses that makes it feel like playing at home, I don't know if it's the same for you?
 KEITH HORNE: Not really. I just think the weather that we are used to -- we struggle in cold weather and wind and rain to swing the club. I certainly don't swing it very well in that. And also the ball sits up better on this grass than the normal grasses in Europe. It does, the weather, it makes you feel more comfortable here, just from the weather perspective, I think I feel a bit more at home.

 Q. Indeed the whole of The Desert Swing that we play?
 KEITH HORNE: Yes, hopefully I can keep playing well and sneak into next week and keep going in The Desert Swing. It's great. This week is fantastic. The golf course is super. The hotel is unbelievable and it's just a lovely place to come, and the weather was awesome. There's no humidity. It's just a lovely temperature. I can see why people come and hit golf balls here and it's lovely. 

 Q. In a sense on keeping it going, we haven't seen a lot of you on The European Tour for a little while now, have we?
 KEITH HORNE: I've been playing mostly in Asia and I've been steering clear of The European Tour. I haven't played very well on it in the European events I have played and I had to do a lot of travelling playing 40-odd events trying to keep three cards going when I had a conditional status in Europe. 
 So I basically decided to laugh off the Europe side of things and concentrate on the areas that I had a full card, mainly Asia and South Africa. So I've done that and got my game going back again and will pretty much stick to it. I'm not going to race around chasing cards. I will play in the ones that I can and that I feel comfortable, I'll keep doing that.

 Q. Is there still that ambition to move to that next stage, to play Europe, to play the PGA? 
 KEITH HORNE: Yes, there is. You get comfortable where you are, but you always need to push yourself to the next level the whole time, otherwise your game stagnates. 
 So you need to start looking to the bigger tours and the better players, the higher-ranked players in the world. And so it has improved my game just playing against them. But the world's best players play in Europe and the U.S. Tour, so if you want to start improving to get closer to their standards, you need to start playing against them. 

 Q. On a different note, good to get this round done, isn't it? It's getting very dusty. 
 KEITH HORNE: It was terrible. We were running like anything to try and finish. We had a slow patch with about three holes to go and got further behind and just happy to get in and get finished. It was pretty dark on the last green. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT