SOUTH AFRICAN OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
December 18, 2008
Keith Horne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. That was a satisfying day, I would say. 
 KEITH HORNE: Yeah, it was pretty good. It was good fun. Sort of beastly this morning. Everybody was petrified of the golf course. And luckily, I actually made some putts and played the first couple of holes downwind, which didn't make them much easier, but I made some putts early on and the wind died down and I was really into nice groove and kept it going. 

 Q. Playing well coming into this? 
 KEITH HORNE: I finished sixth last week in the Dunhill. I think I played better today than the whole of last week in any of the rounds. No, not fantastically. I've been feeling good about my game but not scoring well. I think a few good scores last week, that's how golf goes, ebbs and flows; once I shoot under-par scores, I do it for a while. 
 I've been playing well, but haven't been able to get any momentum going, so it's been nice for the last week and today.

 Q. Nice tournament to do it in. 
 KEITH HORNE: It is.

 Q. Do you get an extra thrill playing at home in the SA Open? 
 KEITH HORNE: Yeah, it was an option to play in the Tour Championship in Asia at the same time as here, because I kept my card but I was going to lose a lot of spots. 
 But I enjoy playing here so much, and this week so far has been unbelievable. They are treating us like gold, it's a great experience. 

 Q. And with Leisurecorp and The Race to Dubai?
 KEITH HORNE: Yeah, the guys are spending a hell of a lot of money to make it a world-class event. I think the sponsors of the South African Open are proud this week. 

 Q. Second-oldest tournament in the world. 
 KEITH HORNE: We take a lot of pride in it and to see them putting so much effort is satisfying for all of the golfers, as well.

 Q. Great to lift the trophy on Sunday. 
 KEITH HORNE: That would be fantastic, but I won't start thinking about that until the back nine on Sunday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT