ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 19, 2006
Keith Horne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. To many of us you are a new name and a new face, tell us a little about yourself?
KEITH HORNE: Well, I am qualified in Asia and South Africa and I play most of my golf there. I get to play a few times on the European Tour when they are co-sanctioned with the Asian Tour and the South African Tour so I have had an opportunity to play in a few European Tour events so I think that helped me today for sure.
Q. Are you a man who takes his chances?
KEITH HORNE: Well I have had a few chances this year, I wouldn't say that I have taken my chances because I have had a few disappointments this year and finished badly in a few events and in a few the year before as well but I think the more I play at the top level the more I will get used to it and it should become easier.
Q. You have upstaged a pretty all-star field so far?
KEITH HORNE:  Well, I think we can talk a little bit more about this at the weekend but today I just tried to play a good round of golf and not think about too much else but I think that will enter my head a little bit more at the weekend, so we will worry about that then.
Q. Of course no-one has a start on you because this course is new to everyone in the field?
KEITH HORNE: Yes, that is an advantage and it is my first time to the Arab States as well so I think it is new for everybody.
Q. As for today you put together a solid round of golf?
KEITH HORNE:  Yes, very much so, it was very good, I hit the ball nicely and I just tried to concentrate on hitting the ball well today and not getting ahead of myself which I tend to do so I was very happy with my round today.
Q. It seems like the wind is cutting across most fairways?
KEITH HORNE:  It is but I am used to the wind. I grew up on the coast in South Africa and I play well in the wind so I am quite happy to see it blowing and I hope it keeps blowing for the next three days. I think the harder the golf course plays the better for me. I have to concentrate more then and generally the better I do so I hope it continues to play tough through the week.
Q. You are here because your form is good, top five in the South African Airways Open to get you qualification?
KEITH HORNE: That is right and it is great to be here and I am just trying to enjoy myself. It is the first time I have played a European Tour event which is not co-sanctioned with another Tour so I am enjoying it very much. It is a big event with a lot of good players so I am just trying to absorb it all.
Q. You did well in China too at the end of last year?
KEITH HORNE:  Yes I have been playing well for the last three years now and it is just a case of getting used to being in certain positions that you feel more comfortable in. I have been improving steadily over the years and it is coming together.
Q. Will you play the Challenge Tour this year unless things go really well here this week obviously?
KEITH HORNE:  No, I won't. I am playing in Asia and that gets me a lot of starts in the co-sanctioned events in Europe and South Africa so I won't be playing the Challenge Tour, no.
Q. Does that suit you?
KEITH HORNE:  It suits me very well.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT