NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS VS. HEAT
September 23, 2020
Jayson Tatum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  Miami Heat 112, Boston Celtics 109
 Q. Your thoughts on differences of focus, intensity and force that you played with here in Game 4 as compared to Game 3, particularly in the first half?
 JAYSON TATUM:   It wasn't as good as it needed to be.  We didn't play well enough in the first half.  We responded in the second half, but they were already feeling good about themselves, in a rhythm.  It was tough.
 Q. How did you process the news today with Breonna Taylor?  How did you deal with all the emotions knowing had you a game tonight?
 JAYSON TATUM:   It's frustrating.  I kind of felt like we knew what was going to happen, and then still when it happens, it's sad.  It's frustrating.  It's been 194 days.  There's still no justice.  Still having to fight for the same thing.  It's just a lot to process.  It was a tough day, a tough day for all of us.
 Q. How disappointing is it that the biggest game of the year you guys come out flat?  You're in it the whole game, take the lead, then Herro and Jimmy -- seems like you had it for a minute and then you lost it again.
 JAYSON TATUM:   It's tough.  Like I said, they played better than us in the first half.  The second half we picked it up, but they were already in a rhythm, feeling good about themselves.  A lot of guys over there made a number of good plays.  It was tough to come back from.
 Q. It seemed like in the first half you were not really yourself.  Trying to kick it out a bunch.  What changed in the third quarter to start to get to the rim, look for your own shot, score more inside?
 JAYSON TATUM:   I wasn't aggressive enough.  I didn't score in the first half.  That's unacceptable.  I know I have to play better.  That's what I tried to do.
 Q. What's the mindset going into Game 5 now knowing your backs are against the wall, no room for error?
 JAYSON TATUM:   Leave it all out on the floor.  We just got to go one game at a time.  We don't have to win the series the next game.  We just got to give it all we got.  It's win or go home from here on out.  So that's the approach we got to take.
 Q. Do you have any explanation for why you came out so flat in the first half?
 JAYSON TATUM:   No, I don't.  I wish I did.  Simple answer is we got to be better.  We know what's at stake.  We know what's on the line.  We got to be better.  We got to play a complete game.  It's win-or-go-home time.
 I wish we would have played like that from the start.  I take a lot of blame.  I didn't play like myself in the first half.  So I got to be better starting the game off on both ends.
 Q. When you were on ball, there were a couple blitzes at the end on Jimmy to try to get the ball out of his hands.  They ended up catching you guys for open threes on the other end.  What was behind the decision to blitz high up on the ball when you were having success switching before that?
 JAYSON TATUM:   Give them different looks.  Something we talked about in the huddle.  Came to an agreement.  We all were on the same page.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT