NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS VS. HEAT
September 15, 2020
Jayson Tatum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  Miami Heat 117, Celtics 114 OT
 Q. You settled for a contested three at the end of regulation.  At the end of overtime you were aggressive, got all the way to the rim, put up a shot that 99% of the time would go through.  Did you feel like you needed to be more aggressive after seeing what happened at the end of regulation?
 JAYSON TATUM:   I mean, I like both shots that I got.  I just missed one.  They made a great play at the rim on the second one.  I don't know.  Just take whatever the defense gives me, to be honest.
 Q. You were up 14 early in the fourth.  What happened?  They got into the bonus.  Why was the offense stagnant down the stretch with iso ball?
 JAYSON TATUM:   Yeah, we got in foul trouble early in the fourth.  That hurt.  Then we just have to be more consistent, continue to do what got us the lead.  I think we shied away from that a little bit, allowed them to get back in the game.
 Q. Can you walk us through what happened on the last possession?  Looked like you had an opening to the lane before Bam came over.
 JAYSON TATUM:   I mean, you just said it.  He made a great play.  He made a good play.  Can't do nothing about it.
 Q. I know the loss hurts, especially the way it happened.  How nice was it to see Deuce today?  What does it mean to have him and your mom in the bubble now?
 JAYSON TATUM:   It's great.  Two and a half months or whatever without seeing our families.  It's refreshing to finally get to see some familiar faces, spend some quality time with him.
 Q. Obviously you knew this was going to be a significant challenge from the Heat.  Did they do anything different tonight that you're going to have to adjust to moving forward, particularly on the defensive end?
 JAYSON TATUM:   We are going to watch film.  There are a lot of things to talk about, to look at, to make adjustments for Game 2.  That's what the Playoffs is: making adjustments, seeing what you did well, seeing what you can do better, move on.
 Q. During this game, did you learn more about them?  Obviously you played them once here without Jimmy Butler.  But it's been months since you played those guys.
 JAYSON TATUM:   They're a good team.  They are here for a good reason.  There are four teams left.  Well-coached.  Some great players.  I mean, it's not like I'm surprised.  They're a good team.
 Q. Is it disappointment because you let it slip away or is this just kind of a feel-out game?
 JAYSON TATUM:   I guess it's disappointment.  You never want to lose a game.  But it's not the end of the world.  Best-of-seven.  Just get ready for Game 2.  It is what it is.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT