NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 8, 2018
Charl Scwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 4-under par 68 to start with, it has to be very pleasing?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Very much so.  This morning I thought it was difficult.  The wind blew a lot in the beginning and the first few holes were all straight into the wind.
You know, on this course, starting off here is key.  Got off to a good start, made one bogey today and was on 8.  The wind turned on us so came up way short.  Drove the ball really well, basically hit the ball really good.  It was a good start.
Q. Didn't look like there was much wrong with any part of your game?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I said at the beginning of the week, this is about as good as I've ever played.  Yeah, that's about it.
Q. Being at home, do you feel more relaxed about everything?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, nice to be home.  Like I'm saying, I'm playing about as good as I feel that I've ever played, but confidence and playing golf is a different thing.  They sort of go hand-in-hand and it's been a very difficult year.  It's nice to play at home, courses I know.  Start building confidence and probably start seeing some great results.
Q. Not particularly you specifically, but there seem to be quite a few putts missing out there today.  Are the greens a little bit tricky?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: These greens are always tricky.  You know, you put a bit of wind in it today and they are fast enough for the wind to affect it.  You just get it a little bit wrong and you could hit good putts all day without not making much.
Q. Is tomorrow more of the same or what's the approach?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: This golf course, you can never take it for granted until the 72nd hole.  It really tests you every single hole, every single shot you hit.  You know, you've got to stay committed, keep firing and if you pull off the shot it's going to be your week.
Q. What do you think will be a good number over the four days?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: You know, four 4-unders is never far away on this golf course, especially the way it is with no rough now.  I know last year 11-under won, but anything there, 15-, 16-under is normally very close.
Q. Given that, how important is it to capitalise on the four par 5s?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: This golf course, those are the holes to score on.  It's difficult to make birdies on par 4s and par 3s here.  You know, but the par 5s are there.  If you hit good tee shots, you have to capitalise.
I hit 6-iron into 14 and made par.  You should be taking advantage of those sort of things.
Q. Just a thought on 18, the new tee there.
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, I don't think it's very clever.  I would have left it where it was.  I would have taken out the bunker rather than the fairway.  Make the guys play more aggressive.  Bring the water into play.  If the guy is willing enough to hit it far enough up there, give him a 9-iron in and make him make a birdie for a more exciting finish.  It's the biggest grandstands on the golf course, and you make the hole long, basically just everyone is just playing for par.
Q. You hit a great drive on 18 with 3-wood?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I did.
Q. What did you hit in for the second?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I hit 9-iron in.  That's what I say, today is downwind, so I hit it up the left side and managed to have a 9-iron in but as I say, it you left the tee where it was, you take the bunker out, you'll get guys hitting 3-wood from the short tee a lot further up there and you know, on Sundays, people want to see -- and there's a danger to it.  You can still make bogey if you want to be aggressive but you pull it off you've got a big chance at birdie.  That's why I don't think length is always the answer.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT