THE SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SOFTBANK INVESTMENT ADVISERS
February 7, 2021
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. 5-under par, can you talk about your round?
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, that was the best golf I played in quite some time.  I won't go crazy like Poults but I did not make one putt today; longest putt I made was seven feet for par on 16 so really clean round of golf.  I didn't putt poorly at all.  Was quite a aggressive with my putting.  I was getting them to the hole and rolling them two- or three-foot by and kept making the ones coming back in the middle, so I felt confident in my putting all day but couldn't get them to fall.
I guess I was in decent position going into the final round in Dubai, seventh place and had a poor Sunday and drops you being back into making it a terrible week.  Nice to feel like I've come out of the three-week trip with a nice bit of positive momentum today.
Q. Was this anything you've worked on that clicked?
JUSTIN ROSE:   I've been working on a lot of stuff but really staying patient.  I haven't been playing my best golf and easy to get frustrated.  I've kind of stayed with it, even though this three-week trip, it felt like it's been slow going, and good golf hasn't been rewarded and I've made silly mistakes.  Momentum hasn't quite been on my side yet.  So to play a bogey-free 65 on a Sunday is something to kind of take and fuel the upcoming run.
Q. What is your upcoming run?
JUSTIN ROSE:   My attentions turn to the Florida Swing now and then obviously doing that and trying to get sharp with Augusta in mind.
Q. So will you go back to the U.K.?
JUSTIN ROSE:   Bahamas, see my family.  That's where we're holed up at the moment.  The kids aren't in school in the U.K.  We decided to do homes schooling from there.  Obviously with me and my schedule, it's nice to have them close.  So yeah, bit of a weird world at the minute, just bounce around and doing the things that we can to sort of see one another.
So yeah, you know, positive day.  I felt like if I had made the 12-foot eagle putt on 18, 14, you never know, looking for a bit of help from Dustin and Finau, but I assume to lose by a couple.  Yeah, I should have probably given it more of a run on 18.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT