THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
May 30, 2018
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DOUG MILNE: Okay, we would like to welcome Justin Rose.  I know it's nice to be back to the spot where you got your first career PGA TOUR win here in 2010.  And you're making your 12th start total here and first since 2015 when you finished second.  So with all that said, like I said, I'm sure you're glad to be back at a place that's near and dear to your heart.
JUSTIN ROSE: Very much so.  I think the reason I haven't played the last couple of years was just sort of like little nagging injuries that kept me out for just that one week.  But certainly not through choice that I missed this tournament.  It's one that's been great to me.  I've obviously had some special memories here and getting that monkey off my back and winning my first one here, I'll always remember.  So great to be back on a good form this year.
DOUG MILNE: Coming in in great form, having collected your ninth TOUR title last week in Fort Worth.  Are you one of these people that kind of believes in momentum that you can carry from one event to the next or are you starting fresh?
JUSTIN ROSE: No, I always, I feel like when I've played well in the past I've played well in spells, in runs, in blocks, so there's no reason why it can't be a two, three, four week run.  I think can you stay fresh for that amount of time.  For me I went into the Colonial with a mindset of a block of work being last week, this week, my preparation and the U.S. Open.  So this month of work.  So obviously winning last week doesn't change that mindset really.
DOUG MILNE: Okay, we'll take a couple of questions, please.
Q. Along those lines, I think you just answered it, but how hard is it to maintain that energy?  Being right there at the end, winning it, and then having to come back and do it again.  Challenge?
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, I feel like this has been a short week so far.  I went home for two nights and came back in yesterday afternoon.  And today's felt like a bit of a rush, really out there.  And then here we are.  So I think like the next, this afternoon's going to be an important time for me just to reset, recover, rest a bit, get my energy back, and then come out tomorrow morning fresh.  But yeah, right now I think that that does, that is a challenge.  It's something I'm aware of and that's why these next few hours are kind of important for me just to shut it down.
Q. Paul McGinley was saying earlier this year that you're a player who likes to have all the information, you like to know all the information.  Is that why it seems like you're kind of hitting your peak at 37 or are you hitting your peak at 37?  Maybe you believe you were actually better five years ago or something, but --
JUSTIN ROSE: No, I believe I'm getting better at 40, so I've not hit my peak yet.
Yeah, yes and no.  I do like the science, I do like knowing everything, but I think there's a time where you need to boil it down and simplify things to go play.  I think that's what I did really well last week.  I didn't get caught up in taking any videos of my swing, I didn't get caught up in any technical thoughts, really.  I had some good feels that I went out and played with and I think that was to do with some really good work that I did with Sean the week prior, at home in the Bahamas.  So yes, being prepared with knowledge and with the science of the game is important, but you need to then take that -- to win tournaments and to play well, you never play your best golf when you're too conscious, you play it more when it's a subconscious and you're feeling it rather than thinking it.
Q. And then just to follow up on that, do you have a better understanding of your body now than -- and how to sort of stay injury free than you ever have, and who is your physio and what exactly do you do to stay healthy?
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, I think I have a -- that's been a big change in the last year, actually.  So Wentworth last year, my back was still nagging a little bit and we made some swing changes.  And in some ways I've gone a little old school with the leg action and what have you.  And we saw some, we definitely went down the biomechanics route because sometimes it's very hard to see on camera and certainly he hard to see with the naked eye, so I think sometimes when you sort of boil it down to turning you into a stick figure, can you really see how much you actually are moving.  Because sometimes the swing can, there's a lot of -- good rhythm can make up for a lot of faults, really, if -- it can mask a lot of faults.  So, yeah, we made some good changes and the understanding of that I think has been really important for me.  Last summer I didn't have the greatest summer when I was trying to implement those changes.  But it started to come around in the fall, played really well there, and I've carried it into this year.  I've had no issues from that point of view.  From an injury point of view I feel great.  So that understanding has really, really helped.  And, yeah, I've got a big team of people who work with me and I've got three or four guys who either train me or take care of my body, depending upon where I am in the world.  So, yeah, it's a great team.
Q. Jack was in here yesterday and he said that he and Arnie didn't necessarily like playing in the same group because they had their eye on each other and they usually didn't play well.  With these featured groups now you're always, you're paired or in a group with a pretty high profile guy.  Do you like that?  Do you play weather when you're with that, or is it too early in the week, can that drain you?  How does that work?
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, I think that you get used to it, really.  I think when it's, like you say, it's a pretty routine thing now that the TOUR does.  It just becomes your normal.  I think that typically when you've seen players 1, 2, 3 paired together in the past, it doesn't often add up to the spectacle that it should be.  I don't know why that is, because clearly the atmosphere and the energy changes out there too.  If you get a huge super pairing like that, the crowd flock to it and sometimes that can cause its own issues and distractions and can be tougher to focus.  But other times when you're in those big, big pairings and big situations, it zones you in.  So it depends a bit on how you feel on the day.  But I never try to pay too much attention to who I'm playing with.  Obviously when you do get paired with Tiger or someone it's difficult to ignore it completely, but I've typically, I feel like I've typically played just fine defending upon who I'm paired with.  So I try not to pay too much attention.
Q. Is there a challenge of let's say a Dustin is going against Rory, both big hitters, I mean do you pay attention to what the other guy's doing, trying to keep up maybe that's just, maybe that doesn't happen at all, but do you think there's a human nature element to it maybe?
JUSTIN ROSE: Maybe.
Q. Or for you?
JUSTIN ROSE: Maybe.  For me I try not to get caught up in any of that.  I think that's the greatest thing about golf is that the ultimate for me I see the golf course as my competitor, not really who I'm playing with.  If I can break down the golf course and go around in as few as shots as possible then that's my job.  I can accept the outcome that way much easier than if I'm going head-to-head and losing that way.
Q. So you've won --
JUSTIN ROSE: Keeps you more sane.
Q. You've won many times on TOUR.  Is there a rest ritual that you've done after winning that's given you -- maybe you've seen more success from, or is there something you like doing to get more energy going into the next week?
JUSTIN ROSE: That's a great question.  I don't think I have -- I don't win enough to have like a well-oiled plan going into the next week, but I think resetting is really important.  This golf course doesn't know what I did in Texas.  This golf course doesn't know who won last year.  It's kind of, I kind of used that analogy at Augusta this year a little bit.  I lost in a playoff there so there's that feeling of you could easily try to come back and say, right, this is the year I'm going to get over the hump or revenge or whatever.  But it's a whole different body of work.  So I kind of come into every week with that mindset and I got to tick boxes is basically my mentality.  Have I done this for my preparation, have I done that for my swing, have I done that for my putting, have I done that for my short game.  Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes.  That's all I can control.  The rest is a little bit down to chance a little bit and what other players do.
Q. You've had success here, so winning last week, does that give you any more excitement coming into this week?
JUSTIN ROSE: Definitely, I think I played well at this time of year before.  2010 I won here and I kept that momentum going a little bit for a couple of months, I felt.  So at the end of last year I kept the momentum going for a couple of months, so it would be lovely to, again, just keep that momentum up now.  So, yeah, this is the perfect golf course for me to come off the back of a win, I feel, from that point of view.
Q. So you have nine PGA TOUR wins, I guess 10 is like one of those big numbers that, I don't know, have you reflected on, okay, 10 wins, what else is there for me to do?  You've won a gold medal, you won a U.S. Open, what are your goals at this point?  What would you like to tick off before you're done?
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, I would like to double down really on all of that would kind of be nice.  I feel like I got a good amount of time left in me, I'm still motivated, I still love the game, so those are the important things, really.  If that's the case, then you can still achieve great things.  I still am curious, I think that's important as well.  I still feel like I can get better, still work hard at my game, still looking for little angles to improve.  If that's the case, then I still think that I could really still achieve some special achievements in the game.  But Hall of Fame career would be the ultimate goal, really.  But you hear -- I don't know what it takes to get in that, they say a couple majors, they say 20 wins, there's a few sort of unwritten rules, I suppose, that players measure themselves to, to try and get into that.  So I'm halfway there.
Q. What makes this game so tough between the ropes, not the travel or that type of thing, if you had to say one or two things, why golf is as difficult as it is, what would you say?
JUSTIN ROSE: Well, the club moves about 27 feet from start to finish and if you're one degree open it's like, it's a long way off at 300 yards.  So there's a science of it.  The margins are small.  There's many reasons why you can be off on a day.  It can be physiological, if your body's tight, your feels change day to day to day, just depending upon how your body feels.  So it's not like you can have one swing thought that locks you in and you're good for a year.  That same swing thought may not resonate a couple months from now.  So it's always evolving, it's how you adapt I think daily is really, really important.  So yeah, it's never, you never really face the same shot twice.  Greens are different, each read is different, each wind direction is different.  If you play a great round one day you got a new set of pins the next day, different wind direction the next day.  Every day.  So you can never really fall into a routine of comfort.  It's not an indoor sport where you're playing on the same parameters.  It's not darts.  You can kind of perfect a sport like that.  Whereas this, there's too many variables.
Q. Is that what makes it so enjoyable to you?
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah.
Q. And maddening?
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, absolutely.  People say, okay, what, which course would you like to play for the rest of your life.  And I would probably choose a links course for that exact reason that it can play so differently day-to-day.
Q. Looking again mentally, how many thoughts can you process between the ropes when you're playing a round to where it's not information overload and how has that matured as your career has advanced?
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, good question.  So I think a lot of -- I remember I won at the BMW in Chicago in 2011 and I played with a bunch of friends the week before and we were at a golf course and there were no yardage markers on the golf course whatsoever.  So I had to have a local caddie and the local caddie just gave me one number to the pin and I had to trust it.  And there was no reference anywhere on the golf course to question it.  So I heard 137 and I went with 137 and played really good that day.  And it made me think about how I've been doing it on TOUR.  And that 137 might have been, you got 120 to the front, 17 on, 137, that's six behind it to the back edge, there's 143 to the back, five over the ridge, 132.  And I'm like, whoa.  So I started to play with one number and we started to adjust that number based on wind and heat and temperature.  So, yeah, I think that the last few years I've tried to simplify it as best I can, which I think helps with commitment, really.  You start hearing too many numbers, it can get you way in between clubs too easily.  And then, swing thought wise, I feel like I can have four or five swing thoughts, as long as they are embodied into a feel.  If I verbalized it to you it would sound like four or five swing thoughts, but when I actually feel it, it's one feel.  So I hope that answers your question.
DOUG MILNE: All right, well Justin as always we appreciate your time.  Best of luck this week.
JUSTIN ROSE: Thank you, guys, appreciate it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT