TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 3, 2017
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  No dropped shots, how pleased are you with the opening two days here?  
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, somewhat pleased for sure.  I think today was a bit more of a struggle.  I didn't play particularly well.  Short game kept me in it a few times early on the front nine and on the back nine couldn't quite capitalise on the couple of chances I did have.   
To be honest the last few holes are pretty tricky here.  You've got to play good golf the last few holes coming in.   
 Q.  Quite a few double-bogeys out there today, as well.  To keep bogeys off the card obviously is all-important.  
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, absolutely.  The less mistakes you make, the more patient you can be and the less birdies you have to make, too.   
Obviously I kind of feel like I haven't -- I really don't had one hole where I dropped a shot in 36 holes which on a golf course like this is pretty good going.  It's quite tricky.   
Obviously I'm staying with it mentally, especially after a win last week, it shows I'm not making too many mental errors, which I'm pleased about.  But kind of waiting for a hot run, really, and try and challenge on the weekend.   
 Q.  Obviously Nicolas Colsaerts is clear at the moment, but as you found last week, that doesn't always matter going into the final day of a tournament, let alone going into the weekend.  
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, for sure.  I've always done that.  I've always looked at a leader and if they go ahead and run clear, then good luck to them.  They have had an incredible week and played good golf.   
But I always look at where is the pack, where the field.  If the leader gives you a little help, then you've got to kind of -- that's your Plan B.  Sometimes the Plan B works.   
 Q.  Fantastic conditions here.  Barely a breath of wind out here.  Almost perfect golfing conditions.  
JUSTIN ROSE: I'm not sure if that's going to change.  I did see some rain creep into the forecast at some point this weekend, but it's been absolutely gorgeous the first couple of days here.   
 Q.  Do you feel like this is a continuation of last week?  
JUSTIN ROSE: I think so.  Obviously coming in here, to only had one hole where I've dropped a shot all week shows I'm not making mental errors, or not making too many of them, anyway.   
Today I didn't actually play particularly well.  My short game kept me in it the first few holes and on the back nine, I had a couple chances to make birdie and wasn't able to capitalise.   
To be honest the last few holes aren't birdie holes.  16,  17, 18 are quite strong, so closing out with pars is all the course gave me today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT