WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 29, 2017
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What does it feel like?  
JUSTIN ROSE: It's unbelievable.  Obviously we all know the position DJ was in, and I think today was the kind of day that the leader probably didn't want -- well, you want a six-shot lead any time, but this is the kind of day where that kind of swing is possible.   
I shot 5-under in tough conditions and he had to play good golf to keep it around par today, and obviously he made a few mistakes.  It was really tricky out there, and obviously I played one of the best back nines I've played in forever.  To shoot 31 on the back to come through, saved my best till last.   
 Q.  Especially after 8 and 9.  
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, that was unbelievable.  I was going along quite nicely and 3-putted from -- a careless 3-putt at 8 and then 9 was a total brain meltdown.  We were thinking 190 to the hole.   
I pitched it way too far down that green but I shook it off.  I drove it in the bunker and I just regrouped.  I kind of played match play against myself coming in.  I told myself I was 4-down and could I beat the golf course coming in, and it's incredible how that's what we did.   
 Q.  You're 10th on the Order of Merit.  What does this event do for you coming up?  
JUSTIN ROSE: It's going to do a lot for me.  Obviously a ton of points here.  It's going to probably vault me into the top three, I would imagine.  I'm sure I probably don't go past Tommy; probably maybe behind Sergio, but kind of gives me a realistic chance now; if I was to have a special end to the season with Turkey and Dubai..  I've got a chance.   
 Q.  Sum up what it feels like to win.  
JUSTIN ROSE: It's been a long time since I've won, or at least it feels like that.  I guess it's actually -- well, I've won every year since 2010, if you include the Olympics last year; that was my only win.  This is only win in 2017.  Left it late this year but it feels amazing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT