ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 28, 2017
Justin Rose
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It came down to that final hole.  You guys needed birdie.  Take me through that hole and how difficult, especially after going into the water, Justin.
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, I mean, to be honest, we fought really hard to give ourselves a chance to make the cut.  At the time we knew we had a lot of work to do on the back nine, and we did our best to make the cut.  He had a chance at 16, I had a chance at 17.  I kind of had a feeling it was going to come down to 18.  Both of us hit it in the water, which actually summed up the week, how we played 18.  Yeah, disappointing.
Q. Henrik, we've seen such great chemistry between you two, such great team success.  In your mind what didn't click the last two days?
HENRIK STENSON: Well, it wasn't that far for sure.  We played well in the beginning yesterday, had a bad stretch in the middle yesterday, and then we got back a couple of birdies, but it left us quite a few shots back coming into today, and it's difficult scoring today because it's pretty breezy out there.  Yeah, I just couldn't make a putt, really.  Off to a good start playing-wise, but just couldn't make birdies early and then we had a lot of work to do later on.
Q. I know that you're frustrated you're not playing this weekend, but is there anybody that you'll keep your eye on throughout this weekend?
JUSTIN ROSE: I hate every second of watching everyone else make it through.  (Laughter.)
Q. What did you guys make of the first two days here and how the event is kind of transitioning into this?
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, I think obviously it's been fun.
HENRIK STENSON: It's been fun.  Had a good time for the two days there, but we just struggled to make enough birdies.  Like I said, we started off pretty good yesterday, and then had a rough stretch in the middle and then finished off all right, but we shot even yesterday so a lot of teams playing a lot better, scoring a lot better than that yesterday.  We knew we had to at least shoot 6- or 7-under today to move on to the weekend, and in these conditions, if things aren't working out good enough, then it's not for granted to go out and shoot 7-under par even in better ball around here in gusty conditions.  We had the chances, but just didn't make enough of that.
Q. Conditions aside, were you guys surprised, I guess, given that you've had so much success as a team in the past that it just didn't go as well?
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, sure, it was surprising, no doubt.  We were hopeful of much better than that.  Speaking to a few of the guys, you really get into the swing of this tournament, you get the rhythm going and you make the putts and then everything feels fun and sort of you're vibing.  For us, we kept fighting it, we kept fighting the momentum, and that's really what killed us, and then it kind of puts the pressure on the birdie putts when you do have them because suddenly they become critical, they're not just sort of bonuses where you're rolling forward.  Yeah, we just got on the wrong side of momentum this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT