AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 11, 2017
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (No microphone.)
JUSTIN ROSE: I played four or five rounds with him.  We played some rounds in L.A. a couple weeks ago, and he's been working on his game, a bit unhappy when he's struggling a little bit.  And when you get a day like today at Pebble Beach and it's the third round, which is kind of like the final round for the amateurs, so to speak, to sort of bring his A game and play some clutch shots and hopefully, finish birdie, birdie, birdie, to hopefully make the amateur cut, that's what we're hoping for.  We were 16-under and thinking that we got a great chance.  So, that will kind of be a story for him and certainly, me as well.
Q. How big was that fish that you two guys caught and what kind of fish was it back then that you tweeted out?
JUSTIN ROSE: Oh, that was a wahoo.  A decent one.  I think it was like a 40-pounder or something.  I thought he was going to have to tap out, but he eventually got it in the boat.
Q. Were you Snapchatting on 7 tee, is that what you were doing?
JUSTIN ROSE: No, no, I just took a picture.  I'll send it to them because, obviously, Kevin is his buddy.  I just thought it was a really cool pic, because, obviously, his caddie has Timberlake in the back and obviously, the 7th hole at Pebble, it's a great photo op.
Q. It's a very artsy photo.
JUSTIN ROSE: A little bit, yeah.  I don't know.  I don't normally grab my phone out, but it just happened to be one of those moments.
Q. How did you meet in the first place?
JUSTIN ROSE: In Orlando one time.  He was just down there, he's got a someone he knows at Lake Nona and I was there hanging out on the range and just spent a little bit of time together.  And then down in the Bahamas a little bit as well.  So, sort of the odd, frequent meeting and then, obviously, hit it off and just decided to play this.  So, yeah, kind of getting to know each other better and better year over year.
Q. Is your connection with him what brought you back to or here to Pebble, you hadn't played this tournament?
JUSTIN ROSE: I think so.  It was a tournament I've always wanted to play.  And then I guess we got spoiled last year with the weather and I thought man this is great tournament and I want to do this every year.  And after two days this week I thought, I'm never going to come back here again.  And then after today, I'm coming back next year.  So it's kind of, you got to roll with the punches here, I guess, at Pebble and in this area in general.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT