OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 11, 2016
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What did you hit (for a hole-in-one on the 4th hole)? 
JUSTIN ROSE: 7‑iron, 187? 189? I was going to hit 8‑iron and he told me 7‑iron and I went with him for a change, worked out. Yeah, Fooch can have that one. 

Q. You didn't see that going in, did you? 
JUSTIN ROSE: It was one of those, almost like an infinity edge where the pin wasn't where the cup sets and where the back edge falls off the green. So it was either in or it was off the back wedge. And the way reaction was from the few people up around the green, figured that it went in and not over the back. 

Q. Overall, must be delighted with that. Ideal start today?
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, I think if you look at the leaderboard, loads are in contention. I always knew it was going to be the kind of golf course that was going to have a big spread, because it's not an easy golf course but there are a lot of opportunities if that makes sense. There's quite a big sort of‑‑ there's a lot of easy holes and a lot of really tough holes, so it's always going to spread out the field. 
Obviously 8‑under par is an incredible round of golf. I always like to take the leader out of it in our minds because you never know how they are going to continue, and right there with the rest of them. A bunch of guys in contention, and perfect start. 
Obviously you see some of the other sports, and you realise that you can't win a Gold Medal on the first day‑‑ you have swimming heats and elimination rounds, and it's all about keeping pace and keeping it in until the time comes.

Q. Surprised to see the level of the crowds? 
JUSTIN ROSE: It was really fun. I think obviously still lower of numbers of crowds than we are used to but a lot more of an energetic, passionate crowds, pocket of fans, people more patriotic, people out there with flags and wearing their various team colours and what‑have‑you. You feel like it's something unique and different and you feel like you're representing not just Team GB but the nation, as well. 

Q. Patrick and Danny Willett have both said that the guys that decided not to come are missing out. Do you feel the same way?
JUSTIN ROSE: This is great competition. This is what it is. You've just got to look around at the scale of the whole Olympic Games, and what a big deal it is. This is competition at the highest level and that's what I live for. I think that, yeah, from that point of view, yeah, they are missing out on a great competition.

Q. Any comparison to The Ryder Cup, not competition‑wise, but desire to make the team? Do you see in future years people wanting to add that to their C.V.? 
JUSTIN ROSE: It's got an element of Ryder Cup out there with crowd sort of pushing you on and really supporting you and urging you on. I think when you're at a regular PGA TOUR event, you might be the favourite player of a handful of people or whatever it might be. But there's a lot more incentive for people to come out and support you this week. I think there definitely is a lot more‑‑ it gives it a very special feel. You know, once every four years, I think it's so unique. Obviously I'm all for it and have been all for it. 

Q. Any more activity for other sports now that the golf has started? 
JUSTIN ROSE: I'm just into golf mode now. I did all I wanted to do. I wanted to experience the Olympics. I had a great first five days in Rio, and that was the goal. I do now what I do for every big tournament. I sort of get into my own little cocoon and prepare as best I can. 

Q. First hole‑in‑one in the Olympics, does that mean something special?
JUSTIN ROSE: Definitely one of those icing on the cake moments, when you're the first to do anything, no one can ever take that away from you, whatever it is. That was definitely a cool moment. 
You might have overheard me saying, it was quite a roller coaster start to the tournament, really, for me. I was in trouble at No.2, in a hazard and sort of managed to hack it out of some sand on to the green and make the putt for par, and then birdied No. 3. 
And holing one at 4, which obviously was one of those hole‑in‑ones that I was probably aiming just right of the pin. It was a lovely golf shot and landed on line and disappeared and went in. There's always an element of luck to it. You can chalk it up as a good hole‑in‑one. 
Then managed to birdie No. 5 off the back of that, as well. It was a very exciting start. Still couldn't really settle into the round. I just felt that because of the wind, and there's some tough holes on this golf course. I just felt that holing out around the cup was tricky today. The greens are a little bit quicker. 
Yeah, it was kind of a day where you are on edge the whole day a little bit. And that obviously might be just the fact that it's the Olympic Games, as well, and something slightly different. 

Q. When was your last hole‑in‑one? 
JUSTIN ROSE: Might have been a Pro‑Am at The Barclays a couple years ago. In competition, might go back quite a few years to the Greenbrier‑‑ the Chrysler Classic, back in the day. 

Q. Most memorable moment?
JUSTIN ROSE: Definitely. Won a car that time but this is definitely‑‑ (laughter).

Q. This beats winning a car. 
JUSTIN ROSE: Definitely, this is way more bragging rights to this one.

Q. Having experienced the Olympic atmosphere now, do you think maybe the guys who have stayed away might regret it, or will you be telling them how special it is, how different it is, unique? 
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, I think so, because it's not just‑‑ well, it is just about the four days of golf ultimately, because we are all here to try and be a Gold Medalist, and if not, a Medalist, and that's what it boils down to. 
But there is so much more to this week than just the golf. I just think the camaraderie amongst the different teams and the camaraderie in the athletes village and just the bigger scale of the Olympics, it is such a huge event; that if you have the opportunity to be a part of it. 
Should golf be a part of it? Yeah, why not. Does it need to be a part of it? Probably not. We'll go on, we'll survive. But for the opportunity to be a part of it, why won't you take it, and I think that's the way I see it. It's an opportunity for golf and something that we can all have a lot of fun around.

Q. Can you describe the first tee, wearing the Team GB and the Union Jack? 
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, that was the different thing. Only The Ryder Cup do you play really, that I can remember, where you have got that much patriotic support, and that's what made it so special today.

Q. How good was the course? How high do you rate it?
JUSTIN ROSE: I think it's a very good golf course. I think Rickie‑and I were talking coming down the 18th, it's a fun course that play. And we don't often say that with the wind this heavy. I think Gil did a great job of understanding that this type of wind condition was possible and likely, and he designed it with enough room, but yet made it challenging enough where you are having to really think about angles. For me, it was very good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT