THE 145TH OPEN
July 17, 2016
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you sum it up?
JUSTIN ROSE: Summing it up, I would say I played well.  Back to full health, which is the exciting part for me.  Lots of good signs.  Really felt like I actually played a lot better than maybe the result is going to turn out for me.  So as a player, you can kind of take a lot of confidence from that.
Q. (Inaudible).
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, you had to commit to shots.  Obviously, anytime you have to send it out wide and play for the win, you're sort of seeing what a neutral ball flight will do if you move it.  So obviously then if you cut it on the wind, it's going to exacerbate it or if you double cross yourself.  You need to be spot on with, one, your visualization, and, two, your execution.  So poor shots get magnified, and from that point of view that's why I feel like I had good control of my ball for the week, and that makes me feel confident that the game's in good shape going forward.
Q. (Inaudible).
JUSTIN ROSE: It's very difficult.  I think you've just got to know that you're striking it cleanly.  That's the most important thing.  I think I'm pretty good at trapping it down.  I have my checklist of things to do when I'm trying to hit a low shot.  But I would say that the range has been downwind pretty much most of the week.  So from that point of view, you can't get really a true read of what feels like to knock one down.
Q. (Inaudible).
JUSTIN ROSE: If the rain offered you that, sure.  If it was off to the right, I tried to hit some shots out to the right to try to play more into the wind.  If I can create a bit of an angle on the range, I've always tried to do that.  But this week for the most part, especially today, you're just kind of warming up.  You hit the ball down breeze, you feel like you're striking it cleanly and then move on.  But if the range was to offer you a double-sided range, the players tend to like hitting the ball into the wind because it magnifies the spin on the ball and gives you a bit more feedback.
Q. What do you make of Andrew Johnston's performance and the kind following he has?
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, it's great.  It really is cool.  Obviously it likened, Boo Weekley kind of had it in the States.  He's such a fun character to be around.  And when the crowd latch onto someone like that, it's cool to play with him.  He's got his chant, "Beef", and few players have had that through the years, Luke, and Kooch, and it's fun.
I've only gotten to know him in the last couple of weeks.  Akron was the first time I'd really met him two weeks ago, and just very open, very warm character.  He obviously plays with his heart on his sleeve and people really enjoy that.
Q. (Inaudible).  The U.S. PGA are you excited about going back there?
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, that's what I'm most excited about this week is how I feel.  My previous couple of tournaments I played Akron and the U.S. Open that I've struggled to get fit for, but I was happy to be fit for and at least be playing.  I didn't really finish any round particularly strong.  I felt when I came off I was fatigued.  But I really feel good now.  All four days I've come off and I could have gone straight to the first tee and played again.  I feel very comfortable and confident with how my body's feeling.  So it's nice to be out of that phase of talking about my back, and I can now focus on performance and I'm feeling good.
Q. Is there a course out there that would suit you?
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, Baltusrol should be a golf course I can do very well on.  It's a classic.  I've been there before, but haven't actually played the tournament.  The last time on the PGA there, I was actually first reserve.  So I played a couple of practise rounds but didn't get into the tournament.  My recollections are somewhat vague.  But Fooch has been there to walk it.  He's pretty prepared and he thinks it's a course we can do well on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT