THE 145TH OPEN
July 14, 2016
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JUSTIN ROSE: The first seven holes for the whole week is going to be as easy as we had it.  I was really conscious about I knew I couldn't force it, but I wanted to be very sharp going out.  I actually did.  I played really well.  Just kind of hit a couple putts that lipped out, birdied the par-5.  Felt like I should have birdied 6.  Suddenly I'm only 1-under through six, where I felt like I played great.  Walking to the first tee today I knew it was important to get off to a good start.
Made up for a bit on the back nine.  But tomorrow will be a different challenge.  But you're going to have to flip that switch is what I was about to say, I suppose.  And realise that some of the birdie holes are going to flip-flop between the front nine and the back nine.
Q. (Inaudible).
JUSTIN ROSE: Typical me, played the back nine in lower shots than front nine.  Really, what to play the back nine lower than the front?  Yeah.  But like I said, I played really well today all in all.  So the score didn't quite reflect how well I played, but I'm certainly happy with the start.
Q. (Inaudible).
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, definitely the best I've played for a while.  Really struggled in Akron, hit the ball sideways for the most part and today had it under control.  Drove the ball really well.  Adrian from TaylorMade made me a new driver with a touch more loft on it.  My driver was at 7.5 degrees, so I felt with the left-to-right breeze I was having a hard time.  So, yeah, that was an adjustment I made this week and it worked really well.
Q. What was it like to wake up for the first round of the day?
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, well, I thought all the lights were on in the house when I woke up, I realised it's actually the sunshine.  We've rented this house for two weeks and literally I woke up and the whole house looked different.  It was literally the first bit of sun we've had.
Q. (Inaudible).
JUSTIN ROSE: But obviously, let's see how tomorrow pans out.  I think hopefully I think everybody's going to get good weather today, and we'll just see tomorrow.  There's a chance that one half of the draw will do better than the other, but we'll see.  It's going to be a tough day tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT