THE SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SOFTBANK INVESTMENT ADVISERS
February 6, 2021
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Talk us through how you feel coming off that round of golf, 2-under par.
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, listen, 2-under is decent out there but I had a little bit of an opportunity missed.  I just noticed the leaderboard, DJ has given a few back at the.  Kind of day where you think, if I snuck a couple more out of it towards the end, could have put myself in a a great position going into tomorrow.  All is not lost.  I'm right there in that chasing pack.  If I put a special round of golf together, you can still get the job done.
Q. Overall sense with the players coming off so far has been one of frustration.  Do you think that's because the rain has impacted the course?  What has been the difference in the playing conditions?
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, I finished off my round, my second round this morning and the greens were incredibly slow after the rainy and think they managed to get out there and cut them and roll them between sessions.  I struggled early in my round.  Three-putted the third hole knocking it a long way past because it this morning in mind.
But I actually thought the greens rolled really well today.  Like Tyrrell said, once you get your eye in, you get confidence, but they are the kind of greens that if you miss the hole -- it's the type of golf course where you get a lot of birdie opportunities from ten, twelve feet, and you're not going to make all of of them so the frustration can build a little bit, but you need to take your obvious chances when they come.
Q. In the last couple weeks, your Sunday round has been your highest scoring round.  How will you head into tomorrow and what will you do different to make sure that's not the case?
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, I mean, Dubai was disappointing.  Obviously Abu Dhabi, I was never in the tournament.  I experimented with a couple things, changed putter; used it as a competitive practise round.  Dubai was disappointing.  Certainly not dwell on it.
Typically Sundays, historically play well.  So it will be a good confidence builder for me tomorrow.  Obviously probably not thinking about winning tomorrow but if you get off it a good start, then that's exactly what happens.  Trying to build momentum in my game and that's what the whole trip has been about, so to finish the round on a positive will be important for me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT