WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 6, 2016
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JUSTIN ROSE: Obviously anytime, especially a day like today where bogeys were easy to make, kept it clean the whole day and to bogey 18 was frustrating.  Poor second shot but picked up some mud off the tee and it's not really the hole you fancy mud on your ball, which sort of made me err five or eight yards further right with my second shot than I otherwise would have.  You know, just didn't turn it over.  That puts you in the rough, which is always unpredictable.  Donald was making a racket there on 18, and the whole finish just felt tricky to me coming in.  I was delighted to finish strong.  I didn't want to finish the tournament over par, take pride in that always.  It's a good finish.   
 Q.  You said bogeys were easy to make but birdies were not, but you made it look easy?  
JUSTIN ROSE: The start was the key for me.  Birdied 3 and 4, I think that's the meat of the golf course trite there, they are playing very, very tough, those holes.  To get 2-under through four made me feel like I had a chance.   
There were some other birdie holes on the front nine I was able to take advantage of and then I played the two par 5s really well, which are both playing incredibly long but I was able to hit good drives, good 3-woods.  Took my chances where I could, but 13 and 14 are playing incredibly difficult.  I would say there are four or five really tough holes out there today, and then there's a lot of crosswind holes which are hard to make birdies on.   
The greens have fooled me all week.  They look quick but they are really not.  The amount of times I had a downgrain-looking putt and I would leave it short in the middle, I felt like pin placements were a little tough today.  They really tucked them in the corners.  Really hard to get close to flagsticks today.  But for me, that's been difficult because I haven't read the greens this week as well.  Typically the leaders are doing something better than you are, and that's probably reading the greens.  I played with Dustin Johnson the first couple of days and I've never seen him putt that well, so he's obviously not having any problem with the speed or the read.   
Just look for the leaders to try to keep it clean through 3 and 4 and 13 and 14 and there's the odd birdie chance from there.  But it's going to be about not making mistakes today.  That should get it done, especially for Rory.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT