DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 22, 2015
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What do you think of this week after some problems yesterday and a lovely finish today?
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, it's been sort of problems all week really, but sort of battled along, resilient.  I think I had 23 birdies in the week which is Italy I would certainly have taken and one I would have thought would have put me at the top end of the leaderboard but too many mistakes this week for whatever reason.  I played the par 3s poorly but did many other good things, as well.
Yeah, it was just a little inconsistent this week, which is opposite to how the year has been anyway.  It was nice to finish strong today and bounce back from 6-over from yesterday with 6-under today.  Probably not going to make a big different in the grand schemes of this tournament for me but at the same time, it's the final event of the season and you always want to finish on a high, so I was very pleased with that round today.
Q. It's been a nice tidy year, hasn't it?
JUSTIN ROSE: It has.  Played really well in the majors.  The year is pretty much is built around that for me.  Focused hard on them April through September, or August, and got some good results out of majors.  Contended in three of them and obviously won the UBS Hong Kong at the end of the year which is nice.
Q. S and you've got one thing coming up which you can't miss because it's pretty much on your doorstep?
JUSTIN ROSE: One more event, the Hero World Challenge which is obviously Tiger's event.  It's at my home course in the Bahamas this year.  It's going to be fun.  It's going to be a new venue for the boys.  It's probably a bit of a holiday atmosphere, going to play golf in the Bahamas.
Not sure I have that much of a local knowledge to be honest with you.  Only played the course about five or six times myself.  You can tell I play a lot of golf when I'm at home.  It's going to be a fun week to have all the boys on my doorstep.
Q. Thoughts on Paul Casey deciding announcement not to join The European Tour?
JUSTIN ROSE: He's only set a stall out in America and seems to be playing well and enjoying it.  I think especially with the regulations now, I think five tournaments, you can find those if you're willing for sure.  It's obviously a commitment to play those five.  I think Ryder Cup is probably a big enough carrot where it warrants that, and he's a player that's going to be missed on the team.  Yeah, it's disappointing.
Q. Strange as someone who is 24th in the world, and he would have been part of that discussion.
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, I would think he would be a lock on the team.  He's a very, very good player and a great match-play player and I can only see him improving his World Ranking.  He's playing very solid golf and I expect Paul to have a big year next year.
You know, could be another situation where he's in the Top-10 in the world and not playing Ryder Cup like he was last time, and I think obviously when Monty didn't pick him in 2010, I think that's left a bit of a scar and maybe from that point of view, when you put so much into The Ryder Cup and feel like you should be on the team and you get let down like that, maybe that's harbouring some of his decision making to this day.
I don't know, yeah, he'll be missed on the team because he's a great player.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT