DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 20, 2015
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 17 and 18, generally the story of the week?
JUSTIN ROSE: Story of the week actually so far.  Yesterday six birdies, five bogeys and today again another bunch of birdies.  The front nine, particularly, I was playing well and not making anything of it.  Missed a bunch of short putts around 5, 6 and 7.  Was sort of having to work hard to not get frustrated and then everything turned around on the back nine, shooting 5-under par and gets me right back in it.
But yeah, a good-looking shot into 17 to be honest.  Wind gusted up.  We had it flat calm all morning and the wind has just started to pick up, so I think we got a little caught out there and couldn't quite see it on the tee ball just stood up on me and went in the water, but nice to bounce back with a birdie at the last.
Q. Is it the kind of golf course that makes flawless golf quite difficult?
JUSTIN ROSE: To be honest with you, the fairways are wide enough, and if you're rolling your irons, there's no reason why you should be making as many bogeys as I am.  Hopefully if I can keep making the birdies and clean up the other stuff over the weekend, I'll be in great shape.
It is the kind of course that if you do short-side yourself, it's very difficult to get up-and-down.  The fourth hole today, for example, I hit the front left bunker and just had a very, very tough bunker shot, could only get it to 15 feet.  It's a very strategic course.
Q. You have been on your game recently.  As a top golfer when you're on a run of form, do you sit back and enjoy and let that run of good form run its course, or do you tweak and if I hadal and do things to try and maintain it?
JUSTIN ROSE: You tweak and you fiddle, because yesterday evening, I hit some balls after my round and was going left and right.  I guess the old pro in me just said, all right, come back tomorrow and see if we can figure it out then.
To be fair, Sean had put a lot of thought into it overnight and we just worked a bit on my setup.  I've been driving the ball very well, which I think you can do off your right side.  And I was maybe hitting my irons too much on my right side, so we kind of got a little more pressed forward into my left side and got my compression back and started hitting the irons a lot better today.
Hit a lot of shots close to the flag today, which is what I haven't been doing last few days.  I have been playing well but you're always looking for more.
Q. The old pro; is that what you really feel like?
JUSTIN ROSE: I feel it.  I don't know if that's a compliment or a disparaging remark, but definitely feel it sometimes.
Q. Must be huge satisfaction with the birdie at the last to make sure you're in a tidy position here?
JUSTIN ROSE: Absolutely.  It was nice to get to 7-under.  I saw when I walked off 18, I was one of three guys at 7-under on the leaderboard.  Promptly made bogey there at 17 so I said to Fooch, well, at least the lads saw my name up there briefly today.
He was like, come on, birdie the last and get it straight back up there.  And that's what we were able to do.  It was nice to get over that bogey pretty quick.  Great day.  My whole frame for the day was the 71 yesterday enabled us to go out early today, so I tried to use that to my advantage.
Obviously the leaders are going to play in a bit more wind this afternoon which is never easy, and I try to say that if you shoot a good round, yesterday, 71 put me in a position today early enough where I played most of my round without some wind.  I just wanted to capitalise upon that.
Q. Not sure if the wind is picking up as it did on the opening day but certainly everybody is conscious of the way that things transform across the course of the day here in Dubai?
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, the wind seems to pick up and it seems to switch directions, too.  I'm hoping for the old blow this afternoon, but I think the forecast is maybe windy tomorrow, so that should again challenge us all and throw up another different set of goals and circumstances.
But obviously today was just a good round of golf in terms of getting me back into the tournament.  Not leaving myself too much work to do on the weekend.
Q. Come what may with those leaders out there at the moment, do you feel nicely involved; you've set the foundation for a good weekend?
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, I'm obviously anticipating being four, five back potentially, but at least that's not eight, nine.  If you're four or five back, you still feel like you're in it.  I'm still going to have -- as is everybody.  Whoever wins the tournament is going to have to play great golf over the weekend but at least I'm in a position where great golf will get rewarded.
Q. Still see a 62 out there?
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, absolutely.  Today, what did I shoot, 66, and I felt like I left a bunch out there really.  Yeah, I can see it.  Just doing it's the hard thing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT