BMW MASTERS
November 12, 2015
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Given your misgivings at the start you had at this event last year, I take it this is very nice to get off to almost a flyer this time?  
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, absolutely.  I think I started on the back nine last year and I was like 4-over through four I think.  From that point onwards, made a bunch of birdies and put myself in contention to win the tournament.  Had a little bit more of a smooth start today, 1-under through the first four.  We celebrated that.   
I played okay today.  Only 1-under through 11, though, and I could see a lot of the other guys were going low today and tried to urge myself to sort of get it to 3- or 4-under for the round, and actually beat my own expectations and finished 5-under for the round.  Very happy with how I played the last seven or eight holes, and it was a good day's work in the end.   
 Q.  I take it you see the opportunities, despite the fact that the course is playing long and it's a bit damp out there.  
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, if you hit good shots, you can still make birdies.  The pin placements on these greens, a lot of them are in little bowls, so if you hit a good iron shot, often it works towards the win.  I think that's something I can get better at tomorrow, actually, is striking my irons.  We hit them out of the middle today, so therefore, my distance control was a little bit off.   
But drove the ball well, so I gave myself plenty of opportunities to make birdies.  Just maybe being a bit sharp with the iron play would lead to a good score.  But putted well, so did a lot of good things today obviously and it's probably a fair result.   
 Q.  Obviously we saw you playing so very well in Hong Kong.  Is this a case of continuing that or just having a little bit of a break has brought you back a tiny bit?  
JUSTIN ROSE: No, any time you shoot 5-under it's a good round.  You can't have it all go your way every day, but I'd call that a good, solid opening round, consistent golf.  Those are the things you can't control.  Sometimes when you've got 8- , 9-under par, those are the things you can't control.  You get maybe a lucky bounce or you hole a couple of extra putts that aren't normally in the round.  But I think today was a good, steady performance.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT