UBS HONG KONG OPEN
October 25, 2015
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JUSTIN ROSE: Lucas played incredible golf.  It was the first time I had the chance to play with him.  Was thoroughly impressed, not just his game but his temperament and how he is as a person.  When you separate yourself from the field like we did, it's probably a tough one for him to lose.  But he didn't lose it; just both of us played incredibly well and separated from the field.
Very happy to get the job done.  Had a chance to win in Napa last week.  I was tied for the lead going down the 10th hole and let that one flitter away a little bit.  I wanted to hang onto this one.
Q. Almost let this one slip with a two-stroke swing and a lovely birdie later on?
JUSTIN ROSE: Lucas hit a great shot into No. 9 and I 3-putted from nowhere.  Around the turn, just suddenly started to feel uncomfortable but really pulled myself together and hit a lot of good putts coming in.  From 12 onwards, I scared the hole pretty much on every putt.  Obviously the 3-putt at 18, I would say is acceptable in the circumstances.  It's an incredibly tough pin.  TV probably doesn't do it justice.  On the first putt if I hit it too firm and a little bit low, I would say there's a chance you're in the water.  All the wrong things are going through my head at that point.  But obviously when you have a two-shot lead, you just want to get it done.
Q. Where did that chicken dance come from?
JUSTIN ROSE: I don't know.  Obviously I wanted to make that second putt.  You always want to finish in style.  It was only ever going to drop in the front door.  And to be honest with you, when it's that severe, you don't exactly know how quick it is but I certainly wasn't going to be touching the back of the hole with that putt.
Q. You came wanting to move up The Race to Dubai and you've done that.  It bodes well for The Final Series and Jumeirah Golf Estates going there, doesn't it?
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, absolutely.  Dubai, especially, is a tournament I've played well at in the past.  I've had a couple second-place finishes there.  I'd love to break that duck, as well.  And if you win in Dubai, you've got a great opportunity to wrap things up, so I'm looking forward to the next few weeks.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT