UBS HONG KONG OPEN
October 22, 2015
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What are your thoughts starting on 5-under par?
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, really happy with the start.  More happy with how I played today.  Really happy with how I swung the club, struck the ball, how patient I played.  Good strategy out there, and got to grips with the golf course, really, for the first time.
So yeah, all in all a very good day.
Q. Strategy means putting the ball in the right place, giving yourselves the opportunities?
JUSTIN ROSE: Exactly, and I hit a lot of 3-irons off the tee today and struck all of them well and put myself in position.  Hit a lot more fairways today than in the Pro-Am, so felt a different course.
I was able to get some momentum with my iron play, and actually hit a lot of good putts today that didn't go in.  Felt like there were more chances out there but very happy to take the ones I did.
Q. Spoke to you at The Open Championship when you clarified that you would be coming here.  Been looking forward to it?  Is it one of those special places?
JUSTIN ROSE: Very much so.  It's great to have UBS back on board and it's a quality tournament.  It's one of my favourite cities in the world, so a great place to be.  It's also a good golf course.  It's a unique golf course compared to some of the other ones that we play in China which are more of the modern-style courses.  It's a really fun track to play.
Q. And you've had a little chance to look around now, because you had a corporate day didn't you, before, and had the opportunity to see some other things.
JUSTIN ROSE: I had to kill a weekend here in Hong Kong, so obviously got up to no good and had a few drinks and had a good time and saw a bit of the other side of the city that we often don't get a chance to when we are focused playing tournaments.  But it's obviously a very vibrant place, good food and good restaurants and looking forward to coming back.
Q. That does help in the enjoyment of the place, doesn't it.  It makes you think of the fun times when coming back.  It's a sort of aid to the confidence, if you like?
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, absolutely.  I think I always enjoy tournaments where we're able to stay in a city.  So often, especially playing on the PGA TOUR, you're out in the suburbs and you might be so-called playing a tournament in Chicago, for example, but you don't really get to see downtown Chicago the whole week because you're 40, 50 minutes outside.
This week, I enjoy staying downtown and get to sort of get a feel for the place you're in.
Q. As you're a good mate and teammate, what are your thoughts on Ian Poulter and his arrival here late in the day?
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, obviously a Herculean effort.  I think he was battling passport visas and all sorts of crazy stuff.  I noticed he was kind of trying to have matchsticks in his eyes on the back nine.  I don't know what did he finish up at -- 3-under?  That's a good day's work.  I actually had breakfast with him at the hotel this morning and was hearing all about it.  I know he's been up since 4.00am, so that's a very good round of golf.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT