THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2015
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JUSTIN ROSE: You feel like you're trying to hang in as best you can.  Ultimately bogeying the last is the one thing that leaves a sour taste, but other than that I hung in as best I could.Q. You hit some decent shots on the back (inaudible)?JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, those bunkers are amazing how they catch you.  Yeah, it was just hard coming in.  I didn't feel like I did anything wrong, really.  I had two three-putts, I suppose, three-putt on 18 and three-putt on 10.  Those are like the little errors that you can't afford to make.  But for the most of it, it was okay.  I think if I'd have finished 3-under I would have been delighted, to come off really, really positive about the round.  71 obviously no disaster, but I felt like there was a few left out there.Q. Even though conditions tomorrow are supposed to be treacherous do you feel like (inaudible)?JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, absolutely.  I don't know what tomorrow holds.  Quite clearly we were at a two or three-shot disadvantage to the morning field, and I just hope that the morning -- it's going to be tough in the morning, and I think it's going to be really tough in the afternoon.  Just who knows if it evens out through 36 holes.Q. What was it like playing with Nick today?JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, good.  He kept grinding.  He kept working at it.  Obviously it was a tough round, and coming back into the wind the holes with are playing incredibly long, and he was trying to stretch the driver a little bit, hit a couple poor tee shots and that's when you start racking up doubles.  He probably didn't get off to the smooth he's of starts which I think would have set the tone for the day for him.  But yeah, he did what he always does, he kept working hard and kept grinding it out.Q. (Inaudible.)  How do you sort of hang in there?JUSTIN ROSE: It's frustrating, especially when you see so many good scores on the leaderboard.  You don't have it easy.  You can't make birdies.  You're trying to hit great shots but it's very tough coming in.  You know, you've got to try and remind yourself it's a 72-hole tournament.  If it was an 18-hole tournament you'd hang your boots up and go stop at 17 and take a pint in the Jigger Inn to be honest with you.  But you got to try and believe over 72 holes, you can have your run, you can get your spell where you get the weather better than anybody else and put it together.  On Sunday is when it'll count.Q. No birdies on 17 today.  Not surprising?JUSTIN ROSE: Not surprising.  I hit a good tee shot that just ran into the left semi and hit 3-iron short of the green.  Rickie hit a left tee shot but hit 3-wood in there.  That's a pin you're not really attacking with those sorts of clubs.Q. Phil missed two 3-woods and ended up 60 yards left.JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, it was tough, tough coming in.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT