BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
September 21, 2019
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JUSTIN ROSE: I lost momentum a little bit I felt around the turn. I bogeyed 10 again, and failed to get, you know, it up-and-down from the impossible spot i did yesterday, but didn't birdie 12. That's when I felt like I was lagging behind a little bit -- but stayed patient. Reset a little bit. Said, right, see if I can make three coming in and did a really good job of that. Great birdie at 15 and eagled 17.   
Thought I did everything right on 18, too. It's frustrating. That green is so severe. It's kind of why I didn't go for it yesterday and I was in between clubs and I was a little in-between clubs today and I thought the pin on the left, if I did miss right it wasn't the end of the world. It wasn't an easy chip. I thought I did everything right in terms of playing out to feet left. Actually hit a great little chip shot from a pretty poor lie, and thought I was going to have 15, 18 feet for birdie and just kept going. Whenever it rest up against the fringe, you can then have a guaranteed contact on the next shot.   
Yeah, frustrating way to finish. But I'm in with a shot tomorrow. Would have loved to have been one better, two better, possibly. But hey, there's going to be three guys walking off in a minute thinking the same thing, so doesn't matter.   
 Q.  Tomorrow, wind and rain. Would you prefer that in the chasing spot?  
JUSTIN ROSE: I think so. I said that was my preferred position at The Open Championship and Shane went out and made it abundantly clear playing in tough conditions was doable and he went away from everybody. You all want the lead. Ultimately that's what you pant.   
But sure, I think if you put together a great round in bad conditions, you can make a big dent into someone's lead.   
 Q.  Thanks for your time. Did 17, 18, sum up the day that you had out there today?  
JUSTIN ROSE: I guess so, which is, you know, if sum it up, you play the last two in 1-under, which is what we expect. If you shoot 69 and keep pace would be what I expected today, and bit of a roller coaster. 17 was awesome. Felt like I was really in the tournament, as I am still in the tournament.   
But 18 is frustrating. It's the design of the hole is tricky. How quick the greens are. Actually I thought I did everything right on 18 to be honest with you. I didn't get greedy with my third shot. Thought I played really smart and well executed pitch from over the back of the green and just got kind of caught up in a really awful third lie and fourth lie. So what can you do -- but yeah, sums it up pretty much.   
 Q.  How excited are you to be competing once again back here?  
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, the crowd are great. They have good energy out there. They are obviously rooting for a lot of players because they enjoy their golf here. But yeah, nice to play well in front of them and give it a run tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT