HERO WORLD CHALLENGE
December 5, 2014
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Justin, 64 today; tied for second currently.   
Just get comments on your round.   
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, you know, bit of a similar ‑‑ well, somewhat similar to yesterday in the fact that I threw in a couple bogeys, double bogeys.   
Well, yesterday I had a triple and a double on the par‑3s early in my round; today I had a double again on No. 5.   
But, you know, 11 birdies is the highlight of day.   Any time you make 11 birdies you've done a lot of things well.   I hit a lot of balls really close to the flag today.   I made a few 2‑, 3‑footers, you know, cheap birdies.   I obviously made a couple 10‑, 12‑footers to keep the round going.   
Really felt like I hit the ball close today, which is how I managed to get around pretty low.  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions.  
   
 Q.   (Question regarding how the course is playing.)  
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, it's soft.   I was surprised the greens were soft yesterday and today; whereas Wednesday they were potentially firming up.   So obviously there was a little bit of water put down on them.  
But even yesterday was tricky.   Even though the scores were low, it was pretty breezy.   Today the wind laid down about five miles an hour less than yesterday, which made your iron shots a lot easier.  
Yesterday I was having a hard time judging the wind; today, less so.  
   
 Q.   Is it tough to find motivation to play well at the end of the year?   
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, I mean, can be.   Fortunately if you get a good round going, get towards the top of the leaderboard, you find the adrenaline and you find that inspiration.   
I think if you ball fall a little bit flat and you shoot a couple of even‑par rounds, it's hard to pick yourself up for the weekend.   
Definitely this time of year I try to treat this tournament as fun.   Obviously a very unique format, 18 guys.   You feel privileged to be in this field, so you want to enjoy the week.   
Being in Orlando got a lot of friends around, so I'm doing my best to really enjoy the week as best I can from a that perspective.   That's sort of making it a lot easier on the golf course.  
I feel pretty fresh, to be honest with you, despite the traveling.   I've been on the road pretty much five of the last six weeks, but the body feels pretty fresh.   The mind still feels fresh.  
I would say I feel a lot better shape this time this year than I did last year.  
   
 Q.   (Question regarding 2014 and heading into 2015.)  
JUSTIN ROSE:   You know, all in all I think it's been a good year.   It's been a two‑win season.   You know, the year you follow up a major I think it's been a successful year.   Sort of maintained my world ranking, all those sorts of things.  
It's been a solid year and it's given me a lot of exciting going into '15.   There are a couple areas of my game that I feel very comfortable with right now that in the past maybe I haven't.   I feel like I've got a few sort of new weapons really going into '15.  
I am hitting the ball further.   This week I put in the R15 driver.   That's feeling fantastic going into next year.   Definitely hitting the ball further.   That's going to create a lot more opportunity for me at venues like Augusta, for example.  
And then I'm putting a lot better.   With those two elements of my game working, I think it's going to translate into some chances to win.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
JUSTIN ROSE:   No, I haven't spoken to Scottie about it at all.   He does his own thing.   He runs a tight operation and is very methodical in his thinking, so he's going to go about it what's best for him and what suits Adam.   
He knows himself very well, so he'll come to the right decision.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, yeah, I won the Masters down in Oz with David.   David is great guy, a great caddie, very dedicated to his craft.   From my perspective, I think that would be a good choice.   Obviously it's down to Adam.   
David will give 1005, as will a lot of caddies for Adam.   It's a great opportunity to work for him.   He's a great guy.   He has a great temperament, obviously an awesome golfer.   So, yeah, no wonder there was a big long list of guys wanting that job.  
It's nice to see David on the short list from my perspective, and.   You know, wish him luck obviously.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT