DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 23, 2014
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I take it that's a good way to finish your round, despite just missing it?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, I mean, all week I was clawing my way back, clawing my way back right from the start on Thursday.   Got back into the tournament again.   Today got off to a good start.   Did everything I needed to do early in my round mand a few poor mistakes in the middle of the round, and that was where I struggled.   
I felt good about the way I finished.   Would have loved to have birdied 18.   Would have loved to have not left that putt short.   At the end of the day, this week, I'm very proud of the way I kept hanging in and kept coming back.  
   
 Q.   Fancied your chance even down the wire?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   Playing 18 I knew I had a good chance.   Obviously my drive got somewhat lucky, stayed out of the hazard by a couple yards and I had a good 3‑wood into the green and just a very difficult shot in there.   You know putt it half a yard, it's going to be in the water, and you bail out a little bit to the right and I was a difficult surprised how difficult my pitch shot was actually.   
The water was in play with my third shot.   If I didn't hit a half decent shot there, would have rolled down into the water.   It's a good par 5.   It tests you.   It's a tricky par 5; it's had the better of me this week.  
But all in all, lots of positives and a good week.   But when you come up one shy, it's a little bit like Shanghai where I had a good chance there, as well, after a poor start.   But at least it tells me I'm playing well and get myself into contention and it's never easy to win every time you're in contention but got to keep putting myself there and that's what I'm doing.   
   
 Q.   It is the end of The European Tour season, so how do you reflect on this year?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   It's been a year with a win in it on The European Tour, and obviously I don't know where I finish on the Money List.   But it's going to be top five or six, I would imagine.   
So again, another really good season.   As long as you keep notching up victories every year, and next year, my goal is to play better in the majors and world events and that's a great way to do well on The European Tour.   
   
 Q.   You when you made the turn you were five back of the lead.   How optimistic were you that you could get yourself in the mix?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   I wasn't optimistic at all.   At that point I was trying to redeem myself and have a decent finish.   At one point I saw Henrik was at 17‑under and I was at 11 and I feel six back.   The wind really picked up on the back nine, made it tricky.   Had a real feel of the BMW Masters a few years ago where the leaders really struggled to get into the clubhouse.   
Henrik finished off with great style with a birdie on 17 and I assume he's going to birdie 18.   For me I was really proud of the way I finished.   All week I was behind the 8‑ball, fought my way back into the tournament and put myself behind the 8‑ball, fought back, took a lot of confidence and encouragement from that.   Two of the last three tournaments, I've been there with a chance to win.  
   
 Q.   Is this a momentum builder as you move into the next season?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   What was really important for me this week was how I carried myself and how I reacted to adversity and how I managed myself and my game.   That's how I felt‑‑ no matter what the result was, it was how I felt mentally going into next year, and proud of the way I did this week.   
   
 Q.   What's your version of events over the last couple of hours?   
JUSTIN ROSE:   Just a week where I kept putting myself behind the 8‑ball and kept having to fight back.   Poor start on Thursday.   Got off to a good start today.   Birdied two of my first three.  
But then some poor mistakes the middle of the round and my chance seemed to have gone but never really let my head go down today.   I had to try to stay really patient and got somewhat rewarded.   
Made three birdies in a row on the back nine as the weather stated to get a bit tricky and the wind picked up and the leaders were having a hard time finishing it off.   It was fun to be in contention coming up the 18th and nice to feel those emotions.   
I felt that if I made birdie, I was going to put myself in a pretty strong position because I didn't bank on Henrik making a birdie on 17, which is obviously a phenomenal golf shot he hit in there, so every credit to him.   
It was fun to play the last to try to make birdie with what I felt a chance to win the tournament.   I over‑read that putt‑‑ well, not over‑read it, but was reading the high line and it dived in from the left side, a big, swinging par putt.   But just under‑hit it, which is always disappointing on the 18th.   But other than that, really proud of the way I hung in there all week.   
   
 Q.   Been a great year but you didn't contend in the Majors.   Next year, that's going to be the main focus?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   Absolutely.   The only good thing about the way I look at the Majors, I had a terrible start at Augusta but played my way back into the tournament and US PGA a really bad first two days but played my way back into the tournament come the weekend.   
I had spells of good golf in the majors and obviously yeah you need to putt four rounds together to do any damage but that's the goal for next year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT