BMW MASTERS
October 29, 2014
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What's it like riding on the back of that?   
JUSTIN ROSE:   I was hanging on for dear life to be honest with you.   It's first time I've ridden a tandem.   When I had the steady hands of the captain up front, I felt like I was in good hands.   But you know, first time for everything, and that was the first time I've been introduced as a question with Rosey, Rosey, whatever you just said.   First time for everything, first time I've ridden a bike.   I felt like I was Dutch today doing that.   
   
 Q.   Looked like you needed those steady hands of the captain, it was a little bit wobbly at times?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   It was a little bit shaky for sure.   We were joking about it but one guy goes one way, the other guy goes the other way, it was definitely something different.   It's not something we practised, let's put it that way.  
   
 Q.   I take it you've done some fun things to promote tournaments around the world.   This has to be up there; eccentric?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   For the eccentric for sure.   It's the rabbit and the hare sort of‑‑ the tortoise and the hare.   We cunningly took a little shortcut at the end and made a race of it.   You've always got to find a way to win, and that's what it's all about.  
   
 Q.   BMW always do something, don't they, that makes it interesting and they look after you nicely at an event like the BMW Masters?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   BMW do a fantastic job of hosting tournaments all around the world.   They have got such a consistent brand and consistent way of delivering things, and just the way they put together all the infrastructure is incredible and like you say, with the promotional stuff.   They are an exciting company to work with and be a part of.   And as golfers, I think obviously we very much appreciate the support they give the Tour internationally, both PGA TOUR and European Tour, and over here in Asia.  
   
 Q.   As a golfer, you look out on that course, what are your thoughts?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, it's a good golf course.   You have to play well around here.   It's a long golf course.   You have to drive the ball well.   So hopefully that will suit me.   
I'm sort of flying the ball a little further in the air with the driver than I have done the last time I played here.   So I'm hoping that advantage will pay off on some of the par5s this week.   
Then you've got to hit good iron shots, because there's a lot of slope in the greens and some of the pins are put down in bowls.   So if you hit a good iron shot it tends to feed towards the pin.   And if you hit a bad iron shot it feeds away from the pin.   So good iron play will be rewarded as well.  
   
 Q.   The Final Series, an extra spark or incentive to close the season well?   
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, it does.   You're out here, you've made the long trip to get here and when you get here you want to make the most of it and play well and obviously there's always a lot to play for at the end of the year, and Race to Dubai and World Ranking points and all that type of stuff.   
So a lot of motivation still, and I feel like I always enjoy this time of year, the travelling and sort of seeing some of the different cultures and experiencing the game a slightly different way is fun.  
   
 Q.   Do you give yourself your own little incentives knowing that Rory is so far ahead but there's still things to achieve?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   I'm not sure I can catch Rory.   I haven't really done the maths 100 percent, but the bonus pool runs deep.   It runs down to 15, so there's always something to play for.  
And strengthening my World Rankings as much as possible; if I was to play well and win a few tournaments now, before now and the end of the season, I could get myself probably to second place in the World Rankings which would be a personal best.   So, yeah, there's always something to play for.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT