THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 9, 2019
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just some thoughts on the round, following a 65 with a 68 today?
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, a good morning's work for sure.  Nice to capitalize on yesterday.  I finished well yesterday and started well today, so it was nice to keep the momentum up.  A couple under through the first three holes.  Felt like there could be a score to be had this morning.  Jordan managed to do it, I think he shot 7-under.
But I felt all in all as I walked off the golf course it was a little trickier this morning than I expected it to be.  Kicked up in the morning towards the end of the round and I thought maybe the pins were a little tighter than they were yesterday.  The boys at SKY told me it's playing one shot harder this morning than yesterday's morning.  I guess I felt it out there pretty good today.  But yeah, happy with my position going into the weekend.
Q. How do you feel about going into the weekend now with your score today?
JUSTIN ROSE: Obviously it's about positioning yourself.  Certainly can't win it the first couple of days.  11-under is in the clubhouse right now.  Troy Merritt is playing well.  Who knows what these guys could do.  Someone could get to 14 or could get to anything out there today.  It's a position that I can build ongoing into the weekend for sure, and I've got nothing to lose, which it really great.  Freewheel this weekend and try to put myself in position.
I won a tournament at the beginning of the year.  I'd like to sort of start to win one towards the end of the season now.  To be able to book-end things would be pretty good and make it a great year.
Q. Does that help your strategy when you're freewheeling and your expectations are maybe a little different than other weeks, are you attacking at pins more, that sort of thing?
JUSTIN ROSE: This golf course offers you the opportunity to attack because it's soft right now.  You feel like you can make birdies, but you've got to respect it, too.  You start missing your iron shots in the wrong spots to the wrong pin and it's very tough to get the ball up-and-down.  There's a lot of slope around the greens here.
So no, I'm still trying to be --  pick my moments, really, I guess, but I'm hitting a lot more quality shots which is nice.
Q. When you say you have nothing to lose, you are the FedExCup Champion currently and a couple weeks away from playing for that trophy again with a new format.  What is that going to be like for you compared to last year?
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, I've got a great opportunity I think.  The system is set up that no one can run away with it.  I'm in a great position right now.  It would be nice to have a good solid couple of weeks that I can get up that leaderboard starting Thursday morning at East Lake and it's a golf course I like, really, really like.  I feel if I was to be able to start leading, would be great.  You know, but if I can be within touch, three, four, five shots, then I would be very confident going into East Lake.
Q. How would you assess your game?  We saw at Pebble Beach, you were right there.  Your short game has been so good all this year.  Where are you at as we start the FedExCup?
JUSTIN ROSE: I'm way closer with my game than I was through the U.S. Open and The Open Championship.  It was great to compete in both those majors really not playing that well.  Like you say, the putting and short game held in there really well for me.  The putting is still holding up really nicely.  I'm beginning to see some momentum with the long game which is great, and hopefully can continue to build that these coming weeks.
Q. What's been the key with the short game?
JUSTIN ROSE: I'm actually not happy with my chipping at the moment.  I'm actually heading to the chipping green after I'm done with you guys.  I feel like that's an area of my game I've left one or two out there this week so far.
Sometimes there's so many aspects in golf that you've got to pay attention to your putter and you've got to pay attention to your long game, mental side, fitness.  I haven't done enough chipping, I don't think, in the last couple of weeks.  It's hard to do it all all the time, but I'm going to try and sneak in an hour now to chip.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT