THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2014
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JUSTIN ROSE: It was the easiest conditions I've had all week.  Obviously the warmup looked to be incredibly difficult.  The rain was lashing down.  As we got to the first tee it really eased off.  We had a couple of little showers out there, but for the most part it was really scorable, good golfing weather. 69, really my round yesterday was a much, much better round of golf than that one.  Although I played incredibly well today, hit a lot of greens.  Through the back nine I gave myself chance after chance after chance.  Links golf great chances are 12 to 15 feet.  I had tons of them on the back nine and missed all of them really.  I made a 20-footer on 17, which was a nice way to finish, and then birdieing the last. Really salvaged the day, the last couple of holes.  It was a day where I played really well and got nothing out of it.Q. (Inaudible.)JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, I guess so.  Obviously thunderstorms is something we deal with a lot on the PGA Tour, and very, very rarely over here, especially in The Open Championship.  So unusual weather right now. Yeah, it's -- I know there's a lot of talk about the draw.  Obviously being on the right side of the draw and the wrong side of the draw, and the irony of a two-tee start the next day, which kind of levels the playing field for everybody.  In any golf tournament if you go out early in the morning, you have an opportunity to make up a lot of grounds on the leaders.  That's why finishing off golf tournaments is very hard, because typically you get the worst end of the golf course, too, as well as all the pressure. I think if you were leading The Open, I think it would have been a nice sort of opportunity to come out and play amongst a very level playing field.  Everybody is going to get the same conditions.Q. (Inaudible.)JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, absolutely.Q. (Inaudible.)  Did you feel any of the tiredness of putting together another win?JUSTIN ROSE: I think I'm doing well this week.  I think I've maybe used up my luck the last couple of weeks.  This week it's been sort of hard going for me.  I've played well and not got the most out of how I feel like I've played.  And obviously being on the wrong side of the draw.  There's not many guys ahead of me that have played on this side of the draw.  I'm right there leading the other Open. If you split it up and look at it, I'm doing well considering the guys I've played against. Yeah, for the most part I'm happy with my performance.  That's the thing with the game is that many weeks you play and you don't get the most out of it.  The weeks you do get the most out of it, that's when you win.  So far this week I haven't had that hot run yet.Q. Did you feel any extra pressure today?JUSTIN ROSE: I've got to say not really, to be honest.  Maybe there is, but I felt very calm and comfortable with it all week.  I've felt good with my game.  And I felt like I've been right there.  It hasn't quite translated yet.  But, no, I've put in a good performance so far.  It hasn't really added up to giving myself a chance tomorrow.  But I've been happy with the way I've played.Q. (Inaudible.)JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, 7 away is too many, I think.  They've got par 5s to come to.  You could see the lead being 14, really, by the end of the day.  That's too many.Q. With a two-tee start at the Open (inaudible.)JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, I mean it didn't pan out to be that way, to be honest.  It's turned into a non-event, weather-wise. So, yeah, they're trying to get the job done.  They're trying to get the tournament done.  They're trying to make the decisions best for the players, crowd, people, everybody.  So safety for everybody.  But it's hard to play catchup tomorrow if you have -- if we didn't get finished today, with how long -- well, mind you, there wasn't that many guys that made the cut.  We could have probably caught up in the morning and carried on.  You make the championship Sunday, you feel like you just want it to come down to 18 holes.Q. What was the majority of opinion for the two-tee start?JUSTIN ROSE: Surprise.  And there's a lot of surprise that no one could get their tee time until 10:30 last night, too.  That's very tough when you're trying to prepare for the tournament.Q. Did you get an explanation?JUSTIN ROSE: No, Mark Steinberg phoned me with my tee time -- well, I knew about 9:15.  It wasn't posted, I believe.  Looking at Twitter, it wasn't posed until after 10:30.  I don't know when it was posted.Q. (Inaudible.)JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, I saw Brandt Snedeker tweeted at 10:30 didn't know his tee time.  I don't know why.Q. (Inaudible.)JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, absolutely.  He's playing well.  And he had a couple of really great short-game shots out there.  His putting stroke looks as solid as ever.  Yeah, he's beginning to hit the ball well.  Everything was fairly tight.  There was no loose ones in the bag.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT