THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2014
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. (Inaudible.)JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, I was pleased with that.  It was difficult out there today, and that was probably just good enough to keep me right in it. I couldn't have asked more out of today, to be honest with you.  It was tough out early and I was 1-over par through 7.  I had a couple of nice strokes around the turn.  Chipped in at 9 and 10, which felt like I got my championship going.  And I felt from that point I could probably pick up a couple more, but the course definitely proved to be difficult.  Even the downwind holes it was hard to get the ball close to the hole, as it often is.  Picking one up at the last there was a nice way to finish.Q. Considering the climate and the course, how much different was it today from yesterday?JUSTIN ROSE: There's always a tipping point with links course.  I think 10-to-15-mile-an-hour breeze, it's sort of fun to play.  If it gets over 15, if it gets toward 20 miles an hour, which I would imagine it did today, that's when it gets quite extreme and quite difficult, and the ball starts oscillating.  And it's tough to keep your balance while you're putting and holing out. So it got to the point today, for sure.  Especially on the back nine.  We had an hour or so, I felt like we were just hanging on.Q. (Inaudible.)JUSTIN ROSE: Maybe, but not in as important a tournament as this.  That was just what I needed.Q. (Inaudible.)JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, absolutely.  And actually I made a nice putt at 8, too, for par.  I made about a 15 foot par-putt.  And I went chip-in, chip-in, so that was the turn point for me.Q. (Inaudible.)JUSTIN ROSE: They were both probably 60 feet from the pin.Q. You're famous for chip-ins (inaudible).JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, I mean, if I do go onto win, that little stretch there would be a turning point, for sure.  But what it's done right now is give me an opportunity to go into the weekend. It feels right now that we're on the wrong side of the draw.  Whenever you come off the golf course it feels calmer then when you have to play.  We'll see.  I don't like to see the flag doing that.  When I was playing the second hole, it was howling.  I think in the worst case I'll be a handful back, and we'll see what happens.Q. (Inaudible.)JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, there's always that, for sure.  I still think that these championships are -- that stuff only really matters once you get into contention on Sunday.  I think there's so much hard work to do until you get into the heat of battle down the back nine.  But when you are on the back nine, you have some positives and confidence.  That's when it's a bit easier than maybe guys who haven't been there for a while.  I think that only comes into effect for me on Sunday.Q. You mentioned at Congressional you like conditions that are difficult.  Do you hope for wind and rain for the weekend?JUSTIN ROSE: I like it difficult when you have complete control over the golf ball.  There's a point where it's a guessing game, really, with some shots out there.  But I think especially when you add another element like rain, I never really prayed for that, for sure.  But there's definitely a mentality that you have to have if it gets really tough. But for me I want to make sure I can use all my skills out there on the golf course.  And sometimes when the weather gets too tough, it's a bit of survival rather than playing golf.Q. If it's too easy, does that mean people don't have to use all their skills?JUSTIN ROSE: Maybe, but I don't think this course is too easy for sure.  I think there's a lot going on around here.  As I played this course more and more, I've got a lot more respect for it.  And this course doesn't need much for it to become a test.Q. (Inaudible.)JUSTIN ROSE: No, they're from the front edge of the green, pretty good leaves, 60 feet, no rough, pretty basic pitch-and-runs.Q. (Inaudible.)JUSTIN ROSE: I did, yeah, 50 degree wedge.Q. (Inaudible.)JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, so far so good.  I think I'm doing the easy job being here.  And the hard labor has been going on back there.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT