ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 12, 2014
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   It looked to us like you swung the club well and holed some lovely putts on the back nine, how well do you feel you're playing?
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, today was as good as I've played, I want to say in a long time, but probably my second round at Congressional, and that round of golf there, were probably two of the best rounds I've played all year. 
I felt like I got it close to the hole many, many times out there which on a links course is tough to do. Yeah, really, really happy with the way the game has progressed throughout the week.

Q.   You have not won in Scotland as a professional.   How special would it be to pull it off tomorrow? 
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, it would be great.   Obviously I'm on a nice little run right now so to keep it going would be fantastic.   I think that would be a brilliant outcome for tomorrow. 
But still really enjoying the links golf, and I think that's what I came here to do, just keep playing the game and keep trying to work out the shots and work out how to get it close and take a lot of joy in that.
But obviously there will come a point tomorrow where you will sort of switch into, you have to win a golf tournament.   Looking forward to it.   I said at the beginning of the week, just to be in contention this week and sharpening your skills under pressure will be fantastic opportunity going into next week.

Q.   Tied for the lead going into tomorrow, is your experience in finishing off tournaments better than Marc's, will that stand you in good stead? 
JUSTIN ROSE:   I would say yes, but also for him, this is a special tournament which you can take a lot of inspiration from that, too.   I'm sure the home crowd will be wanting to see a Scot pick up the trophy. 
So yeah, depends who signs their scorecard first who will be in the last group, assuming they both make regulation play from the middle of the fairway.   We'll see.   Never easy finishing off a golf tournament, whether you've done it five times or never before. 
Yeah, I'm just looking forward to tomorrow basically.   The course, it's a lot of fun to play and I'm beginning to get my head around it.   I understand now some of the lines off the tees.   We've played it in both winds, so I'm not sure what the weather holds tomorrow, maybe a bit of rain which will throw another element in.   But we'll just deal with it the best we can.

Q.   You've got a reputation for winning on tough course, Congressional and Valderrama, etc.; is this a tough course? 
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, I would say it would fit in with‑‑ it would definitely hold its own amongst the courses I have won on.   That's definitely been my M.O. recently; of the tournaments   I've managed to win, they have all been on pretty stout tests.   I'd take pride in winning on a links course for sure.

Q.   Are you hoping the pollen count is off the scale next week? 
JUSTIN ROSE:   I'm struggling, I don't know if you notice, I had the glasses on today.   To be honest I actually struggled the last two or three holes reading the greens a bit.   I find it hard, once I start the round with glasses, I like to finish them in glasses.   I hate to put them on off, on off. 
As it got more and more grey towards the end of the round‑‑ when I actually took my glasses off on 18, I thought, there's actually a lot of daylight left (laughter).   I didn't realise how dark I was seeing everything. 
But definitely the last couple weeks I've really struggled and beginning to get sort of sinus pain, so I need to get on top of it before next week.

Q.   Are you starting to feel worse as the week progresses? 
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, today I would say so.   I felt a little bit achy today, a little bit of a headache today, a little bit of sinus pain but nothing that‑‑ it's no big deal.

Q.   31 on the back nine; is that right?
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah. 

Q.   That's some score. 
JUSTIN ROSE:   Absolutely.   It was nice to turn‑‑ 10,11 and 12 are three holes you could sort of still make some birdies but I holed three really beautiful putts there. 
Then I played the meat of the course really well today.   Got a bit frustrated on my second shot into 14 because I hit a perfect tee shot and just fell a sleep a little bit on the second shot.   Felt like I rushed it and never really got clicked into the shot and I made bogey there, which is my only mishap of the day.   I gave myself a bit of a talking to going to 15, but nice to bounce back the way I did.

Q.   You mentioned the weather is looking a bit iffy; is that something you enjoy?   And the hayfever, could that affect and make it worse? 
JUSTIN ROSE:   I would say if it rains it's going to help it.   I've never enjoyed playing in rain.   I don't think anyone enjoys it.   But we'll be prepared for it.   We'll have all the gadgets in the bag, gloves, cover‑alls.   We'll have everything at our disposal to make it easy. 
But obviously the only thing when you play in the rain is that especially hitting drivers, you never quite know how the ball is going to come off.   Always feel like there's a bit of a knuckleball effect.   That's the only thing I don't like. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT