WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 1, 2014
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Not an easy afternoon of play here with the wind blowing around Quail Hollow, Major Championship golf course hear, you post a 69, get a birdie and an eagle early.   How would you rate your performance today? 
JUSTIN ROSE:   I think it was a great score for me today.   I sort of realized it after about 11 holes and hit 3 greens and I was 2‑under.   And I was working hard for my score and scrambling really well, and for the most part feel like I'm swinging well and difficult to hit in the breeze, but 69 on the golf course very, very happy with that. 

Q.   You had a tough early start for 2014 for a lot of reasons, one being injury but we have seen some positive steps for you.   Do you feel like your game is progressing as we move into the summer months? 
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, absolutely.   I fell into some bad habits just with the shoulder and protecting it, but I feel like I'm hitting it well.   I've got my distance back, and my short game feels as sharp as it's ever felt, and I feel like I'm on the verge of‑‑ well, I am, I'm playing with some great stuff now, and I've been really excited about the way I played in the Zurich Classic last week and obviously this week, and running into the Players Championship next week, so for me it's a really good gauge to see where I'm at. 
I feel like I've been a little stop start, stop start, so it's great to get a few rounds under my belt.

Q.   I thought you drove the ball pretty well, struggled hitting greens on the front nine but the eagle putt at 5 and up and downs, was it 11, 9 and 8 really kept you going.   How did you hang in there? 
JUSTIN ROSE:   That was the name of the game, really, through the first 11 holes.   Even on the 11th green, I missed it long left and in a bad spot and got that up and down to keep the momentum going and birdied the next, and then I felt pretty comfortable from there on.   Felt like I could make a couple of birdies coming in, and obviously a little bit of a tough 3‑putt on 17.   I felt like the weight there, I lost my rhythm a little bit, lost my chain of thought, poor 3‑putt, but at the end of the day I think 69 is exactly where you need to be after the first round.   Pretty tough afternoon out there and certainly will take that as a start. 

Q.   Your only bogeys were two 3‑putts, one at the par 5, 7th and one at 17.   Obviously new greens, new golf course.   What are your thoughts about that?   How did it affect your play today? 
JUSTIN ROSE:   I think this is a great golf course, greatest, and very rare that you play the combination of Rye rough, Rye fairways with Bermuda greens, and I think it's such a great way to play.   The greens held up well all day and big improvement over last year, obviously but these greens are going to get better and better now as we run into 2017, and it's a truly fantastic golf course, and I think rarely do great golf courses get changed and changed for the better, and I think this one really has. 
Holes like No. 12, the green has kept the same character as it always had, got the same slope direction, same mounds, but it's softened to the point where it's a much better golf hole, and same on the other greens too, so really great job. 

Q.   A great drive on 16, the one at 18, the shoulder okay?   What's been the key to your driving today? 
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, I'm working on some good stuff.   I guess we're working on loading my right side a little better in the backswing, and I'm probably holding on to the lag a little better in the downswing, so transferring that energy more efficiently, so, yeah, I'm fully fit now and looking forward to the rest of the season. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Justin.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT