MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2014
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JUSTIN ROSE:   Again I played well in the middle of the week.   I played as good as anybody in the field.   And today was just‑‑ I felt like the course was definitely playing tricky.   Pins on 3 and 4 were on tough spots.   And I was on the wrong side of them.   And left myselfin really quick ‑‑ the greens are so quick from the spots I left myself in, it kind of got in the back of my head for the rest of the round.
I left a number of putts from that moment short.   Although I really felt like a holed out well from three or four feet.   I just seemed to leave myself a lot of 8, 10‑footers.   And when you've got eight, ten feet with about a foot of break, it's not that easy to make all those.
But, yeah, I just didn't really get a lot out of today.   I'm disappointed with that.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, Graeme, other than yesterday looked a little shaky.   The first two rounds were incredible, and then to go out and play as well as he has today‑‑ to go out at 3‑under par today was a really good front nine.   I think Jordan was hanging with him for a while, but those two were really a good performance in the last group.

Q.   You'll be defending the next Major?
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah. 

Q.   Have you any thought about that and how much are you aware of or know Pinehurst?
JUSTIN ROSE:   I don't know Pinehurst at all.   So definitely I'll get some prep going and going to spend a week there before the tournament and really get to know the golf course.
I'm looking forward to that, I'm going to really work hard from now until then so I keep my hand on the job.

Q.   How much did you spend preparation‑wise for Merion, before you got there?
JUSTIN ROSE:   I spent three days the week before the tournament and really got to know the course and conditions when there was nobody around.   I could spend hours and hours out there really learning the nuances of it.   And I think Pinehurst will be similar, especially with the short game shots. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT