DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 2013
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How do you reflect on your week?   
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, it was a good week.   Obviously wasn't quite able to get in the thick of things.   Congrats to Henrik who is looking like he's sealing the deal here.   He played a great week's golf, starting with the lead and led from start to finish pretty much, so pretty much the same as what he did in September with the FedExCup, so fantastic season for him.   
Yeah, for me, obviously I reflect on a good year at this point.   I go home for two weeks now and then I'm going to have to gear up and I have two weeks back out on the road which is going to be tough, because I wouldn't mind shutting it down about now.   It's been a long week, but tried my hardest and wasn't quite able to bring out the best.  
   
 Q.   Thoughts on this championship now that it's all done?   
JUSTIN ROSE:   It was a close but no cigar kind of week for me.   I played okay.   Didn't play great.   And obviously it was going to take a great performance to get past Henrik.   He's done well to hold off all challengers this week.   
He came in as No. 1 and to win the golf tournament is exactly what he needed‑‑ it's probably not all he had to do, but it's an emphatic way for him to finish the season and exactly like did he in the FedExCup, and it's been a very impressive year.  
   
 Q.   A run of birdies just around the turn, but probably too little, too late, wasn't it.   
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, there's always lots to play for.   I had my eye on, there's always World Ranking points and always where I'm going to finish in The Race to Dubai, so there's always something to play for.   
Obviously Poulter is having a strong finish, as well.   He'll probably finish second and I'll probably finish third but at that point it doesn't make much difference.   We are all here to finish in the No. 1 spot, but a good year.   That's what I'm going to reflect on when I'm on the plane going home.   I'm going to look at it as a long year.   These three weeks, I've battled hard, haven't had my best stuff but given it everything I've gone.  
It's going to be quite hard for me to turn around in two weeks to come out and play again I think.   Sun City is normally just a fun week and if you play well, great, and then going to Thailand for an Asian Tour event.   I think two weeks of seeing my kids, that's what I need to do right now, and then just the last two weeks before really putting the clubs away for Christmas.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT