TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN BY THE MINISTRY OF CULTURE AND TOURISM
November 10, 2013
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   With the exception of, say, the first 18 holes, you had quite a week. 
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, I guess I got it going there.   Kick‑started me, seeing the scoreboard and seeing how the guys were playing this golf course; you assume that to do any damage on the leaderboard, you have to go 65 or better this week. 
I got it going, especially on the front nine today.   It was nice to play my way in with a chance on the back nine.   My playing partner, Jamie and I, we were on the same track there.   He hit a great 1 on 16 and I managed to make a 2 on top of him, which gave us both a chance coming in. 
You know, I kind of figured you had to get it to 23‑under.   That was the number in my head.   Hit a good wedge shot into 17 but a couple yards short and caught the ridge.   And 18, you've just got to play it better than that.

Q.   Going into next week, do you feel like you've gained some ground? 
JUSTIN ROSE:   Well, I think I've gained some ground, yeah, for sure.   It's nice to be able to control your own fate next week. 
So if I go in and have a good week, win a golf tournament, which is obviously the aim any time you tee it up; but if I go ahead and do that, that's going to obviously be the exact scenario I'm looking for.   Fifth last week, probably tied for third this week, I like the way that's trending towards No. 1.

Q.   Made it worthwhile in the end, didn't it? 
JUSTIN ROSE:   It was a fun front nine.   Got it going.   Kept saying all week I haven't clicked into that gear where guys are having runs of birdies and really getting going low.   I managed to do that on the front nine today which is great and played my way into contention, which was exciting to be honest. 
Slight sour taste the mouth on the last but I guess that happens.   It was a tough putt down the ridge through the shadows, very tough to judge the speed on it, and was kind of one that I was trying to cosy up there close and left myself a 6‑footer there which wasn't much fun. 

Q.   All to play for in the close? 
JUSTIN ROSE:   Absolutely.   And then Jamie did on 18 what you had to do and gave himself a look for eagle.   Unfortunately his putt just missed. 
I knew I had to get it to 23.   I was 21 playing 17, and with the finish the way it was, I figured 23 was the number I was trying to chase down and obviously, unfortunately right at the end, went the other way.

Q.   Still in the bigger picture, some important points? 
JUSTIN ROSE:   I think so.   Yeah, I think Poulter probably birdied the last which will tie me which means I'm 20per cent more behind him with this rule.   That was a bit of a costly bogey for me from that perspective.
But I guess the man in front is Henrik and possibly gained a little bit of ground on him.   All I wanted really was to go into Dubai with a chance and knowing it's in my own hands, and I am assuming that will be the way it is now.   So good week well done. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT