WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 3, 2013
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts overall on the week?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, pretty good week for me.   I don't mean pretty good for me‑‑ but a pretty good week.   Never really got to the level other guys were playing at.   24‑under‑‑ anything in the 20s is exceptional golf.   I didn't really feel like I had my best stuff out there, so considering that, I'm really happy with the week and I feel like it's a good building block for me the next two weeks.   
I feel that The Race to Dubai has gotten pretty fruity now going into the last couple of tournaments.   Henrik probably couldn't believe the leaderboard, probably the worst possible leaderboard for him this weekend with G‑Mac, Poults, me, and even Gonzalo was playing well at one point.   So everybody is breathing do you know his neck and it's going to be an exciting Race to Dubai.   
   
 Q.   Mightily close, you almost hit a hole‑in‑one, you almost nailed a very long putt early on the back?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, it was the kind of day today, I had four birdies, no bogeys, but nothing really went my way necessarily.   I felt like I didn't make a putt.   I never really got comfortable on the greens and never really had the speed of the greens.   It was just always a little bit of hard work.   I never really clicked into a nice run.   
So considering that, I think it was a very efficient final day.   Obviously there's a lot to play for, World Ranking points and obviously valuable Euros at this stage.   So I felt that I was never going to catch the top three and I made the most of everything else.     
   
 Q.   Not far off?   
JUSTIN ROSE:   No, it's not far off, exactly.   I didn't really know where my game was, came in a with a bit of an injury, too, which I didn't really talk too much about, my shoulder was bothering me.   I'll take it and I think I can move on from here nicely.   
First two days I was struggling a little bit, anti‑inflammatories and stuff like that, but I feel like it's now to a point where I can start training again and get it moving.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT