TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 20, 2013
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   So same score for two rounds, but seems like a little bit of a different way of getting there.   
    JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah.   I feel like today was the better round of the two in the sense that I feel happier after today's round than yesterday.   It was a better score today is what I'm trying to say.   
    I didn't play my best golf today, but sometimes it's satisfying, when you don't play your best and you walk off with a different score, that you've done a lot of things well mentally.  
   
 Q.   Going into a round like that, is it difficult to have‑‑  
    JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, it is difficult, especially this stage of the season.   I think a lot of us are on the edge.   Resilience and patience aren't quite there, but that's what I've been really, really good at this week.   
    I felt like I struggled through the Deutsche Bank and the BMW a little bit, but this week recommitted myself to doing all the good things I know how to do.   It takes discipline and focus, and I feel like I just wanted to finish the year strong.  
   
 Q.   A lot of guys talked about how strong they've played the last four weeks.   Do you feel like you're tired out there?   Are you okay?   
    JUSTIN ROSE:   I think it's how you play yourself.   It's how you frame it in your head.   
    All of us are tired, but I was kind of on the wrong side of it the last couple weeks, but I just kind of refused to talk myself into being that way this week.   I feel‑‑ I'm just trying to make a real effort this week to bring my best stuff.  
   
 Q.   After having a nice round today, do you feel‑‑  
    JUSTIN ROSE:   What score is he on right now?   He's at 10.   What am I, a 4?   I've got a low one in me.   I've hit a lot of good putts this week that haven't yet fallen.   I feel very comfortable with my putting.   I'm not holding out well.   
    If I can just click with my long game, I feel like I can hold it for the weekend and get it to, who knows, 12‑plus for the tournament.   
    That remains in Henrik's hands a little bit, but he's got a lot on his plate this weekend.   He's controlling his own destiny, and he's done a great job of it.   But I'm sure, as we get towards the finish line, I'm sure $10 million begins to loom pretty large.   
    I'm sure that's the difference a lot of us have this weekend as we get to swing that much freer.   
   
 Q.   Justin, 2 under, 68 is a really nice position to be in.   How did today's compare to yesterday's?   
    JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, I feel better about today's and yesterday's.   I feel like I played better golf yesterday than I did today.   It's funny how it all works itself out.   
    But I was very pleased with that round of golf.   A good round under my belt.   I didn't get behind today.   I was struggling to control the distance and missed a couple to the left.   
    Do a little bit of work on my swing, and, yeah, get ready for the weekend.  
   
 Q.   You always strike me as a player who has a game plan and doesn't really leave much to chance.   Is that a fair assessment?   
    JUSTIN ROSE:   I would say we're not playing our best for sure.   I think the last couple of weeks coming into this, I've been slashing drives where I should have been a little more patient.   I've been making a lot of mental errors over the last couple of weeks.   
    Definitely, when I'm at my best, I think I typically play golf without making too many bogeys, I guess.  
   
 Q.   It was intriguing yesterday to hear you say that this was the first week for a long time since your U.S. Open win that you nearly fell back to normal.   Yet so many other players today seem tired.   Tiger Woods said he just didn't have it on the back end.   Must feel good going into the weekend feeling as strong as you are.   
    JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, I felt that way the last couple of weeks.   I guess you have to suffer a little to bit to realize it doesn't feel very good and then you think to yourself knowing it doesn't feel very good and then you think to yourself and you dig that much bigger.   When you're out there, you're making mistakes, and the game isn't that important.   
    So I just felt like I recommitted myself this week, sand so far so good.   
   
 Q.   And Stenson is a hard man to reel in, but you'll give it a go.   
    JUSTIN ROSE:   Absolutely.   He's playing really well right now.   He's been playing well for weeks.   This kind of golf course suits him.   
    I think one thing he's doing well and has been doing well all year is his iron play as we saw yesterday.   He plays his irons well all the time and gives himself good looks.   Absolutely, he's got a lot on his shoulders for the weekend.   
    I'm envying‑‑ no, I don't envy his position.   I'm in the care‑free position of just having to go round.  
   
 Q.   Two rounds of 2 under 68 for Justin Rose after 4 under for two rounds.   Rather volatile second round.   You want to talk about it.   
    JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, I mean, I guess in some ways, when I'm playing my best golf, I play pretty much mistake‑free golf.   Today I didn't play my best golf, and that's obviously where the bogeys came from.   
    I think the key to today's round is mentally I stayed with it.   I didn't let my mistake that I made today get on top of me, and I was able to bounce back.   Obviously, pretty much make birdies when I needed to after making a few mistakes out there.   That kept the momentum going.   
    Obviously, Henrik has played pretty well.   He's separated himself a little bit.   It's always possible for the leader to vault.   If you look at the average, I'm right where I need to be going into the weekend.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT