PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2013
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JUSTIN ROSE:   I mean, definitely a round of two halves today.   The front nine was tough; I think it was tough for everybody.   
It was raining pretty hard at times.   At the turn, 17, 18, coming into the turn, those two holes were playing incredibly difficult.   17 wasn't even reachable.   
At that point I just felt like I was trying to hang on, just not try and shoot way over par really.   The rain did stop at the turn and put on a fresh glove, and got the waterproofs off and kind of felt like you could start to play some golf instead of just trying to survive.   
Obviously I got hot and kept rolling with it.   Adam played some great golf the last couple of days and showed me that this course is playable and you can make some birdies out there.   And when I got hot, I stayed with it, which was nice.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, I mean, we went through 5 or 6 towels on the front nine.   There were times out there where I even hit shots with wet hands.   You go through your routine, you take your hand off for a second, raindrops again between the grip and the hands.   
But at the end of the day, you have just got to sometimes do your best and pull the trigger.  
   
 Q.   What Adam Scott did yesterday on holes one through nine, make you change your strategy for going after it today?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   Not really.   This is a golf course you have to respect.   It just happened to flow for me today.   I hit the right shots at the right time.   But it's still a tough golf course, still got to give it a lot of respect.   
The front nine yesterday, I also had a bit of run myself.   I think I made four birdies on the front yesterday, so obviously the front is sort of suiting my eye.   If I can just figure out the back nine a bit better, it should be good.  
   
 Q.   Playing like that, do you almost feel like you want to go right back out and get the third round going?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   I mean, I'm pretty hungry now and pretty happy to sort of call it a good day's work and get some rest.   
Obviously these weeks are long weeks.   I think that's what you learn and that is where you have to be patient.   Things are going to go my way on the weekend at times, and I'm probably going to have moments where things aren't going to go my way.   
For example, a day like today is a good learning lesson.   If you have a sticky patch on the weekend, just hang tough and hopefully you'll have your run again.   At no point do we get ahead of ourselves.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   It does change your approach.   Obviously we dream of winning one and now you have the chance to win more, and hopefully track on from here.   I think you are possibly not as desperate going into the last couple of days because you have done it.   You also know what to expect and that is the most important thing.   I think knowing that you've hit the shots under pressure, no matter what situation you face on the weekend, you know you've been there and you know you've handled it.   It doesn't mean it's going to be easy, but at least you've got the positives to draw on.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   I think from this point I don't see the course getting really firm.   I think there's been too much water.   By the time Sunday comes around, maybe there will be a bounce in the greens.   I don't think we're ever going to get them really firm and fast from this point.   I just hope that the ball doesn't pick up too much mud on the fairways where you can't control your iron shots.   Hopefully that is not the case.   The course is still going to show it's teeth at some point this week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT