PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2013
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JUSTIN ROSE:   I think 68 is a good start in a major championship, good start today.   The course did offer the opportunity to get it going low, as Adam Scott proved.   Obviously playing with him today.   He played some flawless golf on the front nine, and I felt like maybe got me going with him a little bit there around the turn.   
Then obviously around the rain delay, I felt a bit of a struggle coming back out.   Just lost my rhythm a little bit.   All in all, really happy.  
   
 Q.   When you are ready to come out here and you're seeing scores are getting put up, does it change anything in your mind or get you anxious?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   If you pay attention to that, it can put you in a wrong frame of mind.   Great golf comes from being patient and playing one shot at a time.   If you take too much notice of the low scores and you change your game plan, that's where you run into trouble.   
I felt like I did a good job of not doing that today.   All in all, I think that's what I did today.   I feel I can get better as the week goes on.   Could hit more fairways, could hit more greens, but was happy with the way I hung in and ground out.   Pretty good start.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   We have been revisiting a lot of feels that we have been working on for the last few years, what I need to work on and what's going to help me out on the golf course.  
   
 Q.   Do you think things might get tougher out here as the week progresses?   Do you think that's a trend?   
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, I think that's always the way.   I think pressure mounts.   A lot of guys get themselves up around the lead sometimes have a hard time holding on on the weekend.   Obviously the course tends to firm up.   I mean, that's the goal of the championship is to have the course progressively get a little bit tougher each day and get the greens a little bit firmer and faster.   
Obviously the rain overnight and the little bit of rain today has hindered that a little bit.   If we have decent weather through Sunday, I think these greens will firm up quickly.   
When you repair ball marks and what have you, they feel sandy underneath.   One or two days without moisture and I think they will firm up quickly.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   I think so. I think under par you take pretty much any time around this golf course.   I felt like I had an opportunity to maybe get to 4, but it wasn't to be.   All in all, it's a good start.   I can build on that.  
   
 Q.   At 14, did you disagreewith ‑‑  
JUSTIN ROSE:   A little bit.   You know, I hit my tee shot and then the ball just really disappeared.   It stopped incredibly quickly.   
When I got up there, I could only really see the top third of my ball.   I checked it.   I picked it up and I had mud on my ball.   Obviously it was in a cuppy lie.   If you moved the grass aside, you could see thatit maybe had touched ‑‑ it definitely had touched the surface to pick up mud.   
He determined that it hadn't broken the surface, which if your ball has picked up mud I don't know how it can't break the surface.   Obviously I had to put it basically in a hole and that's a chip shot that you try to make sure you get it up to the top tier.   If you leave it six or sevenfeet short, it is going to roll all the way back down on the front edge.  
When you call a rules official, you live and die by their decision.   So that was that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT