THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2013
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  What were your expectations coming in here?
JUSTIN ROSE:  I had high expectations, or high hopes,
really.  I didn't really have any expectations.  It's been a
little -- the preparation has been unusual for me coming in here
three weeks off.  But that was always going the slight unknown,
I'm afraid, taking three weeks off before this.  But the decision
was made hoping I'd be playing well, and hoping I'd get myself in
contention and really need to be mentally recharged for the
weekend.
Obviously this golf course proved just a little too much
for me this week.  I wasn't quite prepared for that.  I wasn't
quite prepared to play the U.S. Open again, to be honest with you.
This felt more like Shinnecock Hills in 2004 than it did an Open
Championship.  So I wasn't really expecting that, for sure.  I
didn't have my game to be playing this type of golf on this type
of golf course; there's no let-up, really.  And like I said, I
just wasn't quite ready for the task, I'm afraid.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
JUSTIN ROSE:  I don't think so.  Obviously it's hard to
sit here 10-over par and tell you otherwise.  But I did everything
I could for three or four weeks to get myself ready and I felt
that was enough time.  If I'm honest, my game never felt great
coming in here, but I felt if I could give myself a chance and
hang around, I could get better as each day went on.  That was my
plan.  And obviously I felt like obviously the conditions being so
tough, didn't really help that happen.
I felt like a slightly softer test would have helped me
work my way back into playing shape a little bit quicker.  This is
brutally tough, I have to say.
Q.  Because of that is there any humbling factor in this?
JUSTIN ROSE:  Golf humbles you all the time.  I've
learned the hard way in this game many, many times.  There was
never any expectation -- I was never really going to get ahead of
myself, there's no doubt about that.
Q.  How would you so completely switch off (inaudible.)
JUSTIN ROSE:  Well, obviously I played the Travelers, and
then probably traveled best part of ten days, only ten days, I
would say.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
JUSTIN ROSE:  Yeah, once I'm out on the golf course
obviously I'm into this tournament.  And I was quite happy for
Thursday to come around.  And obviously it was nice to see people,
nice for people to congratulate me.  Obviously a lot of friends I
hadn't seen, so it was nice to share it with them.  But at the
same time, when I was on the golf course, I was out there to play
The Open Championship, as I will be my next tournament, I'll be
there for that.  You can't live in the past.  You have to keep
going onward and upward.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
JUSTIN ROSE:  Absolutely.  They are difficult to win.
Guys spend their whole careers trying to win one, let alone more
than one.  And they are incredibly difficult.  And a lot of things
need to lineup.  You basically need to have your best stuff pretty
much anytime you do play in a Major to give yourself a chance.
But I feel that my game does suit the Majors generally.
I feel like over the next five to ten years I should be able to
create more and more opportunities.  My goal is to get better as a
player, not to chase down more and more tournaments.  I'm invested
in improving my game and improving myself and improving my mental
game.  And I think that's what's going to drive me on to more
success, not really going now and single-mindedly targeting more
Majors.  There's more improving as a player I can do.
Q.  As a Major champion, is the disappointment the same when
you can't quite turn it on in big tournament?
JUSTIN ROSE:  I'm one week removed, two weeks from
removed from winning a Major, so it's just a bad week.  And to be
honest with you, there's so many variables out there on that golf
course, I'm not going to take it seriously.  I'm not going to give
myself a hard time about it.  It was two days, two not very good
rounds on a very, very tough golf course, on a course that maybe I
wasn't 100 percent expecting and prepared for.  Simple as that.
I'm not looking too deeply into it, I'm afraid.
Q.  If you had the last two weeks back again, what would you
have done different?
JUSTIN ROSE:  I would have done what I did, I spent two
weeks with my kids and had a life.  And enjoyed it, which is
exactly what I've done.  No regrets.
 
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT