U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2013
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How important was it to get your round finished?
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, that was huge.   Obviously when you're playing‑‑ when you're up at the top end of the leaderboard, you know you're going to have a late tee time tomorrow.   It's hard to start at 7:30 in the morning and wait until 1:00 or 2:00 to play.   That lying in in the morning is going to feel very good.

Q.   How does it feel being in contention?
JUSTIN ROSE:   It's fantastic.   That's the job of the first two rounds to get yourself in striking distance, and tomorrow is an important day to hang around and give yourself a chance on Sunday.   You can't get ahead of yourself on the tee shot tomorrow. 
This kind of golf course you don't know what to expect.   There's a lot of birdies out there, a lot of pollen out there.   So I don't think you're safe until you've carded your score here.   You can be 4‑ or 5‑under going into the last few holes.   You don't know how the round is going to pan out, so you have to stay focused.

Q.   How much did the course change today?
JUSTIN ROSE:   I don't feel like a huge change, I feel like the scoring, I feel like, has remained fairly constant both days.   67 is the low round for both days.   And the cut sort of trended, based on yesterday, was going to be something like 7‑over. 

Q.   What point in the round did you feel you could get the round done?
JUSTIN ROSE:   I think 14, 15.   Did a little time check and felt like we had a chance.

Q.   Did you make any deal with the group in front so you hit a tee shot in the fairway so you could play it through?
JUSTIN ROSE:   No, but we had to wait until about two or three minutes on the tee.   And I was getting nervous.   Kuch was already hitting, we had 20 seconds before the horn rang.   He just suddenly grabbed the club out and he was ready.   But the official meant 20 seconds before they gave the sign, but that was definitely taking one for the team. 

Q.   Phil is right up there.   What about potentially being paired with him over the weekend, that would be interesting?
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, I always enjoy playing Phil.   He brings the energy out there. 
The Philly crowd has been great for me.   They have been very supportive of me this week.   But obviously Phil, the U.S. Open fan favorite, I think there's a lot of goodwill for him. 

Q.   The Philly crowd have been great to you, (inaudible.) Do you find that?
JUSTIN ROSE:   I think there's always one smart guy out there who had a few too many drinks.   But it's part of being a professional.   In golf we get very, very little of that.   If you're a football player or any other team sport, other sports are patriotic, fans are with their team and against the other team.   So that's the way I see it.   It's part of the job.

Q.   You were saying yesterday that you looked at Adam at the Masters, and he being a contemporary of yours, and the component composition of wisdom and experience and honing your skills and you're in the prime of your career, are all these things coming together for you right now the way you're playing?
JUSTIN ROSE:   I don't know if they're coming together or not, but I feel that I'm capable of a good week and big week.   And I fell like I'm capable of winning these tournaments now.   I'm not going to get ahead of myself one little bit.   I think that's part of learning your trade, not get past Friday night.   It's not‑‑ deep down I believe I can.

Q.   Just being able to get through tonight and how important was it not to come back in the morning and not do it again?
JUSTIN ROSE:   That's huge.   I think it could be worth shots tomorrow, there's no doubt.   Being off late for my third round, so I have to come out for a 7:30 restart and kill seven or eight hours before I have to play again.   It's very difficult to go back to bed and then get up and feel kind of energetic and to be able to prepare properly for my round tomorrow is huge.

Q.   Are you feeling good on this Merion golf course?
JUSTIN ROSE:   I am.   I feel like my preparation that I did after coming here last week, I've got a good game plan, and it's a matter of hitting the right shots. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT