ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 23, 2013
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Justin, that was quite a start out there when you get to 4‑under after 4 holes.   Tell us how the energy started to really get going for you in the early part of this round? 
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, obviously a great start, really.   It was quite funny, actually, the energy disappeared big time.   My legs went on me almost out there.   I don't know if it was fatigue or didn't eat right or something, but I was struggling.   My legs were going, and I made some loose swings coming down the stretch and really trying to hang on to that.

Q.   You certainly had your legs under you for that shot at 18.   We were discussing it.   You must have had a great lie because you were very aggressive with that shot and took it over the water and laid it on the edge of the green.   We thought you were going to lay‑up on that one. 
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, I pulled up to at least the back of the ball.   I swung very steep with a 5‑iron, tried for a high cut.   I felt like worst case it would go long in the back left bunker, which I was okay with that.   But, obviously, it came out perfectly and cutting on the wind.

Q.   After all that, you come into the house even after your round, still just 2 shots from the lead and you're right in the thick of it. 
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, definitely.   I felt like coming in today, I just wanted to go out and play a good round of golf.   I wasn't too worried whether I was 2 ahead or 2 behind.   The real day is tomorrow.   Obviously, you don't want to give Tiger too many shots. 
The back nine was a shame, but today means nothing really until tomorrow plays out, so hopefully he doesn't go get hot tomorrow and then today's just a memory.

Q.   Just talk about the round today.   You got off to a good start. 
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, definitely a good start today, great front nine, and first four holes got me flying.   I felt good about things.   I guess still being 3‑under for the round through 12‑‑ anyway, the point is from that point in the round I really struggled to get it into the house almost physically.   I felt like I had a big energy loss out there.   Struggled to get my legs under me coming in.   But, yeah, tried to hang on as best I could and stay in the round and the lead.

Q.   Can you elaborate on the energy?   What do you think might have attributed to that?   Anything you ate last night? 
JUSTIN ROSE:   No, I normally try to do the right thing; slept well, stayed hydrated.   It was one of the hottest days we've played all year.   I don't know if I wasn't quite used to that, maybe electrolytes, not getting enough of those down me.   Who knows. 
But the point is I tried to hang in there.   Now I have to freshen up and come out tomorrow and feel good.

Q.   Any stretch on the back nine that disappointed you the most or a shot that you wish you could have had back? 
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, 13 green.   That is a green I always find tough to read.   I felt like I hit a good wedge in there, and the wind switched on me.   As I hit it, it kind of went downwind, and the wind carried it farther than I thought it would.   It left me a tough two‑putt.   But I thought at that point, getting to that hole, obviously, I made a full swing at 14.   It was just kind of limited damage really.   But, yeah, I thought key momentum would be the par at 13.

Q.   You said in the first two rounds you were able to feed off the energy of the gallery around yourself and Tiger and Ernie.   Obviously, there wasn't that energy there today from the gallery.   Does that kind of bring you down a little bit? 
JUSTIN ROSE:   I said it felt like a Thursday on the first tee today.   Having played with Tiger the first couple of days, I was enjoying the vibe out there.   I'm sure there will be a lot more of that feel tomorrow, so that's good.   Yeah, definitely a different atmosphere today than it was the first two days.

Q.   Going into tomorrow, what do you need to do? 
JUSTIN ROSE:   Obviously, for me, I'm going to go out there and try to play as good a round of golf as I can.   I'm not going to think about who I'm competing against.   It's going to be a day I'm going to need the putter to get hot.   I've made too many bogeys the last two days, so I'll try to limit those mistakes and wait for the putter to get hot. 
But, yeah, I'm sure it's going to take something in the region of 67 to 64.   I don't know.   The weather could be really funky tomorrow, they say.   So from that perspective, who knows.

Q.   I was going to say, is that encouraging that the forecast is not supposed to be great? 
JUSTIN ROSE:   When it's a bad forecast, I think guys can make up ground much quicker on a leader.   It doesn't take much for a leader to shoot 1‑over and not play that badly.   So anybody in the pack could come through and shoot well in the final round. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT