U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2019
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You trailed by one through 36 at Merion.  Trailed by 1 through 54 here.  What's the feeling going into tomorrow?  
JUSTIN ROSE: I'm in a great position going into tomorrow.  Had a great day with Gary.  He's awesome to play with.  For both of us, we are good friends, we have the same stable of management.   
From that point of view, it's going to be a fun day.  One back gives me the freedom to feel like I've got everything to gain, nothing to lose.  It's always a position that -- it doesn't mean I have to approach the day any differently, if I was one ahead.  I'm close enough that I have to build my plan, build my round of golf, be disciplined.   
I'm not chasing, really, I'm so close to Gary that I have to go out and play my game tomorrow.  And I think it's going to be dictated by the pin placements and the weather tomorrow as to how aggressive you can be and what it will take to win.  I make no predictions tonight on what tomorrow is going to feel like tomorrow.   
 Q.  How do you feel about your ball-striking today compared to yesterday?  
JUSTIN ROSE: Maybe a one click improvement.  I think the reason -- I don't know about my stats.  My stats probably aren't great, hitting fairways, hitting greens.  But I hit more quality golf shots.  I did the right thing with the golf ball on a couple of occasions today.  You think, okay, that's closer.  So hopefully we can hit a couple more tomorrow.  But I think going the right direction.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, absolutely.  I think at Merion I wasn't afraid to lose, and that's probably a good mindset going into tomorrow.  It gives you the freedom to play your best.  I three-putted 16 on Sunday, and I could hear all Phil's movements on the back nine, based on the crowd.  That three-putt, I let it rush off me.  I didn't get frustrated.  I didn't think I'd blown my chance to win.   
So just kind of kept moving, one foot in front of another.  And I think that will be my mentality tomorrow to walk through the finish line, to play the 72nd hole with the intention if we need to go to the first hole, just one shot at a time and grind away.   
 Q.  What happened with the mis-hit in the bunker?  
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, the mis-hit out of the bunker, I'm playing such a high shot there, leaving it in the front right bunker is a tough place to do.  I was trying to play like a karate chop on the back of the ball.  I was trying to take a quarter of inch of sand there and try to nip it out to give myself a little bit of spin to try and leave it within six feet of the hole.  So very high challenge shot, and didn't come off, clearly.  But very lucky how it popped up to the top of the bunker and a decent lie.   
 Q.  You mentioned putting together a plan tomorrow.  What goes into your mind?  
JUSTIN ROSE: Assessing the wind direction, assessing the pin placements.  It's angles, where you can get it up-and-down from.  This week I've got to go up-and-down a lot, but probably because I -- not every time, but leaving it in more of the appropriate spot than not.  So giving yourself half a chance.   
 Q.  How long does it take you to put that together?  
JUSTIN ROSE: Probably an hour in the morning, certainly.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
JUSTIN ROSE: Putting definitely has been, to coin an American phrase, the MVP for sure.  I felt like the putter, with my preparation for the greens this week has been good.  And I'm reading the greens really well.  I'm seeing the lines.  The putter is behaving, but I think I've done a good job, obviously.  And these greens are so slopey, you can slope it and miss putts, but I've been reading the greens really well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT