WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 21, 2013
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You've beaten K.J. 2 and 1.   How do you feel about your play? 
JUSTIN ROSE:   I don't care about my play, I feel good about my win.   That's what it's all about this week.   I did enough today.   I said at the beginning of the week, it comes down to that one moment in the round where you need to make something happen, and that moment for me was on 15.   His ball was inside mine there.   He had about 12 feet up the hill fairly straight; I had like 22 or 23 feet across the slope.   So it was looking like I was going 1‑down.   Being 4‑up wasn't lost on me out there.   When you give away a lead like that, it doesn't feel good.   So that was the moment for me, and to make a putt when I really needed it feels good, and I feel like that's what I've begun to do a lot recently.

Q.   Do those putts feel differently in match play than they do in stroke play?
JUSTIN ROSE:   Well, yeah, you get that same feeling on a Sunday coming down the stretch, but you only really know that at the end of the a tournament.   You get into a routine, sort of Thursday, Friday, Saturday where obviously the putts all mean something, but you don't know how it's going to pan out until the end of the week.   But obviously you'll get a putt like in Abu Dhabi a few weeks ago I had that putt to force a playoff.   It's a similar sort of feeling as that one where you know it's a do or die situation. 

Q.   Nicolas Colsaerts tomorrow, Ryder Cup colleague.   Thoughts on that one?
JUSTIN ROSE:   Well, he turned my back side at the Volvo in May when he won that tournament.   He was about 9‑under through 14.   He's obviously capable of going low as we saw at the Ryder Cup in the four‑ball matches, and I'm going to have to be at my best.   He's obviously a good player as we all know, and a lot of par‑5s on this golf course that he can take advantage of.
Yeah, I think it'll be a tough game but obviously one that I'm looking forward to, and I'll have to make some birdies.

Q.   Nice to stay unbeaten, isn't it? 
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, always, absolutely.   It's nice to ride that wave for sure.   I felt edgy all the way through that back nine, I was nervous.   I've come off three weeks off, and you're still not used to the competitive juices really.   It's like being in contention for the first time in a while almost. 
Having been 4‑up, as well, I think I was extra nervous not wanting to give that match away.   You manage it by sort of breathing, walking a little bit slower, working on your rhythm, and that paid off for me.   That paid off on the back nine.   I hit some good putts that didn't go in, and I felt like I was going to make putts, which was a really nice feeling.

Q.   Do you think about that, the fact that you go back now and you've won all those singles matches?
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, absolutely.

Q.   It matters for confidence, doesn't it?
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, I believed in myself.   Even though the match wasn't going my way through the back nine, I believed I could still win the game, and I believe that comes from confidence, having good experiences, positive experiences on which to draw.   I was 1‑down against Phil the back nine and turned that match around.   It was sort of a similar feeling to today when I had to pull something out of the back towards the end. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT