TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 23, 2012
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you talk a little bit about 12 Americans playing and only five of you guys?   Do you feel like the European team is playing well going into this Ryder Cup as well as can be expected?   
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, I think it's been a real good ebb and flow between the American team and European team.   Obviously, Snedeker winning, the needle might be swinging in favor of the Americans.   
But I think it's set‑up for a great week in Chicago.   I looked at the long range weather forecast.   It looks like it's going to be perfect.   Two great teams, I think, all in the top 35, 40 in the world, something like that.   So it's probably as strong as it's ever been between two teams.   It's going to be the team on the week.   
What I did say is all 12 of their guys played this week, and only five of ours did.   We'll see how that plays out, if your guy's a tournament shark or if we're mentally fresh.   Only time will tell.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, I didn't get the momentum going on the greens.   I hit a couple of good putts early in my round that didn't go in.   But I felt like I got a little tentative on the greens, unfortunately.   I'm quite early down the track of what I've been working on with my putting.   It's days like today where it gets really tested under pressure, and I've just got to be a little more confident on the greens, I suppose.   That will come over time.   There is no doubt.   
I've only just embarked on this quest to revamp my putting.   I'm a good putter at heart.   I know how to make putts.   Just when I really needed to make one on 18 and you believe, and you just focus on making the putt and that's it, I can make putts.   I'll take the positives out of that.  
   
 Q.   I know next week is an entirely different scenario.   But given the fact that Brandt hasn't played in a Ryder Cup, how would you consider him as an opponent?   
JUSTIN ROSE:   He's mentally tough, Brandt.   To do what he did today, I think next week's going to feel pretty easy for him.   There is a lot of pressure.   Doesn't get any more pressure, I would say, than this, major championships and today.   It's a different kind of pressure playing for $10 million.   I mean, it gets in your head more than other golf tournaments.   Other golf tournaments it's more routine.   
But this week, it's not routine.   We talk about it all year long, and suddenly you have to walk the walk, and he did a great job of that today.  
   
 Q.   The fact that you live in the states and McDowell and Rory is moving in, and Lee Westwood, is there anything that Davis Love could do to Medinah that would surprise the European squad or is there such a comfort playing U.S. style courses that that's overrated, do you think?   
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, I would say the U.S. has less of a home advantage than they did ten years ago just because of the fact that we do choose to live and play most of our golf here.   But the Ryder Cup atmosphere is second to none.   
But the U.S. does have a lot of rowdy golf tournaments where the crowd can get on the limit, which is great fun to play in front of.   I think the more we get used to playing over here, the less of an adjustment it is to play Ryder Cup over here.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   Well, he drove the ball well today, and I think that's what Brandt lives and dies by, I suppose.   His putt something always right are there, or thereabouts.   He's one of the best putters in the world.   
He maybe missed one or two fairways today.   The miss at 17 is excusable.   At that point, he just kind of think the left.   So he blocked that one right.   Other than that, he drove the ball perfectly, and when he does that, he's hard to beat.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT