TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 21, 2012
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Justin, thanks for joining us.   You said out there that it took you a minute to say it, but that you're very pleased with the round and the position you've put yourself in.   Maybe just talk about today and going into the weekend?   
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, absolutely.   It wasn't pretty golf by any means.   It was the kind of day that I hit a lot of decent tee shots.   I mean, I felt like I'm hitting the driver quite long right now, so I'm obviously swinging at it pretty well, but just missing the fairway by one or two yards.   I'm not worried about that.   
I've been hitting the ball really, really well all year.   I'm sure I'll click into a nice rhythm on the weekend and be back to normal hitting on the fairways.   But I haven't been scoring like I have been.   Sort of up‑and‑down, and holing the putts to get some momentum going.   That's what I'm excited about this week.  
   
 Q.   Justin, I don't mean to be negative, but that second shot on 17, what happened?   Did you just catch it heavy?   
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, I caught it heavy.   I've been struggling with sweaty hands the whole day.   I don't know what it was.   It's not usual for me.   But I had to wipe down‑‑ especially with the putter, all day I was really wiping my hands.   On 17 I felt my right‑hand go halfway down and obviously threw the club into the ground and it was into the grain there as well, so I wasn't getting away with anything.   
Obviously, I clearly chunked it, but did feel my grip slip, unfortunately.  
   
 Q.   Do you think at all of next week and this week if you can have a positive finish and keep going as you're going, how would that help you into the Ryder Cup?   
JUSTIN ROSE:   I think today, playing with Tiger.   Playing late with the Sunday atmosphere out there, there were big crowds, they were very pro‑Tiger crowds.   So from that aspect, very similar to what next week will feel like.   It will probably ramp up a little bit next week, obviously.   But today was a great practice round from that perspective, just staying with my own game.  
   
 Q.   I believe before the British Open you were saying you were a younger and you were a little nervous playing with Tiger, but you got over that.   When you played it with him in the Open, you didn't score very well.   Were you comfortable today and was it difficult from the Open or previous times?   
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, I felt like I've played well with Tiger in the past, and in the Open this year was terrible.   It was like 5‑over through 8.   I felt a little nervy there.   I don't know if it was a major a situation playing at home.   So I was quite happy to right the ship today from that aspect.   
The last 27 holes, actually, actually played quite well, but missed the cut by a shot there.   So it was nice to go back out and play with Tiger on his home turf and play well, so obviously, the next time I'm in that situation, I have positive experiences to draw from.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT