TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 20, 2012
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A big move towards the big money?   
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, for sure, absolutely.   Just being here at this tournament is a good feeling.   You get to play, I think 21 of the top 22 players in the world are here this week, so that gets your juices flowing to be able to play in a tournament like this and compete against the best.   
Yeah, from the FedExCup point of view, it's a position of having nothing to lose, really.   Obviously, I'd like to be much higher up the rankings and that's the scenario from last year.   Last year I didn't factor in the tournament, and this year maybe being a little bit looser out there is going to help me.   I think I've only got this tournament on my mind.   A lot of the other guys have two trophies on their minds.   
So I think I'll steal it if I end up winning both of them.   But it will be nice to know.   I'm happy for Bill Haas last year.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   On 18, it's hard to tell, really.   I probably hit it 15 feet left of the cup.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   The best part of the year was one that really everything matched up as I planned.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible) Does that suit you?   
JUSTIN ROSE:   Definitely.   I think I would say it's less of a bomber's course.   You've got to keep a much bigger premium of hitting it on the fairway here.   I didn't do a great job of that today.   I only hit 7 fairways, so I think that's something I can improve on in the next few rounds.   If I keep it on the fairway, I feel my iron game and short game is coming around.   
I'm beginning to get some confidence with the putter.   So it was nice to get out of today with a hot start, considering that.  
   
 Q.   Is it nice to play at a really nice rhythm and nice pace?   
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, you feel like you're speeding through the rounds, which is good.   Didn't wait on any shots out there.   It was a really fun round of golf.   Hunter played solidly.   He drove it really well.   He had a solid finish to shoot 68.   So the pair of us being 6‑under for the round was a fun day.  
   
 Q.   Do you look at leaderboards, or is it too early, Justin?   
JUSTIN ROSE:   I kind of looked at the leaderboards to gauge how the course was playing and how the boys were doing out there, and obviously, I realized it was time to be patient.   No one was really going low.   1 or 2‑under is going to be a good score today, so I always had that in the back of my mind.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT