BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 6, 2012
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How did you find the golf course out there today?   
JUSTIN ROSE:   I think we all knew it was there for the taking today, playing the ball up, not much wind and the greens being soft and perfect, that's a recipe for low scores as we saw today.   It does make it easier.   I know everyone is going low, and that's kind of hard to go out there and try and get it going.   Rickie finally got it going there on the back nine.   I had to be patient, was 1‑under for most of my round, felt like I was getting lapped, but finished with three straight to make dinner taste good.  
   
 Q.   Talk about this golf course because you knew it was there for the taking, but this place isn't easy.   There's some really big holes out there.   
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, exactly.   You probably start with a mindset, you're right.   But you have to drive it‑‑ they haven't had a chance to get the mowers on the rough, so the rough is six inches.   It's tough if you hit it in there, you're struggling.   So first and foremost you've got to get the ball in play.   Some guys have struggled today, and those would be the guys that drove the ball badly.   
Our whole group drove the ball well, so it felt like the course was there for the taking.  
It's never an easy game.   There's some water out there, you've got to make putts, and that was a challenge today.   
   
 Q.   They moved the tee times up tomorrow in case there's weather tomorrow afternoon.   You guys already have a short week, now you make a short week shorter.   How do you keep your energy up?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, I felt a little bit beat today coming down the last couple holes for some reason.   I think the humidity takes it out of you for some reason.  
   
 Q.   Did it work for you?   
JUSTIN ROSE:   It did work for me.   Maybe it stopped me thinking too much.   Obviously a quick turnaround now.   I'll get a little bit of physio.   I've been struggling with my neck.   It's been blocked up pretty good the last couple days.   I'm swinging kind of pain‑free, but I feel my range of motion is just limited.   So I'll get that worked on and come out fresh tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT