PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2012
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about having perfect conditions, especially early on today. 
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, obviously I think this is about as perfect as Kiawah Island gets.   I think we all know you've got to expect a 15 mile‑an‑hour breeze around here, and it really suits the golf course to be honest with you.   You've got to go around and make shots and create shots, and I think it's a fun course to play from that perspective. 
From my perspective obviously a really great way to finish.   Had a great round going yesterday, didn't manage to finish it off, whereas I did today.   I know I hit it in the water on 17, but I was kind of happy with that.   I had my foot on the accelerator, and I felt like I had a hot hand, and I was really thinking if I could finish 2‑3, post a number and see what happens.   At that point it was worth a try. 
But very happy with my day's golf and made some putts down the stretch, which is probably what I haven't been doing of late.   If I look at my last two weekends, Firestone and here, I'm feeling very good about all the tournaments I have coming up. 

Q.   You got off to a good start today. 
JUSTIN ROSE:   Well, yeah, I hadn't played the first couple holes very well.   1 is a birdie chance, 2 is a birdie chance, and 3 with the tee up is a great birdie chance.   Yesterday I started par‑par‑par and then got it going.   So it was nice to get out of the blocks quickly today.

Q.   You have a great finishing round in a major championship; you've got a lot of big tournaments coming up, the Playoffs, Ryder Cup.   What does that tell you about your own game?
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, I've got a lot of self‑belief now.   I think my game is good enough to win these golf tournaments.   At Augusta I was right up there, finished eighth in the end.   The U.S. Open I only finished six back, and there's a million shots I wish I could take over that week.   And obviously this week looking like it's going to be top 5, 6 finish, wherever it ends up at, more evidence that my game is moving in the right direction. 

Q.   Talk about the way Ian is playing today. 
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, obviously Poults, he's tenacious and a fiery competitor, and I think he was backing himself with these two big weeks, including last week at the World Golf Championship, making a bunch of points.   I think he felt good about his game. 
There's something about Ian when he gets into the big occasion he thrives, and he's exactly the kind of guy you want on the Ryder Cup team.

Q.   And as a partner for you?
JUSTIN ROSE:   And as a partner for me, yeah.   I felt fairly confident that he might get a pick, but you want the guys making it by merit.   I think being picked‑‑ it's always nice just to make the team on merit.   There's a lot less pressure on you going into the Ryder Cup if you're not a pick. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT