MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2012
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about your two rounds.   You ended up level par.   You've been in the position where you've led the Masters after the first round I think three different times, so is this maybe a nice way to come into it?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   Well, I've led three times.   I don't have a green jacket on my shoulders, so I've tried a different strategy this year.   I feel pretty happy to be even par, to be honest with you.   Haven't made ‑‑ I actually putted quite nicely the last five holes of my round here, made some nice 6‑footers.   But haven't made a putt yet.   Don't feel comfortable with my game yet.   So to kind of be within five of the lead is something to be excited about.   Hopefully I can begin to find a few more gears this weekend.  
   
 Q.   Had to be nice with the birdie on the last hole, huh?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, it was a good taste.   Obviously, just emotional, mental just to get out of the green and back into even par numbers.   You know, I made a good save on 18 yesterday to shoot even and then birdie today to shoot even.   It's just a nice ‑‑ nice to know that the course didn't get the better of you.   Not feeling like I've got my best stuff.   I'm pretty happy with where I'm at.  
   
 Q.   You got the win early at WGC.   How is that playing into maybe your game or your confidence even though you are still searching a little bit?   
JUSTIN ROSE:   I mean, it gives me the belief that should I get myself into position.   I know how to feel comfortable or confident in terms of closing it out.   So that will help.   
Obviously right now it doesn't factor at all.   Each week is very, very different.   I've got to get myself into that position, but when I do I'll feel good.  
   
 Q.   It seems like there's not a lot of low scores today.   How tough did it play today with some of the pin placements and that kind of thing?  
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, it did play tough today.   I think obviously today being a cool day, low humidity, I think we are going to see the effects of that tomorrow.   The course is going to dry out pretty quickly.   The greens are going to get firm and fast, I think, especially with a cool night tonight.   
We're going to see tomorrow, I think, play quite tough as well.   It's fun.   To me, I like that about the Masters because obviously the pins were a little more gentle today than they were yesterday but obviously with the added breeze no one was able to take advantage of it.  
   
 Q.   Is there a low score out there, do you feel, for you?   Were you still kind of searching?   Do you feel like you've got one of those gears coming up?   
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, there's a low score.   That's the great thing about this golf course.   I mean, there are pin locations out there where if you hit the right shot at the right time, you can make ‑‑ it feeds close to the hole.   If you do get your game going and you hit the right shot at that time right time, make one or two‑putts, of course there is always a score out here with this golf course.   So it offers that.   That's why there's a ten‑shot rule.   Because of that opportunity everybody has to go low.  
   
 Q.   Certainly level par, leaders only five shots ahead.   Do you feel you are in good position at this point?   
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, I mean ‑‑ yeah, of course.   There are so many players ahead of me, though.   Obviously if I was five back of two or three guys, I'd feel really good about it.   But obviously there are a lot of guys ahead of me as well.   You have got to think out of that group of guys there's going to be certainly a handful which are going to have great weekends, which means I've got to go out and have an exceptional weekend.   I have that chance and that's good.   
   
 Q.   Good luck.   
JUSTIN ROSE:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT