PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2019
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What do you think about your round today?  
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, I think obviously good round of golf.  Any time you shoot 3-under par around Bethpage you've got to be pretty happy with it but it was also a day of what could have been.  I felt I left a lot out there early in my round.  Missed one at 1, a really short one at 2.  Nice birdie at 3.  Missed a short one at 4.  3-putted 6.  At that point I was leaving shots all over the golf course.   
But stuck with it.  Knew I was playing well.  Knew I was swinging it well today.  Felt a lot more comfortable with my game.  Iron play was much much better today.  I hit a few really tight to the hole, which was great and just stuck with it.  Obviously got a bit of momentum going around the turn and felt like it could have been a couple better coming in, too.   
 Q.  What do you think about the course setup the first two rounds?  
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, I mean, I was surprised today.  I thought the course was definitely more gettable.  I think it was set up possibly that way based on they were calling for windier conditions, which never really materialized today and I thought the south/southwest wind direction makes some of the longer holes play shorter.  A lot of the -- I think it's designed for this wind direction if I look at the scorecard and the way it plays.   
With the greens staying relatively soft, sure, as you can see, there were some scores in it today.  But it doesn't take much for this course to turn, right.  So if we don't -- I think the weather forecast pretty good for the rest of the week.  I doubt there will be much water going down and by the time you get to Sunday, I think guys will be back grinding.   
But this is a PGA Championship, and it's not about level par and it's not about par being a good score.  It's rewarding great golf and that's what you want.   
 Q.  The irons today the difference today?  
JUSTIN ROSE: You know, everything is different day-to-day.  You just have to go out each day and fight for it and make the most of the opportunities that present themselves.  You know, I think my confidence is growing, so at least I step on the tee tomorrow, thinking I can move forward and keep looking at the leaders and go after them a little bit and not feel like I'm hanging on.  Yesterday was a bit of a hanging on day, but today felt like I could really get going forward.   
 Q.  Were you watching the leaderboard?  
JUSTIN ROSE: I'm aware.  I'm not stressing out over it right now.  Brooks, he made a little run there today on the back nine to stretch it out again.  When I was at 9-under, I was very comfortable with my position.  12-under, I'm not so comfortable, I don't like that so much, him being so far out in front.   
You know, all we can do is just go out and try to play two good rounds of golf and see what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT