OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 27, 2011
Ian Poulter
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  IAN POULTER:   We as Team England were a little subdued last night.   I don't think either of us were much company.   We stayed in our own rooms and kind of rightly so.   I think yesterday was disappointing to shoot 4‑under par in four‑ball, and to go and shoot 9‑under par in foursomes is crazy; crazy in a fact of how well we can play in foursomes.   We knew that the other day. 
We shot 5‑under par on the back nine and felt we left a couple out there, and we bizarrely shoot 9‑under today and actually leave shots on the golf course, which sounds very silly to say, but it's the fact. 

Q.   "Crazy" is a nice word to sum it up, isn't it.   You knew yesterday, you said as much, you have to shoot ridiculously low, and that is. 
JUSTIN ROSE:   That is.   To be honest with you, I felt like today was a bit about coming out and playing for pride.   You always have pride when you are playing for your country but it was about restoring in individual pride for ourselves, really. 
Both four‑ball days were uncharacteristic for us, and today was fun.   We gelled and finally got the right rhythm and right intensity and I think when we do get that, we match up really, really well.

Q.   What a finish, eh? 
IAN POULTER:   It was a great finish.   When we look back at rounds of golf, that's why we play golf; to have that much fun with a few holes to play to birdie 15 to eagle 16, we had a lovely look on 17 and I managed to leave it short. 
And then just give Justin an opportunity at the last to make birdie and he takes it.   It's just a nice way to finish a week.

Q.   Dare I say for both of you, but you in particular, this is becoming more and more familiar in this event, you put in some terrific performances on paper, you had a great week but still disappointed?
IAN POULTER:   Very disappointed.   Last night when I reflect on the leaderboard and understand that Ireland were 13‑under on the front nine and we only managed 1; they are 12 shots better than us on the front nine for the first three days and we are tied with them right now. 
So I just think, yeah, depends on what happens in the next 45 minutes, but I think we might be a little disappointed. 

Q.   I think the suspicion is that the United States or some of the rivals up there have just got too much in the bag. 
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, I think it's too little, too late.   We knew that we probably were just outside of the chance of winning today and we have given it a very brave effort. 
I think the secret today was we dressed a little better.   We dressed like the flag.   We looked at each other this morning and said, "I feel good today, should have worn this all week."   Should we represent England in a couple of years, this will be the look. 

Q.   I would think you'd be up for it again, wouldn't you? 
IAN POULTER:   I'm always up for it, for sure. 
JUSTIN ROSE:   Yeah, it's always an honour and it's nice to come out here and fly the flag, literally, and wear the flag, so we'll do it again.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT