THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
June 2, 2011
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How were the conditions for you today? 
 JUSTIN ROSE: Conditions are beautiful. I mean, it was a really nice round of golf. I felt like there was an opportunity to score low. You can see a lot of decent scores today. For me I just had the lefts coming out of the blocks today. I hit every shot left for about the first six holes and began to figure it out slowly and just battled well today. Kind of made the most of an average day, I suppose, shooting 1-under, certainly not an electric start, but not a bad start, either.

 Q. What did last year do for you? What kind of emotions did you have starting this year?
 JUSTIN ROSE: Well, whenever you come back to a venue you like you get positive vibes, good memories, good emotions. Last year I won it, but I've also had a second and a fourth here. So it's definitely a course I've had success on. 
 Yeah, just came here thinking that it would be a nice juncture of the season. I feel like my game has been good and hopefully feed off some good memories to try to get into that next gear.

 Q. Do you have something to build on for tomorrow?
 JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, I think today could have quite easily been 2 or 3-over and would have been a disappointing start to the round, but I can build on this for the rest of the week.

 Q. How did you feel about 16?
 JUSTIN ROSE: I've been liking it. I think right now we're a little uncertain in terms of when you're standing on the tee whether the green is firm or whether it isn't firm, just because we don't know because it's a new surface. But from a design perspective, it gives you everything you want, you got to stand up there and hit a committed shot. If you hit the right shot the hole gives you a chance to feed the ball close to the flag, but if you miss it, obviously if you bail out right you've got a tricky up-and-down and if you miss it left you deserve what you get.

 Q. Not knowing how firm the surface is, is the water tricky?
 JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, it's new. Exactly. It's a fantastic surface. I've never seen such a pure new green in my life though. It hasn't got a blemish on it. It's quick as the rest of the golf course. They've done an amazing construction job on it. It's just new.

 Q. What did you use there?
 JUSTIN ROSE: I hit 6-iron today. I hit the aggressive shot. I hit a good shot in there to about ten feet.

 Q. Did you try to hit it high?
 JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, high, tried to get it stopping soft, yeah.

 Q. Did you see the course changing as the weather started to change and the wind started to blow? 
 JUSTIN ROSE: It was tricky enough. It wasn't easy out there. Obviously if you played well, you can make some putts and you can make some birdies, but it wasn't easy. This kind of golf course I feel -- if you go and you play well around it, you can always make a number; but if you're off your game it'll eat your lunch for you. 
 I think it's going to get tougher and tougher. That's why coming out of the blocks today and not giving myself too much work was important. It's the kind of week if you hang around, take advantage of the par-5s and the odd good shot you hit, that's pretty well the way to play it. Just try to eliminate the mistakes, because I think it's going to get harder and harder as the week goes on.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 JUSTIN ROSE: I wouldn't imagine so. If we get firm conditions, typically that makes the golf course harder. You can't get as close to the flags and these greens will get just that little bit quicker, which will make them very tough to putt. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT