TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2010
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Well, Justin, what happened? Can you figure out what happened out there today?  
 JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah. It's hard to play golf when you feel like you're going to miss every putt from two feet. You know what I mean? I was just that uncomfortable on the greens all day.   
 The other thing, my golf game felt fair or thereabouts, but just felt really uncomfortable on the greens. It's hard to play -- I had a lot of chances early maybe, but I don't know, just felt uncomfortable on the green.   
 When that's the case, it's just hard to get out there and get after it, but tried to stay in the moment as best I could all day, you know what I mean, but yeah, hard one.  
  
  Q. I know you're extremely disappointed, but I'm just curious, is there anything you can take away from this? I know you try to learn from every experience you have.   
 JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah. I don't know right now, but yeah, there will be. You know, I didn't give up all day. You know, 16 I still felt I could birdie the last three, hit some good iron shots. Just that was the easy part. Getting in the hole seemed impossible today.   
 And that's just what I need to work on. My putting is hot and cold. I can putt great, the feel can leave me. Like I said, just getting up to it I just didn't feel like I had a chance to go in, and I was battling that all day. Tried as best as I could, but yeah I was horrible on the greens today.  
  
  Q. Thanks for your time today. I appreciate it.   
 I guess simply what happened out there?  
 JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, I mean just was rough on the greens today. I really felt like it was hard work getting the ball in the hole from two, three feet, just felt uncomfortable with my putting stroke. You know, it's pretty hard to play like that, you know what I mean.   
 I mean a lot of -- there wasn't really a big change in my game overnight. You know, I think it was a carryover from yesterday. I didn't putt well yesterday, got away with it; putted terribly today and didn't get away with it.  
  
  Q. That Back 9 treated you so well the first two days of the tournament and treated you horribly today.   
 JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah. I felt like I had a great chance, made a great up-and-down on the par-5, 13, hit it close at 14; and going to 15, I really felt like -- I had six feet for birdie on 14 to get back to, I don't remember, 15-under maybe, so the tournament was really still right there with a few holes to play, but obviously I double bogeyed 15 and just went flat.  
  
  Q. Going into it did you feel like it was yours to lose, going into the day?  
 JUSTIN ROSE: Well, it was obviously mine to lose, you know what I mean. I mean obviously I could have shot 1-over par today and won the golf tournament. So it's disappointing.   
 Wasn't overly difficult today. But no matter what, you still gotta get the ball in the hole. No matter how well you play, if you're not knocking in those putts, it's hard to get the job done.  
  
  Q. Is the best part still (indiscernible)?  
 JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, no doubt. You gotta put things in perspective. You gotta accept the rough and the smooth. This game I had a beautiful Sunday. I played eight great or seven great rounds in a row. I've been shooting from -- I haven't played a bad round of golf, and you know, you gotta accept there is one coming. Unfortunately for me it was on Sunday this week.   
 But I started off in a good frame of mind, started off playing very comfortable, but the more I played out there, the more uncomfortable I got on the greens, and it just wore me out.  
  
  Q. Thanks, Justin.   
 JUSTIN ROSE: Okay.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT