WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 25, 2010
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JUSTIN ROSE: It was good. I put a new driver in play, a new Burner Super Fast driver, and I flushed it. I just kind of made an impulse decision yesterday. I was hitting the other one half decent, but just something didn't feel right. I changed and really drove it well today.  
 I putted well for the most part, too. Hit a couple good putts coming in that didn't go in. 18 was just frustrating. I was probably a little too aggressive with the 30-footer, and then I had the worst spike mark on my line. I actually nearly chipped it, believe it or not, from four feet. I just didn't know how I could make that putt. So I chose to putt it and just forget about it. Those are the things that you can't control, and what I could control, I did very well today.  
  
  Q. How did the golf course play out there today?  
 JUSTIN ROSE: You can see by the scoring it played easy. Par-5s are reachable. So that's where guys are obviously making their scores. Quite a few wedges in your hand, and the greens weren't -- haven't firmed up yet. I believe they were really firm but we got some rain obviously beginning of the week. Hopefully by the weekend they'll firm up and things will get tricky.  
  
  Q. Feel pretty good, though, with the whole game?  
 JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, I do. I started out the season really well, didn't play so good the last couple tournaments. Had two weeks off and been working at it, so it's nice to come out and get going early.   
  
  Q. Were you pretty happy with your start?  
 JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, I played well today. Eight birdies was good. The course was there for the taking today. Really calm, beautiful conditions to play golf. It warmed up after about three or four holes to get the sweater off.   
 Yeah, like I said, bookend bogeys beginning and end, but 18 I couldn't really do anything about it. I contemplated chipping my putt from four feet. I had a spoke mark in front of me that was in the worst possible spot because I couldn't hit it high enough to die it in, so I had to kind of take a firmish line for that four-footer. It would be kind of weird to see someone chip it from four foot, but I nearly did it. I just couldn't quite trust myself to do it.   
  
  Q. Despite the 2-under on the front nine, the back nine -- really good back nine considering that bogey at 18 aside.   
 JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, for sure. I'm really happy with it. The pars I made, there were -- I had ten feet for birdie on 12, I had six feet for birdie on 14, I had six feet for birdie on 16, missed all those putts, too. Could have been real deep coming in.  
  
  Q. Nice getting out there before the craziness got going?  
 JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, it was quite subdued for that hole. But it's going to be -- obviously tomorrow afternoon I tee off on the back nine, so I don't think it'll still be that crowded. It's going to gently break us into the weekend.   
  
  Q. Now that you have the rest of the day to kind of detox, relax, how are you going to spend the rest of the day?  
 JUSTIN ROSE: I'll probably just go and work out and maybe even lie by the pool for half an hour, chill. Why not? I haven't got the family with me, so kind of nice to make the most of some pretty relaxing time, too.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT