WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 14, 2009
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Better all round today?
 JUSTIN ROSE: Yes, definitely and especially because today was a tougher day than the other two. There are going to be good scores out there of course, look at what Soren did, but in general I don't think the scoring will be quite as good as we have seen on Thursday and Friday. Guys are trying to get under par early and hang onto the score coming in. But all in all, pretty good, better, and I am particularly happy with the way I am driving the ball. Hitting some quality shots from the tee and I am also beginning to hit my irons better which is good because I struggled a bit with that last week. 

 Q. Your caddie was saying it might have even been a little better than 68, you had a few chances at the end there?
 JUSTIN ROSE: Yes definitely. To be honest I feel a little bit disappointed with a 68, I felt it was more like a 66 or maybe even a 65 out there for me today. But dare I say I felt a little bit of rust as I haven't been playing a lot of golf and it is just all about getting into a rhythm which is nice and hopefully I can continue this into Augusta, that's the aim anyway, just to keep the momentum going.

 Q. How are things at home with the new baby?
 JUSTIN ROSE: Great, really good, and I am getting used to being a father. It is great when I am at home but then when you come away it sets you back a little bit.. You go back home after a week and it is almost like it is all new again. But I am getting used to it, it is fantastic.

 Q. Is it getting hard already to leave your family?
 JUSTIN ROSE: It is. It is going to be nice in a few months when they can travel with me but we're not going to rush that at the moment. We are just trying to get him sleeping as best we can at the moment and then think about taking him out on the road. But it is hard to go, yes. I enjoy my little cuddles with him before I leave for a tournament. It is cute really, you could just spend all day looking at him.

 Q. And not to forget the cuddles with the wife too before you leave?
 JUSTIN ROSE: Absolutely, you can't neglect her, after all it was her that did all the hard work!







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT