THE RYDER CUP
September 19, 2008
Ian Poulter
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tell us about a wonderful afternoon.   
 IAN POULTER: Yeah, it was. We managed to play well. It was nice to actually go out there this afternoon and take the point.   
 JUSTIN ROSE: Obviously I'm familiar with the U.S. but not quite with them being this partisan. It's a great feel to be here.  
 The few Europeans that are here, the few thousand, they make themselves heard and they are troopers and keep us going out there.  
  
  Q. You scored 1 1/2 points, and that's really very good, and the Europeans it looks like are not having the best of days; your partnership looks good for tomorrow.   
 IAN POULTER: I hope so. We got off to a great start in foursomes this morning but unfortunately we couldn't continue that. We came out this afternoon and played awesome.   
 I'd like to keep this pairing going.   
  
  Q. How tiring is it?   
 JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, it's tiring. We were just eating for the sake of eating out there, just drinking, almost sick you're drinking so much water, but you've just got to do it. The physios and doctors this week from The European Tour have been great just keeping our energy levels up.   
  
  Q. Plan for tonight?   
 IAN POULTER: Chill. A good math is required and a good sleep.   
  
  Q. How important was it to come back out and play well this afternoon?   
 IAN POULTER: Yeah, it was key, the half hour or 25 minutes in between didn't really good to be honest. We played great today and he's a great partner.   
  
  Q. You've waited a lifetime for a moment like this and this stage is unlike any other; describe what your day is like?   
 JUSTIN ROSE: Obviously I was quite happy, the way it worked out, I was happy to experience that moment of hitting the first tee shot. It's something you can only try and prepare for but once you're there it is pretty different.   
  
  Q. A long day and a great bounce back this afternoon.   
 IAN POULTER: Yeah, it has been a long day. It was nice to get back out on the golf course certainly after a little bit of a disappointing finish to this morning's round. We came back out firing with all guns and we played great. This afternoon it was pretty flawless, so it was nice to get out there with Justin.   
  
  Q. Ham and eggs it must be for breakfast, you ham-and-egged it and dovetailed beautifully.   
 JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, we had each other's backs and even this morning, with the shots on 16 and 17, we had some beautiful up-and-downs and in some ways I actually felt like we were strong in foursomes so it was nice to get out there this afternoon having lost the foursomes.   
 It would have been a really disappointing day for us having let this morning slip, and got nothing out of this afternoon, so I think actually there's a little bit of added pressure for us to be honest this afternoon. But at the same time we really cleared our heads well in the 30 minutes that we had our lunch and just told ourselves this is a new day and new rounds and just get it going.  
  
  Q. How much pressure did you feel this afternoon?   
 IAN POULTER: Yeah, any European doesn't want to be down and obviously coming out this afternoon, after losing the match in the morning, you're under pressure and you need to go out and hit the golf shots at the right time and try and put the points on the board, any kind of point, a half-point is invaluable.   
  
  Q. Ryder Cup lives up to all of the expectations?   
 JUSTIN ROSE: It does. I love it out there. It's my biggest thrill to be honest with you, seeing your friends and family and people just really right behind you. It does live up to everything and it was an enjoyable first day other than the potential score at the moment.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT