TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2008
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Justin, how are you feeling? A five-birdie round today, a 65. Got to be feeling pretty good.   
 JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, I was happy with that, I think, for two reasons. It was actually the lowest score of the year so far. I know the golf course wasn't playing particularly hard today, but you've still got to get it done. A bogey-free round of golf, too, which was nice. I think I hit 17 greens today, so it was a solid round of golf.  
  
  Q. What worked for you? Was it the irons? Were you hitting your drives in the middle of the fairways?  
 JUSTIN ROSE: I was solid tee to green. Like I said, I hit 17 greens, and that was -- you're obviously never going to shoot too high a score doing that. I made a nice couple of putts on my first two holes, got me 2-under early, and from that moment I just kept chipping away at it. You always feel like you could go lower, but I think a lot of guys are going to have left the odd shot out there, but I'm happy it's a good start.  
  
  Q. You have to feel good after the U.S. Open last week, so jaw-clenching to go to a major like that, to come here and feel like you can free it up a little bit and go for some birdies?  
 JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, I knew I was playing well. Even a Torrey Pines last week I played well, hit the ball well anyway. Just had to figure out a little bit of touch with the putter this week, and just changed my putter to a new Spider putter, the Taylor Made, the Itsy-Bitsy Spider, which is a pretty cool name. I needed a fresh look on the greens this week, and so far so good anyway.  
  
  Q. What's your mindset going into the next three rounds?  
 JUSTIN ROSE: Well, I think today is very bunched, loads of good scores today. Obviously the weather was really perfect for scoring. Just keep chipping away, keep playing solid golf. Obviously I think a lot of guys have got off to a great start, but it's a matter of keeping it going. That's obviously the goal for the next few day. I heard the wind might pick up a little bit on the week, which might be good, separate the field a little bit and just hang tough.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT