VOLVO MASTERS
November 1, 2007
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   GORDON SIMPSON:  Neither of you played your way out of tournament today, and considering the night you had, not a bad result at the end of the day. 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  Yeah, no, I'm absolutely ecstatic about that score.  If I would have been feeling at this point top shape that would have been a brilliant start to the tournament.  Such a tough golf course, there's no letup. 
 But yeah, I didn't have much sleep last night, a couple hours sleep and so from 7.30 onwards this morning was getting rid of things out of my body. 
 GORDON SIMPSON:  Sounds like you picked up Paul Casey's from last year, he had a very bad one. 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  Is that right?  Yeah, just right now, I just feel every joint in my body is aching, aching and feels like I've been 72 holes in the wind or in a Tyson round, I don't know which one actually. 
 To be honest, getting off to that start, got the adrenaline going and got me feeling positive and it was such an important start for me today.  Obviously enabled me to dig a little bit deeper and churn out a good score.  Any time you have a hole-in-one, it's a bit surreal feeling, really.  You have a lot of good shot at the pin, and it's kind of weird when the ball disappears. 
 GORDON SIMPSON:  How many holes-in-one have you had? 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  I've had six, second one this year. 

 Q.  Can you talk us through that hole-in-one, did you see it going in? 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  Yeah, basically it was a 6-iron, 181 yards.  I knew it would be a good 6, and then at the top of it's flight, I could just see it stalling a little bit.  The wind was pretty much straight off the right but if anything, a touch of hurt.  And so the top of its flight, I said "Go!" And when it landed, I went, "In!"  And it disappeared.  Yeah, it was good. 

 Q.  Where was the other one this year? 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  Westchester.  I forget which round.  Third round, I think. 

 Q.  Did you think about pulling out at all this morning?  Was it that bad enough? 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  Well, I just -- physically, you can get around.  But if you start, it's diarrhea at the end of the day, but if you start struggling with it on the golf course, you have nowhere to freaking hide, so that's what was concerning me.  Thirty minutes before I teed off, I threw up just literally right around the corner here, so that was a bit worrying.  So I was actually feeling much better through like nine o'clock, ten o'clock, eleven o'clock, and started feeling bad again just before I teed off. 
 From that point on, I actually didn't feel like I was going to run into any trouble from that perspective so was tired from then on.  Hopefully it's a 24-hour bug and move on really. 

 Q.  Given the night you spent and the hours before your round, would you have taken that before you teed off this morning? 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  Oh, yeah, I would have snapped up that one.  Delighted.  When I saw guys at 3-under and 2-under, I thought the course was playing even harder than that.  Sometimes -- well, yeah, to get myself under par, actually I would have been ecstatic with level par.  That's kind of a mini-goal I set myself and obviously 1-under was good.  I bogeyed the last.  Hit a poor iron shot but really no regrets from that perspective. 

 Q.  When did you last eat? 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  I nibbled on one bar the whole day, just like a granola bar.  Actually I had two granola bars the whole day. 

 Q.  Feel like eating tonight? 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  No.  Cup of tea, feet up, early night. 

 Q.  Have you actually seen a doctor? 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  Yeah, this morning, yeah. 

 Q.  Lots of Imodium? 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  Lots of Imodium and they did like an intravenous drip to rehydrate me this morning and stuff like that.  Yeah. 
 GORDON SIMPSON:  Still look white as a sheet. 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  Do I?  If I don't have windburn, I must be pale. 

 Q.  I know you said beforehand that you would not be watching Padraig and didn't expect him to be watching you at this stage of the tournament, but after six holes when he was six shots behind you, what were your thoughts? 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  At the time I was going along nicely and just really trying to keep my own momentum going, but obviously I knew he got off to a rough start, no doubt about it.  You can see it happening.  You know, he played a great back nine really.  Holed a couple big putts, and, well, he's just played himself right back into the tournament.  There's no doubt about it.  Today was the kind of day you could play yourself out of the tournament.  With a poor back nine, it would have been a long road back for him but that was a great nine holes really. 

 Q.  He's some fighter, isn't he. 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  Yeah, that's what I said yesterday.  That's one of the qualities you've got to admire about him. 

 Q.  And you saw the rolling ball incident on the 7th? 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  I didn't see it but I knew exactly what had happened.  It seemed to roll a good ten inches or something.  He knew the rule, it was obviously -- it's always good to double-check whether you actually replaced it.  There's a couple different scenarios, really; replace it or don't. 

 Q.  Is that the only time you had anything like that, moving balls? 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  Yeah, to be honest, I made a couple balls wobbling, on the 3-putt, I felt a little bit gusted around and the ball was oscillating just a little bit.  But generally, no, it didn't get close to being unplayable at any time at all.  It was just tough. 
 Is it worse tomorrow, 35? 

 Q.  Have you been given a figure today for the strength? 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  Was it 15 to 20?  20?  Can't wait for tomorrow. 

 Q.  And the 15th? 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  Yeah, that was a key, after 3-putting, it was great -- I was in between clubs and went with a 2-iron, beautiful 2-iron.  Kind of was a bit short and looked great in the air to about 30 feet and that's the first putt I holed for about four weeks, it feels like.  It was a good time to hole one. 
 GORDON SIMPSON:  Thank you, Justin.  Enjoy your cup of tea and have a good night's sleep.  Thank you very much. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT