ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 7, 2007
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Justin, another close call, but no cigar, how do you feel? 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  I feel disappointed obviously.  I think the front nine is where it hurt me really.  I actually birdied the first, rolled a really nice putt in there from 30 feet and thought, well, this could be my day and made nothing through the really scorable stretch from sort of 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and that's where I think the lead got a little bit out in front of me. 
 But I was happy with the way I started back and I made a about birdie at 15 to get right back in the tournament, as well, and Nick behind me birdied the same hole, so a lot of credit to him. 
 I felt I did a lot of things right coming down the stretch. 

 Q.  A question of time and patience? 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  Yeah, definitely, I'm feeling great out there and feeling in control of my emotions, and that's all you can do sometimes. 
 Obviously I'm pleased for Nick.  It's a great win for him and a big step up for him, as well, winning this week.  And to start the day with the lead that he had and to get off to a shaky start, I think he did really well to hang in there and every credit to him. 

 Q.  Two shots behind with four holes to play, what's the game plan then, take risks or wait for a mistake? 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  I still thought 18-under was the number and I got it to 17.  I made birdie at 15 to get to 17.  I thought if I could get through 16 and 17 with pars, give myself a putt for birdie at 18; that was my game plan.  And Nick did finish on 18, so it was a pretty good shot. 

 Q.  You narrowed the gap on Padraig Harrington, approximately £20,000, how do you feel about that now? 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  Yeah, that's definitely a bonus for sure.  Start of the day, both 13-under par,  and I'm glad I obviously went out there and played well for myself.  And really, the Order of Merit, you know, now I'm so close, it sort of easy to say it would just be a bonus.  Obviously it is a target but at the same time for me I don't think it's much pressure.  As I say it would be a huge bonus to playing well this year. 

 Q.  What's your schedule from here? 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  Got Wentworth next week, which is the World Match Play, HSBC, which will be a big event, obviously get through a few rounds there and anything can happen.  And then I've got to  play a couple more, probably Portugal and Volvo Masters. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT