DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2018
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you sum up the day over all?  
JUSTIN ROSE: Good to build on yesterday's round.  The course is playing a little bit easier today.  I noticed that by some of the front nines that the guys were playing.  Guys were getting to 8-under par.  And when I would make a birdie I would notice that I wasn't going ahead of the field, I was just staying with the field.  That was the intention today was to try and make birdies.   
I felt the course was more gettable.  I think being out in the morning, fresh greens, a touch of moisture in the surfaces, as well, probably helped.  But still, you know, it's -- yeah, it's never easy to back up a really good round.  It was a good job done today.   
 Q.  I was reading the transcript yesterday where you were reflecting on the first time here and being in that first Tour.  Can you for a moment even sort of remember the kid you were then and who you are now and kind of just think about all that's gone on in between?  Did you have any moments of reflection being here because of that?  
JUSTIN ROSE: I've had a few moments of reflection this week.  Adam Scott, who won the tournament that week, we used to spend a lot of time together on Tour.  Yeah, a few memories of that particular week have come up this week.  I kind of joked with him about it in the locker room this morning.  Yeah, but there's a lot of water under the bridge, and was it 16 years?  So my memory is pretty vague in the middle.  I can remember the beginning, I can remember yesterday, but in the middle is a bit foggy.   
 Q.  When you think about all the things you have accomplished, because I think where I read in the transcript, you got on the PGA Tour then with that finish?  
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, exactly.   
 Q.  What you were able to accomplish from then, and thinking about that kid you were, if you thought that was possible, all of this?  
JUSTIN ROSE: Obviously so just from what I said yesterday, I finished third here, and amongst the majors in the world I played that season I made enough money to get a Tour card without having to go to Q-School.  And that was a big deal for me, because it took me awhile to get onto the European Tour.  I had three or four attempts to get my speed and my career up and running in Europe.  So when I had the opportunity to get a card for "free" that's something I really wanted to take.   
And then I made a decision to move over to play the PGA Tour.  Yeah, I think that that ultimately helped me to be the player I wanted to be, a player that was going to win major championships.  And I felt like to win majors I had to get comfortable playing on the PGA Tour.  That's why I think that early transition over here I think probably got me to this point.   
 Q.  There's a strong English representation on the board?  
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, Tyrrell obviously played well today and Tommy is thereabouts.  I had a little smile about that, myself.   
 Q.  You talked about the memories from your past.  But as the conscious person as you are, I know, do you take in the past information, memories, to play now?  
JUSTIN ROSE: I think you get an overall good feel about a place and you like coming back to certain cities.  I feel like I can make the drive to Providence and back with my eyes closed.  So I feel comfortable here, which I think is important.   
But day-to-day, it doesn't -- you have to each day reset and come out and do a job.  The golf course doesn't know previous rounds how I've played here in the past.  This golf course has changed a lot over the years, too.  I feel like the course we played in '03 is very different than the course that we play now.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the atmosphere here, and what it's like playing in front of the New England crowd?  
JUSTIN ROSE: I love playing here.  A great group today with Tony and Brooks.  There was good support out there for us all.  Obviously being the outsider, being from Europe, I feel like I get a good reception here.  It's obviously maybe the fact that I've been here many years and played well here occasionally.  I enjoy playing up here amongst the great sports crowd.  You always have the Labor Day weekend, I feel like there's a good mix of golf fans and people just coming out to have fun.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
JUSTIN ROSE: Yeah, I think so, for sure.  He's obviously been fantastic in the Ryder Cup in the last sort of decade or so.  I know it was pretty hurtful for him to miss the last one and watch it from the sidelines.  Sometimes that can be the biggest inspiration.  I think I'm sure that spurred it on to definitely want make this team in Paris by watching from the sidelines in Hazeltine.  So I would say so for sure.   
 Q.  How encouraging is it to play this well in the playoffs?  
JUSTIN ROSE: You know, I feel like you need to play well in at least one of the playoff events going into Atlanta, and you need to win it in Atlanta.  You need to put yourself in position to play great there.  The more points you can get the better your opportunity is going into East Lake.   
I came into the playoffs in great position and like I said, obviously missed the cut last week.  It doesn't mean much really if you go ahead and you win one of the next two.  That's what you need to do.  It's easier said than done, though.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT