THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2016
Cameron Tringale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How was the up-and-downs to finish things out there on nine?  
CAMERON TRINGALE: It was great.  I had that bogey on eight and was really -- I missed a couple chances right before that.  So to get that one back was big for me, just to feel like, all right, I finished on a good note and have a little momentum going into the next two days.   
 Q.  How would you compare the conditions out here these last since the break to what it was before?  
CAMERON TRINGALE: Honestly, about the same.  If anything there's maybe a bit less wind.  Greens might be half a foot slower, maybe.  But really not too much different.   
 Q.  Just in terms of morning wave compared to afternoon wave, what are you expecting from the weekend, given all the leaders are going out early tomorrow to finish?  
CAMERON TRINGALE: I think you'll continue to see some low scores out of the morning.  I guess we'll be starting later tomorrow, but greens definitely got a little bouncier, where the ball was releasing on your second shots in the afternoon there.  And I would expect that to increase as the weekend goes on.   
So, it will be a good test, probably, scores will probably continue to be really good in the morning and then maybe see them level out in the afternoon.  But a lot of great players here, you never know what will happen.   
 Q.  How important was it to know you don't have to get up in the morning and come back to finish tonight?  
CAMERON TRINGALE: I didn't really think about it at all, being the second group out, it didn't cross my mind.  But it's nice to be done.  Nice to only have to play 18 holes tomorrow and just be ready for one round.   
 Q.  17 the last two days has probably played scoring-wise as easy as it's played ever here.  You hit it like that (Indicating) and Will was inside you.  
CAMERON TRINGALE: Yeah, a little bit.   
 Q.  Do you expect 17 to get a little meaner here on the weekend?  
CAMERON TRINGALE: I just think with the wind's doing.  With the greens being relatively soft -- that pin today I didn't see much, but I wouldn't expect many balls to hit up by the pin and bounce over, it was pretty receptive.   
As far as how it will play going forward, I think it just depends on the wind.  That's the biggest issue on that hole.  And it's been a favorable wind the last two days.   
 Q.  You really joined in the celebration there.  Did you, you seemed pretty happy for him?  
CAMERON TRINGALE: Oh, man, it's pretty amazing to see a hole-in-one there.  My caddie and I were talking this week just about the best places to have a hole-in-one ever and this is right up there.  The atmosphere is electric back there.  And we had a great group.  We had a lot of fun.  We were pulling for each other.   
It's still Friday.  If it was Sunday, I don't know if I would have been doing that, but it was fun.  He hit a great shot and it was really cool to wit it.   
 Q.  Last time was 2002, 6,300 shots, obviously you didn't know the stats exactly, but that's pretty incredible.  
CAMERON TRINGALE: Yeah, especially to that pin.  You would think for a front pin or maybe the right pin, but that pin was flat up there.  He really hit the perfect shot.   
 Q.  The winning score the last few years has been 13 and 12-under.  Do you have a target in mind for this weekend given the way the scores have been so far?  
CAMERON TRINGALE: Not really, just, this golf course can change so much and the conditions can make it play a lot more difficult.  So, I'm just going to be out there doing the best I can and the number will be the number.  If it stays how it's been, it will probably be a little lower than the last couple years.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT