THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2016
Cameron Tringale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Start off by telling us about your round.  
CAMERON TRINGALE: 7-under.  It was a first round of the PLAYERS championship, 2016.   
Started off, it was, I got off to a nice start, birdied the first two holes.   
Hit it really close on the first.   
Birdied the second, got some nice momentum.   
A little bogey at 5.   
But the biggest thing for me was just on that next hole just getting up there and leaving it, leaving that bogey behind.   
And moving on to the 6th hole, was able to play the last 12 there, 13 there in 8-under so -- or 6-under.   
So that was the turning point for me, just getting past that.   
And got some momentum on the back nine.  Birdied 16, 17 and good little save there on 18.   
 Q.  How do the conditions compare to most Thursday mornings here?  
CAMERON TRINGALE: There wasn't really much wind.  I think at most maybe it played half a club.  So, it was definitely gentle out there.   
The greens are soft.  So, you're able to be pretty aggressive coming into the greens.  And I think we'll continue to see that throughout the day.   
 Q.  17 a lot less scary in these conditions?  
CAMERON TRINGALE: 17 was, is always a little scary, but the wind was slightly helping off the right, so for me that was as easy as it's going to get a little front pin, you knew you had the back stop, and still a daunting shot, but probably as short as it will ever play and not too bad.   
 Q.  Have you felt like you've been building to a round like this in the last couple weeks?  
CAMERON TRINGALE: On paper, no.  I haven't had a great stretch.  I've been steadily building the last three weeks.  I feel like I've been getting some traction and building confidence, just in what I'm doing.   
It hasn't showed yet in the scores, but I feel very, very confident in what I'm doing and I'm excited just to continue to see if I can do that here at Sawgrass.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT