THE BARCLAYS
August 27, 2015
Cameron Tringale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great round, four birdies, no bogeys.  What was the key to going bogey-free today?  
CAMERON TRINGALE: You know, it really came down to my putting.  I made a couple nice putts on the first few holes.  Gave me some confidence on these greens.  You know, just played smart.  This golf course can be tough.  You know, you get into the rough and you're scrambling.  So I just try to keep it in front of me and play to my strengths and get on the green and see what I can do and it worked out.   
 Q.  You shot a 63 on this golf course the second round last time it was played here.  How well would you say it matches up with your game?  
CAMERON TRINGALE: I think it matches well.  You have to be in the fairway off the tee.  The rough is so penal, and if you get in the wrong spot on the green, it's also very difficult.  So I think it suits my game well, and I didn't even remember that round.  But thanks for reminding me.   
 Q.  You're feeling a little under the weather.  Are you feeling okay?  How will you cope with that during the round today?  
CAMERON TRINGALE: I feel a little bit better than I did yesterday.  I think it just helps me kind of get loose slowly and take my time yesterday and think things through.  On a golf course like this, so severe with the rough and the greens, really getting that extra couple seconds before you make a decision was good for me.   
 Q.  Birdied three of the first four, 4-under for the day and no bogeys on the card.  That's a nice start.  
CAMERON TRINGALE: Thank you.  I made a couple nice putts on 1 and 3 and that kind of jump started my round.  Hit a nice wedge on 4 and just played steady.  There are some tough holes there into the wind.  5 and 8 were really tough.  Was glad to get out of there with some pars.   
Scrambled a bit coming in, but made another birdie on 12.  It was a good round.   
 Q.  How tough is the golf course, because if you hit it in the rough it can be pretty nasty?  
CAMERON TRINGALE: No doubt.  You have to be in the fairway out here, and the wind was really inconsistent early in the round.  We had the same hole straight downwind and straight into the wind.  It was a bit tough to judge, so on those holes, just played a bit more conservatively and it worked out.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT