ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 26, 2015
Cameron Tringale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Here with Cameron Tringale, a long day, long week all around and looks like you're going to fall one short.   How would you assess this week in your mind?  
    CAMERON TRINGALE:   It was a great week for me.   You know, I missed the cut last week, went home, regrouped, worked on a few things just to tighten up my game, and came and had a great week.   To just be one back after it's all said and done, you know, obviously it's disappointing.   I had a shot, a putt at it, but it was a great week.  
   
 Q.   It was a great second shot there from 18, 270.   I was saying there was no way you should be going for it in two, lay it out to the left, and you hit a brilliant second shot.   What was going through your mind before you hit that chip shot?  
    CAMERON TRINGALE:   You know, there aren't many chances to win out here, so I'm in position where I'm trying to play fearless golf and play the shot at hand to give myself a realistic chance at a 3, I felt like I needed to at least get it up around the green.   So that's what I was thinking.  
   
 Q.   Overall a great week, Cameron, best of luck the rest of the year.   
    CAMERON TRINGALE:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   Cameron, I thought you did everything you had to to win.   Someone just played better.   
    CAMERON TRINGALE:   You know, I didn't watch the boards.   I heard a huge roar when I was on 16, so I assume that was Justin making a birdie there at the end.   I played great, you know.   I missed a few short ones on the Back 9, ones that I normally make, but I made my share of putts out there this week for sure, and really happy with the way I just hung in there, you know.   I was only 8‑under through five holes in the third round and just kind of kept my head down and pressed on forward.  
   
 Q.   I thought momentum really swung at the 13th.   The drive just got away from you.   Was it a double cross?  
    CAMERON TRINGALE:   No.   I was trying to play a draw.   The wind was off the right, so I thought I could work it in, and I just left it out to the right.  
    But I felt comfortable with the shot, and you know, that happens sometimes.  
   
 Q.   14, 15 and 16 you had great looks and I thought made great putts.   They just didn't tumble down.   
    CAMERON TRINGALE:   Yeah, I hit it great‑‑ I was proud to come back after that bogey.   I hit a great 4‑iron on 14 and then a good 5‑iron on the next hole, and I gave myself all the chances in the world to do it, but they just didn't roll my way in the end.  
   
 Q.   Great day.   Your time is coming.   Thank you.   
    CAMERON TRINGALE:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   Cameron, Sunday 65, a very solid round, falling just short.   All in all how pleased are you with today and the week as a whole?  
    CAMERON TRINGALE:   I'm pleased.   I did not start well the third round last night, three‑putted my last hole from close range, and you know, I didn't let it bother me.   I knew I had a fresh start, it was going to be a long day today, and I'm just proud of the way I hung in there and pressed on.   I think I was 13 under the last 29 holes, so I really went on a nice run there, and you know, it's a great event here at Zurich, and you know, to finish one back is still a pretty good week.  
   
 Q.   We spoke earlier in the week about this event, this golf course.   You love this place.   You love everything about it.   What do you take moving forward from here?  
    CAMERON TRINGALE:   You know, I did what I needed to do out there for the most part.   I hit a lot of great shots on the Back 9, and mentally was right where I needed to be.   I had supreme rhythm out there, and just did what I needed to do.   So I was proud that I stayed right where I was and played the shot at hand.  
   
 Q.   Cameron, you broke the course record, but you still lost by a stroke.   Just talk about how well you played this week, but still one stroke short there.   
    CAMERON TRINGALE:   Yeah.   Golf's a game against yourself, and I went out and had a great week this week.   Justin played one shot better.   And you know, it would have been nice to have the shot there at the end, but you know, I did a lot of things really well this week and I'm going to take a lot of positives moving forward for the rest of the year.  
   
 Q.   You were pretty close on 18 to get the eagle there.   Just talk about almost holing out there for eagle.   
    CAMERON TRINGALE:   Yeah, I just had that little pitch from the front of the green, and it was into the green, so I had to make sure I flew it far enough on the green, but just came up a wee bit short.   But hit a good shot and was comfortable out there, and that's really pleasing for me.  
   
 Q.   Is it someone shot or one hole this week you say, golly, I'd like to have that one back, it eventually cost me?  
    CAMERON TRINGALE:   That's golf, isn't it?   I mean you can always think about the could haves.   But I did so many things well, and I made a goal to be moving on, put a good hole behind me and move forward, put a good hole behind me and move forward.   So I was able to do that, and that's golf.   So I'm not going to dwell on it.  
   
 Q.   So to shoot 21 and not win?  
    CAMERON TRINGALE:   I guess there's a lot of great players in the Zurich Classic here, and Justin Rose is a Top 10 player in the world, a major champion.   It would have been fun to have a chance against him, for sure.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT