ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 24, 2015
Cameron Tringale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Cameron, a sweet start and a sweet finish for you.   Let's start with the start and your eagle at the 2nd?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   Yeah, it was a good start.   I got off the first few holes yesterday.   I birdied the first three on the front side, so I knew I had to keep pace and made a nice birdie at the first.   Then the eagle at 2 I holed a little pitch from the side of the bunker and just got where I'm going.  
   
 Q.   There are some players that tend to protect out here.   I think you're a player that likes to go deep and weren't afraid to put up another 65.   
CAMERON TRINGALE:   I mean, there is so much golf to be played.   You know the guys are going to go out this afternoon and shoot some low scores, so there is really no let up.   They're all worth the same when Sunday rolls around.  
   
 Q.   You've had a lot of your contemporaries post wins.   How has your patience been because you certainly have the game to win out here?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   I'm fine.   Yeah, I don't think that much about it, to be honest.   I'm trying to get better every week and just be in position more.   I feel like my game is one that thrives under the heat, so I think just getting those opportunities I'm going to play some better golf.  
   
 Q.   You know, Billy Crampton has been writing about Georgia golfers and all the Georgia golfers that have succeeded out here.   You and Bryce Molder, carrying the flag of the institute this weekend?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   Yeah, it's great to have some support out there.   I played with Charlie Rymer on Wednesday in the Pro‑Am.   It's a lot of fun to keep our Tech guys together.  
   
 Q.   Quick start, solid finish.   65, bogey‑free.   How pleased are you with the day?   
CAMERON TRINGALE:   I'm pleased.   This is my first bogey‑free round of the year, something that we all love as players.   I gave myself a lot of opportunities and I made some putts, chipped in once.   It was just a solid round of golf.   I like the way that things are going, and I'm excited for the weekend.  
   
 Q.   We talked earlier in the week that you had the weekend off.   Last week you sort of regrouped and worked on a couple little things.   How satisfying is it to see a little bit of a payoff two days in?   
CAMERON TRINGALE:   It's great.   I mean, it seems like it's the best decision I've made in a while to go home.   I guess just build some confidence, get back on that track of where I'll be out here week in and week out.  
   
 Q.   You also told me you love this place.   How excited are you for the prospects on the weekend?   
CAMERON TRINGALE:   I'm excited.   Zurich Classic is one of my favorite events of the year.   The golf course suits my game.   It's is so fun to stay downtown in the city of New Orleans.   I think (Indiscernible).   I'm going to enjoy being here, and it always helps you stay relaxed.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT