THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 27, 2020
Cameron Tringale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Good playing for you; how tough was it this morning? Did it get better as the day went on?
CAMERON TRINGALE: It was tough from the start. I think we got fortunate, we started on the front, so we got a few of the easier holes to start, so our whole group got off to a really nice start, and then it was a battle. Once we turned up 6, it was game face on, and played -- can't take a shot off out here.
Q. 26 putts, that's really good playing around here. The greens to me look like they're the best they've been in several years.
CAMERON TRINGALE: The greens are rolling great, and you miss enough greens and chip it close and putt it close, that's kind of where I saved a lot of good pars in the middle of my round. After a good start, I struggled and then finished well.
Q. You're a California guy, but you went to school at Georgia Tech, so you kind of made that shift to the east. Florida golf is different, but you're a veteran, so I guess having played here many times, this place, do you figure it out the longer you play it?
CAMERON TRINGALE: Yeah, my wife and I live down the street, so I play on Bermuda when we're in town here, and yeah, they're great surfaces and they're primed for long putts.
Q. I met your wife at Pebble Beach. You guys are expecting. I know that's an exciting time in your lives.
CAMERON TRINGALE: No question, yeah. We're trying to enjoy the last few months of just the two of us, but yeah, we are thrilled and blessed to have our first on the way.
Q. 67, 3-under to get things going. How would you assess your Thursday morning here at Honda?
CAMERON TRINGALE: I'm stoked with the round. It was tough starting off but got off to a good start, and in the middle of the round held it together and then had a nice finish through the Bear Trap, and just the short game kind of bailed me out and kept some momentum throughout the day.
Q. You know it's going to be breezy, cool, overnight rain, what are the challenges of trying to get around here successfully?
CAMERON TRINGALE: I mean, the wind out here is always the biggest defense. This golf course with all the run-offs, it's a second-shot golf course, and it's tough to -- you've got to leave the ball in the right place, so managing my game was really the key to just trying not to put myself -- trying to keep it in manageable spots.
Q. Just one round, how do you continue to build off this knowing that any time you can break par you're ahead of the game?
CAMERON TRINGALE: Yeah, I mean, start over tomorrow and try and do the same thing. Just steady, and it's always a long week here. So just stay positive.
No, everyone is going to have some challenges, and I felt really lucky to get out of there with 3-under.
Q. What sense did you have that there was a good one in you today with your game in a big picture sense?
CAMERON TRINGALE: Honestly, I didn't have that sense at all. I haven't really been feeling particularly great about my game. There have been signs, but it was a tough week of preparation. I mean, it was blowing so hard out here. It's tough to tell if you're hitting it good or if it's the wind or what. I didn't really have any expectations.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT