THE BARCLAYS
August 24, 2014
Cameron Tringale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You treated yourself to a birthday present with a wonderful 66. 
CAMERON TRINGALE:   Yeah, thanks, it was a lot of fun out there.   Being my birthday, I was going to have a great day no matter what and that's been my attitude all week. 
I just played with a peace that surpassed understanding today.   I didn't feel nervous out there.   I felt comfortable and I felt like I was in control of what was going on.   I've just got so much to be grateful for; no matter how this day turned out, it was going to be awesome. 

Q.   Speaking of being at peace and grateful, going back to the PGA, it's now well known that you withdrew and disqualified yourself afterwards, didn't feel right about a possible situation, and I would imagine as with most golfers, when you make a decision like that, it leads to the kind of peace to let you go play forward and play well. 
CAMERON TRINGALE:   For sure.   You know, you don't want to be thinking what if on the golf course.   That's about the worst thing you can do.   I just decided to get it behind me and like I said earlier, I try and live my life above reproach and just seems like the right thing to do.   I was able to come out this week with a clear head and play some golf. 
It was a lot of fun when you're making birdies.   I was seeing my lines on the green and just rolling it down my line.   Match the speed and the line up, and a few of them went in and it was a lot of fun.

Q.   I know you looked at Brendon Todd's par putt on 18 and got a good read, and you got a good portion of the cup on 18. 
CAMERON TRINGALE:   Yeah, I did.   He was on a slightly different angle and his broke to the left and where I was at, I saw it maybe going slightly to the right.   But after seeing Brendon's, I said, if anything, it's going to tail off to the left.   I got up there and played it dead straight and it just broke off a little bit.

Q.   What happened to the drive on 18? 
CAMERON TRINGALE:   I hit a great drive.   It was probably about five yards too far right.   With the wind off the right, I needed to take a strong line with my draw to keep it in the fairway.   Really I was pleased with the swing and got a good break to be in the matted down rough. 

Q.   No matter what happens, you've set yourself up for the rest of the FedExCup Playoffs and with the good finish you move up.   You have to be pleased with that no matter what happens out there. 
CAMERON TRINGALE:   Absolutely.   This year isn't about this year for me.   I'm just trying to build.   This is a big step for that, and no matter how it shakes out, I've played well in some big tournaments, and that's what I need to do to try and get myself to that next level. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT