THE BARCLAYS
August 22, 2014
Cameron Tringale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about your second round a little bit.   
CAMERON TRINGALE:   Second round, yeah, I got off to a slow start, bogeyed the 10th.   Pin was all the way in the back and was tough.   Doubled 12 and so kind of got behind the 8‑ball early and just kind of kept my head up and kept playing.   
I knew I was swinging well and if I gave myself some chances, I could make birdies.   That's pretty much what I did.   That par save on 9 was big just to keep momentum going into tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Is it a good thing when you know you're swinging well, even if you're not playing well at the start that hopefully it will come back a little?   
CAMERON TRINGALE:   Yeah, you're able to be patient.   You're not trying to force it.   You know, with 51 more holes in the tournament, I figured, I've got time to get those shots back.   It worked out.   Didn't try and force it.  
   
 Q.   I don't know if Adam is very intimidating but obviously he's a big name, great player; does it get your juices flowing a little more to be paired with him?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   Being paired with him‑‑ I think my juices would be flowing regardless.   I'm excited.   He's been the No. 1 player in the world just till this last month.   It's very exciting and very cool.   I'm looking forward to the challenge and to a fun day.  
   
 Q.   Have you played with him before?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   We've played together a few times.   I think we played in Boston last year and a couple times this year.   
   
 Q.   Is there something that you can draw from going into this weekend and the position that you're in?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   I don't know that I need to.   I mean, I think I'm just going to keep kind of doing what I've been doing, which is not really getting that worked up about anything.   I think having a good attitude is a big advantage out here, especially in the position I'm in.   
So if I can keep that up and the physical skills stay where they are at, I should hopefully have a chance on Sunday.  
   
 Q.   It is only round two, but did you know where you stood on the leaderboard over the last putt?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   On the 8th green, I saw that I was at the top but I didn't know what had happened in the last 15 minutes.   
   
 Q.   Is patience key going forward on this golf course?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   I think so.   It always is, but this course is just so severe.   You know, I think when you try and force the hand a little bit, you know, it's easy to make a mistake.   So that's going to be one of my biggest goals and challenges, too, the next few days.   
   
 Q.   Are you being extra careful over those three‑inch putts?   
CAMERON TRINGALE:   Yeah, working a lot on those (laughter).   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT