THE BARCLAYS
August 21, 2014
Cameron Tringale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on the day?   
CAMERON TRINGALE:   It was great.   Got off to a nice start with the birdie at 3.   Hunter and Charl, they played great early.   We had great kind of rhythm in the round.   Everyone was playing well and hitting a lot of quality shots, so it kind of felt like I was just trying to keep up.   
As far as me personally, after the birdie at 4, I really settled into the round and had a lot of good chances, made some big saves and kind of in the middle of the round‑‑ closed with a couple birdies which was great.  
   
 Q.   How is the rough?   
CAMERON TRINGALE:   The rough's brutal.   I full‑swinged‑‑ ‑‑ it's worse than it was a couple weeks ago at Valhalla, especially if you just barely miss.   The grass is quite healthy.   The further off the fairway you get, you can get a more trampled lie, but it's penal.   It's great.   You're going to have to hit it in the fairway to compete out here and make it to Sunday.   
   
 Q.   Over the weekend, you got the news about the PGA Championship, can you take us through how that whole thing came down?   It's a little unusual‑‑ if it was something that was bothering you all week?   
CAMERON TRINGALE:   Basically the process was, the issue had come up in the scoring trailer on Sunday.   I didn't feel like it was a stroke and my competitor agreed.   We agreed on the score and that was fine.   
Although as the week went on, I think like Tuesday I started to kind of review my week, and that came up in my head, is there a doubt, if my playing competitor was doubting what that looked like.   
The more I thought about it, I didn't want the way I play this game or my integrity questioned. So I wrestled with it for Tuesday, spoke to some people, rules officials and stuff, just kind of walked through the events on that hole, and then eventually came to the decision that, you know, there's enough doubt that I want to take myself out.   
The process with the PGA was easy.   I spoke to them.   It took, you know, a few days by the time it hit the media.   But the ball was rolling middle of the week.   
   
 Q.   So who were you playing with, and did he bring it up in scoring after or did somebody else bring it up?   
CAMERON TRINGALE:   Yeah, he brought it up, Matt Jones.   
   
 Q.   So he just asked you, like are you sure about that, but then he was okay with it and he signed your card?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   How much relief did it feel to put it all behind you?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   Definitely better.   I just don't want to ‑‑ the more I played it out in my head, getting down the road of, you know, if I play well, if I make it to East Lake, would I have been there if I did take a five.   
So I just felt like it was better to get it out and take myself out than to just be questioning and doubting and wondering for the rest of my life.   
   
 Q.   When you talked to The PGA of America about it, did they say stuff to you‑‑ did they say, look, you didn't see it so you tell us, or did they try to help you?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   Basically the rules officials I spoke with, one at the USGA and one at The PGA of America, they said, look, no one knows and it's your call.   But you have to make a decision either way.   It can't be, I'm not sure.   
I was put in that position of, okay, I'm either out or I'm living with the question, and so I said, well, I'm take a five and I'm out.  
   
 Q.   And you first called in last Wednesday?   
CAMERON TRINGALE:   I think we first spoke to the PGA Thursday.   
   
 Q.   And then they announced on Saturday?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   Yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT