SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 5, 2014
Cameron Tringale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CAMERON TRINGALE:   It was a good round for me.   I was steady, made a lot of birdies and --  
   
 Q.   Was this a --  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   It was a lot of fun.   I really enjoyed playing with Jimmy and Shawn and had a nice atmosphere out there.   Really hit a lot of good shots and made some putts, putts early on, which kind of gave me some confidence on the greens.  
   
 Q.   How different were the conditions out there today compared to yesterday?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   It was much easier wind-wise.   It wasn't blowing nearly as hard, slightly different direction.   But the greens were definitely firmer and faster, and you really had to think about where you're trying to keep the ball.  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on where you're sitting right now heading into Sunday?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   I think I'm going to have a good afternoon and go try and do what I've been doing all week whenever we get to tee it up between.  
   
 Q.   When you're within striking distance, how tough is that to just stay there and doing what you're doing?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   Honestly I haven't been in this position that often, so, you know, I'm really working on some some things right now, my mental and physical routine, and, you know, that's kind of going to be my baseline for a successful day tomorrow.   I know it sounds cliche.   I've got a vacation planned for next week, so I'm just trying to go out and have fun and see where that ends up, see where I am.  
   
 Q.   How much would you like to change those vacation plans?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   That would be great.   It would be great to play next week, no doubt about that.   But, you know, who doesn't want to play there?  
   
 Q.   When you are fighting something like the weather, though, with the question mark for tomorrow, does that change your approach as far as how aggressive you get?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   No, not really.   I mean, I don't know what the weather, if they're not going to play.   I'm not -- I didn't get that far.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT