SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 28, 2013
Cameron Tringale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PHIL STAMBAUGH:   We'll start.   Very nice 7-under par, 65.   Finished in the Top-10 here last year, had your career best finish in Tampa two weeks ago.   Maybe just talk about your game and how you played today.  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   Well, I'll start with how I played today.   It was very -- it was a very solid day for me.   I hit the ball really well.   I kept it in play off the tee and hit a lot of greens.   So, I had a lot of opportunities and I made the most of the ones that I had when I was close., knocked them in and, you know, my speed was pretty good when I was far away.   Just gave myself a lot of chances and had a nice day on the greens.   
But, game has been good.   I feel like it's been going in a positive direction all year and this is kind of coming together a little bit more on the greens and with my short game and wedges.   That's where I'm at.  
PHIL STAMBAUGH:   Okay.   We're good for questions.  
   
 Q.   Anything you can point to that got you headed in the right direction?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   I started working with new caddy this year and he's helped me kind of tighten up my practicing and my ball striking.   I feel like he's great with watching me hit balls.   He has a good eye to kind of see when I'm getting a little bit off.   He's been helping me a lot in practice, and on the course we just get along well and he's really the only difference from last year.   Nothing else new.   But he's been very helpful for me.  
   
 Q.   What's his name?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   David Clark.  
   
 Q.   How did you get hooked up with him?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   This off-season just through a mutual friend, caddy, and I was looking and he was looking.   So, it was just really good timing for us.  
   
 Q.   You were in a pretty good position at this time last year, weren't you?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   I don't really remember.   I think I played well on Sunday last year, but I couldn't tell you exactly.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you needed a change of caddies, that was the change you needed to make?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   No, it wasn't my call, actually.   But I was looking and I took my time.   I feel like caddies are really important piece of the puzzle, you know, with two heads are better than one and just someone who understands the game and has experience, and he's been great for me.  
   
 Q.   Have you played -- how many times have you played this tournament before and how do you feel like your game suits this course?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   This is my 3rd year here, I believe, and you know, I don't actually feel like it's that great a course for me, but I've played pretty well here.   I think I didn't do much my first year, but last year I had a good week, and, you know, I think the greens are so good and I feel really confident with my putting right now, I'm seeing the ball end over end.   And so it's really nice to just stand up there and know if you read it right, I feel like I'm going to put a good stroke on it that's got a good chance to go in.  
   
 Q.   You've been out here a couple years, you're getting a lot more familiar with some of these courses going back.  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   Helps so much.   I mean, I only played 9 holes on Tuesday with the late finish last week and, you know, felt fine.   I felt like I didn't really even need those 9 holes.   Obviously I've only been here three times, but I feel like I know the holes where you need to be aggressive and I kind of know holes that you make pars you're picking up shots.   Just learning to play those holes the right way, I think, makes a big difference.   I know you don't have to shoot at the flag, you can just take the safe shot and move on, so, it's helped a lot.  
   
 Q.   Was there something different about Tampa than the other tournaments you played this year, kind of a break for you at all?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   I putted really well down the stretch on Sunday, and that just gave me loads of confidence.   You know, makes the ones on Thursday seem a lot easier and just gave me -- just gave me a lot of belief that I can putt and putt well.   You know, the West Coast not much went in.   And so to get on some good greens down in Florida and here makes a big difference.  
   
 Q.   Back to your caddy real quick, what was it about his experience that he's bringing to the table now for you?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   He's just worked with a lot of really great players and so spending time -- he's very much a student of the game, like he loves learning and grew up playing competitively, was a really good player and amateur player, and so being around those world class players for all those years, you know, I think he's just -- just knows what it takes to be really good and so he's trying to help me get there.  
PHIL STAMBAUGH:   Point out Cameron hit 17 of 18 greens today.  
   
 Q.   Why did you miss one?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   I missed it on 18.   I was in the first cut and downwind, hitting a 5-iron in.   I had a 5-iron downwind release like 40 feet, 50 feet on 14, I guess and so I was -- I figured if I just fly it to the front edge, I'd rather be there than on the back shelf.   I took probably half a club less than I needed and, you know, hit it really well but just wasn't quite enough to get there.  
   
 Q.   So a pretty stress-free round of golf today, relatively speaking.  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   Yeah.   I guess 18 was probably that second shot with the kind of wind off the right and the water left, bunker right, not a lot of room, knowing I didn't have enough club to cover on the left side was probably just the most difficult, stressful shot, but felt good to see it take off straight.  
   
 Q.   D.A. Points was using his mom's old putter.   Do you have any clubs in your bags that aren't yours?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   No.  
   
 Q.   Did you or your caddy remark that was the first green you missed?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   I knew and I kind of -- man, I was a little bit frustrated but a little bit joking, too.   Oh, what's wrong?   Oh, I wanted all 18.   I haven't done that in awhile.   Maybe ever out here.   It was a good spot.  
PHIL STAMBAUGH:   Okay.   Anything else?   
Cameron, continued good luck.  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   Thank you, I appreciate it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT