TAMPA BAY CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY EVERBANK
March 17, 2013
Cameron Tringale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CAMERON TRINGALE:   Beginning of the day, just wanted to come out and try to play solid.   I knew that the leaders probably wouldn't go that far, so I just figured if I can stay away from trouble, make a few birdies on the 5s, and at the end of the day, I would be all right.  
   
 Q.   When did you realize that Boo had posted the number and gotten it to 8?   
CAMERON TRINGALE:   I didn't look.   I had no idea.   But I saw he was 6‑under on like the seventh or eighth hole.   I saw he was charging but I didn't know where he finished.  
   
 Q.   So you didn't know that that putt on 18 was to tie Boo for the lead?   
CAMERON TRINGALE:   No, I didn't know.   
   
 Q.   Is that a philosophy that you stick to?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   When I'm playing well, I don't like to look.   I like to just keep my head down and do what I've been doing.   So, no regrets.   It wouldn't have changed the way I hit the putt.   Still trying to make it no matter where the leaders are at.   
   
 Q.   That was a hard putt, too, and you hit a great one.   Looked like it was lining up as it crossed the ridge?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   I had that one a couple times this week already up over that hill.   Just tried to cozy it down there really.   I didn't want to, you couldn't be aggressive, so I just had to get it high and let it fall down on the green.   That's what I tried to do.   
   
 Q.   You needed a good one on Sunday, a little short, but how pleased are you with today's performance?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   I'm very happy with it.   Like they say in golf, you can't control what other people do, and I went out and played a really solid round of golf, one of my best of the year.   You know, that's all you can do, and congrats to Boo for playing so well and whoever else finishes.   
   
 Q.   Best finish of the year, what does it do moving forward?   How does it jump start your season?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   I feel like I've been playing well all year, and I just can't really gotten the results.   But my short game was top shelf this week and really made a difference.   Hopefully it just propels me and gives me a little confidence playing the next three, and hopefully four in a row.   It's a nice way to start the trip.   
   
 Q.   Nothing like five birdies and no bogeys to vault up to the top of the leaderboard?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   Yeah, it was nice, no fives on the scorecard today.   That was great, birdieing all the par 5s, those are really the best chances that you have out here.   So when the putts go in on those holes, it feels like you're doing what you're supposed to do.  
   
 Q.   And what was the key?   What was the big deal for you today?   
CAMERON TRINGALE:   I just felt calm.   I've got to be honest, I was just in a place today mentally and spiritually where I felt like it didn't really matter what I did.   You know, it was just easy, like on the putts, I felt like, all right, just do your thing and it wasn't life or death if they went in.   That always helps.  
   
 Q.   It was quite obviously your best finish so far this year.   You're looking for better things in the future, obviously?   
CAMERON TRINGALE:   Yeah, I'd like to get in that winner's circle before that special tournament down in south Georgia, or east Georgia.   But yeah, it was a great week, and hopefully it will get me some momentum for the rest of the year.   
   
 Q.   This could be your highest finish ever, can you talk about what that means to you?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   I'm going the right direction and the things I'm working on in my game are paying off.   Just makes me want to stay on the path I'm on, and, you know, eventually you'll get the week where it happens.   But just looking forward to doing what I've been doing and slowly‑‑ or hopefully quickly, getting better.  
   
 Q.   Are you more excited about the finish or the fact that you went bogey‑free?  
CAMERON TRINGALE:   Going bogey‑free was important to me.   I have tried to really work on my Sunday play.   Going bogey‑free on Sunday is exactly what you want to do, and that's exciting.   The finish is what it is and I'm proud of that.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT