ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 26, 2012
Cameron Tringale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  COLIN MURRAY:   All right.   Cameron, thanks for joining us here in the Interview Room at the Zurich Classic of New Orleans.   7-under, 65 start off here.   Got off to a bit of a rough start but then 4 birdies to close. 
If could just talk a little bit about your round today and we'll go to guess.
CAMERON TRINGALE:   I got out of the gate nice, a couple pars and then on the third hole I missed the green to the right and I chipped up pretty close and just kind of misjudged the wind, but from then on, it was just fairways and I'd say greens but the truth is I missed a few but my short game was really tidy, was always chipping it up to tap-in length and just putted the ball well.
.   When I had chances to make birdies I was making them and made a couple 20-footers as well.   So, turned into a good day. 
COLIN MURRAY:   We were talking on the way over here, you come in off a two Top-10 finishes, the Shell Houston Open and the Valero Texas Open last week. 
Talk about your form coming in and your approach this week and then we'll open it up.
CAMERON TRINGALE:   My game felt really nice for quite sometime and don't know how to explain it.   Just playing with a little confidence and it goes a long way in this game but everything is in order and, you know, I feel comfortable off the tee, iron game is pretty solid and my short game has just been really fantastic the last couple months.   So, bringing it altogether and I can have some good weeks.
COLIN MURRAY:   Okay.   We'll go to questions.

Q.   Can you explain, other than the two Top-10s, the confidence that you're playing with now, what has turned things on for you?
CAMERON TRINGALE:   I guess I feel comfortable with my game so I guess I don't feel like I have anything I'm trying to avoid.   I can just go out there and try to hit the shots that need to be played and be confident that I can hit them instead of trying to play away from certain shots.   I feel comfortable hitting them all. 
And my short game has been really good.   That always frees you up to, you know, maybe be a little more aggressive with your approaches.

Q.   Talk about closing with four straight birdies and now you finished with 8-under on the last 14.
CAMERON TRINGALE:   Yeah.   On 15, that flag was really tough spot on the left and I was honestly just playing short and right of it and I made a 25-footer up the hill. 
And then 16, I was in the bunker and I hit a great little chip 8-iron from like 120 to about ten feet.   Holed that.
And then 6-iron on 17, 20 feet, made it and 18, played right down the middle.   I had a weird yardage.   I decided to play it left of the bunker and try to pitch on. 
And I didn't really think about the four birdies when I finished.   "Wait, how many was that?"   It's nice when you go and get in those zones and you're just seeing the shots and that's really what I was doing all day.

Q.   Can you give us just a little bit about your background?   I think you played college golf at Georgia Tech and just give us a little more details about who you are.
CAMERON TRINGALE:   I grew up in Southern California.   I have an older brother who plays golf and growing up we were -- we always played together.   I was always trying to beat him.   He's two years older. 
Love competing.   And so we played a lot growing up and knew I kind of wanted to play in college but wasn't sure and I got the chance to go to Georgia Tech and from then decided that I was going to focus on playing golf professionally, hopefully out on this Tour, and I had a great experience in college, stayed all four years and played on some good teams, had some good teammates who I learned a lot from and you know, I got out of Q-School my first time and tried -- just trying to get better.   And it's a tough game.
COLIN MURRAY:   All right.   Cameron, thanks for you time.   Play well the rest of the week.
CAMERON TRINGALE:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT