JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2019
Cameron Tringale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Cameron Tringale, thanks for joining us for a few minutes.  Great round today, got off to a rough start with a bogey at the first but finished with a 6-under 65 today.  Great round, just a few comments on today.   
CAMERON TRINGALE: Yeah, the bogey at the first was a shot in the leg, just because you know you've got to shoot a low round out here to stay in the mix.  But was able to get out of there myself and birdie the next two, which gave me some momentum, a little confidence.  I kind of felt like I was on pace, if you will, heading into the middle of the front nine.  Then just hit some great iron shots throughout the day and was able to convert a good number of the approaches.   
It was a great day, a lot of fairways and a lot of greens.   
 Q.  Have you been seeing this kind of building and building?  
CAMERON TRINGALE: I've felt like my game has been strong really this whole season or this whole year at least, and definitely a little bit more momentum as the summer started.  I think playing the first really good tournament I had was at the Zurich team event when I played with Roberto Castro, and we just had a lot of fun, hit a lot of good shots, and we finished fifth there, also.   
So I think I started to roll a little bit after that tournament.  Just confidence wise.   
 Q.  Did that sort of feed into your realizing that you need to not live and die with every shot?  
CAMERON TRINGALE: Yeah.  We were college teammates.  We had a lot of fun when we used to play in school, competitive but fun, and I think that's when I can play my best golf is when I'm loose and I don't let the things get to me.  But we all know it can happen when you play this game.  It was definitely fun and refreshing.   
 Q.  Knowing how tight this leaderboard is, Sunday at the deer always tends to lead to a playoff or close finish.  How do you not get caught up in leaderboard watching and focusing shot to shot on what you're doing?  
CAMERON TRINGALE: I think you just said it there.  You're just trying to play each hole the best you can.  No lead I think is safe out here with this kind of golf course and setup.  So my mindset was just get one more, just get one more all day because you never know where you'll be Sunday afternoon.  And so just playing it as it comes.   
 Q.  Michael Kim said last year that he had trouble chilling out the next before hanging on to the lead.  What's your mindset showing up here tomorrow?  Just do what's been working for you?  
CAMERON TRINGALE: Exactly.  I won't change a thing about tomorrow's preparation.  I think one of the things that's worked well for me this week has just been trying to play instinctively, not over-think, and go with my gut reaction, my gut on the club selection from the fairway, and that's proven to work pretty well.  So even though tomorrow is a big day, a lot on the line, I'm going to try and default to instincts and not trying too hard.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
CAMERON TRINGALE: Uh-huh, not really.  Swing hard.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  We can look you up on Pgatour.com or whatever, but how would you describe your career so far?  
CAMERON TRINGALE: You know, I think as a competitor and looking at how I played in college, my career has been up and down, steady.  I've had a couple of really good seasons making the TOUR Championship and have finished high in some big events.  So I think there's been some of that but not the consistency that I probably expected.  And so golf has taught me a lot just about pacing yourself.  I think people will look at a career and I think longevity is a big part of that, not just playing great for a little while, and so I'm proud of the fact that I've been out here 10 years now.   
Always could be wanting a little bit more, but I'm very thankful for where I'm at.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT