SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 25, 2018
Cameron Tringale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Really good day.  First group off.  Look pretty bad when you tee'd off, the weather, but you made the most of it.
CAMERON TRINGALE: Yeah, it was supposed to be Noaic out there and we got really fortunate with the weather.  Really just made a nice putt on the 1st hole, probably a 15-footer, and did the same on 2 and 3.
Just kind of was seeing the lines really well on the greens and tried not to overthink it.
Q. Yeah, eight birdies.  You missed only four greens.  That was the key.
CAMERON TRINGALE: Yeah, I struck the ball nicely.  The few fairways I missed most of the time I was able to get back in position.  Yeah, it was a good day ball striking in some tough conditions.
Q. What did you think of this golf course?
CAMERON TRINGALE: I like it.  It's fun to play.  The greens are -- with all the water were still really quick.  You got to hit all the shots out here.
It's a great golf course.
Q. Dennis Paulson in the booth for us this week.  I know you guys have spoken.  He thinks your game is really close.  What do you think?
CAMERON TRINGALE: We'll see.  Proof is in the pudding.  See how the next three days go.  I'm pleased with today and looking forward to the rest of this tournament.
Q. Pretty solid first round here at the Sanderson Farms Championship.  What did you make of the play today given the rain that came through?
CAMERON TRINGALE: I'm really pleased with the way I played.  I struck the ball well and had a lot of nice putts and made eight birdies.  I was able to bounce back when I made a mistake, and that just helped the flow of my round, which is really important out here.
Q. How did the rain react to this golf course?  Seems like the greens were in great condition yesterday; how did they hold up today?
CAMERON TRINGALE: Greens were phenomenal.  They were so quick.  It was a little wet in the rough a few places, but the water did not take at this course.  It's in great shape still.
Q. At the Web.com Championship you and I discussed how much of a grind 2018 has been.  To be able to have a round like this under your belt, what kind of momentum can you use from this?
CAMERON TRINGALE: We'll see, but it's definitely nice to have a good opening round like this in this tournament and just something to build off.  I'll take all the positives I can and replay the good shots in my head tonight.  Hopefully I have a few more days like it.
Q. Anything you did differently coming into this week?
CAMERON TRINGALE: Not really.  I had an enjoyable couple weeks off, and just trying not to take it too seriously.
Q. Anything specific with your putting that was working well?  Just some went in?
CAMERON TRINGALE: I think I was just seeing the lines really well.  I knew they were still going to be quick even with all the water, so just tried not to overthink it.
Just said, Yeah, there has been water, but let's just play.  Made a few on the first couple holes and just the confidence grew from there.
Q. It's your lowest opening round since 2016.
CAMERON TRINGALE: Nice to get off to a good start.  Something to build on for the next few days and not overthink it.  Good opening round.
Q. With the wind out there, I mean, especially like I think 11, 12, 13 it really started coming down on you guys.
CAMERON TRINGALE: Yeah, it definitely picked up that stretch.  Just tried to keep the ball in front of you and try and stay on the fat side.  If it was left or right, just make sure you keep the ball far enough left.
I was able to keep it right there.  Didn't overcross any of those.  Yeah, just hit it well and navigated those holes well.
Q. The rough can be tough to deal with even when it's not this wet.  When it is, what difference does that make?
CAMERON TRINGALE: Ball comes out a little slower typically.  I had one that just only probably went 100 yards in the air and looked like a pretty good lie.
Just a little more unpredictable I think when it's wet.
Q. What's the secret to playing well at the Web.com Championship and you need a good finish to keep your card?
CAMERON TRINGALE: No secrets.  I think just good timing, and I really like that golf course.  I think when you're close to losing your card I think you have a lot of perspective.  I think I just played a little bit differently than feeling like I had to play well.  That wasn't my feeling.  I just played knowing I would kind of have to live with the result either way.
Q. Freer or...
CAMERON TRINGALE: A little more free and a little more focused, I would say.  Still paying attention to what I'm doing, but knowing the outcome is four days away I think I could just play without fear of the result.
Q. Something that you were struggling with in that season that's going better now?
CAMERON TRINGALE: Physically I drove it really poorly last year, and it was hard to play golf short and crooked.  I've been driving a lot better since the Web finals.  Found a little feel with my longer clubs.  It's helped.  Worked well at Safeway.  Drove it pretty well.
And then brought it here, too.  So driving it better makes all the difference in my game.
Q. What was it?
CAMERON TRINGALE: Well just a rhythm thing and a confidence thing.  Like trying to see my shot more clearly and like hit the shot -- try and hit the shot that I'm trying to play instead of thinking about the shot I don't want to have happen.
When you hit a lot of bad ones it's a lot harder than it sounds to get those out of your mind.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT