NCAA MEN'S REGIONAL SEMIFINALS AND FINALS: LOUISVILLE
March 27, 2019
Paul White
Payton Pritchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Kind of first talk about that.
PAYTON PRITCHARD: I mean, nothing really broke the ice.  I mean, to be honest, when I first moved in the apartment with Ehab, I had a little puppy, and she went and pooped in his room.  That's kind of how we broke the ice right away.  I guess that's when we got close, right there.
Q. If a roommate can put up with that?
PAYTON PRITCHARD: Exactly.
Q. It wasn't a deal breaker?
PAYTON PRITCHARD: He was cool with it.  I had to clean it up, though.
Q. Do you have any familiarity with their players?
PAYTON PRITCHARD: Yeah, definitely.  I mean, I grew up with -- through high school with Kyle and Braxton.  And a little bit with -- I've seen Ty Jerome around the circuit.  So I know them a little bit.
Q. What stands out about them?  From where they are to where you guys are.
PAYTON PRITCHARD: Definitely, they're great players and they keep increasing their talent and their game.  So that's why they're the No. 1 seed.
Q. Never back down from a challenge?
PAYTON PRITCHARD: Exactly.
Q. What does it mean to be able to play the 1 seed?
PAYTON PRITCHARD: It's exactly what we want, to go against supposedly one of the best teams in college and go against the best.  We've got 40 minutes, so give them everything we got.
Q. Sounds like they don't allow offense -- do you see this as a big battle in the paint for you guys down low?
PAYTON PRITCHARD: For all of us, they've got great guards, great bigs.  Everyone should look at is as a challenge to prove themselves tomorrow.  We're going to be ready, and it's on a great stage tomorrow, a great 40 minutes.
PAUL WHITE: Their offense, the person after them is going to read their defense, how they play defense.  So, like, every person in the group on the team, we use that section.  So there's no one left out, there's not someone dominating the conversation.
Q. And do you guys do any kind of walk through after?
PAUL WHITE: No.  Well, when it's just amongst us, it's just the scouting report.  But then we'll get together with the coaches to watch film.
Q. So for this one in particular, (inaudible), when you have three guys, how different is that compared to, frankly, some of the opponents?  You have a really dominant guy like Happ or (indiscernible).  This is quite a balance of really strong rebounders and a great distributor, great 3-point shooter.
PAUL WHITE: Oh, for sure, for sure.  But one thing is there's only one basketball out there.  So you can have three great players, but it's only one ball.  So I think one thing we have to kind of just try to be conscious of is just trying to keep the ball out of their hands as much as possible or make other people make plays or kind of...






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT