NORTH TEXAS LPGA SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
April 30, 2014
Brittany Fan
Sammi Stevens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   It is my pleasure to welcome in our two collegiate shootout qualifiers this week at the North Texas LPGA Shootout, Brittany Fan and Sammi Stevens.   You guys shot 68s on Monday to qualify for this event, the first LPGA event for each of you.   Brittany, start us off how this whole experience has been for you.   Talk about how excited you are this week.   
BRITTANY FAN:   I'm really excited this week.   Any chance I get a chance to play with the LPGA, which are the best in the competition, I would get to learn so much.   I love watching them play, and I'm looking forward to it.   
THE MODERATOR:   Sammi, happy birthday I guess we can say, 22 today.   This is a pretty special week, and you just said you're coming off a conference win with the University of New Mexico Lobos.   You said you're on cloud nine.   Talk about how happy you are to be here and what this experience has been like for you.   
SAMMI STEVENS:   Yeah, this has just been unbelievable.   It's just a one‑day qualifier.   You go out, and you never know how it's going to go.   Just happened to get hot that day, and I'm so honored to be here.   This is really neat that this event allows two high school and two college players to get in.  
THE MODERATOR:   Give us your thoughts on the course.   I know you guys had a little differing views.   Talk about the course, how it suits your game and what you'll try to do this week to go low.   
BRITTANY FAN:   Well, my goal is to shoot red numbers every day, and I think that will be enough to make the cut.   But of course I'd love to be in contention.   
I think the course is really nice.   It's kind of quirky because you have some dogleg left but the fairway goes right, and then vice versa.   I think the bunkers are tough, but I have adjusted my swing and now it's better.   
THE MODERATOR:   I know you said you were going to go back to the range after your round and work on a couple things.   How did that go and what were you working on?   
BRITTANY FAN:   Well, I was having some issues with my tee shots on the qualifying round.   I was coming too much over the top, and my finish was too low, kind of like a cut finish.   So I had to get the feeling of dropping underneath and then finishing more out.   So worked on that.   
THE MODERATOR:   Sammi, what about you?   
SAMMI STEVENS:   I feel like this course is definitely a positioning course.   You have to get precise as far as where you want to be in the fairway.   I think it's going to be just really key to have my short game sharp this week.   It's playing a little longer than your typical college course, a lot of long irons, might not hit as many greens as you're used to, so as long as I can keep my short irons sharp, I think I'll be in good shape.   
Like Brittany said, right around par or better I think would be a good goal, and hopefully we can both make the cut.   
THE MODERATOR:   I laughed when you said you're 22 but you feel like the old lady next to her.   You're graduating in a couple weeks from University of New Mexico.   Congratulations on that, but you've been through four years now of college golf.   She's just starting in Colorado this fall.   What advice do you have for her to hopefully expand the college experience or what she can do to hopefully succeed in those four years?   
SAMMI STEVENS:   I think just try to enjoy it as much as you can.   I know for me it was quite a growing experience just as a person and as a golfer.   The biggest thing is just to be as organized as you can.   With all the traveling and schoolwork, if you can just keep on top of everything, it makes your life a lot easier.   
   
 Q.   For both players, can you just talk about what the experience has been like this week and have you picked up any advice from players?   
SAMMI STEVENS:   It's just been pretty incredible so far.   I think the biggest thing is when you're just practicing with all these pros, it's just like you're one of them, and I think that by far is just the coolest part for me.   It's been pretty awesome getting the VIP treatment really.   It's just been unreal.   
THE MODERATOR:   What's been the biggest surprise out of an LPGA event that you thought, oh, wow, these girls get this every week?   
SAMMI STEVENS:   I think it's just awesome.   You've got all the medical van and like all the grips and everything you can think of, really.   It's just everything is here.   You don't really have to worry about anything else.   
BRITTANY FAN:   I think it's cool being inside the ropes.   It's kind of different.   It's not what everyone thinks.   I enjoy watching how players interact with each other.   I think it's cool.   Everyone is friendly, but when they step on the course it's competition, so I think that's really cool, a different mindset.   
I do like the VIP treatment, and I do think it's cool everyone opens doors for you and everything.   I like it.  
THE MODERATOR:   Stacy Lewis was in here just a little earlier and we asked her if she had any advice for you guys, and she loves the idea of having college players come in, and she said just to take in as much as what the professionals do in practice.   Have you guys watched them and anything that kind of stuck out to you what they do in their preparation which is a huge part of their game?   
BRITTANY FAN:   I like the fact that they focus solely on what they're doing.   So they're not really distracted.   There's always someone there helping them, so because you can't see yourself when you're swinging or putting, they always have someone there to watch it for them.   
   
 Q.   Caddies this week, what do you have?   I know moms are both here from the qualifiers, your dad flew in from Hawai'i, your coach is here, your dad is driving from home in Texas.   What about your crews here?   Who's going to be caddying for you and who's going to be here with you?   
BRITTANY FAN:   I had my coach fly out from Hawai'i, back there in the corner.   
SAMMI STEVENS:   I actually ran into a caddie yesterday, his nickname is Bully, and he's from Hawai'i.   He knows my assistant coach Britney Choy, and he's typically a Tour caddie but he's doing it kind of as a favor to my coach, so it worked out.   
   
 Q.   I was just going to ask Sammi, with this being your birthday this week, how much does this feel like a magical week to you?   What do you feel like is capable for you going forward?   
SAMMI STEVENS:   It really does feel like a magical week.   I feel like I haven't even come down from our conference win last week.   This is just pretty spectacular.   It's an honor to be here.   After the qualifying day, it was a good way to see that I am capable of scoring on this golf course.   I've just got to keep it simple out there.   Golf is golf; I can't get too overwhelmed and just stay in the moment.   
THE MODERATOR:   Sammi, I know you said your plans are to try to hopefully hit the pro circuit.   What will that do for you this week if you say you were to be able to play well?   Obviously you've already scored low on Monday, but how much would that do for your confidence to know that you competed against the world's best?   
SAMMI STEVENS:   Yeah, I mean, that would be huge.   I'm guaranteed two days already and just this whole experience I've learned so much.   Kind of more than anything, you have to be okay with the lifestyle.   It's tough traveling and all this, and I've been gone for about a week and a half now straight, but I'm loving it.   That's been the biggest test for me that it really seems to fit, and I'm excited to try it in this next year.  
THE MODERATOR:   I know you mentioned Britney Choy, your assistant coach.   I actually knew her when she was on the Symetra Tour.   Has she given you any advice about turning pro or just this week?   Have you spoken with her?   
SAMMI STEVENS:   Yeah, she actually texted me happy birthday this morning and just was telling me just to enjoy every minute of it and learn as much as you can.   Just enjoy it.   That's why I'm here.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you both for coming in.   Enjoy your week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT