NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 25, 2008
Peter Mueller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  I'm with Peter Mueller of the Phoenix Coyotes.  What's it like playing for the great one?  Your first year in the National Hockey League and you're playing for Wayne Gretzky?  That's got to be a thrill in itself?   
 PETER MUELLER:  It definitely is.  Most importantly he's a great guy away from the ice.  And that's what really counts.  It just transfers over to the ice rink.  He's a great guy when he wants to get those points.  He's definitely a great coach.   
  
  Q.  I don't know this for a fact.  But I probably somewhat doubt that last summer you were thinking about being at the NHL All-Star Game here in Atlanta this year.  When you found out that you were going to be part of the Young Stars game, what were your feelings?  And what did you do first of all?   
 PETER MUELLER:  It's definitely a big thrill for me.  I definitely didn't think this a year ago.  But I'm here now, I'm very proud to represent myself and the Phoenix Coyotes.  Hopefully just have a great weekend.   
  
  Q.  I want to go back to your team, the Phoenix Coyotes.  Because so many people and you heard it time and time again in September and October had selected the Phoenix Coyotes for last place in the National Hockey League.  Wayne Gretzky at that point in time said this team can make the playoffs.  You've got to be feeling pretty good right now based on the way that you've been playing?   
 PETER MUELLER:  Yeah, I think we've been playing great so far.  We had a little rough patch, you know, the first couple of games.  But we're picking up our play very well the last couple of months.   
 Hopefully it transfers over to after the All-Star break.   
  
  Q.  Outside of your coach, Wayne Gretzky, who in the organization as far as your teammates have helped you adjust to life in the National Hockey League the most?   
 PETER MUELLER:  I think the biggest is Shane Doan, he's a great role model, great captain and great person.  You can look up to him as much as you want.  He's probably the biggest person that's helped me jump from junior to the NHL.   
  
  Q.  Your team early in the season was so good on the road, and they had great difficulties at home.  Did you scratch your head and try to figure out what the heck was going on and why you would be so good on the road and really struggle at home?   
 PETER MUELLER:  I don't think I have an answer to that.  It's definitely tough.  You obviously want to win at home, and want to win on the road.  But it was just a tough patch for us.  Now we're trying to find ways to win at home, and that's what we're doing right now.   
  
  Q.  Enjoy yourself the next few days here.  And good luck for the remainder of the season.   
 PETER MUELLER:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT