BIG TEN CONFERENCE MEN'S HOCKEY CHAMPIONSHIP
March 17, 2017
Steve Rohlik
Nick Schilkey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Wisconsin - 2, Ohio State - 1   
STEVE ROHLIK: Obviously a disappointing end for us today.  You know, certainly wasn't the way we wanted to finish this game, but again, give Wisconsin credit.  We knew it was going to be a tight game.  We knew they would play hard and try not to give up much, and we figured the same thing.  We just didn't do enough to win the game today.   
 Q.  Nick, you guys had so much success on offense against them just a week ago.  What was the difference today?  
NICK SCHILKEY: Yeah, I think it was just playoff hockey is tight out there, and I think we tried to stretch it out a little too much at times.  We didn't try to expose their D in their zone as much as we could have, but they played a good game, and just couldn't get enough going offensively.   
 Q.  A lot of pressure in you guys' D zone.  What made it tough?  
NICK SCHILKEY: Yeah, certainly.  They were just chipping pucks in, and really it was the same game plan we were trying to have.  I think they just did it a little bit better tonight.  But when that's the case, as forwards we've got to back the to pucks, help our D out, and I think at times we were trying to stretch it out a little too much, didn't help them enough.   
 Q.  From your perspective, what did they do to shut down your offense tonight?  
STEVE ROHLIK: Just played hard.  You know, I mean, again, same thing we tried, time and space, and when you don't have a lot of room, you're not going to generate a lot.  Again, give them credit.  Same thing we were trying to do, and when you look at the game, it was at times a ping-pong match, and at the end, the shots were down low.  For us, we just needed to try to generate a little bit more.   
 Q.  What was your view of Healey's hit there?  I know that's kind of been a problem this year.  
STEVE ROHLIK: I didn't even see it.  It was on their bench, on the bench side.  If you stand on the bench, you can't see down to the right, so I didn't see it.   
 Q.  At the beginning of the year, you talked about you guys want to be in a position to be an at-large bid without winning the tournament.  Now you're there; do you think you guys have done that?  
STEVE ROHLIK: I think that's up to the computer to figure out, I guess.  But you know, hopefully we have, but obviously we need a few things to go our way yet.   
 Q.  It's difficult to beat a team three times in a row.  You guys had so much success against them last week.  Were you expecting kind of a different Wisconsin offense and defense than what came out there today?  
STEVE ROHLIK: Well, I think the same attitude when they beat us twice in a row.  We're going to go in there and do the best we can with a little chip on our shoulder, and same thing they did today.  Again, I think it was a good hockey game.  It was a playoff-type hockey game where the score is going to be down, and it's going to be a chance either way, and that's the way the game went tonight, and that's what I expected.   
 Q.  Obviously you've had two senior goalies on this team that have done so much for this program.  What went into the decision to go with Matt, and obviously just your thoughts on his play?  
STEVE ROHLIK: Well, I think his play speaks for itself here at the end.  It's just one of those things, again, early in the year, it was Frey, then he got hurt, then it was Tommer.  He was on a run, then Frey went on a run.  Tommer came in and played great at the end.  I've got a lot of confidence in both of them, but certainly our goaltending was very good here.   
 Q.  Did they do a better job of handling your transition quickness than last weekend?  Seemed like maybe that was something that was more open for you last week than it was tonight.  
STEVE ROHLIK: Well, I mean, one, the rink is a little bit bigger at Wisconsin, so that gives you a little bit more time and space.  Again, they did a good job of just closing things down.  That's what you've got to do defensively.  To be a good defensive hockey team, that's exactly what you've got to do against teams that want to get up and go is take away time and space, and they did that today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT