BUICK INVITATIONAL
January 21, 2005
Dudley Hart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Dudley Hart, 65, 69.  Dudley, talk about your round today on the South Course.  I know you're glad to be finished with 36 holes.
DUDLEY HART:  Yeah, we ran up to the 9th tee to make sure we got that hole so we could be finished.

Overall my round was more encouraging today, as weird as this may sound.  Didn't really hit the ball well yesterday on the North Course, and didn't drive it well.  I scored well, but I knew that I needed to drive it better on the South Course, because you can't hit it in the rough when the holes are 480 yards.  When they're 400 that's one thing, but 480.

I drove better today, missed a couple of fairways at the end of the I felt like I had better control on my bag today and overall pretty pleased with the round.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
DUDLEY HART:  Yeah, well, especially since -- I don't know what the tee times are going to be, but if we hadn't finished, there will probably be two tees tomorrow, I'm guessing, depending on how many guys get finished.  But potentially I could have come out at 7:30 and played two or three holes or one hole or whatever and then played at 1:00.  So that obviously wouldn't be an ideal situation.  I don't know if it's -- necessarily an advantage, it's just easier.  When you come out in the morning sometimes the greens are fresh, everything is perfect condition.  So that can help you, too.  A lot of times if it's getting dark I may not putt out, sometimes, on a hole, and then come back in the morning, if I have a pretty crucial putt, only because I know the greens are going to be flawless in the morning.  Just from the ease factor, I'd rather not wake up at 5:00 and play one hole.  I've had to do it before, everyone's had to do it out here, but it's definitely easier.
Q.  What did you do during the delay?
DUDLEY HART:  I just sat up in the play lounge, and my wife was up there and we were spending a few quiet moments alone, which we don't get very often anymore.  We were just hanging out.  Everyone was in there, you have a little lunch at first, and sitting in there and looking outside and thinking are we ever going to go?  And everyone was saying, wow, we're probably 15, 20 minutes away from them coming in and saying get out of here, because we figuring 45 minutes or so to get ready and by the time you get out there, we're running out of time.  And they came back in, as soon as we said that, they came in and said okay, be at the tee in 35 minutes, mad dash out the door.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
DUDLEY HART:  No, officially the weather people were around to keep the conversation going.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
DUDLEY HART:  To be honest with you the last two days I just -- especially yesterday I just kind of hung in there.  I know it sounds crazy to shoot 7-under yesterday and just saying hang in there, but I hit 6 fairways out of 14, so that's not -- that wasn't great yesterday.  But fortunately, like I said, fortunately I hit some of the more difficult ones.  When I got it in trouble I got it up-and-down, didn't make any bogeys.  I made -- I think I made two today.  But basically I think I just took advantage of the putts, the good birdie opportunities that I had from 15 feet and in I did a pretty good job the last few days and I didn't make every one of them but I made the bulk of them.  Especially my par putts, made some good up-and-downs.  To go a round and only make a couple of bogeys in two days with the rough as high as it is, it's giving yourself a pretty good chance to play well.
Q.  Where were on the delay?
DUDLEY HART:  On the 7th tee.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
DUDLEY HART:  Yeah -- well, to be -- yeah, I did.  We finished the 6th hole and we honestly -- John and I were talking about how we saw, man, it looks like we're going to get lucky.  When it started to come in we were on the 3rd hole which goes right down towards the beach there.  And we saw it coming in and it seemed very light at first.  And then we finished No. 6, we didn't think about it, I was up on the tee on No. 7, getting ready to hit and they blew the horn.  And I looked back down the 6th fairway and I couldn't see anything.  I couldn't see the guys on the fairway.  I just -- it just came up real quick.  It's done it here before, it's crazy.  It could be the most beautiful day you could ever expect and all of a sudden you couldn't see a hundred yards in front of you.

MODERATOR:  Take us through your round real quick, started on 10.
DUDLEY HART:  I started on 10.

11 I hit a 4-iron about 3 feet right of the hole and made it for birdie.

MODERATOR:  Bogey on 15.
DUDLEY HART:  I made three bogeys.

15 I hit a good drive and hit a 6-iron that came up about 30 feet short and I 3-putted for bogey.

That was it for the front.  Seems so long ago, sorry.

No. 1 I hit a drive down the middle of the fairway, hit a 5-iron to about a foot and got that one in for birdie.

Next hole I hit a good drive down the left side of the fairway, hit a 9-iron to about 12 feet, made that for birdie.

No. 4, hit a good drive down the fairway, hit a 6-iron about 15 feet behind the hole and made that for birdie.

No. 6, I hit a drive down the middle, hit a crappy, not a long ways in, but 3-putt up short of the green, chipped it about 6 feet short of the pin and made that for birdie.

I bogeyed 7, made a drive in the left rough, couldn't get it to the green, hit it short of the green and chipped it up about 8 feet and missed that for par, so bogey there.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT