EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2004
Dudley Hart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
5-under 65 today, great playing.  Tell us about your day.
DUDLEY HART:  Thanks.  I just kind of got off to -- I actually didn't get off to a great start, didn't hit it real well the first few holes, missed a few greens, got it up-and-down and kind of worked my way into the round and started to hit the ball better, gave myself some chances at birdies.

I putted well, made six birdies and one bogey and scrambled a little bit when I needed to.  It was a nice, solid round.
Q.  Just talk about the goals for you the rest of the season.  You got to get your complete exemption in Houston, but I'm sure you have some other goals.
DUDLEY HART:  Sure.  I still have the goal of winning a tournament and I'm trying to reset the goals from there.  Every time I go out to play I'm trying to get my game in shape where I can get in contention and hopefully win, so those goals haven't changed, even in the position I was in a few weeks ago.

I think having that mindset helped me finish pretty well in Houston because I wasn't really thinking I needed to make X amount of money, I was just trying to play as well as I could.  That's what I'm going to continue to try to do.
Q.  Talk about the feel of this event being a very popular tournament, but also it's got a great field, five of the six top guys in the world, so to play well against a great field has to be a good feeling, as well.
DUDLEY HART:  Pretty much every week is a good feel, whether or not you have the so-called main guys or not.  You look at how many different guys win tournaments nowadays, guys a lot of times that a lot of people haven't heard of, and there's so many good players out here that I don't personally look at it and say Tiger is in the field, it's going to mean more to win.  He just happens to be in the field and I try to go about my own business from there.
Q.  Is that more perception of the media and the fans probably than anything?
DUDLEY HART:  I think so, more than the players out here.  I don't think many players get here and go, oh, man, Tiger is playing.  You can tell with I guess the other guys that have won majors last year and the guys that have won tournaments, you can tell guys aren't afraid of anybody out here, so that's a good thing.
Q.  How is your back?
DUDLEY HART:  It's good.  Back is doing well.  I've just been trying to continue doing what the guys are telling me to do.  I take it easy, don't hit a lot of balls after I play, but I'll chip a little bit and work on the short game, which is a good thing.  Hopefully my short game will get better as the year goes.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT