THE BARCLAYS
August 22, 2008
Dudley Hart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You're in a very happy position, 6-under, stunning shot into the last green?
 DUDLEY HART: Well, it was a tough tee shot. Can't draw it off the 18th tee and hit it as far as I could, and unfortunately hit it off the hosel to do that. Left me a long fade, so I had to hit every bit of a 3-iron in there and hit it close and made the putt. 
 It was right on the top of a little ridge that runs parallel with the fairway there and a little bit, a little bit left, and overall hit it pretty straight and it went in. 

 Q. What has been the key for you over the first couple of rounds?
 DUDLEY HART: I would say probably my putter for the most part. I didn't make everything by any stretch but I made a lot of the putts you expected to make, and I feel like you have a chance over the putts. There are some putts that you can make but you have to try to make them carefully. I hit a lot of nice, solid putts and I was not feeling well coming into the week and Stan Utley came out and worked his magic on me on Tuesday and hopefully that can continue for the weekend. 
 Basically what I'm trying to do is just hit down on the ball a little bit more. I have a tendency to have a putter that comes up through quick through the ball, and so I'm trying to feel like I'm popping down on the ball a little more. 

 Q. Are you surprised at the low scores here? 
 DUDLEY HART: A little bit. 9-under, for sure. You know, I don't know that I've got 9-under around this golf course. It's a good test. It's a pretty long golf course. It's playing a little softer. The weather has been so good and the fairways are a little firmer, but the greens are getting pretty hard also, which is kind of a Catch 22. You get a little bit closer to the hole but it's harder to stop the balls quick. 
 The scores are surprisingly low but the greens are good and you can make some putts on it if you get the ball in the right spot.

 Q. Seems like a great venue. 
 DUDLEY HART: This is a great golf course. This is one of the best courses we've played all year for sure.

 Q. You're in good position in the FedExCup, and you could really give yourself a big boost this week. 
 DUDLEY HART: Yeah, to be honest with you, I don't really think about the points, the FedExCup. I'm just trying to play golf, play well and take it like any other tournament. I know that's cliché but just trying to play your best and see where the points put you, basically. 

 Q. Did you see this turning point coming?
 DUDLEY HART: I felt pretty good overall about my ball-striking but I didn't feel great about my putting coming into this week. I worked pretty hard on it this week and like I said Stan Utley came out and I worked with him for a little while on Tuesday and Wednesday a little bit and he gave me some stuff to at least feel like I can hit some good putts. 
 That's a big part of it. If you feel you can get it started on your line and with the right speed for the most part, it helps you with your confidence. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT