THE BARCLAYS
August 21, 2008
Dudley Hart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 4-under par today, this is a tough golf course, you put up a pretty good score.   
 DUDLEY HART: I'm happy with the score. It is a difficult golf course. If you can get the ball in the fairway, the golf course is playing hard and fast today, a little shorter than in the practice rounds, and also the greens got harder so it's hard to get it closer to the hole.   
 I was fortunate to survive some of my bad shots and I putted pretty well today so, that always helps.  
  
  Q. It's always good when you can putt well, but on a hole like 6, a difficult downhill par 4 when you hit it right like that, you have to play smart.   
 DUDLEY HART: Yeah, I had to cut it out in the fairway somewhere short of the green and try to get up-and-down. You're going to have -- unfortunately I don't hit every fairway, and I don't think I'm going to the next three days. So you just have to take your medicine and try to get yourself in a position where you are not going to make any worse than bogey. That's what I was trying to do there. I had to aim it pretty far left, and cut it pretty good, but fortunately I got it up there short of the green and got it up-and-down.  
  
  Q. What did you hit into 8? It's so downhill and from that tee box, you can't feel any wind from back there, and you hit a good shot and it rolled off the back of the green.  
 DUDLEY HART: I was just trying to hit a real nice 4-iron and hopefully bring it down as soft as you could because the greens runs away from you pretty good, too. As soon as I saw where it landed I knew it was going at least if not in the back fringe, into the muff over the green.   
 You're trying to land that ball barely on, especially this afternoon, the greens got pretty shiny and when they get shiny that means they are hard and fast, and we all figured that one was. When I saw that ball land pin-high, I knew that thing was out of here.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT