BUICK OPEN
June 27, 2008
Dudley Hart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about your round.
 DUDLEY HART: I need to get the driver and 3-wood figured out a little bit better. If I can get it in the fairway and in play for me -- I think if I can that do that -- but I got it around. 
 When I did make some mistakes I got it in the right spot and made birdies and I like the way I'm rolling it and hit a lot of good putts. I just didn't have very many good chances. 

 Q. If you don't hit a great drive, you're not going to try any spectacular, just have to give yourself a chance to make par. 
 DUDLEY HART: Exactly, especially when you get under some of these trees that are pretty low to the ground, you don't have a lot of room and a lot of times you're only option is to pitch it out. 
 If I can continue to do the rest of it the next two days and get the ball in the fairway a little bit more -- hopefully I can do that. 
 I hit some good iron shots but just got squirrely with the driver in the middle of the round. I still was able to get on the green and didn't have much option on a few holes. A little disappointed because I feel like I never gave myself any great opportunities. 

 Q. Three Top-10s this year, what's it going to take to break through? 
 DUDLEY HART: I've always felt like if I can get the ball in the fairway, the rest of it I generally won't mess up too much. I think that goes for everybody out here. If you can get the ball in the fairway, generally guys are not going to make that many mistakes. You're going to hit some bad shots, for sure, but it all boils down to making putts. 
 The par on 17 was pretty easy. I'm happy with the round and didn't hit the ball very well off the tee, and I have to get that straightened out. I was very fortunate that I was able to get on the green, and till not make any bogeys.
 If you can hit the ball in the fairway, you can be a lot more aggressive. I went through an eight- or nine-hole span where I didn't have any legitimate birdie putts. 
 For a poor ball-striking round, I'm obviously pretty happy. If I can get the driver straight especially on the weekend and the putter keeps moving, I'll have a good shot. 
 I birdied the first two and then went on a streak where I was hanging on for eight, nine holes and I didn't have any good chances and just kind of ground it out and made two birdies on the last two holes. 
 In this game a lot of times, the worse you drive it -- you have to take advantage of good shots when you get them and know that you have to make birdies. 
 But when you start freaking out every time you miss a putt, the less chance you have to make that next putt. At this point through four rounds, I wasn't having very many decent opportunities, but just have to keep hanging in there, and if I can make a few here and there -- you don't have to shoot 64 every day. If I can have better ball-striking round, hopefully I can get it rolling. 

 Q. How is the course playing?
 DUDLEY HART: It's playing good. It feels like it's firmed up a little bit from yesterday. The fairways were a little bit firmer and the greens are still pretty soft. You know, we played early and if it doesn't rain, hopefully they will firm up on the weekend. 

 Q. Talk about the weather and how important it is for you to get your round in and play when the guys this afternoon may not be able to finish? 
 DUDLEY HART: Well, you don't like to have to deal with rain delays, and it can just be a hassle more than anything. If they get delays, sometimes it can work out to your favor, too. You can get a little bit of rain -- but the golf course can soften up and play easier sometimes, too. 

 Q. What is it about Bo's game that you like?
 DUDLEY HART: He's a real good ball-striker and hits his irons real well. When he gets rolling the ball like he has this week, he can shoot some numbers. We've played a lot of golf together. 

 Q. How is that dynamic? 
 DUDLEY HART: I always root for my buddies, but I would just like to finish one shot better. 
 I haven't played a lot of golf with Daniel. He's a real good iron player, too, from what I remember. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT