NBA DRAFT 2017
June 22, 2017
Jonah Bolden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Could you start out with an opening statement about what you're going to bring to your new team, please.
JONAH BOLDEN: Personally I think I'll bring my length, my ability to get the rebound, push the floor and create for my teammates.  I think that's a great fit for what Philadelphia and my teammates are trying to do for the future.  With Ben being able to create off the rebound, Markelle brings it up and creates.  We've just got a long team, and I feel like I'll fit well.
Q. Obviously your experience at UCLA didn't really go as you imagined it.  A lot of people thought you were going to declare for the draft instead of going overseas.  What led to you doing that?
JONAH BOLDEN: At the time I just felt like I wasn't ready, wasn't satisfied with myself.  I knew I could do more to prepare myself best for the league, for where I'm at right now.  And I just felt I needed to work on a little more things, work on a lot more of my weaknesses, and I did so in 12 months.
Q. What was your experience like playing over in Serbia?
JONAH BOLDEN: Yeah, for me personally, it was the best 12 months of my basketball career in the sense that I matured as a man, and like I said, I focused a lot on my weaknesses and improving them.  Yeah, we went through three coaches.  I take the positives out of that in the sense that they all had different approaches, they all had different systems, and I had to adapt to each and every one of them.
Overall it was a great experience.  My teammates from back there are my brothers now, and I'm thankful for it.
Q. Was that a tough environment to play in?  A foreign country, very cold environment, crazy fans out there, was that difficult to get adjusted to that?
JONAH BOLDEN: Not really.  It wasn't really a culture shock for me.  I played internationally with the Australian team and in the Czech Republic, Lithuania.  I'm from Australia, so the culture shock wasn't a big thing.  Language barrier for the most part wasn't that difficult.  All my teammates and coaches spoke pretty good English.  So really just adapting to the new game.  Style of play in Europe was my biggest thing.
Q. Your dad played 17 years overseas.  What has he taught you about becoming professional and staying in the NBA and having a successful career?
JONAH BOLDEN: Yeah, he's been my No. 1 influence off the court and on the court.  He did play professionally 17 years, and tells me, Carry yourself as a professional.  He said that from day one, treat others the way you want to be treated.  On the court work your butt off.  Buy into the system.  Any coach or any team you're playing for, just buy in.  The ball will come, the shots will come, just buy in, play defense and work hard.
Q. I understand you just signed a two-year deal with Red Star Belgrade.  Do you know what your situation is going to be this year?
JONAH BOLDEN: My plan is to play in the NBA next year.
Q. I know you said you're maybe a 3, maybe a 4.  What do you see your role being in the NBA?  Can you play both positions?
JONAH BOLDEN: Yeah, yeah, I believe I'm a versatile forward.  To me 3 and 4 nowadays in the NBA is kind of a mix between the two, and I feel I can play 3 or 4, both offensively and defensively.
Q. With your contract, is there a buyout provision?  Can you get out of it?
JONAH BOLDEN: Yes, sir, I can get out of it, yes, sir.
Q. How about Ben Simmons?  What kind of relationship do you guys have?
JONAH BOLDEN: As of recently I haven't spoken to Ben.  He reached out within the past couple months.  I spoke to him when I was in Australia.  We had a pretty good relationship, then we came over here and played high school together.  When I went to UCLA and he went to LSU we didn't speak as much.  I'm sure we'll speak a lot more.  We have a lot of stuff in common.
Q. Had you had much contact with the 76ers before the draft?
JONAH BOLDEN: They were in the debate.  A lot of teams had shown interest.  They were one of them.
Q. In addition to Ben Simmons, how much do you know about the Sixers as they're currently constructed?  How much do you know about the franchise and the organization and that crop of players that's currently constructed?
JONAH BOLDEN: Just from watching the past 12 months, the past 12 months is probably the most NBA I've watched.  I bought League Pass the third day I was in Serbia, and I watched in the beginning in the hopes of watching Ben, seeing how he did.  Obviously he didn't play, but I still kind of followed them, and like I said, I liked their style of play, their running, for the most part they're a younger team, they run the floor.  Coach Brown is great at also giving his players freedom and believing in their abilities to play within in that system.
Q. Do you think you fit in well with that style of play that they favor under Coach Brown?
JONAH BOLDEN: Yeah, yeah, no doubt.
Q. The Sixers obviously with Ben Simmons have an Australian connection with Brett Brown, as well, who was a Boomers coach and has good connection with the country.  How do you think those people in those positions can help you become more accustomed to the NBA and then get to the place you want to be as quickly as possible?
JONAH BOLDEN: I think that helps.  You know, having an Australian coach, having Australian teammates definitely helps.  You know, I just know I can approach them off the court and know I can speak to them on a daily basis about anything.  I know that coming from Australia, we all have each other's backs, so that definitely helps.
Q. There was an under-19 team where you weren't a starter and I don't think Ben Simmons made that team.  Is it odd that you're both on the Philadelphia 76ers right now?
JONAH BOLDEN: Well, I think Ben was in high school and I was supposed to be in under-17, so I was the youngest on the team.  But no, it's very funny.  They say "Trust the process," for me the whole journey has been a process from day one.  Leaving Australia to play high school over here, going to two different high schools, then two years at UCLA, then going professional.  So for me it's just been a whole process and I'm grateful for it, but I definitely believe in trusting the process.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT