MOUNTAIN WEST WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 6, 2017
Jaime White
Candice White
Bego Faz Davalos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Fresno State - 62  Nevada - 57   
COACH JAIME WHITE: Yeah, I thought we started the game off right.  Came out and I thought we scored inside well.  It was nice to get some inside scoring.  And then ended the second quarter with a little bit of a run going in.  I thought we ran our transition well.  And nice to have 46 rebounds.  Turned the ball over a little bit but I thought we really did a good job and just had a determination to hang on to the ball.   
 Q.  Bego, for you, so last year you guys were up by 15 midway through the third, Colorado State comes back, this year, first game, you're up by 9 and they cut the lead I think to five -- no, maybe two.  
COACH JAIME WHITE: Well, three at the end.   
 Q.  Earlier on.  For you, Bego, heading into the fourth quarter is where I'm headed.  8 points, four rebounds, three blocks, did any of that reminisce and trigger in your mind?  It looked like you came out possessed and it took over the last quarter.  
BEGO FAZ DAVALOS: We really wanted to win.  Our focus was different.  Maybe we were determined to win, no matter what.  I'm really proud of my teammates.   
 Q.  Candice, the same question, in terms of last year you guys were seeded second.  How has that stung and stuck in your mind?  
CANDICE WHITE: It stung a lot, getting all the way to the championship and not being able to take it home.  But being on the bench last year, we learned you have to finish games here in the tournament, and I think as a team we did.   
 Q.  What did you tell them between the third and fourth quarter to basically keep them poised, keep their calm and collected, come out and play their game?  
JAIME WHITE: Well, again, we started doing so well at the beginning of the game, getting the ball inside, that we needed to get that ball inside and out.  We also felt like we could attack a little bit and maybe draw some fouls.  I thought we did a good job attacking.  But then we got a little bit careless.   
At the end of the day we've got to contest shots and you've got to rebound defensively.  A combination of getting the ball in and then defending, keeping shooters in front of us.  We knew Schmid could shoot and we knew 4 could shoot, and keeping them off the boards.  And I thought it got scary and the kids kept their composure.  And we got stops when we needed and Candice hit those big free throws at the end.  That was nice to see our kids develop in that kind of a situation.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT