WNBA ALL-STAR GAME
July 15, 2007
Cheryl Ford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Cheryl Ford will make opening remarks. 
 CHERYL FORD:  Hi.  How y'all doing?  Okay, y'all can go.  Ask me whatever y'all want to. 

 Q.  Can you just talk about what it meant to win the MVP award. 
 CHERYL FORD:  It was exciting.  It was, you know, a nice award for me, a nice achievement.  I didn't come in here expecting to win.  I just came to play and show the fans a good show. 
 But I won, and most importantly our team won, the East won. 

 Q.  Did you just get caught up in everybody jacking up threes?  Because, you know, it was your first one that you've ever made in the W. 
 CHERYL FORD:  Oh, I guess.  So I guess the West has rubbed off on me a little bit.  They were shooting threes, so why not join them? 

 Q.  What did you folks talk about at halftime?  I mean, the first half was pretty dominated by the West, and then you tied it close to the buzzer.  What did you guys discuss as far as the second half? 
 CHERYL FORD:  We knew we wanted to come to win the game.  In the beginning we just came to have fun.  But Bill was like, okay, we've had our fun and it's time to play seriously.  And we knew we were missing a lot of rebounds, so that's what we had to tighten up on. 

 Q.  How was it going against your big rival in Katie, and being her teammate and wanting her to do so well? 
 CHERYL FORD:  I don't think that us and Connecticut as a rivalry.  But today we just had to come together as one.  I mean, we're on the same team, you know, trying to win for the East.  And that's what we did.  We had fun and we won. 

 Q.  I remember yesterday talking to you in the shootaround yesterday, and, you know, I was talking about how stiff your leg was and we were talking about that, and we were talking about, you know, the rest of the season is here.  And, you know, you're sitting here and you ended up MVP.  At what point in time did you, you know, realize it was on for you? 
 CHERYL FORD:  I think after a made a three pointer.  (Laughing) I think then.  I was like whoa, I surprised myself.  And I know my mom was out of her seat.  But I think at that point I did. 

 Q.  Just curious, how different was Bill in this game as compared to a regular season game? 
 CHERYL FORD:  He was still the same.  He was the fiery coach he is, and he wanted to win.  So he's a competitor. 
 The pregame speech was the same, and, you know, he just put everything on the board the way he usually does, and that's what we did.  He was still the same coach.  Loves to win, so. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Cheryl, thank you very much. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT