STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 14, 2015
Kevin Anderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Oregon - 38, Stanford - 36
Q. Obviously tough on the fumble return.  Did you see him coming?  Did it kind of surprise you?
KEVIN ANDERSON: I don't know.  It was all like a flash.  And Brennan had an awesome sack and the ball came right to me.  I knew somebody was going to catch me, I'm not the fastest guy in the world.  But I probably should have just kept running and so.
Q. What's the -- you guys are in an unusual position where it's a devastating loss, the Rose Bowl is still on the table.  What was the mood like in the locker room to reflect that?
KEVIN ANDERSON: Any time you lose, it stings, it's tough.  But if you told me at the beginning of the season, you would have a chance to beat Cal to win the PAC-12 north, play in the PAC-12 championship and potentially go to the Rose Bowl, I would say that's awesome.  So we need a little bit of perspective here, but it definitely stings right now.
Q. Coach talked about giving up the big plays.  What was it?
KEVIN ANDERSON: The first half we gave up at least three long touchdowns and those are just a product of us not doing our job.  We got to stay in the gap, we got to cover for an extra second longer.  You just got to do the little things and those little things add up to, if you mess them up, they add up to big plays.
Q. Kevin, do you think your defense, in any way, got exposed in this game?
KEVIN ANDERSON: I don't know.  That's tough to say.  We have to do our job and if we did, that we're a great defense.  But if we don't do our job, we're not a great defense.
Q. How much do you think experience played a role for Oregon today?
KEVIN ANDERSON: Every team in the PAC-12, it seems like it was fast, has that tempo.  Got a lot of good athletes also.  So I don't think it was too big of a shock, but they executed well and they got great athletes and it did go fast and so it made it difficult on us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT