EMAAR-MGF INDIAN MASTERS
February 10, 2008
Damien McGrane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DAMIEN McGRANE:  When I reflect on my week, I played an awful lot of good golf this week, and I'm happy with how I played.  I could have won, could have done all sorts of things, but second place I'm happy with.   
 And fairly played to the winner, he must have played great golf, and being an Indian in front of his home crowd, he'll learn a lot, so I'm not going to take that from him.  I played my best and I was reasonably solid out there today and I'm happy must have for my performance.   
  
  Q.  Your best ever finish, isn't it, second place?   
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  I'm happy with second place and the start of the season is a great time to have a second place, so I'm very happy and content.   
  
  Q.  How do you feel your round went, because a not lot of birdies, but some of those bogeys came at times you were trying to push on.   
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  Yeah, I bounced back, whenever I did make bogeys, I made birdies almost straight afterwards.  That seems to be a trademark of my golf.  But you know, it's a game of birdies, bogeys and pars, so you just have to hope you make enough birdies and few bogeys.   
 But it's a difficult week.  This was a real test of golf, and it should have suited my game, but I've always proved that theory wrong in the past and eventually the course that suits my game -- I'll make a few pounds here, so that's all good, and I'm happy now.   
  
  Q.  And when you do reflect, it's four very good rounds all put together, and it is, as you acknowledge, it's one round played out of his skin on the fine all day.   
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  Absolutely, and I played good enough to win but obviously he played great golf today and fair play to him and I'm delighted to see an Indian winner.  I'd have liked it to be me but being in end I can't and for the future of Indian golf and European Tour in India, it's great to see a local one.   
  
  Q.  You said yesterday you were looking forward to a little time off?   
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  Yeah, I'm okay, I'm positive about my golf, but I haven't been home in a while and I miss home at the moment and I'm glad to get home.   
  
  Q.  So when do we see you next?   
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  I'll stay at home for two weeks and then out for the Johnnie Walker.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT