EMAAR-MGF INDIAN MASTERS
February 9, 2008
Damien McGrane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DAMIEN McGRANE:  I struggled in the wind conditions.  I found it to be quite difficult today and we had to change our game plan a lot out there today because the wind, it was so strong. 
 You know, we all like to stick to our routine and our game plan off each tee box but that didn't happen for us today, and the putting was more difficult.  I found the greens were a little bit faster and drier, so all in all it was a tough day on the course, and still right in there and whoever shoots a good number tomorrow wins this tournament. 

 Q.  Your playing partner, Graeme McDowell, said they were crusty and that much harder to read things than on previous days. 
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  Definitely it seemed to be a lot drier.  The pins were picked away a little bit more, closer to the bunkers, where the land is going to be a lot drier. 
 But it is more difficult.  It's about hitting fairways and hitting plenty of greens in regulation. 

 Q.  There's a certain irony that we get the warmest and brightest day of the week, yet whenever the ball goes above the tree line, it's just affected by the wind. 
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  Absolutely.  And if you hit really good shots out there, the ball will cut through the wind and not be a factor whatsoever.  So it's a tough combination. 
 But the pin positions were good today and you had to hit a lot of really good shots.  In the crosswinds you would hit some good shots and didn't quite work out, but tomorrow is another day, and whoever goes out and shoots a good number tomorrow wins it. 

 Q.  The local knowledge, is that all negated when the conditions are like this? 
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  You know, you have to play each hole as you find it, and because we've only played here three or four times here so far, the European players, we're hitting into the dark sometimes and hoping for the best.  The locals maybe have a slight advantage. 
 But windy conditions, it's every man for himself to be honest. 

 Q.  How good is that round of 69 by Ernie Els, because when we spoke to him, he thought it was three shots fewer than he needed to be involved, but he's only four back. 
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  Absolutely, 69, getting an early score in, 69 is a good number today.  He'll fancy his chances tomorrow if he can get out of the block fast. 

 Q.  What's a good number come Sunday? 
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  I was originally thinking 15, 16 and now I'm thinking 12.  Somebody is going to shoot a good score tomorrow. 
 There's a lot of good players at the top now and a lot of good wind players; I consider myself a good player in the wind and also Graeme McDowell, so all to play for tomorrow. 

 Q.  Is there anything that you gained from playing with a chance in the final round like in Dubai that helps you in final day here? 
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  To be honest I would say no.  At this stage I probably need a break from the game to get some air between myself and the golf course.  This is my fourth week in a row and I've made all the cuts so I've been playing a lot of golf.  A break is what I need to be honest, not more action and excitement. 

 Q.  And it would be very nice to go into the break having claimed your first European Tour title. 
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  Absolutely.  There's why I'm here, I'm here to win golf tournaments and so is everybody else, and that's my objective this week. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT