EMAAR-MGF INDIAN MASTERS
February 7, 2008
Damien McGrane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SCOTT CROCKETT:  Thanks for joining us.  Excellent afternoon's work, 67, you must be very pleased with the opening.   
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  Absolutely.  It's a fairly demanding course and after three weeks in the desert.  It's a complete contrast really on the greens, as well, and you have to play it well out there and you have to hit a lot of straight shots.  Luckily for me today, I hit the straight shot and plenty of fairways and holed a few putts.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT:  Was that the key?  You dropped a couple of shots, but apart from that, was that the key?   
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  Absolutely.  You know, it is difficult to get up-and-down consistently out there, the ball reacts differently on every chip shot and every putt, so you know, it's about making birdies whenever you get the opportunity and keeping bogeys off the card as much as possible.   
  
  Q.  Are you suffering a little bit of a hangover from last week, playing with Tiger etc?   
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  No, I think last week, what happened last week is truly over for me now and I'm trying to move on and obviously this is a new week and new tournament, although you'll ever be fresh if you're dreaming about last week or the week before, you would be burned out in this game.  So every week is a new start and new opportunity.   
 So what happened last week is history in my book.   
  
  Q.  Please tell us Tiger said something to you to encourage you?   
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  Do you want me to lie?! No, I enjoyed playing with him.  He's fantastic to play with.  He encouraged me all the way ask appreciated any good shots did I hit, so he's a super guy to play with.  If any of you get a chance, I'd recommend it.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT:  I doubt they would handle it as well as you did, to be honest.   
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  But outside the ropes -- I'm glad to be away from all that anarchy.   
  
  Q.  Did you have an extra boost in confidence?   
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  No, you know, it's nice to know that I played with the best player in the world, and survived the whole experience, and you know, once you've played with the best, anything else is second best or third best or whatever the case may be.  But you know, this week Tiger's moved on and so have I.   
  
  Q.  Do you think your game is in as good shape now as it has been?   
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  No, I didn't look at it that way myself.   
  
  Q.  Strategy for the rest of the tournament?   
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  Yeah, I have to try and just play the same -- stick to my routine and play the same holes the same way every day and hopefully do the same again and the same again and the same again, but you know, it's a difficult course out there and it's quite bouncy, as well.   
 So if you have to change your strategy, you have to be able to deal with that and be prepared to play a long second shot into the par fours, and the par fours are about hitting the fairways, so if you have to lay quite a long way back, maybe 200 yards into the green, that's where you'll have to be.   
  
  Q.  Do you enjoy old fashioned courses like this?   
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  Yeah, it was nice to play something like this rather than the newer, tight courses that we seem to play a lot in Europe, and this is traditional and it's nice, yeah, certainly.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT:  Thank you, well done and good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT