IRISH OPEN
May 19, 2007
Damien McGrane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  70, best score of the day so far; what was the secret to the success? 
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  Yeah, I had a good day on the greens out there and my short putts, holed a lot of putts for pars, which is what needs to be done out here.  The course is demanding, and I had a lot of putts, maybe four, six feet and I made most of them, if not them all.  So certainly went a long way in the score. 

 Q.  2-under 13, you make a double and straight back; how important was that? 
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  Yeah, had a couple of bad breaks and if there ever was a good double, I suppose it was possibly.  I didn't mind taking double there.  I was in trouble all the way.  You know, I stuck with my confidence, I knew I was playing okay and I guess I birdied the next two, so that was nice. 

 Q.  Give us a sense of the support you're receiving out there. 
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  It's great.  It's lovely to play at home and it's nice to have so many of your friends and family around, so we all can go out and enjoy it.  And it's a great venue here, we've certainly taken the most of the week. 

 Q.  It looks like you're not going to be too far away coming into the day; how are you going to approach the final round? 
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  Yeah, you know, obviously it will be a big day for any Irish guy out there anywhere close to the lead, and we would all love an opportunity to win.  So I've created myself an opportunity now and look toward to tomorrow. 

 Q.  Who would it mean to come out and win this tournament your first on Tour? 
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  It would be absolutely amazing, I would take any at the moment but the Irish Open is spectacular. 

 Q.  What was the key for you today? 
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  Holed a number of crunch putts for pars which you want to happen out there really, so that made my day.  I hit a good shot into the last, made my day.  I hit a good shot into the last and finished 40 feet from the hole and holed another 6-footer. 

 Q.  The double -- 
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  It was a good double, unfortunately. 

 Q.  What happened on the drive? 
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  I hit a decent tee shot left, downhill and buried.  Hacked it out and missed the green with my next shot, chipped on and 2-putt.  It isn't disastrous to be honest -- but that's going to happen out there.  With the wind howling, the crosswind is very severe, it's one of those things.  And I hit a couple of good putts on the next two greens and all of the sudden everything is okay again. 
 You know you play so much golf and you go out and give it 100% and you try to sink putts every day of the week, and sometimes they go in.  I've been waiting to show a bit of form and my putting was good today and really that was the key.  Tee-to-green I was the very same as I usually am. 

 Q.  Good day for the crowd tomorrow? 
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  The spectators are the lifeblood of the Irish Open.  If the weather is kind tomorrow there will be an opportunity for birdie and everybody would have an absolutely fantastic Irish Open.  So much depends on the weather. 

 Q.  Is the way the course is set up -- making it such a tough tournament? 
 DAMIEN McGRANE:  In my opinion, the courses are set up similar to this every week.  It just that the weather here is so ferocious and crosswinds are so strong, I think possibly that's what's making the big, big difference.  Like we have rough every week, it's not just this week.  It's just that this week, we're dealing with crosswinds and balls flying all over the place. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT