IRISH OPEN PRESENTED BY DISCOVER IRELAND
July 29, 2011
Damien McGrane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. This is your home event. What difference does that mean to you?   
 DAMIEN McGRANE: It's just nice to know that when you play at home, you generally know the course a little bit better than the other players and generally that's what shines through.   
 We tend to play the golf courses, but 18-hole practise round, maybe 36 with the Pro-Am; so it's quite difficult to have local knowledge and around here I have a little bit of local knowledge obviously because I've been playing here for a number of years now.  
  
  Q. Serious business or can you enjoy the weekend.   
 DAMIEN McGRANE: I've enjoyed it so far and I like having my family here with me. It's a great novelty to have them here, so we have plenty of fun and plenty of entertainment, and Killarney is a great town, also.  
  
  Q. What was the great fortune?  
 DAMIEN McGRANE: There was holy water falling on my head. (Laughing) I holed a long putt on one hole. Maybe No. 8, out of the blue, I must admit and chipped in on No. 9, and then I think I birdied the par 3, No. 10. So that was a good run there. All of a sudden I went from just treading water to going forward fast, which was nice. The putt on 11 it was 40 feet.   
  
  Q. Is it possible, three-time Major Champion, you look at someone like Pádraig, the way things are going, that you feel almost sorry for him?  
 DAMIEN McGRANE: No, no. Nobody should feel sorry for Pádraig. He's hit going shots and doing what he wants to do. It's just not coming off. He's hitting so many good shots and he hit so many good shots around the greens, as well. Just some of them are not coming off. Yesterday and today just some of them did not come off. He still produced some great shots. Just some of them are not coming off. He's just playing a waiting game, just sit and wait.  
  
  Q. What did you do last night? What made Killarney so interesting last night?  
 DAMIEN McGRANE: It's nice to get out and see all of the street entertainers and actually see The European Tour even celebrate it, because it's a celebration of golf down here, and that's the way it should be.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT