SAAB WALES OPEN
June 2, 2011
Damien McGrane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DAMIEN McGRANE: I played steady from start to finish. You know, and when I got it a little bit wrong out there, I managed to get up-and-down, which just held my score together, which is all you have to do out there really.  
 The conditions are good and the greens are soft, so you know, it is possible to give yourself a lot of birdie chances. Needless to say, you have to get the ball in the hole, also.  
  
  Q. Any highlights?   
 DAMIEN McGRANE: Drivable par 4 on the back nine, hit a good driver there to about 12 feet and two putts. That was certainly the tee shot was my shot of the day. But unfortunately the putt didn't fall into the hole for an eagle.  
 But you know, it's about just building on scores and building on the birdies, and that's what I managed to do today.  
  
  Q. You've seen this in all kind of weather no doubt. What do you think of the place?  
 DAMIEN McGRANE: Well, as you say, like it's different every time we come back here. Like last year I think the weather was quite pleasant and today obviously was beautiful.   
 So it's a pleasure to be out there, and you can enjoy the course and enjoy a good golf course it is, too.   
  
  Q. Going back a few months, did you watch The Ryder Cup?   
 DAMIEN McGRANE: I certainly watched the finish when Graeme was doing his thing on the last few holes. It's nice to be back, and I think all of the spectators are glad to be back here as well, and they all know where to go and they all know the vantage point, so it's good for everybody.  
  
  Q. When you go back with the knowledge of what you've actually seen from the Ryder Cup, you can appreciate that it's entirely different?  
 DAMIEN McGRANE: Yeah, but you know, those guys are riding a high on The Ryder Cup, and they are pumped up and they are playing as a team and it brings the best out in them.   
 It's fantastic, and we are lucky, European Tour is so lucky that the Ryder Cup has been so good to Europe for the last 20 years or so.  
  
  Q. Is there any different feeling for you coming to a Ryder Cup venue knowing that will had been such wonderful highs shot on this kind of course?   
 DAMIEN McGRANE: No, I don't think so. But I'm sure the players who played The Ryder Cup here get a real buzz about coming back, but for me, it's unfortunately not having experienced that just yet.   
  
  Q. Just yet?  
 DAMIEN McGRANE: Not yet.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT