BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 28, 2011
Damien McGrane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. The positive things?
 DAMIEN McGRANE: I made plenty of birdied and I putted nicely. I holed everything inside 15 feet, so I made two bogeys which were out of nowhere really but that's golf I suppose. I made plenty of birdies and I was very satisfied with that and I putted well today and I had good pace on my putts which is important to me. 
 If I get good pace, I can hole putts. And if my pace is incorrect, needless to say you don't get it. Obviously want to build on that and keep going.

 Q. A testing track?
 DAMIEN McGRANE: Yeah, but still think there's a lot of birdie chances out there and scoring will be quite low this week. The fairways are generous, and just like last week, you make birdies on day one and keep going till the end of the tournament. That's what I started off doing, so hopefully I'll do it at end of the tournament. 

 Q. Does it take it out of you, the changes in undulation?
 DAMIEN McGRANE: Absolutely, you just have to putt the head down and pump those legs hopefully the best and you can and hopefully you see on the top.

 Q. A change in temperature from what we've seen the last few weeks on The European Tour. 
 DAMIEN McGRANE: Yeah, but still it's not that bad. It's chilly, and breezy today, but right now it's okay. We are walking fast and trying to keep up with the pace of play so, we are actually pretty warm out there. Needless to say, standing around, it is cold.

 Q. Give us a highlight. 
 DAMIEN McGRANE: You know, I hit a few good iron shots there at the end, and I hit good putts, and obviously I like to finish strong and I finished strong there today. 
 You know, a good birdie on No. 8 coming in, and then you know, I had a good chance on No. 9, as well and just missed it. It's a lot of positives out there.

 Q. And an indication of the tricky nature of the changes of elevation? 
 DAMIEN McGRANE: Just placing on the fairways, which makes it very helpful, because you can launch the ball high even uphill and that's important. You don't want the ball going in flat. Especially going uphill, you don't want flat, because the ball releases 20 feet, because the greens are firm are quite firm and slopey. I kept it the right side of the flag all day today obviously and gave myself opportunities with the putter and made more than my fair share, so I'm happy. 

 Q. As a fellow countryman, can I ask for an appraisal of Shane Lowery, who played alongside you. 
 DAMIEN McGRANE: Yeah, myself and Shane were birdieing every hole together all the way and then on No. 5, he had a 7 and I made 3. So all of a sudden we are matching each other shot for shot, all the way around, birdieing the same holes all the way around and he had a blow-up there and I birdied it. That was the dramatic difference in our two scores at the end of the day. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT