CHICAGO FIRE MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 17, 2020
Alvaro Medran
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Coach mentioned with the stoppage due to the coronavirus, it stopped your rhythm a little bit.  When do you think you'll return to your best moment?
ÁLVARO MEDRÁN:   I think the stoppage and quarantine for the coronavirus really was bad for everyone, and you know, some people it stopped the rhythm a little bit -- for some people, they can regain their rhythm quickly and other people, it takes a little longer.  For me, you know, I'm going out there, I'm working hard and it's taking me a little longer but I'm out there and working.
So it's true that shortly before the stoppage, there were a couple of things that were bothering me, but we are working on the process, we are working through everything, and the other day I was able to play 75 minutes, which was good for me with working back slowly, and pretty soon you're going to see the best Álvaro.
Q. What do you expect from San Jose, and how do you as a midfielder deal with their man-marking scheme that they do?
ÁLVARO MEDRÁN:   We expect a difficult game.  We saw they are an intense team that runs all the way through the game up until the last minute.  We saw that against Vancouver; that they kept pushing right up till the very end.  It's going to be difficult.  We are expecting to face a very difficult team but we think that playing at 8:00 is going to benefit us.  It's going to change the rhythm of the game.  It's going to be a good game for us.
Hopefully it will be good for the fans, and our intent is always doing out there and get the three points and play a very good game.
Q. How much did it mean to the team to get a victory in the first tournament game, especially against the defending league champions?
ÁLVARO MEDRÁN:   It's very positive for us because we already faced them in the first game and you already know what happened.  We lost in the last minute.
So we had that kind of nagging at us, but luck took us to play against them again, and this time we were able to get the win.
For us, it's very good.  We are very happy that we still are trying to -- we look favorably ongoing on to the next round.  So it doesn't matter, you know, who we play, but it does feel good to play against the defending champions and get the points against them.  So we are in high spirits and we are looking forward to the remaining games.
Q. With everything that's happening right now, what is more difficult to deal with, the tactical or the mental aspect?  And with the style of play that Chicago has right now, what's the biggest thing that you have to work on and what's the most difficult for you to work on?
ÁLVARO MEDRÁN:   It's a little bit complicated.  Yeah, sure, we had three or four months without competing, and then we get here and already a lot of things that are still unknown.
We still don't know, you know, with two teams being eliminated, suddenly you're wondering, are we going to play; are we not going to play.  So it is a little bit mental, and you just have it face it and take it as it comes.
Yeah, it's also a little bit physical.  In Orlando, it very hot and humid, but the coaching staff has done a great job and all the trainers of taking care of us.  So they do a really good job of making sure that all we have to worry about is going on to the field and playing and taking everything in that way.
And sure, as far as the second question, the system is still changing a little bit, and we are still adapting to what the coach wants us to do; taking into account that it's a tournament and we don't want to lose games.  So you kind of have to do it more quickly and focus a little bit faster and a little bit quicker.
But things are going well.  If you noticed against New England, we also had, that, we ended with that formation, and for me it really doesn't matter what the formation is.  I just have to do what the coach tells me to do and go out there and do my best, and we are still focusing on our purpose, which is to make it to the next round.
Q. What are your thoughts on Robert in training and in games, and how you two have kind of linked up?
ÁLVARO MEDRÁN:   He's a great guy.  He's really great.  We generally think, or the stereotype is that people from Eastern Europe are a little bit cold, but really he's great.  He's great with all of the guys which is fantastic, which is important since the group can get together.
I always said we have a great team both personally and on the field.  All the players have been wonderful.  And so it really makes the team better on the field when everyone gets along off the field.
And as far as linking up with him, we are always trying to make sure he has the maximum possibilities of scoring as possible.  He's the one that's going to score.
So we do our job on the field to try to get him the ball, and we are all trying as a group as a collective team to get the best results possible and getting him the ball is going to help that.  So we are all just working out there for each other and try to get him the ball as much as possible.
Q. Would you like to score against San Jose, and how would you like to do it in would you rather give the assist or score on a free kick?
ÁLVARO MEDRÁN:   Obviously I would like to score a goal, but our objective continues to be the three points.  It would be the same for me if I scored or if I sat on the bench and watched someone else score.  I would be just as happy.
I mean, obviously would I love to score my first goal with the Chicago Fire on Sunday, but really, we are all working together on our goal of passing on to the next round, and I would be just as happy watching my tome mate score and seeing us get through.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT