NBA ALL-STAR 2020
February 15, 2020
Khris Middleton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. On possibly joining the 50/40/90 club:
KHRIS MIDDLETON: Yeah, that's definitely something I've always worked for that I dreamed I could do. I would say 50, 40, 90 is, like you said, top class. I'm halfway there. Still have a long way to go to the end of the season. If I get it, I get it. If I don't, I'll still be proud of the season I had.
Q. Nowadays you are an All-Star. The G League is important for you?
KHRIS MIDDLETON: You said G League? I mean, it's just important for players who are not playing to get some type of game rhythm instead of doing workouts and one-on-one conditioning drills. It allows some of their time to be used a little bit better, I think, by getting game experience and getting in shape and figuring out what type of player you can be.
Q. How do you feel today?
KHRIS MIDDLETON: I feel great.
Q. Khris, the chemistry you and Giannis have, was there a duo like that growing up, maybe in high school, that you think would pattern the next generation?
KHRIS MIDDLETON: I think, with the type of player Giannis is, we've never seen it before. So to say it reminds me of something back in the day, I can't explain it because he's such a unique player that we haven't seen before.
Q. Is there a duo you really admire?
KHRIS MIDDLETON: Of course, Kobe and Shaq, Jordan and Pippen, Penny and Shaq. I mean, the list goes on for sure.
Q. What do you think of one-on-one competition for All-Star Weekend?
KHRIS MIDDLETON: One-on-one, that would be pretty cool to see honestly. I mean, the hard part is getting guys to sign up. I mean, I don't think guys want to play one-on-one in front of a crowd. They'd rather do that in a closed, empty gym. It definitely would be cool.
Q. Who's the best player at one-on-one?
KHRIS MIDDLETON: I'm going to go with myself. I'm sure everyone else is going to go with themselves as well.
Q. Who would it be besides you?
KHRIS MIDDLETON: My guy Giannis. That would be another.
Q. Besides Giannis, anybody else?
KHRIS MIDDLETON: That would be my number one pick, Giannis.
Q. Some mid-range jumpers?
KHRIS MIDDLETON: That's just been always my strong suit, that mid-range shot. I know the game has changed a lot, so I try to adapt my game the last couple years, but growing up, that's how I was, I was a mid-range. I would step out and shoot threes every now and then when I was younger. The game is growing, I had to grow with it, but I also have to keep my mid-range with me.
Q. Who did you pattern your game after?
KHRIS MIDDLETON: So many players, so many wing players. Kobe was my favorite, Michael Jordan was my favorite. Tracy McGrady, all those type of wings, Paul Pierce. Those guys who knew how to get to their spot and raise up over somebody.
Q. What did you take away from your first year at All-Star last year?
KHRIS MIDDLETON: The first year, it's a whirlwind. You sign yourself up for everything and don't know what you're getting yourself into. This year, I tried to dial it back a little bit so I could enjoy it a little bit more and not get exhausted. All in all, it's a great weekend to be a part of. So got to try to enjoy it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT