NBA ALL-STAR 2019
February 16, 2019
Khris Middleton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What does this mean to you to be here in Charlotte?  
KHRIS MIDDLETON: Yeah, it's great.  To be home, the closest place I can be to home, here in Charlotte, it's great.  I get to have a lot of family and friends come down and hang out.  For this to be my first All Star experience is great, and then to be close to home makes it even more special.   
 Q.  On basketball in his native South Carolina:  
KHRIS MIDDLETON: The game has grown in South Carolina a lot.  People don't realize that.  We have a lot of great talent there.  Guys in the past and guys coming up now.  Hopefully, I keep the trend going.  Jermaine O'Neal started it off, and hopefully to keep going after me.   
 Q.  Who do you think is the league MVP now?  
KHRIS MIDDLETON: Right now, I'm going to go with my guy Giannis.  He's having a great year.  He's leading us to first place right now.  He's doing everything for us.  When you look at his numbers, you look at our team, you look at how we're winning and everything, I think he's the clear candidate right now.   
 Q.  Do you think the way that Harden has played the last few years and Giannis, is the best player a closer conversation now?  
KHRIS MIDDLETON: That's tough.  I think LeBron is the best player in the world, as far as overall in his career and what he's doing for this league on and off the court.  But I think Giannis is headed in that direction.  Giannis is still 23, 24.  LeBron is in his 30s now.  I think Giannis can be a LeBron-type player, like an all-world, Hall of Famer, MVP, legend, one of the best ever.  He's doing the right things to put himself in that situation.  I think he will get there.   
 Q.  What's his ceiling?  
KHRIS MIDDLETON: I really don't think you can put a ceiling on Giannis at all.  To see him grow over the last couple of years and see what he's doing now, it's night and day from six years ago to now.  I really don't think there's a limit for what he can do, no.   
 Q.  Got your family in town?  
KHRIS MIDDLETON: Yes.   
 Q.  Have to get them all tickets?  
KHRIS MIDDLETON: Yeah, but it's a good thing.  It's a good thing.   
 Q.  How do you like playing for coach Mike Budenholzer?  
KHRIS MIDDLETON: Bud is great.  His style is a little different than what we all were used to, but it's fun.  He keeps the energy alive.  He keeps everybody fresh and focused and relaxed, which is what we need.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT