PENN STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 8, 2013
Ty Howle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   Just talk a little bit about Mac McWhorter, how he's been the last few weeks.   He was on a conference call last week and he had everyone laughing talking about how he broke up a fight two weeks ago.   Can you tell me a little bit about him and some of his experiences at practice?  
TY HOWLE:   Yeah, Coach Mac is a great guy.   He's a great offensive line coach first of all, and he wouldn't be at Penn State without that.   But he loves his players.   He cares for them.   But he's a funny guy, but he also‑‑ he'll get after you when you need it.   It's about tough love, and he's a great coach, and he has a special relationship with his players and other players on the team.   And I think that's something great that he does to connect with our team and players.   And I can't say enough about Coach Mac.   He's a great coach and a great human being.  
   
 Q.   What's it like when a guy his age (inaudible)?   
TY HOWLE:   I mean, he's fired up out there, like all of our coaches.   They're fired up, so he gets right in there.   He's a former all‑SEC guard, so he handles himself.   
   
 Q.   I don't know if you would agree with this, but maybe long snapping can be kind of a thankless job.   What happened on those long snaps against Indiana?   Was it a matter of the field being slick, or how do you maybe tweak that so it doesn't happen again?  
TY HOWLE:   You know, to be honest, I just had a bad snap.   I'm working hard this week, and it's not going to happen again.   
   
 Q.   How would you kind of assess your play overall this year, the offensive line?   You've seemed to struggle at times getting going.   
TY HOWLE:   I think our offensive line is playing well.   We're coming together.   Our main thing is we're focusing on getting better each day.   We're working to win the day.   It's something Coach Mac is preaching about, being physical every day when you go out there, getting the 1 percent better each day to improve our offensive line as a whole.   And I think our guys are doing that, and they want to do that.   They want to play well.   
I think that's something we've been doing this year.   
   
 Q.   Last week Coach Mac was saying about like gelling as an offensive line and how it's kind of a progression.   I was wondering, how can you tell when you guys are like gelling and together?   
TY HOWLE:   You know, you can tell every day in practice.   Like I've said before, it's about getting better every day.   It's something that just comes with practice, and it's something we've been doing since back in the spring, summer, and just carries on.   It's an ever‑changing thing, and now at this point in the season, it's working on stuff specific to the team we're playing.   Our guys, we're working hard and working to keep getting better.  
   
 Q.   Is there a way that you can physically (inaudible)?   
TY HOWLE:   Yeah, I mean, when we watch it on film, a successful play, that kind of stuff, the right communication going through the play.   
   
 Q.   It seems as if you guys struggled to run the ball against Indiana.   I'm wondering what you saw on tape and maybe how you used that to improve, if you feel you need to improve going forward.   
TY HOWLE:   We always need to improve.   No team is ever going to have a perfect position or perfect player, perfect thing.   So I mean, we're always working to improve, and we watched the film on Saturday, and we're working to correct all the little things, and we're going to go on and we're focused on playing Michigan this week and what they're going to do against us and what we're going to do against them on Saturday.   
   
 Q.   Speaking of Michigan, talk about Michigan and the challenges they bring.   
TY HOWLE:   Michigan's defense is tough.   They have a really good front seven.   Their secondary has been playing well.   I don't think they've allowed a rushing touchdown this year.   Those guys are the old pro back Michigan defense who are tough hard‑nosed players and like to get after it.   That's what we've seen on film, and those guys are playing well.   
   
 Q.   I think Mac called you Swamp Man.   Is that a nickname that derives from "Duck Dynasty"?  
TY HOWLE:   No, it's actually from "Swamp People," the other TV show.  
   
 Q.   Can you share some other nicknames from the team?  
TY HOWLE:   You'd have to ask him.   I don't know if he wants them all out there, but he has a lot of nicknames for a lot of people.   
   
 Q.   Coach O'Brien was pretty adamant about the fact that this is a huge game.   This is maybe not the average game, every‑week game.   Can you talk a little bit about what a win on Saturday would mean, especially given the atmosphere that's expected for homecoming?   
TY HOWLE:   I mean, it would mean a lot.   We're going out there in front of 108,000 on ESPN.   I think it's supposed to be a white‑out, and it's going to be an electric atmosphere.   It's something that all us players are really excited to do, and then it's also a big‑time Big 10 game.   It's a Big 10 conference game.   We're focused and working hard to get that done.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT