CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK CLASSIC
November 11, 2010
Brenden Pappas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Brenden, 6-under 66. Maybe just sort of talk about the round overall. You had a little bit of bad and a little bit of good with the hole-in-one?
 BRENDEN PAPPAS: Yeah. I played nicely all day. I was 3-under through seven holes. I could have been 4 or 5-under. And then I hit a beautiful 4-iron on 8, and when it was coming down, I was like, that's gotta be in the hole. And I said, "get in the hole." 
 And you know, the pin is slightly hidden by the bunker face, and the guy at the green just threw his arms up, so I knew it was in the hole. That was exciting.

 Q. And you've had how many now?
 BRENDEN PAPPAS: That's my fifth.

 Q. First since -- first in a while?
 BRENDEN PAPPAS: First since '08. Actually it was '09. I had one in Australia.

 Q. Okay. 
 BRENDEN PAPPAS: When we played down there with the Nationwide Tour. I've had three in the last six years, so they seem to be ticking out of me now.
 From there I played okay. I had a couple of sketchy holes in the middle of the back nine, but I managed to par them. And then I birdied 17. And I hit a beautiful drive down 18, and I picked up a mud ball, and it didn't look like it was too bad. So I went ahead and aimed it at the hole. 
 I didn't think it would get other side of the wind off the right, and boy, did it go out of control. It just shot right and stayed right of the wind, which was the bad thing.

 Q. What were you hitting there for club?
 BRENDEN PAPPAS: I had 182 to the hole. And I was just trying to -- you know, shoot a 5-iron down there very gently, and it just went way right, and it was in the water when I hit it.

 Q. Yeah, a lot of guys coming in were talking about mud on the ball. 
 BRENDEN PAPPAS: Yeah. It's something you have to get by. You know, I looked at the ball, and Todd and I discussed it, Todd Montoya, my caddy, and we both agreed that it wasn't a lot of mud, and it shouldn't shoot it more than 10 yards off line. So you know, it's a little disappointing, but I managed to roll in a good 8-footer for double bogey eventually. So I managed to keep the breathing under control.

 Q. But overall assessment, 66 is still not bad to start, and you can go get them tomorrow. Right?
 BRENDEN PAPPAS: If you'd given me 6-under, I probably would have taken it at the beginning of the day. I had a chance to shoot eight or 9. So I'm really happy.

 Q. Okay. Well, go get them tomorrow. Thanks. 
 BRENDEN PAPPAS: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT