CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 14, 2004
Brenden Pappas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHRIS REIMER:  Brenden, good round.  6-under.  You are in with us in the Media Center on Thursday and at Southern Farms, if I remember correctly as well.  140 on the Money List, are you going to smack me if I ask you if you are thinking about the Money List?  Are you getting sick of that question at all yet?
BRENDEN PAPPAS:  No, everybody is interested about that.  And I don't blame them.  It's obviously a hot topic on TOUR at the moment with three tournaments to go.  So you know, definitely, I have it in the back of my mind, especially when I'm off the course.  But once I'm on the course, you get involved in what you are doing there.  And you try not to think about anything else.  So focus is definitely something I'll have to keep to not worry about that.
CHRIS REIMER:  Take some questions.
Q.  I notice that you were one of four golfers in the top 140 that have played in 31 events.  Are you getting tired of golf balls or is it just something you do?
BRENDEN PAPPAS:  It's something I do.  It is my living.  I need to grind it out here at the end of the year so fatigue is just not an issue.  I played 32 events last year, I'm looking like playing 34 or 35 this year.  I'm not sure.  Ultimately I would like to turn it down to 28.  But the reality is I have to play, so that's not something I worry about.
Q.  What was the most exciting thing that happened out there today?
BRENDEN PAPPAS:  Fredrik Jacobson holed out for a 2 on 10.  That was pretty exciting.  In my own game, I made a good par on the 16th.  I hooked my tee shot into the trees and I hit a beautiful 5-iron punch hook out on to the green, which was more than what I was expecting out of the shot for sure.  So that was good.  To keep the momentum into the round tomorrow.
Q.  Is this your best start in a while?
BRENDEN PAPPAS:  Was I leading Southern Farm?  One off the lead?  Yeah.  I've had, I think three tournaments this year where I've been close to the lead.  And the following round has been disappointing.  So at least tomorrow I'll just have to come out here and try and keep focused on the same shot, the shot at hand, at least.  And I'm not worried too much about history.
Q.  What do you do to try to not worry about the top 125?
BRENDEN PAPPAS:  Once I'm off the course I think about it constantly.  Once I get out on the golf course, it's the shot at hand that matters.  It's always there in the back of your mind, but depending upon how sharp your focus is, depends on whether you think about it or not.  Today it never crossed my mind once.
Q.  Scoring conditions as good as you'll find?  A lot of guys talking about that?
BRENDEN PAPPAS:  Yeah, the rain helped to soften the greens so obviously the approach shots are a lot easier that way.  You can fire straight on at the hole.  I think I remember last year the greens being a lot harder.  Until the rain came as well.  But the greens definitely have the potential to get rock hard.  So depending upon what happens tomorrow, will determine what the course plays like for the weekend.
CHRIS REIMER:  Any other questions?  That's it.  Let's go over your club selection here on your birdies and bogeys and even eagle on 2 here.
BRENDEN PAPPAS:  All right.  No. 2 I hit driver 3-iron to about 10 foot.

Hit a nice sliding left-to-right putt in the hole there.

4, I had 5-iron in my hand and I felt like it was not quite enough club and I kind of got ahead of it and pushed it right.  Missed about a 12 footer for par.

8, I hit a beautiful 5-iron to about 12 foot left of the hole.  Maybe a little longer.  18 foot.  Read the putt perfectly.  Hit it right where I aimed it.

No. 9 I hit driver, what I call my futility club.

(Laughter.)  2-iron, 50 wood thing.  Hybrid-type thing.  Sonartec.  And I was about 40 feet and 2-putted.

10, I hit -- I didn't birdie 10.  I parred 10.  I made a good par there.  Yeah.

14, the par-5.  I birdied -- no.  I birdied 11.  I hit a driver through the fairway.  And hit a 9-iron to about 35 feet and buried it.  That was sweet.

That actually helped a lot to keep the mojo going.

And then I didn't birdie 13.  Which was a bit of a disappointment.  That's a pretty easy birdie there with that pin.

14, I hit an 8-iron out of the bunker to about two feet.

15, I hit a beautiful drive there.  Also my futility club, about it was pin high, about 15 yards to the right of the hole.  About four yards off the green and I chipped that one in.  That was it.  I hit a beautiful 3-iron on 17.  I think that hole's pretty under rated.  That's a pretty tough tee shot out there.
CHRIS REIMER:  Anything else?  Thank you very much for coming in.  Good luck.
BRENDEN PAPPAS:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT