SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE MEDIA DAYS
July 22, 2010
A.J. Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Ready to continue with A.J. Green. Give us a few thoughts on the upcoming season, then we'll take some questions.   
 A.J. GREEN: Oh, man, you know, it's great to be at Media Day. I'm just ready to get in the fight, ready to get back on the playing field.   
 This season, a lot of people are counting us out, but I believe that this team right here is real special with a lot of the older guys coming back, with our new quarterback. That's really going to open some eyes this year and going to help us win a lot of games, so...   
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Since you're one of the veterans on the team, what can you do from a leadership standpoint to help the young guys, in particular your new quarterback, sort of develop and learn how games are played in the SEC?  
 A.J. GREEN: You know, with me being a veteran and helping Aaron out, I believe I can instill that confidence level that he needs to throw the ball and just to know that he has that primary receiver out there. Whenever he's in trouble, he can just throw it. It don't have to be a great ball, it can be whatever, and I can make a play on it.   
  
  Q. Being a South Carolina native, do you place any added emphasis on the South Carolina game every year?  
 A.J. GREEN: Not really. But it's always good to win. Going back home, I know a lot of those guys, a lot of people that are Gamecock fans. Just having the upper hand on them, I'm 2-0 against y'all, I can have that bragging right when I go home.   
  
  Q. Have you ever been to Miami? How are you dealing with the distractions the last couple days?  
 A.J. GREEN: I really can't comment on that issue right now, so...   
  
  Q. Talk about the mentality of the team as a whole, especially on the offensive side, what your goals and expectations are?  
 A.J. GREEN: I'm going to tell you, we're hungry. A lot of people, like I said, are counting us out. I believe it's good for us with a young quarterback just to fly under the radar. Really don't put him in a lot of pressure that he has to do too much.   
 I believe that, like I said, we're going to open a lot of eyes coming into September, going towards the end of the season.   
  
  Q. I know you don't play them this year, but do you sort of have a healthy rivalry with Julio Jones and how well do you know him?  
 A.J. GREEN: No, you know, I don't know him that well. Just know him from the recruiting process in high school. We were always compared to each other. Coming out of high school, being the one and two receivers coming out. Now we're in college, coming into our third year, and we're still compared to be the number one and two receivers coming out whenever we declare for the draft.   
 It's crazy how we've both grown from high school to now, all the success we're having coming into a great conference like the SEC.   
  
  Q. You're projected as a top 10 draft pick. How do you get away from the talk of the NFL right now? What are some of the things you want to work on this season individually?  
 A.J. GREEN: I got a real tight circle that really keeps me grounded, my family, my friends back home. My mom particularly, you know, just to stay hungry, never get complacent, never settle where you're at, always strive for the best. That's my mentality.   
  
  Q. Can you expand a little bit on Aaron Murray's skills and why you have so much confidence in him going into the season?  
 A.J. GREEN: From day one, I saw it in Aaron. He was preparing like he was the starter. Whenever that time was approaching, he was going to have the best opportunity to compete, put us in the place to win a lot of games.   
 Over this summer, you know, Aaron is always working. He always texts me, Come out and let's throw, get that chemistry down, work on some routes that I have trouble running or he has throwing.   
 Aaron is that guy, like I said, he's well above his age limit. He's not no regular 18-year-old or just a regular guy that just gonna come in there and throw the ball or whatever. He's a leader. As young as he is, I really look up to him the way he carries his-self on and off the field.   
  
  Q. A lot of guys are taking out insurance on themselves. Is that something you've done? If so, can you talk about that decision, that process. If not, is it something you're considering?  
 A.J. GREEN: Yeah, you know, I did it. I have some insurance. I came in with my family, Coach Richt, a lot of people in my circle, and we came to the agreement I will get that. I believe it was a great decision that I made because I do have the potential of playing in the NFL one day. I could protect myself in a tragedy would happen like that, that I couldn't play football no more, so...   
  
  Q. I know you don't look ahead of anybody on the schedule, but could you talk about the rivalry with Florida and what it means to you.   
 A.J. GREEN: Coming into Georgia, Florida-Georgia is a big rivalry. You know, we just gonna take it game by game. When that game come, I believe we're going to be prepared to go out there and compete.   
  
  Q. Is it hard for you today? I know you have to bite your tongue and not talk about the NCAA thing. Is that hard for you? Is there stuff you'd like to say that you can't?  
 A.J. GREEN: No. Like I said, I still can't comment on it. It's not my place to comment on that. I don't feel like I need to.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT