ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2019
Quentin Halys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. NISHIKORI/Q. Halys   
6-2, 6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  Could you talk about the third set?  You fought back to Kei Nishikori.  And then what was in your mind to play a good game on that third set?  
QUENTIN HALYS: I felt like I played a bit better in the third set.  It wasn't during the first two sets.  But my serve wasn't here today, so it was tough to even take the third set.   
But there was some occasion I played a bit better from the baseline, but it wasn't enough to get the set.  But for sure it was the best set, but I don't play enough good today to get one set.   
 Q.  So was Kei Nishikori tough to beat, tough to play against, do you think?  
QUENTIN HALYS: Yeah, I mean, he was much better than me today.  He played a good match.  He had nothing special to do when I'm playing like this.  So I think, yeah, he just played good and that's it.  That was enough to win today.   
 Q.  What do you think about the cheering from the stands, the crowd, your French fans?  
QUENTIN HALYS: Yeah, that was good to have the fans there helping in the third set, but it's always like this in the French Open so it was like always.  And thanks to those guys because every time you are coming here, whether you play good or bad, they are here supporting me.  So that's very good.   
THE MODERATOR: Question in French.   
 Q.  What do you feel about this match, especially with the two breaks in the third set?  
QUENTIN HALYS: I never managed to play my best tennis.  I really played badly.  He's a good player.  I felt on my own during the two first sets.  I couldn't really get the balls in.   
It's hard.  I felt that the surface was slow and I didn't manage to get winners.  I have 40% of first serves, and I didn't have a lot of aces.  It was difficult to play from the baseline.   
There's a bit of positive things that we can get out of the third set, but I would have needed to achieve a major feat to really outplay him, and it's actually quite logical that he won today.   
 Q.  Even if it was a top seven in front of you, are you disappointed?  
QUENTIN HALYS: Of course my aim has always been to win.  I tried to get back on my feet but my tennis wasn't very good.  My serve was not good.  And when things are like this, then nothing is -- I can't do anything.   
It's not pleasant.  It was not a pleasant match for me, 6-2, 6-3 in one hour.  I managed to react a little bit to get back on for the third set, but it wasn't a pleasant match to play from the inside, and my best game wasn't there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT