ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2016
Quentin Halys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. CUEVAS/Q. Halys
7-6, 6-3, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.
Q. How do you feel?  You made it through the first round, which was not the case last year.  Are you satisfied?
QUENTIN HALYS: I am satisfied.  It's pretty consistent with what I've done recently.  I've played fairly good matches in general, so I'm satisfied.
Q. Your coach said that you made significant progress.  Would you agree with that?
QUENTIN HALYS: Yes.  Two years ago I wasn't where I am today, so from now on I just want to continue and grow further.
Q. Could you comment on today's match?  He's a very good player obviously, especially on clay.  You came pretty close.  What made the difference?
QUENTIN HALYS: You're right.  I was dominated in the first set.  His service was really difficult.
Then I improved a little bit.  My level was okay, but maybe I'm lacking a little bit of experience.  I think I dominated the situation during important moments but I made some mistakes, so I'm now eager to play him again.
Hopefully I can do better next time.
Q. My impression is that you have improved over the past two, three months.  There been a challenger and now Roland Garros.  What is it?  Do you think it's self-confidence?  Technical progress?
QUENTIN HALYS: I've worked hard with my coach, and yes, I have improved.  I'm improving my self-confidence as well.  Today I just feel very comfortable playing an opponent like this.
Even if I lost the match, it's okay.
Q. There has been a lot of emulation within the team of young French players.  Do you really support each other?  Do you have to build that positive climate?
QUENTIN HALYS: We're all very close, and when one of us does well -- Mathias yesterday played very well.  That's a great confidence builder.  We want to be part of this.  It's very encouraging.
Next week when we meet for training it's going to help us.  Of course we'll play each other, but eventually it will boost us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT