ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2015
Quentin Halys
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  R. NADAL/Q. Halys  6-3, 6-3, 6-4    THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   Q.  Could you tell us more about your match against Nadal?  A first for you.  What are your impressions?  QUENTIN HALYS: Well, I played my match.  I didn't really focus on who he was, who was on the court.  You know, five games to start with that were a bit tense, and then, you know, 3-3 and 4 for me.  I focused on my match, not him. He didn't make many mistakes or errors.  He was very solid, as usual.  So I had the impression that there was a fight, a match, a real match.  I'm quite satisfied with what I did.   Q.  Were you surprised by things you didn't expect from Nadal, things you wouldn't feel that you would see against him?  QUENTIN HALYS: No.  It's the first time I played against someone who hits so hard, with so much intensity, so I'm surprised because I discovered him. But he really defends well, and his serve is so difficult to return.  I expected all of this.  He shot a few passing shots, but I was not that surprised.  He doesn't miss many points.  He makes very few errors.  So you can't rest at all. During the second set I relaxed very quickly, and then I lost two games immediately.  It was very expensive price to pay.   Q.  Then after the match physically how do you feel?  Also, perhaps mentally, I suppose that it's tiring to be so concentrated.  QUENTIN HALYS: Well, there are two games I lost during the second set, you know, from 3-2 to 5-2 nervously.  I lost them quickly.  I was down a little during these two games.  And then physically I thought I was okay.  I was up to it.  And then three sets, it's not a long match. But then during these two hours, I thought I could put in a lot of intensity, and at the end of the match, I feel really good.  I fared well.   Q.  What about playing on such a huge court.  How did you feel for the very first time that you played on the center court?  QUENTIN HALYS: For the first time I felt quite good.  I discussed this with my coach.  I said such luck to play against Nadal on this court. So the first five games were difficult, but then afterwards, you know, he was hitting well and my footwork was good, but then the crowd was incredible today.  I really loved playing on this huge court.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT