NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ROCKIES v DIAMONDBACKS
October 14, 2007
Micah Owings
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions.   
  
  Q.  You never got to pitch in the division series, now you know you will get to pitch Game 4 here.  How does that feel and how will that long layoff affect you?   
 MICAH OWINGS:  First of all, not getting to pitch there, that was a good thing.  But I'm just happy to be here.  I'm going to go out and do the best I can, put my team in position to win and just take advantage of it and enjoy it.   
  
  Q.  I'd like to read you a quote from Eric Byrnes.  "They've had a little luck go their way, they've been the beneficiary of some calls.  We haven't been outplayed.  If anything, it's been the other way around."  What are your thoughts on what Eric had to say?   
 MICAH OWINGS:  I can't speak for Byrnes.  So if that's what he said -- I also don't read stuff.  So Byrnes is a great guy, great teammate and I love being around him.  So we just gotta keep going out, doing what we can do, focus on how we play.   
  
  Q.  Do you agree with what he said?   
 MICAH OWINGS:  I can't speak for him.   
  
  Q.  Are you a frustrated team right now?   
 MICAH OWINGS:  Frustrated?  I don't see how we can be frustrated, we're one of four left.  There's a lot of game left.  We go out play our game do the best we can and take care of our own business and not worry about records.  I know we were up 2-0 with Chicago, we didn't worry about being ahead or behind.  We just take each day and go out and play.   
  
  Q.  You talked about your pitching Game 4, in the event of a rainout you might be stuck on the sidelines again.  Are you getting antsy to go out there and just play, other than a pinch-hitter?   
 MICAH OWINGS:  No, I love Skip giving me the opportunity.  I couldn't be more thrilled and gracious about that.  But any time I get out there, I love this game.  It's what I've been blessed to do.  So when I have the opportunity to do it, I'm going to take full advantage of it.   
  
  Q.  Knowing you haven't pitched against Colorado before, do you think that could work more to your advantage than maybe for the Rockies?   
 MICAH OWINGS:  We like to think so.  But you never know.  You face a team first only once.  So we'll see what happens.   
  
  Q.  What has made you such a good hitter at the Major League level?  It's one thing to be a good hitter going through the ranks, but it doesn't usually translate for pitchers at the Major League level?   
 MICAH OWINGS:  It's hard to say.  I think I get in the box and I just enjoy being in the box.  Like I said, I've been blessed to play the game not only as a pitcher but to be able to swing it, too.  So whenever I get in there, I just enjoy it.  I think too many times hitters put a lot of pressure on themselves.  A lot of this year I've just kind of -- whatever I do is going to help the team, nobody is expecting me to do too much.   
  
  Q.  After the Rockies drafted you there was a period of negotiations that took a while and you didn't sign.  Did you come close?   
 MICAH OWINGS:  I thought we were real close.  Evidently I'm a strong believer in Christ and it wasn't time yet for me to go on and wouldn't take any more money for it.  Going to college was a great experience for me and being able to go to Omaha and play in Omaha in front of the crowds there play with Team U.S.A. out of college, I wouldn't give anything for it.   
  
  Q.  Being as good of a hitter as you are, how much do you study opposing pitchers during the game and how do you balance making sure you're keeping on your game as a pitcher and also preparing for hitting situations?   
 MICAH OWINGS:  I learned a long time ago you can't ever learn too much.  So I try to watch all aspects of the game when I'm not in there or when I'm in there.   
 I think I can pick up on a lot of guys that have been in situations.  We got a staff with Livan and Webb and Davis and RJ early in the year that I got to learn quite a bit from.  It's been a long year but it's been a lot of learning and fortunate to be around those guys and face a lot of guys that have had a lot of success as well.   
 So I just try to learn as much as I can while I'm here.   
  
  Q.  I've never asked a pitcher this, but here it goes.  Do you feel locked in at the plate right now (Laughter)?   
 MICAH OWINGS:  After the last at bat I don't know if I could say that.  The first two pitches I swung at, check swing, but pretty filthy.  I didn't pick them up too well.  So I don't think I can say that.  I'm just going to try to do the best I can see the ball and put that bat on it, hopefully.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT