NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v PACERS
May 29, 2014
Chris Bosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CHRIS BOSH:   We can just really go to our homes and have a good day today and let everything go today and have a good start to a great day tomorrow.

Q.   Let everything go, you mean, like frustration? 
CHRIS BOSH:   Just the game.   Frustration, happiness, whatever you have.   Just go to our homes and enjoy this nice rainy day, get into bed, and get some rest.

Q.   Spoelstra said tomorrow he wants you guys to compartmentalize.   Don't think about yesterday.   Don't think about the rest that may come ahead of it, just single‑minded focus.   Is that easier said than done? 
CHRIS BOSH:   Yeah, it's always easier said than done.   That's why everybody can't do it. 
It's very difficult.   I thought we did a very good job of doing that yesterday.   We just came up a little short, and sometimes that happens.   But for a whole body of work, you have to do each thing very well. 
It's a difficult thing, but winning a Championship is difficult.   Tomorrow's going to be difficult.   So it's fitting.

Q.   You're up 3‑2 in front of the home crowd.   So is it special tomorrow? 
CHRIS BOSH:   Yeah, it's always extra special to have a chance to play at home.   We need Miami to be very loud tomorrow. 
And we're looking forward to it.   We're going to bring our energy.   We know the crowd is going to be the loudest it's been ever, and we're ready for it.

Q.   Chris, I know this wasn't directed towards you, but what Lance did last night, is it getting tiresome of his antics? 
CHRIS BOSH:   You know what, we're here to play basketball.   All those other things‑‑ I mean, it's the Eastern Conference Finals.   I've never seen anything like that at a level of basketball like this. 
But I just treat it like a kid, like bad kids.   If they throw a tantrum on the floor, just ignore them, and they'll stop.   We just have to be conscious of what we're doing and leave all those other extracurricular activities aside.

Q.   If that was a teammate of yours, would you pull him aside‑‑
CHRIS BOSH:   Yeah.

Q.   And say stop being so immature? 
CHRIS BOSH:   Not even immature.   Just stop.   I understand it's a game and there's certain tactics for doing certain things, but we're professionals.   You play the game. 
There's such a thing as sportsmanship at the highest level, and you just have to respect the game.

Q.   Chris, is that game more emotional from the what ifs in the series [indiscernible]. 
CHRIS BOSH:   It was a lot.   It was a crazy game.   We stayed with it, but we made so many mistakes.   Oh, my God, we had so many mistakes, uncharacteristic turnovers early and often.   17 is way too many. 
We had some bad bounces on some rebounds.   We gave them 16 offensive rebounds and 17 turnovers, we're probably not going to win that game. 
If we would have won, it probably would have been a little fool's gold, but we're looking forward to putting together a complete game offensively and defensively tomorrow.

Q.   Chris, Spoelstra today was talking about the process, if there's any frustration to deal with from last night, get it out so you can have a clear head.   Was there any, and what was the process like to get rid of it? 
CHRIS BOSH:   I don't know if it's frustration.   I think everybody was a little bit ornery because we got in late last night.   In an ideal situation, we stay in bed all day. 
But just to be here to get a little bit of work in, nothing crazy.   To see each other and really just talk about some things and get on the same page, it's always good because we're going to play the best game of the year tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT