NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v PACERS
May 19, 2014
Chris Bosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  CHRIS BOSH:   It was unusual and one of those things, yes, we do get out of this team of course.   We've been doing it for years.   The way I see it, they average like 80‑something points against us, and we feel that we can score more points than that if we put ourselves in a good position. 
So we just kind of have to get back to doing what we do, do what's natural for us, and just get the job done.

Q.   Is getting back to what you do maybe getting back to a more comfortable lineup?   It seems when U.D. came in and LeBron wasn't at the four, everyone seemed to settle into a different rhythm. 
CHRIS BOSH:   LeBron being at that position, not only has to deal with West‑‑ he's very crafty.   He's one of the best at that high screen roll and that mid‑post area.   He's very tricky and tough to stop anyway, and that's if you do a good job. 
He hasn't been in that situation a bunch of times.   So whether it's U.D., whether it's me, whether it's Shane or whoever, I think playing our more classic style of matching up and really going at that lineup is better suited for us.

Q.   Chris, I know a lot of people talked about the three‑point shooting, but you had two rebounds.   How much personally, introspectively do you look and know maybe you have to get more positionally.   Can you give us some background on the two‑rebound game. 
CHRIS BOSH:   In the position I'm in, I've got a guy who's bigger than me.   My concentration is to keep him off the boards, and sometimes I'm in rotation.   I'm not really crashing offensive boards because I'm spaced, and the defensive rebounds are pretty tough to get. 
I just concentrate on keeping him off the offensive boards because I'm not as athletic as I used to be.   It's just something I have to deal with.   I'm still learning the position game, and I'm learning how to rebound out of that, and it's been a two‑year process.   It's going to take more time. 
So I just have to be patient with myself and make sure we try to our best to win the rebounding battle and we're not getting smoked on the boards before we have a chance.

Q.   Is it just a matter there aren't any comfortable matchups defensively on either side? 
CHRIS BOSH:   No, absolutely not.   That's what winning a championship is all about.   You have to just be uncomfortable.   Playing a good team, when you really have to trust your back side defense, it's like, man, this is what people feel like playing against us. 
It's not a good feeling to have to help them close out.   It's not cool.   I don't like it.   Nobody likes it.   But it's a part of the game, and that's where that trust comes in.   We're going to have to be a little more solid as far as our discipline is concerned and just rely on each other as a team.

Q.   How frustrating was it for you to have that type of Game 1 offensively? 
CHRIS BOSH:   It's not too frustrating.   We were right there in the game.   I made a couple of shots that made Hibbert think twice a little bit, but it's going to take time. 
We have another crack at it.   I'm a big believer in balance.   So like I always say, if I have a bad shooting game, that just means that another game I'm going to feel like I can't miss.   It will happen.

Q.   What do you think the biggest adjustment the team will have to make? 
CHRIS BOSH:   No huge adjustments, just taking the challenge.   Nothing huge.   We just have to take the challenge on the ball.   We have to take the challenge in the post and just do what's difficult.

Q.   Chris, it seemed like yesterday you weren't that upset with how you played offensively other than just that some shots didn't go in.   After you watched the film, do you feel that way still? 
CHRIS BOSH:   Yeah.

Q.   You were pretty much doing what you needed to do, just‑‑
CHRIS BOSH:   I mean, it was a defensive game for us.   If we score 96 points, we can win.   They can't score 107.   They haven't scored 107 all playoffs.   That's where we have to take responsibility. 
So it's not the illusion of, oh, we should have played better on offense.   We did what we were supposed to do.   Not many teams get 96 on these guys and shoot over 50 percent. 
We have to do what we're supposed to do on defense.   The offense is going to come.   Defensively, we're going to have to stop them.

Q.   But you personally, though, would like to play better offensively than yesterday? 
CHRIS BOSH:   Yeah, it will happen.

Q.   Is there anything you need to fix from that, or is it just the shots didn't go? 
CHRIS BOSH:   Shoot it.   That's it.   I like to keep it simple.   Probably up my concentration a little more.   That's how I feel if I miss some shots.   Just stay confident.

Q.   You guys have a good history of bouncing back after a bad playoff loss.   What is it about this team that seems to rise after you get beaten?   
CHRIS BOSH:   I think just the sense of urgency is heightened, of course, and after watching games that we lose, we look at things like our effort, things that we can control that could have given us a better chance, we feel like we can do a lot better. 
So that gives us confidence.   We have confidence in each other.   We know, when we come out there and it's time to really put everything on the line, I feel confident in this team that we're going to do what we're supposed to do to give ourself a chance to win.

Q.   Chris, what do you think‑‑ LeBron just said that David West is on a very short list, along with Shaq and Zeus, people in the league that are stronger than he is.   What does that say about‑‑
CHRIS BOSH:   Shaq and Zeus.

Q.   How strong is that guy?   How tough is he to defend? 
CHRIS BOSH:   He's been an All‑Star in this league, and there's a reason for that.   He's a bull pretty much in a China shop.   He knows how to use his body.   He knows how to use his strength to get to his spots, and he has a very good touch around the basket. 
So I mean, to be effective at that position and kind of be‑‑ have that undersized party, you're going to have to make up for it somewhere.   He does a fantastic job of making up for it.

Q.   So for you, which is the tougher cover, Hibbert or West? 
CHRIS BOSH:   Probably David because he can face up, he can jab, he can shoot it from the midrange.   He knows how to get you on his hip to use his ankles. 
That's no offense to Roy.   Roy, you kind of‑‑ you can kind of plan where you want him to go and what shot he's going to take.   It's just a part of leverage with him. 
David is leverage, balance, getting contested, and sometimes he's going to knock shots down in your face, and you just have to live with it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT