NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 15, 2014
Chris Bosh
Swin Cash
Dominique Wilkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  THE MODERATOR:   We'll go ahead and take questions for the players. 

Q.   Chris, just talk about hitting the two half court shots. 
CHRIS BOSH:   Straight luck.   Throw it up and you pray.   And I did a quick prayer, and they both went in.   So, if it wasn't for Dominique missing two easy ones on purpose‑‑ I knew what he was trying to do.   He was trying to get us in the zone and it worked. 
DOMINIQUE WILKINS:   That's correct. 
(Laughter.)

Q.   Chris or Dominique, how does a Georgia and a Georgia Tech guy play so well together?
DOMINIQUE WILKINS:   It's easy, even though those schools are big‑time rivalries, it's still a Georgia school, so you still have some type of a relationship, outside of the sport.   If we play each other, it's a totally different story.   I'm sure he'll tell you the same thing.
CHRIS BOSH:   I forgot you were from Georgia, man.   I forgot. 
DOMINIQUE WILKINS:   It's a fierce rivalry for many, many years, but we still are guys that played in the state of Georgia.   And that was a wonderful feeling to be a part of sports in Georgia. 
Don't be shy.   Ask these questions now. 

Q.   For Chris, how did you decide to shoot sort of a jump shot from half court, because most of the other guys shot from their stomach. 
CHRIS BOSH:   Yeah, I was actually shooting before.   I told him earlier I was shooting before, and I didn't hit one shot.   I think I hit two.   But it was about two out of 200.   And I just decided to switch it up last minute and just shoot my normal regular jump shot, because I have range. 
I keep asking Coach to let me shoot that shot in the game.   He won't let me do it yet, but I think that today will give him confidence if he was watching. 

Q.   Swin, what's it like playing with those two guys?
SWIN CASH:   It's a lot of fun.   It's a lot of fun because we don't take ourselves too serious, except for when they were up there, they picked every team to win besides us and I took it personal, so I said, go ahead, guys, take the half court shot. 
So that's what happened.   Actually, I didn't.   But we had fun.   Dominique keeps me laughing.   It's a great thing.   At the end of the day it's for a great cause.   A lot of money is going to charity. 

Q.   Swin, are you going to be able to keep this team together for New York next year?
SWIN CASH:   I feel like Kevin Hart right now.   We need to go for a three‑pete.   New York, NBA what's up?   Are you going to come back?   All right.   There you go. 

Q.   Not sure what the rules are, but who gets the cup? 
DOMINIQUE WILKINS:   Everybody. 

Q.   All three of you?
CHRIS BOSH:   We cut it up into three pieces (laughter)   and we send I think‑‑ I claim the middle.   So I'm getting the middle piece, and they get what's left over.   We all get one. 

Q.   Chris, which back to back was harder and more satisfying?
CHRIS BOSH:   Good question.   Today's back to back was extremely difficult.   They were both hard.   It's tough dealing with expectations, but that's what champions do.   We just find a way. 
SWIN CASH:   But you guys are asking the wrong question.   You know what happened after we won this trophy last year with him?   So, he won it here, and then?   He's still trying to get another repeat.
CHRIS BOSH:   Good luck there.   She put it out there. 
SWIN CASH:   Just putting it out there.
CHRIS BOSH:   So just receive it and keep talking about it, so because we need your help, so thank you. 
DOMINIQUE WILKINS:   Personally I was hoping that he made that shot, because I was running out of gas (laughter), to tell you the truth.   So I'm glad he kind of hit that shot. 
But it's all about kind of getting a little luck, measuring the right shot, and you happen to get a chance to knock two down.   So he kind of saved us.   Just a little bit. 

Q.   Chris, is this the real big three right here that we're looking at? 
(Laughter.)
CHRIS BOSH:   Oh, yeah, this is definitely the big three, man.
SWIN CASH:   We're a traveling circus. 
CHRIS BOSH:   Yeah, we're big three, back to back.   See the similarities?   There you go, man. 
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT