NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 19, 2013
Chris Bosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CHRIS BOSH:   You never give up.   People gave up on us, and they can stay where they are and watch the game at home.   

Q.   Did you like the punishment?   They didn't let them back in.   
CHRIS BOSH:   Yeah, you can't get let back in after you leave.   I know that.   Hell, I've been to games.   You can't leave a game and then come back.   It doesn't make any sense.   You left.   It's not punishment; that's protocol.   

Q.   Can you talk about LeBron's performance down the stretch.   
CHRIS BOSH:   I guess it's like (Indiscernible) tastes his own blood.   Just goes crazy.   I mean, it was an incredible performance by him.   You could tell he didn't want to give up.   He had the will to win it.   He just gave it his all.   He came through in huge situations.   We're going to need another, a better performance from the team and from him tomorrow.   

Q.   When was the last time you seen him without the headband?   
CHRIS BOSH:   Yeah, it happened like once.   And it was only for a couple of possessions.   He was like hey, give me my headband back.   I was surprised.   I thought he was going to put his cape back on.   But he did well without it.   

Q.   In the case of the missing and then draining the triple‑‑ 
CHRIS BOSH:   He was missing everything.   That was incredible.   That wasjust a funny sequence.   I was just hoping we weren't going to turn it over and he was going to have to run back on defense or anything.   
But Mike can shoot the ball.   Shoes, no shoes, whatever.   I think it just speaks to the whole essence of the game last night.   

Q.   How do you avoid the letdown?   I know San Antonio just answered questions how do they recover, but as a team with such an emotional win, is that reality and how do you avoid a letdown after a game like that?   
CHRIS BOSH:   I think it's kind of like you have a second chance on life.   You're not going to waste it.   We were revived.   We were dead, and we brought ourselves back to life.   And we're happy to be in the situation.   We know we still have a lot more work to do, that just to be here, we're going to play I think the best basketball we've ever played together tomorrow.   




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT