NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 15, 2013
Chris Bosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   It's two wins.   Best two out of three.   
CHRIS BOSH:   I think each one of us is ready for the challenge.   We need to bring this to the team.   We have to do it with defense first, not just worrying about our shots.   
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible).   
CHRIS BOSH:   Yeah, that's cool and all.   I don't want to just hang our hats too much on our success.   
   
 Q.   I want to know your description about‑‑ make sure you have a chance to play Game 6 in Miami for sure.   
CHRIS BOSH:   I mean, Game 5, man.   We can't worry about Game 6.   It's nice to have home court, but we're in San Antonio right now.   Can't be in two places at one time.   We've got to focus on right now.   
   
 Q.   You've seen all the coaching changes this summer.   11 or 12 of them now.   What's it been like to be in an organization that does seem to have some stability at the top and doesn't make knee‑jerk reactions when there is a rough patch here and there?   
CHRIS BOSH:   It's not typical.   I can tell you that much.   I've been a part of organizations where the GMs and coaches have been like the players in and out.   Here it's comforting to know that you can work with the same people and get to know the same people.   
It's always going to be those times when you're working together and you don't like each other.   You learn that's part of it.   Everybody has a common goal, and to keep that group intact, to get that goal, I think it's a great situation.   
   
 Q.   Is it even more impressive considering the microscope that you guys are under and that there is a lot of scrutiny and there probably have been a lot of second‑guessers?   
CHRIS BOSH:   There's been a lot.   Hey, when people don't see success right away, they just want to fire everybody and trade everybody and move on from there.   But it takes patience.   I think a lot of people up top here understand that.   The coaching staff understands that.   I think we're in a position to really be successful hopefully for a while.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT