NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 11, 2013
Chris Bosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Miami Heat - 77
  San Antonio Spurs - 113 
   
 Q.   Is maybe one of the solutions for this not to happen again is to go back to some of the things you were doing in Game 2 with LeBron and Wade, trying to post‑up more a little bit and go into the paint?   
CHRIS BOSH:   Well, I think we did a pretty decent job getting into the paint.   We just didn't capitalize.   You have to give credit to their defense.   They played a great defensive game.   They gave us a lot of different looks, and we just weren't really able to turn the corner.   We missed a lot of shots.   We missed a lot of open shots, missed some lay‑ups.   Every time we missed, the thing that really hurt was they converted.   We didn't play very good defense tonight, obviously.   
So that's what it's about.   We can't really put it too much on the offense.   
   
 Q.   Chris, you just talked about defense.   Spo was out here talking about defense.   What specifically went wrong for you guys defensively?   Dwyane talked about trust issues as well on that end.   
CHRIS BOSH:   Well, I mean, we had some instances where we didn't close the shooters.   Neal and Green lit us up pretty good tonight.   I think they were comfortable all game.   I think that's pretty obvious when you look at the stats sheet.   Even then we didn't contain them very well.   We had a few pump fakes, we were really jumping up in the air, and then our help on the back side wasn't as quick as it normally is.   
You know, we were a step slow tonight, which is really unacceptable for us.   But we just have to take it on the chin and move on and try to get the next game.   
   
 Q.   Chris, can you remember playing in a series, a big series such as this one, where the role players seemed to be having as big or bigger effect on the outcomes than the quote, unquote, stars?   You look at Neal and Green tonight, Mike and Mario for you in Game 2.   It seems like those are the ones making a difference.   
CHRIS BOSH:   I think if you look at every series in the past in basketball, the role players are going to have big series.   Even if the best players out there, the superstars and everything, are really getting their regular numbers, having big games.   You usually have role players that are usually doing what they're supposed to do.   
The Spurs, they're spread out.   They have a lot of guys who can do a lot of things.   They're very unselfish, and they move the basketball very well.   And those guys are really aggressive.   
Like I said before, we didn't do a very good job of running them off the three‑point line.   They pretty much got everything they wanted tonight, which is a very dangerous game to play, in particular with this team.   
   
 Q.   Chris, you guys were the most efficient offensive team in the league during the regular season.   Seems like they are daring you to take outside shots.   Are you surprised by their packing the paint the whole series?   
CHRIS BOSH:   I'm not too surprised.   I've seen it before.   We've seen situations like this where like you said they are daring us to take shots.   Sometimes we're going to have to step up and knock those down with confidence.   We just have to really get a better feel for the game, because guys, unless you make them pay for going under screen‑and‑rolls and playing so packed in the paint, they're always going to stay there.   
We took some outside shots, we just didn't hit them.   We have to go to the drawing board, really see what kind of schemes they're running and really give ourselves confidence to play, no matter what coverage they have.   
   
 Q.   Considering how evenly matched these teams are, are you so surprised the last two games have been played to such extremes?   What do you expect from the rest of the series based on the trend that's already been?   
CHRIS BOSH:   I would like to predict the future, and act like I'm a smart guy, but I don't know.   I wouldn't think that‑‑ I thought we would play a much better game tonight.   I expected a close game, of course.   We expected them to respond.   And they did.   They responded way better than we thought.   And we didn't.   
So just moving forward, I think it's a difficult feel to get with the rhythm of this series.   It's been a very odd series so far.   I'm sure it's going to continue to be just as crazy as the last six days have been.   
   
 Q.   Chris, you and LeBron combined to go 4‑of‑17 from mid‑range.   Is it just a matter of confidence at this point?   What else can you guys do to spark some offense inside the paint?   
CHRIS BOSH:   I mean, we had some opportunities in the paint.   We didn't capitalize as much as usual.   But the mid‑range, we practice them and you shoot them in the game.   There's not much of a science to it.   I think I missed like five straight shots in the beginning of the game.   I couldn't believe it.   
But those are the shots that are there.   I will continue to take those.   And it's really all about confidence.   You have to step into it, be aggressive, shoot the basketball without thinking and make or miss, move on to the next play.   
   
 Q.   Chris, LeBron mentioned after the game that he didn't get to the free‑throw line.   That's the first time that's happened since 2009.   What do you make of the fact that he wasn't even at the line one time tonight?   
CHRIS BOSH:   He didn't get to the line.   That's pretty much it.   I don't know‑‑ it's really hard to tell during the course of the game what's going on.   
Like I say, you have to give credit to their defense.   They're a very good team.   Two best basketball teams in the league playing for a championship.   And they're going to have certain things that they're going to try to do.   
I don't think they expect to keep LeBron off of the line totally.   That's the easiest part of our game.   
No matter what happens, we just have to continue to push forward, try to get there, making that a relative point in our game plan, and if they continue to really pack that paint, we move the ball, we swing it, we take shots that are there, and eventually they'll step out.   Then we can kind of get more to our game a little bit.   
   
 Q.   Given how tough it's been for LeBron offensively in three games, do you sense at all perhaps he has lost some confidence in himself?   
CHRIS BOSH:   Absolutely not.   He's the best player in the world.   That's a proven fact.   He's going to have to play better if we want to win this series.   We're going to have to play better.   The coaches have to coach better.   It's just an all‑around effort.   We're going to help him get to where he needs to go.   
But individually I don't think confidence is an issue.   He's just going to really just move on from this game and we have confidence in him that he's really going to play a lot better along with all of us.   
   
 Q.   Chris, I want you to be very sincere with us.   You always have been that way with the media.   How can you grade your performance so far in the series until now, from 1 to 10?   
CHRIS BOSH:   2 to 1 is the series right now.   Anytime you don't win, of course you want to be critical of yourself, but I don't think now is the time to really grade ourselves.   
We could give ourselves an easy "F" tonight.   But, you know, that's the reason you play a series.   You really have to stay even.   You have to really keep your head, and we just have to do the things that got us here, keep trusting each other, and make sure the rest of the games from here on out are all 10s.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT