NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 8, 2013
Chris Bosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Chris, have these two days been tough listening to the questions? 
CHRIS BOSH:   Well, it's just tough waiting.   Usually playing every other day you get an opportunity to really get back out there and try to redeem yourself.   The toughest thing is just waiting.   Questions are part of the process.   I think we all pros and we understand that. 
We're just ready to get back out there and start playing again. 

Q.   Coach described yesterday watching film, he said it was painful.   What was it like for you? 
CHRIS BOSH:   I guess you can say that.   It is painful just to know that we're in a championship series and we lost a game that we felt we made too many mistakes and we gave it away.   And they're a good team.   They took every opportunity of every mistake that we made, and they made us pay.   To know that we shot ourselves in the foot, it hurts.   Especially when you watch it on film again.   But it's encouraging at the same time to know that if we play a better game we'll have a better chance of winning. 

Q.   What do you normally do the night before a game?   Any rituals? 
CHRIS BOSH:   No, just hang out.   Watch some TV.   That's about it. 

Q.   The team seems to be loose. 
CHRIS BOSH:   Are we supposed to be tight? 

Q.   I'm asking you. 
CHRIS BOSH:   I mean, yeah, we're loose.   Life goes on.   We've been in this situation before.   It's really not much really to talk about.   We have to win Game 2.   It just kind of really frees you up a lot more.   Frees your mind up a little more.   We know what our schemes are.   We know our mindset going into them all.   We're in a must‑win situation. 

Q.   What's the balance between the confidence you all have, because you've been able to bounce back, versus resting on laurels? 
CHRIS BOSH:   I mean, you want to have confidence, but you can still lose.   And that fear kind of drives this team a little bit.   It gives us more of that sense of urgency to really do a much better job and have a much better focus the next game. 
And I think everybody knows that.   We feel comfortable with each other.   Everybody is a true professional here.   For some reason when our backs are against the wall, we really respond appropriately.   That kind of propels us to the rest of the series. 
Maybe when we look back on this we'll say losing Game 1 was the best thing that happened for us. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT