NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 7, 2013
Chris Bosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHRIS BOSH:   We're going to get a better feel for them defensively.   But I think we played good defense for the most part numbers‑wise.   I think offensively we just had a couple of lapses, and that cost us the game.   
   
 Q.   When you look at five turnovers in the fourth, they're uncharacteristic of this team not to be able to finish.   Is that, when you look back at the game, where you think the game was decided?   
CHRIS BOSH:   I mean, you know, it's never really about one quarter or one possession, but it played a huge part in it.   We had a chance to increase our leads a couple of times or take the lead back or bring it within two or tie the game, and we failed to do that.   
We haven't been in this position before, but our attention to detail is going to have to pick back up.   Sometimes you have to slip or stumble a little bit to really get back on the horse.   We feel that we can play a lot better basketball.   
   
 Q.   Chris, you have had success shooting the three last year's playoffs, this year's playoffs.   Do you feel like last night they were kind of giving you the shot versus Ray Allen and a Mike Miller, and obviously you want to get the confidence where you can make it.   
CHRIS BOSH:   Well, I mean, they can give it to me, I'll take it.   I'll take any open shot.   I just missed a couple‑‑ I think one was a bad shot.   I probably could have had a better option.   If they want to leave me open, then that's cool with me.   
   
 Q.   Chris, you talked about, it was after Game 6, just getting into the gym and you took a lot of the burden.   Are you feeling any more comfortable with the shot?   Was last night some opens shots you wish you got back?   Or do you feel it's coming at all?   After Game 7?   
CHRIS BOSH:   I mean, it's only been two games.   I'm not going to compromise my whole body of work off of one series or two games or three games, or half a season, for that matter.   I just have to capitalize on situations.   
You know, sometimes you're just going to miss shots.   I understand that.   You have to have the confidence and really the know‑how to be able to let it go and move on to the next possession and the next shot.   
   
 Q.   Earlier when you guys were able to get Tim Duncan into foul trouble, is that something that you really focused on going in?   Something you need to continue going into Game 2?   
CHRIS BOSH:   You can't control that.   All you can control is attacking.   You can't say we're going to get Tim in foul trouble or we're going to get this player in foul trouble.   It doesn't work like that.   You just be aggressive.   
We had chances where we could have been more aggressive early and late in the game.   But we know that going into Game 2.   I think we'll play a lot better, we'll be a lot more aggressive, and that will kind of really steamroll everything else.   We'll play a better game.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT