NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 5, 2013
Chris Bosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Being aggressive is that the mindset you think the Spurs will take in this series?   
CHRIS BOSH:   Yeah, of course.   We always want to be aggressive individually and as a team.   You know, I want to really get going early offensively in games, because it helps me, we play better, I think I play better.   Just coming out being aggressive and just really looking for my spots that establishes me early.   And I think it propels me for the rest of the game.   
   
 Q.   Have you been hard on yourself with rebounding?   And are you expecting a certain amount of rebounding in this series?   
CHRIS BOSH:   I haven't been hard on myself.   Just go get the ball.   It's not really much of a science to it.   Everybody's technique is different.   It's just about competing at a high level of intensity and going and getting the ball and not really worrying about anything else.   
   
 Q.   What is your relationship been with Tim‑‑  
CHRIS BOSH:   No, we don't have no relationship.   Of course we respect him‑‑ I respect him as a player.   But that's about it.   
   
 Q.   Do you look towards his game at all?   Do you try to look at what he does?   
CHRIS BOSH:   No.   They're the opponent.   I'm not trying to make friends or‑‑ Tim Duncan of course is one of the greats.   He's a champion.   I know everybody is going to try to make him out to be a nice guy.   You can't be nice and win championships (Indiscernible).  
   
 Q.   How impressed are you with him at his age to be playing at the level he's playing at?   
CHRIS BOSH:   I think it's cool.   It's really great what he's done over‑‑ not only over the course of his career, but how he defined his game.   Of course they mix and match around him.   He fits in very well.   Everybody complements each other.   He continues to keep going, and he's a big part of the series.   We're going to have do a good job.   
   
 Q.   Do you expect to open up with UD on Duncan‑‑  
CHRIS BOSH:   I mean, we'll do that.   It's not my call.   It's whatever the coaches want us to do.   I'm just playing the game.   They execute.   They bring out the game plan.   We try to execute it as best as we can.   
   
 Q.   How different is the challenge defending Duncan compared with Hibbert?   
CHRIS BOSH:   Well, this is‑‑ they have the pick‑and‑roll element as well.   Indiana did a great job with the pick‑and‑roll as well.   But they have a spread floor.   So it's going to be a little different.   It's kind of like our practices playing each other.   They're going to spread each other.   They're going to pick‑and‑roll hard to the basket.   They are just going to have more of a mix of everything.   
I think Indiana they were really traditional with the post‑ups and the four and fives.   They did a fantastic job doing it.   We had to focus in to stop it.   
   
 Q.   How much of a difference is it?   You had a youthful group with Indiana.   Now you have a veteran group.   How much more disciplined do you think both sides are going to be?   
CHRIS BOSH:   You're really going to have to trust the habits and the characteristics you built over the season and over your career.   They're really going to test you to do the things you're supposed to do.   
Like I said before, they're going to spread the floor.   They're going to challenge everybody to run them off the three‑point line.   We're going to have to guard that.   And it's going to be a lot of quick passing.   We're going to have to really play solid team defense to win this series.   
   
 Q.   What are the similarities and differences between the Heat's Big Three and the Spurs' Big Three?   
CHRIS BOSH:   It's more of a team thing.   I know everybody has the Big Three thing.   I don't think anybody asked for the nickname.   It's been like that.   It's the Spurs and the Heat.   We can't get caught up in Big Three and all that stuff.   It's a total team effort.   Each team did not get here by relying solely on that.   You can't play three on three.   You know what I'm saying?   We have to play well as a team, play well inside our system, and the team that plays the best series is going to win.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT