NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 31, 2013
Chris Bosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What kind of sense of urgency do you expect them to ratchet up?   
    CHRIS BOSH:   Well, I mean, they're going to give it everything they have.   We expect probably their starters are going to play more minutes than usual.   But we have to exceed that.   We know they're going to come out with a lot of energy, especially in front of their home crowd.   But at the end of the day after all that is over, you have to play basketball.   
    We're going to have to match and exceed their effort, like I said before, and try to win the game.   
   
 Q.   How frustrating is it for you not to get off like you obviously want to in these games?   
    CHRIS BOSH:   Why would it be?   We're up 3‑2.   If it's there, the opportunity is there, I'm going to take advantage.   But this is a defensive series, and what I'm focusing on is defensive rebounding.   If I do that, we win the game, nobody remembers stats.   
   
 Q.   It's a fine line for you as far as how many shots you would like to take, if you like to drive, dribble a little bit last night.   How tough is that call as far as where the shots come from in this series?   
    CHRIS BOSH:   It's been a little bit of everywhere.   But that's why my job is difficult.   I've embraced that challenge.   I think I'm getting a better rhythm as this series goes on.   But‑‑ they're hugging me a little bit on the perimeter, so sometimes if you do that, you're doing your job.   Me knowing that, it helps me to know that I've done my job.   
   
 Q.   LeBron said he had to do more‑‑ kind of go back to his Cleveland days, and be more offensive in the third quarter.   Was part of that Wade was hurting, you weren't having a great game, and you're battling Hibbert, was that some of the factors that he realized he had to score more?   
    CHRIS BOSH:   I mean, I don't think so.   Sometimes you have to have a certain mentality.   If that helped him in the situation he's in, that's great.   But he had a lot of opportunities.   We rely heavily on him offensively.   You know, sometimes when everything isn't working, sometimes guys have to revert back to what they used to do.   
    I think we'll all have a chance eventually to do that, just based on how the series is going.   He's a big part of this team, of course, and he was able just to get a lot of looks and just to be able to really put his imprint on the game.   
   
 Q.   Is there such a thing as shifting too much burden to him?   Or do you think he can pretty much handle anything?   
    CHRIS BOSH:   No, I mean, we take pressure off of him.   Even if he's driving to the lane, he's still kicking at the shooters.   We're still spaced out.   
    We're going to make you pay if you pay too much attention to him.   That allows him to do what he needs to do down low, driving.   He's such an unselfish player, he doesn't hesitate to make that pass.   So we're always ready.   
   
 Q.   With size and combined with the fact you're being asked to do more and different things, you have to be everywhere, on the outside and on the inside, is this the most challenging task for you in a playoff series since you've gotten here against this team do you think?   
    CHRIS BOSH:   No.   I think being hurt was more challenging.   
   
 Q.   As far as when you're healthy, the teams you played, this is even more so than Dallas in 2010 or The Finals last year?   
    CHRIS BOSH:   Say that again?   
   
 Q.   Is this even more challenging for you personally than even the NBA Finals just because of their size and how Hibbert has improved, because you're being asked to do so many different things?   
    CHRIS BOSH:   I think the responsibility is a little more widespread.   Against other teams it was pretty simple.   Except against Dallas.   They were very versatile.   We were just really trying to learn how to play on that level and at that stage.   
    But here it's kind of that grind‑it‑out basketball.   They have two very good low‑post scorers.   Sometimes the offense really isn't the most important thing in this series.   So me knowing that, I just try to do as best as I can on defense, make sure I can try to slow those guys down, keep them off the boards.   And if I have opportunities on offense, don't force it.   But be aggressive when I have a chance.   
   
 Q.   How important do you feel a fast start is for you guys tomorrow night?   
    CHRIS BOSH:   Well, I think it's pretty important.   We don't want them to get off to a fast start.   We want to kind of establish ourselves early.   And it's always the idea coming into the games, if you're able to really jump on a team in an elimination game situation, that they start to battle themselves a little bit more.   You know it makes it kind of a tough hill to climb for them.   
   
 Q.   Going into Indiana, you guys are obviously on the road, a little out of your comfort zone.   What do you guys need to do to help yourselves‑‑  
    CHRIS BOSH:   Just play the game.   The urgency is going to be there, intensity.   Eastern Conference Finals Game 6 elimination game.   I don't think we have to synthetically muster up any feelings.   They're going to be there.   
    We love playing on the road.   We love responding to challenges.   And we'll have our chance.   We just have to show up and stick together and do our thing.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT