NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 27, 2013
Chris Bosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
CHRIS BOSH:   I think they had Jason Terry guarding him a few times.   You know we didn't put him in positions to make them pay.   But sometimes failure is the best medicine for you, it's to see what you need to improve on.   
He's taking everything very great as a player.   He's worked on things he could really benefit this team with.   Post play has been devastating for the opposing defense.   
   
 Q.   Do you think you guys took your best punch and maybe you've reestablished a little bit of control in your direction in this series?   
CHRIS BOSH:   Well, we established control.   Of course Game 3s are always extremely important.   A lot of momentum can swing either way.   But I think their best punch will be next game.   They played us well on the road.   And at home we played well.   
So we're trying to make sure we continue to do what we need to do in order to win.   And I'm sure they'll be a lot more desperate tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   You guys are unbeaten in the playoffs on the road this year.   Why do you guys like playing on the road so much?   
CHRIS BOSH:   There's a higher degree of difficulty.   You're a lot more uncomfortable on the road.   A lot more unsure of yourself and your team.   That creates a sense of coming together and more of a sense of urgency, because there's no question of if you're going to play your best.   You have to play your best on the road if you're going to win.   
That kind of atmosphere, we live for that, we stand up to it, and we're able to capitalize.   We just have to do it again.   
   
 Q.   What's more satisfying, having 20,000 on the road cheering for you or quieting 20,000 away from home?   
CHRIS BOSH:   They're both equally great.   At home‑‑ home crowd is always a different energy.   On the road it's always a different energy.   But you still get great feelings from either one.   
   
 Q.   With UD's effort last night, some people think if they are not hitting the jumper, maybe not take it.   But he goes out and hits eight of nine.   What did that do to spark you guys?   
CHRIS BOSH:   It's just‑‑ when you see him doing well on offense, usually that's a 90‑plus, because he doesn't get many opportunities.   Maybe that's our fault as teammates, for not finding him a lot more.   
When he's aggressive, that's going to put a little more stress on Hibbert, because he's always patrolling in the paint.   UD, he's deadly out to about 18 feet.   He's extremely consistent with that shot.   I know a lot of people are very surprised.   But we expect that out of him.   
Tomorrow we want him to continue to be aggressive.   If he has his shot, shoot it with confidence.   If he doesn't, keep moving the basketball.   
   
 Q.   What's the biggest area of growth do you think for Erik Spoelstra since you've been here as head coach?   
CHRIS BOSH:   Just managing situations.   It's not so much going to be the X's and O's with this team that plays a huge part.   It's more so about composure, being resilient, having the guts to stand up and live through the adversity, and just practicing what you preach when it really hits.   
It's not always an easy thing to do, but he's done a very good job of just meeting challenges and staying‑‑ like he says‑‑ staying the course.   I'm sure you've heard that a million times from him.   That's a big thing that he does.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT