NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 23, 2013
Chris Bosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Coach Vogel was saying he almost feels more confident because he knows there's a lot more that his team is capable of.   Erik just told us the same thing, that you have yet to get‑‑ as he always says‑‑ "your game."   
Do you guys believe you've shown you're A game in these playoffs?   And do you think you've shown you're A game in Game 1 of this series?   
CHRIS BOSH:   I think the closest we came was Game 2 against Chicago when it was just an all‑out blitz for 48 minutes.   I don't think we've gotten to that perfect strata yet.   And like I said, maybe we'll be searching and searching until the last game of the year.   
But it's all about the quest to find (Indiscernible) for us.   Yesterday we turned the ball over way too much.   We had so many defensive lapses.   We got away with one.   That's how we feel.   We didn't play close to our capabilities.   
   
 Q.   Can you compare your two halves?   Almost a different player in the second half?   Is it something you said to yourself halftime?   Something strategically you guys changed?   
CHRIS BOSH:   Who me personally?   Well, I was in foul trouble.   So I really never built a rhythm.   I know if I'm out there, if I'm on the court, I can be able to really see what the defense is doing.   I can be able to be effective if I get minutes.   So I just have to stay out of foul trouble.   That way I can be effective.   
   
 Q.   In your opinion, based on what happened last night, is this the type of series that you can expect going forward?   
CHRIS BOSH:   We expected that before.   It's a good team.   Indiana is a very good team.   You don't make it to the Eastern Conference Finals being some pushovers.   They are a very good team.   They've proven that throughout the season.   They've been very consistent.   
We knew it was going to be a very tough series.   Any time you're playing against a very good defensive team, it's going to be possession by possession.   
We had 20 turnovers.   That really just kind of snowballed to a bunch of things we didn't want to.   We're going to have to do a lot better job on the glass and taking care of that ball.   
   
 Q.   You counteract their big front line much better than you did earlier in the season.   How much is Birdman a factor?   
CHRIS BOSH:   I mean, Bird, he's doing a very good job of passing and finishing.   Our guards are doing a fantastic job of finding him.   It's really all about the spacing.   I think we're going to have opportunities when we have lay‑ups and open shots against this team, because if we get past the first line of defense, we know that second is going to be there.   And that's when we can really move to the open spot and find effective areas.   
We just have to finish.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT