NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2015
Chris Bosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  What are your goals for the Heat for the second half?  CHRIS BOSH: Get over .500.  You know, compete for a seed in the playoffs.   Q.  Why is .500 important to you?  CHRIS BOSH: We're below it.   Q.  What does that mark mean to you?  CHRIS BOSH: It means we can move past it.  That's something that we're under, like I said before, right now.  And if we get over that, we can get rid of the losing-record-mentality thing and just move past it.  And being in the Eastern Conference, that means certain things. So we'll be able to kind of -- hopefully, like I said, make a move and do some good things and be a strong team when it comes playoff time.   Q.  What do you think about being in New York?  It's rather cold.  CHRIS BOSH: Yeah, it's cold.  It's bringing back some memories of me living in the winter.  Yeah.  It's refreshing my memory quite a bit.  Everything is going great.   Q.  What is your experience like in The Garden and what do you think of the expansion?  CHRIS BOSH: I think it's awesome.   Q.  What do you think about the expansion into Africa?  CHRIS BOSH: I think it's awesome.  You know, the NBA expanding into Africa more and more as the seasons go on.  My experiences in Ghana, South Africa were amazing.  Just amazing to see how passionate kids are about the game.  Passionate about kids.  Building courts, giving kids the opportunity to participate in mini-camp and hopefully go to college, and see what they can do after that is great.   Q.  (Inaudible) .  CHRIS BOSH: Playing center (inaudible) was not fun.  You were there for that.  You remember how that was.  It's kind of baptism by fire a little bit.  You have to get beat up.  That's how the league is.  You have to get tough.  You have to bring the proper mindset.  And if you don't, you will get run over.   Q.  Chris, this is Tim Duncan's 15th All-Star Game.  How impressive is that number to you?  And what makes him a perennial All-Star?  CHRIS BOSH: He's Tim Duncan.  He's the greatest of all time.  Just him being able to transform his game, I don't really know how -- I thought he was going to -- every time you think he's going to play -- he's an All-Star.  I don't get it.  I don't think I'm going to be able to do that.  But just to show his commitment to the team, what he's done with his body to make sure he can continue to play and have this longevity that he's had is truly amazing.   Q.  Is he the greatest of all time?  CHRIS BOSH: Yeah, he was.  He was.  Him being in Texas and me being from Dallas, closer, he was very, very good at what he did.  You watch him now, I don't want to make him feel old, but me watching him at a young age in high school, middle school, he's one of the guys that elevated my game.   Q.  You are the most elegant player?  CHRIS BOSH: Thank you.   Q.  What about the game?  CHRIS BOSH: The game?  I'm just happy to be here.  I'm just happy to be here.  Being called elegant, that's nice.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT