NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 15, 2013
Chris Bosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How are you enjoying being here?  
CHRIS BOSH:   It's cool.   It's awesome.   I'm happy.   It's always exciting just to be not only here for the All‑Star Weekend, but only a few guys get to start.   
   
 Q.   You said you were not going to bribe him?  
CHRIS BOSH:   No, nothing was necessary.   I can't say that my wife didn't make her case for it.   But I stayed clear.   I let him be.   
   
 Q.   When did you know you were officially in?  
CHRIS BOSH:   Today.  
   
 Q.   You're having one of the best seasons in your career, lights out.   55 percent, how is that?  
CHRIS BOSH:   My teammates make it easy for me.   Usually I'm just shooting open jumpers, you have to shoot them with confidence.   But I think that's part of our chemistry.   We're making it a lot easier for each other by playing off each other.  
   
 Q.   You found out last year that small ball was good for you, but it puts you in a position to guard the biggest guy on the other team?  
CHRIS BOSH:   It's part of what we do.   We're dynamic to look at the different ways of playing.   And I think that gives us a lot of flexibility.   And it's part of what we do.   
   
 Q.   What needs to happen for you to repeat this year?  
CHRIS BOSH:   We just have to really just get around Indiana, New York, Chicago, there are some tough teams.   We're going to have to play our best basketball.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
CHRIS BOSH:   Yeah, I think it's time for us to play a lot better on the road.   It's tough on us and we're struggling and everything a little early.   With all that said, we still have made improvements.   We don't want to be playing just basketball, we can improve.   We can get a lot better.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
CHRIS BOSH:   My dad, he lives in Miami now.   But just talking to my family, and I played my first All‑Star Game here.   Coming back around, full circle, being able to start, it's a dream come true, just being in this situation.   
   
 Q.   Have you guys talked about that at all, it's the first time you've played together, the first time would have been here?  
CHRIS BOSH:   Well, either that or the Olympics or one of the world championships, one or the other.   We're starting to get some years under our belt.   
   
 Q.   Can you take a few minutes to enjoy where you're at.   
 CHRIS BOSH:   Yeah, all the time.   It's really indescribable, just to not only win a championship but being in a great locker room and just have fun doing it, but just to be an All‑Star, to play with great teammates.   I mean to play in front of a lot of people in arenas every night, I don't take those things for granted.  
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
CHRIS BOSH:   It's taken some adjustment, we had to get used to it.   But we're managing.   And we have to take the mindset that you don't want to be the guy that's being chased.   You want to chase everybody else.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT