NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 14, 2014
Chris Bosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   As this series progresses, there is a lot more question and speculation about the big three and if you guys think about what you're going to do in the summer.   Are those questions fair?   Are those questions distractions?   Do you think about your future right now?   
CHRIS BOSH:   No, in a situation like this, no.   I'm just thinking about tomorrow.   As far as everything else, they're just questions.   People are free to ask as many questions as they want.   It's our job to make sure we're putting 100% into the game, and it's going to require that from here on out.   So we're putting all of our undivided attention on tomorrow's Game 5.  
   
 Q.   Can a little bit of the motivation be the factor that the team is never the same year to year, but major changes could be coming and you want to win a championship and win as the big three?   
CHRIS BOSH:   I just want to win Game 5.   I'm telling you, that is the key.   People can speculate and things like that, but that's not what we do.   We're on the road.   We have to take very small parts and goals and break them up and make sure we accomplish those.   Right now we can't even discuss that.   We can't even talk about that because we need to win.   
We'll have plenty of time to ponder.   Everybody can ask their questions and some of them might even get answers.   We'll see what happens.  
   
 Q.   How do you guys reestablish who you are as a basketball team?   
CHRIS BOSH:   Reestablish?   We don't have to reestablish nothing.   We just have to win the game, pretty much.   We've taken a beating up until this point.   We've talked about it.   We've formulated plans and all that stuff.   But it's as simple as winning tomorrow's game, and we've won on the road in must‑win situations, and we feel we can do that again.  
   
 Q.   What did you guys do in the last 24 hours?   I know you had a day off, but what did you do today that will actually help?   
CHRIS BOSH:   Well, today was a normal practice.   We got to have yesterday off, which was nice.   After a beat down like that, you want to be lost for a little bit and get back on the horse and start preparing again.   
So we had a great practice today, and flying, and now we're here.   So today has been perfect.  
   
 Q.   Is it shocking a little today still what's happened or are there other emotions now instead and what are those emotions?   
CHRIS BOSH:   No, those emotions are getting the job done.   I want to get the job done.   I'm excited.   I can't wait.   And, no, we don't have time to be shocked and awe and all that stuff otherwise the same effect will happen tomorrow.   So we get over it.   We get over it quick and we carry on.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT