NBA FINALS: HEAT v THUNDER
June 13, 2012
Chris Bosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  CHRIS BOSH:   A huge issue today and tomorrow until the game starts tomorrow, but it doesn't really matter for me.   Like I've been saying, if coach wants to put me out there, I'm more than available.   I've started a bunch of games in this league.   I'm ready to go. 

Q.   As far as your performance, how did you feel being out there for the first game?
CHRIS BOSH:   I played okay.   I mean, I don't think anybody would say I played very well.   I feel I could have given a lot more, and I'm going to fix that.   I made some mistakes that I shouldn't have made, and you know, that happens sometimes.   But we're going to have to correct all those errors and just really see where we could have been a lot better, and I know for me, I just have to be more aggressive and things will work out.

Q.   You talked about it being a feel‑out game.   What was your feeling of Game 1?
CHRIS BOSH:   Game 1 is always feel‑out games no matter what happens.   I mean, there's going to be a winner and a loser, but for the most part, that game is for really seeing what the other team does, getting a feel for them offensively and defensively, being on the road for the crowd, the rims, just the environment, and just seeing how everything is going to be.   So Game 2 is a totally different game.

Q.   Everybody keeps using the word resolve.   Erik used the word resolve a lot to describe this team.   What does that mean to you, and do you have it?
CHRIS BOSH:   He uses words all the time, but yes, we do.   He wouldn't use it if we didn't have it.   That's something that we have, but it's also something that you need in any championship situation.   We're going to have to have some resolve.   We're used to winning, and this is the challenge of the Finals, losing a game sometimes.   We know they're a good home team, they play well on their home floor, but we feel it's within our power to win and lose games. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT