NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v HEAT
June 6, 2012
Chris Bosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHRIS BOSH:   We've been working hard every day.   It was good to get back out there.   I feel good after all that.   
   
 Q.   Are there no extra lingering effects because of the injury?   
CHRIS BOSH:   No.   Everything is good.   I mean, there's going to be somejust regular soreness after the game, which I'm used to.   It's nothing major.   Everybody feels it after every game.   So I consider myself a lucky guy, and I'll be ready for tomorror.   
   
 Q.   Facing elimination, is the team with the expectations that go with the big three and all that, does the team feel any extra pressure because if you lose, the season is over?   
CHRIS BOSH:   Well, I kind of like pressure sometimes.   I think you really rise to the occasion when the pressure is there.   And I think that's what it's about.   Everybody is going to have to face that situation, and it's our turn right now.   
We just have to rise to the occasion.   But there's a little bit of extra added pressure, but that can sometimes be a good thing.   And I think it will be a great thing for us tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Would you like to start tomorrow?   Just go back to business as usual?   
CHRIS BOSH:   I just want to play.   It doesn't matter to me.   I think we feel confident in whoever we put out there.   And no matter what the rotation is and what the lineup, we're good enough to get the job done.   
   
 Q.   Do you think, with you having one game under your belt, that things will be a lot better tomorrow, the continuity, the adjustment period (Indiscernible)?  
CHRIS BOSH:   Yeah, I mean, it's going to be like that regardless, just because the situation we're in right now and what we need right now.   It's going to be better.   I'm fortunate to get one game under my belt before an elimination situation.   
As far as time is concerned, it's surprisingly pretty good yesterday.   Everything is all right.   As far as I'm concerned, I just prepare like I normally do, and it's another game.   
   
 Q.   Chris, how frustrating was it to be on the bench late in the fourth when it felt like you had a lot left in the tank?   
CHRIS BOSH:   It's not frustrating at all.   I know everybody likes to use the word "frustration" in everything involved in this game.   But we had the right guys in at the right time.   I can't win everything in my first game back.   
I felt like I had more to give.   But we went with our guys who have been getting the job done for the past two series.   So hopefully I'll be able to contribute a little bit more.   For the most part, we had our chances, and we came up short.   
   
 Q.   If "frustrating" is a bad word, is there a better word for it?   
CHRIS BOSH:   Just watching the game.   I just watch, man.   I'm just along for the ride.   I can control what I can control.   Just have fun doing it.   
   
 Q.   Is there a part of you that would like to see you go back to the group that had success in April, when you moved to five and Udonis started at four, if not starting as a group tomorrow, then being on the floor, those five players, you and the four others tomorrow?   
CHRIS BOSH:   Well, it's kind of a unique situation right now because that was April and now it's June, and we're in an elimination situation.   I don't think it's the right time to kind of try to tinker with things a lot.   
That gave us success in April.   That was April.   That was a while ago.   Things get better and better and tougher as the playoffs go on.   
So we just need to stick to our game plan that we're going to formulate for tomorrow and just play hard.   
   
 Q.   What is it with LeBron in Boston?   Is it just that they're a good team?   Or has he been kind of snake‑bit up there?   He was eliminated in Cleveland when he was up there.   He's had some tough times there.   What is it?   Do you know?   
CHRIS BOSH:   As opposed to‑‑ it's a team sport.   Guys have to realize it's a team sport.   It's not just one thing.   They can't throw LeBron in the pot and be like what is it with him?   He's had 40 points, and they got eliminated back in I think '08 or something?   
   
 Q.   '08.   
CHRIS BOSH:   Yeah.   It's a team sport.   We have to do this together.   He's going to do what he's supposed to do, and we're going to do what we're supposed to do.   We're going to do it together.   We live and die together.   You can't just single him out.   
People have to stop doing that.   It's a team sport.   If he performs, he's going to perform, and he's going to do his job.   
   
 Q.   Have you given any thought that if you guys do lose tomorrow, your experiment may be over and the big three might be broken up?   Has that entered your mind at all?   
CHRIS BOSH:   No, I only worry about the day at hand.   I'm not even worried about tomorrow right now.   I'm just worried about having a good day today.   You can't worry about those things.   Like I said, those are out of your control.   
We can't have all those other things cluttering our mind.   We need to go in and get Game 6.   Nothing else.  
   
 Q.   They're spending a lot of time on SportsCenter wondering why you didn't play more in the fourth.   Did you say anything to coach Spo to indicate that you weren't feeling 100% or you were aching a little bit or not moving the way you wanted to?   
CHRIS BOSH:   No, I didn't.   I just let him coach the game.   
   
 Q.   How does it feel defensively while you're out there?   
CHRIS BOSH:   It was good.   My timing is off a little bit.   I made some mistakes that I can definitely put in the back of my mind for tomorrow.   But for the most part, I was just trying to stay alert, be in the right spots.   
I'll improve for Game 6 and make sure that I don't give up some points like I did, because they're crucial.   I'll play the way I'm supposed to on defense and on offense and just be solid on both ends.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel you were further ahead on offense than defense last night, in terms of recovery?   
CHRIS BOSH:   No, I think it was even on both ends.   I'm a defensive‑first guy, so...   I made some mistakes out there, which is going to happen.   It's going to happen.   I'm not really too worried about it.   Look at the mistakes, see what I did wrong, and make sure I correct them.   
   
 Q.   Chris, how do you feel you are stamina‑wise right now?   
CHRIS BOSH:   Good.   I'm good to go.   There are always going to be challenges coming back after an injury, but I think, given the situation that we're in and it being the playoffs and everything, I think I'll find whatever I need to find in myself to have the stamina to succeed.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the ovation you got from the fans when you checked into the game yesterday?   
CHRIS BOSH:   It was awesome.   The ovation was great.   It just made me feel special and missed.   Just to be out so long and be away from the game was tough enough, to be there and not be able to do anything was tough enough.   But to see the support that all the fans gave me, it was great and it helped me go out there and just relax and play basketball.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT