NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v HEAT
June 5, 2012
Chris Bosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  Boston Celtics - 94
Miami Heat - 90

Q.   Chris, can you talk about the overall collective mood in the locker room.   Obviously since you've been around the team now for a couple of years.   Erik said there's still fight.   What's the feeling now knowing it's win two in a row or be done? 
CHRIS BOSH:   Well, you know, in situations like this, you can only focus on one game at a time, obviously.   And, you know, we know what we have to do.   It's pretty simple.   There's no reason really to dwell on it, think about it a lot.   We have to go to Boston and win.   We have to do whatever it takes to get that done.   We're not going to win there unless we do whatever it takes. 
So collectively we just have to be mentally strong, and focus on what we need to do to win Game 6. 

Q.   Chris, first thing, how did you feel physically in the game?   And did you feel that maybe you could have contributed in the fourth quarter after playing, I guess, 14 minutes up to that? 
CHRIS BOSH:   I mean, I feel good.   I definitely have more to give, and I'll be there.   I just tried to be a good teammate for the guys that were out there.   But as far as physically feeling, I felt good.   It was good to really be back out there.   And when the time comes again, I'll definitely be ready to play more than I played tonight. 

Q.   Chris, can you sort of walk us through how you felt emotionally just with everything you've been dealing with the last 24 to 48 hours, getting ready to play both on and off the court with what you guys have dealt with? 
CHRIS BOSH:   It's been some year for me, but basketball is kind of my sanctuary.   It's something that I can use to get away from everything and I enjoy playing the game.   So to be back out there, just to put my uniform on in the warmups and to be involved in the game in some kind of way physically, it was good for me.   It's good just to be able to do what I love. 
I was happy just to do that.   With everything going on, life happens.   So you just have to move forward and do as best as possible. 

Q.   Chris, you said you still had some more to give in the fourth quarter.   And Coach said he didn't think it would be fair to put you back in the game.   Was there a conversation at the end of the game? 
CHRIS BOSH:   No, I wouldn't expect him to have a conversation with me.   He has enough to deal with.   I'm just a competitor.   I was ready.   If he felt it wasn't fair, then that's great.   But I think we still had enough to win the game, no matter what happened. 
You know we're in this situation now, so hopefully next time in Game 6 when it comes to crunchtime I'll be out there with my guys. 

Q.   Chris, two things:   In that moment where Spo says "go in," do you even hear the ovation and how much did you appreciate that?   And secondly, just emotionally, from the collective, what do you expect the next 44 hours or whatever we are until tip‑off Thursday to be like for the group? 
CHRIS BOSH:   I mean, the second part, it is not going to be easy.   It's going to be an extremely difficult time, but that's what the playoffs are about.   In order to get to where we want to go, we're going to have to face huge challenges.   And I think we're in the biggest challenge of our lives right now, of our professional careers.   So we just have to overcome it.   And it's going to be very, very difficult, but that's how it's supposed to be. 
Before I checked in, yes, I did hear the fans, and just their love and support, it definitely picked me up and it made it a lot easier to go out there and do what I do.   It makes you feel special the way that they receive me and everything.   I was just happy to be back. 

Q.   Chris, when did you know for sure that you were going to play today?   And what were the last couple of days like leading up to getting the clearance to go ahead and play? 
CHRIS BOSH:   Just working hard, working as hard as I can.   Just testing it out every day, working on trying to get my conditioning back.   Getting as many shots up as I can, and doing the necessary treatments like I've been doing the past three weeks.   I kind of figured‑‑ I mean, once they gave me the diagnosis, I was thinking best‑case scenario, and this was the best‑case scenario.   So three weeks ago I was thinking three weeks.   That was my number.   No matter what anybody told me, I was thinking three weeks.   So three weeks passed, and of course I had to get cleared and everything, but I had to work hard enough to get to this point, and I'm here now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT