NBA FINALS: MAVERICKS v HEAT
June 9, 2011
Chris Bosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Miami Heat  103
  Dallas Mavericks 112 
   
  Q. Chris, can you talk about Dwyane's injury, how he was affected by it, and also the effect it had on the team.   
 CHRIS BOSH: I don't know. I'm not a doctor. You know what I'm saying? He was just out and had to get something tended to. We go along as planned and we play the game.   
  
  Q. Just talk about the time, that lengthy time when he was out and how you guys tried to respond without him.   
 CHRIS BOSH: Any time you have a situation like that with one of your guys out, you have to play your system, play like you're used to. I think Mike did a fantastic job of just coming out, being aggressive, making plays, staying solid on defense. There wasn't a huge discrepancy. It was back and forth pretty much for the whole time. He did a good job.   
  
  Q. Chris, what did Dallas do to sort of take you guys out of the pace that you like to play? The past three or four games have been in the 80s for the most part. This one seemed like a little bit of an aberration.   
 CHRIS BOSH: We didn't get off to a good start defensively. We gave up too many points in the paint, too many lay-ups, uncontested shots, you name it. That isn't our niche, that isn't what we do. And we're going to have to do a better job of initially starting the defense.   
 We saw what they're capable of. Some of the shots they hit were just some hit shots. That's going to happen sometimes. We cannot give them lay-ups.   
  
  Q. Chris, in the first half you had 13 points. In the second half it seemed like you disappeared on the offensive end a bit. Was it something they were doing that negated your abilities offensively, or was it just a question you not getting enough opportunities and touches?   
 CHRIS BOSH: I don't know. I don't know. I don't really notice all that stuff. I just play the game.   
  
  Q. Chris, does this loss hurt more because you guys let opportunities maybe go in Games 2 and 4?   
 CHRIS BOSH: I mean, every loss hurts. You know what I'm saying? We fought hard all season for home-court advantage. We're down 3-2. This is what we fought for home-court advantage for during the regular season. We protect home court, we win the series. So we have to keep that in mind. We're back at home now. We just have to make sure we take it one game at a time and take care of business and get off to a good start and really put their backs against the wall early.   
  
  Q. Chris, unchartered territory for you. Your first two-game losing streak since March. I'm sure you're looking forward to getting back home. What's going to be different when you get back to Miami?   
 CHRIS BOSH: I think just being comfortable being back at home. We've been out here for a week or so. It's always good to just get refreshed and, you know, just be somewhere where you're a little more comfortable. This is unchartered territory for us, but all year has been unchartered ever since we came together. So we're going to have to use all of those experiences that we've went through in this past year collectively to overcome this.   
  
  Q. Chris, you guys were such a dominant fourth-quarter team in the Boston and Chicago series, being able to put teams away in those final minutes. Where has that gone in this series?   
 CHRIS BOSH: I think if you look at it, this team has more offensive firepower than any other team that we've played. I mean, for the most part we've been doing a good job defensively, especially in the fourth quarter. We had a lapse today. And you know, it won't happen again. It can't happen again. I think we're to that point where they can't be comfortable. They can't get wide-open shots. They can't get lay-ups. They can't have guys more than Dirk having a good game.   
 So we're to that point. We're just going to have to execute when it's time.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about LeBron James' performance tonight.   
 CHRIS BOSH: Triple-double. We just didn't win the game.   
  
  Q. Do you think was he aggressive enough?   
 CHRIS BOSH: I mean, yeah. He shot 19 shots. Some of them were good looks. He had feet planted. Shot some shots he normally makes. This is a tough place to play. We expect to bounce back. We're at home. Those shots are going to fall and we're going to play much better. We're going to try and take this thing to seven games.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Chris.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT