NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 11, 2014
Chris Bosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Watching the film today, was it painful?   Was a lot learned?   What was that like over the last hour or so? 
CHRIS BOSH:   I mean, it's just disappointing to see the lack of effort and the lack of focus and execution that we had.   To be honest, we stopped trusting each other a little bit, at least that's my interpretation on offense and on defense.   Overall, our guys weren't doing our jobs.   We all weren't doing our jobs.   When you get to this level against a very good team like this, we pushed each other to the brink last year, it's disappointing to see the lack of effort.   We've got to do better.

Q.   Do you feel last night was just an avalanche that you guys couldn't stop? 
CHRIS BOSH:   No, it wasn't an avalanche.   We did it to ourselves.   From the get‑go, we're supposed to be the avalanche.   You know, we're supposed to have the momentum.   We were at home.   It seemed like they were playing a home game.   They just had a comfort level that they haven't had at all, I don't care, win or lose since coming here. 
I think it was the worst game of the season‑‑ probably the worst game we've played together, and we just took it on the chin.

Q.   Do you feel it was more of the offense or defense? 
CHRIS BOSH:   It was everything.   It was just a collective funk.   It was everything.

Q.   How do you get your confidence back after a game like that? 
CHRIS BOSH:   Just play the game.   We don't have to do anything different.   When we did something different and deviated from what we normally do, we got our ass kicked.   You know, we just have to trust each other.   We always say these things, trust each other, and just don't change anything.   Just do what we do.   Do with our energy, and just get the job done and compete, and that's it.

Q.   Is it physicality or where do you get back to where you were?   Where do you start? 
CHRIS BOSH:   It's not physicality, man.   We just played the Pacers and the Nets.   We're coming out of the Eastern Conference.   The Eastern Conference is more physical than the West, and everybody knows that.   It isn't physicality, it's just all mental right now.   We have to do a much better job as far as execution is concerned, making the extra passes.   The things that we talked about, we're not doing, and hopefully that will be the last bad game we play.

Q.   So what are you looking to do tomorrow?   How are you refocusing?
CHRIS BOSH:   Win, win the game.   You do it one possession at a time.   Trust yourself on both ends and to do your job.

Q.   How important do you feel a fast start and good rhythm will be to you guys in the beginning? 
CHRIS BOSH:   A good rhythm is important.   Fast start, I don't really care about fast starts.   I just want to play a good defense in the beginning, making sure we're moving the ball from side‑to‑side.   We didn't get many side‑to‑side possessions.   We held the ball a lot, had a lot of dribble isos, and sometimes it's going to work.   When we have a good mix of that, it's going to work sometimes, but not every time.   They built a rhythm for what we were doing on our lack of execution.   You know, they really flattened us out.

Q.   One number that's been tossed around a lot the last 24 hours is you had only 12 touches in the game compared to 39 in Game 2.   What led to that?   Do you need to get the ball more from teammates? 
CHRIS BOSH:   Well, I mean, it's side‑to‑side ball movement.   Everybody knows I don't get any play calls, and that's how it is.   That's how it's been since I've been here, and I'm very reliant on side‑to‑side ball movement.   That really does not necessarily mean I'm going to shoot it every time, but it doesn't give me a chance to read and react to the defense to get it in certain spots to kind of make them second guess what they're doing. 
My guys are running to the paint.   I show my palms, but, you know, it happens for a reason, I guess.   Hopefully moving forward we can just do a better job of moving the basketball where everybody can be involved to really be effective. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT