NBA FINALS: MAVERICKS v HEAT
June 6, 2011
Chris Bosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   CHRIS BOSH: In situations like that, you really see what you're made of. And you have to go and get it done anyway. 

 Q. Was your vision affected at all? 
 CHRIS BOSH: I don't think so. I wasn't thinking about my vision or anything. I was trying to play the best basketball possible. If I had an open shot, I had to knock it down and still make plays. I can't remember if I could see or not. 

 Q. Is that one eye that (Indiscernible). 
 CHRIS BOSH: We didn't have time for tests. I wasn't trying to do no tests. I was trying to win the game. 

 Q. Just on your own. 
 CHRIS BOSH: Like that. Yeah. Sometimes. Every time I did that, it was like, okay, that's stupid. 

 Q. How much do you think mentally it hurts that you guys have jumped to these big leads, put them behind the eight ball in all three games where they have that hole to dig out of? 
 CHRIS BOSH: I think mentally it's affected them in some way. This is a potent offensive team. They're a potent team, period. I don't think they're too worried about a lead. Just like us, they're trying to compete to win a game. We can't worry about the mental aspect of it. They're going to come out and they're going to fight because their backs are against the wall tomorrow. 
 Just being in that situation, it's a desperate situation. And they're going to play desperate. We have to anticipate that, and we have to be desperate at the same time, too. 

 Q. Why does your team feed on the turnovers? You get the turnovers and immediate transition buckets a lot of times, dunks. 
 CHRIS BOSH: Because we have the two fastest guys in the open court in the league. That always helps. Any time we force turnovers, that really fuels our team, our offense and our defense, and things go a little bit better for us.

 Q. Can you talk about Dwyane Wade's leadership. 
 CHRIS BOSH: He's a very passionate guy. Once he gets going, he's in the moment. He'll surprise you sometimes. He wants to win, and we all want to win at the same time. So anytime he's going to voice his opinion, he's right. He just wants to win, and he wants the best out of us. He demands it and we demand it out of each other. 

 Q. Is it easier said than done when he's in your face, or do you say, I know what you are saying or is there a moment, back off of me? 
 CHRIS BOSH: No, I've been getting that since I was ten years old. When I was nine, I started getting yelled at playing basketball. At the end of the day, it's all because we want the best out of each other. You can't get caught up in the moment. I just get caught up in what's going on and I listen to the message instead of how it's delivered. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT