NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v BULLS
May 25, 2011
Chris Bosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHRIS BOSH: I think both sides are feeling it a little bit after a battle like that last night. But I think all in all we feel good. We're feeling good. We're healthy as a team. You know, we're going to take care of our bodies so we can compete as best as we can tomorrow.   
  
  Q. You never got out of the first round, and now you're a victory away from making the Finals. What does that feel like?   
 CHRIS BOSH: It's a confusing feeling, really, because our goal is the championship. We're very close to it. But it's so far. There's so many things that have to happen in order for us to prepare -- to close out a team is the most difficult thing. There's so many other things that we have -- I'm always thinking about what's next. So there's more stress to deal with, and we have to get the job done.   
  
  Q. How do you unwind after a game like last night?   
 CHRIS BOSH: After the game?   
  
  Q. Yes. When you get home, you can't --  
 CHRIS BOSH: The adrenaline is still going just a little bit. I stay up and talk with my friends until we get sleepy and go to bed. Try to eat, you know.   
  
  Q. Do you try to check out the highlights?   
 CHRIS BOSH: I didn't have any, so... I'm joking. I usually don't watch anything. I just go home and try to get away from basketball. We'll talk about the game amongst ourselves and just the highs of the night. That's really it.   
  
  Q. How much energy did the home fans bring to you last night?   
 CHRIS BOSH: I mean, they're the most important thing for us, outside of this team, because they make it hard for the other team to come in here and win games. We need the fans desperately. And I think they know how important they are every time we step on the court.   
 They're making this a tuff place to win basketball games, and we have to do that.   
  
  Q. Chris, last night right after the game, you were (Indiscernible) you need to go up to Chicago and finish the series. What's it going to take?   
 CHRIS BOSH: Everything. Everything that we have. We have to throw everything in and the kitchen sink at those guys. They're going to be ready. Nobody ever wants to go home early. They've put in a season just like we have, so as a man, they're going to have pride. And as a team they're going to have pride. And we have to have the same thing.   
 Chicago is a tough place to play, so we have to be ready for it. We have to just go out there and take care of business.   
  
  Q. Speaking of pride, how much pride is it that you guys beat them three times in a row? They've never had that happen this season.   
 CHRIS BOSH: It's good. It's good. I think it speaks to how far we've come along as a team. I mean, that's a good team. Just to beat them once is not easy. Just to get them three times in a row and have them in this position, it's an accomplishment in itself.   
 But it's not good enough. So we have to keep going, and it's going to take more work in order to advance.   
  
  Q. Chris, how is the mindset of being around (Indiscernible) such a defensive mentality? How has that altered your approach on that side of the court and improved your defense?   
 CHRIS BOSH: I think we've all seen it. When you scout other teams, you put yourself in a better position to win ballgames. We pride ourselves on our defense. It's just the fact that LeBron and Dwyane are so defensive-minded, we all have to get on the same page and have that same hunger. (Indiscernible).  
  
  Q. Chris, is it difficult to be this close and not think about what next week might really feel like?   
 CHRIS BOSH: No, it's -- we're used to it. I'm used to it. Just the situations that we've had and the criticism that we've dealt with, nobody prematurely celebrates. Just go on to the next business, and given the series and the type of teams that we've played, there's no time to exhale. You have to continue to grind and battle every game.   
 That's why I say it's so far away. There's only a numbered amount of days left in the season, but it will be the longest ever.   
  
  Q. Chris, will you talk about the impact that LeBron has, outside of his own scoring. Because he is reading the game so well, setting you up, setting so many other guys up to get the offense you guys get to contribute to as well.   
 CHRIS BOSH: Well, I mean, he's a (Indiscernible) for one, he can see the floor. He can handle the ball as a point guard. His vision is spectacular. He's 6'8" and he's like 300 pounds and runs 3.3. He's one of the best athletes, but he's smart as well. He can see the court. He gets guys involved. He attacks the rim. And when he's aggressive, everybody comes, and that opens it up for everybody else. He has no hesitation in making everybody else better.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT