NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v BULLS
May 24, 2011
Chris Bosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q. The overtime you had a pump fake and a jumper on the left side, and that jumper from the top of the key off the inbounds. Both times it seemed like you were really calm and deliberate and took your time in those. Is that the product of having a series where the points have come easily? You haven't really had to struggle to find points. You seem like you're really comfortable on those plays. 
 CHRIS BOSH: It's not about comfort. Today it was they got in my space a little bit more. They did a very good job of doing that. But I mean, really the situations that we've been in the playoffs and during the regular season, later in the games there's no time to panic. You just have to trust yourself and trust the work that you've put in into the game. I've done that move thousands of times, and it was just reading and reacting and not getting too much ahead of myself. 

 Q. Chris, how much is defense in the end winning these games for you guys? 
 CHRIS BOSH: It is the reason. I think defense is the reason that we're here. Defense is the reason that we win every game. And defense is the reason that we have a chance, you know, at winning Game 5, playing Game 5. 
 I mean, ever since we talked about it when we had training camp on that army base, defense is what we talked about and hard work is what we talked about. We just kept going and we kept pushing each other and pushing each other, and we have to continue to do that. 

 Q. Chris, it seemed when you guys went out for the overtime, it seemed like you, LeBron and Dwyane, you were smiling, you seemed relaxed. Again, is that about you've been through a lot of these situations this year, but can you share anything you guys were talking about before the overtime? It seemed like you guys were having a good time before you even started getting out there. 
 CHRIS BOSH: You should have a good time playing basketball. This is why you play the game. We knew it wasn't going to be easy beating this team. Any time we play this team it's not going to be easy. We felt that we made a lot of mistakes in the first half, and really some points during the second half. And we knew that we kind of let one get away, but we were right where we wanted to be. We just had to keep playing. 
 We had been in that situation before down in Boston, and we just really had to use our experience in that situation to overcome it. 

 Q. Chris, Dwyane said in the encore interview on TV that there were guys in the huddle continually reminding him, "stay in it, stay in it, you'll make a play." What were those moments like? What were those scenes like? 
 CHRIS BOSH: It was good, intense. Just intense moments. I'm proud of Dwyane, the way he handled himself. I knew it was not easy. He missed a lot of shots he usually makes. You can tell his rhythm was kind of off tonight. 
 But he made huge plays down the stretch. Once he hit a step-back jumper, he started to get into it. He made huge defensive plays, got rebounds, got blocked shots, and he was the Dwyane Wade we need him to be. 
 I love the situations like that to where we're tested and we have to overcome something, because it's not easy staying in the game when you're having a bad one. 

 Q. Chris, just talk about the challenges of trying to close out a team in a Game 5 on the road like you guys will try to do on Thursday. 
 CHRIS BOSH: It's very challenging. This is a team with the best record in the league. They're the number one overall seed. And they have a tough building to play in. They're going to come out with a lot of energy, like they did today. 
 But we have to focus on what we do. We've been in situations like that before. So it's business as usual, and we have to execute when it's time to execute and play defense like we've been doing and just play the game. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Chris. 
 CHRIS BOSH: Cool. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT