NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v BULLS
May 21, 2011
Chris Bosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You guys have a home-court winning streak, and they haven't lost two games in a row. 
 CHRIS BOSH: We're not worried about it. We just know we have to defend our home court and we have to go out there and execute. 
 We're in front of our fans. You know we have had success here. You know that's all that matters to us. We're trying to get a firm hold and control of this series. You know, it's up for grabs right now. We have a small advantage of being at home. But we have to take the opportunity and do it. 

 Q. Talk about LeBron's versatility. He plays the most minutes, but you guys have him doing so many different things. 
 CHRIS BOSH: I mean, LeBron can. He can simply play damn near every position on the court, and he can guard every position. We know that for a fact. He can rebound, he can pass, he can shoot, and he can do everything. 
 We have to utilize his talent, because there's not too many players like that. And that's what makes him so special. You know, he makes everybody on this team better. When he's on the top of his game, I think we're a very good team. 
 He's really elevated his play in the playoffs. He's responded well to everything. 

 Q. Chris, we saw two different faces of Miami during those first two games. What was the problem with the first game? 
 CHRIS BOSH: Man, I'm not even worried about the first game. We're so far from that. You know, we just made mistakes. We just made a lot of mistakes that we shouldn't have made, pretty much. We know we're a better team than that. We know we hold a better performance to ourselves. We came out Game 2 focused, ready, and we're going to do the same thing in Game 3. We just have to have the right disposition and the right frame of mind going into the game. 

 Q. Chris, with Udonis' addition, does that change things for you? 
 CHRIS BOSH: It's pretty much the same. It's just talking to him a little bit more about where to be on spots on the court sometimes, because some things are still fresh for him. But other than that, it's the same thing. Same spots, same rotations and getting the ball in the same places. 

 Q. How do you think his return will be received tomorrow in the arena? 
 CHRIS BOSH: You know, he hasn't played a home game yet, has he? I always envisioned him coming back at home and the crowd going crazy. He always played on road games. Just the performance he had in the last game and the fact that he's decent enough to play in basketball games and play at home, I think it will give us a little bit of an emotional edge tomorrow. 
 
 Q. How has this series shown the difference between the Eastern Conference and Western Conference basketball? 
 CHRIS BOSH: There's not going to be that many 100-point games. The Western Conference, those guys they have so much firepower on their team. They focus on scoring the basketball. It's the other way around with us. I think we're -- both teams we do have scoring talent, but it's just two different philosophies. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT