NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v BULLS
May 20, 2011
Chris Bosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How does it feel to be back home? 
 CHRIS BOSH: Awesome. It always feels good to be back home. We were there for a while, but it feels good to be home with home court advantage. I think that's the most important thing. We wanted to get both games, but we got one of them. And now we have to defend our home court. 

 Q. How would you evaluate the lineup when you and UD are out there playing together? How does that help you guys? 
 CHRIS BOSH: Well, it's all pretty much the same. It's just the same spots, just getting to the same spacing on the court. UD has been in this system for a while. He's been sitting back and watching. So it's just a matter of him getting his legs under him so he can be in the right spots. Other than that, he's going to read and react and make the right plays. 

 Q. Do you feel comfortable in that role so far? 
 CHRIS BOSH: Yeah, I've been in that role for the whole season. We have had success with it. I'm sure we'll have a heavy dose of that lineup, and really a heavy dose of me playing the five like it has been for the past three months. 

 Q. What do you think UD's performance means, not just for that game, but moving forward in this quest to get a ring? 
 CHRIS BOSH: I mean, it just shows what kind of series it's going to be and what it's going to take to accomplish our goals. Just the fact that he was mentally tough to put his foot behind him and go out there and compete. He got us second-chance points and he finished at the rim. That's what it's going to -- it's going to take that kind of hard work and dedication and scrappiness to get things done. 

 Q. Chris, is that as physical a fourth quarter as you've ever played in any game? 
 CHRIS BOSH: You know, I don't know. I'm kind of -- I don't know how it feels anymore. It's just all the same to me. It's just trying to knock each other out and scrambles for the ball for the whole game. 
 Fourth quarter is going to be like that. But you're thinking about so many other things, like your assignments and scoring and taking care of the basketball, that you don't have time to think about anything else. 

 Q. Because of the fact of the physical nature of the other series, or because of the days off --
 CHRIS BOSH: Well, we have had some great build-ups up to this point. It was a physical series with Philly, very physical with Boston and very physical with Chicago. With those days rest, it's really nice. We have chances to take care of our bodies. But we can't let them be the dictators of how the tempo is going to go in our building. We have to remember how we felt after sitting on that for two days. 
 
 Q. They say defense wins championships. It seems like whoever wins this Eastern Conference championship, it's going to come down to that. 
 CHRIS BOSH: Well, both Chicago and ourselves, we're -- we pretty much have the same defensive philosophies in the build-up. We're going to have a defense-first mentality and we're going to try to get good shots in. This is a defensive series. There's always going to be schemes how to stop them, not how to score. 
 It's the difference. Defense wins championships. We've been talking about defense since training camp. Hopefully it will turn to something good. 








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT