NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v BULLS
May 15, 2011
Chris Bosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q. Chris, in all four games against Chicago this year, they've bested the Heat on the rebounds. And tonight was significant. Especially their offensive rebounds. How did it feel out there for you guys? 
 CHRIS BOSH: Well, I mean, we have to do a better job of competing on the boards. I think that's where this series is going to be won. They won all four games they played against us. They've outrebounded them all. 
 I think that that's the issue for us and the key to the series for both teams. 

 Q. Chris, you had a really big game tonight, but LeBron and Wade were really quiet. Was that by design or was that because the Bulls were shutting them off and you had to take over? 
 CHRIS BOSH: With Dwyane and LeBron, they're going to create a lot of attention. This is a good defensive team. They're really going to challenge them by really loading the strong side when they have isos, when they have the ball, they're going to double them in the post. You know, they're going to make them distribute at least early on. 
 We have to look at where we fell short I think as a team for Game 1 and come back with a better approach. 

 Q. Chris, can you talk about when Derrick Rose drives the lane, obviously a lot of big guys have to come off him. Their big guys that get free, and the challenge that poses you and your position? 
 CHRIS BOSH: I mean, it's extremely tough. We can't leave our guards out there on the island. We have to give them help. Especially with a quick and fast guard like Derrick. You know, that's what we've been doing all year. We have to help each other and everybody has to be on a string. So we're going to have to do a better job of helping. But getting the rebounds as well. 19 offensive rebounds, you know, that's unacceptable for us. If we're serious about winning, we have to change that. 

 Q. Chris, a lot of comparisons were made between Boston's defensive style and Chicago's. And your team improved throughout the course of the last series. What has turned out to be the difference in facing this defensive team versus the last one? 
 CHRIS BOSH: I mean, I don't know. It's all the same. Once you get up with a very, very good defensive teams, there's not much that's going to be different. Guys have different schemes and they play ball different ways. But it's all the same at the end of the day. We just have to dissect the game and, you know, we made a lot of mistakes. We have the chance to, like I said before, look at those mistakes and really see where we can improve for Game 2. 

 Q. Chris, Craig Sager said on the air and I talked to him after as well, that you told him you felt disrespected that Carlos Boozer said after the Atlanta game that Miami has two great players. 
 CHRIS BOSH: I didn't say that, no. 

 Q. You didn't say that to Craig? 
 CHRIS BOSH: If you don't see a quote or hear it coming from me, I didn't say it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT