NBA SEASON GAME: HEAT v CELTICS
October 26, 2010
Chris Bosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







HEAT  – 80
  CELTICS  – 88

 Q. How do you explain that nine-point first quarter?
 CHRIS BOSH: We just missed shots. Sometimes they go in, sometimes they don't. They gave us tough defensive stances. We were open. You know, I know I missed a lot of shots, too, but it doesn't really matter about the first quarter. It's a collective effort, and we fought back, but we came up a little short. 

 Q. Did you expect anything like this, to come out like that after not playing together in the preseason, or did you think you would --
 CHRIS BOSH: Say it again.

 Q. Did you expect a first half like that, missing shots, nine points, after not playing together in the preseason?
 CHRIS BOSH: I mean, I don't have many expectations; I just go in and do my job. You know, we try to enforce our will. If we miss shots, we have to readjust what we're doing. You know, that's just a part of the game. You're not going to come in and shoot it like you want to every night, but I think we did a decent job on defense. 
 Like I said, we made a couple runs, and you know, who knows how the game goes if we make a couple of lay-ups and even a couple of missed 15-, 18-footers that we usually hit. I mean, it's a part of the game. We just have to keep playing.  
 Q. Your coach mentioned expectations and pressure. He said he thought you guys were a little nervous in the beginning. Were you aware of any of that? 
 CHRIS BOSH: Well, I mean, we know what's going on. We know that a lot of people are watching. We know a lot of people are really putting us under the microscope. We know that. I think it's evident. You know, you turn on the TV, you see what's going on, you see what people are talking about. I mean, that's a part of the game. That's what it is. 
 But we knew it was going to be like that. Dealing with it is another thing. But at the end of the day, it's going to be here, it's not going everywhere. We just have to settle down, and we just have to play. I think this whole game kind of -- we just didn't play the way we're capable of because we were a little bit reserved. But sometimes you just have to get your nerves out and just play ball afterwards. We have a game tomorrow night, and we just have to put this behind us and try to capitalize more. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 CHRIS BOSH: It doesn't matter. All I care about is the win. At the end of the day, I've averaged a lot of points and nobody really cared. So I'm not really caught up in point average because when I was (scoring), it didn't matter. You know, I had my open looks, I missed them. I usually make them. I'm not going to let that discourage me from what I'm going to try to do. I'm going to keep shooting the ball. I'm going to try to keep getting to the free-throw line and try to be the best teammate I can. Now, if we have lapses on defense and stuff like that and I'm responsible for that, I'll take more of a stance on myself with that. I'll be more upset. 

 Q. It seemed like you guys really made a concerted effort to go to you in the post early on. Did it surprise you at all the way Kevin was moving out there compared to last year defensively?
 CHRIS BOSH: I mean, he's pretty much the same guy. I really don't look at how he's moving or what he's doing. I mean, I just take it -- I treat him with the same respect, former Defensive Player of the Year, he can shoot the ball, and he has moves in the post. So I'm really not concerned about his legs or how he feels or what's going on. He's a player, he's Kevin Garnett, and I prepare the same way I always do. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT