NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 7, 2014
Chris Bosh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Does it make any difference whether you win or lose, having more than one day off, prefer one way or the other? 
    CHRIS BOSH:   You know, for some reason it always works out that we always lose the game before a two‑day rest and then kind of really just gets us going.   I would rather play the game today, but I guess it's punishment, you have to wait a little bit longer. 
    We have to really take it as just taking some time to get‑‑ to really get some game plan, more game plan in, make sure we work our game and let our bodies rest and recuperate and get ready for Game 2. 

Q.   Do you tend to overthink when you did right and wrong? 
    CHRIS BOSH:   Sometimes.   But we've been in this position many times before, so he we know how to handle it.   You have to kind of really train your brain to just take everything one thing at a time, one meal at a time and one practice at a time.   It's difficult, but that's why it's difficult in The Finals to win it. 

Q.   You guys have been so good at cleaning things up in these games after a loss.   What are you looking at that need to be cleaned up? 
    CHRIS BOSH:   We're looking at our defensive mistake.   We looked at it a little bit yesterday.   Coach didn't want to get too much into it, but mainly on defense and on offense the way they flattened us out, things we could have done better, make simpler passes, simple cuts that would have opened up the floor a little bit for us, and we could have gotten into our game.   Especially those last three and a half minutes, we could have done a much better job.   We look at those and try to capitalize and fix those mistakes for Game 2. 

Q.   Is this beneficial, Chris, a quiet, calm day, not too much work? 
    CHRIS BOSH:   Yesterday? 

Q.   Yeah, as far as basketball work. 
    CHRIS BOSH:   Yeah, it's about that sometimes.   You have to get away and push the reset button. 
    I think yesterday watching it was enough.   We can process the information when we go to sleep, all day, whenever and then come back today and really zone in on the specifics and really get into practice.   And, you know, we don't have to do much, but we have to get on the same page to make sure everybody knows what's going on.   And, you know, make sure our game plan is solid to get a win. 

Q.   Can you put your finger on why you guys have been so good after losses on the road in the playoffs? 
    CHRIS BOSH:   No, nothing out of the ordinary.   I think it's extra motivation and usually‑‑ especially right now in our Game 1 loss, our backs are against the wall now.   There is not much room for error.   We have to make sure we do a very good job and we've run out of excuses.   I think this team, when we are faced with those situations, being in this so many times before, it brings out the best in us. 
    I'm looking forward to playing tomorrow and getting everybody's best game.   




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT