AL DIVISION SERIES: RANGERS v YANKEES
October 6, 1999
Don Zimmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JAY STENHOUSE: Can you recap the events of last night when you got hit with the ball?
DON ZIMMER: One thing, it had nothing to do with winning and losing. I heard that
enough this morning. I saw the ball coming at me. What I did was turn my head, when the
ball hit me, I didn't know whether it hit me up in the head, whether it hit me in the
cheek bone, I didn't really know. When I woke up this morning, I knew where it hit me the
hardest. (Laughter.) Believe it or not, right here on my neck. I guess when I turned that
way, the ball hit my neck and went up and cut my ear a little bit. I think it scared me
more than it really, you know -- there was really not too much to it. I got a little
swelling. I'm a little stiff from here to here. But besides that, I'm all right.

Q. Don, Jeter came over and gave you, I guess, a picture that was taken of you on the
bench with the ice pack. What was that all about?

DON ZIMMER: Well, you know, most of our hitters, when they think the umpire's missing
pitches, they'll go up to Charlie, who takes our camera work, and they'll come back and
show it to Joe where the ball's that far outside and they called it a strike. That goes on
pretty regularly during our ballclub. Probably other clubs, too, but I see Jeter coming
out with that same sheet and I heard him say to Joe, "Take a look at this." I'm
thinking maybe it's a pitch that far outside they called a strike on him. When I look
down, it's this face with the ice pack on it. (Laughter.) Leave it up to Jeter, he'll do
something.

Q. Was that the scariest moment you've experienced with a foul ball flying into a
dugout in your career?

DON ZIMMER: Oh, yeah. I would say so. First of all, there's a lot of guys that sit in
the dugout and they're not paying attention. As many times as I've been hit in the head, I
do pay attention. And if I hadn't been paying attention, the ball might have hit me solid
and I could have been hurt. When I came back on the bench -- did you ever look at Joe
Torre's hands? He's got hands like that. I said Joe, how come you didn't take one of them
meat hooks of yours and catch the ball. He said I didn't see it. Luckily, I saw it or I
could have been hurt.

Q. Did you feel it was important once you got in the clubhouse and realized it wasn't
that serious, it was important for you to get back out on the bench to show the team you
were okay?

DON ZIMMER: Well, number one, my wife, where she's sitting, she didn't know who got
hit. She knew something happened in the dugout, and Joe Torre's wife, who could see into
our dugout where she was sitting, went up and told my wife that it was me. So by that
time, Mr. Steinbrenner, his son, the son-in-law, the two doctors, they were all in there,
and the trainer said -- Donahue said, "Your wife is out in the hall, do you want to
bring her in?" I said," What? " I don't believe in that. I said," Tell
her to go on up, sit in the stands and have a hot dog and I'll see her after the
game." That's when they slowed up the bleeding of my ear. Where else am I going to go
but back to the bench?

Q. How do you feel about the screens they put in front of the dugouts?

DON ZIMMER: Well, George said last night in the trainer's room that he was somewhere
along the line maybe for next year -- he was going to put up -- what do they call it,
Plexiglass, up high where that couldn't happen. I know a few years ago in spring training,
somebody almost got killed with a line drive, I can't think of who it was. But it was in
spring training where it can be very dangerous. Again, if I'm sitting over here talking to
you and not paying attention, you don't know what might happen.

Q. Don, did you feel the emotions that the team had toward you and Joe and how scared
they were? I mean they all looked like they were really shaken up. Does that tell you
something about how they feel about you?

DON ZIMMER: Well, at the time it happened, I had no idea, I just -- I said, "Oh,
my, here I go again." I didn't know whether it was my head, my cheek bone. I didn't
know what it was. afterwards, somebody's telling me Knoblauch, he had his head down and
Joe I guess was disturbed, but I didn't know any of that. But I think not because it's Don
Zimmer got hit in the head, I think anybody that would have had a foul tip like I got last
night, I think everybody would have felt the same about anybody on this club.

Q. Zim, not about managing, but Andy's struggles this year, Joe kept his faith in Andy
that he was going to break out of that and be okay. What did you see there in Andy during
that period?

DON ZIMMER: Well, first of all, I think we can talk about the whole pitching staff. I
mean, unless I'm wrong, going into this season, leaving Florida, I think just about
everybody in baseball thought we had the top best starters, six best starters in baseball.
I have said all along to myself, to maybe some of my close friends, that I don't think
this ballclub has played as well as I think they can play. I mean I can't remember playing
ten straight days this whole year where you got -- that would be two starts a piece for
five pitchers, I can't remember that happening, where we had ten good outings from our
pitchers. We got good pitchers, and I will say this: I hope that I'm going to be right by
saying we're still going to be better, and this would be one heck of a time for the
pitchers to pitch like El Duque did last night.

Q. Zim, have you already decided that you want to come back next year?

DON ZIMMER: Well, I'm in there last night and they're fixing my ear, I got the ice pack
on my face, George is standing here, Hal is standing here, his son-in-law is standing
here, I said, "Well, maybe I'll clear this up a little bit right now." I said,
"Boy, I've had a tough summer." I said, "I think I'll go another four or
five years and then call it quits." (Laughter.) I was trying to throw George a little
hint, you know, I'll maybe come back.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT