U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2008
Jack Peter
Carol Semple Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







FULLAUDIOINTERVIEW  
RHONDA GLENN: We'd like to welcome you to a special presentation  
in conjunction with the World Golf Hall of Fame. And we have on  
the dais with us Jack Peter, who is the Senior Vice-President and  
Chief Operating Officer of the World Golf Hall of Fame, who has some  
announcements to make. Jack? 
 JACK PETER: Thank you, Rhonda. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon and welcome to our second inductee announcements in 2008.
  
I'd like to take just a second and thank the USGA, David Fay and Chris  
Wightman in particular and their staff for allowing us the platform  
today. We were with this group at Oakmont last year and it's a  
real privilege for me personally and it's a great opportunity for the  
Hall of Fame to get in front of the national media. So thank you  
all for being here today.
 I  
also want to wish you a great week. I'm not going to be here for  
the weekend, but if it's anything like a couple of weeks ago, I'm  
going to be riveted to the television and will be watching it from  
start to finish.
  
We're here today to make announcement for four individuals who will  
become part of the 2008 class of inductees. One of whom is with  
us today and will be introduced in just a minute.
  
The Hall of Fame Induction Ceremony is scheduled for Monday, November  
10th at the World Golf Hall of Fame in Saint Augustine, Florida.  
And it will air on The Golf Channel on a taped delay basis that  
evening. We'll have one more final announcement concerning the  
class of 2008 later this summer, so stay tuned.
  
Without further adieu, first, I'd like to announce that Craig Wood has  
been elected on the PGA TOUR ballot with 65 percent of the vote. 
  
Craig, as many of you know won the 1941 U.S. Open. The 1941  
Masters, in addition to claiming 21 PGA TOUR titles throughout his  
career.
  
The full results of the Tour ballots and the International ballot can  
be found on the press release which will be distributed at the end of  
this announcement.
  
Next Denny Shute, winner of 15 PGA TOUR victories, including 3 major  
championships, the 1933 Open Championship, the '36 and '37 PGA  
Championships, has been selected for induction through the Veterans  
Category.
  
Herbert Warren Wind, who I know is near and dear to you, in the  
Lifetime Achievement Category this year.
  
He's considered by many to be the foremost American golf writer.  
He wrote for the New Yorker and Sports Illustrated, covering golf and  
other subjects for almost 40 years and we couldn't be happier for the  
Wind family.
  
Each of these individuals will be honored posthumously at the ceremony  
and we look forward to getting to know their families and friends over  
the next several months. It promises to be a great evening.
  
Now, for a very special inductee announcement. Our next inductee  
is the -- what we think is the personification, really, of amateur  
golf. She's competed in over 100 USGA championships, including  
32 U.S. Women's Opens. She's earned 7 USGA titles and Women's  
Amateur and British Lady's Open Amateur Event. She's played on a  
record 12 USA Curtis Cup teams and captained the victorious 2006 and  
2008 teams.
  
I've got to tell you, it didn't take us very long -- we didn't have to  
have too many meetings to make sure this is the place we made this  
announcement at the U.S. Women's Open Championship this week. 
  
Ladies and gentlemen, it gives me great pleasure to introduce and  
welcome Lifetime Achievement and Inductee Carol Semple Thompson.
 Well, obviously we know that she's being escorted by her good friend, David Fay, the Executive Director of the USGA and the Chairman of the World Golf Foundation.
  
Carol, I just want to say on behalf of the 120 current Hall of Fame  
members, our board of directors, our staff, and over 300 volunteers,  
welcome to the Hall of Fame family. 
  
CAROL SEMPLE THOMPSON: Thank you. 
 JACK PETER: Before we totally grant you the microphone. We want to have David say a few things, and get his thoughts maybe on you and the other inductees.
 DAVID FAY: Well, first of all, congratulations. It's a most worthy award. I would call Carol the First Lady of Women's Amateur Golf. Now, I paused and I was thinking should it really be the first lady of the United States Women's Amateur Golf.
  
But for those of you who have seen her in action in Curtis Cup matches  
and the way she relates to the GB&I team, those of you who have  
seen her play in World Amateur Team Championships and the way that the  
women of the world relate to her, there's no question, you don't need  
to have to the clarifier "United States". She is the  
First Lady of Women's Amateur Golf.
  
But it's more than just that. It's not just as a player, not  
just as an ambassador. But what she does for the USGA. She  
was on the USGA Executive Committee. She was the Chair of the  
Museum Committee when we really got the thing going in a forward  
manner. 
 I  
remember her escorting the late Alan Shepard around when he came to  
check out his club that he struck on the moon. And he was  
saying, "I've read all about you. How many years have you  
been playing this game at the top level?" 
  
And that's the amazing thing. When you come to the Women's Open  
each year you see these players out there, and they're not thinking of  
Carol as some elder icon, they're saying, "I remember playing  
with her", and playing in the Amateur and playing in the Open and  
just as a competitor.
  
But I did find it very funny that the USGA Executive Committee in its  
infinite wisdom assigned a Committee Chair, the Handicap Committee, to  
you. I think it was Judy Bell who did it.
  
Carol, you are a treat to the game of golf. And you honor the  
game so well. I'm just delighted to be present here when the  
announcement is made. You really have earned it. You are a  
special, special person. 
 CAROL SEMPLE THOMPSON: Well, thank you David, that was a nice, wonderful introduction. I'm very flattered by everything that you said.
  
I'm also thrilled to be one of the top amateur players around today,  
maybe one of the older ones. But it's amazing that the Hall of  
Fame would choose to honor me for that. I'm just -- I'm humbled  
by the whole idea of it. 
 I  
certainly do not feel worthy of this, but at the same time I'm loving  
every minute of it. How could I not? I went to the  
induction several years ago and matched Marlene Streit be inducted in  
November of, I think three years ago, maybe. And it was very  
impressive. A wonderful, wonderful thing. 
  
I'm also thrilled this is happening while my mother is still here to  
be able to experience it. I know my father is up there somewhere  
experiencing it. He would never believe this in a million  
years.
  
It's tremendous. I want to say thank you to my family and to all  
the people who have helped me get through the world of golf to this  
point. It's just been a wonderful time. I've been blessed  
through my life, and I can't thank the Hall of Fame, the Committee,  
enough, for granting me this honor. Thank you. 
  
RHONDA GLENN: We will now open the floor to questions. 
 
  
Q. It's probably impossible for you to say so, what is it about  
golf that you're as passionate today after this many years, why? 
 CAROL SEMPLE THOMPSON: Why am I so passionate about golf? I think I learned it as a child. I learned how important it was to be honest, to be talented, to be forward thinking and positive thinking. It was just all the good things that I learned from the game that make it so important to me, even today.
 I  
think all those things have stood me in very good stead through my  
life. And really that's what golf is to me. 
 
  
Q. Two things. One, I want to know how you explain to Jack  
Nicklaus how you weren't going to be at Memorial this year. And  
two, tell me what you think is your No. 1 achievement. Since  
they've rattled off so many of them, you must have one that you  
believe is your No. 1?
 CAROL SEMPLE THOMPSON: You're asking how I told Jack I was not going to be at the Memorial? Well, I did write a note to Jack and Barbara several months ago. I thanked them I think for a Christmas present they sent to the Captain's Club people. And I mentioned that I wouldn't be there.
  
And then the day before I left for Scotland I had an e-mail from Jack  
saying, "Oh, I just didn't realize that this was happening and  
good luck." So Jack, I have great respect for Jack.  
He's on top of a lot of things in the world of golf. He was also  
very understanding that I missed The Memorial in favor of the Curtis  
Cup match in St. Andrews.
  
I've forgotten the second part of the question?
 
  
Q. Achievement. 
 CAROL SEMPLE THOMPSON: My most fond achievement? Well, someone asked me what my favorite shot was of my whole career. And I had to say that the putt that I made in the Curtis Cup match in Pittsburg in 2002, my last Curtis Cup match. It was a miracle putt. It was at least a hundred feet long. And it broke about 18 feet from right-to-left and it was downhill. But it did go in the hole and it meant that I won the match -- won my individual match and I won a point to halve the Curtis Cup match. And then some of my teammates came in behind and we won the match handily.
  
But one of my favorite stories about that particular putt was that one  
of the British tabloids came out with a headline the next day and  
said, "Old dog does the trick." So that would be one  
of my highlights?
 
  
Q. But is it the highlight?
 CAROL SEMPLE THOMPSON: That would be my one shot highlight.
 I  
think my other highlight, highlight, would be winning the U.S. Women's  
Amateur in 1973 when my father was Vice-President of the United States  
Golf Association. My mother was very ill in the hospital, could  
not come to the finals. My father got there. 
  
And after I won, at the presentation, the President of the USGA, Mr.  
Lynford Lardner, stepped aside and my father presented the trophy to  
me. So that's definitely a highlight. 
  
RHONDA GLENN: Carol, from me, congratulations. Very proud  
of you. Thrilled to have played with you at times. And  
Jack, we'll turn it back to you. 
 JACK PETER: Rhonda, thank you. I do want to take a minute and recognize a very special Hall of Fame member who's in the crowd with us. Judy Bell. Thank you for being here, Judy. It's always a pleasure to see you.
  
Again, thank you ladies and gentlemen, for being with us this  
afternoon. We have one announcement left in the summer.  
Stay tuned. If I don't see you before, I expect to see all of  
you November 10th in Saint Augustine, Florida. Thank you. 
 End of FastScripts 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT