ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 30, 2009
DeAndre McDaniel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   LINDSEY ROGERS: Now we are joined by DeAndre McDaniel, a junior safety from Clemson. DeAndre, welcome, and thank you for joining us today. 
 DeANDRE McDANIEL: Hello.
 LINDSEY ROGERS: McDaniel leads the ACC and is tied for second nationally with eight interceptions this season. We'll now open the line for questions. 

 Q. DeAndre, can you please tell me what the benefits are to seeing Georgia Tech's offense for a second time now this season? 
 DeANDRE McDANIEL: I mean, I just think we'll be more prepared for it. I mean, don't look like too much things have changed since the first time we played them, and I mean, second half we played them pretty good. I mean, first half they got a few big plays on us, so we're just looking forward to stopping them this time. 

 Q. Obviously Georgia Tech has an unusual offense that you don't see every week. Describe how you go about preparing for them and what are the most important things you have to do during the game to keep things stable and not have them burn you. 
 DeANDRE McDANIEL: I mean, basically just get our scout team ready and make sure they're giving us a good look and just staying focused, making sure we're doing our job. With that kind of offense that they run, you've got to make sure you're doing your job or they can score pretty easily on you. We're just going to try to stay focused and make sure everybody is on the same track. 

 Q. A lot of the players I've talked to have talked about the difference between Dabo and the previous staff was that he's really gotten you guys to believe. But I was looking for somebody to help explain exactly how he's been able to do that. 
 DeANDRE McDANIEL: I mean, he got us more focused. He got us bonding more better as a team. I mean, we're practicing faster, a lot harder, and he's just a great coach. He speaks to us positively, and he's just keeping our head where we're supposed to be at. I don't think too many coaches is better than him at that. That's one thing he's doing is helping us believe. 

 Q. Can you tell me, I guess you and Clemson and Georgia Tech are both sort of in the same boat coming off a loss in a rivalry game. What's the mindset there around Clemson? How tough is it to get that focus back after the disappointment of last Saturday?
 DeANDRE McDANIEL: I mean, it ain't going to be pretty hard to get our focus back. Our coaches do a good job of that. We lost like our first few, and we was down before. We know how to bounce back off adversity. It ain't going to be hard for us to come back and go into another big game prepared. 

 Q. What did it mean to you to wear 17 for the Wake Forest game? 
 DeANDRE McDANIEL: I mean, it meant a lot. I mean, Stanley Hunter can't play no more, and it was basically just dedicated to him. I mean, everybody who's been wearing the jersey is basically just dedicating their game to him because I know it's kind of hard for him knowing that he can't play with the team no more, and he can't take any snaps for this team. Everybody really just wanted to dedicate it to him and make sure we're playing our heart out when we've got that 17 on.

 Q. What's he been like at practice, though? I know he's kind of a student coach this season. 
 DeANDRE McDANIEL: I mean, he talked to us. I mean, he's just mainly helping just like a GA. He's just trying to keep us focused and everything. But I mean, he's closest to us and he tries to keep us motivated and talk to him from his point, like wishing he was out there. Everybody feels where he's coming from; don't nobody want to be in that position. But, I mean, he's there, and he's being strong about it. 

 Q. Coach Paul Johnson over at Georgia Tech has said a lot that the defensive line there is probably the best that they've faced all year and is probably a really underrated line as a whole. Just kind of talk to me about the line itself and what makes those guys so good, and why are they such a big challenge?
 DeANDRE McDANIEL: I mean, our D-tackles mainly, those two guys are real big, and they're very coachable. They both want to learn the game. They work real hard to be the best, and both of them want to be the best, so that's what makes them so good. I mean, our D-ends, their names speak for themselves. I mean, Ricky Sapp and Da'Quan, those two guys are just great. Both of them are just freaks. They want to be the best at what they do, also. I mean, that front four is just -- they're all coachable and want to be the best basically. 
 LINDSEY ROGERS: DeAndre, thank you so much for joining us today. Best of luck to you at Clemson. 
 DeANDRE McDANIEL: Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT