PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 26, 2016
Rich Berberian, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BOB DENNEY: Good afternoon, I'm Bob Denny, the PGA historian and it's a pleasure to have join us today the reigning PGA Professional Champion, Rich Berberian, Junior of Derry, New Hampshire, who is the assistant professional at Windham Country Club, and Rich becomes the second-youngest in history to win our PGA Professional Championship.  Did so in June at Turning Stone Casino in Verona, New York.
That was just 27 days ago, Rich, and life's been sort of a rush, I'm sure, for you.  Can you sort of speak about those 27 days and getting ready for your very first PGA Championship?
RICH BERBERIAN, JR.: It's been a roller coaster, meeting new people, doing things I've never done before.  I was working with Michael Breed the other day and had the Golf Channel at my club, and you know, it's been -- as tough as it's been, it's been the best 27 days probably of my life so far, aside from that tournament.
BOB DENNEY: Anyone who tuned into Golf Channel in June would have seen the closing few minutes of our National Championship.  Rich is approaching the 18th green at the Atunyote Golf Club in Verona, and he is facing a birdie putt which he has to make to probably have a chance, we think for a playoff.  But things change rapidly.
Rich, could you describe that 33-foot putt?
RICH BERBERIAN, JR.: My caddie gave me a pretty good read.  He was great with the reads all week.  All I was really trying to do was get it as close as I could and try and get into a playoff.  That's all I really thought about was just control your speed, get it around the hole, a couple feet around the hole, and make it stress-free, try and get yourself a tap-in, and you know, I don't want to -- I obviously don't want to wish any bad luck on Omar.  But was hoping, if I didn't make it, we could probably go into a playoff and try and get him there.
When I saw the putt come off, I knew it was right where I had started and the line was good.  To see it start slowing down and hanging on the left side of the hole was awesome.
BOB DENNEY: Before we open it up to questions.  A couple notes about Rich:  He's the second New England member in PGA history to win our championship, following Bob Lendzion in 1986.  He is also a PGA member who two years ago and one month, became a PGA member.  He's one of four members in this week's PGA Championship field who has a father who is a PGA club professional.
So open up to questions, if we could, from the floor.
Q. What's this experience been like so far this week, and talk about some of your preparation.  You referenced Michael Breed; your experience so far this week and how you've been preparing?
RICH BERBERIAN, JR.: This week has been really special.  Playing in that tournament and winning, winning the way I did, I've got so many congratulations from everybody.  I've had some players in the field come up and congratulate me and I've had other people congratulate me all week.
It means a lot, just to know, you know, it wasn't just me out there.  I read a lot of people saw it, and at the time, I didn't think it was going to be as big as it was.  Now that I'm here, it's really putting everything into perspective.
As far as prepping for the tournament -- is that the other question?  Just practice.  Just practice at my club and playing with some members, playing with some friends and hitting balls.
I think I played in one one-day tournament for the New England PGA maybe a couple weeks after I got back.  But aside from that, you know, just trying to stay loose and practice with friends.
Q. How does this change your schedule for the year, for next year?  What tournaments are you getting in because of the win, and have you applied -- including the Wyndham Championship, for spots in the field.
RICH BERBERIAN, JR.: As far as next year goes, I haven't been told of any tournaments that I'm into.  I've been told from Matt Dobbins, he said I get six events, and three they are going to choose for me and three I get to choose.  Obviously those are limited, too, but I haven't seen the schedule yet.
I haven't seen what tournaments I can get into, which are off-limits.  Until I really see that, I can't really kind of make a schedule.  If I can get into some tournaments in the fall, I might want to do that.  If I'm not playing good, then maybe I'll try and play some more in the spring or the summer next year, and I'll have to talk to my head pro about that one.
Q. What's your usual schedule during the winter period?  Don't tell me you're a ski instructor.
RICH BERBERIAN, JR.: No, my parents have a condo in Melbourne, Florida.  So I'm lucky enough to go down and spend three months probably down there.  I take it easy.  I try not to work.  I play, I practice.  I play with my dad and I practice with my dad, and I have a couple buddies that go down there, also.  We just try to take it easy.  It's a long nine, ten months up in New Hampshire of work, and it's good to have some time off.
Q. By winning the PPC, has the pressure been ratcheted up on you now in terms of expectations every time you go out by yourself, and your friends?
RICH BERBERIAN, JR.: Sure.  I don't know, maybe it's me, maybe I put it on myself, because I want to keep the momentum going.  I played well out there and I don't want to let anybody down and let anybody down that's been supporting me for a long time, and I think I do that to myself.  But at the end of the day, I know my dad, no matter what I shoot, is going to be there to say it's all right if I don't play good.  It's all right; we'll get 'em on the next one.
Q. With your dad as a PGA member and now as a national champion, in the Association's Centennial year, what has this Association meant to your life and your career?
RICH BERBERIAN, JR.: I've been a part of it my whole life.  My dad's been in it for I don't know how long.  But ever since I was born, he was the pro at Hoodkroft Country Club in Derry, New Hampshire.  I spent a lot of my time there with him.  My middle school was right down the street.  My high school was right down the street, so after school I could walk down there and see my dad, my pro, who was working his butt off his whole life.
You know, it means everything, because it's how he got into golf.  He's been through the whole PGA.  To be a part of it myself and get this opportunity from the organization to come out here and be talking to you guys is unbelievable.  So it means the world to me.
Q. This whole scene must look somewhat familiar to you.  You played in the U.S. Open last summer.  How did that experience impact what you're doing this week, or even in the last few weeks in the lead up?
RICH BERBERIAN, JR.: Well, I played -- I was fortunate to qualify last year.  I really, I don't know, again, I put a lot of pressure on myself and I kind of put myself behind the 8-ball right on the first tee.  I had a really bad experience the first day.  And since then, you know, I've been thinking about it a lot.  It was nothing about my game or nothing about anything except for lack of experience.
You know, after that week, again, my dad was right there to say, you know, who cares.  It's just a golf tournament.  And that's all I'm trying to do is just get myself at ease because I've got a lot of friends and family coming out here.
Like I said, I don't want to let them down, but at the end of the day, I've still just got to go out and play golf.  That's really what I've learned from the last tournament out in Washington.
BOB DENNEY: Am I correct that in '05 when the PGA Championship was held here at Baltusrol, that was the same year you played in the U.S.  Junior Amateur?
RICH BERBERIAN, JR.: It could be.  That was a long time ago.  I can't really remember that.  But I think so.  My junior year.
BOB DENNEY: With the limited time you've had here, could you speak about Baltusrol and what you've noticed and the shape of your game.
RICH BERBERIAN, JR.: It's good.  It's very fair.  The fairways aren't super narrow.  But you know, they are protected.  They have got bunker the right in the right spots on all the right holes.  I can tell you, if you miss a fairway, there's probably a 50/50 chance you're not getting to the green.  That's going to make it tough.
Getting up-and-down from 50 yards out here isn't going to be the easiest.  The shape of the greens and some of the slopes of the greens are very severe.  You know, it's going to be a grind.  I think there's going to be -- someone who plays good is going to get it up-and-down a lot.
BOB DENNEY: We also know the last time this championship was played at Baltusrol, four PGA club professionals made the cut.  Each one of those have won a National Championship.  Is that good karma?
RICH BERBERIAN, JR.: Yeah, I mean, I hope to keep the streak going.  But again, you're trying to put pressure on me.  But I learned my lesson on that.  I'm going to go out there and I'm going to pretend that it just me out there and just me playing the golf course, whatever the par is on the hole doesn't matter to me.  I'm going to try and get it in the hole as soon as I can and however I can.
BOB DENNEY: Last year there were 3,900 PGA professionals that attempted to qualify for the PGA Professional Championship.  One was surviving, and he's right with us now, Rich Berberian, have a great week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT