SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 3, 2018
Peter Uihlein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I kept describing those putts right on the t edge; just came up short.  It was a frustrating day I know, but you were still rolling them good.  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah, I wouldn't really say I was overly frustrated.  I didn't feel like I hit it probably close enough as I probably could have to feel like, Hey, these are really makable.  I didn't feel like I missed any putts I should have made.   
For the most part I feel comfortable with it.  I feel like the putter has been very good.  Under pressure today it felt great, so definitely pleased with it.   
 Q.  Ball striking good again.  Obviously going into tomorrow with a lot of confidence.  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah, I am.  Yeah.  Feel like the game feels good, swing feels good, putting, everything feels good.  Alignment, setup.   
Yeah, tomorrow will be a little bit of a shootout depending on the wind.  So, yeah, it'll be fun.   
 Q.  16-under right now; tomorrow maybe, what, got to get to 22, something like that?  
PETER UIHLEIN: It depends.  Yeah, you could see even today when it was windy guys were still going low, so, yeah, depends on the weather and then -- yeah, so we'll see.   
 Q.  Excited about playing with Bryson and Lucas Glover?  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah.  I've played with Bryson a few times over the year.  I like Bryson.  We get along.   
Lucas is a great guy.  He's definitely a good ole country boy and definitely a good guy to play with.   
 Q.  Just get an opening comment on your round today and looking forward to tomorrow.  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah, it was steady.  Didn't feel like I did anything crazy out there.  Hit some good shots and kind of bad swing on 10 that cost me a stroke there.   
Other than that, it was fine.  Definitely pleased and look forward to tomorrow.  Tomorrow will be exciting.  Depending on the weather, if it's windy could be tricky again.  If not, yeah, I think you can get after it.  It will be a bit of a shootout.   
Definitely look forward if.  I'm excited.  Nice to be in this position this quick after playing poorly for a few weeks.  Definitely excited and looking forward to it.   
 Q.  Coming out with the lead did you change the way you approached the golf course today?  
PETER UIHLEIN: I think you had to just because it was windy, trickier.  I think if you were out earlier the wind wasn't really that -- didn't pick up, so I think you could be a bit more aggressive.   
I felt like with the way some of the course was set up, after hole 12 I felt like you could get after it.  At least made a couple birdies after that, so that was nice.  Before that felt like it was tough.  It was tricky.   
 Q.  Earlier in the week you said career is a marathon, not a sprint.  Are you ready for tomorrow's sprint?  This is one of the best chances you've had.  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah.  Yeah, it is.  Yeah, I mean, last year I felt like I had some good events; came kind of close at a few.  Yeah, this is all a step in the right direction of where I want to get to.  If I want to become a top player in the world, win tournaments, this is what you got to do.  You got to get yourself in contention in the final group on Sunday.   
This is all a good process and step in the right direction.  Looking forward to it and should be a lot of the fun.   
 Q.  Did you see that Lucas had gone low and that kind of set the tone for the day?  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah, I didn't know what he started at, but I saw he was up there at 12 when I looked at one point; obviously finished at 15, I think.   
Yeah, didn't know what he started at until I think I saw what he shot on -- I think I saw the board on 17.  He shot 10-under, I think.  Yeah, I mean, obviously you can get some birdies out there.   
 Q.  Don't want to put the cart before the horse, but what would a win mean to you?  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah, I mean, it would be obviously great.  I know it's a process.  Like I said, this is just all a step in the right direction of where I want to get to.  Tomorrow is gonna be a good challenge for me and definitely excited for it.   
 Q.  You're in the final group with Bryson.  He had three wins last year.  What do you have to do to beat him and everybody else?  
PETER UIHLEIN: I can't really control what he does.  I can only really kind of handle what I can do.  You know, whatever is going to happen is going to happen.  All I know is what I can control.  I'm going to have a lot of fun out there and enjoy it.   
Like I said, it's a good situation to be in.  Yeah, looking forward to the challenge.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT