NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2017
Peter Uihlein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  If you could talk about your third round.  
PETER UIHLEIN: I feel like a wet rat.  It was good.  A little sloppy at the end, but solid start of the round.  Yeah, I'm pleased with that.  Everybody went low.  So what are you going to do?   
 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about your decision to play the Web.com Tour finals?  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah.  It's just because of the schedule really.  There are some events going on right now in Prague and next week Switzerland and French Open.  I just felt like it just fit kind of where I was and I'm high enough I felt like I could afford to kind of miss a month or so and then go right back over when I'm done after whatever the fourth one is.  So I'll head back over and play Dunhill Links and Italian Open.  So it felt like it was a good opportunity to kind of get your card and figured why not.   
 Q.  Is the PGA TOUR like the way you perceive your career long-term, is that where you feel like you ultimately want to play?  
PETER UIHLEIN: I'm more known than just being a global player.  I think wherever I can play, I've never really passed up an opportunity to play anywhere in the world.  Yeah, I've been to a lot of places, and yeah, I think PGA TOUR is kind of -- ideally I'd like to play both tours and keep kind of making my own schedule.  That would be what would be nice.  I still got a little ways to go before I can do that.   
 Q.  Going into tomorrow you have a chance to lock up that card with a top four finish.  Mentally what are you looking forward to doing?  How do you approach tomorrow?  
PETER UIHLEIN: Just kind of the way I have been.  These four weeks for me is just kind of ^ cruising in really.  I don't really have much expectations or like I said, worst case I go back to Europe, play over there, which is a great gig.  Like I said, just kind of free-wheeling and being aggressive and see what I can do.   
 Q.  Is there on the Webb tour you've been friends with?  
PETER UIHLEIN: Talor Gooch played at Oklahoma State when I was there.  Yeah, there's a few guys you kind of see, you haven't seen in a long time.  Casey Wittenberg.  He also went to Oklahoma State.  That first time in years since he left Texas A & M.  That was probably any freshman year.  Yeah, there's a few guys you haven't seen in a long time I'm seeing this week.   
 Q.  Here in the States compared to golf in Europe, I know courses can be so different, but do you change how you prepare?  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah.  Like this today.  Kind of the norm.  Everybody was talking about yesterday how cold it was, and I was thinking I have four layers on when I play the Irish Open, and the Open this year was absolutely -- one of the rounds was just a thunderstorm.  It was brutal.  That's more of the norm for what we get over there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT