HNA OPEN DE FRANCE
July 1, 2017
Peter Uihlein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What's your verdict overall?  
PETER UIHLEIN: It was hard.  It was a tough day.  It was challenging for sure.  I don't think I would have wanted to have been out there earlier when the earlier boys were playing.  It seemed like the weather was much tougher.   
Yeah, level par, I have to take a peak, I think 3-under was low today.  Surprised me.  Played very challenging.   
 Q.  Par is momentum here, because there are so few birdies out there.  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah, feels that way.  There's a few holes we walk off thinking par, four, three, whatever, and you feel like you have a pretty good score.  There's some holes that you can kind of get after a little bit.  I didn't take advantage of a few where I had some wedges but I made some nice pars, so I'm not too disappointed.   
 Q.  How inspired are you by your brethren Koepka's win at the U.S. Open?  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah, I think it was coming for BK.  He's been playing awesome.  I was excited for him.  I was able to much can a the back nine.  I felt like the way that course set up, it was pretty tailor-made for him.  It was awesome to see.  He striped it down the stretch and that was pretty awesome.   
 Q.  Worked out well on the 18th for you.  
PETER UIHLEIN: Looked good from where I was standing.  Obviously hit it pretty hard for it to go that far by.  It was a nice par.   
 Q.  Difficult start with the bogey.  Was it a question of then having to stay patient before things finally came together on the back nine?  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yes and no.  I think the way that front nine was set up, it was tough.  It seemed like the easy holes played really hard and some of the hard holes played a little bit easier.  But you know, it felt like the holes where you had birdie looks, the first two days, it played a lot more challenging.   
So there weren't really -- I didn't really feel disheartened making pars for sure.  Yeah, it was just a challenging day.  I think the low was 3-under par.  It was tough.   
 Q.  I think there have only been three birdies on 17 and 18 today.  Just shows you what faces you coming down the stretch here.  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah, the way 17 plays downwind, it's not too bad but 18 is a bear.  It's a tough golf hole.  It's a tough tee shot.  It's a tough second shot.  It's a big, slopey green.  Yeah, 18's tough.  It just depends on the wind.  If it's the same wind direction -- you feel like you can get more on 17 if you can get your drive away and obviously 18 plays tough.   
First two days felt like 18 was straight downwind and you felt like you could get after 18, and 17 was really tough.  Just depends on the wind.   
 Q.  Second event in the Rolex Series, and you're in the final group out on the final day.  That must be a pretty exciting prospect.  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah, it is.  It's what you practise for, and it's what you play for is to get in contention on Sunday in the final group and see how it goes.  I was proud of the way I handled myself on the back nine.  I felt like I hit it a lot better after a shaky start.  Yeah, I'm excited for tomorrow for sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT