UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 8, 2016
Peter Uihlein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah, it's nice.  I hit some quality shots, putted well and holed some nice putts early on for pars which were nice to kind of get the round going.  Yeah, I'm pleased with it for sure.
Q. A very tidy finish.  Nice to do that at 18.
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah, a nice shot from the left rough there.  Just came out perfect.  It was a nice birdie on 16, as well.  So it was a nice little finish.
Q. We haven't seen you for a while.  Take us through the story.  What's been happening?
PETER UIHLEIN: I had a complete, what's it called, tendon or ligament, complete rupture, so I needed to get that fixed and also my hand was broken, as well.  They needed to remove a bone spur that was moving around and that needed to heal up, as well.
Took awhile to be honest with you.  I pitched up at the match play after a few months and had not touched a club.  Just tried to see how it would do there and then pitched up a couple times in the summer -- I don't know, maybe September or something, just to kind of see where my game was at.
The wrist just wasn't quite healed up fully to where I wasn't thinking about it.  It was nice to kind of just shut down I think right after those couple of events to really just kind of regroup, let it heal, and start back up, and at least I had the mind-set that I was going to play last week in Australia, so it kind of got me motivated on that level to get back and get ready to play.
Q. Still pain in the wrist and you couldn't strike the ball correctly?
PETER UIHLEIN: I was flinching.  Any time for a golfer, you start flinching at impact, you're going to struggle.  You're going to have issues.  I was just a little afraid to hit the turf and it took a lot longer than I expected.  It's kind of a process when it comes from an injury.  You've got to get healed up and then your swing, you've got to get that back fixed, and then the mental side of it comes into play.  Then you've got to go out and play.
I've been playing a lot of golf the last couple months back home, but it's just totally different when a Thursday rolls around.  Now it's just getting back into the swing of things and getting back into the flow of tournaments and getting back into the rhythm of that.
Q. Does that mean you trust it now 100 percent, or almost there?
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah, my wrist is fine completely.  No issues.  I haven't had any issues with it for a long time.  I've had a lot of good people helping me out, getting me back playing fully fit.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT