SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 2, 2018
Peter Uihlein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I'm alongside Peter Uihlein who finds himself atop the leaderboard at 13-under par; nice place to be.  And this is your debut, your first time here playing in this Shriners.  What about this golf course has really appealed to you?  
PETER UIHLEIN: I don't know.  I just like it.  There's a lot of holes that set up well for me.  A lot of just good sightlines with some good bunker placements.   
My distance control with my irons has been very good this week, so I've been able to have a kind of more stress-free two days.   
 Q.  Talk about the tale of two nines:  even par on the front and 5-under on the back.  You hit the switch there when you got to the second nine.  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah, yeah, I did.  Really from 6 on it was good; it was pretty efficient.   
 Q.  Yeah.  
PETER UIHLEIN: Gave myself good looks.  Didn't hole them kind of in the 7 through 11 stretch, but kept giving myself chances.  That's all you can do really.  Feel like I am putting well this week, so I felt like eventually the ball would go in.  As long as I just kept giving myself chances and staying patient I had a chance.   
 Q.  Iron play has been really good for two days.  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah, yeah, it has.  I don't know how many greens I hit today but felt like a lot.  I think from 7 on I hit every green.  Gave myself looks, which is what you want to do, so pleased.   
 Q.  Talk about your putter switch.  What did you switch to?  You are swinging it pretty good.  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah, switched to a -- not switched to.  Still use a Sky.  I was using -- it's like a special neck on the -- I don't know what they call them, to be honest with you.  It's a mallet version.   
Yeah, I just sets up square; something I needed.  My eye and sightlines were getting a little crooked.  Mallett forces you into a better setup and posture setup and better eyeline.  From there, I started seeing the track of the lines a lot better.   
The only difference is it's way heavier than I'm used to.  That was really kind of a focus the last ten days or so when I started switching to it was to get the speed of the greens or the speed of the weight and the feeling of the putter.   
 Q.  Doesn't matter what you call as long as it goes in, right?  
PETER UIHLEIN: Exactly.  No pictures on the card, is there?   
 Q.  For the second straight day you hit 16 out of 18 greens; 13-under par going into weekend.  How would you describe your second round?  
PETER UIHLEIN: Patient really.  From 7 on was pretty efficient.  Kind of sloppy start; missed a couple greens; hot a bad tee shot on 6 but made a great par, and that kind of righted the ship a little bit.   
From there on was pretty efficient.  Hit a lot of fairways and greens and gave myself looks.  Didn't make as many to start, but after that it was nice.   
 Q.  You touched on 7.  What would you say was the turning point on the back nine as you closed with that flurry of birdies?  
PETER UIHLEIN: I was just patient.  You know, I think it was one of those things.  Like I hit it close from felt like 7 on.  Just didn't really hole anything.  They did a good job with the hole locations.  They set them up on some tricky spots that if you're not perfect pin high or whatnot, you're almost putting on an crevice or a spine.   
You can hit good putts and they just don't go in just from where they're set up.  But from 12 on it was pretty good.  That was nice.   
 Q.  Progress report through two rounds with the mallet putter.  
PETER UIHLEIN: It's good.  Forces me into a position from a putter posture and eyeline standpoint; my other one I was getting a little too crooked with everything.   
From there that putter has been forcing me to be more knew straighter and square on.  For me that's been huge.  Definitely felt very comfortable.   
 Q.  The blade in the putter graveyard right now?  
PETER UIHLEIN: It's around.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  Not really a streaky player, right, kind of get hot sometimes?  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah.   
 Q.  How would you describe...  
PETER UIHLEIN: I can.  Yeah, I get going.  I can get it going.  I can shoot some low scores.  I mean, everybody can.  Everybody is really good out here.  It's definitely very difficult; PGA TOUR is a difficult tour; best players in the world.   
It's very deep and you feel like sometimes you can play well and you'll miss a cut.  So you always feel like you're just one good round away from turning it around.   
 Q.  Or two.  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah, yeah.   
 Q.  Is it kind of cool like being in the front and they got to chase you or does that really matter until you get to Sunday?  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah, it doesn't.  Yeah, I don't think that really matter until Sunday afternoon really on the back nine.  No, I think we still have 36 holes.  There is a lot of golf left.  I've heard it could be windy tomorrow, so that could be challenging.  It's nice that it's a U draw or everybody is kind of off at the same time.   
Guys can go out in the morning with no wind and the afternoon can be windy, so it's nice that it's kind of bunch up in that way.   
Other than that, like i said, 36 holes left.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT