PUERTO RICO OPEN
March 4, 2015
Peter Uihlein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   First I just wondered, you've been here, you've played twice before.   What about coming to Puerto Rico as far as we're in a bit of a paradise?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah.   It's nice.   Sidney Wolf does a great job.   I think he's obviously one of the best tournament directors here.   And you know, he does it right.   He invites all the young guys, and he just makes it a good camaraderie week, and he has such a great mix of fields, you know, young players, Champions Tour and then PGA TOUR.   So it's just a fun week.   It's a cool week.   You're staying on site.   And it's just very casual and it's always fun to play.  
   
 Q.   So when you're not playing, are you doing anything around the island, fishing or anything like that?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Depends.   I remember three years ago I went up into the rain forest, and we played college events.   We played at Rio Mar.   Same thing.   So I've been up in the rain forest.   I've gone out to eat.   A couple of years ago I think I flew in from Africa.   So I was asleep most of the afternoon.   And then this year, got the afternoon off.   Might do something like that.   So yeah, it's cool to see the island and check it out and see what all the local things are like.  
   
 Q.   I saw you had a string of weird ailments, like food poisoning and dehydration.   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   How are you feeling?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   I feel all right.   I'm still down in weight a little bit, but yeah, I feel fine.   
Yeah, then I dislocated my carpal bone in my thumb as well, so I had a funny three‑week stretch there.   But everything feels all right.   So we'll see how it goes.  
   
 Q.   Well, talked to Brooks a little last week, and he talked affectionally about you.   
PETER UIHLEIN:   He's too kind.  
   
 Q.   But I think someone was asking about the Ryder Cup and why those guys, the Europeans are so strong, and he mentioned just the bonding that happens on the European Tour, traveling together.   So can you tell me a little bit about that?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah.   You‑‑ yeah.   I think over there it's‑‑ everybody‑‑ I don't want to say everybody, but the majority of the guys you stay in the same place, you take the same flights.   You eat at the same restaurants at dinner.   So you kind of‑‑ they have their clicks for sure, but they all seem to kind of bond together a little bit better and a little bit more.   
Whereas, you know, this week a lot of the guys are on site, so you go out to dinner, everybody is kind of around, which is cool.   But you know, normal weeks, you know, first day, you know, everybody is at Hiltons, Hamptons.   There's a ton of them, Marriotts, all over the map.   So guys can kind of stay wherever and they have their own courtesy car, do their own thing, which, you know, it works for a lot of people, but I think over there when you travel together, you take buses together, you fly together.   I mean it's a whole different thing.   
And I mean a lot has to do with it growing up.   They play a lot of foursome matches growing up, in junior golf.   They have a lot of team competitions in amateur golf as well, so that helps quite a bit.   And it also helps that they're‑‑ they got a lot of top‑ranked players in the world right now.   And you know, it's a testament to just how far they've come over the years.  
   
 Q.   It's been really cool to see the collegiate alliances and teammates doing well on TOUR at the same time.   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel about that?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah.   I think it's cool when‑‑ like say my freshman year, I think, it was me, it was Fowler, Morgan Hoff and Kevin Tway.   So he had his card last year.   And then that whole year we played against Georgia, which had Brian Harman, Hudson Swafford, Harris English.   Adam Mitchell, Russell Henley.   So I mean there was some‑‑ between our two teams, seven of the nine guys are on the PGA TOUR.   Six out of 10 PGA TOUR.   One's on Web.com and I'm over in Europe.   You know, but we played against each other all year.   But you kind of get close to those guys playing with them.   And then you have a lot of good other players, you know, went to different universities.   And Cal.   Stanford's got a lot of guys out here, those West Coast schools.   So it's just really cool to see all the guys you grew up with in junior golf, college golf all out here on TOUR.  
   
 Q.   There's a lot of pranking and sharing embarrassing photos from those days.   Do you have any good in your arsenal waiting to come out?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   In college I got quite a bit.   They're not worth sharing, I don't think.   But yeah, no, yeah, we'll see.  
   
 Q.   Well, that's great.   So no food poisoning and dehydration, so going into this week you finished t 3 in 2013, and this week it's always you've seen a lot of success with rookies of the year going on.   So how are you feeling about competing this week?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah.   I feel all right.   Yeah, I hadn't really done a heck of a lot, to be honest with you.   I was sick, and so I didn't do much that week, and then last week up in Jupiter it was windy and rainy.   It was terrible weather, so it was hard to practice.  
But I mean it felt okay today, and I feel like I'm doing a little bit‑‑ getting back into the swing of things a little bit, which is nice, you know, so we'll see how it goes.  
   
 Q.   Okay.   Well, I have a few more fun questions to get the fun stuff.   
PETER UIHLEIN:   All right.  
   
 Q.   I don't know if you've ever thought about it, but if you weren't a golfer.   
PETER UIHLEIN:   I actually have thought about this.   I would do something with baseball.   I would love to run a baseball team.   I would love to be a General Manager of a baseball team, so I would do something along that line, starting out, just whatever it is starting out trying to kind of work your way up.   I absolutely love baseball.   So something along those lines is something I would do.  
   
 Q.   They just announced yesterday a new golf movie.   What's your favorite golf movie?  
PETER UIHLEIN: "Legend of Bagger Vance."   It's my favorite book.   They made it into a golf movie.   I really like it.   I named my dog after Bagger.  
   
 Q.   That's great.   What kind of dog?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Siberian Husky.   That's probably it.   
   
 Q.   Okay.   Cool.   So in your free time, when you're not practicing or playing, what do you do?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   What do we do?   We paddle board a lot.   Jet ski.   Just hang out really, because it's very rare that we're home from golfing.   So we travel 35 weeks a year.   You know, only home 17 weeks.   So when I'm home I like to just relax, paddle board, work out, play and practice with everybody and just have a lot of matches.   Just hang out really, you know.   Have a good time, be a 25‑year‑old kid, I guess.  
   
 Q.   Do you ever get back to Oklahoma?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   I've only been back twice.   Yeah, no.   I've been the last two years for football.   So it's‑‑ Stillwater is a tough place to get to.   You know, especially when you're‑‑ I remember coming back from last year, I think I was on the road for about six weeks and then went out there like for a few days, so it's tough when you're on the road for that long, you just want to come back and hang out, you know, just relax.   But I try and get back, I might go back here‑‑ I might have a little break here in a couple of weeks, so I might sneak back for the basketball game, but we'll see.  
   
 Q.   So you said you'd be a baseball manager.   Would you consider baseball your favorite sport?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   No.   I mean I love golf.   Golf's my favorite sport.  
   
 Q.   Besides golf.   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah.   Yeah.   I mean I love‑‑ yeah.   I love baseball.   I don't know.   I would‑‑ I don't know if I would ever play it.   I played it growing up, but it's not like something I ever really wanted to do.   But I love‑‑ I just love the managerial side of it and the front‑office side I think is just so fascinating.   You know, so it's caught my attention.   When "Money Ball" came out, I thought that was fantastic.   I loved that movie, and that's kind of what I envision that whole side of it to be like, so it's pretty cool.  
   
 Q.   Who's your favorite athlete?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Favorite athlete.   Tom Brady, I got a man crush on him.   I love Dustin Pedroia, I love the way he plays.   So one of those two.  
   
 Q.   Do you have a most embarrassing moment on the golf course?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   I don't really want to share it because it's embarrassing.   Yeah.   Yeah, I do.   Yeah, I'm not a big fan of frogs, so I was in‑‑  
   
 Q.   The video?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah.   I was in Amsterdam, and I stepped on this frog.   I swear, it was bigger than what it showed.   Yeah, I almost stepped on it and freaked out.   I didn't realize camp was there, and then Rickie tweeted it out.   Very selfish.   So yeah, that was pretty embarrassing.   
I'd gone a long time with getting away with not a lot of people knowing I didn't like frogs, so I'm kind of bummed that came out.  
   
 Q.   Well, it gave the commentators, I think they had some good puns right after that happened.   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, I did.   I saw the plays.  
   
 Q.   But you couldn't tell what it was until‑‑  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Until the little guy popped up, yeah.  
   
 Q.   What would your first‑tee walk‑up song be?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   I've actually thought‑‑ I would love nothing more than to have a walk‑up song.   I think that would be awesome.   When the guy announces you and then have a walk‑up song.   Like baseball.   I think that would be so cool.   
It always varies, to be honest.   It would probably be‑‑ probably be something by Hoodie Allen.   "Make It Home" by Hoodie Allen would be one of them.   Depends what I'm feeling at that point in time.   Either them, or I like Bob Marley.   One of those two guys probably.  
   
 Q.   Okay.   And last question.   I'm thinking off the cuff here.   What is something‑‑ I guess you did say that nobody knew you didn't like frogs, but what's something that people wouldn't know about you?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Allergic to chocolate.   
   
 Q.   How have you gotten by?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   I don't know.   I don't really like sweets anyway.   I just don't like it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT