OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 29, 2015
Peter Uihlein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PETER UIHLEIN:   Nice start.   Played well.   I think I missed three greens, so it was a solid day, putted well, especially starting off.  
   
 Q.   I take it as that was building into birdie after birdie, you were thinking all sorts of possibilities out there?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, when the course is obviously in fantastic shape‑‑ the greens are perfect.   I think when you get the ball rolling and started on the right line, generally seem to roll in out here because they are so good.   I felt like I had a lot of good opportunities converted.   
   
 Q.   Converted seems the right word because the greens are receptive and still lightning fast and running smoothly, like snooker tables?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   We call them pool tables, but same thing.   They are really good. They are always really good here, so it's always a treat to come.  
   
 Q.   Was that the key to the day, putting, or all sort of things?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   It was a combination, really.   Took advantage of when I had some looks and took advantage of them early.   But, yeah, played the par 5s pretty well, which is always key.   Yeah, it was a good, solid day.  
   
 Q.   Shrug off 17?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, I got too cute.   It happens.   Yeah, it happens.   Tried to get a little too cute with it and cut it a little heavy.   It was nice to finish with a nice par on 18.   
   
 Q.   Put it into context, because we obviously spoke to you in Abu Dhabi, things were going nicely, other good rounds.   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, my game is feeling good.   I feel like I've been scoring pretty well.   I was going along nicely last week and then took an 8 on the par3.   So I feel like my game's been going pretty well.   I've just got to kind of put all four together and see where it goes.  
   
 Q.   Which doesn't seem far away presumably.   
PETER UIHLEIN:   You'd like to hope not but since really after The Open, I've been playing pretty solidly, nothing really spectacular, just solid.   I feel like if you just keep making the weekend and giving yourself a chance, you never know what can happen.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT