ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 15, 2015
Peter Uihlein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PETER UIHLEIN:   It was a solid day.   Overall it was good.   
   
 Q.   Usually a bit of rust in the system, not entirely sure what to expect?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Not where I live.   It's good weather down in Jupiter.   So, no, I've been playing and practicing every day.   Not much rust.  
   
 Q.   Competitive golf can be different to the practice but you feel nicely prepared I guess.   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, we get a lot of nice greens down there in Florida.   Yeah, it is a different feeling when you step on the first hole, but game felt pretty good coming into this, and a decent one today.  
   
 Q.   You had the sun on your back, but nice to come to this part of the world to start the campaign?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, it's a little bit less windy than it is in Florida for us, but no, the course doesn't get any better than this.   It's fantastic.  
   
 Q.   Are you noticing any changes to the course, because it has been modified a little.   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, there are some greens that have changed.   I didn't really notice until guys were talking about them yesterday and I played my practice round.   Seems that they could add a couple new hole locations, but it's a demanding course as it is.   It's still tough.   
   
 Q.   The changes didn't affect you unduly.   
PETER UIHLEIN:   I don't think I used any of the new stuff yet, so we'll see how it turns out.  
   
 Q.   How do you shape up for 2015?   Are you a guy that makes resolutions, targets?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, I definitely do, but mine is more‑‑ not performance‑based.   I feel like if I take care of health, body and make some maneuvers and swings and stuff like that, I think the results are going to take care of themselves.   Mine is more stuff like that and try and just see how it goes.  
   
 Q.   That's unusual, a slightly different approach to most who will have more performance‑based targets.   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, I used to be ‑‑ I feel like it just kind of locks you in.   You could have a good year, but you didn't make a certain goal and think it's a bad year.   
But I think as long as you keep improving and keep improving your body and keep improving your swing, gradually the results take care of themselves.  
   
 Q.   Likely to feel the benefit of having done it all before out on Tour?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, it's nice coming back to places that you've seen.   Gone to a few places I've seen a few times now.   It's nice leading up to this year.   I played here last year in all these events, so it's good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT