SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 9, 2014
Peter Uihlein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You must be super excited about this Sunday.   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, it's nice to get a good Sunday under my belt.   I've kind of been struggling on my final rounds, so it was nice to put a good number out there.   It was good.  
   
 Q.   Take me into the back.   You get the chip‑in at 16, I don't know how many boards at that point you're even looking at, there's a lot of golf to be played, but did it force your issue a little bit on those tee shots on 17 and 18?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   No, not particularly.   I missed a couple pretty good looks on 10, 11, 6.   So I kind of, at that point, I felt like I needed a lot of really good things to happen.   
Then I rattled off three nice birdies and the chip‑in was kind of out of left field, I think.   But it was nice.   It gave me a chance, which was good.   Just didn't guess it right on 17 and then hit a nice putt on 18 though.  
   
 Q.   Speaking of your chances, your chance on the PGA TOUR, I know you're heading back to Turkey next week.   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Tonight.  
   
 Q.   Tonight.   This would have gotten you in next week with a top‑10.   Obviously you're going to go play in that event.   Does it change your mind or what is your future outlook now with the PGA TOUR?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   I don't know, I got to give Chubbs a call and see what the crack is.   As of right now I have no idea.   I have a flight to Turkey tonight and we'll see from there.  
   
 Q.   One way or the other you'll be in a country someplace.   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Someplace.   You never know where I'll pop up.   
   
 Q.   7‑under 65, your best for last, while only hitting three fairway, how good was it, all things considered?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Man, why did you bring that up?   I didn't even know.   I hit a lot of first cuts, so I'm going to take that with me.   
No, I played well.   I had a lot of good things happen, especially on 16, but I had some chances early to get it going and just kind of the putter got rolling and it was nice.   It's a good, solid day.   
   
 Q.   You've been all around the globe, as we have documented throughout the course of this year.   What does a finish like this do for you?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Oh, it's ‑‑ it obviously helps your confidence.   I had a 10‑top down in Australia a couple weeks ago and now looking like a top‑5.   I'm very pleased that I'm trending in the right direction.   
I was hurt and I was struggling, so, as of late, I've been feeling like form's coming back and I feel like I'm starting to play a little bit better, which is nice.  
   
 Q.   Earlier in the week we chatted, you said you were going to go back to Turkey for the Race to Dubai.   A top finish gets you in next week, what are the plans now?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Your guess is as good as mine.   So, yeah, I got to call Chubb and see what the deal is and figure it out from there.   
   
 Q.   Good options though to have either way.   Is it the big picture you consider or is it the immediate event ahead of you?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Big picture.   It always is.   Life is a marathon, not a sprint.   
If Turkey is the call, then that's where I'm going to go play.   And if Chubbs wants me down in Mexico, I can do that.   It's nice to have options.   Which is ultimately what you want.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT