ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 25, 2014
Peter Uihlein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Happy with your round today?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, it was nice.   It was solid.   Clean card, which is always good.  
Yeah, definitely pleased.  
   
 Q.   Give you great hopes going into tomorrow?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, as long as TO stays within sight gives everybody a chance.   He seems to be running away with it.   It was nice to kind of get up there and get in contention.   
   
 Q.   Did you see that was coming from your first two rounds today?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, I just felt like if I get off to better starts ‑‑ I played the front nine pretty bad the first two days.   Felt like if I can get off to a little bit quicker start I can keep attacking the back, which I've ben doing.  
3‑under making the turn and nice par on 9, so I felt like I had some good momentum going into the back nine.  
   
 Q.   How is the course?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Awesome.   This place a great.   We don't get a lot of Alister MacKenzie designs up in America.   You got Augusta, Cypress.   Those are the only true, I think, MacKenzies that are still around.   
Definitely a treat to play.  
   
 Q.   Does it suit your game?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   I think he's one of the best designers, him and Donald Ross.   Just no bad holes, in my opinion, on their courses.   
So it is good.  
   
 Q.   Just for the Aussie fans that haven't seen a lot of you, tell us about yourself.   What got you into golf?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Grew up in Mass.   Yeah, northeast just south of Boston.   Moved to Florida when I was 13 to got to a golf academy down there.  
Just went to college at Oklahoma State.   Won the U.S. Am when I was 21, and the turned pro the next year.  
Just kind of been playing.   
   
 Q.   Was golf always the love of your life?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   My dad works for Acushnet, and so he's in the business.   My mother's grandfather was a head pro for about 30 years.   Her brother played.   
Just kind of always about in our family, I guess.   I love baseball.   That's probably my favorite sport.   Kind of want to check out the World Series.   I don't know if it's over yet.  
Yeah, always been my first sport.   I've always enjoyed the individual aspect of golf, so that's why I chose it.   
   
 Q.   What's it been like playing with Jason.   Is that the first time you've played with him?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, Jason is great.   Obviously major champion, top 30 in the world I believe.   You can tell he's had some time off, but, no, he's still a quality player, a great player.   It was fun.  
   
 Q.   European Tour win for you last year.   What would another one mean here?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   It would be nice because my season was almost kind of cut short.   Had to take three months off from a back injury, so it will be nice to end the season on a high note.  
Hopefully have a good day tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   How is the back now?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, it's good.   Fine.   Feels good.   
   
 Q.   What was the exact nature of that injury?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   I had a popped rib and bulging disc in my T4, 5 spine area.   Just needed some rest.  
   
 Q.   How did you do that?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Playing golf.   
   
 Q.   Amazing the stress on the body just from the swing.   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, yeah.   It's a little bit too much torque, I guess.   But it's good now.  
   
 Q.   Was it a single motion that did it or a buildup?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Buildup.   Kind of neglected it over time it just kind of built up and kind of caved on me.   
   
 Q.   Did you need surgery?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   No.   Just rest.   I got lucky.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT