VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 9, 2014
Peter Uihlein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Something of everything in that round but a good score to start, isn't it?  
PETER UIHLEIN:     Yeah, I made triple on 1, so that's always a good time, that's always a fun start.   Yeah, it was one of those things, made a bad swing, made a triple but kept telling myself it was the first hole of a 72‑hole tournament, and everybody is going to miss one out here, especially with it being so challenging.   
I made a great up‑and‑down on 5 to stay at 3 over.   I felt like I had just kind of gotten it going a little bit, and I rattled off three nice birds and I was kind of back in it a little bit so that was nice.  
   
 Q.   Does that mean a bit of pride in yourself, as well, probably relief, as well?   
PETER UIHLEIN:     Yeah, I think rounds like today, you appreciate these rounds a lot more than the rounds where everything is going your way.   The days where you get tested early and face a little bit of struggle early on and are able to recover and bounce back and put together a nice round‑‑ you can shoot yourself out of this tournament very quickly and now I'm back in it.   
   
 Q.   Nice way to start the year, guaranteed four rounds.   
PETER UIHLEIN:     Yeah, it's a great way to start the year.   Nedbank was a great way to finish the year and this is a great way to start the year.   We're very spoiled out here and we're very fortunate out here to be playing a game we all love and out here in this beautiful weather, so it's fantastic.   
   
 Q.   Sounds like you enjoying being in South Africa?   
PETER UIHLEIN:     I do.   I do.   I like this limited field, no cut, it's good fun.   It's a good time down here.   I enjoy it and fantastic, so it's good.  
   
 Q.   You are The European Tour's Rookie of the Year and you had a successful time last season; does that change things going into a new year?  
PETER UIHLEIN:     Not really.   It's all about just trying to get better and trying to crack the Top‑50 in the world and go on from there.   That's my goal is to do that, but we'll see, I've got a few events left before the Masters cutoff and try to get in that, and then we'll see.   But as of right now, there's a lot of short term goals and I'll think long term after that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT