SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 1, 2018
Peter Uihlein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Well, Peter let's talk about today.  You missed only two greens and I thought our iron play was superb.  Putting though, you're No. 1 in strokes gained putting.  A lot of putts, in fact, 126 feet of putts.  What was better, iron play or putting?  
PETER UIHLEIN: It's a nice change.  I hadn't been putting great the first few weeks of the season.  Yeah, it's just nice that I put in a lot of work last week for a few days and switched putters, so it's nice to kind of see that hard work kind of pay off this quickly.  Wasn't really expecting it.   
More or less just kind of trying to go through, not really the motions per se, but just being a bit more technical I guess on the greens for me, which is obviously what I usually do.   
So nice to see those results pay off.   
 Q.  How good was today?  As followed you, you were in total control where that ball was going.  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah, I hit it great.  I drove it well.  I hit a lot of fairways.  Hit it great.  Yeah, missed, like you said, two greens.  One was early and then I had that missed green on 7.   
But other than this, it was very solid.  I gave myself some good looks.  Yeah, I'm definitely not disappointed with today.   
 Q.  Sets you up for a good week.  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah, it does.  It's nice to get off to a good start, especially when there wasn't much wind.  I've heard mixed reviews on the forecast this week, so nice to get off to a good start and take advantage of good conditions early.   
 Q.  Made that turn and you really turned it on.  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah.  Perfect start, wasn't it, on the back, so...   
 Q.  Then you start thinking, This could get really low?  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah, I mean, I would say 8-under is still really low.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  No, that's not good enough.  (Laughter.)  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah.  I mean, I was just trying to literally just plot my way around, to be honest with you.  I needed to -- I was really bad the first few tournaments this year, at least starting off.  Got really lazy and complacent and wasn't mentally sharp enough for what I needed to be to be able to compete out here.   
So this week it was just more or less trying to work on my mindset a little bit, mental game, and see where that approach takes me.   
 Q.  We hear the word potential about a lot of guys; you're one of those guys we've always heard about.  When you see these names getting their wins and breaking through, does that fire you up?  
PETER UIHLEIN: I've always believed the game of golf is more of a marathon and a journey and not a sprint.  Yeah, I mean, it's one of those things if you keep working hard, keep your head down, keep focused, stay disciplined, results will follow.  You're not really trying to press or force anything.   
Just kind of get back to -- that's what I kind of tried to do last week.  I needed to get back to work and be a lot more focused and disciplined.  I didn't expect to see results like this this quick, but it's nice.   
 Q.  What caused you to get lazy and complacent?  
PETER UIHLEIN: Couple weeks off.  You know, just get tired.  Yeah, I mean, it's a long season.  Yeah, just really tired and just didn't touch a club for a couple weeks.  Just wasn't sharp enough for what I needed to be to compete in these events out there, so...   
 Q.  How did you snap yourself out of it?  
PETER UIHLEIN: Just there are 24 hours in a day.  I tried to t utilize as much as possible really.  I tried to, like I said, put my head down and get back to work.  Yeah, and like I said earlier about mental approach as well, I needed to adjust that a little bit and get back to being a lot sharper.   
 Q.  Did you switch putters for this tournament?  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah, I switched right when I got home, right out of Korea.  Yeah, just a mallet.  I used a mallet once or twice couple years ago.  Just my alignments and line were all messed up.  Needed something to square me up a lot more.   
 Q.  So you have a blade now?  
PETER UIHLEIN: No, I have my mallet.  I was using a played for a long time.  Just needed something to square me up a bit.   
 Q.  How do you come to a realization that you've been lazy?  
PETER UIHLEIN: Results.  Just not good results that's all it is.  You look at results, and I didn't feel like I was playing up to par or what I could.  Yeah, just lack of discipline, effort.  That's all it was.   
 Q.  What did you do with the old putter?  
PETER UIHLEIN: (Laughter.)  It's unusable.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT