BMW MASTERS PRESENTED BY SRE GROUP
October 24, 2013
Peter Uihlein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, that was tough today, that was really hard.   That was some round by Luke.   I don't know what course he played, but man, that was really difficult today. 
I got off to a bad start and I was able to grind it out and finish well, so it was nice.

Q.   Presumably you're proud of your score?
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, would I have taken anything under par today, for sure.   Especially I was a couple over early and it was only going to get tougher from there.   I was proud of the way I hung in there and finished off a good day.

Q.   I'm sure it's obvious but what is it that's making it particularly difficult; the wind, the course itself, the nature of it?
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, the wind is tough.   The greens are firm and fast.   The ball is oscillating a little bit on the greens, and so you're standing over the putt and your ball is kind of wiggling a little bit.   It's a challenge, but there are some decent scores out there.   It was tough but it was fair. 

Q.   And your score came good when you heard about Red Sox. 
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, I found out on the 7th tee, they won 8‑1.   I knew when I teed off it was 5‑0, and so yeah, then I found out they won 8‑1, so it's a good day.

Q.   I take it you weren't able to watch any of thatup to the 5‑0?
PETER UIHLEIN:   No, I did, I watched the three‑run first inning and I was getting updates warming up that they scored. 

Q.   How have you acclimatised coming out here?
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, it's tough.   I got in early Tuesday morning, and, yeah, I feel okay.   Feel fine, a couple good night's sleep and I'll be all right. 
Still, it's a long way to come, and I think Luke just came for a week, so that's a definite long way to come for a week.   But we are all glad to be here, it's a great tournament and wouldn't miss it for the world.

Q.   Do you feel regenerated after the Dunhill, as well, going home?
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, I took a week off and then started practicing a little bit.   Swing still feels pretty good and it was a good day today.   We'll see how it goes the next few days. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT