ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 28, 2013
Peter Uihlein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I take it that's a lovely way to back up a round of 60 yesterday?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, it's always tough shooting a low one after a really low one but I got off to a nice start and had it going and it's a nice finish, so that's always good.  
   
 Q.   With that nice finish, did you kick yourself and say, why couldn't that happen yesterday?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   No, not at all.   It's funny, I felt like I missed quite a few putts kind of coming down the stretch, so made up for it I guess.   Like I said, just a good finish, and I kind of got pretty lucky there, so it was nice.  
   
 Q.   First competitive knock around the Old Course.   What do you make of the old lady?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   It's awesome.   It's one of the best.   I think it's the best course I've ever played.   It was fantastic, it was fun to play.   We lot lucky with the weather and with the wind not blowing, but it was just an absolute joy.  
   
 Q.   Did you have that feeling when you first set eyes on it and just marvel?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, I've played a few times here and I've always seemed to play it pretty well out here.   Just feel comfortable and I just love the imagination side of links golf and how creative you have to be, play the turf.   I love playing golf out here.   It's a lot of fun so it's great.  
   
 Q.   Wonderful to finish in that kind of style.   Tell us some of the details.   
PETER UIHLEIN:   I think we had about 40 to cover, I think 47 hole, and I was trying to pitch it about 42 and pitched it 47, so it worked out.   
   
 Q.   Happy with your position, no doubt?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, yeah, I'm pleased leading going into tomorrow.   I'm just trying to get myself in position going into Sundays, and I feel like I'm doing that quite a bit this year and hopefully tomorrow will be a good day and we'll see how it goes.  
   
 Q.   You've been asked this before, but do you learn from that experience of leading, and gets easier over time?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   I don't know if it gets easier, but it doesn't hurt.   The more you do it, the more comfortable you get.   I think that's what it's all about is just kind of getting comfort and not getting out of your routine and your rhythm and keep your head on straight and keep the pedal down and see how it goes.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT