ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 27, 2013
Peter Uihlein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PETER UIHLEIN:   I had a lot of good moments today.   I drove the ball well and hit a lot of wedges.   My wedges have been dialed in this week, and you know, I've been pin‑high a lot and I've had a lot of good looks.   Today just happened to fall in and it was a good day.  
   
 Q.   How much have you had 359 on your mind, especially just missing very close on the 18th?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Not till my 17th hole, the 8th hole, when I birdied 7 to get to 11‑under.   I was thinking I could go 2,4 and shoot 59 but that was the first time it crossed my mind.  
   
 Q.   How special is it for you being here at St. Andrews, Kingsbarns today obviously, but playing on these wonderful courses?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Fantastic.   It's such a great tournament.   I think this is one of the premiere events; you get to play St. Andrews, Kingsbarns, Carnoustie, doesn't get any better than that.   Fortunate enough with the weather and I had a great draw today with Ernie, he's definitely been like an idol to me.   It's been fantastic and a great week.   
   
 Q.   Unfortunately you didn't play alongside Huey Lewis, how much were you looking forward to playing with him?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, I was definitely disappointed.   I heard he was sick so there's nothing you can do about it.   The amateur, Bradley, he's a good, young Scottish player and it's been exciting.   He's been playing great so it's good to feed off his energy.  
   
 Q.   You've been playing fantastic through the season; how much is it victory in the back of your mind?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   I mean, we've got two more days at St. Andrews.   You never know with the wind.   It can blow a gale and then all of a sudden it becomes really difficult.   
I've still got two more days and I'm just happy to get a good round in today.   Obviously it turned into something special, so that's good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT