ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
August 31, 2013
Peter Uihlein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tricky conditions despite the sunshine?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, it was good.   The wind was tricky because it would lay down and it would pick up, but it felt like it was pretty‑‑ it was always in the same direction so you could kind of get a good beat on it.   I was able to play solid, and like I said, I was able to attack where I needed to attack and mostly just kind of hit it in the spots that I need to, and I was able to plot my way around, so it was nice.  
   
 Q.   I take it the eagle was significant?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah it was a good eagle.   First time I went for it all week, felt I could attack it, and I hit a good 3‑wood and nice 4‑iron to 15 feet so it was a good eagle.  
   
 Q.   Are you getting more and more used to playing in this kind of position, at the top of the leaderboard?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, today I felt like I was much better, like I was able to slow everything down and just kind of be in my own little element and I was really trying to look at my yardage book and make sure I didn't get ahead of myself and keep it at one shot at a time.   
I feel like playing the PGA was an unbelievable experience, playing with Jim Furyk and the way he handles his business.   Something I learned, I feel like, just watching him go about what he does, and the way he handles himself, and that's something I try to do for my game and hopefully it keeps going.  
   
 Q.   And today, playing alongside Europe's Ryder Cup Captain, how was that?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, Paul is a nice guy.   We chatted a little bit but he was focused on his game, I was focused on my game.   It was fun to play with him.  
   
 Q.   The points list starts this week, you've surely noticed, but you're not eligible for it, so must be a little bit strange I suppose?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, I'm just trying to focus on coming out and hitting good shots.  
   
 Q.   I suppose you would like to get into the Cup from the other side of things?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, it would be great.   Obviously that's a goal and dream to play in The Ryder Cup, represent your country.   One day, you never know, and definitely striving for that and keep working hard and keep my head down and see how it goes.  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts into the final round here at Wales?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   I'm excited.   I feel like I put myself in a good position and giving myself opportunities, and that's what it's all about.   I feel like the more and more I do it, the more comfortable I'm doing.   Today was a great day and good step in the right direction and hopefully I'll be able to repeat that tomorrow.   
Today was solid and I felt like I was able to plot my way around there and was able to execute the zones I was looking for.   It was a good, solid day.  
   
 Q.   Saw you hit a lot of shots with a curtailed follow‑through, you're all controlling the flight of the ball in these breezy conditions; is that something you've learnt since you've played here in Europe?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, I'm doing it a lot more with my irons.   Butch has me doing that, especially with my short irons, gives me more control and helps me with the flight and be more consistent.   Definitely something I've learned since I was winning over here, so it's been good.  
   
 Q.   4‑under par for the par 5s, is your length a big advantage on this course?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   I hit driver on one of them, 18, and my wedge game has been spot on and I've been hitting in the right zones on the greens and leaving myself some uphill, good looks.   So that's kind of what I've been trying to do and pick apart the par 5s that way.  
   
 Q.   It was your birthday earlier in the week, you are a long way from home, did the presents and cards arrive?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, a lot of texts, a lot of messages, so it's been good.   I think I will celebrate when I get back home in a couple weeks, but kind of tough, first round of a tournament, you can't really celebrate.   
   
 Q.   Give us some thoughts on tomorrow going into this situation.   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, I'm excited and I'm looking forward to it, and it's always a challenge.   I feel like I've put myself in a good position a lot this year and I've had some opportunities, and hopefully I can just stick to my game plan and just aim for zones and just try to plot my way around.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT