ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
August 30, 2013
Peter Uihlein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PETER UIHLEIN:   After last week, it was nice to come back and play two solid rounds and get myself in contention for the weekend.   
   
 Q.   Despite what happened at last, you are nicely in contention, that's a lovely position, isn't it?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, it is.   That's what you try and get going into the weekend, and right where I want to be and hopefully I can put together two nor solid days.  
   
 Q.   Seems pretty calm at the moment but I take it was tricky.   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, it was blowing.   We were on 13th tee, that par 3, and I didn't think there was a chance you could get it on the green.   It was tough.   It was very difficult today, and you know, it was a nice, solid did a I.  
   
 Q.   Does that make you second guess a bit out there, as well?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, when the wind blows like that, it's tricky, but you know, me and Sam, my caddie, we were pretty solid today and we talked through a lot of things and were able to execute and had a good day.   
   
 Q.   Did you watch The Ryder Cup in 2010 when it was here?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, I did.   It was Fowler's first Ryder Cup, and he's one of my best friends, so I definitely watched it.   It was a gut‑wrenching loss for us.  
   
 Q.   When you step up to the course, do you sort of recognise things and visualise them?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, you remember, like 18, it's hard not to forget 18 with that big slope in front, and 16, where Graeme made that putt and 17, the par3.   Yeah, you definitely remember some things.   
   
 Q.   I've got to wish you a belated happy birthday; did you get a nice present at all?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   As of right you know, no.   Still coming.  
   
 Q.   Brooks said he was going to get you something nice, but was he just teasing?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   His definition of nice might be different than mine, so we'll see.  
   
 Q.   Any celebrations or kept it quiet because of the work?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Kept it quiet.   Maybe when the tournament is over on Sunday, we might celebrate a little bit, but that's it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT