THE IRISH OPEN
June 28, 2013
Peter Uihlein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  NEIL AHERN:   Have you much experience playing in conditions like this back home?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   In college in Oklahoma it was quite windy all the time.   So I quite enjoy the wind and knew it was tough out there.   It was gusting at times, and it was a good, solid day.  
NEIL AHERN:   And you told me yesterday that your driving wasn't quite what you wanted it to be, but looked better today.   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, it was much better.   I gave my coach, Butch, in America a call and he helped me out a little bit on the range and he's got me with good feels and good thoughts and hopefully I can keep it going.   
NEIL AHERN:     Have you been here to Ireland before?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   No, first time.   Yeah, it's fantastic.   The Irish fans live up to the reputation of being very knowledgeable and supportive, so it's been good.   
   
 Q.   I presume people at home might find it strange that you would revel in these conditions, cold and windy and not what you're used to; why do you think it is you're doing so well?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   I spent three and a half years in Oklahoma where we would play in a tornado.   So it was a good experience there, and I feel like in the wind, you don't have to be perfect, which is what I kind of struggle with.  
I would try and be too perfect sometimes and in the wind, you just play golf, you hit shots and you just try and maneuver it a little bit.   I feel like when it gets windy, you have almost a little more room, so I enjoy it.  
   
 Q.   Last week, Brooks Koepka won on The Challenge Tour; are you roommates?   Rivals?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   We live together in Florida, West Palm.   I wouldn't really call us rivals.   We are really, really good friends.   
It's been a blast living with him and I'm excited for what he's done, and look forward to having him out here week‑to‑week, and couldn't be more happy for him.   
   
 Q.   You've been knocking on the door for a while before Madeira, but what did winning do for your confidence?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   It was nice to just kind of get it out of the way but at the same time, I had only been pro for a little over 12 months, 13, 14 months, so it wasn't like it was a long spell.   
I kept putting myself in good position and in contention, which is my ultimate goal.   I feel like the more you do that, you're going to have more chances at success.   That's what I'm just trying to do.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever worked out how many countries you've played in since you've become pro?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, that's a good question.   Last I heard, it was mid 20s, but I don't know.   
   
 Q.   Not to be disparaging to your countrymen but that's not the usual American way of doing it; can you just say why you've decided to do it that way and why you've decided to kick off your career, global?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, I've had a very good support group with Chubby and my coach, Butch, and my dad.   Those guys have been around the game a long, long time.   If they say this is the right route, then I'm going to listen to them.   
I look at a guy like Adam Scott, somebody I've always looked up to, and he came over to Europe and started off his career, and there's countless amount of guys, top players in the world, who have started over here.   It's just different me being an American and doing it.   I look at those guys' success and the success they are having now and where they are at now on the PGA TOUR; I think that's the right route to go.   
   
 Q.   How do you think it's helped you?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   I think it's made me more of an all‑around player.   You play in different conditions and different courses.   The courses in Spain are different than the courses over here.   And you play more of a global schedule; South Korea, South America or South Africa.   You play all over the world on different types of courses and you become a more all‑around player.  
   
 Q.   Given the win, sorting out your card early, did that change things for you?   Did it take a bit of pressure off?   Did it change your approach to the event since then?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yes and no.   I think it was nice to be able to kind of make my own schedule after that and be able to pick and choose the events that fit my schedule.   I tend to like to go home a little bit and I like to spend some time at home, so makes it a little bit easier.   The win was definitely big in that regard.   
   
 Q.   With the new PGA TOUR qualifying system, do you get a sense from the guys coming up behind you that this will be a path that will be taken more in the coming years?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   It could.   I think they obviously, the PGA TOUR, did their system to where you have to go through the Web.com first, and everybody respects that decision.   
So, I think that you might see some guys come over here and play and go to Asia, as well.   I think any time you can get on a tour where you can try and improve your World Ranking and gain some experience, I think that's the ultimate goal, and see how things go from there.  
   
 Q.   What do you miss most about home when you're out here?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Ice in the drinks probably the most (laughing).   Yeah, probably that.   
   
 Q.   Did you know anything at all about Madeira before you went to play there, and also, how many miles have you clocked?   I presume you're a gold or elite member of many clubs by now?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   I can thank my dad for that one, he's got it all, I just steal his miles.   Yeah, I heard Madeira was a lot of irons, hilly, some tough hills.   I get driver happy and hit it a little more than I probably should have but it was a good week.  
   
 Q.   I understand you go a few years back with Rory, you first met at the World Junior Championships and you've been friends for some time?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, I want to say we played, was it Doral Junior when we were about nine or ten; and then we played a practice round at the Orange Bowl in Miami when we were about 12, 13.   
Yeah, it's hard not to follow his career.   He's been unbelievable and he's a top player in the world now and it's great to see, and it's nice seeing a young guy up there.   It's pretty sweet.   
   
 Q.   Did he have any bearing on your decision to come over and play The European Tour, what he had achieved, and the route he took into the top of the game?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, same route as what Adam Scott did.   Rory did the same thing, start in Europe before heading to the States.   Like I said, there's been a lot of guys who have done it and had great success.   I don't see why it's any different just me being American and doing it.  
   
 Q.   Did he stay at your house at one stage?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   I can't remember that.   I don't know.   
   
 Q.   You've talked about playing in the wind.   What about the exposed nature of this golf course?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, there are some times when it can really gust, especially on the greens, and really having the kind of‑‑ especially lag putting is very difficult.   You can have a downhill putt into the wind and it will obviously be a lot slower.   
You know, I think that's kind of the biggest test out here is on the greens with the wind.   So far I've been able to handle and hopefully I can do it the next few days.   
   
 Q.   What is the most common question the guys back home ask you about life out here?   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Women (laughter) that's probably the common question.   
   
 Q.   What do they ask you about the women?   (Laughter)?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Oh, I don't know.   They are just curious I guess, I don't know.   (Laughter).  
NEIL AHERN:     Thanks for coming, well done, Pete, and good luck on the weekend.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT