PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 8, 2013
Peter Uihlein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Good day today, huh?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah, it was good.   Hit it well, I drove it well.   I was just counting up my scoring clubs to see how I did.   But yeah, seven birdies, clean card.   So I thought it was good.  
   
 Q.   You had a good finish last week over at the European.   Did you feel like something like this was in you this week?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah.   I felt like I've been playing well for a little while.   And you know, it's the sixth week for me and I feel like every week's been good.   It's just a matter of my scoring clubs, taking advantage of those.   
You know, last week I noticed I could have gotten a lot better at them, and worked on them pretty hard here this week.   
   
 Q.   How did the course play today?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   It played a lot easier.   I think the back nine is setup a little bit easier, especially in the morning because we played 10, 11, 12.   By the time we got to 13 it started blowing down, so we skipped 10 and 11 ‑‑ 11 and 12 were almost down wind and then the wind completely switched.   So we didn't play after like 12 into the wind.   And moved the tee up on 15, 16, 18.   I forget.   Somewhere else along the way.   7.   So the tees were up a little bit more today, and in the morning with the greens being as good as they are, you can post low.  
   
 Q.   Anything different in the bag this week?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   No.   No.   I'm not picky.  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts going into tomorrow?   I mean if this lead holds up.   
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah.   I mean it's nice to get two good rounds in, and you know, I had a good experience last week.   I was up in contention, and same thing in Joburg a couple of weeks ago.   It's all about experience, just kind of building and trying to improve.   
You know, having the lead or being around the lead again is great.   It's the way you're going to get more comfortable at it.   The only way you're going to get more comfortable at it is to keep doing it.   So hope I can keep playing well, and I'm excited.  
   
 Q.   I've been going back over your schedule next week.   What would a good finish here do to change that?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   I'm scheduled to go to India next week.   So that'll be a short trek.   Yeah, I don't know.   As of right now I'm scheduled to go there.   And I got two more days, so we'll see how they go.  
   
 Q.   You'd like to be in Tampa, though?  
PETER UIHLEIN:   Yeah.   I mean if things go well, yeah.   I've played Tampa as an amateur, played well.   Played there as an AJGA.   It's one of my favorite golf courses.   I love Innisbrook.   But as of right now I'm scheduled to go to India, so we'll see.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT