MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2011
Peter Uihlein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q. Some general comments about today.   
 PETER UIHLEIN: Geoff played well. Phil played well. He just didn't make any putts and obviously it was a good day.   
  
  Q. Talk about what, I don't know if you ever experienced walking with Phil at the Masters before in terms of all the gallery and that, but what was it like these last two days with all the people that move as you guys are moving along?  
 PETER UIHLEIN: Well Phil's a great guy and a great player and he was fun to be around.   
  
  Q. But what about the experience with the galleries around him? Do you, is that in any way different or an adjustment for you, because I'm sure that doesn't happen very often in the amateur ranks.   
 PETER UIHLEIN: No, the patrons are great. They're very supportive and they're very encouraging, so it was great.  
  
  Q. What's your biggest takeaway from this week for you?  
 PETER UIHLEIN: I got a lot to work on.   
  
  Q. What were your expectations and did you come anywhere close to that?  
 PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah, I was hoping to make the cut and didn't do that, didn't play well. And I didn't hit my irons very good so it was tough to score when you're not hitting your irons very good out here.   
 But I have a lot to work on and it's good. I got some tournaments coming up and I got some things to work on.  
  
  Q. Did the Masters meet your expectations for you in your mind?  
 PETER UIHLEIN: It exceeded them. It's an unbelievable place. This course is special and there's nothing quite like it.  
  
  Q. You want to come back soon?  
 PETER UIHLEIN: Yes, sir.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 PETER UIHLEIN: No, not at all. It's obviously a thrill to be here. It was a lot of fun out there and obviously I didn't play that well, but just to be around was great and everybody is very supportive and the patrons were great.  
  
  Q. If you could pick a highlight from your week what would you pick?  
 PETER UIHLEIN: I think just being here, just obviously that was pretty special and getting to be a part of this is pretty great.   
  
  Q. Was there a Masters moment where reality sunk in, maybe the very first day you got here in the Crow's Nest or anything like that?  
 PETER UIHLEIN: I mean obviously just being here is special. To be a part of this field is obviously pretty amazing and it's just obviously I'm just fortunate to be a part of it.  
  
  Q. Did you feel in a way that it was a different kind of pressure, maybe less pressure than when you're representing your team, your school?  
 PETER UIHLEIN: Boy, yeah. I mean obviously there's pressure.   
  
  Q. You said that you realized that you had some things to work on, was there something specific that wasn't clicking for you?  
 PETER UIHLEIN: My iron play. I just wasn't sharp. You got to be very precise out here with the irons and I just wasn't quite ready for it.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT