DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2018
Peter Uihlein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PETER UIHLEIN: It was one of those things if I didn't get into next week, it wouldn't have been because of lack of effort this week or today's round, it would have been playing more of a schedule.  I don't think I played enough when I needed to.  After Memphis I didn't play again until Wyndham, other than the majors.  I think that may have been a bit more of a mistake on my part.  I'm feel like I got it done this week, and I put forth a pretty good effort.   
 Q.  At what point did you realize you needed to put your foot down?  
PETER UIHLEIN: I told my caddie, we were on 15 and I asked him what do you think?  And he said 9, I thought 10.  I figured we needed a couple more birdies.   
I played 16, 17 and 18 great all week, other than one of the days I bogeyed 18.  I think I birdied 16 twice and -- 16 three times, 17 three times.  But so far I knew I had a chance.   
 Q.  Did you and Keith have any kind of conversations out there?  
PETER UIHLEIN: No, I think we both knew where we were at.  I think when he bogeyed 14, I bogeyed 14, as well, I think we both kind of had an idea that we needed to make some birdies coming down the stretch.  And he made two great swings on 18.   
 Q.  When you started the year did you have a goal in mind, whether it be this week, next week, Tour Champ?  
PETER UIHLEIN: My goals may have been a little bit different.  I think it was more getting used to playing the PGA Tour, as well as sprinkling some in Europe.  For me it was always trying to play courses I hadn't seen before, so I kind of had an idea next year on where I wanted to go and where I wanted to play.  I didn't play some places I played before that I played well at.  And I played some courses that I hadn't seen that I know before I go back.  So it was nice to kind of see that for sure.  And get an idea for next year.   
 Q.  I know it was relative pressure compared to coming down the stretch trying to win a tournament.  When you close like that with something on the line, anything, how much confidence do you take from that?  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah, I was pretty amped up.  I was trying to take -- I was trying to take ten yards off, eight yards off every shot.  You feel the adrenaline.  The drive on 18 was pretty good, just kind of caught the rough.  And my third shot definitely built some confidence there.  I made a lot of birdies, I think I was told I made 24 or 25, something like that.  So I made a lot.  That's always nice.   
 Q.  How many years did you play in Europe?  
PETER UIHLEIN: I'm still technically a member, this will be my fourth year on the European Tour.   
 Q.  Did you and Brooks Koepka go at the same time?  
PETER UIHLEIN: I was there probably six, seven months before.   
 Q.  What does it mean to play well here?  
PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah, it was awesome.  I played well.  I can't tell you how many times Boston accents was great.  Everybody was very knowledgeable.  It was fantastic.  The support was amazing and I look forward to coming back.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
PETER UIHLEIN: I guess in golf terms I'm more of a hybrid, I guess.  I was born and raised here.  So I've lived in Florida longer, but this is where I come up in summer.   
 Q.  You're the Northeast Amateur champion, too.  A kid tied your record this year.  
PETER UIHLEIN: Nice.   
 Q.  How big a crowd did you have behind you?  
PETER UIHLEIN: I mean -- I think the crowds were out in front of me (laughter.)  So it was great.  There were funny slogans or sayings out there that were petty nice.  Boston fans never disappoint you.   
 Q.  Personally, like friends, family, that kind of stuff?  
PETER UIHLEIN: I had a decent amount.  I had a decent amount of turn out.   
 Q.  What was the most fun you heard?  
PETER UIHLEIN: Somebody was streaming "flip the pancake."  That was pretty good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT