U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 28, 2010
Peter Uihlein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Like to welcome the first of our 2010 U.S. Amateur finalist, Peter Uihlein. Tell us what that means to you, U.S. Amateur finalist.   
 PETER UIHLEIN: It's pretty cool. Hasn't really settled in, but to be able to play in this year's Open at Congressional and then the Masters and hopefully win tomorrow and play in the British Open, that would be pretty cool. It definitely hasn't sunk in yet, but hopefully it will tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You have a little bit more zest in your step today as opposed to yesterday, even though you still won both matches. Talk about it psychologically. You were playing somebody you didn't know much about as opposed to one of your teammates yesterday?  
 PETER UIHLEIN: Patrick played really well this week. He qualified second, I believe. I just happened to make a few more putts than him today. It was a good match. He was a great kid, and I had a good time, but playing with Hoff yesterday, it's always difficult. It's hard to play a friend, and I'm just fortunate enough to be sitting here.  
  
  Q. What do you do this afternoon now to prepare?   
 PETER UIHLEIN: I'm going to probably go practice a little bit, hit some balls. Probably just go back and nap. I've been up a little early, and now tomorrow at 7:00 is going to be early as well. So I'll just relax and rest and eat and just call it an afternoon.  
  
  Q. Speaking of which, you're going to go nap, but this course was obviously demanding. Was it physically demanding or psychologically demanding?   
 PETER UIHLEIN: It's both. You know, it's hard. It's just some holes where they put the pins, it's just hard. You feel like you hit a great shot into the green, and you're 40 feet or off the green. What can you do? It's just that difficult. You keep telling yourself that you did the best you can, and you just tried to execute and sometimes it doesn't work out, and it's tough. 7,700 yards I believe with some sand dunes . So it's a little slower on your feet, but it's awesome.  
  
  Q. Good players in deference to their opponents say I just made a few more putts than he did. But obviously you probably hit the ball probably closer to the hole where you made better iron shots. But give us an assessment of why you made a few more putts?   
 PETER UIHLEIN: I think I did just make a few more putts, because starting off I pretty much stole a couple holes early. I made a good probably 12-footer on 2 to tie. A 20-footer on 3 to tie. 6-footer on 4 to tie. 15-footer on 5 to tie.   
 So I was filling up the cup early. I literally just made a couple more putts than him to start off and I think that was the difference.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 PETER UIHLEIN: No, no, not at all.  
  
  Q. What do you remember about your match yesterday?   
 PETER UIHLEIN: It was fun. A really good time. I mean, best of all we were under par. He had just come out. He struggled during the qualifying rounds or the first three rounds, and then he came out and blitzed me. We had a good time, but, yeah, I made some putts to tie the hole. He was like what are you doing? Stop making birdie. And he was making them early. I have a good relationship with David. I like David a lot. I think tomorrow will be a lot of fun.  
  
  Q. Have you played with him in competitions previously, too?   
 PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah, he's beaten me twice at the U.S. Junior in '05, maybe, at Longmeadow up in Massachusetts he beat me in the round of 16s. Then he beat me at Nationals this year. Yeah, I'm 0 for 2.  
  
  Q. I can't imagine a more perfect gift to yourself than winning this tomorrow, right?   
 PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah, that would be picture perfect, I guess. No better way to script it, but I've still got to go out and play well. David's playing great, and he's won the last two tournaments, and he's just beaten Benny. So tomorrow will be a good test.  
  
  Q. This continues your good run in the Pacific Northwest, right?   
 PETER UIHLEIN: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Is there anymore to it than we talked about yesterday?   
 PETER UIHLEIN: No, it's just I don't know. Maybe it's a coincidence. It just happens to be what it is, but the courses I feel really set up well for my game. It's just the way it is.  
  
  Q. Does your game plan at all change based on what you know about David?   
 PETER UIHLEIN: No, not at all. I knew Hoff pretty well too, so I'm just going to try to go out and play my game. Just keep control in the match.  
  
  Q. How much of your finish last year at this tournament influenced your advanced planning for this one? Getting out here early, seeing a new golf course, I'm sure that had an influence on you. Can you talk about what you had in mind seeing this thing and planning for it?   
 PETER UIHLEIN: I did the same thing last year at Southern because it was only an hour and ten minute drive from campus. So I did the same thing out there and prepared for it. You know, I did the same thing for this just trying to come out here a couple days and get used to the course, get used to the surroundings and just try to work that into my game plan in the previous weeks leading up to it.   
 It's worked so far, so we'll see how it goes tomorrow.   
 THE MODERATOR: Congratulations.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT