BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 19, 2019
David Bailey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Boston College - 45, North Carolina State - 24
Q. David, how did you break out of that scrum and go for 54 yards? You were surrounded by white jerseys.
DAVID BAILEY: I mean, the line, they kept blocking and moving and everything, and I ended up finding a little hole, slipping through, and I just burst through there. But the line up front, they kept moving. Moved to the second level. Started up front with the second level and kept blocking their butts off. With them, it made me burst however many yards it was.
Q. So beginning of the week, (inaudible) was like, yeah, yeah, we know A.J., but this David Bailey guy, he's a rock or whatever. Is it starting to feel like, oh, man, defenses are starting to pay attention to me now. Or do you still feel like, I still got to let them know who I am.
DAVID BAILEY: I feel like always, every time I go on the field, I feel like I have a point to prove. I always tell myself I'm the best player on the field, just like anyone else would. Every week, it don't matter what game it is and how many things I did, I just always go out there and feel like I have a point to prove. Just play my game every time and just keep rolling.
Q. David, talk a little bit about your style versus A.J.'s. I think you guys complement each other very well. Talk a little bit about that, but also talk a little bit about your relationship with A.J. A.J. talked about that with us, but I want to get your side in terms of your relationship with him and how you feed off each other.
DAVID BAILEY: Our style of run game, it's pretty the same. I would say he's faster than me. I'm going to give him that. I ain't going to say way faster, but he's faster than me, though. But I feel like we have a stiff-arm and a spin move. He probably have a better spin move than me. Other than that, we're pretty similar to each other.
But the relationship, I couldn't explain it. He's been a big brother to me when I came in here. He always took me under his wing from my freshman year, taught me everything. We would always go to the side. In meetings, he'd teach me the concept of every play, run play, pass protection. Always told me trust my eyes, him and Coach White and also the other running backs. Our relationship is like a big brother, a family member, and I love him. With us two, it's a great relationship.
Q. David, you just said he's faster, but are you going to remind him about your breakaway speed on those two long runs?
DAVID BAILEY: I've been telling him about Louisville -- actually, my freshman year, he said I have no breakaway speed. I said, on the field, I usually don't get caught, but I had to tell him about my breakaway speed. In the Louisville game, he actually seen it. He said, you got a little bit of speed, but I didn't tell him about my breakaway speed, though.
Q. A.J., I guess, two touchdowns and 75 yards away from setting school records. Those are pretty special records at a school that has such a great history of running backs. Are you aware of not only A.J.'s being on the precipice of some great history, but the tradition of running backs here at BC?
DAVID BAILEY: Oh, yeah. During recruiting, that's one thing I looked at is the offensive line and like our offensive style because we have a run heavy offense, and a bunch of great backs came through here and set a bunch of records and everything. It's just a blessing to be at a school where you run the ball, and they always take care of their running backs and just coming from behind a bunch of legends.
A.J., he's really close to the record and everything. I'm happy for him and everything, but we got to keep focusing on it, keep winning, and keep driving. But I'm happy for him.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT