NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 18, 2016
Bryce Meredith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I'd like you to make just a brief opening statement about your match.
BRYCE MEREDITH: Yeah, it was a fun match.  You know, Coach said before, win every position, and I think that's what I did.  I got my takedown, I got my escape, did some righting, and yeah, won the match.
Q. The fact that this afternoon in the semifinals, the way that match ended, you could have gone for escape, instead you went for reversal and got a pin.  Also talk about your decision to leave NC State to go back home.
BRYCE MEREDITH: Yeah, so a lot of decisions.  Yeah, in the quarterfinal match, I just was wrestling, and I was a little angered, actually, that I got taken down.  And I was like, oh, I'm not losing today.  So I kind of was blacked out I would almost say.  And I went --and I was going, and I knew I could get that switch because I could just feel he was vulnerable for it.  So I got to my switch and then I locked the cradle up, and I thought I was going to get two, but they didn't give it to me.  So I was like, well, let's go get two, and then I got two plus two.
Q. And the decision to go back --
BRYCE MEREDITH: Yeah, it's a tough call, transferring.  It's a hard thing to do.  It's hard to go ask your coach who you look up to and respect and so grateful for them bringing you into their program, to leave.  I finally went in, and I said, Coach, I want to go back home.  I want to go wrestle for the University of Wyoming.  It was really easy.  All the coaches, both programs, treated me how I'd love to be treated, and it was just awesome.  Now I'm back home with my family, my friends, and happy as can be.
Q. I just realized you went from a 6'4" former Oklahoma State wrestler to another 6'4" Oklahoma State wrestler.
BRYCE MEREDITH: Yeah, basketball players.
Q. The fact that they do have both Oklahoma State backgrounds, very similar backgrounds, did that have something to do with you wanting to go back?
BRYCE MEREDITH: No.  I mean, I don't really look at what they did too much in college.  I look at them as leaders now and how they coach.  I knew that both teams were going in the right direction.
Q. We talked quite a bit in interviews, and I've watched the way you've wrestled out here, and you've seemed very relaxed and confident.  Where does that come from?  People are kind of surprised at how well you've been able to step up this tournament.  Coming in, is that kind of what you thought would happen?
BRYCE MEREDITH: Yeah.  I mean, obviously, it's still -- like, I didn't know I was going to be in the finals.  But in my heart, I wanted to be here, and I know that I've worked hard.  And when you train as hard as I do with the coaches I do and the partners I have, confidence is easy.  I truly believe I'm one of the best in the country, and once you can get to that mindset and really just have no fear, I'm just having fun out here.  I'm just scrapping.  I'm just having a good time.
Q. You guys have not had a finalist in 20 years.
BRYCE MEREDITH: Yeah, I guess.
Q. Was it Reese Andy?  Was that your last finalist?  I guess the question is what's it like to be in the finals and what's it like to be in the ultimate parity weight where anybody could have won it.  And coming in as a 14 seed -- Brewer did it as a 13 seed -- is there any doubt in your mind you can't win tomorrow?
BRYCE MEREDITH: No, no doubt in my mind at all tomorrow.  I'm not really even sure who I have tomorrow.
Q. Heil.
BRYCE MEREDITH: Thanks.  Everybody in the country has known that this weight could be blown wide open by anybody, and being put at the 14 seed, I wasn't worried about it.  I knew I was going to get there really no matter where I was at in the bracket.  I knew I could beat anybody at any given moment.  Now I'm in the finals, and it feels good.  It feels everything that you would ever expect.  It gives you goosebumps.  I would advise all the little kids to work real hard so they can feel this feeling.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT