TARGET WORLD CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY WILLIAMS
December 8, 2005
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Frustrating to go out there and shoot even par?
TIGER WOODS:  I had my opportunities to make some birdies, especially on 11 for eagle.  I just missed putts.  My time I built momentum I'd either lose it or I'd build it and I couldn't make the putt.
Q.  Yesterday you said the course was playing difficult, it's dry and the rough is up.  Did you everyone feel that way?
TIGER WOODS:  Everyone except for Michael.  He's played this golf course like no one I've ever seen.  This is a golf course when you get it going, you get it on the greens, you feel like the ball funnels toward the holes.  The par 5s are all reachable.  You can make some eagles and definitely some birdies.
Q.  Did you feel good on the putting green today?  You said you didn't feel comfortable out there yesterday.
TIGER WOODS:  I really didn't.  My speed was good all day, I just couldn't play the way I know I can.
Q.  Your manager said you hit it some interesting places today.
TIGER WOODS:  I did.  Starting out, I did.  And then the last hole, right in the middle of the fairway, easy shot but hit it long and left instead of short and right.  Very frustrating.
Q.  I know you're a big Lakers fan.  Did the Lakers go your way today?
TIGER WOODS:  It wasn't intentional, but that's just the way it goes.
Q.  You know Clarkie's situation at home.  He's playing well here.  He says this is his release, his safety place.
TIGER WOODS:  Of course, any time you have problems off the golf course, sometimes you find sanctuary on it and then you get away, and then it hits you once you step off.  Sometimes you just leave yourself on the golf course and have four or five hours in the sanctuary.  What he's going through is not something you wish on anybody.

Last week he had a great week in South Africa.  That was a big moment for him.
Q.  How about David Toms' first round today since his surgery?
TIGER WOODS:  We're all happy just to have DT here.  He wasn't looking too good at the Presidents Cup, but he's doing great now.
Q.  They've changed Augusta again.  Does that take care of you?  Have you talked about that at all, had any reaction to the lengthening of the golf course?
TIGER WOODS:  They're lengthening the golf course every other year it seems like.  I can understand why they lengthen it.  Also, then again, they want us to hit the same clubs that we used to hit to the holes.  Then if that's the case, make the greens as slow as they used to be.  The greens are running 12 and 13.  They never ran 12 or 13 back in the '60s, '70s, '80s.  It just wasn't that way.  But hey, we've all got to play it, that's the thing.

Since 2002 when they made the big change, we have yet to see it dry for a tournament.  We played the practice rounds this year with it lightning and then all of a sudden it dumped rain again.  It'll be interesting to see if we can break par if it stays dry the entire week.
Q.  Do you think that's what they want?  Are they in the business of protecting par now?
TIGER WOODS:  I don't think so, no.  They're actually interested in making not just the greens a challenge at Augusta but overall play.  Now you have to position your drive, drive it out there with some length, and they brought that back into the game.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT