HSBC CHAMPIONS TOURNAMENT
November 13, 2005
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Can you gives us your assessment of the final round?
TIGER WOODS:  David got off to a wonderful start, hit birdies on two and three. I was four back there and he made bogeys on eight and nine. On 10, I hit the best putt I hit in all day and it doesn't go in and his goes in and that's a big swing there.

I hit a good shot there on 12 and he completely mishit it. Looks like it was going into the bunker but somehow got over the bunker and onto the green and makes the putt for birdie. Those two holes were terrible holes, to try and keep the momentum going. After he made bogeys on eight and nine, I had all the momentum going then
Q.  He has improved, hasn't he?
TIGER WOODS:  He has worked hard; that's what happens when he works hard.
Q. Did you feel like your A game wasn't quite there this week?
TIGER WOODS:  It wasn't easy to putt this week. We just tried not to leave yourself any short ones. I didn't do that this week. The short ones were really tough.
Q.  All over on 16 when you hit the hazard?
TIGER WOODS:  I had to go for it and try to go for birdie or best part, eagle. I went for it back there, and he's puts the ball on the green on 17 and it was kind of over then. Even if I made birdie, eagle, he could still have made two pars and it would have still been over.
Q.  Two seconds?
TIGER WOODS:  Two seconds in my last two weeks. They are good weeks, I've made a lot of progress. Some wonderfully positive things have happened. Second doesn't always feel good as first, that's for sure. I've got four more tournaments to go.
Q.  On Darren Clarke's win in Japan today?
TIGER WOODS:  He's one of my strongest friends. It's good for him. The things that he's had to deal with. I feel so sorry for him. I can relate a little bit because of what happened to my father. To go through things like that, I can't imagine the things that he has to deal with.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT