BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 8, 2018
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tiger, just get some comments on your round, if we can.
TIGER WOODS: Today was one of those days where it was really -- it was frustrating because I hit the ball well enough to shoot a low score and I got off to a quick start, birdieing the first two, and Joey was tripping in my ear to stay patient out there because I was getting a little hot.
I was looking up on the board and everyone seemed like they were 3-under through 8, 5-under through 9.  I was only 2-under par.  I wasn't doing much.
Q. Given the weather forecast for the next 48 hours, did you feel like this -- this would almost be the final round or is that how --
TIGER WOODS: Naw, I don't think they would do that, you know, given the fact that we have an off week.  It will be curious.  I think if we do play, the problem might be ball in hand everywhere through the entire -- through the green.  That would be different.  I think I've only done that once in my career.  It will be interesting if we even get a chance to play.
Q. (Inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS: That was very articulate.
Q. Are you confident there's another 62 in the bag with these conditions?
TIGER WOODS: I felt like -- you know, because I'm now what, 5 back, maybe 6 by the end of the day, that I'm going to have to shoot one of those 61s or 62s just to have a chance.  The golf course is soft.  Everyone is making birdies.  You can be aggressive.  I got to take a run at it, whether it's tomorrow or Monday.
Q. Tiger, is there any frustration that the course is playing this easy, I mean it's not something that you would prefer?
TIGER WOODS: At the beginning of the week after we played it on 9 on Tuesday, we took a look at it and we thought that it would be near 20 then and it's gotten even softer since then and now with the ball in hand, you drive it halfway decent in the fairway and you're throwing darts at the flag.
There's really no fear.  And so, yeah, I'm sure the mean today is probably what, 67 or maybe somewhere around there, maybe a little bit lower than that.
Q. What were you doing on the putting green?
TIGER WOODS: I'm just doing drills.  I was just trying to make sure that I felt comfortable and solid and I was hitting the putts square.  Most of the time I do drills like that, it's just to hit the putt solid and just making sure I did that so I built enough reps in I don't have to think, I can go ahead and hit it and that's one of the reasons why I do the drills that I do beforehand, before every round.  Seems like everybody does that now.  Spend a little time drilling it so every putt you hit flush.
Q. How many putts you hit today, how frustrating was it getting up there?
TIGER WOODS: Probably like at least five, six that I hit that I thought about stepping and maybe I should have jinxed it actually go in the hole.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT