THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 4, 2005
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Once again, you started off great and then you had to birdie the last just to play those last 13 holes even par.
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, again, I have yet to take care of the par 5s.  I've played the par 5s at even par, have yet to make a birdie.  9, I hit a good drive and didn't have much of a shot, had an easy up and down, didn't get that up and down.  15, I hit a drive through the fairway but still had an angle and a shot and put myself in the one place you can't, left of the hole.  Again, put myself out of position again.

It's been frustrating because if I take care of the par 5s I would be I would think at the top of the board.
Q.  How much fun was it playing with Charles?
TIGER WOODS:  It was great.  He's one of my best friends.  I go out there with Chuck and laugh and rib each other and it's been a lot of fun.
Q.  Any side bets?
TIGER WOODS:  No side betting but a lot of ribbing.
Q.  That's what you get for hitting it 380 on No. 9?
TIGER WOODS:  Is that what it was?  It was a good drive.
Q.  You're supposed to be screaming "bite" when you hit it down the middle of the fairway (laughter).
TIGER WOODS:  That's just kind of how it's been.  That's the way it goes.  At least I hit a good drive there.  I was committed to what I was doing and I hit it where I was supposed to hit it.  It was frustrating today and yesterday because when I didn't have the commitment where I needed to have it, I tried to slow down and hit the driver softer and shorter, I would hit some of my worst tee shots.  It's just a matter of going out there and being committed to what I was doing.
Q.  Kind of a lighter moment, they have those pre recorded tips with Hank and he was showing how to hit a low punch shot under the trees, which at that moment is exactly about where you were.  It's obviously been a little bit more interesting at times for you this year based on where the driver is going.
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I mean, it's
Q.  It's been a lot of hard work.
TIGER WOODS:  It's been a lot of hard work, but I've never hit the ball this far, either.  Your margin or error becomes so much smaller.  Charles and I were joking, if you took some of my lines, Fred Funk would have been in the fairway, but you add 30, 40 and 50 yards to it, you're out of the fairway, out of position.  It becomes an advantage, yes, because if you can't hit the ball in the fairway you're going to have wedges in your hand, but if you don't you're going to be    exactly.  It's a double edged sword.
Q.  Pretty good round considering you were behind a tree, behind a bush half the time.  Is it fair to say if you put the ball in the fairway tomorrow and take care of the par 5s you can run away with this thing?
TIGER WOODS:  Bart is playing beautiful and Goose is always steady, and it's going to be tough this weekend.  The wind is going to be blowing the next couple days, so I just need to go out there and take care of my own business and see what I can do.
Q.  Was the ball on 14 in that tent?
TIGER WOODS:  It was in the tent, yeah.  I don't know how it got there.
Q.  And then you had to kind of drop around the
TIGER WOODS:  It was line of sight, so it was one plus one, drop within the second one.
Q.  Did you get a Fudgesickle out of it?
TIGER WOODS:  I was thinking about opening it to see what was inside (laughter).
Q.  12 and 13 making birdies, coming up with bogeys around 10 and 11, you started looking focused?
TIGER WOODS:  I started to get it back.  I figured if I could get back to where I was, which is at 7, I was 3 under and I kind of lost it, made three bogies, and I figured if I could get back to that number somehow, made those two quick birdies and I was counting on a birdie on 15, and I messed that up.  Actually I was very lucky and fortunate to end up where I did because I made a bomb there on 17 for par and made a good 2 on the last.
Q.  You had trouble on the par 3s all day until 18 which was the best tee shot of the week so far?
TIGER WOODS:  It was one of the best iron shots I've hit all week, just the feeling of it, just a nice high cut 3 iron felt really good.
Q.  Were you stuck on the par 5s at Disney, too?
TIGER WOODS:  Played them 1 under, yeah, two days, MC Hammer.
Q.  So to be where you are without the par 5 scoring, does that almost give you hope for the weekend?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, I should be taking care of those par 5s better, especially 15.  15 is a no brainer there.  It's shorter than some of the par 4s we have out here.  I just need to take care of those par 5s and clean up my round some other places, too.
Q.  Putting it pretty good, though.
TIGER WOODS:  I am.  I lost it a little bit in the middle of the round.  I couldn't quite see my lines.  I could read it right but I couldn't get over there and see it.  I found something on the par 3, No. 11, with my right arm and I poured it in on 12 and another one on 13 and obviously 17 and 18.
Q.  Big save on 17.
TIGER WOODS:  That was huge because Goosen and Bart are playing great, they're at 10, and if I make bogey there and they make one more birdie coming in, all of a sudden that gap becomes 5.
Q.  Which was the toughest creative second shot, 17 or 14, from the tent or from
TIGER WOODS:  No, 14 was a pretty easy shot.  I was on top of a rock, that was the only thing.  I was just trying to pick it somehow, but I actually caught the rock.  It was sitting just behind my ball, and if I came in steep enough, I would be fine.  It was only like a 60 degree sand wedge, so it wasn't that hard.

17 I was just trying to make sure I just didn't leave it short, and don't hit the ball in the right bunker.  If you do, just miss it long because then I have the angle.  I thought I actually hit it perfect where it might stay on the green.  As it was rolling up there I thought it might catch Charles' ball, which would have been a bonus, but I flubbed my chip and made a putt.
Q.  How was the lie back there?
TIGER WOODS:  It was a little bit of a clump behind it but I didn't put enough speed into it.  I came in too slow and must have had it.  I needed to put some more speed in that shot.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  Well, I'm focusing on my foundation right now with our learning center and trying to help kids, not necessarily in golf but just in life and academics.  That's been my focus.  If we produce golfers, that's fine, but I want to produce good citizens and citizens that will help and give back.  I understand where they're coming from, but there's only so much time and focus you can delegate, and right now that's my focus, and one day I can extrapolate and move on from there.
Q.  If I can look forward to the FedEx thing in 2007, can you see yourself playing ten more events a year?
TIGER WOODS:  How many?
Q.  Ten more events a year or five more events a year just to qualify for that.
TIGER WOODS:  Out of 37 weeks?  I don't know if my body could hold up over that, plus I've never played more than 21 in one season.  This ties the most I've played in a season.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT