WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 6, 2005
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Are you surprised nobody went lower?
TIGER WOODS:  Not really, not with the    I mean, look at the pin sheet and look at some of these pins.  They're a little difficult to get at.  If you drive it on the fairway you can have the opportunity to be aggressive, but still, they've done a wonderful job of tucking the flags.
Q.  Was that the mean defense of the course?
TIGER WOODS:  That and the rough.  The fairways are so fast a lot of the guys are driving the ball through the fairways, through the doglegs, and you're having to pick some pretty aggressive lines on certain shots to keep the ball in the fairway, and if you miss your target, I mean, you're going to pay the price.
Q.  How were you from the tee today?
TIGER WOODS:  I did all right.  I hit a couple shots to the right which I wasn't pleased about.  Also I hit some really good ones that landed in the fairway and went right on through.  Kind of indicative of how the golf course is playing.  It's playing fast, and you've got to make sure you shape your shots.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  It was nothing starting out and then it started picking up a little bit.  It's still not very heavy at all.  The air is still pretty warm out here, so the ball is still flying.  It's going a lot further today than it did in the practice rounds.
Q.  What's your opinion on 18?  Is it the toughest hole on the course?
TIGER WOODS:  It's certainly different.  You know, it's one of those holes if the green was more to the right, I think it would be just a great hole.  But because you've got to carry so much in the air, I don't see it being a great hole.  It's a tough hole, but it forces you to shape a shot.
Q.  What did you think of the crowd?
TIGER WOODS:  Fantastic.  This is like a home event for me.  You know, this is like    like a lot of friends out here watching me play, and it was pretty special.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  I was standing on the green watching.  We had a logjam so guys were teeing off on 8, so we decided to watch.
Q.  8 or 7?
TIGER WOODS:  7.
Q.  Do you think you will pull out driver on that?
TIGER WOODS:  I hit iron.  My iron game was so good today that I felt very good with all my wedges.  I hit every wedge inside ten feet.  It made no sense for me to go for it today.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  The first time I've seen him lose his balance on a shot.  If you look at how hard he swings and how long his golf swing is, he's always on perfect balance.  You can tell that one he let it go.
Q.  Might you try that this week?
TIGER WOODS:  If the tee was up a little more and I still had that same help and the pin was on the right, I might have taken a run at it.  If I had driven that ball through the fairway in the left rough I'd have no shot to that flag.  But if the pin was on the right hand side, yeah, I would have taken a run at it.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  I'm pleased with it.  I'm still not where I need to be, but then again, it's a lot better than I was.
Q.  Will you stay with the approach you went with today or do you think you'll make many changes?
TIGER WOODS:  It's really hard to change a game plan around here.  There are a couple    the shorter par 4s you can probably take a run at.  But you need to have the right wind.  Today we didn't have the right wind, so it made no sense to take a run at it.
Q.  Do you have a number in mind of what you wanted to shoot today or where you were hoping to place yourself?
TIGER WOODS:  If I shot something between 2 and 4 under par, I thought it would be pretty good, somewhere in that realm I think would be just a nice score to start off the week.  Especially looking at the pin locations and how tucked they were, I thought that would be a pretty good score.
Q.  Can they make the pins tougher?
TIGER WOODS:  They will.  They'll have some tougher pins.  They'll put them on some of the back corners up and over the mounds.  But for the first day they did a pretty good job setting up the golf course.
Q.  Did you actually see your old Stanford teammates out there?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I could see them.  My roommates actually, they were out there.
Q.  Are the greens any different than the practice rounds?
TIGER WOODS:  A little bit more speed.  They didn't have as much dew on the greens.  But then again, I did play my practice rounds a little early, so there was some dew on the greens and it didn't come off until midway through the back nine, but it did play the same speed until about midway through the back nine.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT