DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2005
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Overall?
TIGER WOODS:  I'm done.  (Laughing).  I'm done.  No, it was a frustrating last three days.  I didn't have it, I didn't play particularly well, and consequently I was nowhere in contention.
Q.  Was that first hole indicative of
TIGER WOODS:  It was a very easy shot and I hit it fat.  I compounded my problem from there.

So I just hit a bad shot at an absolute wrong time and I kept hitting bad shots after that.
Q.  Quickest double you've ever made?
TIGER WOODS:  No.  I've made faster.
Q.  How disappointing is this, knowing this goes to your foundation, not to win?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, I haven't won it before.  I've come close, but then again this is a great event.  We have some great, great guys up atop of that board.  People from Rhode Island here want Billy to do well.  It will be exciting to see what happens, because there are a bunch of guy who is have a chance.  Anything can happen.  Anybody who is 6  or 7 under par can win this tournament, so we'll see what happens.
Q.  A lot of the guys at top are not long hitters.
TIGER WOODS:  Fairways are running this week and there's really no rough out there, so any ball that lies in the fairway, it's getting down there and the greens are firming up so you have to be in the fairway.  Even though there's no rough you can't play in the rough and expect to get the ball close.  You have to hit the ball in the fairway and guys who are able to get the ball running can get the ball down there.  You've got reasonable irons into the greens.  If you've got anywhere between 7 iron on down, you can get pretty aggressive.

I hit plenty of fairways.  I just didn't hit any balls close from there and when I did hit it close, I didn't make a putt.  So I just didn't really get anything to go in.
Q.  What happened at the first tee, you hit that pretty close?
TIGER WOODS:  My cut driver was taking some time.  Every speed bump, he slowed down to an absolute stop and looked around, made sure everything was okay and then kind of go over.  We're telling him, hurry up, don't worry about it and he slows down every time.
Q.  What are you going to do between now and the Presidents Cup?
TIGER WOODS:  I'm going on vacation.  I'm going on my boat, so I'm getting out of here.  I've had a long summer, haven't taken any time off, so I'm really looking forward to this break.
Q.  Just a couple of off days or anything you can particularly work on?
TIGER WOODS:  No.  You know what, to be honest with you I really don't care right now.  I'm done.  I've had a very long summer.  I haven't taken hardly any days off this summer, so it will be nice to actually get some time off and away from the game and let my mind and body just kind of heal.
Q.  Can you talk about the gallery out there this weekend?
TIGER WOODS:  Absolutely incredible.  They have been into it.  The fans have come out and supported the event the last three years.  We couldn't ask for a better crowd, a better atmosphere.  It's always fun to play in front of people this enthusiastic.  It makes you get people fired up out there.
Q.  Is that the most pressure you felt last time at the Presidents Cup?
TIGER WOODS:  Probably, yeah.  I mean, more so than any major championship, because if I blow a major, who cares; it's just me.

If I miss that putt, I let down 11 other guys and a captain, and it's a much bigger deal you let down teammates than you do yourself.
Q.  What do you think of when you think back, especially the last two holes, is there any image that jumps out at you?
TIGER WOODS:  I know that was probably one of the best, if not the best putt, I've ever made.  With all of the circumstances, low light, you couldn't really see anything, you were there, you couldn't see much, downhill, downgrain, left to right, swale, 12 footer, with everything on the line and I knocked it in somehow.
Q.  Did you see some of the colors to the side; could you see blue, could you see red?
TIGER WOODS:  I saw everybody there and kept looking in the opposite direction just so I didn't have to    it was a pressure putt as it is.  You don't want to know all of your teammates are over there looking at you hoping you make the putt.  You don't want to let them all down.
Q.  When you've been in a situation like that, individual play, is there ever a part of you that hopes the guy you're playing misses and was it different with the beg fella this time?
TIGER WOODS:  I really wanted Ernie to make that putt because we didn't want to win that way.  We didn't think we should go in a playoff to begin with.  So to have it three holes and then have low light like that, none of us on our team want to see Ernie miss that putt.  That's obviously very rare when you get into team format but that was one of those times.
Q.  How many guys on your team do you think would have wanted to be in your position?
TIGER WOODS:  Probably not many.  I didn't want to be there.  (Laughter).
Q.  Was there ever a point or moment or moments during the course of the last couple of days where you thought things would come together for you?
TIGER WOODS:  No.  No.  Not once.  (Laughing).  I battled on the range, battled on the course and I did that for three straight days.  So answer to your question is no.  I did hit it a little better on the range today and I went on the golf course feeling a little bit better, but then I go ahead and make a quick 6 on the first hole.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT