BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 6, 2018
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Biggest take away today?  
TIGER WOODS: Biggest take away?  Made some putts.  Got off to a better start than I have most of the season and as of right now I'm 1 back.  So just the way it goes.   
 Q.  When you putt so well with the Scotty Cameron, does it make you wonder why you didn't go back to it sooner?  
TIGER WOODS: I've been monkeying around with it back home and in the backyard.  It never felt right.  It feels good, you know.  I know I explained to Robert over there, I know the release point and I know how it swings and my body morphed into a position where it understands where it needs to be to release the putter.   
I've hit hundreds of millions of putts.  I've had it since '99.  I've hit putts with it.  I just -- my body just remembers it.  When I go away from it -- and, you know, when I was using the Nike putter I always bring it out and hit putts with it.  Sometimes it works but it just feels very familiar to me.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
TIGER WOODS: I hit 230 and hit 3-iron up in the air.  Good one.   
 Q.  What is it like knowing you shoot 62 and look up on the leaderboard and seeing Rory going ahead of you?  
TIGER WOODS: You definitely could do it today.  The fairways are ample wide and the greens are soft and so -- and the positives right now, we're driving it down there anywhere between 310 and 340 and so it's really not that long a golf course right now.  Lot of wedges and you have to hit your wedges well, get your distance.   
Give yourself at least 10, 12 looks at putts and you get on the hot run like I did, I'm sure what Rory is doing right now you can do it.   
 Q.  What's the longest iron into a par 4?  
TIGER WOODS: Probably 9-iron.   
It's so hot and the ball is going forever and so it's just really not playing its yardage.  Every hole is 455 to 480 but that's just driver and wedge under these conditions right now.  That's going to change, the rain comes in and the ball is not rolling, not flying as far but as of right now it's pretty short.   
 Q.  Does the driver feel good again?  
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, it does.  As you guys know, I have weak lofts in my irons, probably from the old school days and there's no reason why I shouldn't have done it with the driver.  This entire year though it's been a moving target because my body has changed so much since the beginning of the year.  I didn't know what I could do.   
My speed, my rotation, so many different things that have evolved throughout the year and have gotten better and so we've decided to go with more loft and go back to a shaft that I won with a lot and so, again, the feel in my hands oh, that's a familiar feel, that's a familiar flex point, that's a familiar vibration of the shaft.  Those are all things that I used to feel and but now I think I'm in position I can do it again.   
 Q.  Was there any disappointment on your second 9 after that hot start?  
TIGER WOODS: Just trying to make birdies.  I gave myself good looks.  I hit good putts.  They just didn't go in, which is fine.  I can accept that, I hit putts on my line, and drives me crazy when I wasn't doing that, wasn't hitting it on my lines but today I did.   
 Q.  The long wait on 8 have any effect on you?  
TIGER WOODS: No.  I just didn't -- I was caught between clubs, 4 and 5.  I tried to hit a soft 4 and pulled it.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
TIGER WOODS: Today?  It was four.   
 Q.  Use them all?  
TIGER WOODS: Yeah.   
 Q.  What's the one thing in your game you still fell like you need to work on?  
TIGER WOODS: Everything.  Try to keep everything sharp.  More than anything right now just make sure I get enough rest and recovery time.   
 Q.  Does the heat help or make it harder?  
TIGER WOODS: It's hard for me because I lose so much weight out here.  I don't eat enough calories because -- because of -- so much water, you know.  Therein lies the issue.   
I lose so much weight and lose strength and I lose power and endurance.  It's a task.  It always has been my entire year playing in hot conditions trying to keep my weight.   
 Q.  How did you spend yesterday?  
TIGER WOODS: Went to the gym, did some treatment and watched TV.   
 Q.  How important was today?  
TIGER WOODS: I needed it.  I really did.  I played a lot of -- I just played a lot of golf in the last what, six weeks, and I needed a day off to recover and make sure I was fresh for today, and being a Monday finish, you know, back things up and I just didn't -- looking at the forecast too, as well, as hot as it was, I think one of the guys pulled out after 9 holes yesterday, couple caddies went down yesterday as well.   
You know, I wanted to manage it and so disappointed I didn't play in the Pro-Am but also, then again, was best thing for me.   
 Q.  What did you practice --  
TIGER WOODS: Lot of tennis.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT