WGC NEC INVITATIONAL
August 18, 2005
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I felt reasonably comfortable.  I didn't hit it great today, but I kind of grinded my way around and left myself with some easier up and downs when I did miss, so it wasn't so bad.  I felt a little bit better with the putter this week, which is a good sign.
Q.  Can you talk about the drive on 8?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, it was straight downwind.  I'm just making sure I don't hit the flame out to the right in the trees over there, which I've been doing my entire back nine, which is the front nine.  I just made sure I got committed to it and hit the right shot and it just kind of rolled down there.

It's kind of swirling.  It's blowing from all different directions down in these trees, and it's not blowing hard enough to be consistent, so you get these little valleys and it crops up from different directions.

A couple times Niclas got fooled today and it hurt him pretty good.  You just have to be patient and judge it and guess and hit at the right time.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  To do what he did today, I mean, that's pretty impressive.  You look at what it looks like, it's not pretty.  Obviously he's in a lot of pain, and he dealt with it fine.  He just grinded his way around the golf course and did the best he possibly could today.  You could see he was fighting all day.  Any time you make impact it's going to hurt, so good on him for hanging in there and sticking it out.
Q.  You've had some success in recent years here.  Talk about coming back and how the crowd is responding to you.
TIGER WOODS:  It's been great.  I've always loved playing here.  My first year was '97, and I've always loved old style golf courses that are right in front of you, no tricks, no elephant burial grounds, just right in front of you.  It's a golf course that can be so brutally hard if it's firm and fast like it is now, and it's going to get faster.  We've shot some good scores, but when those fairways get soft it gets pretty hard because of the angles, and these greens are really tough to get at.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT