BUICK OPEN
July 28, 2005
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Talk about your round.
TIGER WOODS:  I drove it great today, and then either hit my irons terrible or left myself long putts or I just didn't make a couple putts or I dunked the ball in the water.  Some weird things out there.
Q.  Can you remember having a round like this?
TIGER WOODS:  It's been a while where I didn't get anything out of my round, not one shot.  It's frustrating because I felt like I drove it great today.  I hit driver just about every hole and piped them, and from there, the adventure began.
Q.  And it's been a while since you played really well here, talk about being comfortable yesterday and what was it today?
TIGER WOODS:  I don't know what it is.  I got nothing out of my round today.  I drove it great today.  I hit some great drivers down there and I dunked the ball in the water, fatted a little chip, hit another chip that lipped out, horse shoed a couple of putts today.  I didn't get any momentum on my side at all.
Q.  Where did you put it in the water?
TIGER WOODS:  On 13.
Q.  Did you ask for a ruling on the 7th hole?
TIGER WOODS:  Yes, I did.
Q.  What was that about?
TIGER WOODS:  One of the photographer stepped on my ball.  Not that my day went bad enough, you know.
Q.  Your second round, the numbers that people are putting up    inaudible?
TIGER WOODS:  The guys going low, but they are not going really low, though.  You would figure by now with the conditions, somebody would have shot 7  , 8  , 9 under par right now but not yet.  Maybe it's just playing a little bit longer.  I know we got a couple of mud balls early in the round, and maybe guys are catching a couple like I did and like Ryan did a couple of times, too.  Maybe just might have started out that way.
Q.  How were the conditions?
TIGER WOODS:  Overall, this is as good as you can get.  Very little wind out here, you can be aggressive, greens are super soft and rolling well.  You've just got to watch out how much spin you put on the ball coming into the greens.
Q.  How encouraging is it just to be four strokes back after such an awful round?
TIGER WOODS:  I didn't really play awful, that's the great thing.  I'll just go ahead and handle my business tomorrow and if I get something out of my round, I'll be fine.
Q.  Is there a feeling that you let it get away with conditions like this    inaudible?
TIGER WOODS:  Letting it get away?  According to the forecast, every day is going to be good here.  With that in mind, you're going to have to shoot some good numbers.  It's out there.  I had an opportunity to shoot a good number today.  I just didn't do it.  Hopefully tomorrow I can get it done.
Q.  Talk about 7 and 16 a little bit.
TIGER WOODS:  7, I piped it down there, hit just a terrible 3 wood.  Just piped it over in the trees and hit a sand wedge over the green and then got up and down from there.

16, I hit driver and 3 wood on the front edge and 3 putted.
Q.  One of the photographers stepped on it?
TIGER WOODS:  He kicked it and drove it in the ground.  If you know the exact spot, you can drop, and there was a lady there who know knew the exact spot, so it was perfect.

Q.  Inaudible?
TIGER WOODS:  There's a couple of shots you muck around with on the range and hit shots like that for fun.  Unfortunately I had to do it in game time situation.  I hit it in there, so I might as well hit the same shot out.
Q.  Was that the chip?
TIGER WOODS:  No, that was a terrible chip.  No, that was another one.  Make that two of them.
Q.  The second shot on the 10th, I heard you say to your caddie, "So much for our theory."  What was your theory?  What did you talk about?
TIGER WOODS:  We had a big time mud ball on the front part of the golf ball.  It was more front than left, so I figured if I aimed just a little bit left of the hole.  The mud should bring it to the right a little, but more than anything it should knuckle it down.  But instead of knuckling it down, it knuckled it to the right.  We misread the mud on the ball.

When it dries out like this, you're going to pick up more mud balls.  I don't exactly hit the ball low off the tees.
Q.  So many of your misses were left today, either off the tee shot or fairway wood, is that something, is that a hand or grip thing?
TIGER WOODS:  I don't know.  I hit 11 fairways today.  I don't feel like I drove it bad.  The shots I did hit on to the green, I either tug them or hit them out to the right, so I had a combination of both.  It just wasn't one or the other.
Q.  Just more range time?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, just go work on it a bit.  As I said, I didn't hit it that bad.  I got nothing out of my round.  Hit a couple squirrely ones but got nothing out of it.  Hopefully tomorrow I can post a better number.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT