CIALIS WESTERN OPEN
July 2, 2005
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Are you pleased with your round?
TIGER WOODS:  I am.  I had it going there in the beginning of the front nine.  The easiest holes on the golf course are probably 9, 10 and 11 and I didn't do anything on those holes, so that probably was the disappointing part.  Overall, I guess I've got a shot going into tomorrow.
Q.  Two eagles in a row on 15.
TIGER WOODS:  Not too bad.  I hit a beautiful drive down there downwind and hit a 7 iron there, which was nice.  It was playing pretty short today, which is unusual.
Q.  You did some extra putting yesterday.  Did it help?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, it helped.  I've been putting well the last two days, which I haven't done all year.  I've been very streaky.  For me that's not normal.  Normally I'm pretty decent, pretty good, day in and day out.  This year has been kind of streaky, good and bad, nothing in between.  I logged in the time and I'm starting to see some results.
Q.  Did you have a number in mind today?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, something mid 60s again, which would be nice.  If I would have gotten somewhere near 10 it would have been great, but I didn't quite get there.  I got it to 7, which is fine.

Hopefully the guys don't run away from it.  If I can put three, four more birdies up there, I should be all right.
Q.  Is that your fear, that the conditions aren't hard enough?
TIGER WOODS:  They're not very hard.  The greens are soft, receptive, and if you drive the ball in the fairway you should be able to go at most of the flags.
Q.  Knowing how they set it up in the final round, how low do you feel you can go?
TIGER WOODS:  The golf course is not set up all that hard.  You'll see some low scores tomorrow.  Hopefully I can post one of them.  The pins are normal Sunday but the fairways are fast, so the balls are rolling down there.
Q.  You had the three birdies in a row, and pars on the next three holes after that.  On the two par 5s you've always done well.  Do you feel like the momentum sort of got away from you?
TIGER WOODS:  The easiest holes are 9, 10 and 11.  They are not that hard.  I had opportunities to do something there and I didn't it.  That was certainly frustrating, but you've got to keep plugging along.  After I made bogey on 14, at least I came back.
Q.  How thick was that grass on 14?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, I had a decent lie, didn't have a great lie.  But the problem is I was worried about was going underneath it and leaving it there because it was sitting up on top.  I went at it a little too hard and hit it too far.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT