CIALIS WESTERN OPEN
July 1, 2005
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  64 or 65 gets you back in it.
TIGER WOODS:  I played a little bit better today but more importantly I putted better.  The work I did last night sort of helped.
Q.  Yesterday you played 11 and 15 in 12 strokes.  Today you played them in 7.
TIGER WOODS:  I hit two good shots in.  I didn't mean to put it right of the hole because there's not much room right of the hole, but I'll take it, and I made a nice putt there from eight feet.
Q.  Was that a tough lie there on 18?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, but it wasn't that hard.  I was hitting a nice little high one in there and actually got under it too much.
Q.  How far did you have there?
TIGER WOODS:  292.
Q.  What did you hit?
TIGER WOODS:  3 wood.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  I shanked it.  I've hit the ball so bad when I've tried to hit it hard, and that was a perfect example of it.  I leaned on it, tried to get more out of it, and I leaned right on top of it.  I had to pitch out, and unfortunately    I actually made a great bogey.  I've hit better shots in there and made bogey, so it's the same thing.
Q.  When was your last shank?
TIGER WOODS:  Probably a few years ago.  You do it every now and then hitting flop shots out of the rough, but really not from    I must have had a bad lie on the tee box there (laughter).
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  They're both the same.  They were both really crappy shots.

That's just the way it goes.  It's not the first one and it probably won't be the last, so hopefully we can limit those to very few.
Q.  The wind up in the trees and everything
TIGER WOODS:  It's unbelievable.  It's blowing all over the place.  We played 15 straight off the right, and we played 16 straight off the right.

I mean, it's swirling all over the place, and it's hard to believe that some of these holes shouldn't be that way, but Zach hit a couple shots that were great looking golf shots, just got slammed by the wind because they came out a different direction.  It's going to be tough for the guys in the afternoon.
Q.  How do you feel heading into the weekend?
TIGER WOODS:  It's going to be hard to shoot a low one in the afternoon.  We found that out yesterday.  Not too many guys went low yesterday.  Hopefully they won't run away from me, and I can go ahead and play a good round tomorrow and get myself back in it.
Q.  What did you do between yesterday and today to get it back?
TIGER WOODS:  I just putted last night for a little bit and just worked on it.  I didn't hit the ball that bad, I just got nothing out of it on the greens.  If I made a few putts yesterday, I turned the momentum around or kept the momentum going.  I just didn't do it yesterday, so I worked on the putting green yesterday, and I felt like I had my speed back today.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  Not that long.  Maybe like an hour and a half.
Q.  When do you think things    (inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  Well, horseshoed it on the first hole, beautiful putt and horseshoed it.  A nice birdie on 2, and then lipped out a chip shot for par, another horseshoe there.  I never felt like it was turning around, but just had to stay patient with it.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  Not necessarily.  I've been playing well, I just haven't been getting anything out of my rounds.  I guess my last tournament, I guess everyone felt the same way.  It's nice to come to a tournament where you can actually make birdies again.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  You just plug along.  You just stay in the present, you work on what you have to do to get the ball to the next spot, and that's it.  It doesn't get any more complicated than that.  You just try and place the golf ball where you need to try and place it at all times and try and stay as focused as you possibly can at that moment, and forget the rest.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT