DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2018
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great round of golf.  A few that you left out there.  Are you happy?  
TIGER WOODS: Absolutely, I played well today.  I hit it well.  I really rolled it on my lines.  A couple didn't go in, but it was a good, solid day all around.   
 Q.  Yesterday you were in some tough spots?  
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I did not put myself in the best spots today.  I drove it like I did yesterday.   
 Q.  The percentage on how much better you putted today, what would you say?  
TIGER WOODS: I don't know about a percentage, but I felt a lot better with my irons.  Yesterday I hit a couple of bad ones.  And today I did not.  The only bad shot I hit today was my tee shot on 8.  I stuck it in the ground.  But other than that, it was a good day.   
 Q.  What does this say about your swing?  
TIGER WOODS: It's come along.  I think more today -- more since I've switched drivers, that I've got a little bit more spin on it, I'm keeping the ball in play a little better.  I can cheer for my bad ones, they're hanging in there.  A couple of tee shots were kind of borderline, but still in the fairway.  I think that's probably the biggest difference.  It's a lot easier the last couple of days -- the last couple of tournaments I've driven the ball so much better, given myself better chances.   
 Q.  It's so loud whatever hole you're at.  Can you talk about the support?  
TIGER WOODS: They're awesome.  They're into it, supportive.  But they were into it before we even played today.  You should hear roars going out around the golf course when we're on the range warming up.  That's pretty cool, that's neat.  This area is known for their sport and supporting.  And we're just so thankful that they're out here supporting this event.   
 Q.  What do you think of your chances in this tournament the rest of the way?  
TIGER WOODS: I've got some work to do still, I'm 6 back.  Again, this is a golf course you can't sit still on.  You have to keep making birdies, you have to keep getting after it.  Conditions are going to be like this the rest of the weekend, you're going to see plenty of birdies out there.   
 Q.  What's the difficulty of trying to chip off the tight lies up the slope.  (No microphone.)  
TIGER WOODS: Depends.  You know, the one I had today on 18 was sitting down a little bit.  I had to get it up but also spin it.  I had one over on 12.  That was -- either I bump-and-run it with a little hook spin with a 7- or 8-iron, kind of like what Leish did today.  Leish did that today.  I feel it was a better play to putt it and put a little overspin with the right hand on it, hold it against the hill.  I just figured I didn't have the right lie for the shot.   
 Q.  The I think in the 5th hole you went left and it went down the slope.  Did you think you had that off the putt?  
TIGER WOODS: On 5?  Not really.  I was just trying to get it close.  It was an interesting thing, though.  It was breaking hard left-to-right coming down the hill, but it streams up.  It wants to be tugged toward the edge of the green.  Yeah, it looked pretty good from about five, six feet out.  But it wants to be tugged toward the right edge of the green, and it definitely did.   
 Q.  Anybody remind you of the Tweet you sent out a year ago yesterday, you know what I'm talking about?  
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I do.   
 Q.  The first time you were cleared, I think, and you sent a video.  I'm curious if you go back to that at all yourself just for perspective?  
TIGER WOODS: I do a lot.  I do a lot.  And throughout this entire year I've gone back to that and just been so thankful that I have the opportunity to start chipping again, start progressing.  And never would have dreamt that I'd be in this position.  Just so thankful that everything turned out the way it did.   
 Q.  When you think about a day like that a year ago you're just allowed to do that.  How daunting was the road ahead did you think?  
TIGER WOODS: I was very nervous because I didn't want to screw it up.  This is it.  So if it doesn't fuse, there really is no other option.  And so the whole idea is the surgeon said it was fused, and okay, you can start progressing.   
I remember when I was cleared to hit long irons.  Yeah, my first 4-iron probably carried about 90 yards.  I was just so apprehensive to start letting it go.  The doc said you're good to go, now you've got to build in the confidence to let it go.  And that's probably what took the longest.  I just didn't want to -- I didn't want to hurt again.  I didn't want to feel that pain again.  Every now and again throughout this entire year I've probably golfed and played a different shot here and there, because there is a bit of me that doesn't want to feel that way again.   
 Q.  Your putts were on the back of the cup.  
TIGER WOODS: I just felt -- I feel like really more comfortable and confident with this putter.  My hands remember this swing of the putter and the release of it.  And I just feel more comfortable with it.  And right now I'm letting it rip and some of the putts -- the bad ones are lipping out and the good ones are lipping in.  Last week they were not -- the bad ones didn't have a chance and the good ones were lipping out.  So I've made some nice progress the last week.   
 Q.  Talk about 14.  
TIGER WOODS: On 14.  That was a good little putt.  I've had that putt before.  I just tried to be confident in my read.  And it came out okay.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT