EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2005
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIGER WOODS:  It's great for the event.  When you're out there playing, you couldn't care less.  You're out there trying to get yourself into position for Sunday afternoon.

We'll see what happens between now and then.  But it's great for the event, great for Mr. Nelson that all the guys came here to support his event, a great event, so it just makes for a lot more fun for all of us.
Q.  Everywhere you guys go, when you have that situation where the Top 5 are playing, people talk about the Fab Five.  Should you guys have like black socks or anything crazy?
TIGER WOODS:  Who could care less to be honest with you?  Not all of us play well the same event.  We do all play some events, but we're not guaranteed to have all five of us at the top of the board.  You've got to take care of your own business.  They're not worried about me, I'm not worried about them until Sunday afternoon.  We'll see what happens on the back nine, but we need to get ourselves there in position first.  That's the first and foremost thought in all of our minds.
Q.  Do you feel it might be a little bit easier to score at Cottonwood tomorrow than it is on this course?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, Cottonwood is certainly an easier golf course, but you still have to hit good shots.  The rough is up a little higher over there than it is over here, and we'll see.  If you look at that board, most of the good scores are over there because the golf course is a little bit shorter.  I'll play tomorrow and get it going and post a good number.
Q.  Take us through that eagle on 7.
TIGER WOODS:  I hit a good drive, it was nice.  Landed on the downslope, rolled out there and I hit a 7-iron to about six, seven feet.  It was left center and I hit a good putt and it went in.
Q.  Was it more of a case of you hitting bad putts today or hitting good putts that just didn't go in?
TIGER WOODS:  No, I hit good putts.  My good putts were just right around the edge, and obviously when I hit a couple bad ones, it didn't even sniff them.

The frustrating thing is I hit so many quality putts that just ran over the edge.  It didn't seem like my speed was off, possibly rolling a foot past the hole, which is good, meaning my lines are just a little bit off.
Q.  Not anything you're worried about?
TIGER WOODS:  No, because I hit good putts.  If I felt yippy or twitchy out there, it would be a different story, but I felt good.
Q.  The PGA has wanted to make this event tougher.  Over the years, have you sensed that it's gotten tougher with more trees and --
TIGER WOODS:  Oh, if you look at the fairways, they've narrowed them up, a lot of the holes, 15 yards.  You remember 16 there used to be a fairway to the right of those fairway bunkers there.  Not anymore.  They've made a concerted effort to make this golf course more narrow, planted a lot more trees to make it more penal off the tees.

When the wind is blowing, obviously it's going to be tough.  But when the wind is not blowing, it's short enough where the guys will just tear it apart.
Q.  Retief said that Byron Nelson and his wife picked him up at the airport.  Anything special happen with you and Mr. Nelson this week yet?
TIGER WOODS:  No, I just saw him yesterday.  That was the first time I've seen him this week, so it was nice to see him out there in the Pro-Am.  I said hello to him and asked him how he was feeling, just had a little quick conversation, and I had to go finish up my Pro-Am.
Q.  Discussing him brings a smile to your face, so you do feel that personal relationship we keep hearing about?
TIGER WOODS:  Yes, Mr. Nelson is certainly one of those gentlemen that -- he's meant so much to the game of golf and he's meant a lot to my career.  He's pulled me aside a number of times and we've just rapped about my career, my future, the game of golf, styles of play.  It's not too often when you get to pick someone's brain who's just a living legend and who's done so much in the game of golf.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT