WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 6, 2005
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TIGER WOODS:  I did end up there, didn't I?  I hit a bad tee shot off of 12, which cost me a shot there.

I hit a nice little shot on 14 which spun back in the water.  That's just the way it goes.

I hit a poor second shot into 16 and that cost me another shot.  It was a frustrating finish; as well as I drove it all day today, I didn't take advantage of it.
Q.  With the golf course playing as difficult as it was and the pins being where they were and the wind blowing, it was playing much tougher?
TIGER WOODS:  Oh, without a doubt.  I mean, the wind is not only swirling but it's changing direction; it's one thing when it comes off the right and changes to move off the right, but all of a sudden it will come off left and go straight downwind.  It was all over the place.  You just had to be committed to what you thought was right and hopefully you timed it up right.  I did that right most of the day.  A couple times it got me, but overall I was pleased with the way I was able to time the wind.
Q.  Talk about your start.
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, off to a great start, you know.  Unfortunately I didn't just quite keep it going.  I had my opportunities there to make some more birdies, but I slipped back and made a couple bogeys but then got it going early on the back nine on 10 and 11 and slipped up again, so hopefully tomorrow I can get off to the same start and just keep it going.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  It was fluffier, yeah.  Actually Cooky's ball, on 17, his ball stayed up somehow.  Unfortunately mine just did not.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  I hit a good shot.  That's the thing that's funny.  It landed right of the hole and ended up in the water.
Q.  Talk about 17 today with the wind.  It looked like it was really blowing.
TIGER WOODS:  You're coming off left and mostly down, but the problem is you don't know which gust you're going to get.  Like Weirsie hit a shot and it looked like it was going to go in the water, short left, and all of a sudden it got smacked around and ended up in the bunker.  I hit my ball and I thought I hit a perfect shot, if not I pulled it a little bit, and it got smacked straight down.  That's just the way it is.

The hardest hole out there is not 17, it's probably 9.  I smoked a 2-iron as hard as I could after a good drive.  It wasn't like I hit one of those heel drives out there.  I hit it good.
Q.  Did you have the right club for 6?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I just didn't hit it right.
Q.  2-iron?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah.
Q.  Was that too much?
TIGER WOODS:  It was way too much.  It was a perfect 2-iron, but when you hit it off the toe like that --
Q.  If you come out tomorrow and have a really strong round --
TIGER WOODS:  Same thing, just be patient and take what the golf course gives you.  This golf course is such that if you shoot a round in the mid-60s you'll move up that board, and that's the great thing about it.  Hopefully tomorrow I can do that.
Q.  Are the greens still hard and fast?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, they are.  I mean, they're a little bit softer today because it rained a little bit, but still, toward the end they start picking up a little bit more speed.  The wind is drying them out big-time, and some of the downhill putts are very similar to what you face at a major championship.
Q.  Is the wind affecting the ball on the greens?
TIGER WOODS:  A little bit, some of the exposed greens.  The putt I had on 17 was an inside right putt but I played right center because I thought I would hold it, and it held it right in the middle of the hole.  Some of the exposed putts, yeah, it's going to affect it.
Q.  The shot on 8 did the wind get you?
TIGER WOODS:  I overcut it, just hit a bad tee shot.  I was lucky actually to have a golf shot over there.  I was in between a couple of rocks, and I was just trying to advance it, hopefully get it out because I could have easily hit the rock right in front of me and come back and hit me for two.  Somehow I got it out and just couldn't get up-and-down.
Q.  Were you trying to get the bunker from there?
TIGER WOODS:  I was trying to just it just forward, just up over the rocks and not take a two-shot penalty for hitting myself.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT