MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2005
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Looked like you started where you left off yesterday.
TIGER WOODS:  I started well.  Hit a pretty good 6-iron on 10, a nice little putt down the hill.  I got a great break on 11.  My tee shot wasn't very good, but I had a nice opening on the green and put it up on the green and made birdie and kept it going from there.
Q.  Coming from four back --
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, it's better, isn't it, a lot better.  So we're in position headed to this afternoon.  We're going to have a long afternoon ahead of us.  So go home, get something to eat and be right back in.
Q.  Did you focus on your game or were you looking to see how things were shaking up?
TIGER WOODS:  I was looking at the scoreboard, no doubt about that, to see what the guys are doing out there.  There's some birdie holes out there, and also some disaster pins.  So if you go after some of these pins, miss on the wrong sides, you're going to make some bogeys and doubles.
Q.  What did you hit on 15?
TIGER WOODS:  I hit a fat 6-iron out of there.  I hit it solid, no problem.  It was kind of fat coming out and landed inside the hazard embedded and couldn't play it.  Pitched it over the green and got up-and-down for bogey.  I was right in the hazard pin-high.

I was trying to sweep a 5-iron there and I hit it perfectly flush and just lost it to the right.  I didn't sweep it.  Only thing that was good part about it is it landed in the fairway on the upslope, so it looked like it might have a chance and go down there and was lucky.
Q.  You talked about momentum, and you were able to get that going.
TIGER WOODS:  I was tired.  When I left here I was tired, but I got up this morning and felt good.  I made sure I was ready and focused to start the day, and nine more holes and we're in a major championship, so I had to be ready.
Q.  You did something different on the range?
TIGER WOODS:  No, same warmup.  Did everything exactly the same.  Went through my same routine and just felt pretty good about it and went out there and made sure that I stayed committed on my shots, and that's what I tried to do all day.
Q.  Did you say anything to Steve on 17?
TIGER WOODS:  Just keep going, keep playing, where are we going to put the tee shot on the next hole.
Q.  Was the 62 in your mind?
TIGER WOODS:  You don't think that way.  You think about, look at where you're going to place the tee shot, place it on the right side on 14, a perfect angle to the flag in the back left, and that's how you have to play.
Q.  How much does this course change between now and when you go back out?
TIGER WOODS:  I don't know.  I don't know if they are going to cut it or not.  The fairways are probably almost the length of the first cut this year.  They are pretty long out there, so I don't know if they are going to be able to get mowers on them, but if they are, it will be totally different.  If they don't, they will be catching some fliers in the fairway.
Q.  Was that a bad break --
TIGER WOODS:  No, I didn't hit it solid enough to get it in the middle shelf.  I was trying to put the ball at the flag, at the flag or in the middle of the shelf but not down in the bottom.
Q.  From yesterday morning to now, you've been on a good stretch.
TIGER WOODS:  It's been a while, hasn't it, because you're not going to be making a whole bunch of birdies.  Most majors are pars.  So the greens were soft and receptive, and that's the only reason why the guys are making birdies out there.  And also a lot of the pins were down on the bottoms, too, bottom of the hole, and that makes a big difference.
Q.  Couldn't have anticipated turning a four-shot deficit into a lead?
TIGER WOODS:  It was a nice, nice turnaround.  Realistically, I didn't think Chris would play a back nine like he did, but that happens out here.  Like I said, anything can happen.  You've just got to keep plugging along and worry about your own problems; we have enough of them out there.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT