MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2005
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SCOTT FORD:  This is a man that needs no introduction, who was 11-under on I think 27 holes today, we'll have to check that, Tiger Woods.  We'll throw it open to any questions.  Feel free.
Q.  Disappointing, as well as you just played those last nine holes you were able to inch a little bit closer to the lead?
TIGER WOODS:  The golf course wasn't playing as difficult today as it normally does.  A lot of the pins were on the bottom of the bowls, so you could feed the ball into the hole, the low points, you know.  So with that being said, you can be aggressive, fire the ball into an area and the ball is going to feed and collect to the hole.

So, you know, the guys are going to make some birdies.  Look at everybody is making birdies out there.
Q.  Could you talk about the mud ball on 10 and if that made it an easy decision?
TIGER WOODS:  Oh, it was a no-brainer.  It was a great break that they blew the horn and they said it was going to either blow at 7:45 or whenever the last group finished 9, whatever happened first.  When we saw that down there, it was nice to know I could put the tee in the ground.
Q.  There was some footage of you in between rounds lounging around.  Were you getting antsy around waiting as long as you were?
TIGER WOODS:  Well we didn't know what time we were going to go off.  There were no tee times.  They were calling guys to the tee.  No one had a clue.

I don't know what happened, but I guess it was computer failure or something like that or no tee times were written.  So guys were on the putting green going, "What time do you play?  I have no idea."  So I'm standing around, putting around, so we don't have a clue.

So I went on the range, warmed up, thought I had 55 minutes or so, according to the math we did if we're going eight-minute intervals because that's what it looked like starting out.  All of a sudden, I had an hour and 15 minutes, so I had to shut it down and laid on the bag and rested.  Thomas went over and did it and same thing with David.
Q.  Can you just talk about hitting through that rough start, the first round?
TIGER WOODS:  You know, the good thing is I kept telling myself, I kept hitting good golf shots; just nothing happened.  You know, 13 I putted the ball in the water, but I hit a 3-wood that flew about 300 yards, which I don't normally do, and hit a great 5-iron out of there and hit a bad putt.  So two good golf shots.

Two good golf shots on 1, made bogey there.  2 wasn't very good.  Roll it on the ground about a hundred yards with a driver, that's not very good (laughter).

But at least I made par.  I guess that's what it takes to make par.  But, you know, I kept telling myself, I kept hitting good golf shots and I would just mess it up, or I'd get a bad break.  So just keep hanging in there, keep hitting quality golf shots and it will turn, and luckily, it turned.
Q.  In what ways is the golf course still very dangerous?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, any time you put the ball above the hole, I mean, it's tough.  You put the ball in the wrong spot above the hole, it's a tough 2-putt.  You know, with the pins on the bottom of the bowls, at least you've got an area that you can feed the ball into, when you hit a bad shot it can kind of collect them, either one or two sides.

When the pins get up on top is when it becomes very difficult.  The first day, all of the pins were up on top.  Today the pins were on the bottom; guys are shooting better scores.
Q.  Can you talk about playing the back nine on Sunday at the Masters?  You'll be playing it twice tomorrow; how does that alter the dynamic?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, I've just got to set myself up.  We've got a long way to go.  We've got 27 holes to go.  As I said out there, it's a long, patient day, and I've just got to continue being patient and plod your way along, because, you know, we're obviously going to have some time between rounds, get focused, get something to eat and off you go again.
Q.  If this is Jack Nicklaus's last Masters, which he says it probably is, would it make it more meaningful to win if that were to occur?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, it would be kind of cool.  Well, I thought I won when he played his last British Open.  But I see he's playing again (laughter).  I remember I won when he played in his last PGA; that was pretty sweet.  But he's still got options; he still could come back just like he's going to at the British Open this year.
Q.  Could you describe the feeling, the sensation of momentum that you were able to build up through the course of the day to get to where you are now?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, as I said, I kept hitting quality golf shots and I just wasn't getting anything out of it.  You know what, in the second round, when I -- actually, the first round, second day, I just birdied 5, I hit a great shot into 6, a yard from the hole, I was off the green and I make bogey.  So I said, you know, I'm hitting good golf shots, just stick with it.  All of a sudden the momentum started to kind of build, I started making putts.

But my golf shots were just as good, but it just happened, the momentum just kind of got on my side and I kept making some putts.
Q.  Do you have a sense of how much pressure you put on somebody like a Chris?  You having won eight majors, do you have a feel in your mind about that?
TIGER WOODS:  Not at all.
Q.  Not at all?
TIGER WOODS:  I'm not in his shoes.
Q.  Do you feel that plays to your advantage?
TIGER WOODS:  We have a long way to go.  I don't look at it that way.  I look at it, the fact that I've got 27 holes to go and I've got to grind it out tomorrow.  It's going to be another long day.
Q.  When you putted the ball in the water on 13, did you ever imagine you would get back into this position?
TIGER WOODS:  Yes.
Q.  You did?
TIGER WOODS:  Mm-hmm.
Q.  You're that confident?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah.
SCOTT FORD:  Got anything you want to end on?
TIGER WOODS:  No, I'm good.
SCOTT FORD:  Thank you very much (laughter).


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT