WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
August 31, 2018
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tiger, was today's score, 1-over, about the best you could have done?
TIGER WOODS: Yeah.  When I did miss it, I missed it in bad spots, didn't have very good angles.  But overall, no one is going low out there today.  It's tricky with the wind blowing the way it is right now.  Hopefully tomorrow I can miss in correct spots and make a few more birdies than I did today.
Q. You made a great putt on 8.  Tell me about that?
TIGER WOODS: Well, it was a crap second shot, though.  It was an easy chip up the hill that I didn't hit solid.  It was just up the hill left-to-right, broke about two feet and poured it in there.
Q. How do you feel where you are based on your start at the first of the day?
TIGER WOODS: I was 3-over early and didn't have a whole lot going on.  But I hung in there.  And 18, 1, 2, 4, there's some birdieable holes there, if you could play those holes 4-under par, I'd turn this whole round around.  And I made a few birdies there, which was nice.  Couldn't quite keep the momentum going throughout that -- the front side, my back nine, felt if I felt momentum going, I could have finished under par today.
Q. Talk about your first swing of the day.
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, that was pretty funny, actually, because -- I had -- I thought was a 3-wood out.  And -- well, not we, Joey had put the wrong head cover on from the range, so I had a 5-wood out, which I put down there, and like, I can't hit it that far in the wind, I need a 3-wood.  I went back to 3-wood, that's why it looked like I switched, because I realized I had the wrong club in my hand.
Q. Was part of the reason for putter switch the greens this week?
TIGER WOODS: No, we have been working on this putter since about the Nationals time, the last couple of months, and trying to get a putter that looked exactly like my old putter, but it had the grooves in it to roll the ball better.  And we finally got one.  And I liked it.  I felt good with it.  We had to adjust the loft on it just a touch the other day.  And I found that my feels came back, that releases something I'm very familiar with.  And it felt good.
Q. How do you think it did in a competitive situation?
TIGER WOODS: I putted beautifully today, I really did.  I hit a lot of good putts, and just have to give myself more looks out of them.  I didn't hit the ball close enough today.
Q. You said in Carnoustie you were hoping to exchange information with Serena on your respective comebacks.  Have you had a chance to do that?
TIGER WOODS: Uh-huh.
Q. What's the take away and will you watch the Serena-Venus match tonight?
TIGER WOODS: I think we all will.  It's never easy for them to play against one another.  They root for each other so hard and they love each other so much.  But when they have to play it's not easy on either one of them.  Especially at this late stage in their careers they know that these aren't going to happen very often.  And someone has to move on.  Yeah, we've talked at length.  We're very close friends.  I think we both have had some nice comebacks this year.
Q. Rory compared you to Rafa and Serena.  I asked him what do you and Roger have in common to goats.  He said he sees more of you in Rafa and Serena in your sheer will and determination to succeed.  What is your response to that?  Do you understand what he's saying?
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, totally.  I fight all the way around there.  It's evident how I play.  Roger does the same thing, but he makes it look easy.  It's like when Pete played.  Pete made it look like he wasn't really moving that much.  But he was always in perfect balance.  It looks like he wasn't really trying that hard.  But he was.  He was one ultimate competitor.  So is Roger.
But Rafa and I and Serena, we play the way we do, we show our emotions a little bit more.  And I think that's probably also why I think Rory might refer to that as well.
Q. What did you think of the crowd today.  Was it good to be back in New England?
TIGER WOODS: It was.  I haven't been here in a while and I haven't played.  They came out and supported the event.  I know that this event is not going to happen very often going forward.  One more year out of it.  So it's nice for them to come out.  This is a great sporting town.  They come out and support their sport.  And it's nice to play in front of them.  They were into it, they were supportive.
Q. (No microphone.)
TIGER WOODS: There were a lot of little kids out there.  It was fantastic.  I know they might be taking an early weekend, should be in school studying (laughter).
Q. Are you at a tough spot right now with balancing the need to practice with the need to not swing a golf club too much and where is that balance?
TIGER WOODS: You know, that's a great question, because that's what I'm trying to figure out is how much to practice.  To work on it, I want to work on certain things, but I shouldn't do it.  And when I do work on things I've got to pick which part of the game to work on.  I can't do it all like I used to.  I have to pick certain parts.  And certain days to work on different things.  And really pace myself through -- this is a lot of golf here that I've played of late.
Q. If there were 10 or 15 years ago when you had the inclination to go work on your game how long would you work on it, how many balls would you hit to try to figure something out in and obviously like you just said, you can't.
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I would certainly practice on the aspects that I didn't like that one particular day.  If I didn't hit a few good chip shots or I didn't hit a couple of good drives, a couple of loose irons, I'd hit those clubs and work on those things for a while.  Then I would go work out when I got home.  And maybe go for a light jog, three or four miles.  And that's where it has really, really changed.  I can't do any of those things anymore, not like that.  Not that volume.  Just the sheer volume.  And I just have to pace myself.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT