THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 24, 2005
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  We have Tiger Woods, 70 in the first round.  Talk about the round, Tiger.
TIGER WOODS:  Well, I felt I played well today, hit a lot of good shots.  I missed probably some short birdie putts I probably should have made, and I just tried to get by with some mud balls out there.

It was interesting, I said earlier to the guys, the fairways weren't cut, so it played a little bit different than we're used to.
Q.  In what way?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, starting out, there was a lot of moisture on the fairways, and yes, you had to be worried about if you came in too shallow and catching a little bit of a heater.  It was different, not what we're used to seeing on this golf course.

The greens were absolutely perfect.  You could make some serious amounts of putts.  They were so perfect out there, it's just that somehow mine didn't go in.
Q.  You said the other day that your swing wasn't where it should be on Thursday, and today is Thursday.  Was it a good swing off the tee?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I felt I played well all day and I hit a lot of good shots.

The poor shots I hit weren't really that bad.  I controlled my ball well except for the mud balls occasionally I caught out there, that was a little hard to control at times, but other than that I thought I played pretty solid.
Q.  You also had apparently a very long round.  Does that bother you at all?  It was close to five hours.
TIGER WOODS:  You expect it.  I mean, our Tour is so slow.  Welcome to the PGA TOUR, five plus.  We're lucky we didn't have inclement weather.  If the wind had been blowing it would have been five and a half, easy.  It's one of those things where it's just a slow march around the golf course.  You get used to it playing on the Tour, and it doesn't really surprise you.
Q.  You finished with a birdie on your last hole, a good way to finish the round?
TIGER WOODS:  It was.  I hit a nice drive down there right in the middle of the fairway, it had some mud on it, and I kind of tried to -- the mud was on the right side of the ball so I tried to cut it and hold it, and it almost hooked left of the green.  It started out cutting and ended up hooking left.  I hit a good drive, pitched it up there eight feet and made it.
Q.  If you could ask for something better tomorrow for yourself, it's just getting those couple of putts to fall?
TIGER WOODS:  That's it.  I probably had four or five putts that I missed from ten feet on in, and you just can't afford to do that, especially the greens are so perfect out there that you should make every one of those.
Q.  Steve Jones apparently is.
TIGER WOODS:  You know Jonesy can putt.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT