BAY HILL INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 19, 2005
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIGER WOODS:  I'm only three back.  So, yeah, hey, I'm right there with a chance and still got 36 more holes to go and two more long days.
Q.  Critique your round for us.
TIGER WOODS:  I hit it all right.  Didn't really make any putts.  Just kind of hanging in there all day.  Didn't really do anything spectacular.  Just kind of grinding my way around the golf course, and made a couple nice par putts and kept the momentum going, and I also made a couple good saves for birdie.
Q.  It's not like you haven't done this before with regard to weather and all of that, but you're feeling pretty good?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, hey, we won't get 18 in today.  So it's just one of those things where you've got to be patient.  You know it's going to be long days, up at 4:30 and done at dark.  That's just the way it's going to be.  Just keep your head in the ballgame and just a nice, slow walk.
Q.  What about Retief's comeback?
TIGER WOODS:  That was impressive.  He made a bogey and still shot that.  That was impressive for him to go out there not feeling his best and all of the sudden turn it around and get it going and he's made the cut.
Q.  Flagstick was giving you a headache yesterday; how much of that were you able to work out between yesterday and today?
TIGER WOODS:  A little bit, yeah.  I felt a lot better over my putts.  I rolled the ball a little bit better.  I just didn't quite get the ball as close.

So a Catch 22, rolled it better from a further distance.   So the putts I did have a chance to make, I made them.
Q.  What was that lie you had like behind 8?
TIGER WOODS:  Not very good, into the grain.
Q.  Pretty deep?
TIGER WOODS:  Not necessarily deep but just into the grain.  That's where everybody's walked off.  That's what made it hard.  Downgrain it would have been a pretty easy chip.
Q.  The ball was sitting down pretty deep on the side of the green?
TIGER WOODS:  Oh, you mean -- which one did you ask first?
Q.  Tee shot on 8, your lie.
TIGER WOODS:  I was fine on that one.
Q.  Then when you missed the green to the right; how was that lie?
TIGER WOODS:  That lie was what I described.  That was the one into the grain, sitting fine, but sitting into the grain.
Q.  You took a nice beaver pelt on, what 15, you had to pick out of the bunker over there this morning?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, well, the ryegrass here, it just takes some -- being new ryegrass, you can take some pretty big divots out of this stuff, and we all did these last two days.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT