MERCEDES CHAMPIONSHIPS
January 9, 2005
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIGER WOODS:  I didn't make anything, to be honest with you.
Q.  You made a couple, but I know what you mean.
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I made a couple 2-footers, you're right.  I probably had more opportunities within 15 feet than I've had in a long time.  I really hit it some kind of good this week and I just made nothing.  So I don't feel like I got anything out of my rounds.
Q.  What was the weather like and the course like, the wind?
TIGER WOODS:  It was very similar to how it was on Monday.  Only difference is it wasn't raining on Monday.  I hit the same two clubs on the first two holes, driver and 3-iron on 1 just like I did on Monday, and 2-iron to No. 2.

So from that standpoint, it helped playing on Monday under these conditions.
Q.  Not being critical but 9 is a birdie hole under these conditions.
TIGER WOODS:  Without a doubt.
Q.  And you were not able to get it.
TIGER WOODS:  No.  I hit a 4-iron, 2-iron off the tee and drove it through the fairway, 300-yard 2-iron through the fairway and then a 4-iron over the green.  I hit a good pitch down there and I just blocked my putt and consequently it didn't go in.
Q.  You were up on the board, though, 18.
TIGER WOODS:  I figured today would be either 21 or 22 is the number.  I thought 21 would probably be in a playoff, 22 might win out right.

So, you know, given the chances I've had today, the bogey I made over on 3, it was from -- I had 45 yards to the hole and made bogey.  That kind of leaves a bad taste in your mouth and all of the other opportunities I missed as well.
Q.  What did you hit?
TIGER WOODS:  I drove it right down there, hit a good drive and it just kicked a little left and just rolled in the rough.  I kind of flubbed it from there, then bladed my chip and then left my putt short.  (Laughing.)

So all in all, I started off the hole well; just didn't end it well.
Q.  You must be relatively pleased?
TIGER WOODS:  Very excited the way I ended last year, and, you know, basically, I've been playing like this at home.  I've been making more putts than this but I've been playing just like this at home.

So, I just tried to make my -- make it feel like it's just a continuation of that, and I didn't feel like the year changed.  This is one continuation from last year, and I really hit it well this week.
Q.  Talk about 18, just a few yards short.
TIGER WOODS:  I hit just a gorgeous golf shot at the flag, I hit 4-iron.  You'll laugh at the number, about 280 to the hole, but I just hit a 7-iron on 17 from 215 that went past the hole.  So the numbers are kind of thrown out the door here.
Q.  Even though you didn't finish the way you wanted to finish, you have to be encouraged about the upcoming year?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, you know, if I can just get the putter rolling a little bit more than I did obviously this week, the ball-striking is there.  I'm really excited the way I was able to control my ball all week.  Even my bad shots that I thought I hit were poor shots and I was mad at, they were 15 feet away, 15, 20 feet, so that's very encouraging.
Q.  A year ago right here you said, you've said it before, but basically you're killing yourself with one bad shot.  And now it was so bad that it would ruin a round; and now if your bad shot is still good --
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, that's the whole idea.  This is a game of misses; it's not a game of perfect.  The whole idea is to control your misses and I'm able to put my misses and miss them in the correct spots, and that's the key.  So at least I have easy up-and-downs and I was able to convert most of them this week.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT