THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 25, 2018
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  3-under par 68, probably could have been better.  I know you hit the ball very well out there today?  
TIGER WOODS: I hit it solid today.  Didn't make a lot of putts but it was a good ball-striking day all around.   
 Q.  I know you're back to an older shaft you used before.  Seem like you drove it really well this week, particularly today?  
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, it's a feeling that I know and I used to use it for a number of years.  I know the graphics have changed a little bit but it's basically the same shaft.  Went back to something that I knew and had success with, and it's turned out pretty good.   
 Q.  You looked comfortable out there, the putting, is it just something off, or just not getting the feel of it?  
TIGER WOODS: I'm just not seeing my lines.  It's just one of those things where I'm struggling seeing the lines.  The pace has been okay, not great, but my feel is just a little bit off because -- whether I'm seeing high lines or low lines, they are just not quite dialed in yet.   
 Q.  I thought that's as good a ball-striking round as I've seen out of you?  
TIGER WOODS: I hit it good this week -- not this week, but I hit it good today.  Just felt like I controlled it, shaped it all different ways.  I just didn't hole a lot today.   
 Q.  Your putting has been maybe just a touch off all week long.  Are you not seeing the lines or not hitting the lines?  
TIGER WOODS: More so the former.  I'm just not seeing them correctly.  Yeah, have I hit some bad putts, yeah, of course.  But I'm just not seeing the breaks and for some reason, just one of those weeks where even the good ones are hitting the lips.  They are not lipping in.  They are lipping out.   
 Q.  Does your putting really test your patience out there?  
TIGER WOODS: It does, and for three rounds, I haven't made birdies -- I've only had eight birdies.  That's not going to get it done.  As soft as it is, these guys are making a boatload of birdies, and I just haven't made any.   
 Q.  How was it out there today compared to the first two days?  
TIGER WOODS: About the same to be honest with you.  I just didn't make any bogeys.  For the week, I've only made eight birdies, and that's not going to get it done.  These guys, these guys are making a boatload of birdies, and as soft as it is, I just haven't made any.   
 Q.  You always love being bogey-free?  
TIGER WOODS: I always love doing that.  Today is one of those days where, yeah, I could have had a few more out there.  I just -- as soft as it got, you've got to try to make birdies and I just didn't do it.   
 Q.  First time all year that's happened, no bogeys, do you take some pride or achievement in that even though the score wasn't as low as you wanted?  
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, there were a few times I've been -- I've played a clean card for about 15 or 16 holes, a number of times, actually, this year, and just haven't quite finished off the rounds the way I wanted to.  Today I did.  Didn't birdie 17 but nice to birdie 18.   
 Q.  A low one tomorrow, but what would be a good reward for this last round?  
TIGER WOODS: I think if I can get to double digits, would be nice.  I think that would be a nice way to end it.  Most of these guys are going to go really low, and hopefully I can shoot well, one that will get me into double digits tomorrow and give me some nice momentum going into next week.   
 Q.  You said you were having a hard time lining up putts.  Is that still an issue?  
TIGER WOODS: I'm just not seeing the lines this week.  Just the way it is, way it goes.  And you know, I've called Joey in a few times this week:  "Joey, I see three different breaks here."   
He said, "Yeah, so do I."   
I'm hitting in these spots where I've had double-breakers, or if not triple-breaking putts, and I'm just not seeing or feeling correctly through those areas.  You know, just one of those weeks.   
 Q.  Do you still look at Sunday, the projected points and that sort of things, what can you do to help for next week?  
TIGER WOODS: I just said to Bernie, I just want to get to 10-under.  I think that would be a nice way to end the week.  It's not going to win, but at least I can get some good momentum going into Boston and on a golf course that I've won on before.   
 Q.  From the PGA --  
TIGER WOODS: This is very different.  Very different.  It's only been three days.  I putted great at Bellerive and I just haven't quite had the feel or the pace this week.   
 Q.  You talked earlier in the season -- when, if at all, did the TOUR Championship and East Lake show up on the radar?  
TIGER WOODS: You know, after I finished, what, sixth at The Open Championship, I think that got me, you know, towards where I had a chance to get into THE TOUR Championship, and I wouldn't have to do much.  It's not like I had to have a bunch of crazy tournaments to get into THE TOUR Championship, and then finishing second at the PGA, I leapt up the board pretty good.   
I don't have to do a whole lot to get into THE TOUR Championship, but I still have to do enough.  I've got hopefully, you know, play well tomorrow and into next week and get some momentum going.   
 Q.  Guys like DJ, playing his third tournament with his third different putter; your changes have always been done with a purpose in mind.  Curious if you were to have had stretches, if you've ever felt you needed to change for the sake of change?  
TIGER WOODS: Not really.  I've had to change putters over the years, just because I've altered the shaft after the round (laughter).   
 Q.  Can you elaborate on that?  
TIGER WOODS: (Laughing).   
 Q.  What kind of putter --  
TIGER WOODS: You mean what kind of putter?   
 Q.  -- center shaft, you would like to try?  
TIGER WOODS: Different shafts in the putter?   
 Q.  Center shaft.  
TIGER WOODS: I can't putt with a face-balanced putter.  I like feeling the toe move, and so when I feel, you know, a center-shafted putter, I get that blocky feeling and I don't like that.  I like to feel that toe move and release.   
 Q.  What benefits have you seen out of the driver?  
TIGER WOODS: It's been good.  I've changed the loft on it and gone back to a shaft that I know and I've won numerous tournaments with, so it's a feel that I know.   
This entire year has been trying to hit a moving target just because my swing has changed, my body's changed.  It's morphed through the entire year.  I'm at a place now where I think that that shaft works again.  It's been a number of years before that shaft worked.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT