THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
November 4, 2004
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   How did things feel today?
TIGER WOODS:  Not bad.  It's a little rusty, no doubt about that.  I short-sided myself a little bit, and you just can't do that.  Consequently I made a couple bogeys there and missed a couple short putts I should have made.
Q.  Seemed like the wind picked up a little bit.
TIGER WOODS:  It was tough all day.  The wind was blowing, and the last four holes played awfully difficult because it was -- 16 played awfully long, 17 was a cross wind and 18 was a long hole, so you had to golf the ball coming home.
Q.  Do you like the finish here?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, it's different.  It's a lot like playing Congressional during the U.S. Open when we played it there.  You don't face that very often, and it's certainly a different change.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  Well, I can't really say it here, but that's what's pretty funny.  I heard a little noise behind me as I was walking down the fairway.  Now I know what it was.
Q.  Were you surprised when he decided to putt with it, though?
TIGER WOODS:  The flat stick wasn't flat anymore (laughter).
Q.  Have you ever done that?
TIGER WOODS:  Have I done that?  Not on TOUR I haven't.
Q.  Is it costly when you do that out here sometimes.  Any rust at all?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I think it's not -- not physical rust.  I think I just made some mental mistakes of where I needed to place the golf ball.  I short-sided myself a couple times on my approach shots into the greens, and I consequently made a couple bogeys there.  You just can't do that.  Those are just mistakes that I normally don't make, and I won't make them again tomorrow.
Q.  In the morning over an inch of rain and it seemed like the course really drained well.
TIGER WOODS:  We got some mud balls.  It was not easy.  You try to control distances with the wind blowing as hard as it is, plus you have mud balls on top of that, you have to hit some creative shots.
Q.  You still prefer playing it down?
TIGER WOODS:  It's the 30 best players this year.  Why not?  It's not like we have an entire field of 156 guys; you only have 30 guys.  You might as well play it down.
Q.  Ernie might have had more trouble than you were having.
TIGER WOODS:  You know what, I think Ernie hit a couple bad shots out there today and so did I.

It was just a tough day for both of us because the wind is not forgiving out here, and the pin locations, they put them all up in top spots, which meant they were back in the corners, which meant it was difficult to get them close.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  But you're not going to go extremely low out here, not with these flags today.

Tomorrow's dots are a little bit more forgiving, and we might see some better scores if the wind doesn't blow, but I think the forecast is for the wind blowing.
Q.  Do you ever get a feeling now that your life has changed and you're back to your career?
TIGER WOODS:  No, it's still the same.  I've got to go out there and put the ball in the hole as fast as I can.
Q.  Thanks, Tiger.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT