WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 3, 2004
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIGER WOODS:  It was a long week.  I'm happy to actually have played all four rounds.  Somehow, I don't know how I did it, but I got a Top 10 out of it.
Q.  Anyone who saw you swinging on Thursday will know it was remarkable.  The rest of the week that you're just here, you know what people are going to say.  You know they're going to say it's another chance gone when you haven't won a stroke play and it's getting to the end of the season.  What do you say to that?
TIGER WOODS:  I tried and I haven't done it.  This week was one of the weeks when I was playing well coming in.  Just to have gone all four rounds, I'm pretty proud of it.
Q.  If you get to the end of the season and you haven't won a stroke play tournament, is it a big deal or not?
TIGER WOODS:  So be it.  Then I'll go into the next year.  I've got a tournament in Japan I've got to try to win there, and I have my tournament at the end of the year.
Q.  And if you've played through the injury this week, are you going to have to take some time off?
TIGER WOODS:  No doubt about it.  I have to heal this thing up.  Doing workouts three times a day isn't the best way to go about my business.  I was able to compete, I played as hard as I could and somehow gutted it out.
Q.  How much fun was it out there?
TIGER WOODS:  I'm going to get dry here in a little bit.  No, I'm glad it's done.  Today was not a good day weather-wise.  It was tough.
Q.  We saw you Tuesday and you weren't sure if you were going to play.  Assess the entire week.
TIGER WOODS:  Just having gone all four rounds, I'm proud of that, because I didn't think I was going to be able to go.  I don't know how I got through Thursday and then even Friday, so I'm pretty pleased.
Q.  It's been a year now since you won in stroke play.  Talk about how difficult it is to win.  People don't understand how hard it is to win.
TIGER WOODS:  I've been close this year.  I've come within a shot of making a playoff two straight weeks during the year.  I've had I don't know how many 2nd place finishes, but I've been up there with a chance to win, I just haven't done it.  It's just a matter of eliminating the little mistakes which will allow me to win tournaments.
Q.  It's been a while since you've been No. 3.
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah.
Q.  Do you know how long it's been?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, it was I think roughly Byron Nelson in 99.  I fell to 3.  Davis went to 2, I went to 3, and I won Germany the very next week, and that's when actually my game came together.
Q.  How would you feel if the weather was like this at the next Ryder Cup?
TIGER WOODS:  If we could somehow get all three days or five different stages in, I don't know how we could because I know this golf course can't take any more water.  We were very lucky just to get this in.  I think they did the right thing going off early.  If you notice, most of the guys played really fast today.
Q.  Was it putting extra pressure on your shoulder because of the conditions?
TIGER WOODS:  No, it's not the pressure, it's not -- the golf course playing long wasn't difficult, it was cold.  As I said earlier in the week, if it was 90 and humid, it would be easier to keep this thing warm and loose.  When it's cold, it's tough to keep it loose.  It certainly would feel better if it was warm.
Q.  Are you ready for some heat on a Caribbean island, by chance?
TIGER WOODS:  I'm ready to go diving.  I'm ready to hop in that water and shoot some fish.
Q.  Obviously it's been a while now since you won a tournament, as we said, but what is it that made you make changes to your swing when that swing had got you eight majors by the age of 27?  What was it you felt you had to change?
TIGER WOODS:  I felt I could get better.  If you remember, I junked my golf swing back in 97, too.  I won The Masters by 12 and you guys all thought I was crazy for doing that.  I remember all those articles.  I turned that around, didn't I?
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  No, I just wanted to go a different way and felt that I could get better.  I'm not any different than you are.  I'm always trying to get a little better, hit better golf shots.
Q.  What's been the more frustrating period, the last year changing your swing or the 97 to 99?
TIGER WOODS:  97, 98, definitely was a lot worse because I did not play well through that stretch.  I was more consistent, yes, but I wasn't contending.  Here this year I've been in contention to win tournaments, and I just haven't won.

Back in 97, basically all of 98 and early 99, I didn't contend in tournaments.  I was back-dooring Top 10s just by playing well on the weekend or Sunday, and I was becoming more consistent than I was.  But then again, I wasn't contending in tournaments, which was even more frustrating.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  I think it's just a matter of any player just getting confidence.  He's just going out there and swinging well and making some putts, and it's amazing when everything starts going your way what can happen.  He's just riding it right now.
Q.  Will we see you in Europe next year before the British Open or not?
TIGER WOODS:  Golf-wise or fishing-wise?  I probably might come over here for fishing, but I don't know about golf.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT