THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 24, 2018
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Do you think you're in?  
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, they said there's two guys on the course right now that are at even par, so even par should be in.   
 Q.  You had the driver working right today, unlike before, but had trouble on the greens?  
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, it's just the name of the game is you've got to make putts and you've got to roll it.  No matter how good your drive is, you've still got to roll them and still got to make putts and I didn't putt very well today.  I had a hard time seeing my lines, and consequently, didn't make anything.   
 Q.  Did the golf course play any different today?  
TIGER WOODS: The golf course played a little bit easier today for sure because there was no wind.  We still had ball-in-hand, and so get the ball in the fairway, you can go after most of these flags and with ball-in-hand, you can keep the ball below the hole all day.  There's quite a few good scores out there.   
 Q.  After 7, did you feel you were ready to go on a run?  
TIGER WOODS: I wasn't going to be near the lead but at least I could peck away at it a little bit.  I just never made any birdies.  5 for two days, that's not going to get it done out here.   
 Q.  The one on 14, you had just made that one on 13 -- maybe get on a run with 15 --  
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, you know, I called Joe in for the read and it was a really tough putt.  It was such a short one.  It was left early, right late.  Everything on that green says it has to go towards the front but it really doesn't on that putt.  I happened to be on just the right side of the fault line.   
I didn't trust what I was -- well, I didn't trust my sight.  I was going with my feel, and my feel and my feet betrayed me on that one.   
 Q.  When you're doing things well, particularly working on getting better with the driver, do you not let the putting stuff creep into it in terms of frustration, a round like this?  
TIGER WOODS: It's just one day.  Golf's one of those things where you just have to make putts.  I mean, no matter how good you hit your golf ball tee-to-green, still got to hole it.   
Today was one of those days when I didn't make anything.  Just got to do some work.   
 Q.  Yesterday you said you had a lot of half-irons in and that's where you were kind of uncomfortable.  How was the iron game today?  
TIGER WOODS: Iron was okay today.  I wouldn't say it was as sharp as it has been but it wasn't that bad.  I just didn't roll the ball very good.  I could never get anything kind of rolling.  Make two-out-of-three, three-out-of-four holes, get on any kind of run.  Consequently, I'm ten back.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT