WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 1, 2004
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Any improvement from yesterday?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I feel much better today.  At least I could make somewhat of a turn and get the ball out there a little bit.  Just still not quite right yet.
Q.  I assume your putting was --
TIGER WOODS:  It was terrible.  I had two three-putts and left two short ones there, so four putts right there, four shots.  I could have been at 10-under par easily.
Q.  Simplifying it, you were putting well on the front.  How does it leave you?
TIGER WOODS:  I don't know.  I don't know.  I three-putted on 10, and then from there three-putted 12, missed a couple short ones coming in.  The one on 18 was a no-brainer putt, just inside left and went ahead and blocked that.  It was just a frustrating back nine.
Q.  You played in some funky weather.  How tough was it out there, the wind and the rain?
TIGER WOODS:  Just putting the rain gear on and off.  You don't mind if it stays rainy all day or just doesn't rain and blow, but having the squalls come, it's frustrating.
Q.  How did you feel out there?
TIGER WOODS:  I winced on the front nine a few times.  Some of the shots out of the rough hurt, but you just get accustomed to the pain.
Q.  What is this move here on some of the shots?  Is it the rib or the back?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, the rib is the back.
Q.  It is?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah.  It's in the back.  It's right there.
Q.  I thought it was between the blades.
TIGER WOODS:  It is.  It's the intercostals right there.
Q.  When you woke up this morning and looked out the window and saw the weather the way it was, what did you feel were your chances of playing?  It was really miserable.
TIGER WOODS:  I was just hoping they could get me ready where I could actually make a turn.  I was able to make decent turns on the range, and starting on the front nine, I didn't make very good swings, but I just held in there with my short game and eventually it loosened up a little bit and I was able to swing just a touch more freely.
Q.  You saw Ernie at the majors this year.  Do you think it would be hard with no majors left in the year to go back and play well again this year?
TIGER WOODS:  Not necessarily.  He's got a World Golf Championship here and he's probably got the Volvo over in Europe here, as well as the Tour Championship, so he's got some big events coming up, plus Wentworth at home and the Match Play is right at his house.  And he's won like five times, something like that, so he's got some big events.
Q.  Does the weather hurt your back any worse?
TIGER WOODS:  I'll tell you what, I wish it was about 90 and humid, that would be great, but that's not going to be the case when you come to Ireland.  Unfortunately it's a little bit cooler, which makes it a little bit more difficult to warm up, but it just takes a little bit longer.  Once you get warm, it'll stay warm.
Q.  You've played fairly loose for something like nine holes.  Do you feel the situation has improved such that you've no fears about getting up in the morning?
TIGER WOODS:  No, I've just got to play day by day.  All it takes is for this thing to start spasming again.  It did a couple times today, but it went away, which is nice.  Yesterday they didn't go away.  Hopefully it won't do that, and if it doesn't do that, then yeah, I can play.
Q.  If you lie on the floor --
TIGER WOODS:  You don't feel comfortable anywhere.  You sit up for a while, lay down, you just can't feel a comfortable spot.
Q.  How crazy is the game that you feel lousy and shoot 68 and you feel better and shoot 70?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, it's the same if I would have putted better.  I should have shot 66 no problem today.  I just had four holes where I just spent a little more time on the greens than I should have.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT