WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 30, 2004
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TIGER WOODS:  It was a tough day.
Q.  Did you loosen up at all?
TIGER WOODS:  No, I wish that was the case.  I thought it might loosen up a little bit, but it didn't.  I was hoping the spasms would go away, but that didn't happen, either.  I just had to get through it somehow and post a number.
Q.  What's harder, playing today or playing Sunday at Bay Hill?
TIGER WOODS:  At least there I could go ahead and throw up and be fine.  I felt fine.

Here, I had a hard time turning either way.  I don't know how it looked on TV, whether or not my shoulder turn was halfway decent, but it sure didn't feel very good.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  I was trying to relieve the pain because any time the shoulder blade goes back and contracts, it's when I get the unbelievable shooting pain, and that's usually right at impact and just beyond it.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  Once I hit driver on the range and I could carry it over 200 yards, I figured I was all right.  I could probably play and kind of roll it down the fairway somehow.  I was able to do it today.
Q.  You hit some nice long putts.
TIGER WOODS:  That helps.  I figured if I could just get the ball on the green somehow, I've been putting great, it's just a matter of getting on the green and making putts.  I was hoping I could get there in regulation and I did that most of the day and made a lot of putts.
Q.  What about the weekend, Tiger?  Are you looking forward to it?
TIGER WOODS:  I'm just trying to get to tomorrow.
Q.  Taking it day by day?
TIGER WOODS:  I have to.  I don't know how it's going to feel tomorrow; whether or not today is going to make it feel worse tomorrow, I don't know.  Hopefully that's not the case.  Hopefully I feel better tomorrow, that each and every day it'll feel better.  That's the hope at least.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  No, I didn't feel where -- a couple shots I hit hurt quite a bit, but the spasms would let go by the time I got to the ball and I was all right.

Was there any time where I felt like quitting?  No.  What keeps me going is I guess I'm very stubborn.
Q.  What were you taking for it, the pain?
TIGER WOODS:  I've got a few painkillers in there, on board right now, definitely some anti-inflammatories going, and hopefully a little traction will make it feel better, too.
Q.  Do you have anybody rubbing your back, anything like that?  I saw Steve putting Ben-Gay on your back on No. 3.
TIGER WOODS:  He did it about five, six times today.  I guess that was to try and keep it warm, but he couldn't believe the knots in it.  He said it feels like you've got a sleeve of balls in there.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT