THE RYDER CUP MATCHES
September 19, 2004
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIGER WOODS:  My job was to go out there and get it started early with some red on the board early, and I was able to do that.  The guys fed off of it.  We were up in I think the first five matches or something like that and looking pretty good.

The Europeans have turned it around on us and hopefully we can flip-flop right back on them and make it a little more interesting coming home.
Q.  You have some matches that need some help, namely Phil Mickelson.
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I'm going back out there, and hopefully Phil can put this ball in play right here and make birdie and at least secure half a point somehow.  Somehow get the guys to flip it around and at worst just get a halve.
Q.  Talk about your day today.  More pressure going out early?
TIGER WOODS:  My job was to get it started early with some red on the board early and the guys wereÂ  -- I think fed off it a little bit and we were up in the first five matches for a while and we were looking really good. The Europeans have just flip-flopped it around on us and turned the tide, and hopefully we can do the same.

I think it's crucial for the guys behind us if they are down, at least just get a half a point somehow and don't give the Europeans a full a full point.  If you can do that, you never know what could happen.
Q.  Did you feel under any pressure in your position going out number one; being you to get a big one and get something done early?
TIGER WOODS:  I had to.  I think it was important for me to never show blue on that board.  I had to show red early and show it the entire time.  That was a lot of pressure.  I just treated today like it was the last round of a major championship with Paul and I tied going into the final round and we separated ourselves.  That was my mind set, just go out there and play real solid, real steady and not give him any openings.
Q.  Has this U.S. Team lacked anything if it doesn't come off today?
TIGER WOODS:  Only thing we've lacked is the fact that we haven't made any putts.  The Europeans have made so many more putts than we have.  Basically just flat-out, outplayed us.  Hopefully we can turn the tide coming home.
Q.  How would you describe your Ryder Cup this week?
TIGER WOODS:  It's been a lot of fun, and unfortunately we aren't leading right now and hopefully we can turn the tide and get things going.
Q.  Very well played and you've done your job?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, it was important for me, all of the guys kept telling, we needed to see red on that board early and the entire time.  I was lucky that Paul made a mistake on the first hole, and from there on, it was red on the board the entire time.  I never really gave him an opening to get back in the match.
Q.  What was it like coming into this final session, did you feel as a team that you had any chance at all?
TIGER WOODS:  We felt like if we could get it started early and win the first four or five matches, you never know what could happen, because that's exactly what we did at Brookline.  When I was playing out there on the front, into the front nine, we were up in the first five matches and we were looking really good.

The Europeans flip-flopped it around on us, and you never know, hopefully we can do the same.  I think the guys that are down, if you can just get a half a point and never give the Europeans a full point, at least it will slow down the momentum and maybe might tip it back on our side.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT