THE RYDER CUP MATCHES
September 18, 2004
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIGER WOODS:  This morning, Chris and I played beautifully.  I made a couple birdies early and Chris kind of took over the rest of the way.  And he hit a boatload of great golf shots and made some putts, and we kept the heat on the Europeans the entire way around and never really gave them an opportunity to get back in the match.
Q.  You and Davis also started off real strong, too?
TIGER WOODS:  We got off to a great start.  We were 2-up and I missed two putts right in a row.  Actually, most of the holes they won, they only won two holes with birdies.  Most of the holes they won were with pars.

I basically missed some putts, hit a couple bad shots and basically put us in a very difficult position to try and win a match.  And obviously we didn't win.
Q.  What was the biggest thing you were struggling with today?  Putting, irons, what was the biggest thing?
TIGER WOODS:  I didn't hit the ball very well in the afternoon and I didn't putt well.  So that was a bad combination.

Davis played fine.  I just did not play well this afternoon.  I played well in the first three matches, and this afternoon, I just didn't have it.  It was just not a good time to have that happen.
Q.  Is there one thing that turned it this afternoon that you think, because it looked like you were just rolling right along.
TIGER WOODS:  We got off to a great start, but I just wasn't swinging the club all that well, but I was getting away with it.  Eventually I missed a couple putts and just basically turned the tied in the match.
Q.  This is similar to '99; you're going to need a pretty remarkable comeback.  Do you think the team can do it?
TIGER WOODS:  We're going to have to obviously get off to a great start tomorrow and just hopefully it just snowballs and rolls.  You never know.  You never know what could happen.  Obviously, we're going to be very optimistic about our chances tomorrow, but we need to have guys just flat-out win matches, period.
Q.  When you get a crowd like today, it was phenomenal; I mean, it was the best crowd all week.
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, they were excited because we were playing well.  We gave them something to cheer about.

This afternoon, it was back to the where it was yesterday because we didn't -- we weren't up in matches.  You can't get the crowd fired up if there's no red on that board, and we didn't have that.

Phil and David played beautifully this afternoon.  They were up, they were down early and got up and just rolled.  But we just could not put enough red on that board all day.
Q.  What's going to be key for you tomorrow?  If you can get that early momentum going?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, in '99, basically every guy was up in their match in the first five or six matches.  And we're going to have to do that and more.  It's going to need to be more than just the first five or six; it's going to need to be a lot of great guys playing golf tomorrow.  We've got to go ahead and take care of business and hopefully it will all work out.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT