THE RYDER CUP MATCHES
September 17, 2004
Chad Campbell
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Some thoughts, Tiger on the match this morning?
TIGER WOODS:  Well we played well.  We just didn't make enough birdies.  I mean, Geez, they made 8 birdies in 14 holes and birdied six out of the first eight holes.  That is awfully impressive.

But we were right there.  We were only one down.  I thought we could, if we could get it to even somehow that might turn the momentum.  We never got it to even.
Q.  Can you talk about the first tee, the excitement, the crowd, what you guys felt out there?
TIGER WOODS:  There certainly was excitement.  I was just somehow trying to put the ball in play with the right to left wind there.  It was howling off the left and that's all I was really worried about.  As you can see none of us hit the fairway, so it was a tough tee shot.
Q.  Talk about your match this afternoon?
TIGER WOODS:  We're excited about it, to go back out there and playing with two of my buddies over there.  And hopefully Phil and I can go out there and really play solid just like we did this morning and hopefully get a win.
Q.  Some thoughts on the round out there today.

CHAD CAMPBELL:  We really didn't play that well today.  We didn't -- we kind of left each other hanging a few times and didn't get, didn't give each other, get two looks on one hole.  We missed a few putts early and Darren was able to capitalize and made a few putts early and they got the lead early and we didn't make a birdie until like the 12th hole or something like that.  We both would have birdied that hole, so.  So without being able to win a hole, that's not too good.
Q.  You're a rookie on the team, can you talk a little bit about what it was like stepping on the first tee this morning.  Just share some of your thoughts there?

CHAD CAMPBELL:  Yeah, it was a lot different than anything you have ever done before.  So, yeah, it was pretty nervous getting started.  But once you got in the round, you know, it was kind of, we kind of got involved in that and just trying to hit good golf shots.  Kind of relaxed a little bit.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT