WGC NEC INVITATIONAL
August 19, 2004
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Tiger Woods, 3 under through 17 holes.  Why don't we go straight into questions.

How did you play?  Good start.
TIGER WOODS:  I bogeyed the first hole, not the greatest of starts.
Q.   I meant the round.
TIGER WOODS:  Not really.  Just throwing away too many shots out there.  I bogeyed the last two holes and making four bogeys like that is not really good.
Q.   How different did the course play?  Guys are talking about obviously it played
TIGER WOODS:  We've played it like this before.  It generally rains every year, so it's nothing new, but the golf course played extremely soft and very slow.  You could definitely be more aggressive off the tees.
Q.   Is it an advantage to be finished at least?  You've got to come back for one more hole?
TIGER WOODS:  I've got to come back.  It would be nice, yeah.
Q.   To be finished?
TIGER WOODS:  Yes.

They didn't start on time.  When they said 5:45, they started seven minutes late, and we would have been done with the 17th and on 18 right now.
Q.   Does that stop and go rhythm today mess with your game at all, the fact that it was delayed again, delayed while you were playing?
TIGER WOODS:  That's just part of playing the Tour in the summertime.  You're going to get some bad weather.  Actually I think we were pretty fortunate to get this many holes in because it definitely wasn't looking this afternoon like we were going to have a chance to even tee it up.
Q.   Before you got to the final two holes did you feel like you had something going?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I was playing well.  I just hit a poor tee shot on 16 and didn't hook my second shot enough, hit a hell of a third shot and a decent pitch and just completely misread the putt.

On 17, another poor tee shot left, and hit a good second shot to get to where I was, and a decent pitch, and I just hit a terrible putt.
Q.   On 16 and 17 it looked like you were having a pretty solid round off the tee, at least that's the way it looked.  Were you feeling that?
TIGER WOODS:  I was feeling I was playing well and throwing away too many golf shots.  When you make seven birdies on this golf course, that's not easy to do, and then you throw it right away with four bogeys, that's not very good.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT