PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2004
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIGER WOODS:  I don't think they put any water on the golf course last night.  The greens were faster, firmer, harder; it was a different golf course than we've played before.  It still provided for much more difficult putts, and when you look at the scores, the guys are not going low.  It's just set up that much more difficult.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:  Disappointed.  I didn't win.  I felt like I was playing so well coming into this event, and I just didn't -- I played decent on Thursday but putted atrociously, and that put me behind the 8-ball.  A lot of room that I had to make up and I just didn't quite get it all back.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:  I wouldn't say U.S. Open because I would hate to see what the USGA would do to this golf course.  I think the PGA did a wonderful job of setting this golf course up.  Kerry did a tremendous job with his entire staff, and the Whistling Straits staff did a great job of making it fair.  It has hard but it was fair.  Today was the first time we played the golf course firm.  If we had played all four days like this, it would have been very different.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:  I thought the golf course was fantastic.  We were all curious to see what it would be.  After 36 holes, we thought the winning score might be 1-over -- it's hard to believe, I was talking to Jay Haas on the putting green after 36 holes, and he's saying, we're thinking between 1- and 5-over would be the winning score, and here I am at 4-under par and I'm mad at myself for being 4-under.  It's just, we didn't really know what to expect and the golf course played very fair.
Q.  Can you talk about the golf fans of Wisconsin?
TIGER WOODS:  They have been great the entire week.  As I said, they were very excited to have an event here, and more importantly, they were very respectful.  The first few days with JD and Vijay, you could not ask for a better atmosphere to play in front of.
Q.  What's the frustration level of your second straight year without a major?
TIGER WOODS:  It's frustrating because I didn't win, simple as that.  I felt like I was playing so well coming into this event, and I was.  It's unfortunate that I just didn't continue that way, that first day when I played decent but putted so poorly.  It just put me so far back that it was very frustrating.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:  First day was mechanics.  Today I just didn't feel it at all.  To feel that poorly[] over a putt is just very unusual, especially this year.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:  No, because playing as well as I did at Flint -- (inaudible) -- I felt like I was playing so well coming into Flint and I played well at the Western the last 36 holes, the British and then here.  Then Flint -- but coming in here, I felt like things were really shaping up well, and it just didn't happen.
Q.  Given that, how much will you be looking forward to the Masters next year and will it be a long winter?
TIGER WOODS:  No, we have some big ones coming up; we have two World Golf Championships, a TOUR Championship and a Ryder Cup.  There's four big events coming up and hopefully I can play the way I've been playing and get it together.
Q.  The pin placements today, did it make it more interesting, like 12 on the back?
TIGER WOODS:  12 wasn't back because it was downwind today and it's just pitching wedge.  If we played -- (inaudible) you have to hit a little chip 6- or 7-iron in there, little different story.

Coming home was pretty tough, from 14 on in, playing into the wind.  Seemed a little down off the tee.  But it's a very interesting finish because of the wind being into your face coming home.  16, you drive the ball in the wind in play to keep birdie, today it's not that at all.  You have to hit two awesome shots to get there in two.
Q.  When you go back to work on your game, what area will you focus on?
TIGER WOODS:  My putting.  I just did not putt well this week.  Look at the stats.  I feel like I had about 200 putts this week, but I just did not putt well.  My speed was off.  Speed and line off, that's not a good combo.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:  Well, I was hitting a lot of fairways, hitting the ball close and making a lot of putts (laughing).  That's basically what I was doing.  There's no substitute for getting on a roll.  Look what Phil's doing this year.  Kenny Perry did it last year for a little bit.  Ernie did it this year or most of the year.  You get on these little runs.  That little stretch where I played well for about, five majors, four or five majors there, I was on my little run.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:  As I said, I would love to come back.  I just haven't done it yet unfortunately.  There's no doubt I will be back some day.
Q.  Did you like playing this course and where would you rank this course with others major venues?
TIGER WOODS:  I don't know.  It's so different, because we played it under different winds every day, coming out of the north and now out of the south, we played under completely different winds.  You figure that the north wind would be the most different; actually it's this wind today.  If the golf course would have played drier for the entire week, I think it would be an unbelievable test to try to get under par.  The golf course was soft the first couple of days, the greens were very receptive.  Most major championships they tend to repel.  (Inaudible.)

The overall venue, I think it's a fantastic setup.  Kerry Haigh did a fantastic job.  The weather just didn't cooperate the first few days.
Q.  Now that you know the course, would you like another crack?
TIGER WOODS:  I don't know when they are coming back here, but hopefully I'm still eligible to play in the tournament.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT