PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2004
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
How aware were you of what the cut was?
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I didn't ask, I figured probably it would stay at 1, the way it was looking.  And I don't know what it is.  Did it stay at 1?  Stayed at 1.

There were so many guys at 1 over par, it was tied for.  2-over par was tied for 80th when I went out, so I figured that there would be ten guys that would go the other way so I needed to get back down to 1 somehow.
Q.  How much were you thinking about it?
TIGER WOODS:   I was thinking about it a little bit because I wasn't playing well.  If I was playing well it would be no big deal, just try and get myself in contention for the weekend, but I wasn't playing well.  I had to somehow just grind it out and be patient and hopefully things would come around, and they did.  I started hitting the ball better on the back nine and started to hit some shots where I wanted to place it and from then made a few putts.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:   Hopefully it will blow like it did yesterday and the guys don't shoot the scores they shot yesterday, and I can shoot one of those.  The wind was changing out there.  When we played 15, 16, it was starting to change, almost wanting to come in our face.  Actually it did come in our face a little bit on 15, which was really weird.  And then it went back down to being down again, so you could tell it wanted to change, and hopefully it will blow hard tomorrow.
Q.  Do you take prideÂ  --
TIGER WOODS:   I take pride in how I was playing.  I tee it up with the intent of giving it everything I've got.  I don't leave anything left on the golf course.  I try as hard as I can.  I've always done that.  I think that's one thing I'm most proud of is that I've never bagged it.  I've never dogged it.  I've tried hard from the first hole all the way to the 18 when I finish out.
Q.  What do you think it will takeÂ  --
TIGER WOODS:   I just need to play one of those rounds somewhere in the mid-60s and I should be all right.
Q.  Was that some of your better scrambling?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, that was interesting, wasn't it?  It's a hole where you lay it up down there and you've got an easy third shot and you can probably make birdie, and here I am, I've got about a 10-footer for par.

You know, I'm grinding on that putt and made it in there and just try to keep this momentum going, just take little baby steps, build on one shot.  I hit one positive putt and built on it, hit another good shot on the next hole and just build on it.  That's kind of how it all started.
Q.  The last two holesÂ  --
TIGER WOODS:   I played, I hit probably one poor shot on 15 tee, but from 12 on in, I really hit the ball well.  So that was the only poor shot I hit was on 15 tee.  So other than that, I felt like I was hitting well coming in.
Q.  Any adjustment with that?
TIGER WOODS:   You know, there really wasn't.  I just got in -- I felt something.  I didn't know what it was.  I just said, I feel this, just try and duplicate this.  And it wasn't anything real mechanical.  I was just trying to duplicate that feeling.  That's why I was taking so many practice swings, trying to find it, and I found it a little bit.
Q.  What did your little smile mean when Vijay nearly made that one putt on 18?
TIGER WOODS:   Are you kidding me, how hard that putt was?  He's got an elephant burial ground he's got to go through, and he almost holed it.
Q.  Talk about the second shot on 15, what you hit.
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I had 230 to the hole and I had 5-iron.  I was just trying to play it from the front edge to maybe the front half of the green.  I couldn't take a chance and hit a 4-iron and maybe catch the lip coming out, so I just hit a 5 and tried to hit as high as I can and let the rim be my friend.  I got to the front edge and then had my work cut out for me from there.
Q.  How bad was the lie on 18?
TIGER WOODS:   It's one of those lies where in the practice rounds, Stevie would somehow find that for me to practice on.  Usually he rolls it up against some tougher grass and steps on it; that's basically what it looks like.  I don't know how I spun it.  I don't know how I even made contact.  I just tried to chomp on it and hopefully get it on the green somehow.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:   I tell you what, I was talking about this with JD and then Stevie said the same thing.  Probably some of the most respectful galleries we've ever played in front of.  They are excited but they are respectful, which is really cool.  Love their enthusiasm, but they are so respectful all the way around for all three of us.  You definitely could feel them, hoping I would actually make a decent swing and a decent putt.
Q.  The handshake between you and Steve at the end, it almost looked like two businessmen closing a deal.
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, we worked very hard on the back nine trying to plot our way along, and we just stayed very focused and very committed to what we were trying to do.  It was a nice team effort coming in.
Q.  An average person might not understand the level that you guys play at, the cut streak, maybe don't appreciate it.  Can you talk about that?
TIGER WOODS:   It's not really talked about unless I'm pretty close to missing it (laughter).  No, it's one of those things where it'sÂ  -- yeah, I'm very proud of it.  I think maybe people do take it for granted because it's not very easy to do and it's lasted a few years.  Not too many people have been able to play as consistent as I have for a longer period of time.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT