PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2004
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Tell us about your round, Tiger.
TIGER WOODS:   Well, got off to a nice start and then ran into a little bit of a problem there for a little bit.  Just I didn't hit the ball all that poorly, but I sure putted bad.  All of the short putts I missed, and just putted atrociously today.
Q.  How would you characterize the conditions?
TIGER WOODS:   A lot easier.  On a lot of the holes , I hit 2 iron, wedge on 18 and John Daly and I were talking about we were hitting the wrong club off the tee.  We probably should be hitting 3 iron or 4 iron off the tee.

No. 8 was playing like 50 yards up where it normally is.  Normally hitting driver and a 4 iron and today I'm hitting a 9 iron so it's playing totally different.
Q.  Inaudible?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I am.  No doubt about that, wanted to shoot under par but didn't do it.
Q.  Inaudible?
TIGER WOODS:   You can get it going here, there's no doubt about that.  The greens are soft, the balls are holding and if you're hitting the ball well, you can get the ball in there close.  Obviously those guys , you can be aggressive, with the tees up on a lot of the holes you can knock down further than you normally would especially in the practice rounds.
Q.  On this course, what do you have to do?
TIGER WOODS:   Putt better.  Like I said, all of the normal, short putts I missed, I'd be shooting under par.  Unfortunately it just didn't work out.
Q.  Did it throw you for a loop with the scores?
TIGER WOODS:   It was a little bit.  Especially 18, for instance, that hole is playing downwind and with the tee up on a downwind hole it just doesn't make sense.  I can understand if they put the tee up on 18, it's playing straight in our face, 17 all the way up.  I thought they played the front of the back tee but they didn't do that, they moved it up even further.  We had different lines on a lot of the holes.
Q.  Inaudible?
TIGER WOODS:   I don't know.  I really don't know.  The PGA generally doesn't do what the USGA does, change the golf clubs on us.  So it will be interesting to see what they do.
Q.  What happened on the 11th?
TIGER WOODS:   11th, guy took a picture on my downswing.
Q.  How were the fans today?
TIGER WOODS:   This was great.  They were into it.  They were supporting not only myself, but John and Vijay.  It was a great atmosphere to play in front of.  It was just a lot of fun.
Q.  Can you compare it to other majors?
TIGER WOODS:   It's more of a British Open atmosphere because the crowds are so far away from the greens.  Especially with a links style golf course, they are not really next to the tee boxes and not next to the fairways and not next to the greens.  It feels a little bit like that, especially with the weather being cool like it is.
Q.  Did you notice less gallery movement since they are staying on holes?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, no doubt about it.  It would be brutal trying to walk all 18 holes following one person, just because I think the chances of you getting hurt are pretty good.
Q.  Are you guys going to get this course     inaudible?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, except for those tee boxes that are moved up.  Stevie and I were talking about that with JD, walking down 8, we never knew there was a tee box over there.  We were playing into the wind all week from the back tee.  That was the only hole that really threw you off.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT