BUICK OPEN
July 30, 2004
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Maybe could have been lower, but are you pleased?
TIGER WOODS:   I played well again.  I just have not played the par 5s very well at all.  It's been very disappointing, the par 5s, but overall, I played beautifully.
Q.  Talk about your shot on 9.
TIGER WOODS:   Well, just trying to hit a nice little soft 7 iron in there and hit a nice shot.  It came out just the way I wanted it to.  I'm surprised it spun that much but I'll take it.
Q.  How much was the rain a factor on the greens?
TIGER WOODS:   It softened them up a little more which is hard to believe.  Again, you had to worry about actually spinning the ball back too much.  We are hitting 6 irons and 5 irons into the par  3s, and you're still backing the ball up about ten feet.

So, I mean, when you have any kind of wedge or 9 iron in your hand, you've got to be very careful, and a lot of times I just hit one or two clubs more and chipped it up there.
Q.  What's not right on those par 5s?
TIGER WOODS:   Well, considering that they are all reachable and I've played them 1 under par, that's not very good.
Q.  Are you pleased with your position?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I am.  I'm right there, I'm two shots back, maybe three or four, depends on how the day ends up.  You know, if I can just play the way I've been playing, you never know.
Q.  16, the short chip and the putt, was that as frustrated as you were today?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, because you know, I hit two nice shots in there and a 3 wood just right of where I wanted to but it's not that bad.  It was an easy flop shot because I had a great lie and I just cut it too much.  The greens, as soft as they are, all I have to do is line the ball anywhere around that flag and it's just going to plug, and I didn't even line it on the green.  So that's why it was so disappointing.
Q.  What part of your game did you feel most confident with?
TIGER WOODS:   I feel confident about everything today, which was great.  I felt the same way I did yesterday and I just need to do that the next two more days.
Q.  Do you care at all about who else is on the leaderboard?  Is it more fun when you see Vijay, John Daly, Jim Furyk?
TIGER WOODS:   There are some good names, but no matter who is on the board, you're going to have to make a bunch of birdies.  It's just the way, the nature of this golf course and tournament.  You can't go out there and make a bunch of pars.  You just have to go out and be aggressive and make birdies.  Granted, you have some big names up on the board, but they have to be doing the same thing; they have to make a lot of birdies.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT