BUICK OPEN
July 29, 2004
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TIGER WOODS:   I didn't play the par 5s particularly well but I thought I hit the ball decent and made a few putts.
Q.  A lot of low scores; is it pretty good conditions?
TIGER WOODS:   The greens are soft and the wind didn't start blowing till probably the last three holes for us.  It was probably as easy as we've ever seen it here, because the greens are so soft, you can back up 5 irons and 6 irons into the par  3s.  There's usually not the case here.
Q.  How many drivers did you hit today?
TIGER WOODS:   Quite a few actually.  I'd say maybe ten today.

Coming in, because it was playing downwind, but most of the holes I hit driver, because the ball is just plugging out there.  It's not going anywhere.
Q.  You're an aggressive player anyway, a course like this, do you play that much more aggressively?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, you probably shade it maybe a yard or two closer to the flag than you normally would.  Generally I missed it on the fatter side, but also a little bit closer.
Q.  In the first nine when you have to crouch under a tree to get a save like you did, I think it was 14, how does that compare to a birdie on a day like today?
TIGER WOODS:   On that hole, even though I made a good save for par, it feels like making a bogey there because it's drivable.  I can launch it on there with a driver if I just hit it straight.  I had to scramble for par but it was also nice to keep the round going, too.

I made a good save on my 17th hole which is my eighth hole.  It's nice to make a bogey today because it's not playing so easy.
Q.  That shot last year    inaudible?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I felt bad for the kid.  That wasn't a bad shot.  It wasn't that far right but the wind was going a little left to right and twisted over there.  You could hear it from the tee.   I thought it might have hit the tree but it was actually his head.  Felt bad for the kid.  But there was no blood.  It was just an acorn on his head.  He was all right.
Q.  Could you tell the difference in the greens and do you think it will change dramatically?
TIGER WOODS:   No, it won't change.  The greens are still too soft.  You can still hit irons in there and know you have to actually try to take the spin off a lot of shots.  A lot of the holes I hit, maybe one club more to take the spin off.  You have to try to play the ball flatter than now actually.  You usually try to get the ball in the air because it's usually springing, but today it's a little different.

I'm sure they will dry up a touch but they will be pretty soft the entire week.
Q.  You do expect the scoring to be real low?
TIGER WOODS:   Everyone knows that.  Everyone knows you have to make birdies here.  You can't sit around par; you have to make some birdies.
Q.  Before a round, do you figure if you post a score     inaudible?
TIGER WOODS:   Today going out, you figure, you take care of the par  5s and maybe birdie one or two more.  You should shoot 5 , 6 under par.  I didn't take care of the par 5s .
Q.  Do you tell yourself what you want to do each day?
TIGER WOODS:   You try to.  A lot of times, you may adjust during the round because I see how hard the pins are, or sometimes the pins are not that hard so you adjust it so you can go play a little lower.
Q.  Inaudible?
TIGER WOODS:   It's important to me because there's a lot of pride involved.  There's a lot of times when I hit it just God awful and somehow got it around and made the cut.  Other times, I've gotten very lucky and made the cut, too.  The scores have come back.  So I think it goes to show you that I always try as hard as I can.  I never give up.  I never bag it.  I play hard from the first time I put the peg in the ground to the last putt.
Q.  Inaudible?
TIGER WOODS:   Without a doubt.  Yeah.
Q.  I know you're no stranger but can you talk about that moment on 8
TIGER WOODS:   There were quite a few people on that hole.  The people here are fantastic.  Feels like     Kenny Perry probably said it best the other day, I saw it on TV, it was kind of like a hometown atmosphere.  It's very family oriented.  You see the same people every year, and I've been coming here since  '98 and seeing the same people on the same holes, camping out, and you get to know them a little bit.  So it's kind of cool.
Q.  You were talking with John Daly    inaudible?
TIGER WOODS:   We were actually talking about how he's playing and Battle of the Bridges Monday.
Q.  You appeared as if you were enjoying the round or smiling a little bit more, do you take the first couple of rounds and then maybe get serious come the weekend or what?
TIGER WOODS:   No, no.  When I put the peg in the round it's time to play.  You know, I've got a great pairing this week, mat and Paul are friends of mine, so of course you're going to talk a little bit.  Paul and I were talking mostly about fishing, it was pretty sweet.
Q.  Talk about the fans in Michigan, you've got the fans coming back here in September, too.  A big challenge for you to kind of play the best, especially coming into the Ryder Cup.
TIGER WOODS:   I would like to play well from here to the end of the year.  That's obviously the goal.  You've got to take it one step at a time but obviously the fans here are fantastic.  I'm sure it will be pretty good at the Ryder Cup in Detroit.  It will be a fun atmosphere.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT