CIALIS WESTERN OPEN
July 2, 2004
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIGER WOODS:  Whether it was off the tee or into the green, my irons, I pulled them left, lost them way right.  It's not a way to play this golf course.
Q.  Down the stretch, 6, 7 kept you in the tournament.
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, it's just a matter of always playing hard.  That's how I always play.  The old saying goes "you can't have the switch arm off, you've got to have it always on."  That's how I've always played.  Nothing changes.
Q.  With the conditions as good as they are today, it's surprising no one is going really low.  How hard is this course playing?
TIGER WOODS:  The greens are really springy.  It's hard to get the ball close, especially with these front pins.  When poa dries out a little bit, it gets this little spring to it.  It's not easy to get the ball close.  Now the wind is up a little bit and it's starting to swirl a little bit in the trees, and it's tough to get a direction where it's coming from.
Q.  What happened the second shot on 3?
TIGER WOODS:  I clipped the top of the tree, it came down, and my adventures began from there.
Q.  Of course you were worried about making the cut, but were you thinking about that on the back nine today?
TIGER WOODS:  I figured if I birdied the last five, I should put myself back at 2, and that would put me five off the lead.  That's kind of what I was focusing on, and I should have birdied the last four, but I missed on the last two holes, lipped out on both holes.
Q.  Where do you put your cut streak in terms of all your other accomplishments?
TIGER WOODS:  I think it's exactly where it is.  It is pride, pride in playing and always giving your best all the time because there's many times where I probably should have missed but I made it just through determination or luck, and sometimes the cut has actually come back towards me.

It's one of those things where you've got to always play hard.  One of the things that I've always believed in is that you don't try any harder because you try the same way all the time.

Whether I'm down the stretch in a major championship or trying to make a cut or trying to win a tournament, effort level doesn't change.  I don't try any harder because it's the same every time.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  It was hard, yeah, especially when my iron game is not very solid and it's sporadic.  I just had a hard time getting up there and putting the ball where I wanted to put it.  The only thing that was going well was my driver and my 3-wood.  Any time I had a wood in my hand, it was like, finally, I can put a ball in the fairway.
Q.  What are your thoughts on the weekend?
TIGER WOODS:  Hopefully the leaders don't go off and hide.  Loren has a chance to basically run away with this thing if he wants.  If he doesn't do that, there are a lot of guys right there with a chance.
Q.  It's an unusual round for you to be 2-over par in a place where you've always played well.  Like 3 and 4, birdie-birdie yesterday, bogey-double today.  Are you kind of scratching your head on that?
TIGER WOODS:  A few years ago I did the same thing and I think I finished Top 10 that year, so it was kind of the same way.  I really grinded it out coming in just to make the cut then, and same way this year for some reason.  As I said, I just wish I would have hit more 3-woods and drivers.  That's the only thing I can do.  From 100 yards out it's hard to hit a finesse 3-wood.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  I've experienced it once and didn't like it very much.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  I think so.  I think with today's competition and as low as the cuts go nowadays, sometimes we've got cuts of 4-under par.  That's pretty tough.  It just goes to show you that you've got to have a little luck on your side as well as some consistency and some hard work.
Q.  Has the course toughened up enough where it would prevent someone from running away and hiding?
TIGER WOODS:  More than likely 2 has got a really good chance of getting in.
Q.  How do you like the new driver?
TIGER WOODS:  I like it a lot.  I'm hitting it well, much longer, and I'm able to -- it's weird having a big head like that, though.  I've never had a huge head before, so it's different.  You've got to hit the ball on a different part of the face with this bigger head, so it's taking some time to get used to.
Q.  Is there a difference in it, just the size?
TIGER WOODS:  The shaft is different, and when you go to a little bit lighter shaft -- it's not that much lighter.  My steel shaft is 119, this was 110 gram graphite, so it's not that much of a difference.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT