EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 16, 2004
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Did you think it was in on 18, Tiger?
TIGER WOODS:  In what?  I couldn't see it.  The bunker blocked my view so I could only go off of what the gallery was whooping and hollering over.

I thought it might have had a chance.  I didn't know if it was short of the hole or went past the hole.  The board was showing it.  I think I needed to get to probably at least 11, and then I looked at the board and 10 was a potential playoff.  I knew I had to make it.
Q.  How disappointed are you after today?
TIGER WOODS:  A little bit disappointed because obviously I didn't play well, and I had a chance, even as poorly as I played.  I lipped out that putt there on 16, made a good putt on 17 and had a putt on -- a nice par on 18 and it wouldn't have been good enough, so it came down to one shot.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  Well, I played well on the back nine.  I hit some better shots.  You know, just one of those things where I needed to try to keep it going, give myself looks at putts because I felt like I was rolling the ball well, but when you're trying to make 30- and 40-footers for birdies you're not going to make very many of them, and unfortunately I made one on 17 at least to give myself a chance.
Q.  Obviously you had trouble getting it in the fairways, but the fact that you were missing fairways but still had a chance to compete, does that outweigh the negativity of not getting it in the fairway?
TIGER WOODS:  I'll tell you, it was frustrating I wasn't able to hit fairway, but on top of that, I hit good shots that were landing in the fairway and were running into the rough.  I hit four shots that did that.  That was frustrating because good shots were not ending up in the fairway and obviously bad shots shouldn't be in the fairway, so it was a Catch-22 there for a while.

I tried to be as patient as possible and just tried to hang in there and give myself some looks somehow.  Eventually I got some positive feelings going.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  I was because it was only 295 to the front and it was downwind left to right.  I could hit it that far, that's not a problem, but it's where I would have to miss it.  If I miss it up on that slope over there, that's an impossible shot just to try and keep on the green.  Maybe I should have gone for it.  I made bogey anyways.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  No, because it's where I would have to miss it.  I mean, missing it on that hill with that rough, you couldn't keep the ball on the green.  You had to have put it in the bunker to at least have had a chance, and that's still a tough shot.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  I don't know.  I mean, that's the thing about playoffs, you don't know.  Anything can happen.
Q.  Is your game almost there right where you want it to be?
TIGER WOODS:  It is close.  It is close.  I show signs of it, and then if I would just get just a little bit more consistent with some shots, I would have been all right.
Q.  Do you like having the scrutiny of everyone expecting you to win every tournament?
TIGER WOODS:  No.
Q.  Why?
TIGER WOODS:  I don't think you would like it if everyone judged you on your writing skills, either.
Q.  How are you going to prepare for the U.S. Open?
TIGER WOODS:  I have one more tournament, Memorial, and hopefully my game will be ready for the U.S. Open.
Q.  Is Colonial losing some of its prestige?  You're not playing there.
TIGER WOODS:  I don't know.  You've got to ask the other players that.
Q.  Why aren't you playing there?
TIGER WOODS:  You just said it.
Q.
Should golfers play any course whatsoever?  I'm just curious.
TIGER WOODS:  I'm asking you why.
Q.  It's not like you would have -- I would think the game would fit any golfer.  I'm just curious.
TIGER WOODS:  Hey, that's the beauty of being an independent contractor.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT