EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 15, 2004
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
(Inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, it was.  You know, as I said to the guys earlier, I was 2-over par early but I didn't miss a golf shot, so from that standpoint it was positive that I knew I could get it back, just keep playing the way I'm playing.  I knew I could get back to even par hopefully by the turn, which would have been great, and then hopefully shot under par on the back nine, put myself in double digits, didn't quite do that, but at least I left myself with a chance come tomorrow.
Q.  Were you setting yourself up for another Tiger Sunday finish?
TIGER WOODS:  I don't know.  I will finish tomorrow, so Tiger will finish on Sunday.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  Who said that?
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  Oh, really?  I don't know.  I have no idea.  I didn't think I was playing that bad, am I?
Q.  Do you have a sense with Sergio up on the leaderboard that -- (inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  There's so many names, so many players that have got a chance that I think we need to go out there and just play golf and see where we are on the back nine.  Sergio is playing well, a lot of the other guys on that board are playing well, too, so hopefully it will be an exciting round of golf tomorrow.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  I usually do but I've got to see what the weather conditions are.  I don't know where the wind is going to be coming out of, how strong they're blowing.  If they're blowing like they were the first two days, it'll be a different story.
Q.  With today's conditions was today's round disappointing?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, a little bit.  The wind wasn't blowing that hard.  You could see some of the guys that went off early posted some pretty good numbers, but all in all, the leaders didn't really do a whole lot, either.

The wind was swirling out there a little bit, and it never really found a direction.  That's what made it a little bit more difficult to get committed on some shots.
Q.  Do you walk away a little bit disappointed today?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, a little bit.  Encouraged and disappointed, as well, because I got it back.  I could have slipped it away and shot myself right out of the tournament.  I battled back, got myself right there in the mix, and hopefully I can play better than I did today.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  The one by the tree wasn't that hard.  It was on the hard path.  The ground was hard, and any time the ground is hard, you can always shape it, so that wasn't a big deal.

The one on 18 was a guessing game.  I tried to just play it left of the hole somewhere, and tried to land the ball short of the green and it actually kind of squirted off to the right a little bit.  If I hadn't been aiming left, the ball would have been in the bunker.  That was a nice little break.  It kicked straight, too.  It could have easily kicked right and landed right in the bunker, but it kicked forward and I had a nice putt at it.
Q.  Is your gallery here unique at all?
TIGER WOODS:  The weekends are about normal.
Q.  Size-wise?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, about normal.
Q.  How much do you pay attention to that?
TIGER WOODS:  They're out there supporting us and it's great to have that kind of support out there.  You know, all the fans are here to have a good time, and we're out there trying to post some good numbers.  But they appreciate good golf shots, which is cool.
Q.  Do you play differently on a Sunday when you're in contention -- (inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS:  No, it's just the last day of a tournament and I try and win the tournament.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  I think you play one shot at a time, that's it.  You never dwell on the past, you never think of the future.  You know, you've heard this a million times from us golfers, you always try to stay in the present.  That's how you have to play.  You know, you try and put yourself in positions to make birdies, and sometimes there's a stray shot here and there and then you try and make pars.  You just stay in the present and move on.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  Oh, yeah.  You've got to get committed to the next shot.  Of course you should be frustrated, you didn't hit a good shot.  If you're happy about that, there's something wrong with you.
Q.  Do you enjoy playing with Mark?
TIGER WOODS:  Oh, it's a blast.  We haven't played together in a while.  Maybe might have been Muirfield on Saturday I think the last time we played, so it's been a long time.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  No, we're out there battling, but we're also rooting for each other, too.  He's like my big brother.  I want him to play well, and I know that I have a lot more years out here to contend and win tournaments, whereas he doesn't, and I always want to see him play well.
Q.  Do you ever say if he's stuck, hey, let's get it going?
TIGER WOODS:  We both said it all day, let's hang in there.  Mark is a grinder.  He stays very even keel out there and he just moves on about his business and gets the job done, very professional, and that's one of the things you have to admire.
Q.  Is it nicer out here than when you played with him at Muirfield?
TIGER WOODS:  Oh, ya think (laughter)?
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  I three-putted the second hole and the wind caught my ball on the fifth hole, and it was two yards from -- if the wind doesn't blow, it isn't going to stop.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT