PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2018
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (No Microphone.)
TIGER WOODS: The overall day, I feel like I played well today.  I played 29 holes, made -- I think I dropped three shots today and two of those were 3-putts.  I feel -- I thought I played really clean cards, really clean rounds.  And I just wish I could have got myself a couple more shots closer to the lead, especially with 17 the way it's playing, they're moving the tee way up like that.  18's playing pretty short as well.  So I'm sure that I'll be more than just four back by the end of the day, but there aren't a lot of guys up there in front of me.
Q. Given your huge experience winning Majors over the years, what's it going to take to get this one done?
TIGER WOODS: Another low round.  The golf course is playing soft, it's gettable, you have to make birdies.  Look at that front nine.  Seemed like everybody was between 2- and 4- or 5-under par.  That's just the nature of the way it's playing right now.  It's soft, it's plugging, we're able to hold 4-irons, 5-irons, whatever we want, at the flags.  Because of that, you got to make birdies.
Q. What would number 15 mean to you?
TIGER WOODS: A long way to go before that happens.  As I said, I got to shoot a low round tomorrow and hopefully it will be enough.
Q. (No Microphone.)
TIGER WOODS: I'm tired.  I am definitely tired.  29 holes, it's not necessarily the physical, it's this mentally grinding that hard for 29 holes in this heat.  It was a long day.
Q. Are you going to be working tonight?
TIGER WOODS: No, I'm done.  I'm done with the golf side of it today.  I've had enough.
Q. Are you disappointed that it's playing so soft?
TIGER WOODS: Well, it takes the creativity of the greens away, for sure.  The putts are very straightforward, they don't break very much, and just go ahead and take a rap at them.  So there's no feeding putts, there's -- there aren't putts that you're afraid that they're going to get away from you.  We don't have any, the greens are too slow and too soft for that.
Q. What about 17?  Did you just give that too much to try to make it?
TIGER WOODS: Well, if you look at it, I left pretty much every single putt short on the back nine.  The greens were getting fuzzy, they're getting slow, and I didn't hit the putts quite hard enough.  And I made sure on 17 I did.  And I blew it by about four feet and then pulled the next one.
Q. You have seen a lot of big crowds, how does this St. Louis crowd compare in your experience?
TIGER WOODS: They have been unbelievable.  Not only supportive, but just so positive.  They have been on -- they have been supportive of all of my playing partners and myself these first three rounds and it's been a pleasure to play in front of them, it really has.  Hopefully, we can come back soon.
Q. Do you remember a major with greens this slow?
TIGER WOODS: Tulsa.  They were slow.  9 and 18 were totally different speeds, they kept them another foot slower because of the pitch on those greens.
Q. You mentioned you had a couple mental hiccups.  Is 17 a case of that?  Is that because of the 29 holes?
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I'm a little bit tired.  17 was just, I left every putt short.  I got to give it a rap up the hill, it's steep, I know that -- there wasn't a whole lot of grass over there on the right side of the green and I thought that I should have played it faster than what I was thinking.  I didn't do that, I rapped it past the hole and missed the putt.
Q. Second consecutive low round, you're right in the mix, coming from behind, what's it going to take tomorrow?
TIGER WOODS: It's one of those things where I'm going to be back behind the lead probably at least four now, possibly more by end of the day.  And tomorrow, not just myself, but everyone's going to have to shoot low rounds.  Its soft, it's gettable and you can't just go out there and make a bunch of pars, you're going to have to make some birdies.
Q. Can you describe your emotions when you were shooting so low and your exuberance.  Can you put it into words?
TIGER WOODS: It was fun.  I got off to a good start, I birdied the first couple of holes there and I dropped one at 6 -- sorry, 5 -- and then got it right back at 7, 8.  And that's, that was nice to be able to do something like that.
Q. Your tempo was so on today with your irons.  What did it feel like to you today?  What did it feel like with your tempo today?
TIGER WOODS: Well, I felt like it was one of those days that if you ask, you ask the players, you have, you know, one of those days or one of those rounds where it seems like everything is like a full shot.  It's not the half club.  And I wasn't stuck between clubs all day today.  It just was one of those days where it's like, okay, yeah, it's maybe just a couple yards off an 8, a couple yards off a 7, maybe a little a couple yards more.  But it wasn't like, okay, is it one of these two clubs.  I didn't have any of those today.  Consequently, I feel like I could free wheel it because I was, I had good numbers all day.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT