MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2004
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Is your golf swing an issue?
TIGER WOODS:   No.  I'm very close to putting it all together.  I made actually nothing today.  I just need to make a few more putts, get the ball a little closer to the hole, and it will be all good.
Q.  Same plan for tomorrow?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, same thing.  Put the ball in the fairway and put myself up there.  I have 18 chances at it, and hopefully I putt better than did I today.  If I putt like I did yesterday, I'll be all right.

The middle part of the back nine really hurt me a lot.  I was 2 over par on the periphery, but if I could have birdied the two par 5s and maybe get one more I would be right where I needed to be, under par.  I made double there on 13 and I bogeyed 14.
Q.  What's the biggest thing that went wrong?
TIGER WOODS:   You know, I was just a little off.  I made actually nothing today.  You put that together, it's tough to shoot a good number.  As I kept telling Stevie, I kept missing the knobs by a yard.  Balls that should be rolling back towards the hole or decent shots.  I hit a good shot into 8 and I had no shot at it.  I don't know what I'm going to do, play left or play right.

It's just one of those days where a lot of little things like that added up, and from there I just didn't make any putts.
Q.  Is it starting to grind on you at all?  Seems like you'll have one good day and give it back and then a good day and give it back.
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, it's frustrating because I'm so close to putting it together.  But on this golf course if you're just a little bit off you're going to pay the price.  And you have to putt well.  I made absolutely nothing today.

18 is a perfect example of that.  I hit two beautiful golf shots right in there, hit a nice putt and it lips out.  That's kind of how my whole day went.  When I put myself into position to make putts, I didn't make them, and when I needed to make them, then I didn't make them.
Q.  How did 13 unfold?  Where was your driver?
TIGER WOODS:   I hit my drive up to the right in the trees.  I punched out and caught a tree limb coming out.  I had a gorgeous     right at the flag, and it landed about a foot up on top.
Q.  What do you do for tomorrow?
TIGER WOODS:   I just need to go out there and get off to a good, solid start on the front nine.  If I can get it to even par or under par going into the back nine as my total, I'm right in the ballgame.  Because, as we know, anything can happen on the back nine here.  You can shoot yourself a really low number, and hopefully I can do that tomorrow.
Q.  Is that a weird feeling for you, to feel that anything can happen when you've won
TIGER WOODS:   Even when I was out in front and I've been leading, anything can happen.  You think that way because there's so much danger out there on that back nine, especially the holes that have been lengthened and they are playing a little bit more difficult.  You know, anything can happen.  So I've just got to be patient and see if I can get myself in there.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT