MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2004
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How did you play today?
TIGER WOODS:   I played really well this afternoon.  I hit just a lot of good golf shots and gave myself some looks at some putts.  Made a few.  Missed a couple short ones that I should have made.  But overall, I really hit the ball well.
Q.  Yesterday and today, how did yesterday go for you?
TIGER WOODS:   You know, every time I had to hit like a little holding shot, I would either pull it or block it.  My draws were good.  The pins were up on top, and when I needed to hit some holdies, I didn't do it well, and consequently I made a few mistakes.
Q.  What are the details on that run from 13 to 16?
TIGER WOODS:   This afternoon, I hit a 4 iron in there at 13, 2 putted about 40 feet.

15, I hit a 7 iron right of the green from the left rough and chipped it up to about eight feet and made it.

16, I hit just a gorgeous little 7 iron about eight feet left of the hole and ended up rolling down to the bottom and made about a 40 footer there.
Q.  How much break was in there?
TIGER WOODS:   Only about a foot.  Wasn't that much.  Actually, it was going right to left early and left to right at the end.
Q.  If there's no more rain, how hard will this course be?
TIGER WOODS:   It's going to play tough.  It will be really tough.  You saw it yesterday morning.  We saw in the practice rounds how fast this place was getting, and then we got some rain that slowed it down.  When we finished last night, it's the slowest I've ever seen the greens here.  But really I think they might have this little suction thing going on on the greens.  They sucked them dry.

They are getting up to speed again.  A couple putts you have to watch for or you will putt it off the green.
Q.  Given where you started this morning, as far back as you were, to be, say, six shots back with 36 to go, that's a pretty decent improvement.
TIGER WOODS:   Just have to take baby steps, slow and slow improvements.  I tried to get back to even par or under par through 36.  I thought that was reasonable.  I started out hitting great, and I just need to keep that momentum going.  I made a little hiccup there on 6 and missed a short putt for birdie and bogeyed 7.
Q.  Were you trying to jam that one on 6?
TIGER WOODS:   I just blocked it.  It's one of those putts that you're supposed to release it and I actually blocked it.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:   With the golf course playing like this, there's so many holes that you can put the ball right off the green.  Like on 16, 17, it's so easy to putt it off the green.  18 you can putt down the bottom shelf where I was, and I yanked mine short.  It's playing very difficult out there.  You can have some shots     also they have some new pins out there, too, which we have never seen before.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:   It's a long haul.  We all know that here.
Q.  What happened on 17?
TIGER WOODS:   17, I tried to hit a full 60 in there.  I got a little steep on it.  Obviously, it went way too far.
Q.  Playing 18 twice in one day, the stress, does that add to the toll of the tournament ?
TIGER WOODS:   Without a doubt.  It does play a big part in it.  You don't feel tired when you should feel tired.  18 holes, and then we're only playing, what, three or four holes in the morning.  Yeah, not too bad.
Q.  Do you give yourself a little motivation when you walk on 11
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I hit just a terrible tee shot and got a great break.  Then I tried to hit a little 6 iron and run it down the hill up on the green, and I hit that over to the right.  I had     I hit a good chip.  Then the putt was just a simple putt, just a ball outside the right, and then hit it.  I blocked the heck out of it.  It was just a terrible putt.

I had all of the momentum going at that time.  I'm 1 over par.  I played two par 5s under par and the rest even par.  It was a big putt I thought I had to make, but give me some kind of mo, and I didn't do it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT