THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 26, 2004
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Nice start.
TIGER WOODS:  That was nice, wasn't it?  I got off to just an ideal start, basically just played solid all the way throughout the day.
Q.  Did you feel like you were close to posting that number?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I said that last week.  And it's close, it's just a matter of getting more repetitions in my practice sessions and then going ahead and replicating that on the golf course.  It's in there, just a matter of doing it enough times.
Q.  You have to hit a few more fairways to get back in this thing, right, because you're making some saves?
TIGER WOODS:  You're right.  I hit some good drives, just got nailed by the wind that put it in the rough.  But other drives I hit pretty poor and didn't have a chance of being in the fairway.  It was a mixture of both.  But I was pleased the way I made swings off the tees.  A few of them weren't very good, but most of them were pretty solid, and with the right shape on them.
Q.  Obviously many of us were semi-hysterical about whether you would make the cut.  Obviously it's big news if you don't.  Can you explain why it is you are able to come out and start like you do today and stave off that second bad round when you might be off the ropes a bit?
TIGER WOODS:  I think it's just -- you just go out and have to grind it out and play -- you see, the thing is, guys, what you don't realize is it doesn't change for me, my effort level.  I play the same way whether I'm shooting 82 or 62.  I play the same way.  So when I go out there and I play, it's not like I'm trying any harder, I'm trying just the same.  Where other guys may not be that way, I play that way the whole time.
Q.  I don't think anybody, speaking for myself, is questioning whether you're trying hard, but somehow you're just able to -- whatever it is, you're able to execute when you have to.
TIGER WOODS:  I think it's because of that, because I'm always doing the same things.  I have the same type of focus on each and every shot.  So it doesn't change for me.  It's not

like this golf shot is more important than any other.  I treat every one as the same.  So it makes it easier in that regard.
Q.  Is it pride, stubbornness, all the above?
TIGER WOODS:  All the above.  You know how I am.  I take great pride in what I do on the golf course.  I go out there and give absolutely everything I've got.  Some days it's not very good, other days it's pretty good.

Today I really felt that I scored.  I didn't hit the ball as well as I probably needed to, but I scored.  And that's the name of the game.
Q.  The other day you were talking about your days as a cross-country runner, you keep on going.  Is that the way you are, you've just got to keep on going and just keep on doing it?  Is that the way you do everything?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, yeah.  You're right, you hit the nail right on the head right there.

One thing that people don't realize is what Nicklaus always used to say, and Hogan used to say this, too, you can't turn the switch on and off, you've got to always have it on.  So when you tee off on the first tee, you have to have the same effort level.  Whether it's the first tee or last tee on Sunday afternoon, it doesn't change.
Q.  Did you think about the cut off today?
TIGER WOODS:  I was trying to shoot 66.  I thought 3-under par would get me where I needed to be to try to win the tournament on the weekend.  I didn't do that, obviously.  But now I need to go out there tomorrow and post a good, solid number and put myself where I have a chance Sunday afternoon.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT