WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 27, 2004
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIGER WOODS:  I hadn't made anything two days ago, and it was nice to get up there and pour that one right in the middle and it gave me a lot of confidence.


Q.  The last six on the front nine you went 4 up and that may be as good a stretch of golf as we've seen from you in a while. 

TIGER WOODS:  I played well.  I played hard like I played at Rivvie on Sunday.  I just hope I can go out there and do the same thing for the rest of the week.


Q.  It's a little soggy.  Are you having any issues with mud balls or anything?

TIGER WOODS:  No, we have ball-in-hand.  I think the hardest part is trying to make sure you have enough club.  There were a couple times out there I had about 145, 140, and I was hitting 7-irons in there.  You've got to be aware of that.


Q.  Yesterday you had some chances early, it looks like. 

TIGER WOODS:  I did.  He made a couple mistakes early, made a couple bogeys and I went ahead and made a few birdies at the same time.  I made a huge putt at the second hole to get some kind of momentum going.  I didn't want to drop one there, and I won a couple holes after that. 


Q.  The putter must have been hot on the second hole, huh?

TIGER WOODS:  I felt good on the putting green today.  I felt like I was rolling the ball well.  I need to go out there and prove it to myself I can do it in competition.


Q.  It seems like the putt you made on 6 or 7 where he chipped in was kind of big.  Was that a change in momentum for him?

TIGER WOODS:  It looks like I'm going to win the hole and go 4 up and miss this little short one and all of a sudden I'm 2 up.  In match play that's huge to give him any kind of momentum, give him a shot right there.

He's a heck of a competitor, saw how well he played at the Hope this year and the U.S. Open last year.


Q.  We had a lot of matches on Wednesday go the distance in OT and today there's a lot of blowouts. 

TIGER WOODS:  You drive the ball in the rough, you can't get to the green.  Like I did on 10 today, I drove it in the rough, and that was as far as I could hit it.  I had 90 yards and I couldn't even get to the front edge of the green from 90 yards.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT