WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 25, 2004
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TIGER WOODS:  It was tough made I because some mistakes out there.  John played poorly at the beginning and he kept making mistakes, kept driving it poorly.  It was just one of those things where we kept putting ourselves behind the --

Q.  Did the match kind of turn when you were two down and you were in the rough and he was hitting after you and he hit the ball short, as well?
TIGER WOODS:  Not really, no, not really.  I think the match really turned right there on 17.  He still had control of the match.  If I don't stuff it in there and make that mistake, then it's a different story.

Q.  (Inaudible). 
TIGER WOODS:  I had about 171 to the hole.

Q.  Coming into 17 are you thinking I still have two holes?
TIGER WOODS:  I still have two holes, I can win one of the holes and force him into extra holes.  I needed to give myself two looks at birdies.  I did that on 17 and I did that on 18, and he conceded the one on 17 and 18 I made it.

Q.  You talk about match play being very exhausting.  Were you exhausted after this match?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, mentally because of the mistakes I kept making.  I drove the ball really well, then all of a sudden I hit these strangers.  It wasn't just a little off line, it was way off line, but I felt like I was really swinging the club well, and then these strangers come out of nowhere, so that was kind of frustrating, so I need to work on that for tomorrow.

Q.  You talk about getting through fixed matches and needing breaks along the way.  Is this one of them?
TIGER WOODS:  Oh, without a doubt.  I should have taken control of the match on 18 and 1.  I still think of it that way.  9 and 10, I should have taken the control of the match.  I had two good looks, missed them both, then made that mistake over to 11, so that was three holes right in a row where I just gave them to him.  I was awfully frustrated.

Q.  I was going to ask you, coming down around the holes there whatever they are, were you trying to make sure you didn't take yourself out of the hole?  Were you playing away from the pin?
TIGER WOODS:  I was.  I was trying to put myself up there and at least give myself a putt at it and force him to go ahead and win the hole.  I'm not going to make a mistake and give him a hole anymore.  I got tired of that.  I really tried to bear down and not make any more mistakes like that and put pressure on him to make a hole.

Q.  Do you at all feel bad for him?
TIGER WOODS:  I feel bad for the way he ended up on 18.  You know, 17, everyone basically does that.  When someone is in there tight and you try to make birdie and you make a mistake, that's acceptable, but I'm sure he feels bad making bogey with a sand wedge on 18.

Q.  Did you put the pressure back on him on 18?
TIGER WOODS:  No, I didn't, because I didn't put it close enough.  I was in 15 feet or so.  I needed to put that hole inside 10 below the hole to give myself a look and put the heat on him, but I didn't do that.  He just made uncharacteristic mistakes for him.

Q.  (Inaudible). 
TIGER WOODS:  I think it was.  He struggled today, as well.  Hit some shots -- upshot, lost it right, hit a couple pulls for drives.  I was doing the same things with my iron shots.  We were both struggling at the end.

Q.  (Inaudible). 
TIGER WOODS:  I came in flat with mine, and I could see him with it back in his stance trying to trap it in there.  Sometimes if you put it back in your stance you lose it a little right.

Q.  Obviously you made the putt on 18, but are you still fortunate you won today?
TIGER WOODS:  Oh, without a doubt.  The good putts I hit in didn't go in, and the bad putts weren't even close.  I thought I drove the ball really well, except for some strangers.  I hit three really strange drives, actually four.  Other than that, I felt like I hit the ball decent, just didn't make anything.

Q.  Would you win tomorrow if you played this round today?
TIGER WOODS:  It's match play.  You don't know.  You really don't know.

Q.  (Inaudible). 
TIGER WOODS:  Of course.  Who wouldn't be.

Q.  You still won. 
TIGER WOODS:  What person wouldn't be disappointed to play that poorly.

Q.  You talk about the size and the impact of the putt over here and there at the front.  I couldn't tell how far they were?  The par 4 over the water? 
TIGER WOODS:  About 15, I ran it by the hole, I made about a four-footer there, and I made about a five-footer on 16.

Q.  (Inaudible). 
TIGER WOODS:  I'm trying to make the putts.  The only one I didn't try and gun past the hole was 16.  15, I was trying to bury it.

Q.  (Inaudible). 
TIGER WOODS:  Into the wind, I have to hit a really good one in order to have a chance at getting there.  I hit driver, driver yesterday and then didn't get there.  Today I really had to hit a good one to get there.  I tried to step on it, blasted it way right.

Q.  But you were thinking --
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I knew that even if he hit a good drive -- he can get over the creek, but he can't get to the green.

Q.  There were like six or seven matches that went extra holes today.  Are you glad you're not one of them?
TIGER WOODS:  I suppose.

Q.  Is the shot on 17 the kind of shot that you're looking for?
TIGER WOODS:  I stepped up there and hit a nice little draw, rode the wind on that one, both of them.

Q.  What was the yardage?
TIGER WOODS:  71, 8.

Q.  (Inaudible). 
TIGER WOODS:  I have played with him a few times.  Trevor is a good dude, a great guy.  He's one of the nicest kids out there and I'm looking forward to playing with him.  He's solid.  He's made a lot of improvements, worked pretty hard.

End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT