MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2003
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  You played really well today.  But do you think the whole week was kind of an uphill struggle for you?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I guess you could say that.  It was just one of those weeks where I couldn't really get anything going for an extended period of time.  Day in and day out. 

Q.  What kind of body blow was at No. 3?
TIGER WOODS:  That cost me a lot right there.  A lot of mo, because I hit a great shot into 2.  And looking back on it I should have just played it back there and trusted my wedge game.  But the wind blowing as hard as it was down there in that corner with that same shot a couple days ago and then it was brutal to try and judge what was going on.  So it dropped down to the bottom of the hill and I had an easy pitch and I didn't make a very good swing at all. 

Q.  You hit driver there?
TIGER WOODS:  I did. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:  Not for the week, no.  No.  I drove it better yesterday, but pretty good today.  But, no, I just didn't drive it consistently enough or shape the ball correctly enough the entire week. 

Q.  What is the most difficult thing about winning this tournament three years in a row?  What happens to you?
TIGER WOODS:   It's not easy, Bud. 
(Laughter.) I guess that's it.  No one's ever done it, so obviously it's been proven it's not easy to do. 

Q.  Were you surprised No. 3 was the one that caused that kind of trouble?
TIGER WOODS:   With the wind swirling you get down in that corner, three, four and five, the wind's coming all different directions.  We played three into the wind right-to-left, played No. 3, downwind left-to-right.  Which it was playing the opposite of what it normally is. And then we played No. 5 the same way we had on No. 3.  So we had three different holes with three different winds.  And I didn't pull good clubs either.  So you compound the problem. 

Q.  Was there a point today when you realized that this isn't going to be your day?
TIGER WOODS:  I birdied nine.  I figured if I could go out and shoot 30 on the back nine, you never know.  And I just didn't do it. 

Q.  What did you hit into 2?
TIGER WOODS:  3-iron.

Q.  13?
TIGER WOODS:  13, I hit 5-iron.

Q.  It was a nasty hook, too?
TIGER WOODS:  That's the only way I could have played it. 

Q.  What did you use on No. 3?
TIGER WOODS:   I hit driver. 

Q.  And you wanted to use an iron?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, in hindsight.  Hindsight is always 20/20. 

Q.  You said yesterday people just expect you to just turn on a switch.  Obviously you can't do it.  You didn't do it today.  How big a disappointment is it for you today?
TIGER WOODS:   It's disappointing.  You can't feel that way, though, it's sports.  That's why we play.  We try to put ourselves in a position to win and you're not going to win every time.  You look at the greatest champions of all time and their winning percentage in all sports, it's not too good. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:  I didn't have the feel for chipping today.  No.  It was very reminiscent to how it was on the first day.  I just didn't have -- I don't know.  I just was trying to make contact.  The grass being as sticky as it is, if you make a mistake you're going to pay the price. 

Q.  Was that shot on three in the woods, could that be the turning point to get in there and dig that out like that?
TIGER WOODS:   Granted I hit a good shot to get out, but I also left myself one of the hardest shots there on the golf course.  And on top of that then I semi-bladed it.  So I kept compounding one problem after another.




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT