THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 30, 2003
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 TIGER WOODS:  I started out really well, and the first five holes I never missed a shot.  I just misjudged the wind over there on 4, which really cost me big time.  It looked like making 3 there and really getting going, and all of a sudden I make 6.

Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS: I hit a flat shot and when you hit a flat shot the wind can knock it down.  That's exactly what happened.  You can see it get up and then it just got knocked down instead of riding the wind.  If I would have hit the ball a little higher with the same speed I'm sure it would have rode the wind at got it there.

Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS: Exactly what you just described right there, Matt.  I had it going both ways unfortunately.  I couldn't quite get comfortable with it, but when I did I hit some great shots, but when I didn't I could hit it either way.  Given the conditions like that you have to hit the ball well, and I want able to do that for all 18 holes.

Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS: You look on 13, Bob hit first, his ball got knocked straight left, the wind was down on the right, and my shot gets up there and it knocks it to the right.  You wonder how, but that's the way it works out somehow.

Q.  When Allenby posted a 65, did you think at that point that that was a number that you could still shoot out there?
TIGER WOODS:  To get things going like
 I did towards the end and keep it going.  He played a great round, he got momentum on his side and kept going.

Q.  Do you just laugh a day like this off?
TIGER WOODS:  I could have stayed home and it would have been the same score, even par.  Instead I came out here and created a few more gray hairs.

Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS: I had 185 to the hole and I just ripped an 8-iron from out of there and just rode the wind, got it there and hit a good putt and made it, and went on to the next.

Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS: You know, I raked across it just enough to make it float instead of penetrate, and it was just enough for that ball not to get there.  If I would have hit that ball flush, it would have been there with no problem.

Q.  If I learned correctly yesterday you sauteed it?
TIGER WOODS:  No, I raked it.  It was just enough, but in a wind like this  -- it wasn't up, that's the thing.  It wasn't penetrating or it wasn't hit hard enough.  It was just enough for that ball to get knocked to the right.

Q.  Now that it's over and you've got Augusta, just so we know, health-wise, swing-wise how are you doing?
TIGER WOODS:  I feel good.  I need to get home and hit the weights and put my weight back on somehow.  Hopefully I'll feel a lot better than I do now.

Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS: It's cold up there right now.  What the hell, is it 40 degrees up there right now?  The forecast is supposed to be in the 40s up there, so that's not warm.

Q.  Is that the only thing that's on your mind for Augusta is getting your weight back on?
TIGER WOODS: My game is fine.  I know what I need to do.  It's just a matter of doing it and trusting it.  When I'm at home I'll get the reps in and I'll feel a lot more comfortable than I do now.

Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS: A lot different.  I was able to continue hitting the ball consistently throughout the entire round at Bay Hill.  I may have hit one here and there, but it was more consistent than it is right now.

Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS: Well, he's played well.  You know, he played three good rounds and one bad round can take him out of the tournament.  He needs to put four good rounds together and that's what he's doing this week.  He's been close to putting it all together and that's what he's doing this week.

Q.  Compared with Thursday, today how much better do you feel?
TIGER WOODS: I feel about the same.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT