U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2018
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tiger, how disappointing was that score today?
TIGER WOODS: Obviously, it is.  I didn't putt well today, and I thought I hit it -- I drove it pretty darn good for most of the day.  Just never really took advantage of the opportunities.  Making a triple and two doubles, not very good.
Q. Tiger, do you think it's more on you, or did the conditions lead to that?
TIGER WOODS: It's tough out there.  But, I mean, shouldn't make two doubles and a triple, four-putt.  No. 1, I hit it right through the wind and compounding my problem.  I actually hit a really good flop shot.  The wind actually knocked it down, didn't carry it.
Then hit two bad putts on 1 and 2.  For most of the day, I just didn't putt well.
Q. After that start, you managed to get it back for a while.  Did you feel like, when you got into the back nine, like you worked your way back in?
TIGER WOODS: Yeah.  All I had to do was just try to shoot -- after that start, shoot even par for the next 16 holes, and I'd be just fine.  The guys aren't going anywhere today.  We saw this, I think, 1 under is leading right now.  So just kind of keep hanging in there.  I kept reminding myself that Lanny almost pulled himself in a playoff in '86 with a round in the mid-60s on Sunday.  So it can be done.  This golf course is kind of setting up for that right now.
Q. How much of a turning point was 13, given the fact you were able to get back on track?
TIGER WOODS: It was not very good.  I was worried about running the putt by because it's downhill on the other side, left it short, blocked the next one, and then blocked it again.  Not very good.
Q. Tiger, the hallmark of your comeback so far has been having to play catchup, just kind of slow starts.  To what do you attribute that?  Is it still the back and just getting the feel?
TIGER WOODS: No.  I just didn't -- I just didn't get off to a good start today.
Q. Hit the fairway, though, so that was --
TIGER WOODS: As I said, I drove it good most of the day here.  I really did.  I just didn't do anything from there.  I hit a lot of good iron shots, but they were conservative.  And I just didn't putt well.
Q. Early in your return to the game, you -- I mean, obviously, you were saying you didn't know what to expect, having not played.  But you've been playing so well.  You've really been playing well.  In a way, does that it make it all that much more disappointing?
TIGER WOODS: It's frustrating because I hit the ball -- I'm hitting it well.  In the last, I think, four tournaments, I have not putted well.  So if I can putt like I did at the beginning of the year, we've got something.  I just haven't done that.
Q. Tiger, you saw, obviously, what was going on earlier today before you teed off.  Did it change your mindset at all?  Did you think more defensively or change a game plan at all, knowing what they were going through?
TIGER WOODS: We thought there were probably close to 7 to 9 birdie-able holes out there.  Now, with the wind blowing, that changed dramatically.  And, also, where they put some of these pins.  Just can't get to them.
So it was pretty evident nobody was making any birdies in the morning.  Lots and lots of bogeys and higher in others.  And so I -- my game plan was not to make any others, and I made three of them.  So didn't do very well there.
Q. Given your current position, what's the mindset going into tomorrow's round?
TIGER WOODS: Shoot something in the 60s tomorrow, and I'll be just fine.  I just think today was the toughest day we'll have all week.  But then again, I think they're going to let these greens firm out a little bit.  They'll start to pick up a little bit of speed, and it will be a good U.S. Open again.
Q. Thank you.
TIGER WOODS: Thanks, guys.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT