WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
March 1, 2003
Jay Haas
Scott Hoch
Jerry Kelly
Peter Lonard
David Toms
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  Give us a couple of comments about your round.  Tiger shot 8-under.
SCOTT HOCH:  I gave him his last birdie, which was about eight feet, which he made, because he hasn't missed anything like that yet.  He played extremely well.  And I made a mistake, and gave him one hole early and then I go and make a few birdies.  I birdied three out of four holes.  And then he birdies 10, eagles 11, birdies 12 and birdies 14.

Q.  Pretty good week, all in all, then?
SCOTT HOCH:  Yeah, I'm pleased.  I didn't give it to him, but obviously, like I said yesterday, I couldn't afford to give him anything.  And I did and it was tough.  It was tough, especially for me in the beginning, because the fairways are still wet, and we had to play down for the first time today.  Hitting 5s, 4s, and 3-irons on the front side with mud on the ball.  I was hitting my irons good, but when it's wet  -- it doesn't even have to have mud on it, but when it's wet from the dew and some mud on it, it's tough to control it.  If I can't hit good iron shots, and have good putts for birdies, then I'm going to have a tough time, and that's what happened to me on the front.

Q.  Pretty happy with your play?
SCOTT HOCH:  Yeah, this week, because last week was pretty bad.  But it started to come around.  It felt good to play well, and this is the second year -- not in a row, but two years ago I played Duval in the same quarters, in the morning, and he shot nothing in the morning.  He shot like seven or eight under also and beat me.  And so I've not been very fortunate.  I think he was No. 1 in the world at that time. 
And then obviously Tiger is going to be No. 1 in the world for a while.  He played a phenomenal round, and if he plays like that, there's no one here that can beat him.  He can't continue that.  He might slack off a bit and shoot 4- or 5-under the other matches, but it was phenomenal watching him today.  He had complete control of everything.



DAVID TOMS
Q.  Can you give me a couple of comments on your round today.  You obviously played very well.
DAVID TOMS:  I got off to a good start, and I was 4-under through the first ten holes.  And I was playing solid golf.  I made a couple of mistakes after that.  But I got up enough to where all I had to do was get it to the house, and I was able to do that.

Q.  You got off to a quick start today.
DAVID TOMS:  I made some good putts, and chipped in over there on what was it  -- 7?  And I hurt him at that point.  And then I birdied No. 1 to get, I guess, 6 up.  And then I lost my concentration on 11 over there, and hit it in the water.  And I let him get a hole there.  And I drove it a foot in the rough on the hole before this one.  I get confused on them.  But good golf today.

Q.  When you were six up at ten, you had had a little health issue there Friday morning, you contracted a little bit of food poisoning.  Were you trying to get the match over a lot earlier to give yourself a rest for the next 18?
DAVID TOMS:  Absolutely.  I mean as early as I could get done, the better for me to get some rest and get something to eat before we go out this afternoon.  Playing that many holes in one day is tough for me.  But hopefully, I can keep grinding it out and keep hitting solid shots and I'll be okay.

Q.  How do you will feel right now?  Are you able to keep your food down right now?
DAVID TOMS:  Absolutely.  I had a light dinner and light breakfast, and I'll have a light lunch, and see if that helps me out.

Q.  You'll play Darren Clarke or Peter Lonard.  What do you know about those players?
DAVID TOMS:  Well, I know Peter has played great golf the last couple of years.  He hasn't won on Tour, but he's played real solid golf.  Darren is a real world-class player who's won this event and played good on this golf course.  Either guy is going to be a tough opponent.



JAY HAAS
Q.  Jay, can I get a comment about your round?
JAY HAAS:  You know, I didn't play great, but I played okay.  I could have gotten away with it.  I was 1-under through 7, and then 3-putted 8, and then Adam birdied 9, 10, and eagled 11.  I lost four holes in a row right there, and just got too much behind, and then played kind of sketchy coming in.  Hitting the water on 13 out of the rough was kind of a surprise there.  I felt my ball was going to come out pretty good, but it squirted out to the right and went in the water.  I made 6 and gave him that hole basically.  I won the next hole.  He kind of turned around and gave it right back to me.  I made bogey on the next, and he doubled it. 
I 3-putted 15.  That was kind of a crusher there, because I had gotten it back to two, felt like if I could win a hole to get it to one, just to get to 18, just to give me a chance.  That's why I was trying to get it to one.  On match play, if you're down, you don't want to be any more than one, because just any one shot can change the match there.  But that was a couple of big holes.  But that was glaring, I guess, because it was so far toward the end.

Q.  Talk about your week in general, your first World Golf Championship event.  You should be pretty proud with how well you played.
JAY HAAS:  Yeah, it was a great week.  I had a lot of fun.  To beat the three guys I beat was a thrill, to play well under those circumstances.  Adam played well today.  He could have been beaten, but I just didn't have it today as good as I would have liked.



PETER LONARD
Q.  Congratulations.  You were down three, after eight holes.  Were you starting to feel a little bit of pressure?
PETER LONARD:  Well, yeah, but when you have nine to go or ten to go, it doesn't matter what you're doing, it's back against the wall and try to hit a few good shots.  I got one back on nine, which I was lucky to do.  I birdied ten, and then there's always a chance. 

Q.  David Toms will be next.  You have an hour rest.  What about your friend David?
PETER LONARD:  I don't think I've ever played golf with Dave.  It will be something different.  As long as I was playing this afternoon, I didn't really care who I'm playing.  So now I'm looking forward to it.

Q.  Talk about your match today.  You were down early.  You talk about being somewhat of a rookie when it comes to match play.  When you beat a world-class player like Darren Clarke, who's played in Ryder Cups and all that, just talk about your opponent a little bit.
PETER LONARD:  Well, he played great the first ten holes.  It didn't look like he was going to make a mistake.  And I thought I was going to have to struggle to get him.  But from an outsider's point of view, I felt like he looked far more comfortable in this environment than I did.  But I put a bit of pressure on him and I got lucky a couple of times, so that's the way it goes. 

Q.  Down the stretch on 18, you were just kind of putting the dagger in.
PETER LONARD:  Well, once he missed the fairway, he was going to struggle to make 4.  I had 250 to the front edge  -- 254 to the front edge, which I probably should have been able to knock it on (inaudible).

Q.  You had a good lie over there?
PETER LONARD:  It was reasonable.



TIGER WOODS
TIGER WOODS:  I played really well.  I knew I had to because Scott is an awesome ball striker.  I knew he was going to be on every fairway, and every green.  That's how he's been playing all week.  I had to keep the ball in play, and I did that all day today.

Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:  It really is, especially on a day like today, it's nice.  I'm happy to advance, first of all, but also to get it done early, get some rest, and get focused again.  We played down today, which I thought -- I didn't think we should have done, especially with as much dew on the grass this morning.  Every ball we hit in the fairway looked like we picked up mud.  And it was tough from that standpoint.  But this afternoon, when it dries out, there's nothing wrong with playing it down.

Q.  Is that one of the biggest reasons as far as having the ball in hand so you can clean it?
TIGER WOODS:  It's not necessarily to place it, but to clean it, to get the mud off the ball.  On the first hole I hit, I had a perfect 3-wood right down the middle of the fairway, and it had a big old chunk of mud on it.  And it squirted left on me.  So it was a testy day from that aspect.



JERRY KELLY
Q.  Just some general comments about your match today, as well as the week.
JERRY KELLY:  Well, David Toms was rolling his putts more than 20 feet for the first six.  I wasn't making any birdies.  I made four bogeys, so I didn't play that bad, but I didn't play that good, either.  I just didn't make any birdies.

Q.  You had to play the ball down today.
JERRY KELLY:  Yep. 

Q.  How did that do out there?
JERRY KELLY:  Well, mud just stuck to my ball on No. 4, I think it was.  I hit a 4-iron about 172 yards.  It was a little bit of a problem.  

Q.  As far as the week, you won a couple of matches and got here.  So you're probably disappointed now, but you played well overall.
JERRY KELLY:  Yeah, I'm glad I got Jerry Kelly's game back, you know.  I didn't show enough of it today, but it felt really good to compete this week.  It's been three weeks, and it felt like a lot longer than that.  But it was a hard little stretch that I just went through, and I wasn't enjoying it.  I'm happy to be out of it now.

Q.  The Ryder Cup is a long way off, and we've got The Presidents Cup this year.  I'm sure there are things you're shooting for.  But it was a nice match-play experience this year?
JERRY KELLY:  Absolutely.  There was no question in my mind that I thought from the very beginning this week, when I first showed up, I almost wanted to call Mr. Nicklaus and say, "Can you please watch how I do this week?"  I want to be in that Presidents Cup so bad.  And I knew after losing in the first round last year, that if I would do something like losing in the first round this year, he couldn't take me if I happened to fall out.  But I know I can play match play.  I know I can play head-to-head against anybody out there.  And it's just one of those things, this was a lot more than just this week.

Q.  Why is it sometimes (inaudible.)
JERRY KELLY:  Expectations.  High expectations can kill you.  If you come in with no expectations and just play, you just get into a flow.  





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT