THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
October 31, 2002
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  How were the conditions affecting play today?
TIGER WOODS:   I got fooled.  Hit a good shot over there on 6.  Hit it in the water but I hit a good shot.  The wind switched on me and it went downwind.
10, blowing straight downwind, I hit the shot and it blows right into my face and I come up short. 
It's just a frustrating day because the wind, you had the ball in hand but the wind was changing directions a lot.  It was really tough to gauge the gust of wind.  I hit a shot on 18 and hit a low, about head high but the wind smoked it.  But the flag is not even blowing because it's sheltered by the corporate tents, so you cannot really get a gauge on how hard it is actually blowing there.

Q.  What did you hit there?
TIGER WOODS:   I hit a 3-iron. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:   Without a doubt.  Not only is it tough, but you've got to be careful of not sucking the ball back too far.  It's right on these ledges and you miss the hole it could spin right back down the shelf and next thing you know you have a 30, 40-footer.
I think they had to, try to protect the scores. 

Q.  What did you hit on 6? 
TIGER WOODS:   I hit a little 7-iron, yeah. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:   It's been a while.  I can't remember when it's been blowing  -- I really don't know when the last time we played under tricky conditions like this.  But even with ball in hand, it was still tough to try to get a gauge of what shot you are going to play.  Even if you hit a good shot, you are not going to be guaranteed to be in a good spot. 
I tried to hit like 145-yard feet 7-iron in there, and I didn't hit it hard at all.  It got there in a heartbeat, like the wind switched.  Phil hit a shot and he hit it harder than I did, hit the same club and it came out pin-high.  Just timing. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:   It's a little chilly.  It is a little chilly.  But when you're out there playing, you kind of block that all out and play. 
You're just grinding.  You're grinding as hard as you can and you kind of forget that it's cold out. 

Q.  What did you get out of your pairing with Phil today?
TIGER WOODS:   It was a lot of fun.  We both enjoyed it.  We both didn't play that great, but it was a lot of fun.  We thoroughly enjoyed it. 

Q.  Why so, on a day that's this difficult?
TIGER WOODS:   One, we don't get a chance to play with each other very often.  Actually, I honestly could not remember last time I played with him this year.  I might have but I really don't remember. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:   I had good speed on my putts.  I didn't make a whole lot of putts, but I had good speed on it.  I hit a lot of putts where they were so close to going in, but, that's just the way it goes.  If I could have good speed for an entire week, I'll make my share of putts. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:   Oh, yeah, I had no problems with the irons.  It was just the wind being kind of baffling to all of us.  It was tough conditions out there, and you had to be as patient as possible.  But the irons were great. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT