WGC NEC INVITATIONAL
August 25, 2002
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 TIGER WOODS:  I didn't shoot the good number going out I needed to shoot, I think.  I wanted to get 2- or 3- or 4-under par on the front nine and I wasn't able to do it.  I played solid all day.  I hit a lot of good shots today.  And I just didn't make enough birdies I think early in the round to keep pace with Paza.

Q.  Can you keep in perspective the stretch you played in first and second, and what looks like a second again, what a high performance level you've had?
TIGER WOODS:  I played well last week, and at the British Open as well.  If I put that together with these three tournaments I've really played well.  And I just -- I've only won one tournament, but that's not bad either.  Anytime you can win one and put yourself in contention to win others, you're doing all right. 

Q.  How did the course play today compared to yesterday?
TIGER WOODS:  Totally different.  They watered the golf course last night.  The fairways were faster, the greens were harder and firmer.  We had to get accustomed to a golf course like we played in '98.  They completely changed what we faced the first three days. 

Q.  How good is Perry's round under these conditions?
TIGER WOODS:  Paza's round is unbelievable, how he played.  I don't know what he made on 17, but he's gone bogey-free the entire day.  And all things considered, he hasn't won a tournament since New Zealand.  And to put himself in contention like that with the lead and go out and shoot a bogey-free round is pretty impressive.

Q.  Did you have to try to get any more aggressive after you saw him get off to a quick start?
TIGER WOODS:  No, I tried to put myself in position just to make putts.  I felt like I was putting really well.  I needed to hit inside 15 feet on every hole.  If I did that, I knew I was going to make my share of putts.  And I didn't really do a good job of that.  I fanned a couple of shots, put them on the green, but it wasn't close enough. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:  It certainly was frustrating not making a birdie there, because I needed to make a run starting early on the back nine.  I hit a good putt on 10, grazed the top edge.  But to make par with a 4-iron in my hand on 11, but I said, you know what, go ahead and shoot 3- or 4- under par coming in, you never know.  He still has to play some good holes.  And anything can happen on 17.

Q.  Adam Scott won by 10 shots this morning in Europe.  I know that's not exactly in the forefront of your mind today.  He wants to stay over and continue to play this high level of golf to get ready to come over and take on guys like yourself.  Can you kind of comment on his decision to do that, and what he will bring to the states when he comes over?
TIGER WOODS:  I think it's the right decision for him right now.  He's still young in his career.  He's 22 or something like that.  He's not that old.  And he needs a little bit more experience.  And I think being over there I think what will help him with that, the fields aren't quite as deep, and I think it will help him get his confidence up.  And I think by him winning by ten obviously should add a lot of confidence.  He's a great player.  And it's just a matter of him getting enough experience, and knowing what decisions to make on the golf course.  I've played with him and he just needs a little bit more experience before he's ready.

Q.  What's your plan now until the Ryder Cup?
TIGER WOODS:  I'm taking some time off.  I've worked pretty hard these last three weeks.  Actually the last four weeks, getting ready for at least three weeks.  I've played golf just about every day.  And it's time to put the clubs up for a little bit and rest and recoup and then fire back up again. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT