BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2002
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Round of 65 today.  How pleased are you to respond like that after yesterday? 
TIGER WOODS: 
I just said you just go out there and play the way you have been playing.  I have played well all week.  Just yesterday was just a brutal day. It fell right out the window.  My goal today was try to get to even par or under par.  If I could do that, it would be a very successful tournament and it certainly was.

Q.   What sort of experience was yesterday as you saw your hopes of this year's Grand Slam being blown away?
TIGER WOODS: Just difficult day for everybody.  I played in some of the toughest conditions I have ever seen, and the guys probably an hour ahead of me to what my tee time was probably got some of the worst conditions of the entire day.  As you can see towards the end of my round, the last two or three holes the wind started laying down and everyone's was making some  birdies and all the leaders behind me made a lot of birdies coming in.  So it was just a tough day and it just was a quite a test and I certainly wasn't hitting the ball very good on top of that.  That just kind of compounded the problem.

Q.   The British summer hasn't put you off for this great Championship; hasn't it?
TIGER WOODS: Certainly not.  This is an Open Championship.  This is the oldest championship there is in our sport; one that all the players certainly respect and have a great deal of admiration for.  Always fun to come out here and play.

Q.   (Inaudible)
TIGER WOODS: I played well.  I hit the ball just like I did the first two days, and finally was able to make a few putts.

Q.   How did it feel weather-wise compared to yesterday?
TIGER WOODS: Yesterday was just one of those fluke days that you had to throw out. It with a just a brutal day for all of us.  All of us that had to play in the toughest conditions we certainly got off to  bad starts.  I didn't see any scores under par on the front nine going out under those conditions.

Q.   Were you thinking at 15 - birdie, eagle, birdie, that maybe you have a chance?
TIGER WOODS: I just keep plugging along.  Just keep plugging along; keep giving myself chances with some looks.  The looks I did give myself I was able to make for most of the day and just continue doing that.

Q.   What did you hit on 9?
TIGER WOODS: 2-iron.

Q.   Plan now?
TIGER WOODS: I am going home.  I am going home to put some shorts on and T-shirt and walk outside.

Q.   (Inaudible)
TIGER WOODS: Well, obviously I think everyone is going to remember how difficult it was on Saturday to play on it.  I was on telling the guys over here on No. 3 yesterday, hit it 205 and then absolutely ripped a 5-iron head-high and it went 135 yards.  So we don't normally play in those conditions like that.  I was talking about it today with Mags about it today, on 4 yesterday he hit driver and didn't get there.  So I mean, we were hitting 7- and 8-irons in earlier in the week. 

Q.   Is this the major that is gone this year -- (inaudible)
TIGER WOODS: It is gone.  I am finished.  I am done with my round and all four rounds are completed (inaudible).

Q.   You will not wait around and hope that the weather changes and who knows what could happen?
TIGER WOODS: No, I just got to wait for O'Meara to finish and we will get out of here.

Q.   (Inaudible)
TIGER WOODS: Nobody has asked him anything.  He's played beautifully.  I played with him all last week in Ireland and played with him every practice round here.  He's hitting it great. He's really strappin it well and really controlling his pace on his putts.

Q.   Still have a chance to have a great season, three of four majors second time in three years --(inaudible)
TIGER WOODS: Two was a great year.  I think sometimes the media and everybody tend to lost perspective on how difficult it is to win a major championship.  Any time you can win one major in a year it is going to be a successful year.

Q.   (Inaudible)
TIGER WOODS: I would certainly would like to be in contention after shooting a 65 with at least a chance to win it.  That would have been even better.  But that is the way it goes.

Q.   (Inaudible) talk about the reception you got coming up 18 despite   ---
TIGER WOODS: It not only 18 but all the way around the fans were extremely respectful.  They have been gracious to not only myself but all the players this week.  As I have always said, these are the most knowledgeable fans in the world and they certainly have proven that again this week.

Q.    (Inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS: I have already accomplished it.  Only difference is it would be a different way of doing it. 

Q.   When was the last time you shot 81?
TIGER WOODS: I think the last time I played well, I think it was last year (inaudible) I think I shot 83. Honestly (Laughs) I mean, I was low round of in the group with 83. It was brutal, it was blowing about 40, 50 miles an hour, just a brutal day.  I hit a 2-iron from 150 yards and didn't get there.  It was blowing that hard.

Q.   How come you stayed out there?
TIGER WOODS: It a long way home.  Might as well play. (Laughter).

Q.   What did you think when you woke up this morning and seeing the conditions?
TIGER WOODS: For me I wish it would have been a little more difficult because if I would have shot the same round under more difficult conditions it -- maybe I could have had a chance, but realistically I am too far back.  Too many guys between myself and the lead and the way those guys are playing, I am sure those guys will go out there and play well.

Q.   How important was it for you to go and shoot a round like that today?
TIGER WOODS: My goal was to get to even par, even under par, I think that would have been a very successful tournament, and I am very pleased that I have done that. 

Q.   (Inaudible)
TIGER WOODS: I think for me it was important to go out there and play like I did the first two days, just hit the ball well, think well, and putt well.  Only different today is today the putts went in versus the first two days where they weren't falling.

Q.   You round was weather related and sort if impossible to --(inaudible)
TIGER WOODS:  No, I tried my heart out yesterday.  I tried all the way around there and I shot 81.  I grinded my way around there and I shot 81, that was the best score I could have shot.

Q.   When did you realize that it was over yesterday that after eight holes --(inaudible) --
TIGER WOODS: You can never think that way.  I didn't think it was over until those guys were finished on 18 yesterday.  You have to think that way.  Even today if I would have gone out there, let's say I would have birdied the last four holes, I would have been right there as well. 

Q.   (Inaudible)
TIGER WOODS:  I didn't get off actually to a gracious start.  I was 1-over there.  Made birdie at the fifth and I think the eagle at 9 got me going a bit and the save on 10.  I never really thought of getting back into this championship without a chance to win until maybe the last few holes probably could have gone maybe 2, 3, 3, I might have had a chance.

Q.   (Inaudible)
TIGER WOODS: Depends on the weather.  If I would have shot this under yesterday's condition, I would have liked my chances.  (Laughter).

Q.   Are you playing anywhere before the PGA?
TIGER WOODS: I really don't know yet.  I might play Buick, but as of right now, I really don't know.

Q.   How do you look at the PGA now?
TIGER WOODS: Same.  It is a major championship.  Try and get ready the best I possibly can. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT