VERIZON BYRON NELSON CLASSIC
May 11, 2002
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







TIGER WOODS: No doubt about that.  It was long and it was tough.   (Inaudible) right now a buck 63 and hit a little 5-iron in there.  I normally don't hit 5-iron from 163 but that's what the condition calls for and that's what you had to do. 

Q.  Tiger, can you talk about the pairing because you and David  --
TIGER WOODS: It's always fun playing with David.   I've always enjoyed playing with him.  He's one of my buddies and it was nice to be able to go out there and kind of basically hang out for a few hours together.  Unfortunately, golf got in the way of that.

Q.  (Inaudible)
TIGER WOODS: A lot, yeah.  I need the wind like this to blow again tomorrow but he's going to have to come back to us a little bit.

Q.  Is it something like right now when you get back, are you going to want to see what you've done?  (Inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS: I don't know if I can  -- i could be within 7 of the lead, I'd be all right.

Q.  (Inaudible) 
TIGER WOODS: I've done it before and you can always say that.  And I just need to go out there and do it again tomorrow, but I need the conditions to be like this.  If it's calm, then you know the leaders are going to go low.

Q.  (Inaudible)
TIGER WOODS: 17, I had 197, I think it was to the hole and I hit a low 5-iron there, so I hit a 5-iron from 163 and 197 the last two holes.

Q.  Are you setting it up for another Sunday big Tiger finish?
TIGER WOODS: It's not what I had in mind.

Q.  Tiger, you've played a fair bit of golf.  Why do you think the Asian players are suddenly having a fair amount of success after it took them a pretty long time to get to the winner's circle?
TIGER WOODS: I think they've never played over here.  A lot of the guys haven't played over here full time.  You can't just come over here and play one tournament and go back home.  The guys who have been committed to playing on our tour have done very well, and I think it also goes to show you what kind of talent pool they have over there in Asia.  There's a lot of good solid players, and when they come over here commit themselves to our tour full time, you're going to see them doing very well.

Q.  Based on your experience how rabid are the golf fans in Asia?
TIGER WOODS: They love their golf, I'll tell you that.  The times I've been over there, they've absolutely been open arms to golf.  It is a booming market and one I think all golf companies are trying to get their hands on.

Q.  Yesterday Shigeki was kidding around and he said his English wasn't very good but he knows how to sing.  Have you heard him sing?
TIGER WOODS: I've never, no.

Q.  Frustrating day today, Tiger, or not?
TIGER WOODS:  The start certainly was because I had some good shots and I had some good looks at some putts and I hit some good ones that lipped out again.  If those would have gone in, I probably realistically could have done a maybe two or three better.

Q.  Do you hope down the road that one day you will be able to take a breath as a Byron Nelson-what-you-did-for-golf?
TIGER WOODS: If I could  -- yeah, that would be absolutely fantastic to be able to say that or have someone say that, to have that kind of impact on the game.  But my career is just beginning.  It's just the beginning of it.  He had -- not a long career, but he had a very impactful career.  But I think he's done more for the game of golf once he's retired and left it than he did when he was playing.

Q.  Do you ever look at any of Byron's swing theories  --
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I have.

Q.  (Inaudible) just talk about 55 years or so, some of his theories still play today?
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, they do.  But I think the modern game has changed.  The leg drive is not as apparent in the teachings of the modern teachers now.  It's more hitting the club in front of you, rotating it through, letting the bigger muscles do the work for you, the upper body.  The legs are just there for stability.  That's about it.

Q.  (Inaudible)
TIGER WOODS: Different than modern teaching these days a lot of it has changed.  But when you play to win like this, that's exactly what you do think about. 
I had some old clubs at home.  I like practicing with old clubs.  I find that I hit the ball just as well with (inaudible) nice to go back and  --

Q.  Tiger, do you think the Master's committee might heed your suggestion that seniors get the five-year exemption if they make the cut or were you throwing that out there?
TIGER WOODS: They probably won't (inaudible) now.  They had their committee of -- I think it was Raymond and Tom and Hootie, I think.  They are the ones that came up with the policy and they obviously changed it just a touch, but it would be nice if (inaudible) Master's and know you were coming back for a lifetime.  Some of the guys have taken advantage of that rule.

Q.  (Inaudible) Would it surprise you to be within four or five of the lead?
TIGER WOODS: The way it's playing coming in, you're going to have to get good shots.  And obviously Maruyama was playing really well.  And it would be nice if I was that close.

Q.  Tiger, when you and David play together, a lot of people anticipate fireworks.  Do you sense that when you're out there playing with him (inaudible) huge for you, but any difference when you're playing with David?
TIGER WOODS: I don't think it's any different.  I think just a lot more fun for me.  It's always nice when you get paired up with a buddy and go around talking about other things that are going on rather than just going out there and playing a round of golf.  That, to me, is a lot of fun.

Q.  (Inaudible) need this kind of weather (inaudible) but you look like you enjoy the challenge of trying to hit some different golf shots?
TIGER WOODS: It's nice to be able to work the golf ball and know that you have to do it.  You can't just step up there and hit a normal standard shot off there.  You're going to have to control your trajectory, control your spin, and that to me is fun.  That's why I love playing the British Open because we get a chance to do that.

Q.  What number do you think (inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS: You know, it all depends on the wind.  If the wind blows like this, I won't have to go as low as I think I have to.  I think if  -- a lot of it is on the wind.  If I can get this wind tomorrow, that would be nice.

Q.  You don't even go in thinking like you need a 64?
TIGER WOODS: No.  You've got to wake up and see what the conditions are and make your determination based upon that, but if any  -- in any case you're going to have to get off to a good start.  That's the most important part.

Q.  Thanks a lot.  



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT