THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 21, 2002
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  Looked like you had trouble making putts today.  
TIGER WOODS:   Actually, I really didn't.  I was in a lot of good positions, so i just hung in there and I'm very pleased to be under par. 

Q.  Were you hitting fairways, missing fairways? 
TIGER WOODS:   I wasn't really missing a whole lot of fairways.  I missed a couple of greens here and there.  The wind was tricky to read and consequently, I got fooled a couple of times.

Q.  You 3-putted 11.  How far was the first one? 
TIGER WOODS:   40 feet and I missed about a 6-footer there. 

Q.  Is it tough not to get frustrated at some point?  I know you have to hang in, there and you do that so well, but at some point do you get frustrated? 
TIGER WOODS:   It wasn't that frustrating  -- but today is a day you just want to keep hanging in there.  The conditions were not exactly easy and they became easier towards the end. 

Q.  Talk about the conditions today, when you started and the delay and what the rain had done to the golf course?
TIGER WOODS:   Totally changed the speed of the greens you had to recalibrate and get adjusted to the new feel.  It took me a little while to get adjusted to the feel but once I got in there, I didn't really give myself a whole lot of tough putts.  My speed was pretty good and I hit the ball a little bit closer to the hole.

Q.  Tee shot on 3 came back.  Talk about that up-and-down a little bit.
TIGER WOODS:   It was an awkward lie.  I had to choke down on the shaft all the way to the steel and came out a little quicker than I thought.  I didn't think it would come out that quick.  Hit it past the hole about six feet and made it for par.

Q.  What did you have on 4 going in? 
TIGER WOODS:   I had to take one more club there.  It's a perfect sand wedge for me, but if I land sand wedge past the hole it's in the water.  So I tried to like a little 90-yard pitching wedge;  it was a little tough for me to do, that much, and then you think about if you hit it too easy, I'm in the water.  So I'm probably just going to try to play to the crest and hopefully it would hit and I just check right there and maybe it will roll back, but if it didn't I have an easy downhill putt. 

Q.  The tee shot at 5, that ball was in there? 
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, the rough was pretty high and I didn't draw a very good lie.  So I just hacked it out there and tried to get a bounce in the fairway and I wasn't able to do it. 

Q.  All in all, good day?  Average day? 
TIGER WOODS:   Good day.  No doubt about it.  Under par under these conditions, you've got to be pleased about it  because it's a long way to go.  It's a long tournament, conditions are only going to get tougher.  If you just keep plugging along, keep shooting good, solid scores, you'll be all right.

Q.  Do you ever look at the leaderboard?TIGER WOODS:   Oh, yeah, I look at it all the time. 

Q.  Do you see some scores, early in the day, the wind looks like it bothered a lot of guys and more than was it for the morning session. 
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I'm sure the leader will probably be 6 or 7 by the end of the first round, but there's a long way to go.  It's a long tournament.  It's a tough week.  The conditions are only going to get tougher, as I said, which means I just need to keep plugging along.

Q.  And tomorrow is supposed to be colder, wind is coming in from the north; that will change conditions. 
TIGER WOODS:   Without a doubt.  As I say it's going to get tougher.  Just got to keep hanging in there and keep making your pars. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT