BAY HILL INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY COOPER TIRES
March 14, 2002
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Tiger, thank you for joining us. 
Good round today, 5-under par 67, good start.  If we could get a
couple of comments on your round, and then we'll go into some
questions.

     TIGER WOODS:   I played well today.  Hit a lot of good shots.
 I drove the ball pretty good, and I didn't really get off to the
greatest of starts, but my short game bailed me out and I made a lot
of putts today.  It was nice to hit some good, solid putts that seemed
to go in.  Like I said, I hit the ball really well.

     When I did make a mistake, my short game bailed me out. 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Questions? 
Q.   21 putts; is that right? 

     TIGER WOODS:   It's kind of misleading, isn't it?  Because I
hit a lot of fringe and I putted from the fringe.  So I guess
technically it's 21. 
 Q.   What did it feel like? 

     TIGER WOODS:   Probably 25, 26. 
Q.   The birdie putt you made, did that alarm go off the whole
time?  Back on the fourth hole, the car alarm was going off?

     TIGER WOODS:   As long as it stayed on, it was no big deal. 
If all of a sudden he goes beep, beep (indicating turning off car
alarm) in the middle of my stroke it's a different story.
 Q.   Didn't bother you at all?

     TIGER WOODS:  No.  I grew up on a military base. 
 Q.   Did you yank one right off the tee down the left side on
the first hole?

     TIGER WOODS:   I pulled it left and hit the same shot out,
short left and chipped up there about four feet and made it for
par.
 Q.   Have you reached a stage with your swing where you're no
longer curious where it's going?  Do you have a pretty good idea?


     TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I have a pretty good idea.  If I'm  --
the work I've done, I'm very happy with it, because now I have a
feeling I know where it's going to go if I miss it, which is nice to
know. 
Q.   How confident do you feel going back to a course where
you've won two years in a row?  Is that almost like starting with an
edge to begin with? 

     TIGER WOODS:   It feels good because you know that  -- you
know that you can play this golf course.  I've played well here in the
past, and I think you usually get good vibes when you are actually
able to come back to the golf course that you've won on, especially if
you're playing well.  I feel like I'm starting to putt a little bit
better now.
Q.   Were there a couple of holes out there where your approach
shot would hit in front of the pin and role 25 feet past, like 14; is
that indicative of the firmness of greens?

     TIGER WOODS:   It's one of those things, my shot on 14, I hit
a beautiful 5-iron in there  -- actually a little 4-iron in there, it
lands and goes over the greens.  David hits right behind me, same
identical shot short and it sticks. 

     When they redid the greens, they only did the greens; so they
don't do the fringe.  If you land on the fringe, it's going to stop. 
If you land on the green, it's going to go.  It's really tough to get
to some of these pins.  From the dots that we saw out there today for
tomorrow's dots, it's going to be a challenge again.
 Q.   Do you have to be a little more patient and not be just
from the middle of the fairway, flag hunting?

     TIGER WOODS:   I don't normally do that.  I usually play away
from a lot of the flags anyways.
 Q.   Obviously, you've played here before, you've won here
before.  What do you need to do these next three days? 

     TIGER WOODS:   I think it's very simple.  Just got to keep
driving the ball well to give yourself a chance at keeping the ball in
a realistic chance to make putts.  If you drive the ball in the rough
here with these greens this hard, it's almost impossible to keep the
ball on the green.  If you don't keep it on the green, the rough is
high enough, the greens are fast enough where it's really hard to get
up-and-down.
Q.   Do you think you'll eventually like this setup better than
the old way or does it make a difference?

     TIGER WOODS:   I've always liked greens when they are more
firm.  I think it's more of a challenge, and it favors guys who like 
-- who obviously, hit the ball high.  And on top of that, I like
seeing the ball move on the greens a little bit, instead of just
backing up.  It's frustrating when you hit 4-irons and 5-irons and see
them back  up ten feet.  That's not normal.
Q.   On which of the three courses are you, do you think you're
most comfortable, Bay Hill, Muirfield or Firestone? 

     TIGER WOODS:   I love the look of Firestone, old, traditional
straightforward golf course.  There's no  -- there's no blind shots,
nothing blind out there.  It's just right there in front of you and
the bunkers are there and the golf course is long and difficult, and
it's like one of those golf courses that says, "Come and get me."   
The greens aren't difficult, but it plays tough every year.


     TIGER WOODS:   I like the look off the tees a lot more there.

Q.   Have you ever been paired with John Daly? 

     TIGER WOODS:   '96 Skins Game.  They had the football stripes
out there for how far we hit it off the tee, do you remember that? 
 Q.   Yeah, I was trying to forget it. 

     TIGER WOODS:  Was it '96 or  '97?  I think it was '96.  I
don't think I've played a competitive round on TOUR.
Q.   It's a little loud; I don't know how much you notice it,
when you're playing, there's a pretty good-sized gallery and then it
disperses and today it almost seemed like it was two holes of a
wall. 

     TIGER WOODS:   He's playing really well and people love to
see John play well.  He hits driver just off just about every hole and
fans love it, and he's driving it in play.  You and I were talking
about that out there today; that every hole is out there in the
fairway and pretty deep out there, too.
Q.   Earlier in the week, we had the Director of Homeland
Security here.  Does the atmosphere on the course feel any different? 
Does it feel the same as in previous years?

     TIGER WOODS:   You know, it has certainly changed since
September 11.  I don't think we can say that it hasn't.  I think there
is added security, just for the safety of not only the players, but
the fans and everyone who comes out is part of the tournament. 
Everyone wants to have a good time.  I think in order to ensure that,
yeah, we have more protection out there and more security.  It is a
safer environment.  There's no doubt about that. 
 Q.   How many drivers did you hit today?  I think it was two on
the back; how many on the front? 

     TIGER WOODS:   Three.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Let's go through your birdies.

     TIGER WOODS:   2, I hit a 5-iron in there to about 12 feet
and made that.

     4, I hit a driver and a 3-iron just over the green, chipped
up there and 2-putt, seven feet and made that.

     Next hole, I hit a 3-iron off the tee, sand wedge to about 18
feet and made that.

     On 6, I hit a driver off the tee, a 3-iron over the green,
chipped back down there to about three feet and made that. 

     16, I hit a driver off the tee.  I hit a 7-iron in there to
about, oh, 18 feet just left of the hole on the fringe and left it
just a little short and left. 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Thank you, Tiger, for joining us.




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT