WGC EMC WORLD CUP
November 17, 2001
David Duval
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Welcome the United States team, David Duval and Tiger Woods currently at 19 under par.  Why don't you start us off with some comments about today. 

DAVID DUVAL:  Well, I think overall the day was okay.  I think my play was pretty sad.  I think it got cold at the end and it was very slow.  How was that?  (Smiles).

TIGER WOODS:  I think we shot all right today.  It  wasn't a great round, but at least we moved up the board.  And you know, I wish I could have made that putt on the last hole.  At least we would have  -- I don't know, I just don't like ending that way.  Overall, I think it was just a long, slow day, and we at least scored good enough where we'll have a chance tomorrow going into the tougher format. 

Q.  Do you think where you are now that you will be able to get ahead of New Zealand with tomorrow's format? 

TIGER WOODS:   I don't know, I think we are in second place now, aren't we?  If that's the case, then we are in the final group.  At least we can play with them and hopefully play well enough tomorrow, to give ourselves a chance. 

Q.  Both of you played very good golf today.  Could you tell us which club you used for the second shot on No. 6? 

TIGER WOODS:   I hit 3-iron and I think David hit 3-wood.  David hit 3-wood and I hit 3-iron. 

Q.  Forgive me for bringing up Thursday again.  Is it true that at last year's World Cup you were not allowed a practice putt? 

TIGER WOODS:   We were not.  It was  -- we didn't do it. 

Q.  Aaron Baddeley told me he thought you were, but he wasn't there, so maybe he didn't know.

TIGER WOODS:   I don't know.  I really don't. 

Q.  Also, the Tour said they gave each player a sheet etch playing that they were not allowed to putt.  What happened to them, did you just overlook that? 

TIGER WOODS:   It says on there that there is a  -- it just says practice putting, and then it refers you to the rules.  So they assume, I guess you have to have a rule book in your golf bag. 

DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah I hit a driver and 9-iron.  3, Tiger hit a driver off the tee. 

TIGER WOODS:   I hit a 2-iron in the left bunker and got up-and-down from  -- about a 2-footer.  Next, drive, I hit 2-iron and 9-iron to about six feet and made that. 

DAVID DUVAL:  6, driver off the tee and 3-wood to 20 feet and 2-putted.  7, I hit 6-iron to six feet.  11, I hit a driver and 3-wood into the green-side bunker and hit out to 12 feet. 

TIGER WOODS:   13, I hit 5-iron to about eight feet.  14, I hit a driver and a 9-iron to about a foot.  15, I hit a 2-iron in the right bunker.  I hit a sand wedge over the green and chipped it long and lipped out a putt from about 18 feet.  16, I hit a driver and a 9-iron to about eight feet.  17, I hit a 4-iron to about eight feet. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT