THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DYNEGY
November 4, 2001
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Tiger, is your back any better?
 
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, it feels better.  It felt the best today. 
 
Q.  Did it concern you any?
 
TIGER WOODS:  No, it feels pretty good right now. 
 
Q.  When you look back on the year, winning another Vardon Trophy, another money title, how do you feel about that?
 
TIGER WOODS:  All those are good things, and I'm proud of the way I played this entire year.  It's hard for me to be in a good mood about this right now, after the way I finished.  I played pretty solid all year and I was very fortunate enough to play good in some big events.  And that's part of the success that I've had and I'm proud of that.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
TIGER WOODS:  Everything was going great, I felt I was really playing well going into this week.  I was really looking forward to it.  I wasn't able to swing the club like I normally would the first couple days, but the last couple days I felt pretty good.  It wasn't a hundred percent, but it was close enough to where I could make some moves that I know I can make.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
TIGER WOODS:  I think I just did that.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
TIGER WOODS:  I think I'll remember the fact that I had a chance to do something that no one's ever done before  in our sport.  And I was somehow able to pull it off.  And it was something that I will always remember this year.  It's been a very successful year, in spite of everything.  It wasn't quite as good as last year but I'm still pretty proud of this year.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
TIGER WOODS:  No, I won 12 times around the world.  It's kind of hard to duplicate that.  This year I have  -- so far I've won six around the world, and that's not bad.  And hopefully I can continue to play well.  I know I got some events coming up that I'm looking forward to playing in, especially with David in a couple of weeks, and hopefully we can defend our title over there.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
TIGER WOODS:  I haven't looked that far ahead yet, sorry.  
 
Q.  What are your plans?
 
TIGER WOODS:  I'm going to go home and just chill out and just kind of hang out and just kind of get away from it for a little bit and kind of shut it down.  And I got to go to China first and Japan and play over there, so I want to be rested by the time I get to Japan.  So I don't have any lingering soreness or any problems with flexibility. 
 
Q.  What kind of things do you do in the off-season to help you?
 
TIGER WOODS:  The funny thing, I only had two weeks off, actually, from after my coming back from the Williams, two weeks off and then start the year all over again.  We fly out December 31st off to Hawaii.  It's one of those things where our season has become so long that you got to take breaks and that.  And the tragedy that happened on September 11th actually was a good thing for me schedule-wise, because I was able to take five weeks off instead of just three.  And from that standpoint I was able to get away from the game for a little bit and recharge myself.  That was my off-season.  I took it a little bit earlier than I normally would.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
TIGER WOODS:  It took me awhile to get here.  
 
Q.  You've always talked about peaking for four weeks, for the Majors.  After winning the Master's, are you, in a sense, disappointed or just been trying to regain your game?
 
TIGER WOODS:  Well, you try to peak for the four Majors, and sometimes just something happens.  You try your best, and I just wasn't able to put it all together at the right time.  And that's just the way it goes sometimes.  I was playing well going into the PGA and didn't play well at the PGA and then the very next week I played great at Firestone.  So if it would have happened a week sooner, I would have been all right.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
TIGER WOODS:  I'm looking forward to getting over there and playing a great course.  I've been told there is some of the best greens in the world, they're always running fast, about 12 on the Stimpmeter, and that's pretty quick.  I'm looking forward to going over there and playing with David.  David last year carried me the whole way and, hopefully, I can play a little better this year.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT