THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DYNEGY
November 2, 2001
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TIGER WOODS:  Just got a little sore towards the end. 
 
Q.  Would you describe your round in general today.
 
TIGER WOODS: I felt like I hit the ball well today.  An ending like that, just not feeling very good, because I played well all day.  Just to make a silly mistake at the end like that, just not the way you want to cap off your round. 
 
Q.  What did you do last night or this morning to help the back?
 
TIGER WOODS:  We just mobilized the joints, and make sure they were moving properly and full range of motion and just like when you have trauma to it, you are going to have a little inflammation.  Basically, it's like a bruise, it is going to be a little bit sore for a while.  As long as the joints move properly, that's all you can do. 
 
Q.  Is it bothering you at all?
 
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, it did.  But it's not painful.  It's just a little sore.  Yesterday was a little tough.  Today was just a little sore. 
 
Q.  You made any accommodation, Tiger, (inaudible) swing change?
 
TIGER WOODS:  Couple of little things here and there.  Just to try and free up the motion of the swing and make sure I can just hit about every shot that I can.  The hard part is trying to cut the ball, trying to stay underneath the shot and hold off, that's kind of tough.  But luckily,  I didn't have to play too many of those. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)
 
TIGER WOODS:  I like to shape them from right-to-left.  That's my predominant ball flight.  When I had to cut one, I was able to, but I wasn't  -- I didn't really want to put it that way.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible)
 
TIGER WOODS:  I was unhappy about the feel a little bit, you know, when I cut them. 
 
Q.  Talk about the weekend.
 
TIGER WOODS:  If I can play like I did today, I thought I played well today.  I just made that one mistake at the last hole, and other than that, I really hit the ball solidly and made a few putts today, which was nice.  
 
Q.  Do you think it will be getting progressively better?
 
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, it's supposed to.  All I can do is make sure the range of motion is still there and if that's there, then over time it will just heal it self. 
 
Q.  Did you go to the trailer or somebody else  -- (inaudible) --
 
TIGER WOODS:  Somebody else.  
 
Q.  Injuries obviously happen throughout the season, not the first time for you, be the last I am sure, because this is the season-ending TOUR Championship, does it relax your mind a little bit to know that you will have time to recuperate in the off-season or will you have time  ---
 
TIGER WOODS:  I had my break already.  No, I start back up.  I travel quite a bit from here on out.  I took 5 weeks off there to just get away  from the game and get my mind and body right and I was able to do that.  I came back today and actually this week and felt pretty good.  Just unfortunately you have one little mishap and I have been a little sore since. 
 
Q.  Golf is a never-ending season.  Is that frustrating when it comes to injuries?
 
TIGER WOODS:  That's a hard thing about our sport is that you -- our official season is ten months and then after that, we have some other tournaments that we play in those other two tournaments.  Our season is so long now that you have to take breaks throughout the season and you wish it wasn't quite that way like most sports have six months off.  That's not the way our sport is. 
 
Q.  You are going to take it easy on the range?
 
TIGER WOODS:  I hit -- I am probably hitting more before I play than normal just to make sure it's loose and take it slow and I hit a lot of wedges, a lot of 8-irons warming up, then progress up through the bag.  It's not that I can just go out there and hit a couple of balls and go to the 1st tee.  I guess that's what happens when you get a little older.  
 
Q.  Speaking of a little older, Calc, your buddy had a good round.  He struggles through injuries all the time.  Do you joke about it with him?
 
TIGER WOODS:  I don't know, for some reason this season a lot of the players have been hurting this year for some reason.  I have had my share of little nicks and things and other players have had the same.  For some reason it has been one of those years where a lot of guys have been nicked up. 
 
Q.  Does Calc joke about it much with you?
 
TIGER WOODS:  We joke a lot about other things, but not that.  (Laughs). 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT