THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DYNEGY
November 1, 2001
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  (Inaudible) back injury?
 
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, it's pretty sore.  It just acted up yesterday and just one of those things that you have to go out there an deal with it.  Thankfully, it is a very warm week and I was able to keep it warm and keep it loose most of the day. 
 
Q.  How much does it hurt?
 
TIGER WOODS:  I won't say it doesn't hurt.  I definitely feel it, and the hardest time is when you are standing around.  It's fine walking, no big deal walking.  The problem is when I have to rotate and go ahead and/or bend over, and those are things that are an integral part of our game. 
 
Q.  What were you doing when it flared up?
 
TIGER WOODS:  I was actually in the trailer office over there and it just happened. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)
 
TIGER WOODS:  No, I was getting worked on.  
 
Q.  Is this a recurring problem?
 
TIGER WOODS:  No, I have never had this problem. This is the first.  I have never had any problems in my lower lumbar spine.  If anything, I tend to get it in  -- my thoracic tends to get a little out of whack, but that's about it. 
 
Q.  Three days more to play.  You are on a course that you like, a course that you can handle whether you are well or not.  What are your thoughts about your position right now?
 
TIGER WOODS:  Well, the way I was feeling today if someone would have told me would you take it under par and go home, I would say yes.  I was very thankful and very lucky to end up under par, and I have got a good shot winning this tournament if I can just somehow keep hitting the ball solidly and making a few putts here and there, I can get myself back in this ballgame. 
 
Q.  Were you feeling your back during your swing or just when you were bending over when picking up your ball?
 
TIGER WOODS:  Everything you said.  
 
Q.  Does it concern you?
 
TIGER WOODS: I don't see how it cannot concern me.  
 
Q.  Is it muscular?
 
TIGER WOODS:  I really don't know.  I don't know.  I am not the expert on that.  But I do know it is sore.  It does hurt right now.  I will get it fixed tonight.  Hopefully tomorrow I will be 100%. 
 
Q.  Old age?
 
TIGER WOODS:  I guess so (laughs). 
 
Q.  (Inaudible) Is it tough to get the club all the way back?
 
TIGER WOODS:  It is tough, yes.  I have got a couple of adjustments in my setup to help me out, so was able to make a turn.  I knew that I couldn't cut the ball very well because I would have to hold onto it.  The way it is going right now, I can't really play any cut.  I just kind of let the ball go. 
 
Q.  Looked like you had a Monica Seles grunt when you were done swinging the driver.
 
TIGER WOODS:  The problem is that the more I play   -- it started out sore, then it got okay, and then towards the end I guess the muscles are getting tired and it starts acting up a little bit more.  It is just one of those things if I am  -- I went ahead and tried to play the proper shot and keep the ball down, it is going to hurt. 
 
Q.  Given some of the minor injuries that you have had at the U.S. Open this year, Pebble Beach earlier in year, is this the worst you have ever felt?
 
TIGER WOODS:  The worst I have hurt?  No.  I think that rock a couple of years ago here was probably the most. 
 
Q.  Is this the most you have hurt over 18 holes?
 
TIGER WOODS:  Played, yes.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible) It looked like you had a painful swing at 2.  Was that the most painful swing you have ever had?
 
TIGER WOODS:  No, I think probably the one on the 17th tee because I tried to punch a 3-wood there. 
 
Q.  Why would you do that?
 
TIGER WOODS: (Laughs) Shot called for it.  
 
Q.  How do you have to feel tomorrow morning to know that you will be able to play?
 
TIGER WOODS:  I don't know.  I have got to play it by ear and, hopefully, I will feel a lot better. 
 
Q.  Can you play four rounds like this?
 
TIGER WOODS: Who knows.  I really don't know.  Hopefully  -- I just hope I feel better, put it that way.  Tonight I will get worked on and I will feel better tomorrow, I hope. 
 
Q.  On a slightly lighter note, you are a few shots in back of a guy who played his first TOUR Championship 14 years ago.  What were you doing 14 years ago?
 
TIGER WOODS:  14 years ago I think I was just  about ready to turn double digits (laughs).  I guess I was 11, I was having probably the best year of my life actually. 
 
Q.  Doing what?
 
TIGER WOODS:  That's when you had three recesses; I could play nation ball, kick ball, I had good grades and everything was going my way when I was 11.  
 
Q.  Aside from the back what was the biggest challenge out there today?
 
TIGER WOODS:  I think that was it.  If I can somehow deal with that I will be okay. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)
 
TIGER WOODS:  I never even thought about it that way.  I thought if you WD'd during a round, you'd lose the Vardon Trophy.  But I think if you complete the round, then you are all right. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)
 
TIGER WOODS:  If you are hurt you are hurt, if you can't go, you can't go. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT