ADVIL WESTERN OPEN
July 7, 2001
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What a remarkable round   - with two double-bogeys - you could be in the lead, but to finish 5-under over the last five holes --  tell us about your mental approach.
 
TIGER WOODS: Today was one of those rounds where I can't explain it.  I had two doubles and a bogey, two eagles and birdies.  I had 8 pars today which is good, made some pars at least.  But it was just an interesting day.  I figured something out last night with my golf swing on the range.  I have really hit it good on the range and then on the golf course and started hitting my golf shots the way I used to and started getting the ball the normal distances again which kind of through me off, the balls long and (inaudible) made two double bogey because of that.  Once I barreled in and trusted my own yardages, I was hitting my clubs and I was all right.  
 
Q.  What did you figure out?
 
TIGER WOODS: Left arm plane, left wrist at the top, rotation of the left arm coming down touched my head angle after impact (inaudible)-- 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)
 
TIGER WOODS: I felt pretty good actually the whole day even though I made a lot of mistakes but I still stood over the shots, I felt like I was going to hit a good shot, even if it didn't turn to out a good shoot least, I felt -- I had a good vibe over the ball.  I haven't had that in a little bit.  It is a nice feeling to have that and towards the end I hit some good shots on top of having the good feeling. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)
 ?
TIGER WOODS: It all depends on what Davis does.  If Davis  -- he is at 12.  If he goes ahead and sticks it to us and gets 4 -, 5-under par coming in, it will be awfully tough to catch him tomorrow. 
 
Q.  These last five holes, when was the last time you had a stretch like that?
 
TIGER WOODS: It's been a while.  It's been a while.  I don't know when the last time was. But I am out of guesses right now.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible)
 
TIGER WOODS: I have lost it for the last couple of months.   I haven't really been hitting because my normal (inaudible) I am talking three, five yards.  It is not that much, but when you are dealing with pins over bunkers, tucked in corners, then you have to be precise.  I wasn't able to be as precise as I normally was. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)
 
TIGER WOODS: 17 hit a 9-iron, 18 I hit 8-iron.  One was downwind; one was back into the wind.  
 
Q.   Do you remember the last time you had  a couple of doubles?
 
TIGER WOODS: That has been a while too.  I don't remember doing that too often.  It was just a weird thing that happened but the weird thing is that I had hit good shots.  I hit 3-iron  on No. 6 there, (inaudible) I carry it 272, I don't normally hit a 3-iron 272 yards.  But I get back and make a few adjustments (inaudible). I could post a low one.  I don't know.  I need to hit the ball coming in today and make those putts like I did today. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)
 
TIGER WOODS: I was pretty far back there for a little bit.  Even today with five holes to go I wasn't really in it.  2-under par wasn't looking too good but I got to 7, Stevie says if we can get to seven or eight we'd be right back in the tournament with a chance to win.  I was able to somehow post 7, so hopefully I will have a chance going out tomorrow, and I won't have too many shots to make up. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)
 
TIGER WOODS: I said something very smart to him.  He didn't like it and he threw a divot at me and I threw it back at him.  We were needling each other the all day.  We were on each other the whole day.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT