ADVIL WESTERN OPEN
July 6, 2001
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIGER WOODS: When you're not playing good, usually you don't score well. I didn't play particularly well yesterday. I just didn't really hit the ball the way I wanted to and I definitely didn't make any putts. Consequently, it added up to one over par. Today, I played a lot better. I hit the ball more crisp today, which was nice. I burned so many edges, but at least I made a few here and there.

Q. How do you recover from a day like yesterday?

TIGER WOODS:Ã‚ ¶ It's part of the game. That's just the way it is. You're going to have times like that. You just need to go home and relax and unwind and know you need to come out and play well the following day. Put it behind you because, in the end, when it's over, the day's over, the round's over, you can't do anything about it. All you can do is go out there with a positive frame of mind and do the best you can the following day.

Q. What about breaking the club yesterday?

TIGER WOODS: I hit a bad shot, got frustrated with myself. I made a mistake and it happens. Unfortunately, I did it. I regret doing it. But it's just, sometimes you get a little hot at yourself when you know you're not performing the way you know you can. 

Q. Were you thinking about the cut?

TIGER WOODS: I'm trying to get back in the tournament, at least give myself a chance going into the weekend. To be honest with you, when you're out there playing, I don't really think about the cut. I think about trying to get myself where I have a good shot on the weekend. I don't know if I should be looking at the cut or not, but I go out there and I just play.  For me, I wanted to shoot something mid-60s today. That's what I needed to shoot to get myself back up there on that board. At least now I'm somewhat within striking distance going into the weekend. 

Q. You were in a similar spot last year? This feel any different?

TIGER WOODS: Last year I wasn't hitting the ball as consistent. I was hitting it
off and on. I'd have hot streaks, then I'd lose it. This year, I played terrible yesterday, but today I hit the ball pretty good. If I can just get a few more putts to fall and get some positive momentum going, I might have a good weekend. 

Q. A few people have talked about the greens being tough, would you agree?

TIGER WOODS: The thing is, the greens are I guess the best way to describe them, they're springy. You hit a shot in there, it takes a big hop before it starts checking. With the pins in the corners like they are, it's really hard to get it tight. I hit a couple good shots that landed just short of the flag and they skipped by 15, 20 feet. I hit a good shot. Sometimes you're just going to have to accept that and move on, know that you're not going to get that out of every flag and you're just going to have to make a couple putts.

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT