BAY HILL INVITATIONAL
March 16, 2001
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIGER WOODS:  With the wind blowing like it was, you had to control your trajectory and I felt like I was able to do that for the most of the day.


Q.  How much were you motivated by the way you finished yesterday? 

TIGER WOODS:   Well, I felt yesterday I really played solid golf.  It's just that I hit one bad shot at the wrong time, which cost me three strokes.  Of course, I was frustrated and a little disappointed with the way I finished, but if you look at the overall round, I really played pretty solid.  And I just need to go out there and do it again.  I should be able to shoot a halfway decent shore. 


Q.  I saw you grab your elbow after the first swing, any discomfort  --

TIGER WOODS:  Well, when you almost hit your right foot coming down, it's not going to feel good. It was like a half shank/skank out to the right in the dying swale.  Not one of your natural shots.  I hit it up there on the green from there and made a good putt.  2-putted and got my four.


Q.  Still fairly confident about where you stand heading into the weekend? 

TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I feel like, obviously, I've left a couple shots out there, just because of the fact that I made triple.  But I feel like I'm hitting the ball really crisp and I really feel, you know, pretty good over my putts.  I feel steady and I feel like I'm releasing the blade again.  The putts, if they are not going in, they are just missing, which feels pretty good.


Q.  Annika Sorenstam shot a 59 --

TIGER WOODS:   I heard about that. 


Q.  Eight birdies in a row, went out in 28.  You haven't even done that yet, out there.  Your reaction to that?

TIGER WOODS:  I haven't done it out here, but I've done it before.  It's an incredible feeling when you get on a roll like that.  Obviously, you just told me she made eight straight birdies.  You need to have a roll like that in order to go that low.  When I did mine, I was 10-under through nine holes.  In order to shoot a low number like that, you have to get on a roll because you can't miss too many holes.  And, obviously, she's playing beautiful golf.  She played beautifully last week and she's continuing.   Good for her.  She's a great player and she's fun to watch.


Q.  Are you surprised that things are so bunched on the leaderboard.  Conditions didn't get awful, or at least it didn't seem to?

TIGER WOODS:   It was really windy out here.  I just ripped a drive on 9.  I hit a 3-iron in there.  It's not too often I actually blister a drive.  And the last two days, I've hit 3-iron into that hole.  The golf course is playing pretty long.   The greens are pretty soft and pretty receptive.  The pins were tucked a little bit and you to be very careful going into the greens that you did not short-side yourself.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT