WGC EMC WORLD CUP
December 8, 2000
David Duval
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIGER WOODS:   I thought we played beautifully today.  The shots that we hit poorly, each other bailed the other person out.  David made a lot of putts, which was great to see.  He putted just like he did yesterday.  And I actually hit the ball a little bit better today, which was nice. 

Q.  The unusual format, foursomes stroke-play is something that we don't see much of.  We only see foursomes match-play in the Ryder Cup and Presidents Cup.  How do you feel about this format? 

DAVID DUVAL:  It wasn't really hard, but it seemed that, you know, around the 14th hole, after we got to 5-under or something for the day, it felt like we should have been shaking hands and going in.  The match would have been over in the Presidents Cup or Ryder Cup.  Now it is totally different.  The main difference, it wasn't a more difficult format.  It's just that you're used to being done quicker, especially if you play well and make a lot of birdies. 

Q.  For both of you, what was your opinion of the gallery after the second day of play? 

DAVID DUVAL:  I thought the gallery was great.  You know, the only difficulties there were really the first few holes yesterday.  I think the marshalling has been very good. 

Q.  What was the difference in your game today, because we saw you playing very well, and yesterday you didn't risk much.  What was the difference? 

TIGER WOODS:  As for me, I played better today.  I hit the ball better, and it was nice to be able to step up there and see a shot that you wanted to hit and actually be able to pull it off; and that was the fun part about today.  All I needed to do for me was just hit the ball on the flat surface, and he made the putt.  Wasn't too hard. 

Q.  It seemed like you picked up your groove on the back nine.  You made like five birdies in a row.  Was there something that happened on the back nine, or was there something that prompted your success on the back nine?  

DAVID DUVAL:  For me, the answer is pretty simple.  I think that we were playing pretty well the first 11 holes and then picked up 3 birdies.  On the 12th hole, we didn't hit a particularly nice shot, and put it in a position that you should make a 5 from, and Tiger hit a golf shot that, you know, I wouldn't  -- I wouldn't try to hit.  Just an unbelievable shot.  And we made par when we should have made a bogey, and that kind of kept us going.  It kind of kept us in the game. 

Q.  For both of you, I am interested in knowing if you do any physical work to feel okay on the back nine, any stretching or physical...

TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, we work out.  (Laughter.) Did we do any extra stretching on the back nine to hit the ball better?  No, I think it was hot enough that we didn't have to do anything.  (Smiling.)

Q.  How much discussion was there on who drove first and who drove odd and who drove even, or was it pretty obvious to you which way it should go? 

TIGER WOODS:   We talked about it for a little bit, and neither one of us had a problem with it either way.  On the first tee, I said, "You know what?  Why don't you go ahead."  "Okay.  That's fine."  That's how much discussion we had.  (Laughter.)

Q.  Well, the 17th hole looked difficult for you in both rounds.  What specifically is the problem that you have found in that hole, because you had a pretty similar shot both days.

TIGER WOODS:   Yesterday, I was out of the hole.  I was in my pocket early, after hitting the ball out of bounds and put a lot of pressure on David to try and make birdie.  It just didn't work out.  But today, David drove it over the right; and fortunately, I had an easy lay-up.  The fairway is easily seven yards wide, and I couldn't hit it with a 9-iron.  And that left David in a position where he had to play defensive.  He had to come in there with a shot out of the rough, in case, if it flew, he had to protect; and it came out soft and spinning and came up short, and we 2-putted from there. 

Q.  Tiger, what do you do to keep your motivation, your concentration so high in every tournament you play, because you have won everything that you can win.  Every tournament you play, you play as if it is the first one.  How do you do that? 

TIGER WOODS:   Well, I think a lot of it is just I enjoy competing.  I love to compete.  And if you love to compete, then, obviously, when you go out there and play, you want to do the best that you possibly can.  That's as simple as it gets.  It's not really that complicated as a reason why I get up for every round I play.  It's just because I thoroughly enjoy going out here and having the challenge of trying to beat the best players in the world.  If you can't get up for that, it's hard to get up for pretty much anything. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT