MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2018
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How would you assess your round out there today?  
TIGER WOODS: Well, again, I didn't play the par‑5s well and I didn't hit a lot of good iron shots. It was the same as yesterday. Boy, I'm putting so well today, this week. I'm hitting so many good putts, they're just not going in. But I'm not hitting it close enough. I'm not getting up there and not taking advantage of the par‑5s and consequently a good round is even par.  
   
 Q. A TGR Design question. Bill Long in Chicago, he says you're really excited about the Jackson Park South Shore Project. Why are you excited about it?  
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I think we're going to have a chance of giving the community something I think pretty neat, pretty substantial and I think it will be great for the community. And it's something very different than that they have ever had there in the city of Chicago. And if we can pull this off I think it can benefit so many people on the south side and hopefully we can do it.  
   
 Q. How did President Obama help persuade you to get involved?  
TIGER WOODS: Well, he, obviously he actually called me about it and I'm not affiliated with the library and they're doing their own thing, we're obviously working with the state and working with the parks, so we're two different entities. But still just to have the opportunity to work with the President on something like this in his home city, I'm ‑‑ the south side, you know, we can give them so much hope in so many different things and I think this is a tremendous opportunity.  
   
 Q. What's the best thing you can gain from these weekend rounds?  
TIGER WOODS: Oh, hopefully I can hit my irons better. It's been scratchy this week. I just haven't gotten it done. I feel like I'm driving it better than I have all year, but I am not capitalizing on it. And when I did miss I missed in the wrong spots. My swing's just off with my irons just at the wrong time.  
   
 Q. You're going to move back into the top 100 in the world by making the cut here. Given that you were outside the top thousand when you came back in December, just curious, do you consider that any kind of a milestone? Obviously I know you would like to get higher, but.   
TIGER WOODS: I'm just kind of gradually working on it, gradually building. I was pretty far out there, I think, what, I'm going to guess like over 1,400 or something, whatever it was. But to gradually kind of build my way back into it, I've had some success in this come back and I'm getting there. I wish this week would have been a little bit better, hopefully tomorrow I can shoot something, get me to even par or even in the red, I think that will be a good goal tomorrow and hopefully I can get it done.   
   
 Q. No. 12, hitting the green.   
TIGER WOODS: How about that? You know, I just, I just couldn't do it three days in a row. I just couldn't do it. And I gave it a little bit more gas on it and made sure that I was long if I did miss and I hit a good one in there. And missed the putt, but, hey, you know, that's a lot easier to play the hole from the green than it is dropping.   
   
 Q. What happened on 15?  
TIGER WOODS: On 15?   
   
 Q. No, I mean on 17.   
TIGER WOODS: 17, I hit it up the right side, caught the tree and went straight right. It was a fairway hit, what are you talking about? (Laughing.)  
   
 Q. Had you ever been over there before?  
TIGER WOODS: I have, but this was back when there was those two big mounds back in the old days. We were blocked out by the mounds back in those days. But it wasn't a bad angle to come in from the right to the left pin. I remember Raymond telling me if you can hit it far enough, hit it over there on 15 you'll have a great angle to the back left pin. But that hole's not, doesn't play that way anymore. You got to hit it up there in between the trees.  
   
 Q. Do you have more respect for No. 12 now, given how tough it was the first couple days?  
TIGER WOODS: It's a tough little hole. I hit two terrible golf shots though. They weren't close to being dry. So it's just the way it is. You can hit marginal shots there and get hosed, but those weren't marginal shots, those were just terrible golf shots.  
   
 Q. Were you having those iron issues pretournament or even in practice or anything?  
TIGER WOODS: No, I was not. That's why it's disappointing and a little bit frustrating. But I haven't been sharp with them, given the fact that I was playing well coming in, my practice sessions have been good, and just have not executed the way that I have been.   
   
 Q. Do you know what the problem is?  
TIGER WOODS: I know what the problem is, I'm struggling trying to fix it on the fly and trusting it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT