THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY SOUTHERN COMPANY
November 5, 2000
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIGER WOODS: I thought overall today was not exactly a day I wanted to have, but I felt
good about the fact that I was actually able to contend, as poorly as I was feeling, over
the shots and some of the drives I hit today. But I gave myself a chance and it just
didn't happen.

Q. You said yesterday that you had gotten a lot out of your game; got some good bounces
and breaks. Did you feel that you got some bad breaks today with the same golf swing or --

TIGER WOODS: No, it wasn't -- it wasn't the fact that I got bad breaks. I just hit bad
shots and same as always, everytime I keep telling you guys mind the shaft down, same
thing. Just one of those things where I just couldn't get out of my swing this week and
last week I had it in my game, easier golf course, here the penalty is a lot more severe
and hence, I paid the price. 

Q. Following up, timing problem was the main thing getting stuck and a timing problem
with the swing, is that --

TIGER WOODS: Well, that is an easy way of looking at it.

Q. That is simplify it?

TIGER WOODS: That is simplyfying it.

Q. You are so hard to read when you are out there. But were you giving yourself a pep
talk or you and Steve talking things over when you really couldn't get it rolling because
you stayed patient and knew what you were working with within yourself, but were you kind
of giving yourself a little pep talk?

TIGER WOODS: Just trying to be as patient as possible, yeah. This is very similar to a
major championship. You need to keep hanging in there; keep grinding it out even -- you
know the guys aren't going to boat-race it and shoot 62 in a final round like they did
last week. It wasn't going to happen. If I could just keep somehow -- put the ball in the
fairway at all costs, I felt good enough where at least I could get the ball on the green
and give myself a putt at it and was able to do that in the middle part of the round, I
was able to actually make some birdies, but I couldn't do that all the time. 

Q. On 15 hitting a 2-iron, was that kind of (inaudible) that is really all you felt
comfortable with trying to hit the fairway?

TIGER WOODS: I would have loved to have a nice high soft 3-wood nice, pretty shot out
there, but I am just trying to get the ball going forward, and keep it left of the tree
off the tee and from there if it stays in the fairway, great. If it goes in the rough, I
will play it. Just kind of one of those things, just trying to get the ball out there to
give myself a chance at making a 4. I felt if I hit 3-wood, I could have hit it left in
the trees or right in the trees, so I just tried to bump it along.

Q. Could you take us through 17, the shot in the sand and then the chip up?

TIGER WOODS: Second shot I had some sand on the right part of my ball that was sitting
up so -- which meant I had to come in with high left wrist and from the inside, so hit it
with the toe of the club and try and sweep it and hit a big hook in there. And I hit it
just a fraction fat, which actually rotated the toe even sooner and the ball started at
the flag; then went left, instead of starting at the right part of the green, and then
sweeping in. If I didn't have the sand on the right side of my ball I could have made a
normal shot, but that would have just been kind of muffled up there and probably would
have been short of the bunker or in the bunker. Next shot I had kind of a branch sitting
on top of the ball. I tried to somehow get the ball on the green. That was the main thing,
just get the ball on the green and from there try and make a putt and save it somehow.
Just didn't happen.

Q. You always allow me one ridiculous question per tournament. I haven't had one in
three tournaments, so I have got to ask you.

A VOICE: We will be the judge of that.

Q. Phil said in here yesterday you are pretty observant and you know when somebody is
playing well and swinging well. You watch them. You know what is happening. Phil said he
needed to get off to a quick, good start. He did that with the birdie the first hole and
kept playing steady golf. You kept watching it. Did that put any pressure on you and Vijay
at all?

TIGER WOODS: No, because as I said, it is a lot like a major championship atmosphere
out there with the fairways and the rough and the greens being as difficult as they are
and the pin locations, that even someone gets off to a quick start, you still got to play
some tough holes ahead of them. Anything can happen. So you just need to stay patient,
keep playing your own game, and more importantly just give yourself chances. If I could
have driven the ball a little bit better today, I felt like I could have put a little bit
more pressure on Phil, but that wasn't the case. I just tried to Band-Aid as best as
possible and gave myself a wonderful chance to win and that is all you could ask for.

Q. In hindsight did the 15th probably not take advantage that -- did that probably cost
you?

TIGER WOODS: You know, you could say that, but it was a lot more than just that. I hit
some -- hit some interesting shots today and I made a couple of bogeys here and there that
I don't normally make, but that is just the way it goes. If you can look at -- if you just
look at 15 as being a pivotal hole, I think that is doing an injustice to some of the
shots I hit prior to that. (laughs).

Q. You did make three straight birdies - 7, 8, 9 - did you feel like it was coming
back? What happened then at 10; was that a key hole for you?

TIGER WOODS: Yeah, just got stuck again. I hit a wonderful drive off of 7. Hit a nice
solid iron shot in there. No. 8, hit a terrible tee shot off the tee. I felt like I fanned
it, but stayed in the fairway somehow. Then hit a good iron shot in there, made the putt
10, the tee shot I hit straight on the heal kind of a high pop-up cut, and Vijay got all
the way down the bottom. I didn't even come close getting down to the bottom. From there I
hit a great 3-wood and made birdie. Then on 10, they just added up again, another stuck
shot. This time I didn't hang on it. I said, just release it and there it went straight
left.

Q. Was the 2-iron off the first tee was that indicative that you weren't comfortable
already or was that?

TIGER WOODS: No, because it was downwind. We have been playing the wind into us off the
right on the first hole everyday. That was downwind off the left. Which meant that the
fairway narrows up a little too much so still just hit 2-iron -- I still hit 2-iron,
9-iron.

Q. Last eight rounds in the 60s and you come up third, second, what is your reaction to
that, how do you feel about that and what does that tell you, you are not close...

TIGER WOODS: I feel pretty good about it because if you have actually watched some of
the rounds, it is not pretty. But I am managing my game well, I am getting it around,
giving myself chances; making the key putts. Somehow making an up-and-down here and there
to keep the momentum going. Hit a duck-hook, hit a high slice somewhere, and somehow make
par.

Q. What does it say about the competition out there?

TIGER WOODS: They are playing better than I am.

Q. After all the success you have had the last year and a half, people are almost
surprised when you don't win, when you get in contention. Have you almost set a bar that
is almost a little bit too high to -- expectations maybe a little bit too high that people
expect to you win every week new and when you don't, they wonder what is wrong?

TIGER WOODS: That has been the case since I have almost, I think, probably since 1997
it has been that way. Granted 1998 it really wasn't kind of the case there, I kind of was
changing my game, but at least people could understand that. But then I started getting it
going, and been winning a few times here and there.

Q. Big schedule coming up. Where are you going the next few weeks, where are you going
to play and are you concerned about what that may do to your trying to get your game back?

TIGER WOODS: I am going to Spain, London for a day, Thailand, Hawaii, L.A., Argentina.
That is all.

Q. It is a shame you don't get frequent flier miles?

TIGER WOODS: You ain't lying.

Q. Does that do anything to whatever timetable you have to get into shape for next
year, fatiguing you?

TIGER WOODS: That is why I am not going down to Australia.

Q. With everything you have accomplished this year, are you going to be disappointed if
you don't get 10 victories?

TIGER WOODS: You know, it would be nice if I did. But if I didn't, I didn't. That is
just the way it works out. Probably more than anything, if I -- if I don't accomplish the
10 wins, then obviously that will be disappointing because I was close to doing it. But
the fact that I won three majors in one year is not a bad thing either.

Q. (inaudible)

TIGER WOODS: I have had, as I said, a lot of good things go my way. I have played well
at the right times and I have been able to make key shots at the right times, and it has
added into victories. Sometimes I have actually played poorly coming down the stretch and
have somehow snuck out a win. And that is just luck. I have been very lucky, some of
breaks I have gotten, and I have actually executed good shots at the right times as well.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT