MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2018
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How was it out there for you today?
TIGER WOODS: Well, I felt like I hit it off well off the tee. I hit my irons awful today. I didn't control my distance, my shape, spins. I left myself in bad spots. The only good iron shot I hit today all day was at 4. And the wind laid down and I hit a little chip tee. That kind of summed up the whole day. And a lot of beautiful putts and didn't make anything. 

Q. (No microphone.)
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, that was one of those. It was sitting a little left, a little right. Just trying to‑‑ and then unfortunately I'm right in between 56 or 60. And thinking, okay, if I draw the 60 I should hold it on the silt. If 56 I'm playing more towards the center because I'm cutting and spinning off the slope. A little 60. Next I'm in the gallery. That wasn't exactly a great start. 

Q. Any of this attributed to the wind?
TIGER WOODS: No, it was me. I didn't hit the ball very good. 

Q. To keep it in perspective, you made the cut at a major championship, what does that mean?
TIGER WOODS: I was just talking to Tom and them inside and it was putting it in perspective, six months ago I didn't know if I'd be playing golf. Forget playing at the Tour level, I didn't know if I ever be playing again. But it's incredible for have the opportunity again, to still come out here and play this golf course. Now I know I'm on the weekend. Even though I'm a lot behind, if I play a special weekend, shoot two rounds in the mid 60s, you never know. 

Q. How much does the course physically get you?
TIGER WOODS: My training has been good. The amount of cardio and amount of lifting we've done. I've kept my legs strong, I've kept my legs fit. I was good there in that regard. 

Q. After two days and the pressure and the practice rounds and everything, are you tired right now? Is it something that you're not that used to despite all that?
TIGER WOODS: No, I am pretty fresh, actually. I think there was‑‑ the amount of training I've done, and the amount of work we've done in the gym, it's paid off. It's given me the opportunity to keep my legs and my core strong, to help me protect my back, but also to handle this grinding. 

Q. (No microphone.)
TIGER WOODS: I hit a crap shot. It was a bad shot. It was like the same shot I hit at 1. Same shot with a longer club. 

Q. Talk about the young player from Chile. He's turning professional now. He made the cut.
TIGER WOODS: I've seen his swing, and it's got beautiful action. From what I've seen so far is just an amazing talent, and the world is ahead of him. So just enjoy it, enjoy the process of it. Coming to the professional ranks, it's a little bit different. It's about gaining playing opportunities, which is going to be a bit of a challenge. With that talent he'll make his way through it and make his way out here. 

Q. (No microphone.)
TIGER WOODS: It was a big move for me. That was 20 some odd years ago. It was a huge jump for me to go from playing amateur golf, to Western Am, Collegiate golf to the professional ranks. And these guys are so much better and deeper than we were in amateur golf. There was quite a bit of difference for me. 

Q. You said shooting mid 60s, do you have that in you?
TIGER WOODS: Yeah. I would have done it the first two days, if I would have quit playing after 16. I would have had it. Let's see if we can get 18 holes tomorrow.

Q. What happened on 12, again, today? 
TIGER WOODS: Stuck in the ground again, trying to hit a flat cut. I was trying to hit it flat, and I leaned on it too much and got a little bit ahead of it.

Q. The iron thing, is it an easy or simple fix?
TIGER WOODS: I know what I need to do, I'm just not doing it. I need to do a better job of it tomorrow. If I can drive like I did today, feeling‑wise, and hit those shots, give myself a chance, and if I clean up my iron play. I'm hitting so many beautiful putts, right around the hole. So if I get off to a quick start and get it rolling, get some momentum going, which I haven't had so far. 

Q. Not a lot of people scored well today. But Reed is having an incredible day. 
TIGER WOODS: I looked at the board. He's got three bogeys right now, and 6‑under for the day. Under these conditions? That's impressive. We were thinking that probably 4‑ or 5‑under might be the lowest round out there. But he's proven that wrong. He's playing great. We all know the kind of talent he is. Just a beautiful putter, just a great combo for this golf course.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT