U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2000
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIGER WOODS: I birdied 4, hit a 2-iron off the tee. I hit a 60 degree sand wedge to
about a foot; made that. 7, I hit a pitching wedge to about 20 feet left of the hole and
made that. 10, I hit a driver and an 8-iron to about 15 feet and made that. 13, I hit a
driver and a 9-iron to about a foot and made that. 14, I hit a driver, driver; pitched up
there to about a foot, tapped that in. 18, I hit a driver, 4-iron in the left bunker,
blasted out to about a foot and a half and made that. 

TIGER WOODS: The best shot of the day was probably 11 from the right rough. That was
probably one of the worst lies I've ever gotten. I was able to advance it up near the
green, and got it in for par. 

Q. What about the other ups-and-downs?

TIGER WOODS: Well, 5, I hit it left of the green, pitched it down there to about 8 feet
past the hole and made that. No. 9, I hit a 2-iron off the tee, a 5-iron to about 8 feet
above the hole, and ran that by about another 8 feet and made that. 11, 3-wood in the
right rough, blasted out of that -- terrible lie, and hit it up at about pin-high left
rough; chipped it down to about 12 feet and made it. 15, I hit driver in the right rough,
chipped -- hit a sand wedge short of the green; chipped up to about 6 feet short of the
hole and made that. 17, I hit a 4-iron long. Ran the chip by about 12 feet and made that
for par.

Q. Tiger, after your round yesterday, after your practice round yesterday, you went
back and did a lot of practicing with the putter. Is there something specific? Did you
find something? Were you happy with today's results?

TIGER WOODS: Yesterday, actually since I've been here, my stroke hasn't been as
comfortable as I'd like to have it. I was making putts, yeah, but there are certain ways
of making putts. Either they go in properly, or you just kind of scoot them in. I didn't
like the way I was rolling the ball. I was making quite a few putts in practice rounds,
but the ball wasn't turning over where I'd like to see it roll. And I worked on it for
about a couple of hours yesterday and found that my posture was a little off, my release
wasn't quite right, I wasn't releasing at the right time, and I just needed to get,
basically, some reps in. Once I get enough reps, I feel a little more comfortable; and
today I putted beautifully.

Q. Tiger, after saying all week that you thought that par would be a good score on any
hole, when you woke up this morning and saw the conditions were rather benign in regards
to the wind, did you change your outlook at all to become perhaps a little more
aggressive?

TIGER WOODS: Not really. I think a lot of us, it depended on how well you're driving
the golf ball. If you're driving it well and driving in a lot of fairways, obviously
you're going to have some chances and have situations where you can attack. But today,
early in the round, I was able to do that. I had a couple of situations where I had some
wonderful lumbers, in the fourth hole. I had one on par-5, 6, even though I missed it to
the right of the green. I had some pretty good situations where I could fire on the fly. I
was able to take advantage of that. 

Q. Tiger, if you find that you need to play aggressively on this course, first of all,
can it be done; and secondly, if it can, is it done from the tee or is it done around the
green?

TIGER WOODS: No, this golf course -- always felt that I -- I played here in the State
Amateur once like this, and it was fast. If you can drive the ball well, you can drive it
down there where you can be aggressive. If you're not driving well with this rough, the
ball isn't going to run. And there are a couple of holes where, if you're feeling
comfortable with your driver, you can drive the ball down the hill. Like on 9, for
example, you can drive the ball down where you have a little 9-iron wedge into the green,
or you can lay back on the top of the hill and putt that way. All depends on how
comfortable you feel. And today I felt pretty good overall of my tee shots. I hit a couple
of bad ones, but most of my shots were pretty good.

Q. Tiger, at the Masters you dug yourself a little bit of a hole, and you had to play
catch-up most of the rest of the tournament. Just wondering how important you thought it
was to get off in the tournament to a little more solid start.

TIGER WOODS: Well, I think it's a lot easier to play from a spot near the lead than it
is when you're that far behind. I've had a lot of guys I had to try and pass. And I was
very fortunate to play as well as I did on Saturday in The Masters, to make my way up the
leaderboard, and then have the conditions be as demanding as they were that afternoon. So
I got a good break there. But you can't rely on that each and every time. You need to go
out there and play well. At Augusta, I really did play well. I just had a couple of bad
rolls, and I doubled 10 and tripled 12 the first day. Other than that, I played
beautifully. That's just the way it goes sometimes. And today I just tried to go out
there, and I felt if I could drive the ball well, then I could score. And today I drove it
beautifully. 

TIGER WOODS: Well, it's definitely one of my better rounds I've played. It's the lowest
score I've shot in the Open. But I think, all things considered, probably my best round in
an Open was probably back in '96 in the second round. The debacle I had on Thursday, and
then to come back and shoot 69 as an amateur, I thought was pretty good. 

Q. Tiger, you have such a great record of winning off of third-round leads. Do you
understand about yourself what it is that makes you so comfortable in that circumstance?

TIGER WOODS: I've always felt that it's nice to lead, because if you make the mistake,
let's say you have a 1-shot lead, at least you have one shot to play with. I always felt
I'd much rather have the lead than try to catch up. If you shoot the same score as someone
else that's leading the tournament, you lose. I'd rather be leading.

Q. Tiger, you had such a remarkable final round here at the AT&T. Obviously, the
course has changed. But when you walk out on the course now, do you feel that, after that,
there's a little bit of leftover feeling of that time?

TIGER WOODS: To be honest with you, no, just because the golf course is so different
than what we played. We played under conditions where the ball is backing up in the
fairway. It's not really doing that out there. For instance, it's not too often where I
hit a 4-iron off the hole. I hit a 4-iron, 8-iron, the fairways are running, it's
downwind, the ball is flying. Normally a 3-wood off the tee, let it plug back up, and
you've got a 6- or 7-iron to the green. 

Q. Tiger, if you would have talked to a hundred people before the tournament started,
99 would have identified you as the favorite. I realize this isn't an original question,
but would you talk about those expectations?

TIGER WOODS: To be honest with you, I go out and play. If someone wants to say that I'm
the favorite, then so be it; the underdog, so be it. But I just need -- I just focus on
what I need to do. To be honest with you, I don't watch TV -- actually, I got pretty good
vibes last night after my Lakers won. 

Q. I believe you played here -- (inaudible.)

TIGER WOODS: I really don't know. I remember the golf course being really long. We
played in the fall, and I think it was probably November we had some rain, and I just
remember the golf course playing just so long. But when I came back again, I played the
State Amateur; I had grown-up a bit and added some length, and I thought the golf course
played short.

Q. How did it play today?

TIGER WOODS: It played difficult today. The fairways were fast; the fairways were
running. And you can run out of room on some of those dog legs if you don't shape your
shot properly.

Q. Tiger, this is a little off the beaten path. What was your thinking and thoughts
about not going to the Payne thing, and practicing? What were your thoughts?

TIGER WOODS: I've figured I've gone all through it with the memorial service; and I
felt by going, it would be more of a deterrent for me during the tournament, because I
don't want to be thinking about what transpired. Plus, also, Mark O'Meara is one of my
best friends, and we both went out and played. And he's known Payne longer, and he felt
the same way. He felt that we've gone through it all before, and we don't need to keep
bringing it up, especially during a big week, even though most players would like to do
that. It all depends on how you are personally. If that's how you want to put closure to
it, that's how you want to put closure to it. I handle things a little differently.

Q. Tiger, on the 14th hole, you went for the green in two today -- (inaudible.)

TIGER WOODS: I had 257 on the front, which I thought I could hit 3-wood to with no
problem. But I did feel that was the play, because if I hit a 3-wood and it flies in the
bunker, it could bury. I went with a driver, tried to get -- trying whatever not to cut
it, so it doesn't run up the gap. I was trying to put the ball in the rough, short of the
green, over in the bunker. The driver -- I felt if I could hit the ball out of the bunker,
it would roll up the bank and back down and still be on the upslope of the bunker. That
didn't happen. I pulled it a little bit, got underneath the tree, and played a good shot
from there.

Q. I want to clarify something you said out on the green-side. Did you call it
"June gloom"?

TIGER WOODS: Well, people from So-Cal, you know. This is what happens every June. The
fog, the low clouds roll in. They burn off in the early afternoon, and you have a
wonderful summer. But generally, that's the way it is along the coast.

Q. Tiger, what do you think about Jesper's orange shirt (laughter)?

TIGER WOODS: Well, he was noticeable out there. You could see him in the fog, that's
for sure. He's our beacon, so no one would hit into us.

Q. Tiger, you've gone over your play on the 18th hole, but I wonder what you could see
from the tee, what you could see on the second shot, and you couldn't see much. How did
you go about lining up for those two shots?

TIGER WOODS: Well, I know where I need to line up on 18 off the tee, so I went with my
target out there. And there are a couple of -- my hazard stake wasn't visible, but there
were three corporate tents out there in a line, and that fit perfect with the line I
wanted, and I ripped it right at it. Unfortunately, I did cut it just a little bit, so I
ended up in the first cut of rough. And from there, I just tried to punch the ball up
short of the pin, either in the bunker or up in the gap, where I had a chip or putt if I
happened to roll it up on the green. And the ball -- the wind was coming off the left. I
hit it right to the flag. I hit it up in the bunker, and it was an easy bunker shot.

Q. Tiger, some of the people that were expecting a challenge, didn't get it today,
anyway. What do you remember from Jimenez from Valderrama?

TIGER WOODS: What do I remember about him at Valderrama? I know that he and I had a
wonderful little battle down the stretch. We both played well on Sunday, and I made a few
birdies. And I was able to catch him and pass him for a little bit, then he came back and
had a little incident on 17. But Miguel is a wonderful driver of the golf ball. And
because of that, he usually plays well on golf courses where it is tight. And Valderrama
is one of those golf courses, this is one of those courses. And that's what you need to
do. And he's obviously doing it pretty good. Plus he's a darned good putter. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT