GTE BYRON NELSON GOLF CLASSIC
May 13, 2000
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. (Inaudible.)

TIGER WOODS: Actually, I got a lot out of this round today. I did not hit the ball very
well, and was actually able to make a lot of putts and able to scramble and get around
with 67. 

Q. Conditions today were a little different than the past two days? 

TIGER WOODS: Completely opposite wind than we've been having. It was pretty difficult
to judge the intensity of the wind. You know the direction of it; just hard to judge the
intensity of it. Because you get a couple gusts out there and you send a couple balls
long, a couple balls short, and one of those hit-and-hope kind of deals.

Q. (Inaudible.)

TIGER WOODS: The wind did help, to be honest with you. I was drying to hit a high draw
and I hit a low pull. Thought I got away with it. It's nice to hit a low pull like that
and it works out. 

Q. (Inaudible.)

TIGER WOODS: It all depends on what he does, what the guys do at 5- and 7-under. They
go out there and post a great number, 5- or 6-under par, then it's going to be very
difficult to catch them. But if they come back a little bit, then it will be a different
story. 

Q. (Inaudible.)

TIGER WOODS: Well, starting out, it was hard to make birdies. It's usually when you do
make your birdies, going out. But any time you can play the last three holes downwind, it
always makes things a little bit easier.

Q. Is the rust still there? 

TIGER WOODS: No. I feel -- I was telling Stevy today -- each day, I've felt better. And
it feels -- I hate to say it, but it feels like I'm getting my competitive edge back. And
that just happens when you're competing and feeling the pressure, knowing what you need to
do, what swings you need to make to get the ball up there on the green or in the fairway.
It's not your textbook swing that makes it look real pretty, just what you need to get the
job done. And when you're off a little bit, you tend to lose that. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT