GTE BYRON NELSON GOLF CLASSIC
May 11, 2000
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







TIGER WOODS: Tough conditions, a little rusty, and unfortunately, just couldn't quite
post the score I wanted to post. 

Q. Why? 

TIGER WOODS: A little bit of the wind. Just didn't quite hit the shots the way I wanted
to, and just didn't have the feel of my game the way I should.

Q. Did that change as you went around toward the end? 

TIGER WOODS: It was that way all day. When you haven't really played competitively in a
while, the hardest part is coming back and being able to compete at a high level for a
long period of time, and that was the hard thing today. I could do it for a little bit,
but it was hard to do it the entire day under these conditions.

Q. (Inaudible.)

TIGER WOODS: Yeah, if it's calm, it's really no big deal and you can get away with
miss-hits shots. Today with the wind blowing this hard, miss-hit shots are going to be
magnified to the point where you hit it in some places where you probably shouldn't be.

Q. Are you well-rested?

TIGER WOODS: Well-rested.

Q. In the past, Tiger, when you've had so much rest, you've come back strong and played
well. What do you think the difference was today?

TIGER WOODS: As I said, it was just a little windy, and the scores on this course
probably won't be too well. If I could have just played the back nine halfway decent, I
would have been right there at even par. Maybe possibly better. But that's just what
happens sometimes. As I said, you're a little rusty and I just didn't quite have the feel
of my swing. Even starting out, I didn't really have the feel of it, but I got away with
it enough, but it was hard to get away with it for 18 straight holes.

Q. On 18, the tough lie, that shot?

TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I didn't end up in the greatest of places, and I thought I hit a
great shot. It was just a foot away from being perfect. And in with a bogey, and that's
just the way it goes sometimes.

Q. Is that what happens when you're just a little off? 

TIGER WOODS: Yeah, just sometimes that's the way golf Gods are. They look down upon you
and sometimes they say it's your day and sometimes they say it's not. 

Q. Now with plus-three, do you want the wind to blow like this the rest of tournament?

TIGER WOODS: Well, I have mixed feelings about that. If it blows like this and I hit
the ball like I did today, obviously no. In order to make up ground, I'm going to have to
have it windy like this. And the forecast for tomorrow is windy. If I can go out there
tomorrow and actually shoot a good round over there Cottonwood; it's the easier of the two
courses. If I can get off to a good, solid start and get a few make a few birdies early
and keep it going, I can get right back in this tournament.

Q. How is the course overall, do you think?

TIGER WOODS: Course played very difficult today. The wind was blowing. It wasn't
swirling, thank God. Played the wind the way it was all day. Same direction all day. Only
difference is we got gust and it was very difficult to putt. 

Q. 18 coming into the wind, it's awfully tough.

TIGER WOODS: That hole is usually a 3-wood or driver off the tee for me, and I usually
have a 9-iron to the green. Today, I ripped a drive and debated between three and four,
and that normally happen on that hole.

Q. How are the greens playing?

TIGER WOODS: The greens are fine. They are not as fast as I've seen them in years past.
They are quick enough that I know they probably kept them a little slow because of the
wind; didn't want to get the greens out of hands. They were starting to pick up towards
the end of the round.

Q. (Inaudible.)

TIGER WOODS: You know, you just want to keep hitting fairways and greens, putt and move
on. I did that most of the day, I just couldn't quite hit the shots the way I wanted to
when I needed to. That's the way it goes sometimes. I tried on every shot. It just didn't
come off. 

Q. Timing? 

TIGER WOODS: A lot of it is timing. Not just feeling as comfortable as you should over
a shot. And it's a little bit different playing out here than it is on a weekend round
with your buddies for a little cash. It's a different type of nervousness and intensity
you've got to have on the shot. 

Q. (Inaudible.)

TIGER WOODS: I think it's just because of Mr. Nelson. Everyone wants to play here
because it's his tournament. And not only that, what they do for charities in this local
area. It's just tremendous what -- how much they give back to the community. And we as
pros do a lot of that; we want to be associated with that and try and make that even
better. 

Q. (Inaudible)?

TIGER WOODS: Yeah, it's a little special. A few tournaments are just normal TOUR
events, but a little more special.

Q. What will you work on this afternoon? What will you do? 

TIGER WOODS: Probably my right thumb on the remote. (Laughs). Make sure I've got the
channels just right.

Q. You're not going to hit any balls?

TIGER WOODS: If it dies down, yeah. But in this wind, it really makes no sense to hit
balls because you're going to hang on your left side, beat the ball, be straight into it
and that's not the kind of habit you want to ingrain. 

Q. Get out of your rhythm?

TIGER WOODS: You would a little bit, be beating on it too much, and that's the last
thing you need to do. 

Q. (Inaudible.)

TIGER WOODS: 14, yeah, I was buried. Buried under the back lip on the downslope. A good
spot. It's playing hard out there. I mean, the birdies you make are probably going to be
early. You're going to have to try and hold on towards the end, because, obviously, if
you're playing into the wind, downwind holes are the ones you've got to capitalize on.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT