BAY HILL INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY COOPER TIRES
March 16, 2000
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Tiger, how was your round? 

TIGER WOODS: I did all right today. It was nice to actually hit some solid shots again.
I drove it very well today. I only missed two fairways today, so I was very pleased the
way I drove the ball. Had a few birdie putts, but I didn't really get myself in a lot of
trouble today. 

Q. Do you feel nice and fresh after vacation?

TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I do. I took a week off . Actually, a week and a half off. Came back
refreshed and ready to go. 

Q. How much of a factor was the wind? 

TIGER WOODS: Pretty big factor. It's blowing pretty good right now. We didn't play the
up tee on 8, no way, but some of the guys could catch the green in two. I made a great
drive today and was able to hit 7-iron in, but Olin hit a 4-wood in there, and this is
from the up tee, but from the back tee, no way. 

Q. Are you hoping it stays windy? 

TIGER WOODS: Well, if you're hitting the ball well, you always want it windy, and right
now I'm hitting it pretty solid. Put in a lot of good work and it's starting to pay off. 

Q. Any thoughts on the NCAA tournament?

TIGER WOOD: I think it's going to be the Cardinals and Michigan State in the finals.
That's what I'd like to see. 

Q. Who do you want to win?

TIGER WOODS: Of course, the Cardinals. 

Q. Do you think 3 is a good number today?

TIGER WOODS: Anything under par is pretty good. When we started off the day over on 10,
I told Stevie that if we could shoot something in the 60s, it was going to be a good solid
round and I was able to do it. Today the conditions are so hard out there, the greens are
so firm that some of the balls are just bouncing, shooting over the greens. 

Q. You always say you play well after a few weeks off. How do you feel?

TIGER WOODS: I feel pretty good. I was able to -- as I said, take a week and a half off
and didn't really do anything. Didn't touch a club. Came back and ready to go. 

Q. How was your putting stroke?

TIGER WOODS: Pretty good. I hit so many good putts that just didn't go in. I made a
few, but I hit so many of them that just looked like they were going in the hole from
about two feet out and just didn't go in. But it feels good to actually step up there and
see the ball role again, instead of having -- (inaudible) ... exactly. The little
2-footers are just gimmees now, which is nice. 

Q. What happened with your tee shot on 3, you stopped, was it a shadow that bothered
you?

TIGER WOODS: No. What happened was a little bug flew right over my ball. If I had
continued, I would have caught a fly and didn't want to hit it that far.

Q. Is it nice to be playing at home?

TIGER WOODS: Yeah, it feels good to be playing at home. A lot of my friends were out
here today, and it was nice to be able to play a good, solid round.

Q. You said earlier that this was a would be a good sentimental tournament to win, just
for Arnold because of the respect you have for him?

TIGER WOODS: For anybody who wins this tournament. Obviously, Arnold is the King and he
did a lot for the game of golf, and to win his own tournament, it's quite an honor. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT