WGC ANDERSEN CONSULTING MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 23, 2000
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIGER WOODS: Well, I knew going into today's match it was going to be a good match.
Michael obviously has been playing pretty well. And I knew if I could get off to a good,
solid shot, hit a lot of shots in there tight and hopefully make a couple of putts, I
could put the pressure on him and get up early and hopefully maintain it. That's what I
was able to do today. 

Q. Tiger, you talk a lot about motivation, but I'm wondering if you could talk about,
based on how you've played lately, which isn't up to your standard, if there's extra
motivation going out there to, say, everybody is talking about Campbell, and how
"It's me and him; let's show who it is"?

TIGER WOODS: Michael has obviously been playing well of late. And I just hope everybody
didn't forget I've been playing good for the same stretch. So even though I didn't play as
well as I'd like last week, the only thing I was really missing was my putter. If I would
have made a few putts, I would have been right in the ballgame last week. But I'm playing
better now, putting better. I knew that if I played my own game, put pressure on Michael,
things should be all right in the end.

Q. Could you talk about, go inside just a little bit and talk about your
competitiveness, and tell us if you could, you're the No. 1 player in the world, something
is talking about somebody No. 65, being on par with you?

TIGER WOODS: Obviously he's playing well, and that's what people are looking at. This
game is a high level in which anyone playing well can beat any guy out here on Tour at any
given time. And especially with the 18 holes, it's not that long. So you have to actually
really play well. With the conditions the way they were, it suited my game a little better
than his. I'm able to hit the ball further, because I carry the ball further on soft
ground. And I just noticed a couple of times out there, his pitch shots, he didn't quite
have the feel for them, because of playing in Australia, the ground is so hard and so fast
down there that he came out throwing a lot of his pitch shots. I felt if I could just keep
putting heat on him, everything should be okay.

Q. You mentioned getting off to a quick start. Obviously the way you did, did you feel
immediately that you -- you got off birdie, birdie -- that was critical in this match to
kind of let him know what he was up against?

TIGER WOODS: I wouldn't say the birdie -birdie start was critical. But the critical
part was I made the par-putt on 5. I think that was huge. I just left a birdie par on 3
right in the middle of the hole about three inches short of the hole, and made a good
par-putt on 4, and he missed, and he didn't want to get right back by making bogey, I put
that one in the middle of the hole. And the next hole we both messed up. But I think the
putt on 5 was a big putt, because I didn't want to have him gain momentum after just
losing it, by 3-putting the previous hole. 

Q. Given the way you relish match play, can you talk about what it would mean for you
to get through the week and win this, kind of on the food chain of tournaments? It's not a
major, obviously, but just the match play factor?

TIGER WOODS: Well, I've had a pretty good record in match play, and this tournament is
something I thoroughly like to play, there's no doubt about it. Anytime we get a chance to
play match play, I like it. We play so many stroke-play events all year-round, it's nice
to play something a little different. This is what we grew up playing in amateur golf.
That's all we do is play match play. And it's nice to actually get a chance to do it at
this level, as well. Other than playing Ryder Cups and The Presidents Cup.

Q. Not a lot of momentum changes in this match, was there?

TIGER WOODS: No, because I made a couple of key putts. I was able to hold him off
because of that.

Q. Would you run down that 5th hole, what happened?

TIGER WOODS: I hit a driver to the left side, I had a 3-iron in my hand and my foot
slipped a little bit and hit it fat -- chipped up to about ten feet and buried it right in
the middle of the hole. And he had a putt from about 2 feet, and I gave it to him.

Q. I know that you obviously focus on your game an awful lot. Did you feel him pressing
a little bit when you went to 3-up for 4?

TIGER WOODS: I wouldn't necessarily say pressing. I knew that he wasn't -- if you look
at his shots for the first four or five holes, they weren't as sharp as he'd like to have
them. If I could keep putting pressure on, keep putting pressure on by driving the ball in
the fairway -- and the problem was that he was hitting first most of the day. And he
wasn't hitting the ball in there tight by hitting first, to put pressure on me. And that
gave me a free run at some of my iron shots. I tried to take advantage of that. But on the
par-3s, I was able to hit fours, so I tried to put pressure on him that way. But most of
the day he was hitting first, and wasn't quite as sharp as he's been the last couple of
weeks.

Q. Would you like to have had more of a challenge?

TIGER WOODS: No.

Q. Tiger, your putting has been, last week your putting wasn't so good. It's better
today. Did you do something different? And how much can you take out of a day like today,
anyway?

TIGER WOODS: I have changed a little bit. I went back to some of the things that we've
been working on over the past couple of years. I just kind of got away from it just
because the greens were not very good last week. There were so many guys 3-putting and
4-putting last week. It's pretty amazing how many guys 4-putted last week. I know of 7
guys that 4-putted last week, and one 5-putt. So I know it wasn't just me. But I wasn't
rolling the ball on top of the grass the way I'd like to. It wasn't getting off the top
and rolling and holding a slide. If you really do roll it well, it's going to hold its
line. I wasn't doing that last week. I went back to releasing the blade a little better,
and I was getting the ball rolling better today.

Q. How tough are the conditions out there?

TIGER WOODS: Look at it now. I don't think they're going to finish play today, that's
for sure, if it keeps up like this.

Q. Tiger, I know you like the format of match play. Do you see yourself looking ahead
for the bracket, or do you focus on your opponent?

TIGER WOODS: You have to look at it one match at a time. It doesn't matter who's in the
bracket, because if you lose to your opponent, who cares? You're going home, and everybody
is still playing in your bracket. So you have to take care of business when you have to
take care of business.

Q. Do you like it more because it's almost like it's a Sunday for four straight days?
And I know --?

TIGER WOODS: Five days. Well, I like it for the fact that -- we don't get a chance to
play one-on-one very often. And in a tournament situation in a stroke-play event, we play
3 and a half days, and you might have a one-on-one situation in the final group. Very
rarely, though. It's usually a couple of groups ahead, somebody shoots a good number, and
all of a sudden someone behind tries to win the tournament. It's very rare that two guys
separate themselves where they play all 18 holes one-on-one. It's only those two guys in
the field playing head-to-head. So it's nice to have that feeling of playing one-on-one.

Q. Tiger, last year at this point, your game was still coming together. What would you
have rated it then on a one-to-ten, and what would you rate it now on a one-to-ten?

TIGER WOODS: It's a lot better now. 

Q. No A game, B game for you today?

TIGER WOODS: Or percentages.

Q. Tiger, did you call each other last night to coordinate your clothing?

TIGER WOODS: No, I wore black socks.

Q. Considering the danger of match play in general, regardless of who you are playing,
is there any sense of relief to just have this one behind you, and does that help as far
as your mindset from now on?

TIGER WOODS: It's always nice to not only win your first-round match, but to play well
in the first-round match. That obviously gives you a little bit of confidence going into
your next match that you went out there and won your match; the guy didn't give it to you.
And considering how well Michael has been playing, to go out there and play as well as I
did, I feel I really did play well. 

TIGER WOODS: First hole, I hit it in the left rough; hit out a pitching wedge to about
8 feet -- sorry, 10 feet and made that. The second hole, I hit a driver and a sand wedge
-- driver, 6-iron to about 18 feet and 2-putted. 9, I hit a driver and a 3-wood over the
green. I pitched up to about 15 feet and made that. 11, I hit a driver, 3-wood, pitched up
to about two and a half feet, he conceded. And on -- that was 12. 13, hit a driver and a
7-iron to about 3 feet. He made five, I conceded my three. 

Q. Is that the only bogey?

TIGER WOODS: Yes. 

Q. Tiger, I know you take this obviously one match at a time. But how do you feel that
the two highest seeded players in the bracket, Nick Price and Phil Mickelson are done?

TIGER WOODS: When you play match play at this level, it doesn't matter what the seeding
is. You could have a champion that would be No. 64, but because the guys are so good at
this level, with 18 holes anything can happen. That the -- once you start playing at this
level and in this tournament, the seeds, you can throw them out the door. It was proven
last year that it really doesn't matter what you're seeded. 

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT