THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY SOUTHERN COMPANY
October 28, 1999
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Tiger, how is the wrist?

TIGER WOODS: It is not my wrist. It is my whole arm. And all it is a pinched nerve.
Nothing more than that. I don't have the strength I normally have, and definitely don't
have the mobility. They will fix it. I will be all right.

Q. Can you describe what happened and the decision to go and play?

TIGER WOODS: If I go ahead and move the rock, the ball will move because it was
quivering up on pine needles. I would incur a penalty if the ball moves. If I took two
club lengths, I would still be in the rough, the tree in my line; in fact, I couldn't
probably save par. A bogey would be a good number. If I could somehow get the ball back
out in the fairway, which is what I tried to do.

Q. You looked like you were in a lot of pain. Have you had something like this happen
to you before?

TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I have separated my wrist before, dislocated it while I was playing,
but popped it back in there. I was all right. But all it is is a pinched nerve.

Q. Do you think you will be okay for Saturday?

TIGER WOODS: Oh, no worries.

Q. What kind of treatment do you think you will receive?

TIGER WOODS: It is up to them. I don't know.

Q. How tough was it to go out there and play and be competitive and still think about
Payne?

TIGER WOODS: I put Payne aside and focused on my round. Of course, there were times
when I thought about him or would have flashes of him, but I have tried to put him aside
and get the job done. Tomorrow it will be a tough day. 

Q. Tiger, you have played through pain at different times. I remember something like
that happened at Shinnecock?

TIGER WOODS: Yeah.

Q. What do you do, just guts it up say, I am going -- I mean, you grimaced on that 18
-- on the last hole you played, and what, put it two feet?

TIGER WOODS: I hit it up there about four feet above the hole. Those are times when you
just have to accept the shot and know it is going to hurt, go ahead and hit it, and at
least make it count. It is like being a wide receiver going up the middle, you know the
guy is going to lay you out, but at least catch the ball.

Q. Did the rock make you lose --?

TIGER WOODS: If you look at my club, I have a hole in my club. It squashed off the
grooves so the grooves are completely flat. So it was an interesting shot.

Q. So what do you do to take care of this kind of injury?

TIGER WOODS: Depends on what the guys will do to me in the trailer. I don't know what
they are going to do. But they will get me fixed up the guys in there.

Q. They will get it done?

TIGER WOODS: You got it. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT