U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 1999
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIGER WOODS: Well, I like it a lot. The golf course is playing a little more friendly
than I thought it would. I thought the rough would be higher, the fairways be narrower.
But when I played here Monday on Memorial, I figured the golf course wasn't going to be as
severe as I thought it was going to be. I think the USGA recognized a fact they made a
mistake yesterday, with the fairways being narrow.

TIGER WOODS: I'm learning how to play the game. I'm only 23, and I have a long way to
go. I recognize that. I know that. But I've come a long way, as well. And I've learned by
watching other players play. I've learned from my own mistakes, but I think most
importantly of all is I've learned, and I'm not afraid to go out on the golf course and
apply what I've learned. I think what you're seeing now is a player who has learned from
my mistakes or other players, and I'm applying it on the golf course.

Q. Tiger, have you played long enough to develop a favorite architect, and where does
Donald Ross stand?

TIGER WOODS: He ranks right up there. I've always loved traditional golf courses. To
me, it's the ultimate. I don't know why. I think it's because it's not artificial. Most of
the golf courses they had to work with and the equipment they used, they had to go ahead
and use natural terrain to their advantage. And nowadays, you can build -- I remember at
Arizona State, it's a flat piece of desert that they made hills and mounds and valleys,
where you can't even see. That's what they can do now with our modern equipment. And
Donald Ross ranks right up there as one of my favorites.

Q. Tiger, you've been out here a couple of days now. What kind of shots, clubs, bumps,
lobs have you been using to sort of get around the greens? And have you found one that you
might rely on more than the other?

TIGER WOODS: You know, I think it's a feel thing. And I think it all has to do with the
lie you have. Because I don't know if you've been on the golf course and looked at it, the
grain coming off the greens and where it ends and how much it swirls in the bottom of the
slopes. So with that in mind, anytime I'm going against the grain, I'm probably not going
to chip it, because higher risk of stubbing it, really. Putting it, using a 3-wood,
something of that nature, and running along the ground. When I go downgrain, I can use it
to my advantage. I don't have to worry about stubbing it. The way I hold my hands, I hold
them pretty low when I chip, which means the grain is left-to-right; I have a chance of
catching the nozzle or heel of the club in the grain and duffing it. So again, when the
grain is running from right to left, because I hold my hands low, I can use a chip shot
motion; so it all depends on what the lie is, and that dictates everything.

Q. Tiger, the bottom of your shoes, are you wearing soft spikes and spikes? What's on
the bottom?

TIGER WOODS: It's a Nike design where it's a traction control. Where I do have spikes,
yes, but they also have a neat little design -- I went out to Nike, and they did a whole
research on my swing and how the forces of my weight change in my shoe. And they built a
shoe where it will stabilize my momentum, really, and my weight transfer. If it works with
me at my speed, I think it can work with most people. I think that's the whole idea. 

Q. Tiger, this is not a course a whole lot of the field is playing in a competitive
situation. How much more important are the practice rounds? How much more emphasis is put
on them? What extra things do you do to get yourself used to this course when you go out
on Thursday?

TIGER WOODS: You try and play as many holes as possible, but you don't want to go ahead
and burn yourself out by Thursday. What I've found to work best is just go ahead and play
the golf course, but chip and putt a little bit and get a feel for the short game. This
golf course from tee-to-green is very simple; it's around the green where it becomes
complicated. And because of that, I think you need to spend extra time chipping and
putting, not only on the golf course, but on the practice green, as well, to try to get a
feel of the shots you're going to have to use on the golf course.

Q. Tiger, you played here as a Junior at Pinehurst No. 7 years ago. You got a lot of
attention then, but clearly not like anything today. Can you talk about the difference in
the feeling when you were a Junior here and the evolution of Tiger mania over the years?

TIGER WOODS: I think I played had here in '92, I was 16. And boy, it's changed a lot
since then. I guess one thing is that I think I got a little more in my pocket now
(laughter.) But that's changed a little bit. I think a lot has changed. My life has
changed from the fact that when I go out in public, people recognize me. Before I was a
golfer, I was a Junior golfer and nobody knew me. I think people in the local area in the
golfing public may have known or heard of me, but not to the extent that it is now. And
that's just from the endorsements. That's from the playing -- the way I came on the scene;
how I came on the scene. A lot has changed since then, but one thing that has remained the
same is I love to play.

Q. Tiger, with what looks to be the wider landing areas off the tee, and the rough not
as high an Open response, does it feel like a U.S. Open? And secondly, could you talk
about your strategy on the rough? Assuming you can get a 6-iron to the green, is that
still the smart shot?

TIGER WOODS: Well, with the wider landing areas, it provides an opportunity for you to
use a longer club, whether that's a driver or 3-wood, not necessarily an iron off the tee.
And in most U.S. Opens, you see guys using 4-woods, 1-irons, to try to keep the ball in
play. This week, the fairways are a little softer. You can hit it out there and know if
the ball lands in the fairway it's going to stay, as of right now. But I think if you get
the ball in the rough and you have a hot lie, I think you've got to always be conservative
and put the ball short, and make sure if it does come out hot, it's not going to zip over
the green. Every hole here over the green is not good, and that's the way it's been
designed. Short is fine; you can get up-and-down from short of the green. Over the green,
you can get up-and-down, but your chances are definitely reduced. And since you do know
that, go ahead and play accordingly. If you hit the ball in the rough, make sure you play
short. If it comes out hot, great. If not, fine, I'm chipping straight up the hill or
putting or bumping-and-running or whatever it is.

Q. Tiger, I know Jack Nicklaus has come back recently. I was just wondering what the
golfers feel if an event is bigger if he's here, and what you feel an Open is going to be
like when he doesn't play anymore?

TIGER WOODS: I played in Arnold Palmer's last British Open at St. Andrews. That was my
first British Open. I never played before then. But to feel the loss of a name like that,
a legend, a living legend like that, that can still play competitively, the tournament
took on a whole new light. And when Jack eventually hangs it up and doesn't play in major
championships, again, I've had a chance to play with him in practice rounds. I played
right in front, Davis and I, last year in The Masters, when he was making his roar, his
charge. It was just vintage Nicklaus. And not to have that anymore I think will put a new
twist on the tournament. It won't be as big as it normally is. 

Q. Tiger, would you elaborate on the use of the metal, wood club around the green? You
mentioned the 3-wood and what that club allows you to accomplish on the short shots.

TIGER WOODS: I'm sorry?

Q. Tiger, would you elaborate on the use of the 3-wood around the greens and what that
club allows you to do that other clubs may not?

TIGER WOODS: One, you see the difference between a putter and a 3-wood. My putter has
got 4 degrees of loft, versus my 3-wood, which has 15. Because my 3-wood has more loft, it
enables me to put the ball on top of the grass faster and running, especially when I've
got grain to deal with. And here you do. You have grain to contend with. And I think the
biggest thing is that when you have to hit a putt up the hill that hard and try and judge
the pace, you take it back further than you normally do, you're not used to that motion.
You don't get a chance to do that very often, unless you play on links courses in Europe.
But over in the States, we don't get a chance to do that often. But a 3-wood motion, you
can hit it easier; it has more mass, longer shaft. It won't kick. And you don't have to
hit the ball as hard; so hence the loft, the longer club, the more mass, all equates to
having not to have to hit the ball as hard, and it gets up the hill easier.

TIGER WOODS: I normally don't. I rarely ever touch it. But this week, I'm using it a
little bit more, because I'm going to use it a little bit more. I rarely ever practice the
shot, really. I don't know why.

Q. How do these greens compare to Augusta National and the areas around the greens?

TIGER WOODS: Augusta is different in the fact that they have quadrants to hit to. But
then again, their quadrants are smaller, and on top of that, their slopes are steeper on
the greens. Here, the greens aren't that severe, once you get on the putting surface. Once
you start rolling off the sides on the false edges, then the golf course becomes very
severe, and I think that's the difference. Instead of having all the slopes be right there
on the putting surface, they're on the edges. Because they're on the periphery like that,
you can hit good shots that happen to hit the slope on the wrong side, and you're 20 yards
away from the hole.

Q. Tiger, can you pinpoint one or two things that have made the difference between last
year at this time when you were playing well but not winning, and the last month when you
have won?

TIGER WOODS: I kept telling everybody that I'm making some changes in my game. And it's
going to take some time. And I didn't like the way I played in '97, even though I won some
tournaments. I didn't really like it, because of the fact that it wasn't consistent.
Anybody can win when they're hot; that's not that hard. But it's hard to win when you're
off. And you saw at the Memorial on Sunday, I wasn't playing that well, but I managed my
game well. I used my short game to my advantage, and I went ahead and beat Vijay. These
are changes that I've made over time. And it was a matter of time before it started
clicking. It wasn't going to happen overnight. I knew that. They're not as severe as you
think, not like Faldo's changes where he went from a reverse C-swing to a guy who covers
the ball, and completely reconstructs his golf game. I'm not that severe. But I did make
some changes to my swing, playing, my grip, the way I released the club, and a lot of it
had to do that I wasn't as happy with the way I was playing. I wasn't as consistent as I
wanted to be. A player may not win every week, but they want to have a chance to win
Sunday on the back nine every single time they tee up. You know you can win your share,
but it's a matter of getting there. And getting there means you have to be more
consistent.

Q. Tiger, you said a couple of weeks ago that you were striking it when you were in
Germany. And as you said, you had to get yourself out of trouble. Where are you right now?
Where do you think you'll be on Thursday? 

TIGER WOODS: Hopefully, it will be like Germany, I hope. But my game is definitely a
little better than it was at Memorial, which I've been doing a little work, and I saw some
things that we didn't like. My mom was able to tape my rounds at Germany and at Memorial.
She FedEx'd them to me, and we analyzed both swings and saw a big difference. Well, in
Butch's eyes, to the trained eye. But we made those changes, and they're starting to come
together. And I'm glad I've got a couple more days.

Q. Can you explain it easily, what was out of whack?

TIGER WOODS: Posture, swing plane, the way I was coming down. My arms were lagging a
little behind, right elbow. That's the basic stuff.

Q. Tiger, did you rent a house here for three weeks? And also, have you moved all your
own furniture in?

TIGER WOODS: What? No. No, I'm staying with Mark O'Meara and his family. And no, not
for three weeks, no. I'm just here for this week.

Q. Tiger, could you analyze your play in recent U.S. Opens, and what do you think
you've done to maybe take yourself out of contention, and how that might be different this
week?

TIGER WOODS: Well, the previous U.S. Opens, I wasn't as good a player as I needed to
be. I wasn't hitting the ball as good. That's just plain and simple. In U.S. Opens, if you
hit the ball poorly, you're not going to be around. And fortunately enough for me, I was
able to chip and putt and get it around good enough where I was making cuts, but I wasn't
in contention. That's also one of the reasons I changed my game to become more consistent,
to shape the shots correctly. When I do miss it, it's not two fairways over like it used
to be. And I know some of the guys here have seen me in college; seen the way I used to
hit the ball. TR saw me in San Diego in Junior World, and it's changed now.

Q. You talked a lot last year about being tired and the demands on you, with Tiger
mania. And I wonder if you've gotten more comfortable with it now?

TIGER WOODS: I have become more comfortable with it, over the past, I'd say, about a
year and a half I've become more adjusted to it. I understand a little bit more about it.
Plus, with David Duval playing as well as he has, he's taken a lot of that spotlight away
from me, and trust me, I'm not mad at that. Heck, keep it. But now that I've won a couple
of tournaments in a row, the fans are a little more eager than they were last year, and
Tiger mania is not as high as it was after The Masters, but definitely not as high as the
Byron Nelson in '97. I think that's when it reached its crescendo. I don't think it will
ever be as high as that.

Q. Are you going to handle it differently? 

TIGER WOODS: I'll just be myself.

Q. The same question I asked David: Much has been made about the fact that you guys
haven't had a head-to-head competition. When that happens here or whenever it is, major or
just another tournament, will you look at him as just another guy you have to beat, or
will it be: Okay, here's the confrontation we've all been waiting for?

TIGER WOODS: I don't think it's the latter. Just because when you're in that mindset
and you're in the heat of the moment, I don't care who you are. You're not going to say
this guy, I have to beat because of such and such. This guy is just a person that I have
to beat, period, no matter what the situation is. Even though Mark O'Meara is one of my
best friends, we went head-to-head at Pebble Beach and at the World Matchplay in England.
He's my best friend, but I wanted to take him down just as bad as he wanted to take me
down. It's not going to change the fact that it's David Duval and Tiger Woods locking
heads. It's the fact that he's an opponent and I have to beat him.

Q. He said about the same thing, except that afterwards if he beat you, he'd maybe
gloat more than just the average guy. What do you remember about the tournament you played
in '92? You had a Junior tournament. How did you do, and what specifics do you remember,
if any? 

TIGER WOODS: I won the tournament. I don't know how many shots I won by, but I know
that I really played well that week, for me. I hit the ball long, I was hitting it
straight, I was making a lot of putts. And usually those things add up to some good
things; add up to a victory then.

Q. Tiger, more on your rivalry with David Duval. To this point, you've downplayed it.
Would you agree that you seem to bring out the best in one another?

TIGER WOODS: I don't know if you can really say that, because we haven't really gone
head-to-head. I think Memorial a couple of weeks ago was the closest it's ever been, where
he made a charge early making the eagle on 7, and getting within a couple of -- three or
four shots. If he would have kept going with that, kept making a few more birdies, it
would have been Vijay, myself and David all going head-to-head. And I think that would
have been something else. But we haven't had a chance to go head-to-head, either he's
played great and I haven't played so good, or it's vice-versa. We haven't done it together
in the same tournament. It will happen one day, the odds are in our favor, it will happen.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT