THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY MERCEDES-BENZ AND MICHELOB
October 28, 1996
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  (Inaudible.) And if so, how much are you looking forward to that?
 
TIGER WOODS:  Well, I really don't know. 
 

Q.  You've got two weeks off, right?
 
TIGER WOODS:  I have about three weeks.  I'll do a little practicing, work on a few things, but overall it's going to be very light, and that's about it. 
 

Q.  Tiger, could you talk about the whole TOUR Championship experience?
 
TIGER WOODS:  I'm glad it's over for a number of reasons. Obviously the main reason is my father.  But I'm awfully glad I got off this course, it kicked my butt this week. 
 

Q.  You had a nice finish there?
 
TIGER WOODS:  It was yeah, it was a nice punt.  I played well today.  I just made one terrible mistake on 17, made a 7.  Other than that I made five birdies and that's it.  So I played really well today. 
 

Q.  Tiger, who do you think is the front runner for the Player-of-the-Year?
 
TIGER WOODS:  I really don't even know what was going on.  I don't know how many guys -- how many tournaments each person has because I just got out here.  I really don't know. 
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
TIGER WOODS:  It does make it a lot easier the fact that I've played well and I've built up a lot of confidence in the way I've played.  And my results in tournaments have shown that.  I'm ready to play out here right now and I'm looking forward to having a full year at it. 
 

Q.  You mentioned your father and your concern about him, but how much was taken away from your own enjoyment from the elite field and a championship course as you tried to play here?
 
TIGER WOODS:  The first round was fine.  But the second round I could really give a rat's butt, because there's more important things in life than golf.  Golf is very minuscule when it comes to your father.  And it was awfully hard playing, but he wanted me to come out here and play and do my best, because I earned my right to be out here.  And it was awfully hard, because I didn't want to be out here at all.  Looking back at that time it was probably one of the toughest rounds I've ever had to play because of the condition my father was in. 
 

Q.  We talked to a number of kids about being out here to see you and a lot of their parents said they could see the impact your parents had on you in the way you handle yourself.  Family is very important to you?
 
TIGER WOODS:  Family is extremely important, it's the No. 1 priority in my life and always will be.  Without family here you really don't have anything.  It's nice to have two of the best parents in the world.  And I love them to death. 
 

Q.  Tiger, I know it's a way away, back here in 5 years, do you think you'll be a favorite at the U.S. Open in 2001?
 
TIGER WOODS:  Who knows, I probably can't hit a shot by then or or I might be playing well, I really don't know. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT