U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 1996
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIGER WOODS:  Overall it was pretty good.


Q.  The ruling on 14 kind of sent things into a spiral. Did that affect you at all?

TIGER WOODS:  No, not really.  I had a nice putt at it.  Unfortunately, I had to chip it because there was a drain in the green, but I hit a bad chip, but hit a good putt; unfortunately hit a bad tee shot the next hole.


Q.  Talk about 16, bad break on that second one out of the drop area when it spun back in?

TIGER WOODS:  I thought I had a good shot playing left to the hole trying to use the slope, bring it back into the hole, hit it right where I was aiming, right at my spot. Unfortunately, it wasn't enough stick.


Q.  You seem to be in pretty good spirit.  Do you think it is going to bother you tonight?

TIGER WOODS:  Put it this way, a lot of work ahead of me tomorrow.  I have got to play really good tomorrow.


Q.  What emotion are you feeling?

TIGER WOODS:  Good and bad.  Up and down.  That is the kind of day it has been.


Q.  Are you hurting?

TIGER WOODS:  Am I hurting?  Physically or mentally?


Q.  Emotionally.

TIGER WOODS:  I am fine.  Life goes on.  That is the  great thing about golf.  Another round tomorrow.


Q.  Do you have to be more aggressive tomorrow?

TIGER WOODS:  Definitely not.  Tomorrow is another day at the U.S. Open.


Q.  The play between you and Daly was built as the two big hitters.  Did that influence you or impact you in terms of you guys banging it out there in the fairway?

TIGER WOODS:  I played my own game.  I didn't care what he did, because he is going to play his own game.  No matter what I do out there is strictly dependent on what I feel; not the way he is playing and that is the way I have approached it and it worked.


Q.  Some people these are valuable lessons.  What do you think?

TIGER WOODS:  I learned a lot at the last round when I shot 80.  I am sure I will learn the same thing today.


Q.  Talk about how you were feeling when you were 3-under.

TIGER WOODS:  I didn't really feel much, because I knew I had a lot of holes to play, and I had to keep playing my own game.


Q.  (inaudible)

TIGER WOODS:  I was trying to hit shot after shot, one shot at a time.  I did the same thing all day.  Unfortunately, my swing kind of left me a little bit.  Some errant shots.  Out  here, you can't do that.


Q.  What were you guys talking about when you (inaudible)?

TIGER WOODS:  Oh, talked about, you know, off the wall stuff, just chit-chat, small talk.


Q.  (inaudible)

TIGER WOODS:  I have done it before very recently, as a matter of fact, the last U.S. Open round actually.  I am very happy the way I played.  Put it this way, I was kind of surprised that the lead was actually 3-under out here.  I thought it would be like more 4, 5, because it is so soft.  I figured someone would get hot, just like someone always get hot the first day.


Q.  (inaudible) you said you kept hitting shots -- (INAUDIBLE)

TIGER WOODS:  I was doing that all day.  It is kind of hard to maintain it.  Unfortunately, it happened to me down the stretch.


Q.  How was it out there, I mean just the conditions, the course?

TIGER WOODS: Yeah, it was pretty wet.  Very wet.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT