PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2020
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Thoughts on the day and what a battle it is out there?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, you know, I drove it great today.  That's one of the things I wanted to clean up from yesterday.  I didn't do as good a job yesterday of driving the ball as I needed to.  Today was different.  I drove it great.  Missed a few irons on the short side.  Didn't get up-and-down.
And I really struggled with getting the speed of the greens today.  They looked faster than what they were putting.  They were firm coming into the greens, but they weren't putting as fast as they looked, and then as the day wore on, they got a little more fuzzy and got even slower, and I struggled even a little bit more hitting the putts hard enough.
Q. Some guys were saying the putting green didn't quite match up --
TIGER WOODS:   Oh, they haven't all week.  The putting green is faster than the golf course.  It's been like that all week.  Again, but some of the pins were up on crests so you're putting into the grain early and then you go past the hole, and it's downgrain.  I didn't want to make the mistake of blowing it past on a few of those holes and I left them short and on the low side.
Q. Can you still win here?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah.
Q. Is it the type of course you can see some big swings on the weekend?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, absolutely.  This golf course is -- with the dots for tomorrow, they've got them in some tough spots.  Tomorrow I'm going off early and hopefully I can get it going, drive the ball like I did today, hit my irons a little bit more crisp and be a little bit more aggressive on the putts.
Q. Will a big key be just the speeds, getting that early and getting into a rhythm?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, as I said, for me they looked faster than they were putting.  That's always the toughest combination I've always found, making that adjustment.  You give it a run, but it just -- it's just not rolling out.  Early in the round I had a couple putts that were downwind and the wind was blowing the putts a little bit.  J.T. got affected a couple times today with the wind gusts, and I did on one hole pretty badly.  Again, if I can get myself in position where like I did today off the tee, I think I can have a really good weekend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT