U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2015
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. I saw you looking down at Jason.  What were your thoughts?  Were you aware that he had taken ill?TIGER WOODS: Not ill, no.  But I know he was laying down there.  And I know he didn't play in Dallas this year because of vertigo.  And I played with him at Memorial and we talked about it in depth, and did a blood panel and all that stuff.  I hope he's okay.  I'll call him as soon as I'm done here and see if he's all right.Q. You're concerned?TIGER WOODS: Yes.  He's one of my really close friends.  I'd like to get out of here and see if he's okay.Q. Not the two days you wanted, Tiger, is there any consolation?TIGER WOODS: I wanted to shoot 5 or 6 today.  But I wanted to be on the other side of it.  But I hit a little bit better today. But, again, I made nothing today.  I didn't make any putts the first two days; I hit it better today.  Hitting some spots where I could hit some putts; I made nothing.Q. Where do you go from here?TIGER WOODS: Just continue practicing, continue working on it.  And hopefully it will be a little bit better.Q. (Inaudible.)TIGER WOODS: On a golf course like this you get exposed and you have to be precise and dialed in.  And obviously I didn't have that.  Obviously I need to get a little better for the British Open and I'll keep working at it.Q. What did you think of the 18th hole as a par-4?TIGER WOODS: It's tough right now because it's downwind.  But that right bunker comes into play.  And you've got to take it up the left side.  So you either decide:  Do you take it up the left side or hit 3-wood off the tee and lay it up for the right bunker?  I think it's 324 to the right bunker, but that's nothing downwind like this. We didn't think they'd put the pin there.  That was a bit of a surprise on that one.Q. (Inaudible.)TIGER WOODS: I'm playing the same events.  My schedule is set for the summer.  And I'm playing every other week.  I'm excited about it.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT