U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2015
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  How disappointed are you with the results today?  TIGER WOODS: Not very happy, that's for sure.  It was a tough day.  Got off to a bad start.  I stuck that 6-iron in the ground on the first hole, and then just couldn't quite get it turned around today.   Q.  From the practice range to the course, you seemed to be hitting it fairly nicely on the range warming up in practice the last few days?  TIGER WOODS: It's one of those things, just got to work through it.  I'm trying as hard as I can to do it, and for some reason I just can't get the consistency that I'd like to have out there.   Q.  What's the hardest part of today, Tiger?  TIGER WOODS: The hardest part is trying to leave yourself below the hole and you can't because the putts coming down the hills are just -- they're tough to make, put it that way.  But the bright side is at least I kicked Rickie's butt today (laughter).   Q.  Are you still convinced you're on your way back to where you want to get to?  TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I am, I am.  I know when I do it right, it's so easy.  It just feels easy to control, easy to do it, easy to hit all my shots.  I just need to do it more often and build from there.   Q.  How does it leave you feeling right now?  What positives, if any, do you take into day two here?  TIGER WOODS: I fought, I fought hard.  And that was my number.  I couldn't grind out any harder than that.  So that's just the way I played and unfortunately it was a high number today.   Q.  When you made the changes in the past, was it this difficult to implement them as it seems to be now?  TIGER WOODS: Depends.  Some of them, they were -- the patterns were somewhat similar.  Going from Hank to Sean was similar because you're on your left leg.  The bigger change was probably going from Butch to Hank, because I was on my right leg and I had to switch to my left leg, so that was a little bit different.  But now we're trying to go back the other way, so it's -- they're all not easy to do.  I've gone through tough phases in each one of these things and I've come out okay on the other side.   Q.  This is about as tough as it's been in your career?  TIGER WOODS: Yeah, it has, because I haven't had enough -- I haven't played enough.  I haven't had a rhythm to play.  I didn't play much last year and I haven't played much this year. Knee surgeries are pretty easy compared to a back surgery, the recovery time.  And for some reason, it's just a lot harder dealing with a nerve than a joint.   Q.  How do you turn the corner, Tiger?  TIGER WOODS: Keep working.  Keep grinding and keep working.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT