THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
July 19, 2020
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. What did you see in your game over the last four days?
 TIGER WOODS:   Well, I completed and played again.  It's been a while.  It was nice to get my feet wet and compete and play again.  Tough, tough conditions to start out my first week back, Thursday and Sunday.  But it was good to get the feel and the flow of competing again.
 Q. Talk about how difficult the conditions were.  What did you learn physically playing in this heat?
 TIGER WOODS:   Well, these were some of the more difficult conditions I've played in a long time.  Today the golf course got quick and got fast.  It was hard to get the ball close, and there weren't -- I don't think there will be too many low scores today.
 Q. What did you learn about your game that you'll work on going forward after five months off?
 TIGER WOODS:   Well, I didn't putt well.  I didn't feel comfortable playing break.  I've been in Florida playing Bermuda and seeing minimal break, come out here and playing 10, 12 feet of break was a bit different and something I'm going to have to get used to.
 Q. I think this is your 71st round at this tournament; is this as hard as you've ever seen it play?
 TIGER WOODS:   It's probably as quick as I've seen in a while.  It's been a while since we've had conditions this quick, but this is how Jack loves it.  It's just whether or not Mother Nature will allow it.  I think it's set up -- it's difficult, but it's not over the top.  Good shots are going to be rewarded, and bad shots are going to be severely punished.
 Q. How prepared are you after just four rounds if you were to go into the PGA Championship?
 TIGER WOODS:   Well, I think I need to work on my putting a bit and clean that up.  But as far as my swing, it felt good.  I was able to hit good shots.  Friday was a bit off physically, but overall for my first week back, it was a lot, a lot of positives.
 Q. Probably too soon, but do you feel like you would need more reps before you went to Harding Park?
 TIGER WOODS:   Competitive reps or more reps?  More reps, yes.
 Q. Competitive reps.
 TIGER WOODS:   I definitely need more reps.
 Q. I don't know if you heard the news about Jack and Barbara Nicklaus, they contracted COVID --
 TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I knew that.
 Q. Did you know and just your thoughts on that?
 TIGER WOODS:   I did.  I didn't know for a while.  The fact that they got through it and they're safe and here and healthy, it's all good news for all of us who are a part of golf and who looked up to Jack and been around Barbara all these years.  The fact that they're healthy is nothing but positives.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT