THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
July 18, 2020
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. General assessment of the round?
TIGER WOODS:   Overall I felt like I played well today, controlled the ball well.  I hit one really bad shot there at 3, but other than that, it was a pretty good, solid day.
Q. How much better did you feel this morning compared to yesterday morning?
TIGER WOODS:   A lot.  A lot.  Felt more like I did the first day, and that's just the way it is.
Q. What have you learned so far through 54 holes about where you're at right now?
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I think that getting back into the flow and competing again and playing at this level, I hadn't done that in a while.  Playing home and playing out here is so very different, and making sure that I stay sharp and don't make any silly mistakes and dump the ball in the wrong spots or give myself bad angles, that's one of the things about playing competitive golf that's very different from playing at home.
Q. That's why it was very important for you to make the cut?
TIGER WOODS:   Absolutely, absolutely, get a couple more rounds in me competitively.
I was fortunate the cut came back.  I made a little run at the end yesterday, and at times it was looking like it was going to be at 2, but fortunately I snuck in at 3.
Q. It looked like it was very difficult conditions out there.  Are you glad that the conditions are as difficult coming back for your first start in five months or would you have liked to have seen it easier?
TIGER WOODS:   I wish it wasn't blowing as hard as it did the first day.  Gusty and swirly is not how I would like to come back and start playing again.  But this golf course is right where they want it.  Jack can be happy when he sees the balls rolling on the greens this weekend and the run-out.  We were talking about that today, Brooks and I, how many pins today were three and four from the side when they're as fast as they are.  Normally you tuck them when it's soft, but not when it's getting this fast.
Q. How difficult is it out there?
TIGER WOODS:   It's tough.  It's fast.  The golf course is right where they want it.  Now that the wind has picked up just a touch, it's going to dry it out a little bit more.  The ball is starting to run out on the greens.  Some of the fairways are starting to chase, and you're starting to get like on 2, if you carry that hill on the tee shot, you're getting 60, 70 yards of run.  It's going to get to where Jack wanted to have it at the beginning of the week.  But they had rain on Sunday night or Monday, so they hadn't quite pushed it.  But it's certainly where they want it.
Q. How important was it for your psyche that you went from 76 to 71, bounced back in consecutive days?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I was moving better today and felt like I did the first day, and consequently I could make the passes at the golf ball like I did the first day.  Unfortunately I didn't make any putts today, so hopefully I can make a few more tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT