PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2014
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  TIGER WOODS:   That was tough.   I hit a lot of shots out there, 74 of them.   It was a long day.  
   
 Q.   How would you characterize the effort physically and mentally and everything else?  
TIGER WOODS:   I tried as hard as I could.   That's about all I got.   Unfortunately, just didn't play well.   So consequently a pair of 74s is not very good.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the injury with your back.   How was it during your round?  
TIGER WOODS:   It was sore.   No doubt it was sore.   It went out on me on the range.   Just had to play through it.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
TIGER WOODS:   I don't know.   I don't know.   
   
 Q.   Is there any regret at this point that you played?  
TIGER WOODS:   No.   As I said, it's not where the surgery was.   It's a different area.   When I fell out of that bunker last week, it's the same feeling, the same pain and same spasms.   
   
 Q.   Do you think that a long rest is a good idea?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I need to get stronger.   As I said the other day, I need to get my glutes strong again, my abs and my core back to where I used to have them.   They are just not quite there yet.   
Obviously by playing, you can't burn the candle at both ends.   I need to get stronger physically and be back to where I was.  
   
 Q.   What do you tell Tom Watson if he calls you and asks you about the Ryder Cup?  
TIGER WOODS:   I don't know.   He hasn't called.  
   
 Q.   Is there any point to the where your body is telling you (inaudible)?  
TIGER WOODS:   It was telling me on the range probably wasn't a good idea, but I'm not exactly a non‑stubborn person.   
   
 Q.   When you are back is hurting like that, Tiger, what part of the swing‑‑  
TIGER WOODS:   I couldn't make a back swing.   I can't get the club back.   Coming through is fine.   I can't get the club back.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
TIGER WOODS:   It throws everything off.   I can't get anywhere near the positions that I'm accustomed to getting to or any of it.   I can't do it.   I've got to rely on timing, hands and hopefully I can time it just right.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
TIGER WOODS:   It's hard because you want the bigger muscles controlling the golf swing.   I have got to rely on my hands to do it.   
The face is rotating so fast through impact because I'm just not able to get my arms and the body in the correct spot.  
   
 Q.   When this is the best you can physically, what is the level of frustration?  
TIGER WOODS:   It's very frustrating because the golf course is gettable.   It was as soft as it could be today.   I was shocked we didn't get any mud balls out there.   
You could play so aggressively to any of these flags, even 3 and 4‑irons for stopping.   The golf course was gettable.   
Phil went out there and he did what he needed to do.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, as I said, I just need to get stronger first.   We'll see from there.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
TIGER WOODS:   Hoping as fast as I can.   I don't know.   I felt like I wasn't that far away when I came back at Quicken Loans, but obviously the more I play‑‑ you can't develop strength the same time as you are playing a lot.   I need to get back in that gym and get stronger.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?   
TIGER WOODS:   Certainly very frustrating any time you have to sit out because of surgery and to deal with the things I've had to deal with this year.   It's no fun.   '08 wasn't a whole lot of fun, even though I won four times that year.   It still wasn't a whole lot of fun trying to play through that.   Consequently, I missed nine months.  
   
 Q.   You said yesterday that you felt good on the range but you weren't able to take that to the course.   Did you feel good on the range today?  
TIGER WOODS:   When I was warming up, I hit a 4‑iron out there I felt the same thing I had last week.   It's a matter of getting through it.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
TIGER WOODS:   It would have helped probably temporarily, but there'sreally ‑‑ it's kind of hard to put it into a place.   You need a table out there.   Not like we can call a time‑out and go in the locker room real quick like some sports can.   This is one of those things you have to keep going.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel old?  
TIGER WOODS:   I felt old a long time ago.   It's darn near 20 years out here.  
   
 Q.   Phil said yesterday (inaudible)?  
TIGER WOODS:   That's always the way I play.  
   
 Q.   Tiger, with the crowds that you had today and what you did here in 2000, I know this wasn't the round that you wanted to have here today what is the impact?  
TIGER WOODS:   The fans were fantastic.   They were cheering us on and so supportive.   It's a shame that I didn't get a chance to play here in '08 with the Ryder Cup here.   I couldn't imagine the atmosphere.   If it was in 2000 like it was this year, it must have been incredible here in '08.   These people are sports fanatics.   This is a great sporting town.   They showed up in droves and today wasn't exactly the best weather day.   They supported all of us.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT