PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2014
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You look disappointed.
TIGER WOODS:   It wasn't very good.   A lot of bad shots and I never got a putt to the hole.   I hit them all my lines.   Just for some reason I thought they were going to be a little bit quicker, and I didn't make the adjustment well enough. 
I had plenty of looks to turn my round around and then post something even par, even under par.

Q.   How much was state of game Tiger versus just not being here in 14 years?
TIGER WOODS:   As I said, I didn't play as well as I wanted to, and I didn't get a putt to the hole.   That's not a good combo.

Q.   Do you think of it has to do with (inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS:   Well, it is what it is.   I have the same opportunity as everybody else and just didn't get it done.

Q.   In terms of your swing, do you feel like it's where you want it to be? 
TIGER WOODS:   On the range it was, for sure.   I had‑‑ my swing was dialed in on that range out there.   Unfortunately, I didn't carry it to the golf course.

Q.   How's your back? 
TIGER WOODS:   It's a little bit stiff, but that's about it. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, yeah. 

Q.   Is it the surgerypart? 
TIGER WOODS:   The surgery part is fine.   That's all good.

Q.   Is there a learning curve since you haven't been here? 
TIGER WOODS:   Well, right now it's pretty bunched.   Right now I think 2‑under is in the Top‑10, so I just don't see this golf course getting‑‑ guys going super low here unless we get some rain.   If it softens it up, then the guys will start posting some lower numbers. 
The pin locations today were really tough.   They had some really tough ones right on the corners that if you short‑sided yourself you would have near impossible bunker shots. 
The one that Paddy hit at 9 over here was a joke how good that was. 
That's what can happen out there.   You can hit some good shots and short‑side yourself a little bit and it's impossible to get up and down.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS:   A little bit.   But I'm used to it.

Q.   Did you hit driver on 1 and 2? 
TIGER WOODS:   No, I hit 3‑wood on 2.   Driver on 1, 3‑wood on 2.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I get to under par by end of tomorrow, whatever that is.   Or end of my second round.   If we get storms, it could be Saturday.   If I get under par for two rounds, that will be right in the ball game.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, you know, unfortunately Phil and I just never get paired together.   It happens so rarely the first two days.   We're always on the opposite side of the draw.   Usually, if you look at most of the majors, exact same tee times just opposite sides.   It's always fun to play with him.   We just don't ever get paired up together the first two days.   A few times on the weekend, but we got to play our way there.

Q.   What do you think of the way he (inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS:   It was pretty good.   He didn't hit the ball that well starting out.   Hit a couple of left balls early and just fought back. 
I mean, as you know, he has got an unbelievable short game.   Some of the shots he hit, he had some pretty nasty lies out there around the greens, and he made them look pretty easy.

Q.   Are you going on the range the way you typically would like to?
TIGER WOODS:   Not today.   I'm going to go get treatment and make sure this thing is nice and loose for tomorrow.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS:   That putt was on top of the right edge and it just didn't move.   It just lipped it out on the high side.

Q.   Your fairway bunker at 18 looked‑‑
TIGER WOODS:   It buried, if you believe it or not.   The ball rolled in the bunker, hit the lip, came straight up and buried. 
I had a choice to play sideways or do I try and carry the next bunker.   I thought if I played an explosion shot, I might be able to carry that next bunker and get it down there.   The pin is only 4 on top.   So I took the chance, got it down there where I had an 8‑iron in there where I could spin it, didn't hit a good shot but at least had a good chance.

Q.   Did that stance bother your back?
TIGER WOODS:   No.   Because in the bunker shot I could just throw the right hand it and just explode it.   I just didn't know if I could carry it far enough with that ball being buried like that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT