WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 2, 2014
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  TIGER WOODS:   I missed a lot of opportunities out there.   I did not putt well again.   Unfortunately, just one of those things.

Q.   What kind of streak would you need to get in the running tomorrow? 
TIGER WOODS:   If I could hit the ball just a little bit better.   I hit it pretty decent today, which was nice.   I just didn't putt well at all again today.   I couldn't get comfortable with my setup, and unfortunately, it just kind of worked out that way.

Q.   Is this just the natural evolution of things, Tiger?   Are there any issues, any struggles physically? 
TIGER WOODS:   No, everything's the same.   I just need more reps.   Still continue to stay at it because I'm actually getting better the more rounds I'm playing.   I'm actually getting my feel back. 
Again, I'm hitting more shots pin high right on the numbers.   I just need to convert.   If I putt normal the last two days, I shoot 2, 3 under par, no problem.

Q.   Have you been back toValhalla since you've won? 
TIGER WOODS:   I have not, no.   I was going to go up there on Tuesday this week, but decided not to go. 

Q.   Is there something you can put your finger on with the driver, what's causing the issue of the driver off the tee?   
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I actually smoked it coming home, which is nice.   I figured something out there. 
Unfortunately, too little, too late.   But if I continue doing what I was doing coming in today, I'll be just fine.

Q.   What did you figure out? 
TIGER WOODS:   Just about loft, trying to put the loft in the right spots on my golf swing.

Q.   What holes are you most pleased with during your three days so far? 
TIGER WOODS:   The 19th. 

Q.   Did you change up your driver? 
TIGER WOODS:   I did.   I went back to my old driver from last year.   Has a lighter shaft in it.   I didn't want it‑‑ I like my driver that I've been using, but I didn't want to tinker around with it and put a new shaft in and ruin the club.   I figured the lighter shaft should help me out a little bit, get some speed back, because I'm just not quite as explosive as I need to be. 
As I said, I haven't done any explosive lifting.   I haven't done any of my fast twitch stuff yet.   As soon as I start doing my fast twitch stuff, I can get my speed back up and then I can go back to my old driver. 

Q.   You talked about getting the feel back.   Are you settled mentally when you're over the ball as far as what you're trying to do with swing keys? 
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I'm fine.   It took me a while to get my playing feel back again.   I'm starting to get the feel of my hands to hit the ball the right distance. 
That's something I didn't do a very good job at at Congressional.   Kind of hard to tell at the British Open because you're playing so many different kind of shots.   Each day I've done better with my hands and the feel and getting the right number.

Q.   Do you have a time frame when you're going to start lifting with your fast twitch and your explosive again or is it just as you feel? 
TIGER WOODS:   It's just when my doctors say I'm ready for it.   Because right now, you don't want to hit ‑‑ you don't want to do two things at once.   I'm hitting the golf ball and then they'll still want to burn the candle at both ends by doing fast twitch, explosive lifting, and all my agility stuff I've been doing for years.   Can't burn the candle at both ends right now.

Q.   Was the driver thing just today or this week? 
TIGER WOODS:   This week.   It's been in play all weekend.

Q.   61 two years in a row.   Are people figuring this place out? 
TIGER WOODS:   It's doable because it was soft.   Fairways aren't running like some of the holes.   No.4, for instance, you can land in the right rough and still end up in the left rough.   It's fast. 
Now it's soft, and the greens are all plugging.   You can go right after any flag you want, and you don't have to worry about it bouncing over the green. 
If you're aggressive and you hang the ball well, you're going to have a lot of 15‑footers.   Sergio evidently made them all.   That's what you can do out here. 
Rosie‑‑ I think Rosie had only 23 putts the first day.   So it's certainly doable.

Q.   Do you feel close to being able to do some of the explosive lifting you're talking about? 
TIGER WOODS:   I'm just not quite ready.   Like I said, I can't burn the candle at both ends.   I can't go out here and play golf at full speed as well as do that because I won't have a chance to recover in time for the next day. 
The whole deal‑‑ any time you lift is being able to recover by the next day.   Just not quite ready for that yet.

Q.   I hate to ask an off‑the‑golf course question, but would you like to comment about the situation with Dustin Johnson and the stories and rumors that have been out? 
TIGER WOODS:   It's sad that he's got to take a hiatus from the game of golf.   He's such an enormous talent.   I've been friends with him for years.   It's always tough to see one of your friends struggling like that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT