WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 1, 2014
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tiger, performance good? 
TIGER WOODS:   No.   I didn't hit the ball well.   I didn't putt well.   I didn't do anything well.   The only thing I did well was I fought hard.   Grinded hard.   Unfortunately, it wasn't very good today. 

Q.   What was the issue with the putting?   You said it wasn't that good. 
TIGER WOODS:   It had bad speed, bad line.   Other than that, it was all right.

Q.   What was the issue with the driver? 
TIGER WOODS:   It wasn't just the driver.   It was just everything.   I didn't hit it good in warmup.   Sometimes it's just warmup and then you go out and hit it great on the golf course.   That wasn't the case today.

Q.   [ No microphone ]?
TIGER WOODS:   I'm only 7 back.   That's plenty doable on this golf course over the weekend.   With the weather coming in tomorrow, I don't know what we're going to do, but I'll be ready.

Q.   Tiger, you mentioned the other day that you talked to some guys that had the same surgery.   Was Graham DeLaet one of them? 
TIGER WOODS:   No.   I saw his interview on TV, but I haven't talked to him about his. 
I did talk to Jason about his at the Quicken Loans, and we talked a little bit about how much better he felt after the surgery.

Q.   Those guys, though, did struggle getting back.   Graham especially, it took him a while.   He tried to play six months later, couldn't do it, needed more time.   I'm just wondering if, in the back of your mind at all, you say to yourself, hey, I'm really fortunate to be out here, and are you able to sort of keep that perspective? 
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, you know what, that's one of the things that I've had to keep reminding myself, especially during practice sessions. 
Hey, this is supposed to be my second tournament back, not my third.   Everything's going pretty good.   I've gotten a little bit better, and the good news is I'm still getting stronger. 
I've still got a long way to go as far as my strength and explosiveness compared to what I'm used to feeling, but all that's coming around.

Q.   Despite what you said about everything today being off, do you think you could have salvaged it if you just get a few putts to go in? 
TIGER WOODS:   If I would have putted like I did yesterday, which is just normal, it's a 2, 3 under round.   But I missed a bunch of putts under 15 feet, and they weren't even close, that's the problem. 
It's not like they had the go‑in look.   They just weren't very good.

Q.   Tiger, are your own expectations your own enemy in that situation?   Where most people give themselves a break and say, well, it's good that I'm out here, you just don't have that makeup.   Is that, in a way, working against you right now? 
TIGER WOODS:   No, that's the attitude you should have.   If you don't have the attitude that you're going to win, why compete?

Q.   But you do believe your game's in a place where you could go 65, 65 over the weekend?   That's something that feels possible to you? 
TIGER WOODS:   Absolutely, absolutely.   You've just got to go ahead and do it.   It's certainly gettable out there. 
Right now it's soft and we're going to get weather coming in tomorrow, and that will soften it up even more.   You're going to see a bunch of guys‑‑ the way this golf course is set up right now, a bunch of guys stacked up.   It's going to be a varied bunch going into Sunday.

Q.   Going to approach the tee differently, maybe leave the driver in the bag? 
TIGER WOODS:   I've got to get it out there because it's so soft, it's just not running.   I picked up a couple of mud balls today.   Martin had one today that was pretty good.   It went all over the place coming in. 
It's going to only be worse on Sunday if we get the weather we're supposed to have tomorrow.

Q.   When were you allowed to start hitting the driver?   Obviously, I'm guessing that's the last club you were able to work back in. 
TIGER WOODS:   About two days before I committed.

Q.   In the Quicken Loans? 
TIGER WOODS:   Yes.

Q.   Tiger, would you consider adding Greensboro to your schedule? 
TIGER WOODS:   I don't know yet.   That's one of those things where we'll just play it by ear. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT