WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
July 31, 2014
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tiger, solid day out there.   Just talk about the round. 
TIGER WOODS:   Overall, I was very pleased with today.   I hit a lot of good shots.   I dropped shots at three holes out there today, got it right back on the very next hole.   That was nice to have three good bounce‑backs. 
Overall, it was a good, solid day.

Q.   Tiger, is it in a weird way a good sign when you get mad at yourself?   I mean, in other words, you're expecting more out of yourself? 
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I got a little ticked out there today because I‑‑ I know what I can do, and I know the shots that I need to hit, and I know I need to place the ball, and I didn't do it a couple times.   And I didn't take advantage of some of the iron shots I had in there too. 
Granted, I did have two kick‑ins.   Even you and Joey could have made those two.   So it was nice to have that, but more importantly, to have‑‑ to be able to go 3 for 3 on the bounce‑backs, that was nice.

Q.   Would it be 4 and 14 maybe were shots you want to have back? 
TIGER WOODS:   That wasn't very good.   I piped a drive in there and had a wedge in.   131 to the hole, and I was just trying to hit a wedge against that wind and stuck it in the ground.   Just hit it weak right.

Q.   Does this round feel like a step in the right direction? 
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I feel like I made some progress.   As I said, this is only my seventh round back.   So it's just going to take a little time.   I'm starting to get in the flow of things. 
If you look at my iron shots into the holes today, a majority of them were pin high.   So I'm starting to get the feel back in my hands and get the ball, my trajectory under control.   I'm starting to get the shots hitting the ball the correct numbers again.

Q.   Would this be more encouraging than the first round at The Open Championship for that reason, trajectory and distance? 
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, The Open Championship is so hard to judge because you're playing bounce and playing roll.   A couple of times you're hitting 5 irons off the tees and par 4s.   It's just a different type of game over there. 
So this is a good test out here.   The wind's up, but it's soft.   You look at a lot of these scores, the guys aren't going low out here.   It's certainly gettable, but it's hard to actually get a really good one.

Q.   The tee shot on 2, was that almost better than a bounce‑back? 
TIGER WOODS:   It was perfect.   I hit a perfect angle over there.   Unfortunately, that's not the first time I've been over there.   When I hit the tee shot, I was hoping it cleared the lake. 
So I did that and had a perfect little 5 wood in there and hit a little cut up there on the green and almost hit the first putt off the green, but I made the second one.

Q.   Tiger, reaction to the Dustin Johnson news.   I'm assuming you heard it. 
TIGER WOODS:   They just told me.   All I heard was personal reasons.   I don't know if you guys know more than I do on that one.

Q.   The only other thing is he's going to miss the Ryder Cup.   What's he like as a Ryder Cup teammate?   What kind of loss is that? 
TIGER WOODS:   I'll tell you what, his power, you always want guys with that kind of power to play on any team.   I've been his partner in the Presidents Cup in Australia, and the fire power that he has, it's pretty cool to be around.   It's not too often you see the guy carry the ball 320 without even trying, and then when he steps on it, he can hit it even further.   When he gets it going, it's awfully impressive.

Q.   Did the news come as a shock to you, Tiger? 
TIGER WOODS:   It does.   We heard that he pulled out of the event earlier this week, didn't know why, but obviously now we know.

Q.   Tiger, is there anything you have to do‑‑ this is going to be the first time you've played back‑to‑back weeks.   Anything you're doing to manage that or anything that maybe you wouldn't have had to worry about in the past? 
TIGER WOODS:   I have my physio around and having him work on me, the soft tissue work that's so important to do, make sure I stay loose. 
My nutrition's got to be good.   I've got to get enough calories in because I always lose so much weight playing out here, especially in this heat.   I need to be more on top of that.

Q.   What about backing off on practice at all? 
TIGER WOODS:   You know, that's a day‑to‑day thing.   If I have‑‑ if I didn't have an earlier turnaround, I'd probably go out there and hit some balls.   6:00 now, it's already time to start eating.   And then get up early and work out and get it going.   So it's important to rest. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT