THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2014
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. (Inaudible.)TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I think it was.  I think the board said I'm in 57th, I think, in there.  So I think that was to make it on the number.Q. How important was that for you?TIGER WOODS: Well, it gives me a chance.  I'm pretty far back.  Luckily I've got two rounds to go.  And hopefully I can do something like Paul did in '99.  He made up, I think, ten in one day. Hopefully I can play well on the weekend and at least give myself a shot at going to the back nine on Sunday.Q. A lot of drivers today.  Obviously there's some reason why you felt you needed to (inaudible.)TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I didn't hit the driver very good today.  And I was trying to be a bit more aggressive.  With the wind the way it was, I could take some of the bunkers out of play and get it down where I sand wedge in the green.  Even though it was in the rough, I still had sand wedge into the green.  And Angel was doing that yesterday, and did it quite effectively with a different wind, a more difficult wind.  And I figured today would be a chance to go out there and be aggressive and do that, take some of these bunkers out of play and just didn't drive it well.Q. Could the same thing have been accomplished with a 3-wood, which you seemed to hit pretty well?TIGER WOODS: I couldn't carry the bunkers, that was the thing.  Either you lay up short or go ahead and go over the top.  And I decided to take a little bit more on today and try to clear them.Q. How surprising to learn that the ball was out on 17?TIGER WOODS: Very.  Because no one gave us any signal that it was out until it got down there.Q. How would you describe the round overall?TIGER WOODS: Not very good.  I got off to a terrible start again.  And I had some opportunities to make a few birdies along the way to get back to even par for the day, and I just never did.  I just never made anything.  I had myself in good positions to make birdies, and I just didn't do it.Q. How impressive do you think you'll have to be over the weekend?  And does that mean you'll have to drive more?TIGER WOODS: It all depends on the wind.  With this wind I felt like I could take a lot of bunkers out of play.  If I drive it well, I'm down there with a 60 degree sand wedge into a lot of these par-4s.  And I think the rough is thin enough where you can actually control it with the sand wedge.Q. What's going through your mind when you see what a guy like Rory is doing now?TIGER WOODS: Well, it's not a surprise.  He's done this before.  He's won I think both of his majors by I think eight, I believe.  Once he gets going, he can make a lot of birdies and he plays pretty aggressively to begin with.  And when he's going, he can get it going pretty good.Q. The first two holes obviously gave you trouble both days.  Is there anything about them?  Even in '06 you didn't --TIGER WOODS: Yeah.  Yesterday I was in both fairways and didn't hit either fairways.  I made double and a bogey.  So just bad starts, period.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT