WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 9, 2014
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about your thoughts on the week. 
TIGER WOODS:   It's over.   It's finally done, so‑‑ which is good. 

Q.   You looked like you were under some distress‑‑
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, all that.   It's basically started on 6, the second shot out of the bunker, my foot was out of the bunker.   That's what set it off and then it was done after that.   Just see if I could actually manage through the‑‑ keep the spasms at bay.   But anything in flexion was done, so the deeper the flexion, the worse it felt.

Q.   How did it feel standing over the putts?
TIGER WOODS:   As I said, deeper the flexion, the worse it felt.   The driver felt line.   As I said, the more flexion I had, the worse it felt. 

Q.   Do you anticipate‑‑
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, because it's‑‑ as I sit up to the ball, it's already there.   So it is what it is. 

Q.   You mentioned the other day you were going to rethink your schedule leading up to Augusta.   What are you thinking now?
TIGER WOODS:   I don't know, just let me get through this day, you know, get some treatment and we'll assess it as time goes on.

Q.   Are you more concerned now than you were last week, because maybe you've got‑‑ you might have turned a corner this week playing or‑‑
TIGER WOODS:   It's the same thing.   If it flares up, it flares up.   It's just a matter of keeping it calm, and we had a quick turnaround here from last week.   It would be nice to have a week off where I can shut it down and get some treatment. 

Q.   (Inaudible.). 
TIGER WOODS:   Well, it is back spasms, so we've done all the protocols and it's just a matter of keeping everything aligned so I don't go into that. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:   As I've said, we've done all the protocols.

Q.   Is it keeping things aligned, spine‑‑
TIGER WOODS:   Everything, exactly. 
As I said, if I feel good, I can actually make a pretty decent swing.   You saw it yesterday.   I actually can make some good swings and shoot a good score, but if I'm feeling like this, it's a little tough. 

Q.   How disappointing is that coming off a 66 and putting yourself there and looking really good yesterday? 
TIGER WOODS:   Well, it's tough.   I mean, it was just one thing that set it off, and as I say, I had a quick turnaround from last week.   Normally things like this, you shut it down for a while and then get back up and get the strength and everything developed around it. 
So it will be nice to take this week off and get everything ready for Bay Hill. 

Q.   Was there any hint before the round? 
TIGER WOODS:   It was just that shot. 

Q.   Do you think at all about just shifting that out of there to try to avoid it, or is that not even going through your mind?
TIGER WOODS:   I never even thought of that.   It was just a simple 8‑iron.   The only thing you do on a downhill lie like that is just go forward.   Should be no problem but it was a problem. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT