WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 8, 2014
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  TIGER WOODS:   I played well today.   I got off to a nice start.   Other than the 3‑putt at 4, I really hit the ball well and made some putts.   It was a nice day all around.   
   
 Q.   Golf has not been fun for you this year, other than one good round at the Honda, nice to get back in the swing of it?   
TIGER WOODS:   It was nice to get back in the tournament again.   I held it together yesterday, a long day, a long, tough day and that gave me a chance today.   I figured, hey, I'm only six back, that's definitely doable, especially with the conditions and how difficult this golf course is playing.   If I just get back to even par for the tournament, I'll be right there and I did one better.   
   
 Q.   Was it a hot day with the putter, or are you feeling comfortable on the greens?   
TIGER WOODS:   I got my speed right and I felt like I hit the ball a little better and left myself in good spots.   Yesterday, you've got to toss it out the window because speed‑wise, it's a totally different golf course.   
Now it's playing more of like a normal course.   Yesterday was certainly not what we all intended for it to be, and you know, if the golf course was softer with yesterday's conditions, yesterday's wind, I don't think you would hear the guys complaining as much.   
But being a new golf course and as firm and as fast as it was, it got difficult, and today it's so much more playable.   Scores are definitely gettable out there.   
   
 Q.   What's your philosophy and mind‑set on a Saturday, moving day, when you're behind?   Does it shift a little bit depending on how far you are?   
TIGER WOODS:   It all depends where I'm at.   I thought today if I got to even par, I'd be right there in the tournament.   Even if the leader the shot 4‑ or 5‑under par, that's certainly doable at even par.   
So I'm right there; as of right now, I'm only three back.  
   
 Q.   Do you recall any tournaments‑‑  
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I wonat Buick, shot 62‑65 on the weekend.   That was a nice weekend, '99 I think‑‑ '99 at Torrey.   
   
 Q.   Can you touch on the approach shot on 18 after a great drive?  
TIGER WOODS:   I just fatted it.   These lies are tough.   If you would have seen them the last couple days how many guys have been fatting balls, they are just a little bit naturally.   Trying to get the ball up in the air downwind like that, I just kind of hung back just a touch to get it back in the air and fatted it a little bit.  
   
 Q.   Is this your most complete roundthis year, and how is the back?     
TIGER WOODS:   I was pretty sore last night, but as I said treatment every day, and my therapists are doing a fantastic job of get me out here and playing.   
As far as most complete round, absolutely.   I hit the ball a lot better than I did at Honda last Saturday.   This was certainly a lot better round.   
   
 Q.   Making some putts is always a good sign‑‑  
TIGER WOODS:   I'm getting back into the tournament and I felt that as difficult.   But scorable as the conditions are, I felt like it might be just getting back to even par, just somehow get back to even par and it was nice to do one better than that.   
   
 Q.   18 is one of the few holes they have not touched.   How similar is it to last year?   
TIGER WOODS:   It's not similar.   290 carry, it's a big hole.   It's playing downwind right now which is nice, but if we ever happen to get like a south wind somehow on this golf course, that hole, if they don't move the tees up, there's really no room.   You're going to see guys laying up off the tees because you really can't fit it in there.  
   
 Q.   Are you able to go through the round without thinking of the back?  
TIGER WOODS:   No.   
   
 Q.   Have you changed how you play‑‑  
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I mean, I was pretty sore.   That's one of the reasons why yesterday I ate really quick and got back on that range to keep warm, keep moving and just keep hitting balls, keep moving, keep moving.   But then again, at the golf course for nine hours, it's still a long day.   
   
 Q.   Are you still driving the ball‑‑  
TIGER WOODS:   I hit it good today.   I felt like my swing is coming around, which is nice.   I just need to get healthy enough to where I can put the club in that position.   When I feel good, I can put it there.   It's nice.   
   
 Q.   How happy were you with the 73 yesterday?   
TIGER WOODS:   That was pretty good.   You know, for the‑‑ I don't know what‑‑ the day kind of blurs together but I think I had three water balls yesterday, and still posted 73, which was nice.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT