WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 7, 2014
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How hard was it?
TIGER WOODS:   That was a tough golf course today.   I don't think that we expected the golf course to be that hard that fast, but it kept getting quicker and quicker.   Some of these pip locations were just‑‑ with the wind directions, it was just impossible to get the ball close.

Q.   Did you learn anything about your game?   I know you're trying to get yourself into some form but can you do anything on a day like this? 
TIGER WOODS:   Just grind it out.   When we made the‑‑ I think when we made the turn, there were nine guys under par, and I was only two, so basically, you've just got to hang around.   You just never know.   We've all got a shot at it now.   No one is going anywhere.

Q.   There were 100 in the water, 68 players. 
TIGER WOODS:   I contributed to that number.   One of them was perfect shot right down 8, right down the middle of the fairway with a 3‑wood.   Just ran out too far. 

Q.   How is your back? 
TIGER WOODS:   I'm a little bit sore right now.   Long day.   Long day.   So be nice to get some treatment tonight and be ready for tomorrow.

Q.   Is there fear of‑‑
TIGER WOODS:   Fear of‑‑ fair?   I thought you said fear.   Is the golf course fair?   For the most part. 
I think it was just some of the pin locations were a little bit on the edgy side because of the wind directions.   You just couldn't get the ball close.   From that standpoint, it was right on the teetering point.   I think some of the guys will be probably pretty upset about some of the pins.   But if they were in better spots, I think they would have been fine. 

Q.   Can you talk us through‑‑
TIGER WOODS:   You know, it's just one of those things.   I just tried to get the ball close, and it‑‑ I can't remember the last time I made a putt from that far.   Just one of those things. 

Q.   What's the most challenging hole out here for you? 
TIGER WOODS:   1 through 18 right now.   For me, yes, I don't know about the other players, but I found all of them pretty hard out there today.

Q.   Dustin hit I think a 9‑iron into 8, hit it in the short of the green and then ran it through over the back into the water. 
TIGER WOODS:   I was close to that. 

Q.   When you have shots like that, what do you do?
TIGER WOODS:   I had 197 to the front.   I hit 7‑iron in there with a little cut and it still ran over the green.   So that's a 230‑yard 7‑iron with a slight hold.   So, you know, this golf course is just plain tough. 

Q.   Can you describe it, in a single word?
TIGER WOODS:   Tough. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT