THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 28, 2014
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   An up‑and‑down kind of round? 
TIGER WOODS:   It was a grind, there's no doubt about it.   I certainly grinded my way around this place today.   I didn't hit it very good.   Just one of those days where I fought out a number, which was good. 

Q.   I realize it's only a few rounds into the year, a couple of tournaments, but you've had some difficulty putting all 18 together.   Does there come a point for you where you get that way? 
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I would like to obviously hit it better than I have been, and especially today.   I didn't hit it very good today.   But again, as I said, I fought out a number, which is always a good thing.   Somehow would like to put together a good weekend.   We're all bunched in there. 
Anything can happen this weekend. 

Q.   What was the mind‑set beginning the round knowing you're 12 behind Rory before you even tee off? 
TIGER WOODS:   Like I said, it's so bunched.   I tried to get to four or five.   Wind is supposed to blow ten to 20 tomorrow so anything could happen this weekend, but obviously I didn't do that but even, which was enough to be playing the weekend.   Maybe I can go post a number tomorrow.   

Q.   Is there a point out there where you start thinking about just making the cut out there? 
TIGER WOODS:   I was actually over the cut line, what, after the bogey at 11.   That was a hell of a bogey.   So, you know, I had a couple loose iron shots coming in, and it was just a grind. 

Q.   You talked about some‑‑
TIGER WOODS:   That was a nice one.   I hit a terrible shot in there, second shot but I was able to lift clean and place it and I placed it on the first cut, which was nice, and that gave me a nicely cush and I was able to spin it.

Q.   How would you characterize how you feel about your overall game so far this year?
TIGER WOODS:   It's only three events, so not that many rounds into it. 

Q.   Are you searching?   Are you frustrated?   Where do you feel?   Do you feel like there's positives? 
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, there's a lot of positives in there.   Certainly a lot of positives.   Mainly I just feel hungry.

Q.   Do you take anything out of the short game?   You obviously had some good up‑and‑downs.   That was a thing that you had mentioned. 
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, absolutely, short game was spotty and now it's good again, so now just need my ball‑striking to come around.

Q.   Do you feel more comfortable on the greens?   You struggled on the grain?
TIGER WOODS:   I putted good today.   I made a lot of putts which was nice.   The putts that I hit, they had the right speed on them, so I wasn't‑‑ I had a good feel for them today, which yesterday I was off. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT