OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 1, 2014
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  TIGER WOODS:   Wasted a lot of opportunities out there today.   Today was an easy today‑‑ I only hit a couple bad shots, missed a ton of putts and I really hit it good and just through away a lot of shots.   
   
 Q.   Your calling card has been taking advantage of the par 5s‑‑ but‑‑ what do you attribute that to?  
TIGER WOODS:   Playing bad.   Not playing well.   Does that help you out?   (Laughter).  
   
 Q.   How is the progress‑‑  
TIGER WOODS:   I smoked it today.   Did a little bit of a fix last night and felt like it was good.   
Once the wind picked up, I got‑‑ it's back to how we are in Florida every day, blows every day on the East Coast and feels like home.   Feels very comfortable flighting the ball.   The only difference is that we have to play for so much give on the greens.  
   
 Q.   On 17, was it playing‑‑  
TIGER WOODS:   If I can get there, I'm going.   And depends on the pin, which side you're going to miss it on, and yesterday unfortunately I hit the cart path.   Today I wanted to make sure‑‑ easy pitch and hit a terrible chip.   
   
 Q.   You said you worked on it last night, what did you figure out?   
TIGER WOODS:   My grip got a little off, something very simple, very easy fix.   I went out there today and wrote really well.   
   
 Q.   Did Sean notice that or did you just figure that out on your own?   
TIGER WOODS:   It's one of my old habits, getting back into the old pattern.   Just got to make sure I stay away from it because it's not good.  
   
 Q.   How much do you enjoy the young kid‑‑ how impressed were you with the young kid in the clinic and how much do you enjoy interacting with people like that?  
TIGER WOODS:   I think that's what's common.   These kids are taking up golf at a very early age and I've seen more of that over in China than anywhere else in the world, they are taking it seriously where they have all these academies and the government subsidizes these programs.   It went from, some of these places I visited, a hundred kids to now thousands upon thousands of kids.   With what the Chus are doing on Hainan Island, devoting an entire golf course to juniors, that's what's coming.   That example out there yesterday is what's going to happen.   And wait till you get kids who are big and athletic in the sport.   
   
 Q.   Do you take some responsibility for this?  
TIGER WOODS:   I wouldn't say that.   I would have to say more on the athletic side and training.   Most golfers have been fat and out of shape, and they don't treat it as a sport.   I grew up running track and cross‑country and playing baseball, and if you didn't train, you got your butt kicked.   
That's a big difference, growing up with other sporting backgrounds where you have to train in order to compete and win.   I just took the same philosophy and applied it to golf and had a pretty good career so far.     
   
 Q.   You talked about the off‑season about getting your body in shape than your game.   Are you happy with where that's at?   Is it okay to ease into the season?  
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I'm pleased because it's progressing, slowly.   Unfortunately I'd like to have it come a little quicker but I'm going to have some up‑and‑downs.   I'm going to have some bumps in the roads.   The only thing I don't like is the way I chip the ball out of the ryegrass.   I've been chipping on bermuda and at home, and that's all we have down there.   We don't overseed it at medalist, so everything's been bermuda, I come over here and same thing at Torrey, my feels are off.   So that's something I'm going to have to try and work on and probably have to do a little more short game practice, but the Florida Swing is coming up soon and we're going to be playing on bermuda again.   
I think probably the only tournament that's heavily overseeded with rye would be either Honda or Bay Hill, and after that, we're pretty much in‑‑ no rough at Augusta, and Doral, traditionally has always been bermuda.   I don't know what Donald's done down there, so we'll see.   It could be something really weird, I don't know.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT