TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN BY THE MINISTRY OF CULTURE AND TOURISM
November 10, 2013
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Good week? 
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, it wasn't bad.   I said 20‑plus was going to win this week and kind of ended up being that way. 

Q.   Do you feel like you spotted those guys a few too many shots early? 
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I mean, there's so many guys so low when we had the rain, or the delay, and called to darkness and guys were 7‑under through 12, 13, 14, and I was only 2‑under par. 
So I didn't get anything going that day, and unfortunately I shot some good rounds coming in after that, but on a golf course like this where you have to make so many birdies, just didn't make enough. 

Q.   Enjoy coming here?
TIGER WOODS:   I did.   Last year I had a great time when I came to Turkey.   Obviously it's a totally different format, but this was a fun tournament.   It was different in the fact that you had to make so many birdies. 
Just had to be so aggressive all the time, and reflects on how many guys maids runs of four, five holes in a row, that are 4‑,   5‑, 6‑under par, had a lot of those runs out there from a lot of players. 

Q.   What will you do before your tournament?
TIGER WOODS:   Hang up the clubs for a little bit, it's going to be nice.

Q.   Besides winning, is there anything you got out of the week swing‑wise?
TIGER WOODS:   No, I'm just looking forward to another great week.   We have another great field.   So looking forward to getting there and obviously playing and competing. 

Q.   Do you feel like you knocked off some of the rust that you talked about at the beginning of the week? 
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I got better as the week went on.   Yesterday I didn't quite hit it that great on the back nine but overall it was pretty good.

Q.   Going to be back next year?
TIGER WOODS:   I don't know. 

Q.   If you look at where your game is now to when you were here last year, where would you rate it? 
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I've got, what, five more wins since then, so I think it's gotten a little bit better. 

Q.   Ramp up expectations for next year, given where you are and the state of your game? 
TIGER WOODS:   I think just the way I played this year as a whole.   You know, a couple years ago, there were a lot of guys, so many of you guys here that were saying I could never win again.   Got eight wins since then, so it's been good and I'm very happy with the progress I've made.   Won on some venues that were very tough this year, and obviously being part of The Presidents Cup with Freddie and winning that point, too, was another special moment. 

Q.   Looking forward to the Majors next year? 
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, next year is a really good one, and on top of that, Pinehurst, I've had a third and second and hopefully it will keep improving like it has.   I'm looking forward to the four venues.   I like them and obviously I've played well on them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT