BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 16, 2013
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I know you're a little frustrated with your putting not just today but really for the entire week.   I don't know if you got the breaks on these greens down correctly.   
TIGER WOODS:   Not even close.   I think I had somewhere in the neighborhood of either five to seven three‑putts this week.   It was not a very good putting week.   You know, it's just one of those weeks where I just didn't have it.  
   
 Q.   But I thought your ball‑striking was pretty solid.   You certainly gave yourself a chance if you'd just putt the way you normally do.   
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, quit eliminating the simple mistakes on the greens, I would have been all right.   I would have been in there with a better chance.   But I'm in good shape going into next week.  
   
 Q.   And the 1st hole had your number all week, even discounting the penalty.   
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I think I played it 5‑over or something like that.   That's a lot of shots.  
   
 Q.   But you are the No.1 seed in the FedExCup Playoffs headed to East Lake.   
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, well, I'm in a position just like the other four guys in the top 5.   We control our destiny and go out there hopefully next week and win it.   
   
 Q.   Do you think putting was the reason it kept you from being in contention this week?  
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, absolutely.   As I was saying over there, I think I had either five or seven three‑putts this week.   That's a lot.   I just didn't have it.  
   
 Q.   Was it something fundamentally?  
TIGER WOODS:   Just one of those weeks.   It happens a lot.   My pace wasn't very good this week.   Next week we're on a new golf course and new tournament.  
   
 Q.   That you've been successful at.   Do you know the difference or do you see the value in being 1 versus 2 going into next week?  
TIGER WOODS:   All you need to be is top 5.   Top 5 you control your destiny.   You win the tournament, you win it outright.   Sneds proved that last year.   With the double reset, it's all about positioning, and top five guys, as I said, we control our own destiny.  
   
 Q.   The impressions of this week at Conway Farms; do you think this course deserves another shot, another tournament?  
TIGER WOODS:   I'm sure it will come back.   We got some interesting weather conditions from 100 to 50, so it definitely held up.   The greens, if we didn't get any rain, these greens were starting to get really, really tough, and it was tough to get the ball close.   But with it soft like it was for guys today, we thought we were going to get more mud balls.   I only got a couple.   Charl got a really bad one there at 3.   It's just one of those things where if you don't get any mud balls out there, you can be really aggressive going into those greens, and they're not that fast, so you can make some putts.  
   
 Q.   Chicago is a great golf town; it deserves a tournament, don't you think?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, we've had major championships here, we've had Ryder Cups, and obviously the BMW event even going back to Cog Hill and all those Western Opens.   Great sporting town to begin with, and they've all supported their sports here, and they've come out and supported golf, as well.   
   
 Q.   Did your back act up today?  
TIGER WOODS:   It was a little bit tight today.   It's a little bit cooler, and certainly a little bit tight, but it won't be like that next week.   
   
 Q.   You started out today I'm sure thinking you could make a run, try to win the tournament, four back.   How disappointing is it to not really ever get up there?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I thought I needed to shoot at least 3‑, 4‑under par on the front nine and at least give myself a chance going into the back nine where if I put a good back nine together I might be in there, but I wasn't anywhere near it.   
The whole idea was to try and shoot something even par or under par today after my start, and I somewhat accomplished that.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned earlier just being in the top 5 is what matters next week.   It's probably of little consolation that you did move to No.1.   In a way it doesn't really matter unless you win next week.   
TIGER WOODS:   Exactly.   It's all the new system.   We're jockeying for position to be in the top 5, and I was able to accomplish that, so as I said, I'm one of the four other guys that can control our destiny next week with a win.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT