BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2013
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   14 and 15 hurt you a little bit?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, you know, Joey and I both misread that putt there at 14.   Thought it was going to go to the right because Serge's putt coming up the hill went left, so I thought my putt was going to go right.   My putt ended up going left, and missing that one.
And then I had 3‑wood on 15.   I had to try to hit some kind of soft cut up there.   It was 277 front.   I was caught between 3‑wood and 5‑wood and tried to hit a little soft cut 3‑wood and just hit a pull straight ball right in the water. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:   You know, I made a big bomb there at 7, which was nice, and then I got hot from there.   I birdied six out of seven on that little stretch there.   That was nice even though at 9 I had a little flip 60‑degree sand wedge in there and missed the green and made par.   But I had a nice little run to at least get myself in there where I have a chance tomorrow.

Q.   We didn't get a chance to chat with you yesterday after your round.   How would you best describe what happened there beside 1 green? 
TIGER WOODS:   Beside 1 green, I thought it was fine.   Afterwards, frustrated. 

Q.   Do you feel like the two‑shot penalty was warranted? 
TIGER WOODS:   You know, it's one of those things where I thought the ball oscillated, and I thought that was it.   I played the shot, played the round, and then Slugger and Tyler in there, they replayed it and gave me two.

Q.   In a situation like that, how would you gauge your frustration level? 
TIGER WOODS:   I was pretty hot because I felt like, as I said, nothing happened.   I felt like the ball oscillated and that was it.   I played the rest of the round grinding my tail off to get myself back in the tournament and then go from 5 to 7 behind, that was tough.

Q.   Was there a sense of, why is this happening to me again in 2013? 
TIGER WOODS:   Just kind of the way it's been.   I fought back today, which was not easy to do.   Today was a tough round, but I fought and got myself back within striking distance.

Q.   I was going to say, how hard is it to concentrate when something like that happens the following day? 
TIGER WOODS:   It's hard.   You know, there were a lot of thoughts going on last night, but the sun comes up in the east, and we start a new day.

Q.   After seeing the video did you think that you deserved a two‑shot penalty after seeing the video?
TIGER WOODS:   After seeing the video I thought the ball just oscillated, and I thought that was it.   I thought that was the end of story.   But they saw otherwise.

Q.   Is this one tougher to take than the penalty at Augusta?   You seem to have moved on from that one a little bit easier.   This one seemed to linger. 
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, the one at Augusta after going through it on Saturday morning, yeah, I did take the wrong drop.   But yesterday I didn't feel like I did anything, and as I said, I described it in there and I said, I moved the pine cone right behind my ball.   I feel like the ball oscillated, and I just left it.   That's not‑‑ evidently it wasn't enough.

Q.   And it didn't occur to you that that was going to be an issue?
TIGER WOODS:   No, not at all.   We all have been in the trees before, and things can move and do move, and I felt like I tested it and felt like it just oscillated left and stayed in the same position, but evidently it didn't.

Q.   Was it a pine cone or a twig? 
TIGER WOODS:   The pine cone was behind my ball, but there was a twig in front.

Q.   It looked like on the video that it dipped down, but I didn't see it dip back up. 
TIGER WOODS:   As I said, from my vantage point, I thought it just oscillated and that was it. 

Q.   On the video you didn't see any difference?
TIGER WOODS:   They replayed it again and again and again, and I felt the same way.

Q.   It's kind of weird when Slugger would say one thing and you would say another, and doesn't it usually fall on the side of the player?
TIGER WOODS:   I don't know, but I went from five back to seven back real quick.

Q.   Motivationally did that change you coming in here today?
TIGER WOODS:   No, today was going to be hard, just like Saturday at Augusta was hard.   When situations like that happen, I had to fight, and I fought my tail off today, and I'm very proud of that, and I got myself back in the tournament.

Q.   Did you watch it in the trailer before you turned in your card, and then how many times did you watch it at home last night?
TIGER WOODS:   I never watched it at home.

Q.   How much did you argue with them about it?   I mean, did you feel that you didn't get a fair argument with them inside?
TIGER WOODS:   No, we had a very good discussion.   I'll end it at that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT