DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2013
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  TIGER WOODS:   I didn't really hit that bad.   I certainly had some looks.   And just missed a few putts.

Q.   You missed a putt at the first, does that weigh on the rest of the round?
TIGER WOODS:   Well, that was a noncommitment.   I saw it behind the hole, and it went right.   I saw it behind the ball and it went left.   It was dead straight and I pulled it.

Q.   I thought it really tested your patience.   You had a couple of bad breaks with drives on 6 and 7.   But come back and birdied the 7th hole to keep the round going, and gave yourself a lot of looks and I thought good putts?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I just lost my patience out there.   I gave myself some good looks, and just didn't make them.   Hopefully tomorrow they will go in.

Q.   Like the putt on 12?
TIGER WOODS:   That was a good one, especially with that much break.   And you saw Scotty's putt coming the other way and it snapped at the end.   I gave it a little more because of that.

Q.   When I see you hit like this and putt like this and don't shoot an exotic number, I just think there may be a number deeper than 65 out here in the last two rounds for you?
TIGER WOODS:   There's going to have to be to get back into this thing.   There's so many guys up there that are basically 9‑under par or better.   There's a ton of guys up there.   It's going to take a couple of low rounds. 

Q.   How do you compare the two days?
TIGER WOODS:   I hit it better today.   I had a few looks.   I had a couple of weird bounces out there, but overall it was a good enough day.

Q.   It's only one shot and it's only the second round, but how big was that putt at the last?
TIGER WOODS:   It was nice to get.   I had a terrible tee shot up there and laid up to a good number, couldn't blast that flier.   I was hoping to skip it up there and make my work out.   Basically the only putt I made all day so it was kind of nice.

Q.   We've seen some low numbers.   
Some people love to play in overcast conditions like this.   It was always perfect scoring.   Do you expect to see low scores the next couple of days?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, if it's soft like this.   Guys will keep going low.   There's no fear about the ball bouncing.   And if that's the case, with it being this warm, you can have short irons in your hands most of the day.   If that's the case, these guys are going to shoot low.

Q.   Mickelson had a couple of crazy shots there, between 9 and 13.   And an amazing shot up and down at 11.   You and Adam were joking with him as you walked off the 12th tee.   What was that conversation like.   Phil was just alluding to it?
TIGER WOODS:   He wasn't playing well through that little stretch there.   He hit a lot of bad shots.   He had a two‑way miss going.   The shot that he hit off‑‑ on 11, Bones said it wasn't that long.   He took a pretty good putt at it and pulled it off.   That's what he does.   And it was pretty impressive to see the up‑and‑downs he made throughout that stretch, and holed a few putts, kept his round together.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:   That's the only putt I made all day.   I hit it decent today, and gave myself a few looks, missed a few.   Certainly could have gone lower than I did. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:   You know, I had a hard time hitting the putts hard enough.   They were a little slower this afternoon, obviously with the mist coming in, it definitely slowed it up.   But still, I just didn't hit them hard enough.   And they were snagging at the grain a little bit at the end.   And a couple of putts I thought I poured, but they got snagged at the end.

Q.   How do you feel about your position heading into tomorrow?
TIGER WOODS:   I'm going to have to go low.   It is what it is.   There's so many guys up there.   This golf course is soft.   It's gettable.   And I know they tried to put the pins in more difficult spots.   But when it's warm like this, the ball is flying.   We're hitting 3‑woods 300 plus yards.   It's going to play shot.   If that's the case with soft greens, you can get after this golf course.

Q.   Any physical issues?
TIGER WOODS:   Other than being hungry, no.

Q.   Were you able to stay for the second half of the Patriots game the other night?
TIGER WOODS:   No, I just stayed for the first quarter.

Q.   You missed Tebow?
TIGER WOODS:   I saw it on TV. 

Q.   Did you hear this he did not make the team?
TIGER WOODS:   No. 

Q.   He didn't make the team. 
TIGER WOODS:   Oh, that's‑‑ obviously Bob and, I'm sure, Bill's decision.

Q.   Can you tell us what you told Phil‑‑
TIGER WOODS:   It was pretty impressive, because Bones was telling us that it wasn't that great a lie.   It was a decent lie, but to go ahead and try to play that shot with that much speed, and didn't have a whole lot of room up there, obviously you could see from the angle.   But he pulled it off.
And then he was struggling through that little stretch there.   But he held the round together, and had a nice finish at the end. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT