DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 30, 2013
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What Phil did today was pretty impressive. 
TIGER WOODS:   You can shoot a good number.   The greens are soft.   There's no worry about the ball going on the greens.   Even though you have sometimes 5‑ and 6‑irons on the greens, you're not afraid of it.

Q.   You had a little wind that came up, I thought maybe the wind got you on 8?
TIGER WOODS:   I hit that one good, too.   Took a little something off that 7‑iron.   The boys took a little read off me and both hit 8.

Q.   Sometimes the back was a little bit cranky last week.   I thought your tempo was beautiful today?
TIGER WOODS:   It was decent today.   I didn't hit it as well as I'd like to.   But overall‑‑ it could be a little better, for sure.

Q.   It's still nice.   A lot of golf ahead. 
TIGER WOODS:   Thanks.

Q.   Talk about your round. 
TIGER WOODS:   I don't think it was as good as I wanted to today.   The golf course was beautiful today.   I shot a decent number.

Q.   Yesterday when you finished a little better than you expected, I guess a lot of fans want to know how you're holding up?
TIGER WOODS:   I feel good. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I was only a couple under par after 7.   Not a lot going on with me.   I didn't give myself a lot of looks.   But Phil was getting everything.   I was hitting it good but wasn't making a lot of putts.

Q.   The greens seemed to be receptive.   How much were you expecting the course to change as the days progress?
TIGER WOODS:   It should dry out a little bit.   We got a little misty rain yesterday.   The fairways were still giving up a little bit.   They were rolling.   They were perfectly smooth this morning.   There's not a shot that you'd be afraid of.   Some of the back pins you needed to be a little more cautious.

Q.   Talk about your round. 
TIGER WOODS:   Today was a decent day.   I didn't hit the ball as well as I'd like to but I scored all right.   Missed a few opportunities out there.   The golf course is really receptive and certainly gettable.   There are a lot of good scores out there, and most of the guys are under par today.   A day in which, until the wind came up, that you could do some damage out there. 

Q.   Talk about your back. 
TIGER WOODS:   The back is fine, all good. 

Q.   Did it bother you at all today?
TIGER WOODS:   No.   It helped having that extra day off.   It made a difference.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:   Still got to play your game.   There's still 72 holes.   This is just one day.   It was a hot nine holes, 7‑under through nine, but you still have 63 more to go.   I just try to plod along.   If I could get to 5‑under par, that would be a good number.   And I gave myself a couple of looks on that back nine.   That would have been about the number. 

Q.   Are you going to practice?
TIGER WOODS:   Going right now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT