MASTERS TOURNAMENT
November 14, 2020
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Tiger, you said as the course continues to firm up, it will benefit past champions. What did you see out there today and how can that benefit you tomorrow? 
TIGER WOODS: Well, it got a little bit faster, yes. But the putts just still aren't quite breaking. Some of the downhill putts are starting to move a little bit, but the uphill putts are‑‑ we normally say that everything breaks towards Rae's Creek, and the greens can get a little touch grainy. That's definitely been the case this week, just because they've been a little bit longer. 
But today they started to get a little more run‑out to them, started playing a little bit more break. A couple putts today, both Billy and Rickie and I, we all got fooled just a touch. 

Q. This week marks the 25th anniversary of your first start here at the Masters. If you could tell younger Tiger, listen, Buddy, in 2020 you're going to be the reigning champion, you're going to have five green jackets, the perspective then versus the perspective now, what is it? 
TIGER WOODS: Well, when I first played it, I thought this was one of the shortest and most open golf courses that I thought there was. It was just a driver and a wedge everywhere. There really wasn't a bunker off the tee that was in play. The first time I played here, I drove a 3‑wood into the bunker on 10. Obviously the tees have been all lengthened and it's a very different golf course. The fairways were all cut downgrain at the time. 
Yeah, some of the holes were‑‑ I never really hit anything more than probably, what, to a par‑4, an 8‑iron? And so never would I have dreamt that this golf course would have been changed this much, would have been lengthened this much and have been playing this much longer than it was then. 

Q. (On how his back is feeling.) 
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, it's a long progression. These are long days. I had my day off yesterday, which was nice. Today was not the case. We've been at it for quite some time. Yeah, it's just part of the deal. If you have long days like this, I'm going to get a little bit sore, which I definitely am. 

Q. You still hit a bunch of good shots. Does it affect your golf a lot, or is it just really picking stuff up and kind of‑‑ 
TIGER WOODS: Well, I can walk all day. The hard part is bending and twisting. I think that's part of the game, though, and so that's always been the challenge with my back issues and I guess will always continue to be. 

Q. Have you thought about how emotional tomorrow might be for you? 
TIGER WOODS: I have not. Tuesday was a long, tough day for me, but I have not thought about tomorrow yet. I was focused on trying to get myself in contention going into tomorrow. Just found out that the tee times are going to be a bit early tomorrow and going off two tees, so I didn't know what that bracket was going to be. I don't know exactly what position I'm in. I think it's 20th or 25th by now. 
I certainly will be part of the early part of the split and get after it tomorrow. We'll see how emotional it'll be after tomorrow's round. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT