PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2013
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   The putting on the back nine, how frustrating was that?
TIGER WOODS:   I made my share and missed my share.   Just the way it goes.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS:   Obviously I'm going to have to put together a really good weekend.   This golf course is pretty soft.   It's definitely gettable.   Got to hit the ball in play and keep the ball near the hole so I can be aggressive with my putts.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS:   Say again.

Q.   Would you describe your feeling as disappointed? 
TIGER WOODS:   Just the finish I had obviously, and driving the green at 14 and 3‑putting there.   And then 3‑putting at 16, missed a few today.

Q.   In the end you felt like you didn't give yourself enough chances?
TIGER WOODS:   No, I didn't hit it anywhere near as good as I did yesterday.   Consequently, I didn't have that many looks.   When I did, I missed my share, too.

Q.   Can you pinpoint anything specifically from last week to this week?
TIGER WOODS:   Just the way it goes.   Obviously I need to hit it better than I have, obviously keep the ball below the hole so I can be aggressive with the putts.

Q.   Do you feel there is still something in you now that you can do that tomorrow and get yourself back for Sunday?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I'm going to have to.   It's going to be‑‑ I'm going to have do my job and shoot a good round.   But also, then again, I'm so far back that if the leaders go ahead and run off with it and shoot a low one tomorrow, I'm going to be pretty far behind. 
I have got to do my job tomorrow and go out there and post something in the mid to low 60s, like some of the guys did today.   Some of the guys were 7‑under through 14, 7‑under through 14.   It definitely can be done.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS:   I mean, just about any golf course, I don't care what it is, if it's soft guys are going to shoot good numbers. 
It's definitely gettable today.   It's hot, the ball is flying and it's soft.   You can be really aggressive down there.   And if you put the ball in the right spots, the golf course certainly could be had today.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT