WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 2, 2013
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   With the things that you have accomplished in your career already, do things like a 59 or a course record, obviously you want to play the best you can each round, but do those things matter to you? 
TIGER WOODS:   Well, the thing is I've shot 59 before, so it wasn't a‑‑ I was only 9‑under par, so it's not a feeling that I'm uncomfortable with. 
When I shot 59, I was 13 deep at the time, so that's well off where I was today.   Nine, I've been there many times, and I've been 10 and 11 before, too.   I had a long way to go, so I had, what, five holes to go, still a lot of golf to be played, and anything could have happened.   It could have gone either way.   I made some nice pars there. 

Q.   Was the one at 6 maybe the most important?
TIGER WOODS:   Absolutely, absolutely.   I got off to a great start, and then to miss three greens in a row and then to basically make an up‑and‑down from a 6‑iron‑‑ it was a 6‑iron in there.   I had 189 into the wind and hit a little 6‑iron in there, and it was a nice putt to make.
Then the very next hole I stuff it in there and make birdie.   Things like that, that's momentum.   That's what turns rounds in the right direction or keeps them in the right direction.   So those are very important. 
Then I made a big par putt at 14, just came off making, what was it, three, four birdies in a row, whatever it was, and then to make that putt, which was huge. 

Q.   Talk about 18. 
TIGER WOODS:   18, obviously hit the driver to the right.   I didn't have much of a lie.   It was sitting into the grain.   If I had a downgrain lie, I could have easily gotten that ball onto the green, but it was sitting into the grain and I can't get the ball airborne from there.   And our plan was to put the ball on the cart path or the right gallery or even the grandstand over to the right, hospitality over there, and take a drop or whatever it is, as long as I'm pitching back up the hill.   Unfortunately I didn't even hit it that far.   It came out too lot, caught the tree and came back down, got a drop.   And I had 74 to the front edge at the flag, and I figured, you know, just if I leave it short, it's an easy pitch, I can make the chip.   If it comes out, the worst thing that's going to happen is maybe just go over the back. 
I hit it good, and it happened to skip through the rough.   I didn't think it was going to skip like that, but it happened to get through.   The putt wasn't that fast.   With the rain, the rain slowed them up, so that putt wasn't a putt I was afraid of running six, eight feet past.   It just didn't have that speed anywhere like it did earlier in the day.

Q.   When you have a round going like that, what's it like when you can make a putt like that to save a par at the end and you raised the putter, obviously felt pretty good about it?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, those are big putts.   I think making big par putts are bigger than making birdies.   It keeps‑‑ I don't know what it is, but it's that feeling of never dropping a shot.   I didn't drop any shots today, and I kept the card clean.   Those are nice feelings when you're able to do that, when you're able to keep a card clean like that with no bogeys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT