WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 1, 2013
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How did you feel out there?  
TIGER WOODS:   I felt pretty good today.   It was a little blustery today.   Wind was up, greens were soft.   But at least the ball was flying.   It was warm, ball was going, and even though it was a little more wet because of the rain, with it being this warm, the ball is still traveling.   We got it out there pretty good.  
   
 Q.   No danger of your ball on 9 going up on the roof from where you were?  
TIGER WOODS:   No, I had‑‑ if I hit that from the middle of a fairway onto a roof, you should take my time off my bag.   The time I hit it, I caught a heater out of the rough.   Hey, I count it as a fairway hit.   
   
 Q.   Your iron play was pretty good again today.   Is that just a continuation of what you've been doing recently?  
TIGER WOODS:   I feel very good about what I'm doing with basically my whole swing.   I hit a lot of good shots.   I had a really good feel for the distance today, and Joey and I really read the wind right today.   It was good.   We did a lot of good feel.   We changed a few shots out there, and we both had a really good handle on what we were doing feel‑wise with the wind.  
   
 Q.   Do you see shots out there that you might see next week or are you not worried about that yet?  
TIGER WOODS:   No, not really.   It's a similar golf course in the fact that obviously it's just straight in front of you.   Oak Hill is just like this place but a little bit more difficult.   You don't quite have the slopes and undulations that we're going to face next week here.   There's some pretty severe slopes that we're going to have to deal with at Oak Hill and a couple putts out there that are a little bit on the quick side if you get in the wrong spot, but nothing like what we're going to face next week.  
   
 Q.   How many drivers did you hit today and how did you hit it?  
TIGER WOODS:   Actually I hit quite a few drivers today.   I don't know what the number is, but I hit quite a few.   I hit most of the fairways with it, including the 9th.   
   
 Q.   How would you assess your putting today?  
TIGER WOODS:   I thought I putted well.   I had a good speed to it.   I did a lot of‑‑ did some good work last night, had a really good handle on the feel.   Obviously it changed overnight with the rain and spent a little more time, about an extra five minutes hitting some lag putts with a little moisture on it to see what it would do.   Downhill putts were quick, but uphill putts were much slower than yesterday.  
   
 Q.   Is there more of a comfort level when you come to a course where you've won before like Torrey or Bay Hill?  
TIGER WOODS:   It's one of those things where I was explaining to you guys yesterday that no matter how I'm playing coming in here, I've played terrible coming in here and I've played really well coming in.   And for some reason this golf course, I just see it.   It's just one of those venues.   
No, luckily over the years I've taken advantage of it.   I have played well and I've scored well, and I've won my share of tournaments here.  
   
 Q.   How much tougher will this get if there's no rain, the course?  
TIGER WOODS:   It'll get quicker, there's no doubt.   The greens are still fast, but they're holding, and we're hitting 5‑irons in and they're only rolling a couple feet.   So that makes it a big difference.   If the ball is not rolling out in the fairway, so be it, because you know the greens are going to be soft and we can be pretty aggressive.   You look at some of the scores out here, I think top 10 is going to be 3‑under par.   
The guys are‑‑ if you drive the ball in the fairway you can be very aggressive going into these flags, and know it's not going to go anywhere.  
   
 Q.   As much as you do like the course, there were a couple of years where you had some tough weeks here in recent years.   Can you speak to the fact that just because you like it doesn't mean you're going to play well?   You do have to bring your game, and where is it now compared to some of those tougher times?   
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, well, unfortunately some of those times were when I was changing my swing and I was going through that change.   It's one of those things where you've still got to play well, but I still felt comfortable with what I was seeing out there even though I didn't play well.   It's one of those‑‑ it's hard to explain, but I just feel comfortable seeing the shots here.   Still have to execute, obviously, and over the course of my career here, I've done all right at doing that.   
   
 Q.   What happened on 9?   A lot of us didn't see the tee shot on 9.   
TIGER WOODS:   You know, it was a high, hammered snap hook.   I hit all of it.   It was nice.   It was beautiful.   Right in the middle of the fairway.   (Smiling).   
   
 Q.   The PGA of America's initiative next week where the fans are going to pick a hole on the last day of the par‑3, I just want to get your thoughts on does that in any way cheapen the event or make the event more interesting or‑‑  
TIGER WOODS:   No, I think it makes it more interesting.   I thought if they were going to do it, might as well do it all four days so they can move it around a little bit.   I think it would have been better served if you did it on all four days.   I think it would be more exciting for the fans to be a part of it.   But one day, final day, it's still exciting.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT