WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
July 31, 2013
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  TIGER WOODS:   I haven't hit any drivers yet.   I haven't got to the range yet. 

Q.   Could you just talk about where you are with your game and how much did you work on your game or‑‑
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I didn't do much until the end of the week, just was with the kids, and we were just having a great time.   We were down in the Bahamas, and I got away from the game and just had a whole bunch of fun with them. 

Q.   Was there any negativity or feeling like an opportunity lost at the Open or did you move on from it and‑‑
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, absolutely, it's an opportunity.   I had it; I had a chance to win and didn't get quite it done on Sunday.   There were so many positives to the week, how well I hit it and how well I played. 
Looking back on it, as I was saying on Sunday night with you guys, the only difference is I just didn't get the feel of those greens the last few days, and I didn't make the adjustments.   That's my fault for not making the adjustments.   You've got to make the adjustments and I didn't do it, and consequently I didn't win the tournament.

Q.   How are you feeling physically?
TIGER WOODS:   Physically I'm good.   I don't have as much energy as Sam and Charlie, but I feel pretty good. 

Q.   What were your thoughts about Oak Hill the last couple days? 
TIGER WOODS:   The greens are spotty, and it'll be interesting to see what they do because they were running just under 9 on the stimp.   They don't have much thatch to them, so it'll be interesting to see what they do for the tournament and how much they're able to speed them up with kind of a lack of grass.

Q.   Are there any similarities between this course and that course that you can take as prep for next week?
TIGER WOODS:   Well, it is very similar, straightforward, right in front of you.   This golf course, I don't think, is as hard or as difficult as Oak Hill, especially with the green complexes.   The green complexes are a little bit more severe at Oak Hill.   But overall it's old‑school golf.   It's just right in front of you, no hidden tricks out there, and just got to go out there and really hit the ball well.

Q.   Do you feel like maybe this can get you on a roll going into the PGA?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, you know, I've had times where I haven't played well at all coming into this event and for some reason it turns it around.   And sometimes I've played great and it's continued.   This is one of those courses where, for me, over the years, I just have felt very comfortable on, and I think my record has been pretty good since I've turned pro here. 

Q.   Some guys are coming in here, like Brandt Snedeker, who have played three or four straight.   Do you think there's an advantage or disadvantage to either? 
TIGER WOODS:   I think a break is important, especially with two major‑‑ two big tournaments with a major on as the second one, and then we've got a week off, and then we basically play, at least Americans and some of the internationals are playing five out of the last six after that, with the Presidents Cup on the back end. 
It's a lot of golf at the end of the year, and that's one of the reasons why some of the guys don't play as much in the summer is to save your body and mind for this stretch, because it's a long haul from here through the Presidents Cup. 

Q.   Curious your thoughts on what's going on with Inbee Park?
TIGER WOODS:   It's pretty incredible, pretty incredible, to win the first three and the way she did it, executing, and it seemed like she just is making everything.   It's good to see.   It's really neat to see someone out there and doing something that no one has ever done, so that's pretty cool. 

Q.   With next week tee to green, how is the golf set up?   Ten years ago it was one of your best majors, but you were going through changes at that time.   Is it different than then? 
TIGER WOODS:   There were a couple new greens, a couple new tees, added more length.   But I think more so with a couple green complexes that they've changed.   It'll be interesting to see. 
Also the 8th green is dead in the front right because obviously they had a little accident with a tree. 
I remember all of the holes, but I just didn't remember it playing as long as it did when we played it yesterday.   For some reason it always‑‑ well, granted it always plays long when you don't have the adrenaline flowing and it's not a tournament situation.   But I was‑‑ I had my book from the last time I played, and most of the times where I hit 2‑iron I was hitting 5‑wood, and 3‑wood is still 3‑wood and driver is still driver.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:   Absolutely, absolutely.   He's done it better than anyone else has for as long as you can possibly do it.   I mean, he's won at all levels, and he's influenced this game not just here in the United States but all around the world, especially with his golf course design.   I don't know what his total is now.   His own golf courses, I think he's over 200, and his back room has done, I think, over 400 or 500 courses.   What he's meant to the game of golf and the generations he's influenced, it's pretty incredible. 

Q.   Did you try to see him today?
TIGER WOODS:   Is he here? 

Q.   He's coming later. 
TIGER WOODS:   If I have time, it would be great.   I need to work on my game, too. 

Q.   Is there any part of your game that you feel like has been the key to your seven victories here?
TIGER WOODS:   I've done it all different ways, that's the thing.   Some years I've striped it and have really played well, and other years I've hit it all over the lot and had to be creative, and I've chipped and putted and holed out.   It's been such a mixed bag, and I think that's what happens when you win that many times.   You can't always do it the same way. 
You know, I feel comfortable on this golf course, and I think that's the key.   I've played it when it's been baked out and fast and is hard and other times when it's soft and slow.   And the guys are saying it's a little bit softer right now, but the greens are up to speed.

Q.   You mentioned earlier about making the adjustments to green speeds at major championships.   How difficult is that?
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I think it's hard to make the adjustment the other way.   Normally, as the tournament progresses, the golf course is supposed to get faster and harder.   We played it reversed, so that's not normally the case, unless you get a deluge of rain and a front comes through, but we didn't have that.   It was just nothing but handwatering.   That was a bit of a situation I don't think I can honestly remember ever facing where the golf course was that fast on a Thursday and slowed down by Sunday with no Mother Nature involved.   So that was definitely different. 

Q.   The greens next week, do you think they're slow because they're afraid they're going to lose them?
TIGER WOODS:   I think they are.   I think they are.   They just don't have a lot of grass on them, so not going to push them now and save them for tournament week.   And I'm sure by Monday they'll get them up to speed.   They're looking to get them at around 12 and 13, but if you do that now with‑‑ you don't want to do it for two weeks with how they are right now, just save them for the week of the tournament. 
Most of the guys are here anyways, here playing.   So I think that's a wise decision. 

Q.   Talk about playing with Hideki Matsuyama. 
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, it's going to be fun.   I've never played with him.   I've seen him out here hitting balls, and I just did a little interview with Rory over here, and he played with him the first two days at the Open Championship.   He says he hits it great, hits it long, and he's the next‑‑ that next generation of young kids coming up.   He's 21.   Rory is an old guy now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT