THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2013
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How did you find it out there today?
TIGER WOODS:  It was difficult out there today.  The wind
obviously is a completely different direction than it was
yesterday.  On top of that we've had quite a bit of moisture on
the greens overnight.  We actually made a couple of ball marks
early.
It obviously changed a lot as we were playing along.  Our
last four holes -- our last five holes, it got awfully quick.  But
one thing that G and I were both talking about today is we never
got an uphill putt to the hole.  We were really struggling with
that, they were so much slower than yesterday.  But coming down
the hills, they're running out still.
Q.  Are you okay with them doing that to the course?  Did it
throw you off?  Seemed like early you were having a hard time.
TIGER WOODS:  I was having a hard time to get the ball,
one, to chase, and then on top of that trying to hit the putts
hard enough going up the hills.  But then towards the middle part
of my round I lost the pace and was blowing it past the hole.  But
finally got it fixed at the end.
Q.  The power par saves on 10, 14, 15, you were working the
backside.
TIGER WOODS:  It was tough out there.  Like the 10th
hole, that putt's tough, because, again, I was explaining earlier,
it was uphill, and it's slow.  But it gets past the hole and it
goes downhill and downwind.  But it was a nice putt to make there.
13, as far as past that putt would have gone yesterday if
it hadn't gone in, is about as far short as I ended up today.  And
I happened to make it.
Q.  How about your putting right now, is it close to being
where it was a few years ago?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, you know what, I was leading strokes
game most of the year.
Q.  But feeling-wise?
TIGER WOODS:  I'm putting good this year.  (Laughter)
Sorry, but I do feel good over it.  And like I have most of the
year.
It's tough out there right now with the wind blowing a
little bit.  It's moving putts.  We had to allow for some -- we
needed to hold it or to move it.  And that's all feel.  And
hopefully you guess right.
Q.  How does it set you up for the weekend?
TIGER WOODS:  I'm in a good spot.  I'm tied for the
clubhouse lead I think now with Henrik and Westie.  These guys
have to go out this afternoon and obviously play a golf course
that's quick and it's drying out and with a different wind.  So it
will be tough out there.
Q.  Will you watch them suffer?
TIGER WOODS:  I'm going to go eat.  I might, might not.
Q.  What do you have to do over the weekend to score the way
you want to?
TIGER WOODS:  Just continue plodding along.  Just
continue just being patient, putting the ball in the right spots
and trying -- we're not going to get a lot of opportunities out
there, but when I have, I've been able to capitalize, and
hopefully I can continue doing that.
Q.  Do you feel you've been patient enough on weekends at
Majors in the last few years?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I've been right there.  I give myself
chances.  And this is going to be a difficult one, if the wind
continues to come out of the east, I think what the forecast is
for tomorrow, and maybe a little bit cooler, obviously if it's a
little cooler, a little more humidity in the air.
We'll see what they do overnight on the golf course, see
if they put just a little water on or they just let it go.
Q.  What do you think it might take over the weekend
score-wise to win?
TIGER WOODS:  I don't know.  It's one of those things
where it's changed daily.  The practice rounds, I've played early,
and there are quite a few ball marks out there.  Then we get out
there yesterday where there's nothing.  And hitting 6-irons in a
couple of holes that were going 275, 280.  Today I hit a sand
wedge about 180 on one of the holes out there.
With this golf course, it's what this golf course does.
It's so quick.  It depends on where you land, on what side of the
slope.  Is it on the backside or the front side and that
determines a lot how far the ball is going to go.  It's going to
be a big test.
Q.  You've had some wonderful performances in the majors the
last few years.  Obviously you haven't won.  Do you ever let that
get to you, do you say, I wanted this badly?
TIGER WOODS:  You continue playing, continue putting
myself there.  I'm not going to win every Major I play in, but
certainly I can try and put myself there.  If I give myself enough
opportunities, I'll get my share, and I think I have so far in my
career.
Q.  Is it hard to believe it's been five years, though?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, well, I've put myself there, I just
haven't won.  I've had chances on the back nine on many of those
Sundays.  Just one of those things where I haven't gotten it.
Just continue putting myself there.
Q.  There's a few people that have ever hit the greens like
you do.  When you bring Joey in on 8, is he confirming what you
think you see or reading it on his own?
TIGER WOODS:  I let him read it on his own and then we
confer.  I only bring him on the hard ones.
Q.  That's why I'm asking.
TIGER WOODS:  The easy ones I've got; they're easy.
Q.  Are you looking for a confirmation from him?
TIGER WOODS:  A lot of times I am.  And other times I'm
seeing two different things, one from behind the ball, one from
behind the hole.  And I just want to get what he sees.  A lot of
times we read putts, where I want him to say what it does early,
what it does late.  If there's going to be a transition anywhere
on the putt.
Q.  Is that what happened on?  You actually paused and you
don't do that.
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I was really -- I felt left center,
but I kept looking at it.  I feel more dead straight to right
center.  And then maybe I need to play left center, because the
wind is blowing, it's coming off my left, going to move it down
the hill.  Maybe, maybe not.  And then I blocked it.
Q.  How many drivers did you hit?
TIGER WOODS:  I've hit, I believe, about eight or ten.
Q.  Where?
TIGER WOODS:  On the range (laughter).  I got you.


 
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT