THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2013
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How were the conditions out there?
TIGER WOODS:  It was tough.  The golf course
progressively got more dried out and more difficult as we played.
And I'm very pleased to shoot anything even par or better.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I mean, it was amazing, when I got
over that tee shot, I was, if I hammer it, this 3-wood is in that
bunker.  So maybe I should take something off it.  Maybe I should
hit 5-wood.  Hence I hit a flip hook left and there she goes.  I
took an unplayable, hit the shot where I wanted to, hit it right
of the hole and I got up and down.
Q.  Describe the mental process of the grind.
TIGER WOODS:  Well, the golf course just kept drying out.
And it was so hard to get the ball close, even lag putt and try to
get the ball the right speed.  It was very difficult.  And I tried
to keep the ball in front of me as best I could.  And hole a putt
if I could, if I could keep it below the hole.  But, again, it was
so difficult to get the ball even below the hole and in the right
spot.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:  Well, I could see how guys were complaining
about it.  If there's more moisture on the greens, then that's
fine.  But as the golf course dried out it got quick.  Some of
these putts today, I mean, I putted the ball off the green today.
And it really wasn't that bad a putt.  Anything that goes four
feet by, it's gone.  It was tough.
Q.  Is it borderline unfair?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, the golf course progressed.  You
could see how guys could feel that way.  It got so fast and so dry
that, as I said, it was hard to get the ball close and even
lag-putt the ball at the right speed.
Q.  You talked about many times having fun while you're
playing helps.  Were you capable of having fun today?
TIGER WOODS:  It was more of a grind than one of those
Pro Am, happy-go-lucky, you know, talking to your playing partner
all day.  There wasn't a lot of talking out there today because
we're trying to grind it out on that golf course, and it's one of
those courses where it just got so difficult.  And Louis got hurt,
Graeme was struggling a little bit, and we were all playing our
own games.
Q.  What do you see as the benefits of tomorrow morning?
TIGER WOODS:  That all depends on what they do.  I don't
know what they're going to do with the golf course, if they're
going to keep it dry and fast and let it get to where it is this
afternoon.  Are they going to put some water on it?  They put some
water on the practice rounds.  When we came out this morning,
there was moisture on them, but they dried out in the afternoon.
And also we're supposed to get a different wind tomorrow.  It will
be interesting to see what the course setup is tomorrow.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:  No, I've taken long breaks off before,
before Major championships.  I've played this tournament when
Firestone was on the backside of the PGA, I didn't play, and I won
the PGA doing it that way, too.  I've taken three and four weeks
off and come back and played well.
Q.  Given the afternoon conditions, what do you make of
Mark's round?  Tom Lehman's round?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, I think they understand how to play
links golf.  It takes a certain understanding and certain
knowledge to play this type of golf.  And on top of that, I think
that the fast conditions certainly help.  The guys who don't carry
the ball as far.  And those guys are in their 50s, they don't hit
the ball as far as they used to.  The fast conditions certainly
help that.
But you have to understand how to play it, too, and how
to shape the shots, where to land it, what kind of spin you're
going to have on it.  And those guys have won The Open
Championship before.
Q.  What are your thoughts when you saw Mark out there near
the top?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, you know, I was very happy.  I got on
the range and saw him, and he was at 3-under par and I left the
range he was at 4.  And then I walked to the putting green and he
was just getting to the 10th tee.  I had to run across the
fairway.  And he just birdied 9 to go to 5.  So I gave him a
little thumbs up and he piped it right down 10, a little high draw
up against the wind.  It was nice to see.  I'm happy for him and
proud of him.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:  Elbow held up great.  That's one of the
reasons I took the break to make sure that was good.  I knew the
ground was going to be hard over here.  There's potential for
having some long rough.  And that little time off helped.
Q.  (Inaudible.) Does this bring you back a little bit to
Hoylake?
TIGER WOODS:  They're so different, so different.  I
mean, this is almost -- it's about as fast as Hoylake was.  But
there's knee-high rough here.  And plus this golf course changes
directions a lot.  A lot of different directions, a lot of
different shaped shots you have to hit.  Hoylake was pretty simple
in that regard.  It didn't blow as much there.  Our scores
reflected it.  We were all pretty low; we were all in the teens,
under par.  This is a totally different set up.
Q.  When you come here the expectations for the weather,
obviously, this is so much the opposite, it isn't even funny.  How
does this affect you?  It's like you're in Spain right now or
Florida some?
TIGER WOODS:  I wouldn't quite say Florida, but I'm sure
there's a lot of red people out there (laughter).
Q.  Your emotions, as far as like you expect one thing and
get another.  Are you planning for one thing or does that not
really matter?
TIGER WOODS:  You know, you pack for the other weather,
but we got this.  And we have a westerly wind today, it was hot,
it was warm, the ball was flying.  And wind is supposed to come
out of the east tomorrow.  And it could be cooler, it could be
not.  It could be warm.  You just never know.  And that's the
thing about links golf, you just don't know.
The wind actually changes with the tide.  And the tide
goes in and out.  You've just got to be prepared for all of it and
be fluid in your course adjustments.









END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT