THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2013
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  MIKE WOODCOCK:  Good morning, everyone.  We'll get
  started.  I'd like to welcome the three-time Open champion, Tiger
  Woods.  Thank you for joining us this morning.  You've had a great
  season so far, Tiger; four wins on Tour.  You must be coming into
  this week with a lot of confidence.
  TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I'm looking forward to it.  What a
  fantastic championship on one of the best venues.  Really looking
  forward to Thursday.  It's playing really fast out there.  The
  golf course has got a little bit of speed to it.  Today is a
  little bit slower.  I think somebody might have put some water on
  it last night.  But it's pretty quick, and I'm sure it will get
  really quick by the weekend.  So the golf course is set up
  perfectly, and really looking forward to it.
Q.  At Hoylake you developed a strategy to virtually play
    without any irons all the way around because it was so hard and
    running.  Will it be pretty much the same this week?
  TIGER WOODS:  I used a lot of irons, actually.  I only
  hit one driver that week.  This golf course is playing similar to
  that.  It's quick.  And so far I've played a couple of days now,
  three days, and I've only hit a couple of drivers here.
  I remember Jason was playing with me the other day and he
  hadn't hit a driver yet.  A lot of irons off the tees.  Some of
  the holes, 4-iron was going 280.  3-iron is going a little over
  300 yards.  So it's quick.  That's on this wind.
  So obviously it could change.  Like what we had in '02,
  it could come out of the northeast and it could be a totally
  different golf course.
Q.  Does it matter, the amount that the ball runs on the
    fairway after it lands has got to be the important thing?
  TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, it's being able to control that as
  best you possibly can.  Downwind holes, that if you hit -- I've
  hit 3-wood, I'll run probably close to 80, 90 yards.  Sometimes a
  little bit more than that.  And you can chase balls that can go a
  long ways.  And on 17 yesterday I hit 3-iron, 3-iron over the
  green.  And granted, it's just all in the run.  It all depends on
  where you land it.  It could land into a slope and get killed or
  land on the backside and it could shoot forward another 40, 50
  yards.  And that's the neat thing about links golf, is that it's
  predictable, but also unpredictable at the same time.
Q.  Coming into the week, I want to ask you about confidence
    and mental toughness, and in particular just coming into Majors.
    I think it's probably one thing to come in when you are winning
    Majors, but when there is a little bit of a streak where you
    haven't won, you'd think maybe that confidence or that mental
    toughness would waver.  Has yours wavered at all?  And if so,
    please explain.  If not, please explain.
  TIGER WOODS:  No, I feel very good about my game.  I felt
  very, very good going into Major championships.  I've had a pretty
  good year this year so far; won four times.  Even though I haven't
  won a Major championship in five years, I've been there in a bunch
  of them where I've had chances.  I just need to keep putting
  myself there and eventually I'll get some.
Q.  The last time you were here you got caught in that
    horrendous piece of weather.
  TIGER WOODS:  Really?
Q.  Yeah, if I remember correctly.  Where would that rank in
    your bad weather days?
  TIGER WOODS:  That was the worst I've ever played in.  I
  think because of the fact that we weren't prepared for it, that no
  one was prepared for it.  There was a slight chance of maybe a
  shower (laughter).  Obviously the forecast was very wrong on that.
  So none of us were prepared clothing-wise.  A lot of guys just had
  golf shirts and a rain jacket, and that was it.  That was all they
  had.
  I think that's one of the biggest things.  The windchill
  was in the 30s.  The umbrella became useless, because the wind was
  blowing so hard, you couldn't control the umbrella.  It was just a
  cold, cold day.  We played through probably maybe 13, 14 holes of
  it.  And then it started easing up towards the end.  And by then
  the damage had already been done to my round.  I was already maybe
  12 over par, I think it was, until I played 17.  It was a tough
  day all around.
Q.  What do you make of the list of winners here over the
    years?  Do you find it coincidence or is there something about
    Muirfield that brings out the best of that time?
  TIGER WOODS:  You know, I think it's the quality of the
  golf course.  I mean you have to hit the ball well here.  You have
  to be able to shape your shots.  I think it's very similar to look
  at the list of winners at our last Major, U.S. Open, Merion.
  Again, all wonderful ball strikers.  And I think this is the same
  here.  I mean, look at the list of past champions.  The number of
  Hall of Famers that there are who have won here.  I think it just
  goes to show you you really have to hit the ball well.
  You have to be able to shape it both ways.  You can't
  just hit one way.  You have to shape it both ways and really
  control the shots.  Because you're not playing, like you are at
  St. Andrews out and back or Troon.  You're playing almost in kind
  of a circle, in a sense, because you've got so many different
  angles and so many different winds, you have to be able to
  maneuver the ball both ways.
Q.  When you have a round like 81 that you had last time over
    here, do you store it up for your use later on or do you tend to
    forget it in a hurry?
  TIGER WOODS:  Well, I've tried to forget it.  My goal
  going in on Sunday was to get myself back to even par, which I
  believe I did.  Either even par or over par, I was close.  That
  was my goal.  I really played well on Sunday.  I just happened to
  catch the weather at the worst time and I didn't play well at the
  same time.  So it was a double whammy.
  I believe that is the worst score I've shot as a
  professional.  It was a tough one.  But that's the way it goes.
Q.  Have you analyzed sort of over the last five years, what
    it is that has prevented you from adding to your Major tally?  As
    you say, you've put yourself into contention.  You've knocked off
    wins on Tour.  What is it that's kind of stopped you at the
    Majors, would you say?
  TIGER WOODS:  I think it's just a shot here and there.
  It's making a key up-and-down here or getting a good bounce here,
  capitalizing on an opportunity here and there.  For instance, this
  year at Augusta was one of those examples.  I really played well,
  and a good shot ended up having a bad break.
  So it's a shot here and a shot there.  It's not much.  It
  could happen on the first day, it could happen on the last day.
  But it's turning that tide and getting the momentum at the right
  time or capitalizing on our opportunity.  That's what you have to
  do to win Major championships.
Q.  Heading into this one, how is your fitness?  Can you give
    us an idea of what the situation is with your elbow?
  TIGER WOODS:  The elbow feels good.  It's one of the good
  things of taking the time off to let it heal and get the treatment
  and therapy on it.  The main reason was that coming over here the
  ground is going to be hard, obviously.  And I'm going to need that
  elbow to be good.  And just in case the rough was -- well, reports
  were it was going to be high, and it was going to be lush.  I
  needed to have this thing set and healed.  And everything is good
  to go.
Q.  This is your 17th Open championship, and you've won three
    times in the past.  What does it mean for you to be here?
  TIGER WOODS:  I love this championship.  I just think
  it's so neat to be able to play this type of golf.  There's only
  certain places in the world in which we can.  And here and
  probably the Aussie Sandbelt courses are the only places where we
  can truly play links-type golf; bounce the ball up, shape shots,
  and really be creative.
  I fell in love with it 17 years ago when I first came
  over here and I got a chance -- my introduction to links golf was
  Carnoustie at the Scottish Open and St. Andrews were back-to-back
  weeks.  That's as good as it gets.  And I absolutely fell in love
  with it, to be able to dink a 5-iron from 150 yards and bump it on
  the ground.  Or vice versa, have 260 out and hit a 4-iron and it
  bounces over the green.  That to me is pretty neat.  Because we
  play generally everywhere around the world an airborne game where
  you have to hit the ball straight up in the air and make it stop.
  Here it's different.  A draw will go one distance, a fade will go
  another, and they're so dramatic.  And I just absolutely love it.
Q.  You played at Merion with Rory.  I wonder if you remember
    the early days of your start when people began analyzing every
    result, every swing, that kind of thing.  He won a Major only six
    or eight months ago.  Do you remember the early days of what it's
    like dealing with that kind of scrutiny and how you learned to
    deal with it as you grew up?
  TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I won a Major championship my first
  one out as a professional, and then I proceeded to alter my swing
  a bit with Butch.  And it took me the better part of a year and a
  half, maybe almost two years before it really clicked in.  I was
  getting questioned quite a bit through that era, that stage of my
  career, why would you do something to that nature?  There's a lot
  of questions of, why would you change something?  And do this, do
  that, and how could you change something that won the Masters by
  12?
  And, yeah, I've gone through that, that process.  I think
  that for him, he's going through that right now and he's making
  some alterations.  Only he knows it's for the betterment of his
  game.  People obviously speculate and analyze and hypothesize
  about what he should or shouldn't do, but deep down he knows what
  he's doing.
Q.  What do you think is the percentage or the balance,
    maybe, of Majors that are properly won compared with Majors that
    you look back on which you say that somebody lost it?  And while I
    can't think of any Majors that you won that required some
    contributions from others, if you will, why do you think that
    happens?
  TIGER WOODS:  Well, I think it's very simple, there's a
  lot of pressure in Major championships, and you're also playing
  under the most difficult conditions.  Generally in these Majors
  you're probably getting, what, close to the top 100 players in the
  world.  And you combine the strength of field with the most
  difficult conditions and with the most heightened pressure, you're
  going to get guys making mistakes.  And conversely, sometimes when
  you get those conditions you get guys who are playing fantastic.
  So I don't know if I can give you a percentage on how it
  goes, but we've seen, throughout the years, where guys have
  certainly played well and executed on the back nine and have gone
  on to win.  And where also when guys have had leads and made a
  bunch of mistakes, and have thrown away.  It goes both ways.  And
  that's the neat thing about Major championships, it can happen.
  And you just don't know until the back nine on Sunday.
Q.  It's Nelson Mandela's birthday on Thursday.  Do you have
    any memories of meeting him or spending time with him that you
    look back on fondly?
  TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, the first time I ever met President
  Mandela was in '98.  I went down there to play Sun City, and he
  invited us to his home.  And my father and I went to have lunch
  with him.  It still gives me chills to this day, thinking about
  it.  A gentleman asked us to go into this side room over here and,
  "President Mandela will join you in a little bit."  And we walked
  in the room and my dad and I were just kind of looking around.
  And I said, "Dad, do you feel that?"  And he says, "Yeah, it feels
  different in this room."  And it was just like a different energy
  in the room.  We just looked at each other and just shrugged our
  shoulders and whatever.
  And maybe, I'm guessing probably 30 seconds later, I
  heard some movement behind me and it was President Mandela folding
  up the paper.  And it was pretty amazing.  The energy that he has,
  that he exudes, is unlike any person I've ever met.  And it was an
  honor to meet him at his home.  And that's an experience that I
  will never, ever forget.
Q.  We know you are somebody that likes to practice at the
    crack of dawn before the Majors.  We understand you were prevented
    from going out before 7:00 yesterday.  Can you tell us the
    circumstances?  Has it been an inconvenience not to be able to
    practice earlier?  Do you think perhaps you were targeted slightly
    so that more people can see you later in the day?
  TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I like getting up early, especially
  when the sun comes up at 4:00 in the morning here.  It's hard to
  sleep in.  And I don't sleep much to begin with.  It's light
  early.  I've always liked coming out here.  The golf course
  doesn't change much; from five in the morning to seven at night,
  nine at night, it's virtually the same.
  Peter was explaining that he's having the grounds crew
  cut it from No. 1 through 18 as a routine, to get them accustomed
  to that pattern for the championship.  That's one of the reasons
  why he wants us to tee off at 7:00 on the first tee.  I totally
  understand it.
  I remember at St. Andrews, that Mark, Calc and I would go
  out there at about 5 a.m. and drop at ball on 2, and play on and
  come back in.  And go back out and putt it at 8 or 9 at night.
Q.  Given the fact that you had the elbow injury before this,
    obviously you haven't practiced as much as you'd like to.  Would
    you have preferred to be out early so that you could've got more
    holes in?
  TIGER WOODS:  No, I was always going to just play nine
  each day.  And that was the plan, not to push it on the amount of
  holes, especially on, as I said, on this hard ground.  I've been
  playing a lot at home.  But it's Florida, it rains every day, it's
  soft.  It's two totally different conditions.  I just wanted to
  make sure that I'm rested and feel fit and ready to go for the
  championship.  I've done a lot of homework on the greens each day.
  And I've taken my time and really got a good feel for them.
  So that's been good.  I just would like to maybe get
  another wind in, a little different direction.  We've had it the
  same the last three days.
Q.  You've never been one to complain about injuries.  You go
    out and play, if you can play.  We didn't know about your elbow at
    Merion until the last day or two.  How much did that affect your
    score?  You obviously had a bad total.  In other words, was it a
    type, I shouldn't be in the tournament, or did it matter?
  TIGER WOODS:  It didn't feel good.  It didn't feel good,
  especially in the rough.  That rough was dense and it was lush.
  You go from whatever it is, let's say 100-some-odd miles an hour
  to virtually zero.  And that's what was the tough part about it.
  I really couldn't get through it.  And it put a lot of torque on
  it and it hurt.
  Conversely, just stay out of the damn thing.  Put it in
  the fairway and put it on the green and make your putts.  It's not
  like I was drawing bad lies on those tee boxes.
Q.  That's an Open, isn't it?  You're going to hit some of
    the rough?
  TIGER WOODS:  You're going to hit some in the rough.  You
  just have to stay out of it, though.  On a golf course that was
  set up like that, it was soft.  And it was a golf course that you
  could be a little bit aggressive and get the ball in there and it
  would land in the fairway and keep it in the fairway.
  This is different.  This golf course is way different.
  Hitting the ball in the fairway doesn't mean it's going to stay in
  the fairway.  It's got to be hit with the correct shaped shot and
  trajectory.
Q.  You've obviously been qualified for Majors pretty much as
    you came in.  I just wonder, for guys like a Jordan Spieth who got
    in last second, grinded it out Sunday on the playoff.  What kind
    of appreciation do you have for that and/or interest, as you're
    watching that for guys getting through it, just the drama of that?
  TIGER WOODS:  I think it's fantastic for him.  Being 19
  years old and having an opportunity to not only to have a chance
  to win his first tournament, but the way he did it and went out
  there in the playoff and got it done.
  By winning a tournament it gives you so many different
  opportunities, playing opportunities.  Now he's exempt on Tour for
  a couple of years, he's got a chance to play in the Masters, and
  here at Major championships.  Now he's into World Golf
  Championships.  He's into big events now, which when he first
  started out, he didn't have his card.  So quickly to go from that
  to playing the biggest championships, and be exempt for a couple
  of years is a pretty fantastic accomplishment.
Q.  As a sports fan, do you appreciate kind of the drama of
    that?
  TIGER WOODS:  I think it's fantastic.  I think it's great
  for guys to have that opportunity.  We went through a stretch
  there which I don't think a lot of us agreed with, where guys
  would win tournaments and not get into the Masters.  I think to
  have an opportunity to win golf tournaments and get you into big
  championships such as this and the rest of the Majors, I think
  that's what makes it so exciting for all those players who have
  that opportunity on the back nine on that last day.
Q.  Do you feel morally there's a difference between a golf
    club that excludes people on the basis of their sex from a golf
    club that excludes people on the basis of their race?
  TIGER WOODS:  I don't make the policies here.  I'm not a
  member, so I'm not going to speak for the club.
Q.  Do you feel comfortable playing an Open Championship at a
    golf course that has those management rules?
  TIGER WOODS:  We've played the Masters, we've played
  here.  And I don't know of any other places.
Q.  Given the difficulty of the golf course and the cast of
    legends that have won here, do you think it's less likely that
    we'll see an outsider coming from the pack to win?
  TIGER WOODS:  You know, you probably can't say that given
  the fact that over the past, what, five years or so, four or five
  years, that we've had first-time winners at virtually every single
  Major.  The fields are so deep now and the margin between the
  first player and the last player in the field is not that big
  anymore; it's very small.  I think that's one of the reasons why
  you're seeing so many first-time winners.
  Also the equipment has changed quite a bit over the
  years.  The equipment, it's so precise now.  This allows guys to
  basically stack up.  When you get that combined with better, more
  athletic players, you're going to get guys who are winning for the
  first time.
  MIKE WOODCOCK:  Tiger, thanks for your time and best of
  luck this week.
  
  
  





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT