U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2013
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Could you just give us comments on the week?  
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I didn't make a lot of putts the first couple of days and yesterday.   I had three‑putts the first couple of days.   And that's one shot off the lead.  
Yesterday obviously I did not play well.  
Today was a little bit strung out in these conditions.   The conditions are tough out there.   Not a lot of low scores out there, for sure.   
   
 Q.   How did you think Merion played overall?  
TIGER WOODS:   It played tricky.   The rough was up.   They were raking the rough up every morning into the grain.   And the pins were really tough.   
Kuch and I were talking about that this morning.   We knew all the areas we were going to put it, but sometimes we would be three paces off within the area, they put it so close to the edge.   A couple of times there, step over a hump.   I didn't think they were going to be that difficult, but given the soft conditions, I think that's what they tried to do.  
   
 Q.   What was your overall experience in Philadelphia?  
TIGER WOODS:   It was a good reek overall.   I'm sorry that the golf wasn't what I would like to have it.   
But it was a fantastic atmosphere, the people were into it.   Obviously there weren't as many people as some of the U.S. Open sites.   But this was, I think, more intimate.   People were very close to you.   Sometimes we get a lot of people, like at Bethpage, but they're so far off away from us.   Here, because the property is so small, I think the galleries were a little bit closer than they have been in most U.S. Open sites.  
   
 Q.   It took a long time to get a U.S. Open back here.   Would you like to see one back here?  
TIGER WOODS:   I'm sure it will come back.   Obviously there are some vendors that are going to make more money with hospitality and that nature.   But I think that overall as a golf course, yes, it can be played.   They move the tees back, and they give us some pretty tough pins this week.   But certainly as a golf course‑wise, it could definitely host another Major Championship.   But I don't know if USGA wants to‑‑ they make a lot of money on other venues.  
   
 Q.   What would you prefer, this kind of course or a bigger course with more people?  
TIGER WOODS:   It doesn't matter, as long as I get the W.  
   
 Q.   The way you putted, is that something you could work on?  
TIGER WOODS:   I struggled with the speed all week.   These greens are grainy.   It's one of the older bent grasses, creeping bent.   So it's a little bit grainy.   I struggled with the speed, especially right around the hole, putts were breaking a lot more, I gave it a little more break and then it would hang.   That's kind of the way it was this week.  
   
 Q.   Do you know how many fairways you hit?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, that's kind of the way I've been hitting all year.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel about your iron play this week?  
TIGER WOODS:   It wasn't as sharp as I'd like.   I just didn't quite hit the ball‑‑ I hit the ball‑‑ hit the correct distances most of the time, but they weren't in the correct areas that I'd like to have.   I was trying to hit the ball in certain spots, give myself uphill looks on some other putts, but I didn't quite do that.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
TIGER WOODS:   They were tough.   They were tough.   I can understand what Mike and his staff are doing, because it's soft out there.   And trying to protect par, even though they say they don't.   But I understand what they're trying to do.   The hard holes played really, really hard.   And obviously the short holes we could get after it a little bit.   But some of these pins, they were a step over some of the lumps.   And that's a little bit tighter than we were all expecting going into the week.  
   
 Q.   Do you forget about how you played this week?  
TIGER WOODS:   There's always a lesson to be learned in every tournament whether you win or lose.   I'll look back at the things I did right and the things I did wrong.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
TIGER WOODS:   I did a lot of things right.   Unfortunately I did a few things wrong, as well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT