THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
May 31, 2013
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A bit of a tough day?  
    TIGER WOODS:   Yeah.   Tough conditions out there and I didn't exactly play my best either.  
   
 Q.   Why do you think that is, Tiger?   Anything you can pin that on?  
    TIGER WOODS:   Well, it's a little rough out there.   It's not that hard to make bogeys and doubles on this golf course.   You miss it in the wrong spot, get the wrong gust, it's tough.   We had a few shots in our group that ended up in special interesting spots.  
   
 Q.   Seemed like you had challenges, a few things?  
    TIGER WOODS:   I had some‑‑ yeah, I had some interesting samples on the back nine.   I had a gust get me on 15 there.  
    We had some‑‑ missed about a foot on the 10th hole.   A couple of others that were missed by a yard here, a yard there.   A golf course like this you can get penalized.  
   
 Q.   Tough putting, too, with this wind?  
    TIGER WOODS:   They were moving all over the place and it's moving balls.   It's tough.   You try and stay below the hole as best you can.   But sometimes you have to get the ball on the green.   
   
 Q.   Do you find yourself at some point thinking I'm going to have to grind to make the cut, or are you thinking big picture, trying to get back in the tournament?  
    TIGER WOODS:   I'm just trying to get under par for the day for my round, and that obviously didn't turn out to be the case.   I thought I had a good chance to at least get to even par for my round.   The last hole I ended up making bogey.   All in all, it was a day fought hard, and that's all I have.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
    TIGER WOODS:   Well, it's warm out.   Usually the wind blows like this and it's 40.   Those are the hard ones.   This is warm and the ball is flying.   It's traveling.   We've had days when it's been like this and it's not warm at all.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
    TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, you know, the way this golf course is playing right now, you have to take advantage of certain holes, the downwind holes for sure.   Some of the par‑5s are playing more difficult than others.   But you can shoot a round under par here, you've just got to really play well.   
   
 Q.   The last four or five tournaments you've been striking the ball really well.   Where is your ball‑striking the last two days compared to that?  
    TIGER WOODS:   I'm not too disappointed with it.   I'm not that far off.   On a golf course like this, with the wind gusts like this, it's tough.  
   
 Q.   When you look at like two days like this, do you chalk it up that it's not going to be always my week?  
    TIGER WOODS:   I haven't won every tournament I've played in.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you're out of it?  
    TIGER WOODS:   No, we don't know if we're going to go two tee starts, because the storm is coming in or off one tee.   We're supposed to have very little wind this morning, but ended up blowing pretty hard but now it's picking up again.   We'll see what happens, see what they do.   If we get all bunched together, go off two tees tomorrow morning, it could be different, to get it spread out, see what happens.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
    TIGER WOODS:   I had a hard time with the speed.   They don't look that fast, but they're putting fast.   They have a little more moisture on them than they did yesterday afternoon.   It was kind of a little mental thing I was struggling with out there.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT