THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2013
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  TIGER WOODS:   I just kept leaving my putts where I had so many double breakers, I kept calling Joey in.   I didn't know if it was going to go right or left on a couple of the putts.   It was a day of patience for sure. 

Q.   Is it better to have more holes to play tomorrow, or would you have preferred to have gotten more done?
TIGER WOODS:   Well, considering that we didn't think we were going to get anything in, just going back out in this afternoon's session was good, but obviously the forecast didn't look very good.   There was a big cell or a front it looked like hitting the west coast of Florida coming here, and we didn't think we were going to get any holes in and we were in there chilling out and all of a sudden they said in position in 40 minutes.

Q.   I know you heard what Sergio said.   What's your explanation for what happened there on 2?
TIGER WOODS:   Well, the marshals, they told me he already hit, so I pulled a club and was getting ready to play my shot, and then I hear his comments afterwards and not real surprising that he's complaining about something.

Q.   Did you talk to him about it or did he talk to you?
TIGER WOODS:   We didn't do a lot of talking.

Q.   Did you know that he said that before you went back out or only just now?
TIGER WOODS:   No, I knew.

Q.   You said you had to be patient a couple of times today.   Did you have to tell yourself that or how do you slow that down?
TIGER WOODS:   Well, this is a big event and conditions are tough, they're tricky, and I've done well in big events, and I think that understanding how to play and how to play and manage my way around the golf course certainly helps.

Q.   You've got more than 18 to play tomorrow.   Do you have a different mentality heading into tomorrow?
TIGER WOODS:   Well, it's going to be obviously an early start, I think 7:10 ball in the air, and I don't know if they're going to go off one tee or two.   I think they're going to try and go off one.   But if we go off one it's going to be pretty late.   If we go off two, it may not be as late.

Q.   You missed birdies on 10, 11, 12 by a total of like eight inches.   How do you put that behind you?
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I hit good putts.   The greens slowed up just enough where those putts before the delay, those putts would have gone in if they would have had a little bit more pace to them.   I needed to make the adjustment, and I didn't quite do it.   They were maybe about six inches short of being perfect pace, and as you know late in the day, the holes get a little bit domed and you can see the ball kind of fall off on the edge of the holes.

Q.   Is there any advantage to getting those closing holes in the morning when it might be calmer?
TIGER WOODS:   Well, that's what we were saying out there in 15 fairway is that‑‑ I was asking Joey what was the forecast for tomorrow morning, is it going to be cool, is it going to be windy, what's the forecast, and it's not supposed to be much wind, so if that's the case, we'll call it quits.   If it was supposed to be windy and howly and gusty I would have played it, I would have gotten that hole in.   But it's supposed to die down and hopefully I'll have a little bit more benign conditions for that second shot.

Q.   What do you know about Lingmerth, the leader?
TIGER WOODS:   Not a lot.   I thought Henrik was leading.

Q.   Had you heard about him before?
TIGER WOODS:   I've heard of the name, but last time I checked the board Henrik was at 11.   I haven't seen anything since.

Q.   Lingmerth birdied 17 to get to 12. 
TIGER WOODS:   That's the first thing I've heard.   I just saw that Henrik was at 11 and Sergio and I were at 10 the last time I saw.

Q.   Have you ever seen him hit a golf shot, seen him, met him?
TIGER WOODS:   Don't know.   I'll see him tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT