THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2013
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your round?   Seemed like it was pretty good, a nice way to finish.   
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, it was a nice way to finish.   I thought I played a little bit better than I did yesterday.   I certainly hit the ball a little bit better than I did yesterday.   The conditions were pretty good starting out this morning.   It was pretty benign for the first six, seven, eight, nine holes, started picking up on our back nine, and it started probably to blow just as hard as it did yesterday afternoon.   
Again, we were the morning wave, and we still were getting some pretty good little spike marks out there.   The guys this afternoon with it crusty and dry, it's going to be a little more of a test.  
   
 Q.   What's been your approach these last couple days?  
TIGER WOODS:   Just trying to put the ball in play and then put the ball on the correct sides.   This golf course you have to be aggressive when you have the opportunity.   If it's a good situation, you've got to be aggressive, otherwise it's being conservative and dumping the ball and lag putting.   
But most importantly you have to miss the ball on the correct sides.   I've had some funky up‑and‑downs the last couple days but at least I've had room to get them up‑and‑down.  
   
 Q.   After you had the trouble on 14 you really locked in there for about nine or ten holes.   Did you feel like you had everything going for a while?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I felt like I warmed up really well today.   I hit a lot of good shots this morning, and I felt like I hit the ball well all day.   I hit the ball really solid, even though my misses were‑‑ I missed a couple left, I missed a couple right, I really hit them flush, and that's always a good sign.  
   
 Q.   How important was it to finish strong with that birdie?   
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, you know, it was nice.   I mean, I tugged the tee shot a little bit and I laid up probably 10 or 15 yards shorter than I wanted to.   I wanted to have a 60 in there.   Instead I had to hit a regular sand wedge, but at least I had a full shot in there to spin it and keep it around hole high, and that putt I've had before.   It just doesn't break as much from right to left as it looks, and actually it wants to creep back to the back part of the green.   I trusted my old read, and it went in.  
   
 Q.   With the exception of a few holes your driving was pretty solid today.   Can you talk about that?   
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I felt like I've really hit the ball well all day.   As I was saying, I hit a couple balls left and right, but I hammered them, so that's a good sign.   I like when I'm hitting it flush like that.   Left to right is relatively easy to fix.   It's when you're not hitting it solidly and doing that, that's always a little more of a task.   
   
 Q.   With the old greens, how much does that come into play with the resign or the changes to the course from five years back?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I've had that putt on Bermuda, which is nice.   That putt on bent actually breaks right to left, or actually rye back in March.   But that putt, the grain, it's right to left early and then it creeps back as it comes off that knob of the bunker.   As I said, I've had that putt probably in the last few years or something like that, somewhere down the road, but it was all on Bermuda, and it certainly doesn't break as much as it looks.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT