THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2013
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That 67, Tiger, is the best you've shot here since the final round in 2007 when you had a 67 as well.   What was the key out there for you today?   
TIGER WOODS:   Well, it was a day that I felt like I had to go out there and shoot something in the 60s today.   Most of the guys were under par in that morning session.   The afternoon wave got a little bit of wind and it dried out the greens.   Some of the greens were pretty bumpy.   Just had to leave the ball in the right spots, and I made some good saves today.  
   
 Q.   Normally it gets much more windy in the afternoon.   Having said that, today with that 67, how important is it to go low on a day like today where you get to turn around in the morning and fire at it again?   
TIGER WOODS:   Hopefully I can play a little bit better than I did today.   The ball was flying forever out there today in the afternoon.   I had 200 yards on the 18th hole and missed a little 8‑iron that flew flag high, so the ball was traveling.   It may not travel as far tomorrow morning, but I'm sure it will heat up.  
   
 Q.   You played 5‑under par, what do you need to do better tomorrow?   
TIGER WOODS:   Just overall, I need to strike the ball a little better than I did today.   I missed all the balls in the right spot, which is nice.   It's always nice when I can do that, and, as I said, make some saves.  
   
 Q.   Tiger, best opening round you've had here.   You've got to be pretty pleased with the round?   
TIGER WOODS:   I am pleased.   I felt like I hit the ball good enough, but more importantly, I missed the ball in all the correct spots.   Made some really nice saves out there.  
   
 Q.   Looked like you were dialled in on your yardages and flagged the ball pretty well?  
TIGER WOODS:   It is, I was surprising how far the ball was going.   I was telling Sands over here that I had 20 yards 18th hole and a little 8‑iron that flew flag high.   The ball was just traveling out there.   The ball was going for miles, and it played really, really short.  
   
 Q.   The conditions were pretty good this morning.   Hoping to get the same tomorrow?   
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, the greens will certainly be smoother.   There were some nice little dicey short ones out there.   And Sneds hit that couple of good putts that got kicked off line, and I had a huge spike mark there at 15, and hopefully tomorrow we'll get some smooth greens and get it going.  
   
 Q.   Well played today.   You said at the start of the week you talked about discipline.   Tell me how disciplined that performance was?   
TIGER WOODS:   I think the key today is I missed all the shots in the correct spots.   I left myself some easy up‑and‑downs, and I was able to convert those up‑and‑downs, which was nice.   I took care of the par‑5s today.  
   
 Q.   How in control of your game do you feel at the minute?   
TIGER WOODS:   I feel pretty good.   I've had a good year so far, and I think this is a continuation of that.  
   
 Q.   Obviously, some excellent scores today, but with the wind up this afternoon, how tricky was it?   
TIGER WOODS:   It was a little bit.   We had a couple gusts here and there that changed directions, but more than anything, the ball is flying forever.   I haven't hit the ball this far in a long time just with the heat and the wind.  
   
 Q.   This course obviously Pete Dye design.   You have to miss in the right spots.   You mentioned that.   How much do you enjoy a good challenge, because if you hit a good number around here you know you're on all aspects?  
TIGER WOODS:   It's one of those courses where it demands it.   You have to hit the ball well, you have to hit your irons well, and you're going to have some really funky up‑and‑downs here.   It is what it is.   You're going to have some really, really tough up‑and‑downs and you've got to make little short ones.   
This afternoon, the short ones were not easy.   There were a lot of spike marks, lot of bumps.   Sneds hit a couple good putts out there that got kicked off line so bad.   I had one there at 15 as well, so it was a little bit tough this afternoon.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT