MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 14, 2013
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What was the course like today?
TIGER WOODS:   I just thought the greens were so slow.   Yesterday they were so quick and dried out and today they were so much slower.   And that was before it even rained.   Once it rained it got even slower. 
From the first eight holes I think I left every putt short.   I had a hard time getting the speed and being committed to hitting the putts that hard when they were that fast yesterday afternoon what number if any did you have in your mind when you walked out. 
I thought 65 would win it outright today.   I thought that was going to be the number.   And that may do it.   Maybe 8‑ or 9‑under.   So who knows.   If I would have shot my number, it might have been a different story.

Q.   I know you're not a what if guy, but looking at it now, the sequence at 15, what did it mean for your Masters?
TIGER WOODS:   Well, we could do that what if in every tournament we lose, so we lose more tournaments than we win out here on TOUR, so that's just part of the process and I'll go back to it. 

Q.   Do you think about it at all, the two shots?
TIGER WOODS:   No, not when I'm playing.   No.   Absolutely not.   I got to focus on what I need to do, what where I need to place the golf ball and shoot the lowest score I possibly could at that moment.

Q.   What do you take away from this week?
TIGER WOODS:   That I played well.   I certainly missed my share of putts today, actually this week.   I also made a bunch too.   So it's one of those things where this golf course was playing a little bit tricky, we had four different green speeds out there and I could you please believe how slow they were the first two days, yesterday I con believe how fast they were, and then today it was another different speed again. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:   Looks like I'm going to finish fourth. 

Q.   Is it more encouragement, frustration, where are you mentally right now?
TIGER WOODS:   Mentally, I'm hungry. 
(Laughter.)   I always give you that hungry.   But, seriously, I'm like hungry. 

Q.   I know you just walked off, but walking away, what will you walk away with?
TIGER WOODS:   I certainly had a chance.   If I would have posted a number today, I was right there.   I was four back starting out the day and I thought I really played well this week.   I made my share of putts as well.

Q.   How much did you appreciate the support of the crowd?
TIGER WOODS:   They were fantastic.   I had so much encouragement out there.   They were absolutely incredible.   Especially yesterday starting out the day, I was, I couldn't believe the amount of support I had and everyone was just trying to get me to shoot a low one and I was very thankful for that. 

Q.   It's hard to not look at 15 with the two shots and how close you are now.   How do you walk away from that?
TIGER WOODS:   Well, we could do a what if on every tournament we lose.   We lose more tournaments than we win.   But I certainly had my opportunities to post some good rounds this week.   I thought I really played well, I missed a few putts this week, but also I made my share as well.   I made a bunch of 10 to 15 footers.   So overall it was a pretty good week. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:   I think I missed a few short ones here and there, but also I made, as I said, I made a boatload from 10‑15 feet this week.

Q.   You needed sort of a burst on the front nine to really get in there and didn't have it, in fact you went the other way.   Disappointing, obviously. 
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I really struggled with the green speeds starting out.   I couldn't believe how much slower they were even this is before it rained.   I just couldn't believe how slow they were starting out.   Because yesterday they were so fast and they were crusty, they were running out, and I think the first eight holes I didn't think I got a putt to the hole.   Everything was short or low sided.   So finally on 9 I said I'm going to hit this putt past the hole and it just snuck in on the front lip.

Q.   Is there any chance that you were mistaken when you said you were two yards back, because there were photos that looked like you were in the exact same spot?
TIGER WOODS:   No, I saw the photos. 

Q.   What do you think?
TIGER WOODS:   I was behind it. 

Q.   You do?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah. 

Q.   So you're pretty sure that the two yards is actually ‑‑
TIGER WOODS:   One, two yards.   But it certainly was not as close as the rule says. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:   Well it's either this one or my favorite is the British Open at St. Andrews.   That's my favorite golf course in the world.   So this is No. 2.   It's incredible. 

Q.   Is there a bigger sense of frustration maybe this week compared to some of the others because you're playing as well as you did. 
TIGER WOODS:   It's just the way it goes.   As I said, I had my opportunities to finish with some good numbers this week and I felt like I really played well and I've been playing ‑‑ I played this week the way I've been playing all year, and that's a good sign. 

Q.   Hitting a fan with a terrific shot there, is that about as bad a break as you've had in your career?
TIGER WOODS:   I've had a few, but that's certainly up there.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT