MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2013
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   That break on 15.   It looked like a pretty good shot and you walked away with a bogey. 
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, it was a nice little soft 60 in there, a little cutter in there.   Wind was, at the time, coming off the right.   And I just tried to hold it in there.   And I did. 
The sun was in my eyes, so I knew I started the ball on the flag.   I didn't know if I cut it enough, but evidently it was a really good one. 

Q.   Considering the conditions, the pace of play, you got to be pretty happy that you kept it wasn't a few shots. 
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, my ball striking was so good today.   Even my misses were on top of flags. 
The shot at 18 was flagged. 
I missed it on 12, got the wrong gust, again right on top of the flag. 
14 was right over the top of the flag. 
15 hit the flag. 
16's right at the flag again. 
I really swung the club well and didn't really get a lot out of this round.   Granted, these conditions were tough.   It was swirling all over the place.   I got a wrong gust on 12, I almost hit it in the TV tower.   Luke got another gust and he barely got it in the bunker.   So it's tough out there. 

Q.   How hard is it, that second shot on 15 after getting a bad break like that?
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I went down to the drop area, that wasn't going to be a good spot, because obviously it's into the grain, it's really grainy there.   And it was a little bit wet.   So it was muddy and not a good spot to drop. 
So I went back to where I played it from, but I went two yards further back and I took, tried to take two yards off the shot of what I felt I hit. 
And that should land me short of the flag and not have it either hit the flag or skip over the back.   I felt that that was going to be the right decision to take off four right there.   And I did.   It worked out perfectly. 

Q.   Do you feel, psychologically, that those two dropped shots on the back, even though one of them was very unlucky, I mean, it kind of puts you a little bit back from where you could have been.   You could have been right there. 
TIGER WOODS:   Oh, we all could have been doing that.   But there's a long way to go.   We got 36 holes and this is a tricky test. 
They did a hell of a job today setting up these tee boxes.   They put us back there.   And they gave us some really tough pins and some different pins. 
The pin on 11 is different.   It's not used to being that far away from the water.   If they're going to tuck the middle pin it's usually tighter to the water.

Q.   Did you hear about the penalty on Guan?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I just heard.

Q.   To our knowledge they never did give a stroke penalty before.   And even though he got warned, it seemed like he didn't really quite understand how you guys catch up when there's, when you're on the clock, you know to catch up. 
TIGER WOODS:   Right.

Q.   He's playing with a guy shooting in the 80s, just wonder what you think of the harshness of that. 
TIGER WOODS:   Well, rules are rules.   We have had a case of slow play for some of the guys out here on TOUR and we have our policies.   And, unfortunately, he either didn't pick it up or sometimes you can get guys who are hitting shots or backing off a couple shots and you can get weird times.   It can happen. 
I don't know what his situation is, but it's unfortunate.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT