ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 22, 2013
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What is the most frustrating about a finish like that? 
TIGER WOODS:   Well, now I'm 4 back.   I was up, at one point, 1 back and right there.   The good news is we've got 36 holes to go.   We've got a long way to go.   And certainly four shots can be made up.

Q.   What's been challenging about these closing holes the last couple of days? 
TIGER WOODS:   They've never been easy.   So I've sort of made my share of mistakes on the last few holes the last couple days, and I need to clean that up.

Q.   Sometimes you talk about that gap between how you play and how you score.   How would you measure that gap? 
TIGER WOODS:   I played way better than what I scored today.   I missed a couple of short ones, and I had a rough finish.   The score doesn't indicate how well I played today, so that's a good positive.

Q.   How do you assess the position going into the weekend? 
TIGER WOODS:   I'm only four back.   This golf course started to get a little fiery before the rain came in.   It was surprising.   It didn't really dry out that much.   It didn't really get that wet even with a little bit of moisture on it, they've still got a little spring in them.

Q.   You missed a couple of short ones, yet you made some nice ones.   Is that just golf? 
TIGER WOODS:   The two short ones I missed, I blocked them both.   So they're both left to righters, and the first one, number 2, I wasn't really‑‑ I knew the green was left‑to‑right, but I didn't think it was going to snag it quite like that.   So I tried to blister it and just ram it in there, and I actually blocked it too on top of that.   So bad combo there. 
The one at 12, again, it was a little left‑to‑righter, and I blocked that one.   That one was just a poor putt.

Q.   Was what you were struggling with before Doral that sort of thing? 
TIGER WOODS:   No, before that, it was pulls, so it would have been nice to pull those two putts and the green would have snagged it, and it would have gone back in.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, it was a 4‑iron, and the sand is so puffy in there that I couldn't get down in the bottom, and I didn't think it would be that bad.   I thought I could be flat footed and be okay and push with my legs.   But as soon as I pushed off, it slipped.

Q.   Saw some things yesterday that you haven't seen.   What about today? 
TIGER WOODS:   These aren't the normal pins that we're accustomed to.   We saw the dots out there when we were playing around yesterday.   We knew it was going to be a day in which if the wind blew it was going to be hard to score, but the wind never really blew that hard and it was warm.   So we could get the ball down there and have short irons in.

Q.   Tiger, what do you think about Erik Compton being out here after heart surgery?
TIGER WOODS:   Well, he's had two, so pretty incredible.   He's not just made it out here, but he's been able to be as successful and as positive and as upbeat as he is.   It's a testament to not only his doctors, but his perseverance as well that he's out here and playing.   And he earned his way out here.   It wasn't like he got gifts and got out here.   He earned his way, and he should be very proud of that.

Q.   The ups and downs, you usually don't have them like you did today.   I'm just wondering how you deal with that?   It looked like at one time, 66, 65, and then to have the ending like you did. 
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, it's just the way it goes.   16 was unfortunate.   17 I made a bad swing, and 18 I made a bad swing.   So all three holes I hit beautiful putts and I thought I made, but they're not realistic putts.   They're outside that range, so I need to do a better job like I did most of the day getting in the stiff and making those putts. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT