THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 3, 2013
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What do you take heading into Doral?   
TIGER WOODS:   I just made too many penalties this week.   Today is a perfect example, I didn't play that poorly.   I had two water balls and a lost ball.   Take those away, and I missed two short birdie putts, and it was actually a decent score.   So just got to clean up my rounds.   
   
 Q.   You just finished your day.   We're about to see the leaders go out to the back nine.   What do you expect to see this afternoon after playing in the conditions that you played in today?   
TIGER WOODS:   Well, there's one surprise, at 9, that was the biggest surprise with it being downwind.   They moved the tee up there.   We saw Dustin play it and I think he was playing with Branden Grace, they were playing when we were over on 4.   
So we got a chance to see what they were doing and where they were hitting it and that certainly helped but it was a bit of a shock to see the tee up on a downwind hole like that.  
Then you face 10 and figured 10 might be moved up but 10 was all the way back and I think most of the guys with good drives will be hit something kind of wood in there.  
   
 Q.   How difficult is the Bear Trap today?  
TIGER WOODS:   It's not too bad.   It's 8‑, or 9‑irons in there, just have to be committed to it.   Just not hitting 3‑ or 4‑irons in there.   There are a couple other holes that you're going to be hitting some long irons in there.   The greens are holding but they are a little bit quicker than they look, especially downgrain.   
   
 Q.   What happened with the lost ball?  
TIGER WOODS:   We were looking in the wrong spot.   I had a lost ball today and two water balls and shot 4‑over.   The penalty shots certainly added up my score and it was awe round that I felt like I should have shot probably even par or maybe 1‑ or 2‑under.   Those penalty shots, I missed two short birdie putts, one really short one at 8 and a good one at 10.   
   
 Q.   On a day like today, does it tell you much, you're trying to get it around, it's a hard day?  
TIGER WOODS:   It's a tough day.   It's more of a day of patience.   It's really hard to shoot a low number out here today, even a good one.   You can certainly shoot 1‑, 2‑, 3‑under par for sure.   
But anything lower than that is going to be really, really tough.   And if the wind is blowing the ball up on the grain a little bit, it's affecting even chip shots, bunker shots, you pull up in the air, it's moving it.   So it's tough out there.   
   
 Q.   Do you get anything out of this, anything you can work on for next week or the rest of the season today?  
TIGER WOODS:   I feel good with what I did, though.   It's just penalty shots.   Just got to clean up the rounds.   Obviously make a couple more putts and next thing you know, I'm 3‑under par.   
   
 Q.   How about the 3‑iron‑‑  
TIGER WOODS:   Probably two of the best 3‑irons I hit all year today, I nice little high, three quarter shaft draw on 10 which was a sweet one, and this was just a rip, high‑cut 3‑iron, work it both ways, two totally different shots.  
   
 Q.   What does that do for you at the end of a round like that?  
TIGER WOODS:   Lowers my score by two.   That's about it.   
   
 Q.   This one wasn't for 62 then?  
TIGER WOODS:   Not even close.   I think I passed 62 somewhere around 12.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT