THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 2, 2013
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Any debate on the drop on 17 in the dropped area of the tee box, was it a lost ball?
TIGER WOODS:   It was considered a lot of ball because it embedded in the bank but we didn't know if the ball was in the hazard or not.   So you don't know, and then it's a lost ball. 

Q.   Kind of lost your momentum somewhere there on the back nine, you had it going pretty nice for a while?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, you know, I was playing really solidly all day.   I caught a bad mud ball at 10 and I hit a slice hook, and then made bogey there and then 18, I hit another bad one and hit hook‑slice.   And then on 17, just stuck it in the ground a little bit, caught the wind and rode it over there and ended up making double. 
Realistically, if you play well, you can shoot about five or six under par, there's no doubt.   There's some accessible pins.   The greens are perfectly smooth out there.   They are not that fast so you can be pretty aggressive.

Q.   How big a factor was the wind? 
TIGER WOODS:   It was.   Certainly it had its moments where it was up pretty good and then it died down for maybe a hole.   But it's picked back up again.   There's some tee shots where we are going to have to commit out there and hit some good ones and same thing with second shots.   Guys this afternoon are going to certainly face that challenge and there's so many guys with chances, that anything can happen. 

Q.   For tomorrow‑‑
TIGER WOODS:   Play similar to what it did today‑‑ again, it's all based on weather. 

Q.   You got off to a fast start, did you feel like you had a chance to go low today?
TIGER WOODS:   I thought realistically 5‑ or 6‑under par would be a good score and I thought if I post that had I would be within six or seven shots of the lead going into tomorrow at worst.   So consequently right now I'm only nine back‑‑ (Inaudible.)

Q.   Your thoughts for tomorrow‑‑
TIGER WOODS:   Go out there and execute, simple as that, same thing I do every day.   Hopefully I'll get it going early. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:   Well, our groups had to deal with it more than most groups‑‑ sometimes it is because it happens quite often.   Had to back off a lot.   Feature groups definitely get a lot more than any other groups. 

Q.   Where are you compared to where you won at Torrey, not quite playing at that, or is it just a fine line?
TIGER WOODS:   You know, it's not that far off.   I feel like I'm probably just not quite driving it as well.   I'm driving it long.   Just not quite driving it as well. 
My iron game is pretty good and my short game is way better than it was at Torrey.   I feel very comfortable with my putting what I'm doing, so I need to obviously get it in play a little bit more and attack from there, because everything else is pretty good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT