ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 17, 2013
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Essentially your score at the end of the day still keeps you in the mix.   
TIGER WOODS:   No, I'm right there.   You know, if I 2‑putt the last hole, I'm in I think 12th or 13th or something like that.   There's not a lot of guys going low out there.   It's tough out there, and you know, these fairways are tiny to begin with, but there are a lot of crosswinds.   They are tough to hit and then that rough out there is pretty tough.   
   
 Q.   And yet the wind, not as strong as we've experienced in the buildup to the tournament, so what makes it particularly hard?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, as I said, the fairways are narrow but a lot of them are cross‑wind holes.   You seem like you're banking up against the wind pretty much all day.  
   
 Q.   Straight to the range?   
TIGER WOODS:   Straight to eat.   Well, more media first, how about that.   
Wanted to be able to shoot under par somehow, didn't quite do it.   Made a mistake at the last but it's tough out there.   These fairways are tiny to hit and seems like every hole is a crosswind hole.   Not too many holes are playing either straight down or straight in.   
   
 Q.   Last here you came here and the fairways were a little wider, and all of the sudden it's turned into a U.S. Open sort of venue and with the wind around these greens sort of firming up, what's the plan tomorrow?   How do you control your ball flight and distance control?   When you go to the range what do you work on now?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I don't think it's supposed to blow as hard tomorrow, at least that's the forecast.   It's still going to be difficult out there.   The rough is deep enough where it's tough to get to the green.   It's imperative to get the ball in the fairway.   
Not a lot of guys are going low today.   It's a day to of just kind of surviving and get going the next three days.  
Seems like every hole is crosswind and like you're banking up the ball against it all day.   It's tough out there.  
   
 Q.   Let's talk about the round, how important was the putt at the 15th?   
TIGER WOODS:   It was actually a nice one on 10, my first hole.   It was a good one.   I dropped and hit a perfect tee shot I thought on 10, get down there and I'm in the bunker.   Scrambling for par and made par.   That was nice.   15 obviously, and 17, 18, was good.   Then I made a few mistake there is at the start of my back nine.   
   
 Q.   Got to ask you, what happened on the 10th tee?   
TIGER WOODS:   Well, my game plan was to hit 3‑iron or 5‑wood on that hole, especially with this wind.   And then I changed the game plan and wasn't committed to the shot.   
I didn't want to hit it.   I was really fighting over that tee shot and I should have just backed off and bump it and followed my game plan.   I had a strategy for the day and clubs I was going to use and what spot I was going to hit it to, and I didn't do that, and you know, I paid the price making bogey.  
   
 Q.   You said in the off‑season you've worked more on your short game than long game and working back from the green, does that mean the long game has a bit more rust?   
TIGER WOODS:   I've always done it that way.   That's how I learned how to play the game was from the green back.   When you're 11 months old, you're not going to be bombing drivers out there.   
So that's how I learned the game and every off‑season I do the same thing.   I put and then start chipping and pitching and all the way up to the full game and playing.   It's worked so far in the past, and I feel very good about it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT