CIMB CLASSIC
October 27, 2012
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  TIGER WOODS:   It's just one of those things.   The back nine I made too many mistakes.   I kept making bad decisions and bad swings.

Q.   You started off the day five shots off the lead.   After five holes you were tied for the lead.   You go in to tomorrow five holes off the lead.   Are you going to be living more aggressive? 
TIGER WOODS:   I've got to shoot a low one and hope for the best.   I'm going to need help.   But I need to go out and shoot something really low like what Bo did today or something like that.   That might not even do it.   That's the thing.   I've put myself so far back that on this golf course it's going to be hard to make up those shots.

Q.   Is this a case of a loss of rhythm on the back nine? 
TIGER WOODS:   I made a couple bad decisions, bad swings on top of that.   Just, all in all, I basically made too many mistakes on a golf course that is playing this benign.   I can't afford to do that.   Look at all the guys up there.   Robert is the only one who is not really making a move today.   Everyone else is shooting low rounds today. 
It could be had out there.   I certainly had it through eight holes and just didn't keep it going at all.

Q.   Tiger on 17, the birdie turned into a bogey? 
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I three‑putted.   The first putt I didn't hit hard enough in the grain.   I knew the grain was coming hard off the right, and I didn't hit it hard enough.   The second one, the grain snagged it again.   For such a short putt, I know better than that.   It just snagged it, and hence I missed it.

Q.   Did the fact that so many players were shooting low, did that affect your concentration? 
TIGER WOODS:   No, not at all.   I was 5‑under through eight myself.   So I was right there with two par‑5s, a drivable par‑4, and some easier holes on that back nine to play still, I was in good shape.   At the time, I was either 1‑back or something like that.   But had plenty easy holes to go, and I didn't capitalize on that at all.

Q.   Do you think you can win tomorrow? 
TIGER WOODS:   I'm going to have to shoot a low one tomorrow.   Something similar to what Bo did today.   The problem with being this far back, I'm going to need help.   A great round tomorrow might not win it.   That is the only problem.   But I've got to put up a great round anyways.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT