THE PRESIDENTS CUP
December 9, 2019
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How was the flight?  
TIGER WOODS: I think J.T. put it out there, door to door, 26 hours. It was a long one but it was a good one.   
 Q.  777, customized, your best flight -- but used to Gulfstream?  
TIGER WOODS: It was good, to have the ability for all the guys to walk around, stretch their legs, had a nice little compartment up front where we could all hang out. Long flight, rest when you can, and if not, we got some stuff to keep us entertained.   
 Q.  Did you talk about Patrick the fans -- did you speak to him about it?  
TIGER WOODS: The fans are down here -- they are very into their sport. Yes, I have talked to Pat -- obviously we're in Australia, they have a couple Aussies on the team but again, this is a great sporting country and they love their sport and I think this will be a fantastic event.   
 Q.  Cam Smith implied the word "cheat" when talking about Patrick. What's your reaction to that and how do you think that will affect your team?  
TIGER WOODS: As we all know, pat was penalized that. Was it, end of story. Unfortunately missed the playoff by two shots, but we're on to this week and getting ready for the Internationals, and we've got a couple days. We wish we could have gone out to the golf course today but the plane was a little bit late. Guys were working out, training a little bit, trying to flush out our bodies and get ready for tomorrow.   
 Q.  How would you describe this team?  
TIGER WOODS: It's a great team, great mix of a couple older guys. The majority of the team is under 30, so we're talking stories, telling stories, telling some of the stuff that happened way back in '98 when some of these guys were still in diapers. It's pretty cool to have this many guys that are that young, they are fired up, some of them have never been here before, never been to Australia, so it's a neat experience for all of them and for some of us who have been here, come back here to such a great sporting match city, country, it's been fun.   
 Q.  You said you might do some meetings on the way on the plane. Did you do that or did you prioritize sleep?  
TIGER WOODS: We did both. We did all of the above. There's a day to kill in a tin can. So we talked about -- we had some meetings talking about a few things but also guys get your rest. We had our physios on board. Guys were getting worked on, and you know, just keep moving. Had a good time. We're mingling quite a bit on the first leg, and the second leg, we were sleeping when we could.   
 Q.  How does this International Team compare with some of the other ones you've gone up against in the past?  
TIGER WOODS: Well, it's different. It's like us. They have had a turnover. You know, when I first came out here, it was, you know, going against Vijay and Ernie and Nick and those guys are now have moved on and same with us on our side.   
Again, we have a lot of young guys that are under the age of 30. They do too, as well, and they have had a little turnover from their core group of guys they have had over the last ten years.   
Yeah, Ernie has created this new logo, new branding for their home side, and trying to start something that's going to last well beyond Ernie's captaincy, and for a lot of our guys on our U.S. side, this is their first time, so it's going to be a lot of fun for both sides.   
 Q.  What are some of the things you look forward to doing in Melbourne this week apart from golf?  
TIGER WOODS: Well, for us, we're coming down to play, and so we're going to be busy at the golf course for a lot of these players. This was supposed to be our day where we were able to do a few things, but unfortunately the plane got in a little bit late, so we won't have that opportunity. We're busy the next couple nights. Again, the tournament starts on Thursday, so we only have a couple days to get ready. So we've got to get the guys locked in.   
 Q.  Was there a time when you thought you might not get a chance to come back and play in Australia?  
TIGER WOODS: Absolutely. There was a point in time I didn't think I would ever play golf again. Just to come back here to an incredible city, incredible fans -- again, this is what I -- the best golf in the world. I've patterned my golf course design after links golf and for me to come back here to Melbourne and be able to play Royal Melbourne again, it's going to be a lot of fun.   
 Q.  Have you talked to your players about how to play the Sandbelt?  
TIGER WOODS: Well, we took a look at the weather forecast last week to see what's going to happen, and the northerly was only coming in for today, so we didn't get a chance to go out there, which is probably going to be a good thing. It's going to coming out of the south the rest of the week. It's been on the cooler side but still the golf course will be quick. When we played back here in 2011, they were running just over 14. They are going to get near that this week, so all things considered, a lot of run, a lot of roll, quick greens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT