DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2012
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your 68, how good was it compared to yesterday's 68 and also what you had the first day?   
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I just made more putts the first day.   Today I had a few nice looks.   In conditions like this it's obviously gettable.   Obviously Louis and Keegan both proved that.   Hopefully tomorrow I can go out there and see one of those rounds.  
   
 Q.   At one point Louis was 19‑under par and on the back nine you were 11‑under par, eight shots back, and you were just kind of wondering what's going on.   What do you think about when you see a player going crazy low like that?  
TIGER WOODS:   The goal was to put up 15.   Put up 15 and I was at the worst going to be five back, and that's certainly gettable.   Right now, what am I, six back, so obviously I need to put together a really nice round tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   When you are six back, what is the strategy?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, it's definitely gettable.   You have a short par‑4 the first hole and then a driver and kind of a short iron or mid iron into the second hole, and you can drive the 4th.   You've got to get off to a quick start, at least get some momentum going.   I did it once before against Vijay here, so maybe I can do it again.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
TIGER WOODS:   I had some looks today.   I hit the ball well again today and just didn't make as many putts as I did the first day.   With the conditions like this, we're going to have to shoot some good numbers.   It's definitely gettable.   Louis played a good round, Keegan played a good round early.   You can post 4, 5‑, 6‑under par on that front nine if you get it going early.   The back nine is certainly gettable, as well.  
   
 Q.   Only three guys ahead of you.   Do you think six back is definitely within range?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I'm going to have to put together one of those rounds.   I was telling Fred over here, it won't surprise me if somebody shoots 8‑ or 9‑under par tomorrow because of where the pin locations are.   Somebody is going to go out there and do it.   It may be early, it may be late, who knows, but hopefully I am one of those guys.   
   
 Q.   You said you rallied to beat Vijay here.   Can you draw upon that?  
TIGER WOODS:   Actually I think I shot 30 on the front nine against Vijay.   I'm going to need a quick start like I had that day.   That's basically what Louis did and that's what Keegan did, as well.   You get off to quick starts, you can get it going.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about those two chip shots?  
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I was trying to find my landing spot, and once I find a spot it'll funnel from there, I just focus on landing on that spot.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT