DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2012
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You're in great position going into the final days.   Are you happen which that?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I'm happy with the way I hit it.   I didn't putt very good.   I didn't really make anything.   Hopefully tomorrow will be a lot better.  
   
 Q.   But you did make that putt at 14.   
TIGER WOODS:   That doesn't count.   No, I had a nice little tip there from Sneds.   I saw what that putt did late.   I had a hard time figuring out what it was going to do late because it was questionable whether or not it was going to fall back to the left, and his putt, he got totally fooled on it.   I switched my read up a little bit and knocked it in.  
   
 Q.   Are you comfortable with putts of length on this course?  
TIGER WOODS:   No, my speed is good, it's just that I need to make a few more.   I had a bunch of looks today.   When the golf course gets like this, it's gettable, because all three par‑5s are reachable, and the greens are receptive enough that you can attack.   
   
 Q.   How hard is it when you get a bunch of looks not to let it fester?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, you've got to let it balance itself out because I made everything yesterday.   Today was one of those days where I had some good looks, missed them, but didn't feel like I was really rolling it correctly.   Then I figured something out, which was good at 13 and why I missed that putt, and then from then on, I poured it pretty good.  
   
 Q.   When you say it's your setup did you figure something out?  
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, just got my lines organized.  
   
 Q.   Your approach at 17, was that wind?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I was trying to cut it in there and I took too much off of it trying to hit a soft, cutting sand wedge and used that ridge on the left, and I upshot it too much into the wind, it was into me and right to left, and it just killed it.   I know better than that, if I want to hit that shot, I've got to go flatter than I did because that wind is moving up above those trees.  
   
 Q.   Your overall thoughts on the round?   
TIGER WOODS:   Overall not too bad.   I hit it good.   Got to go do a little bit more work on what we're working on and hit a few more putts.  
   
 Q.   You've already had some memorable times at this tournament.   What is it about this course that brings kind of big names‑‑  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I think if you look at the overall list of champions here, they're all big hitters.   This golf course lends itself to that because it's the par‑5s.   If you can play the par‑5s well here, you're going to do well.   For all of us who hit the ball a long way, all three par‑5s are reachable.   Not everyone can get to 7, and sometimes it's questionable getting to 18, but most of the guys‑‑ I mean, hell, Bubba and DJ were both hitting 9‑irons in there yesterday.   That's a big advantage.   
   
 Q.   Can you figure out Olin Browne winning here?  
TIGER WOODS:   It was one of those years it was hard and fast.   It was hard and fast that year.   It was as hard as it's been, and he was able to chase it down there.   But generally we don't get hard and dry conditions here, it's usually pretty soft this time of year.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
TIGER WOODS:   I wouldn't say it played shorter.   Yesterday was hotter so the ball was flying a little bit better.   It was really hard to pull a club out there.   The wind was dancing all over the place.   I know when I'm playing well, I don't usually struggle with pin high, but it was hard to get the ball pin high.   The wind was just all over the place.  
   
 Q.   The 4th hole has been a real challenge for a lot of people this week.   Everybody has been pretty much going for it, but is it because it's a small landing area or what?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, you have to miss it in certain spots.   That pin today, you want to miss it up the left, and then when it gets up on the left, you have to blow it past the flag.   It's all about angles because we know we can't keep it on the green.   There's no green to hit to.   But it's about where to leave it.   Your club choices kind of are dependent on that.   
It sounds simple, it's 280 front, but sometimes you've got to try and blow it over the green, and other times you've got to hit it short of the green.  
   
 Q.   The pin placement seemed really tough today, too.   
TIGER WOODS:   They were dicey out there today.   They put them out there in some pretty good spots, which is good.   This golf course is still gettable because it's soft.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the birdie on 17.   
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, it was just a 3‑iron, a 9‑iron to the right of the hole.   I saw a bunch of foot traffic past the hole and low and right.   Seemed like everybody hit their putt right there.   After taking a look at mine, I said, it's probably going to break a little bit more, so I gave it about another ball, ball and a half more, and it fell in.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT