THE BARCLAYS
August 24, 2012
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   First of all, is it knee, back? 
TIGER WOODS:   It's lower back. 

Q.   When did it happen?
TIGER WOODS:   This morning.   Must have slept funny on it.   Soft beds at the hotel, and woke up this morning with it stiff.   You know, as I warmed up, it got progressively worse, and then you saw what happened on the golf course. 

Q.   Was it during your warmup or ‑‑
TIGER WOODS:   No, it hurt all day.   It hurt all day.

Q.   Did it flare as you were going into that bunker on 13?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, that didn't feel very good.   That didn't feel very good at all.

Q.   Was there any moment where you thought you might not be able tofinish the round? 
TIGER WOODS:   No.

Q.   How do you explain that you played well, and it looked like the hardest part of your day was getting the ball out of the hole. 
TIGER WOODS:   Well, it was like a section of movement, so it didn't hurt standing up, it didn't hurt at the bottom of a squat, but it was the somewhere in between there it was going to catch.   You know, it would grab just before impact, so you'd kind of expect it, so I could get through that.   I've been through that kind of stuff before, so I know what it feels like. 

Q.   Do you feel like you're right there going into tomorrow? 
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I'm only three back right now, so I'm right there.   This is a very bunched leaderboard.   There are so many guys there.   I think, what, 70‑plus guys within nine shots as of right now.

Q.   Do you remind yourself of '08 at Torrey, that you know how to play like this?
TIGER WOODS:   Well, there's a difference between being in pain and injured.   This is just a little bit of pain.   That was an injury.

Q.   What do you do for treatment, chiropractic?   Take a hot shower?
TIGER WOODS:   We have a fitness van.   I'm going to go there as soon as I'm done with you guys. 

Q.   How about the bed?   Will you get a different bed?
TIGER WOODS:   I'm probably going to sleep on the floor.   I do that in Europe all the time, so this is nothing new.

Q.   Is that a joke?
TIGER WOODS:   True.   True, not a joke.   Did that confuse you? 

Q.   Yeah. 
TIGER WOODS:   Good.   (Smiles.) 

Q.   Do you feel like this is your new normal, that you're never going to have a stretch where you can get through six months or a whole year feeling 100 percent?
TIGER WOODS:   Well, geez, that's been the case since my first surgery in '94.

Q.   This isn't part of the‑‑
TIGER WOODS:   I've been dealing with this stuff since I was 18.   I had my first cut at Stanford in '94. 

Q.   Does it get harder as you get older? 
TIGER WOODS:   Well, it's harder to recover, there's no doubt.   There's no doubt.   But I'm infinitely stronger than I used to be and just as flexible as I used to be, which is very good. 

Q.   Do you have any concern that you won't be able to get this taken care of? 
TIGER WOODS:   No, I'm going to go there right now.   They're good at what they do, and I'll be ready by tomorrow.

Q.   Did the swing feel as good as it looked? 
TIGER WOODS:   That's about all I've got.   I can't hit it any harder than that.   No, it didn't feel very good, but I got it around, and just because the swing didn't feel very good doesn't mean I can't make every putt.   I went out there with that kind of mindset and just buried a bunch of putts.

Q.   Which was the exchange with Zach after your putt on 16?
TIGER WOODS:   Well, we were‑‑ it's an inside joke, but we were jabbing at one another in the fairway.   It just continued.   (Smiles.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT