THE BARCLAYS
August 23, 2012
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Give us some comments on the course is playing.   
TIGER WOODS:   Well, it's still soft, but the green speeds aren't quite as fast.   You know, I shot 3‑under par, and I'm not even in the top 10.   So it's a little different deal.   
   
 Q.   Are you surprised?  
TIGER WOODS:   I am surprised, but then again, we have an extra par‑5.   That makes things‑‑ that makes a big difference, even though most guys probably can't get to 13.   But still, having 7 as a par‑5, Rory and I were‑‑ we drove it down there, we were deciding between 5‑ and 6‑iron.   It's a big difference.   
   
 Q.   How much of it is the course and how much of it is it's not the U.S. Open pressure?  
TIGER WOODS:   No, it's the different pins, too.   They're probably a step and a half easier today than they normally are for an Open.   The USGA likes to obviously push the envelope, especially if it's soft.   They like to get them over in those corners.   
But today they're a little bit easier, and you have a little more room.   You can take a few more chances and go after them.   Even if you short‑side yourself, you have enough room to leave yourself uphill putts, and there were a few times that we took dead aim at pins that we would never do just because I would have an easy uphill putt.  
   
 Q.   Where do you weight Zach and his game?  
TIGER WOODS:   Probably one of the best putters out here.   He drives it usually on a string, and I think with him and Stricks, probably one of the best wedge players out here.   I've seen him win the Masters but never going for a par‑5.   You've got to be good with your wedge game.   That's hallmark of his game.   He did it today, as well, on 13.   He stuffed it in there.  
   
 Q.   Are you satisfied with 3‑under?  
TIGER WOODS:   I'm all right.   I didn't quite hit the ball as well as I would like.   I'm going to do some work this afternoon and work on a couple things that I know I need to shore up for tomorrow.   But very pleased with the way I putted.   I putted great today.   
   
 Q.   Padraig said he started this round thinking it was a U.S. Open and eventually realized that it's a regular TOUR event.   
TIGER WOODS:   You know, as I said, looking at the pin sheet before we played, I was surprised that some of the pins, how much easier they were, because we're used to seeing them tucked over there three or four from the side or up against the back sides or just over ridges.   They gave us plenty of room, and when you get soft greens like this with plenty of room, the guys are going to tear it apart.  
   
 Q.   You and Rory seemed to be doing quite a bit of talking.   What was the most enjoyable part of being out there with him?  
TIGER WOODS:   He's a nice kid, he really is.   As I said yesterday in the press, I played with him in Abu Dhabi.   We struck up a friendship back then, and it's continued, and I think it's only going to get better.  
   
 Q.   You talked yesterday about usually being the younger guy in pairings with Vijay and Ernie.   How different is it being the older guy?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, certainly it's changed.   With Rory and then obviously Ryo, as well, when he first came over from Japan, winning golf tournaments at 16 and 17 and then coming over here, I think that dynamic has shifted.   I've been out here enough years now that I think I might be past the stage of a vet, getting more towards grizzled.   But I've been out here long enough where generations are going to start changing now.  
   
 Q.   Obviously nothing that's not a major is like a major.   Was this a little extra more than a regular tournament?  
TIGER WOODS:   It seems like more than a regular TOUR event obviously, but just look at the field.   I think it's not quite the same atmosphere as a U.S. Open.   We didn't have the same amount of people.   But I'm sure by the weekend it'll build up and be pretty loud and boisterous again.  
   
 Q.   You didn't get any standing ovations coming out of the Port‑a‑Potty today?  
TIGER WOODS:   I got a few claps, though, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT