PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2012
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you got yourself back in it?  
TIGER WOODS:   Absolutely.   I'm right there.   I was at one point six back, and we had a lot of holes to play, so I was very encouraged the way I dug down deep and got this thing turned around and gave myself a chance going into this afternoon.   
   
 Q.   How frustrating was it to have three good looks coming in?  
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I had a few good looks at it today, and I just couldn't believe how slow these greens were this morning.   I don't know if they cut them or not, but they were just a lot slower.   They're slower than the putting green.   Vijay and I were talking about that a little bit today, and it was surprising that they're not the same speed.   We both struggled getting the balls to the hole.   
   
 Q.   With these conditions do you feel like you're going to have to play aggressively?   
TIGER WOODS:   You know, just give myself chances, give myself looks.   This golf course you can take a double and a triple in a heartbeat without hitting bad shots.   Just keep myself there where I'm right in it with a few holes to go because, as we saw at the last major championship we played, anything can happen.   
   
 Q.   The stoppage of play yesterday, did it give you a chance to kind of reset?  
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, a little bit.   Unfortunately I missed the putt, so it didn't really do much.   I figured the goal was to just come back out here and get to even par for the day, somehow grind it out and get back to even par, and I had it to I was 1‑over par with two holes to go and dropped a shot at 17.   But I played myself back into the tournament.   
   
 Q.   What happened at 15?   Was there something that jumped up on you?   
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, it got in both legs‑‑ well, left shoe, right shoe, and then in my right leg.   I was telling Tim over there it itched like hell for about a hole, and then it was gone.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
TIGER WOODS:   I don't know.   Couldn't tell you.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
TIGER WOODS:   No, I told you, it itched like hell for about a hole, and it was fine.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT