PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2012
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Does it just boil down to the first eight holes yesterday?   
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, absolutely.   I was right there, and I was telling Peter over there, that I came out with probably the wrong attitude yesterday.   And I was too relaxed, and tried to enjoy it, and that's not how I play.   I play intense and full systems go.   That cost me.   
   
 Q.   Is that something you're consciously trying to change, because the weekends‑‑  
TIGER WOODS:   I was just trying to‑‑ I was trying to enjoy it, enjoy the process of it.   But that's not how I play.   I play full systems go, all‑out, intense, and that's how I won 14 of these things.   
You know, that's something I rectified today, and I played a lot better because of it.   
   
 Q.   You have worked so hard to get yourself into contention in the majors, three off the four majors this year‑‑ what's the difference and how do you explain?   
TIGER WOODS:   The thing is, to keep putting myself there.   I'm not going to win them all and I haven't won them all.   So I certainly have lost a lot more than I've won.   But the key is putting myself there each and every time, and you know, I'll start getting them again.   So we got a lot of golf to be played the rest of the year, some big events coming up and The Ryder Cup at the end of it.   So looking forward to that.  
   
 Q.   You said you changed your mental approach to enjoy a little more yesterday; why would you change, when you know how to get it done and you've done it so many times before?  
TIGER WOODS:   I was just trying to be, you know, a little bit happy out there and enjoy it, and that's‑‑ unfortunately‑‑ that's not how I play.   You know how I am.   I'm intense and I'm focused on what I'm doing and nothing else matters.   I got back to that today and I hit some really good shots and I played the way that I know I can play.  
   
 Q.   Where does that notion come from, to try to change?   
TIGER WOODS:   I don't know.   I don't know.   It was a‑‑ it was a bad move on my part.   
   
 Q.   How would you assess your game overall?   You putted great the first two days, maybe not so good on the front nine yesterday but you seemed to get it back.   
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I putted really well today.   Had the speed good.   Unfortunately I just didn't give myself enough good looks.   For some reason I kept calling Joey in on a lot of my putts today because they were double‑breaking putts.   The first couple days, every putt just seemed easy.   No double‑breakers, and it was just I had the ball in the right spots.   Even though it was windy, I always had the ball in the right spots.   The last couple of days for some reason, it was, okay, this ball is going two or three different ways.   Just the way it goes.  
   
 Q.   Rory has now just won two before he turns 23 years of age; how good is he?  
TIGER WOODS:   He's very good.   We all know the talent he has.   He went through a little spell this year, and I think that was good for him.   We all go through those spells in our careers, and you know, he's got all the talent in the world to do what he's doing.   And this is the way that Rory can play.   When he gets it going, it's pretty impressive to watch.   
   
 Q.   Sustained greatness‑‑ how do you sustain that type of play at such a young age‑‑  
TIGER WOODS:   You just do it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT