PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2012
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  TIGER WOODS:   It was tough out there, wow.   You can't take anything for granted, simple tap‑in is not a simple tap in.   The putter is oscillating all over the place and the ball is oscillating and you know, you have to make an adjustment, at least I was on my down swing and my putts, because the putter is being blown all over the place.   
And you know, it's a tough day.   I mean, your start lines, Holy Cow, we are starting balls so far off line, to have it comeback in.   There's so much drift to this wind.   
It was just a tough day.  
   
 Q.   What pleased you most?  
TIGER WOODS:   I just grinded.   I just grinded my way around this golf course.   It was a day in which‑‑ it would be great if we could utilize the ground and run the ball up, but that's gone.   Paspalum fairways and with this much rain, that's no longer in the equation.   And then it would be nice to bump‑and‑run it around the greens, too, to keep it out of the wind but we can't do that either because it's just too sticky.   
It's a golf course in which it's seaside, linksy‑type, but you've got to throw the ball up in the air.   With this wind and the way it's blowing and the way it's moving the golf ball, it's tough.  
   
 Q.   How do you grade your performance in these conditions?  
TIGER WOODS:   I'm very pleased.   I'm very pleased to be able to shoot under par today.   That was the goal, anything par or better today was going to be a great score, and I was able to accomplish that.   
   
 Q.   How do you play paspalum greens differently?   
TIGER WOODS:   Well, they are tricky to read because they are so straight.   They don't break much.   And it's different.   I'm sure there's a lot of guys making a lot of putts out there, but there's no grain.   That's also another thing, too, is that we are accustomed to putting in the south like this, and you expect grain, but there's really no grain here.   
   
 Q.   What gives you confidence‑‑  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I've been here before.   You know, I've been in this position many times over my career, and again, we are just at the halfway point.   We have a long way to go.   I don't know the forecast, I haven't looked at the forecast for tomorrow, but if it's anything like it was today, it's going to be tough.   
   
 Q.   Does the length of the rounds affect you?  
TIGER WOODS:   Just over 5 1/2; it was a long day.   We knew that going in when we got delayed 20 minutes before we teed off, at least the front nine guys were delayed 20.   And then we thought as we were playing 1, we saw a group go by behind the No. 1 green and hit their tee shots and we thought, okay, great, everything is good.   
Walked out, 20 minutes, we finish 1, go up on the tee and there is the next group right in front of us.   It was going to be one of those long days.  
   
 Q.   You seem to be very comfortable off the tee.   Can you speak to that please?  
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I'm swinging it well.   The thing is, is that all year my strength has been my driving, actually.   People probably don't think, so but the stats, that's what they are.   I've been driving the ball well all year, and I've been putting streaky all year.   
Finally I've married the two together, and it's working out.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT