WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 2, 2012
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Up‑and‑down day.   Just talk about it as a whole. 
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I hit it good today.   Unfortunately once I got to the greens, probably I think I averaged about four putts per hole, so it was a great day on the greens. 

Q.   You hit the ball so well, but at the end of the day does it mentally wear on you?   Does it affect the way you finish? 
TIGER WOODS:   Well, just keep going.   I was 3‑under par.   I mean, that's not that bad.   At the time I was three back of the lead and hadn't made a thing.   I thought that was a good sign.   Unfortunately finished awful, and here we are. 

Q.   Anything you put that on, putting?
TIGER WOODS:   Absolutely. 

Q.   To what do you attribute the big change in greens you've been dealing with‑‑
TIGER WOODS:   No, I just hit bad putts today.   I hit bad putts.   My speed was off.   The putts that I pured, I didn't make.   And then the bad putts didn't have a chance. 

Q.   You hit a ton of greens and you hit your driver pretty well.   How satisfied were you with the ball‑striking overall?
TIGER WOODS:   Oh, we made some good changes here, and I felt like today I was‑‑ it was good.   I was launching it out there.   I was hitting some good drives.   Ball was carrying.   I was shaping it both ways, which was good.   I hit a lot of good iron shots, as well. 

Q.   Did you enjoy playing with Branden today?
TIGER WOODS:   I did.   I did.   He's a really nice kid.   We were talking about some of the tournaments he's played in this year or going to be playing in later in the year.   Yeah, you can see how he's done well.   He's a little‑‑ he hits it a long way.   I mean, if he turns it over, he can get it out there with some of the longer guys.   If he's driving it well, the golf courses are all going to be short for him.

Q.   Do you just chalk it up to a bad day putting and you move on?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I'm just going to go out and hit a few balls, reinforce what we're doing, and definitely going to putt a while and work on a few things. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT