THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2012
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What about the round today?  
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, it wasnot a very good start.   I fought back and just didn't get anything going on that back nine.   I thought I had a couple of good looks at some putts and didn't make them and misread the putt there at 15.   But even par is about right.  
   
 Q.   What do you think about the conditions, though, that could have been so much better in that respect?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, considering that I got off to such a bad start, I figured if I could get to 1‑over par or even for the day through the turn, that would have been positive going into the back nine.  
And I actually happened to turn at 1‑under for the day, which was a bonus.   And as I said, I had a few looks on that back nine, just didn't make them.  
   
 Q.   As you were going along on that back nine, was getting in the final pair on your radar?  
TIGER WOODS:   I was just trying to cut into the lead.   Final pairing, whatever it may be, just trying to cut into that lead.   At the time‑‑ the majority of the day I was four and five back, if not more at times.   And it ended up being five at the end.  
   
 Q.   7 you hit a driver there and changed the game plan there, made a nice birdie.   Is there a reason for that?   
TIGER WOODS:   Is it was downwind today so I knew I could reach.   Yesterday with the wind the way it was and the shot shape that I was going to try and play, to try and take something off the driver to get it into play, I didn't think I could carry the cross bunker after a good drive.   So there was really no point in taking the chance.  
So today was a day that it was downwind.   I know I could hit driver down there and hit an iron with the cross bunkers, if not a wood.   And it ended up being a 4‑iron today.  
   
 Q.   We know how much you like these majors.   Tomorrow you're in the competition during the race.   How do you separate trying so hard but not changing your game?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I've just got to execute my game plan.   We'll see what the forecast‑‑ I know the forecast is one thing, but let's see what actually happens.   But whether the wind blows or not, I've still got to go out there and post the round that I know I need to post and execute my plan.  
   
 Q.   Why do you think most guys are rooting for the wind right now?   They want it to be British Open like.   
TIGER WOODS:   Well, we're just so accustomed to it playing over here.   And it's one of the things that we actually expect to happen.   And there have been a few years, the years that I've played, that it hasn't blown.   One of those years happened to be in 2000 where the majority of the guys were, what, 8, 9 plus under par.   So it can be in a dome like it is here right now, and it can blow like it did that year at Birkdale or at Muirfield in '02.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
TIGER WOODS:   Whatever happens, happens.   I've just got to go out there and execute my game plan.   I know we can't rely on the weather forecasts around here.   They've been wrong all week.  
   
 Q.   What kind of number do you need tomorrow?  
TIGER WOODS:   As I said, I don't know.   It all depends on what happens and the conditions.   But in either case, I just have to go out and execute my plan.  
   
 Q.   Any frustration of not taking advantage of the par‑5s?  
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, just one of those things, you know?   I buried a couple and made one mistake there.   There are plenty of opportunities out there besides the par‑5s.   I've had a bunch of 9‑irons on down into some of these flags.   And those are the holes you also have to birdie, as well.  
   
 Q.   What's the best thing out of this round?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I turned it around.   I got off to an awful start and battled back and got myself right back in the mix again going into tomorrow, and I'm right there.  
   
 Q.   Do you like your position right now overall relative to everybody?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, it is what it is.   I'm at 5, I'm five back.   So Adam is in a great spot right now, he's got a four‑shot lead and he's playing really well.   He's going for his first major title.   So he's in a very good spot.   
   
 Q.   You've known Adam for a long time.   Are you surprised it's been this long for him without a major?  
TIGER WOODS:   I think so.   I mean he's‑‑ what is he 32 or something like that?   He's been out here a long time.   And he's won a PLAYERS Championship, but, you know, I don't think he's really doneprobably as well as he'd like to in major championships.   But I think that he's maturing in his game, and I think over the last maybe year or so he's really improved his game.   
   
 Q.   Would you have hoped to play in the last group tomorrow?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I'm not.   So it is what it is.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT