AT&T NATIONAL
June 30, 2012
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Fair to say that was a little different than anything you've experienced out here?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, you know, I was telling Steve O there when I play a practice round it's the same kind of atmosphere, but it's a competitive round and it don't change anything.   I still have to hit the same shots and I've got to execute.   I was five back to start the day, and I got to where I was two back, and I think I'm one back now.

Q.   When was the last time you played a competitive round with so few people in the gallery?
TIGER WOODS:   Well, it's usually after you don't finish on Sunday.   We have to go back out at‑‑ let's say the course is closed and the spectators had a dangerous atmosphere and were sent home, and we have to come out and finish up a few holes.   That's the only time.   Other than that, it's usually a lot more crowded than this.

Q.   Can you think of a regular day like this, or can you even remember it's been so long?
TIGER WOODS:   It's been a while.

Q.   Do you find you draw energy off a crowd, and on a day like today there's something missing?
TIGER WOODS:   The quick answer would be yes, but I found that I didn't feel that way, just because I was five back starting the day, trying to fight my way back into the tournament, and that's what I was focused on.   Making a birdie at 1 and 3, whether there was applause or not, now I'm only three back, and let's just keep chipping away at it.   That was my focus. 
It might have been a little bit louder on 6 when I holed that shot rather than 20 people clapping.

Q.   Walk us through that chip on 6. 
TIGER WOODS:   Middle of the fairway, just a perfect little shot.   I had 100 yards to clear the bunker, and I was going to hit a low 60 in there and just get over the bunker, and it skipped up to the top, and just hit an awful shot, clipped it and hit it left.   I drew a decent lie, not a great lie, and I was just trying to leave myself a putt, just throw it up there and somehow keep it on the top shelf.   If I can leave it on the top shelf, I can make it, and it went in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT