U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2012
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Pretty clean today.   
TIGER WOODS:   I played well today.   I felt like I had control of my game all day and just stuck to my game plan and executed my game plan.  
   
 Q.   The current Masters champion just said that the old Tiger was back today and he described watching you as a beautiful thing to watch.   How does that make you feel?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I was just trying to execute my game plan.   That was all I was trying to do today and I did that.   
Made a couple changes out there because the wind had shifted and the fairways were faster and so it was, we knew it was going to get quick as the week progressed, but we didn't think it was going to happen overnight.   
I was really really surprised at how much it had changed from last night or from yesterday.   We teed off the same time yesterday and it wasn't that bad.   Come out here today and it's just like they used sub air on the whole place and it was just quick.   And we had to make the adjustments and I felt like I did that today.   
   
 Q.   How pleased are you with this round?  
TIGER WOODS:   Very pleased.   I had a good game plan going in and I executed all the way through and ended up with a score under par.   Which was nice.   
   
 Q.   The game plan was just fairways and greens?   Are the greens playing as tough as advertised?   The first six holes.   Talk about those holes.   
TIGER WOODS:   I had turned, got to back to even par, which was nice and then to I stuffed it there at 2 and missed a short one.   
Hit a really nice shot at 3 and got a horrible bounce.   Ended up in just a tough spot.   And was able to save par there.  
Then made a two good shots there at 4.   No big deal.   
5 was a fluke.   That putt was off the green.   And even though the pin was back right.   So it was one of those ‑‑ it was a weird hole today the way it was playing.   It was so fast and the wind was coming over the right, it was hard to hold the fairway.   So we, well Phil and I laid back, Bubba took driver over the top, but when you lay back that far you got a long iron to a green that's not receptive.   I did the best I could to keep it on the green and left myself a tough putt.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel like you had everything going or was there room left in the bag for improvement over the rest of the week?  
TIGER WOODS:   No, I felt very pleased with every facet of my game today and I stayed very patient out there and as I said, I was very pleased how I executed my game plan.   
   
 Q.   When did you start feeling that way about the game plan?  
TIGER WOODS:   It changes from day‑to‑day.   As I played it more, obviously we don't get a chance to play here when it's this quick.   When I played here in college it was certainly not like this.   So we had to make those type of adjustments and I've been around here enough times to understand it.   
   
 Q.   So this morning did you wake up this morning and write it down the game plan?  
TIGER WOODS:   I don't write anything down.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT