THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
June 3, 2012
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   This is kind of a little bit old school today, two down with four holes to play and you pull out three birdies.   Tell us about your day.   
TIGER WOODS:   Boy, I hit it good today.   That was some good stuff out there.   I never really missed a shot today.   It was just, as Sean likes to say, good out there and put on a stripe show, and I did today.   I hit it great, and I had the pace of the greens really nice today, where I struggled yesterday, and made a few putts.  
   
 Q.   Take us through that‑‑ there's nothing else to call it but sick shot.   I gave you a degree of difficulty of double what you had on 14 a few years back when you holed it out from over that green.   How would you rate that shot?  
TIGER WOODS:   It was a lot harder than that.   The only thing about 14, it was softer here.   It had rained, and I was able to hit that shot with‑‑ it was a tough shot, but still, it left a ball mark.   This thing was‑‑ you know, if I leave it short, it's going to either roll down and left.   If I hit it long, it's going to be in the water.   The lie wasn't all that great; that was the hard part.   If I had a good lie, then it wouldn't have been so bad.   But I had to take a cut at it because the lie wasn't as great.   It came out just perfect.  
   
 Q.   Yesterday I talked to you about your 73rd PGA TOUR victory, which is now official.   You tied Jack Nicklaus.   You begged off the question yesterday because you were focused on four back and all the work you had to do.   What does it mean to you now that it's done?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, it's been pretty nice.   It's been a nice run since I've turned pro, and to do it at age 36, it's not too shabby.   I've been very proud of what I've done so far, and I feel like I've got a lot of good years ahead of me.  
   
 Q.   How does this set up for you for Olympic now?  
TIGER WOODS:   I'm excited because of the way I hit the golf ball this week.   I hit the ball really well.   At Olympic we're all going to have to hit the ball great there.   That golf course, you can look at the history of guys who were in contention or who ended up winning, all were wonderful drivers of the golf ball and good, solid iron players.   That's what it's going to take there at Olympic, more so than most U.S. Open sites.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
TIGER WOODS:   I hit the ball great today.   That's what was so exciting about today is I didn't really miss a golf shot today.   I hit the ball just as good as I have in years.   That was fun when I needed it the most.  
   
 Q.   Talk about that shot at 16.   
TIGER WOODS:   Well, it was a tough shot, there's no doubt, because if I leave it short, it's going to roll down left, and if I hit it long, it's in the water.   What made the shot more difficult was the lie.   
   
 Q.   You're going to tie Jack's record.   How does that make you feel?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, it's special.   I was telling Peter, to do it at age 36 is not too shabby.   Something I'm very proud of, and to do it here with Jack watching on the last hole‑‑ I think he was watching.   He was there as I walked off the green, but I had some work to do.   It was nice to see Jack there.   He means a lot to all of us as players, and we all looked up to him, and he's the greatest champion that's ever lived.  
   
 Q.   We know you were fighting the flu all week.   How did you feel today?  
TIGER WOODS:   My fever broke last night, so it was good to have happen finally.   Two days of it where it just didn't break, and last night it finally broke, and today I felt a lot better.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT