BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2019
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Can we get some comments on your round, 1-under par today?  
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, it was -- I made quite a few mistakes around the green and didn't chip it, didn't make that many putts, and consequently ended up at 1-under.   
 Q.  You started off really, really well but then missed a couple of greens with wedges in your hand.  Do you feel like that part of your game is the most rusty?  
TIGER WOODS: Well, it's just not sharp.  I'm trying to make changes in my swing, and it's just not quite there yet.  And so it's just one of those things.  I need reps, and I just haven't really put in a lot of reps.   
 Q.  What are the changes that you're making?  
TIGER WOODS: Trying to change my plane a little bit, trying to get back to how I kind of had it at Augusta.  It was working pretty good there.   
 Q.  Overall are you pleased with how you feel, though?  It looked a lot different than last Thursday.  
TIGER WOODS: Without a doubt.  I didn't feel any tightness in my oblique at all, so that was a positive, and I just need to clean up my rounds and get going.  Seems like the whole field is under par.  The golf course is soft.  Even though it's long, it's just gettable.   
 Q.  Were you surprised by the low numbers today?  
TIGER WOODS: You know, when I got out here, I thought probably 5 or 6 would be leading, but once I got on the golf course and felt how soft the greens were, it's like, hey, we've got to go.  We've got to make birdies.   
 Q.  How do you feel going into tomorrow?  
TIGER WOODS: As I said, I made too many little mistakes around the greens.  I had a three-putt and had a couple up-and-downs I should have made and missed a few putts I have been making, and I need to make them.  As I said, the whole field seems like it's under par, and we just didn't do it today.   
 Q.  Do you feel like if you just do some of those little things tomorrow --  
TIGER WOODS: Well, I'm going to have to.  I'm going to have to make a lot of birdies.  You know the whole -- there's so many guys under par that I'm going to have to shoot some low rounds just to get back in it.   
 Q.  Was last night the most nervous you've ever seen Joey?  
TIGER WOODS: I would say not nervous was probably the word.  I would say more like uncomfortable, because that's not -- he doesn't like to be part of the spotlight in that regard.  He'll do Q & A's and have fun with that, but for him to be recognized for what he does, he's very uncomfortable with that because this is what he loves to do, and it's just part of it.  He's done it for 30 years, and that's just his life, and to be recognized for that, he felt a little uneasy about it, but he did a hell of a job.  It was fun, and the stories were great.  The guys who were there, the caddies that have been around with him for a long period of time, it was pretty cool.   
 Q.  I wonder if that -- how his lack of comfort in the spotlight is part of what makes him such a good caddie.  
TIGER WOODS: Well, what makes him such a great caddie for -- I know for me, is that he's so competitive.  He's very fiery.  He wants to win.  He's out there to win.  He works his butt off to be prepared, to have the books ready, to have -- he's had to adjust over time because he's worked with Fred when Fred was starting to get a little bit shorter, and then all of a sudden he works with DJ who hits it nine miles, and I'm kind of somewhere in between.   
 Q.  The part of your game that you're happiest with after today?  
TIGER WOODS: I think probably the way I felt with the driver, even though I pulled a couple today.  But just the fact that I was able to hit it and it felt good, the fact that I was able to make the proper swing and hit some of the shots, I was a little bit uneasy about that because I hadn't done it.  I did it on the range a little bit yesterday.  I hit a few drives yesterday for nine holes, but how was it going to hold up when I had to hit shots.  It's a totally different deal, as you know, when you have to hit shots.   
 Q.  On 9 what did you use from the rough over there?  
TIGER WOODS: I had 156 to the front, and I hit a 4-iron, just a big carping cut, and from there I three-putted nicely (laughter).   
 Q.  Would it be better for you this week just in view of trying to think about next week, if the course were playing harder so you don't have to go so low?  
TIGER WOODS: It's one of those things where if it's soft, the fact that you can get away with more things, but then again, so can the other 69 guys.  If you make a mistake, the greens are soft enough that you can get away with it.  But I had my opportunities to shoot a good -- between 3 and 5-under par today, and that was probably a pretty good score, considering how I hit it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT