THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2012
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tiger, seems to be hard to be getting off to a good start obviously today.   
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, it wasn't certainly the most positive start.   Any kind of momentum that I would build, I would shoot myself in the foot on the very next hole.   
Just one of those days.   
   
 Q.   So often you're able to take advantage of par‑5s in terms of scoring with consistency.   What's been the challenge with that?  
TIGER WOODS:   I don't know, for some reason it's just been one of those weird deals.   Out here you have to take care of the par‑5s.   I mean, where most of the guys are long enough where week‑in and week‑out you can get to most of the par‑5s, and that usually determines how you finish in a tournament.   
And consequently I haven't done a very good job of it, I really haven't, lately.   I certainly need to do a better job of that.  
   
 Q.   Was it a continuation of what you struggled with recently, Quail Hollow and the Masters, or just not scoring?  
TIGER WOODS:   I just didn't score.   I hit three decent shots in there and just got some of the worst lies.   The best shot I hit all day was on 3, and ended up in a spot where I really couldn't play from.   
It was frustrating in the sense that my good shots ended up in bad spots, and obviously my bad shots ended up in worse spots.  
   
 Q.   You got caught by a click there?  
TIGER WOODS:   We do that every week out here now.   Now the cameras are loud, people just don't put it on silent.   Guys were backing off; they got Hunter a couple times today and Rickie once, I believe.  
   
 Q.   What happened with the second shot on 11, simply hitting it fat?  
TIGER WOODS:   I was in between clubs.   If I hit 3, then I know I'm not going to probably hold that green.   And 4, I have to hammer it just to get to the front edge.  
   
 Q.   So you hit a 4?  
TIGER WOODS:   I slammed that 4 as hard as I could hit it, and I hit the big ball first and then the little ball.  
   
 Q.   You said earlier in the week that you can't fake it out here.   Does that mean you have to grind over every shot or can you free‑wheel it occasionally?  
TIGER WOODS:   I think if you're playing well‑‑ if you drive the ball well here, you can get after some of these flags because they funnel into some of the low areas.   We had quite a few pins where you could do that.   
You know, obviously some of the guys went low today.   I think Poults is what, 7‑under or something like that right now?   You can shoot a round in the 60s today.   That certainly can be had out there.   
This weekend is going to be a different deal, I think, with the weather forecast coming in.   It's going to get really, really difficult.  
   
 Q.   Looked like you had some trouble with some of the finesse parts of the game, maybe wedges where you have to take a little something off, chip shots and getting the ball to the hole.   Has that been a little slower to kind of come along, or is that just hit and miss, depending?  
TIGER WOODS:   Just one of those days today.   Just today.  
   
 Q.   How was your warm‑up?  
TIGER WOODS:   I hit it good.   I hit it really good.  
   
 Q.   It seems that bridge between coming from the range to the first tee‑‑ what's going on there?   
TIGER WOODS:   It's golf.   
   
 Q.   How do you deal with it?  
TIGER WOODS:   Just be patient with it.   Just keep plugging along.   You know, obviously in the last few months, I've put together some good rounds; won a couple tournaments.   
So it's there, I just need to continue doing it.  
   
 Q.   That pin at 17, where do you rate that, as easy or difficult?   
TIGER WOODS:   Well, today the tee was up.   I don't remember the tee being up that far to that pin.   It's a different pin.   We don't really see that pin to the front right.   Front left, yes, but the front right is a different one.   I think it's only 125 today, so it's short.   
But you know, you've got a backboard back there where you can hit it 15 feet all day, but if you want to take a run at it, you bring water into play.  
   
 Q.   Were you talking about spectator cameras?  
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   What's your feeling on that just in general?   Do you wish they weren't allowed?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, the bigger the galleries are, obviously the more people you have, and now where these people can use them‑‑ we don't mind it, it's just put it on silent.   It's not that hard.   But they don't.   And it's gotten‑‑ it can cost guys tournaments, because a shot on Thursday is the same as a shot on Sunday.   So it's one of the difficult things about it.   
   
 Q.   Talk about tomorrow.   You're probably going to have to put something in the 60s together tomorrow in the afternoon, a little bit tougher here.   What do you do between now and then?  
TIGER WOODS:   I'm going to go eat.  
   
 Q.   That'll help.   
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, and then I'm going to practice a little bit and work on it a little bit and be ready for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   The wind sort of built up as the round went on for you.   It seemed like the front was kind of the time when you could get this course.   How much of a missed opportunity‑‑  
TIGER WOODS:   Absolutely.   You look, some of the guys were 5‑under at the turn.   They were hammering this golf course.   The wind popped up, and not a lot of guys did a lot after that.   But it's just one of those things where you've got to take advantage of it while you can.   The greens were soft in the morning and now they're starting to firm up.   The rough turns in from where you can't really get to the green to all of a sudden you can catch a flier pretty easily.   So there's that little transition time.   
But in the afternoon pretty much every ball is going to be flying.   With this weekend weather we've got coming in here and the wind forecasted, it's going to be a difficult weekend.   
   
 Q.   D.A. pulled out on the first tee after his name was announced and ultimately Brian Harman was the alternate into the field.   Having pulled out of this event last year, what's the call you have to make to decide to go to the first tee?   
TIGER WOODS:   That's all on the person.   You try and go, and if you can't go, you can't go.   I don't know the exact situation that happened there, but the only time I've ever heard someone tee off and then withdraw was probably, what, Robert Allenby did it at Valderrama or something like that, he just hit a putter off the tee and withdrew because that got him into the Masters or something, whatever it was, just by teeing off.  
   
 Q.   Overall would you say you played okay today, or how would you describe your overall play today?  
TIGER WOODS:   I didn't get a lot out of that round.   It should have been probably 1‑ or 2‑under par.   
   
 Q.   Do you think "Babydoll" sticks as a nickname?   
TIGER WOODS:   For you?   No.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT