MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2012
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What's going on from Bay Hill to now?   What's happened?   
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I've been working hard on my short game, and I think that what Sean and I have been talking about is I think that might have crept into my takeaway of my full swing, and unfortunately it's just not quite consistent.   It's not what it was at Bay Hill and prior tournaments.   
I have it in stretches.   I get into streaks where it's really good and then I lose it for a little bit.   That's obviously very frustrating.  
   
 Q.   Obviously your frustration boiled over there on 16.   Can you just talk about that?   That might have been the point it got to you the most?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, it's a simple 9‑iron.   It's not that hard.   Just a three quarter 9‑iron, hold it against the slope.   It's a very easy golf shot, and I hit just a‑‑ I laid the shaft down and stuck it to the right just like I did on 15.   I had a 4‑iron in there, and‑‑ the 4‑iron probably ticked me off more than the 9‑iron because I can hit that ball 50 yards left of that flag and still be fine, but the only thing I can't do is put it right of the hole, and what do I do, I put it right of the hole.   So that was very frustrating.  
   
 Q.   The challenge of maintaining the patience, can you talk about just staying focused and that challenge?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I think that just comes with understanding how to play.   I've been around the block for a number of years, and I understand how to be patient, I understand how to grind it out, and the tournament is not over.   Last year I think on the final round I made up seven shots.   I can do this.   I've just got to be patient.   Obviously I've got to cut that deficit down tomorrow with a good, solid round and then got off to a quick start on the front nine on Sunday and see where that puts me.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel right now?   
TIGER WOODS:   I feel hungry.   
   
 Q.   You said the swing is a work in progress.   How confident are you to be able to correct that?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, I know what to do, it's just a matter of doing it.   That's the frustrating part because I'm still creeping into my old tendencies.   I've just got to stay patient with it and keep doing the reps and eventually it'll become where it's second nature.  
   
 Q.   Did this come out of nowhere?   Was this not happening when you were practicing last week?   
TIGER WOODS:   It was happening just a little bit ‑‑ even at Bay Hill it was happening, but I was able to rectify it and maybe hit one or two shots like that and then straighten it out and be fine.   Here unfortunately it's just carrying over to more than that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT