MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2012
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Some good putting today.   You are probably happy with the score?
TIGER WOODS:   You know what, I could have probably maybe got one, maybe two more out of that but that was about it.   Today I squeezed a lot out of that round.   Didn't hit it very good at all. 
Warmed up bad, too, and it continued on the golf course.   I just felt my way around today.   I really grinded, stayed very present.   And you know, I know how to play this golf course.   I think it's just understanding what I need to do. 
Like I was saying earlier to those guys down there, the only interesting pin today, a new one was 11.   I have never seen it that far away from the water.   It was in the middle of the green.   It's usually tucked up against the edge, maybe about four or five.   I think it's like seven or eight today.

Q.   Did you have a problem getting it off the tee today?
TIGER WOODS:   Same old motor patterns.   Now I'm struggling with it all the way around with all the clubs.   I need to go do some work.

Q.   Old Hank backswing, basically?
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah.   The Hank backswing was the new downswing.

Q.   You said you had some issues on the range.   Did that surprise you and make you uncomfortable going to the first tee? 
TIGER WOODS:   Absolutely.   Absolutely.   I didn't warm up well.   I hit a few loose ones, but I said just stay committed.   Whatever happens, just stay committed on each and every shot.   I did that.   I really stayed committed to what I was doing.   I made some bad swings.   That's fine.   My commitment to each and every shot, what I was doing, my alignment, my setup, everything was something that I'm excited about and I can take some positives going into tomorrow about that.   Granted, it might be late tomorrow, but at least I have something to build on.

Q.   Are you going to go to the range to work on ‑‑
TIGER WOODS:   As soon as I'm done with you guys, absolutely.

Q.   Any mud balls today? 
TIGER WOODS:   We got three today, three pretty good ones.   Two turned out different and one turned out pretty good.   I had one on 11 that was pin high, which was good.   It was on its way over 12 tee, but came back. 
The one on 7 was a joke.   I don't know.   I cut that and it hooked about 20 yards. 
And then the one on 5 was the same thing.   It was a draw that ended up slicing on me, ended up going to the back edge of the green. 

Q.   You didn't shoot your way out of it; you are still right there?
TIGER WOODS:   No.   I mean, this golf course is playing too difficult to go super low on.   What Henrick was doing early, that was pretty impressive.   Some of these pins are really tough.   No one was tearing it up. 
When I went to the putting green, I stopped in the clubhouse and took a look at the scores and there was only one person under par at the time.   So this golf course was very difficult. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT