ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 22, 2012
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  TIGER WOODS:   It was a day I didn't really do anything great today.   I was just solid all day.   I drove the ball well.   Hit my irons decent and putted all right.   I had two 3‑putts, but also made a couple bombs out there.   It's just one of those days where not a lot going on.   
   
 Q.   You shoot 3‑under 69, not doing anything great, is that a good sign for you going forward‑‑  
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, two 3‑putts, shoot 5‑under par without hitting it real close, didn't really hit any balls real close today.   I took something off most of my drives today.   I didn't really feel great with my tee shots but I was getting the ball in play.   Ball is flying forever.   Normal drives go about 310 or something like that.   It was kind of nice.   
   
 Q.   Is that something you guys have been working on?  
TIGER WOODS:   I'm in a position where I can hit it again.   That's something that's been missing for a while.   I feel that I can go ahead and hit that shot if called for, and it's a nice little safety shot to have.  
   
 Q.   Overall body of work the last couple of weeks, are you driving the ball as well as you have in a long time?  
TIGER WOODS:   Absolutely.   
   
 Q.   What's happening there?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, it's all the work that Sean and I have put together.   I've got the club in a position where I can do that.   I haven't had that for a very long time.   
   
 Q.   Question thought it was seven rounds in a row, but turns out most likely eight rounds‑‑ inaudible ‑‑ how do you feel and how much is it in your mind at all?   
TIGER WOODS:   Not in my mind at all.   I'm just out there playing.   I'm feeling good.   I've been getting treatment.   Everything's good.   No swelling.   If I can just keep it that way, everything will be great.  
   
 Q.   How much does your familiarity with this place‑‑ inaudible ‑‑ your preparation going out and playing today?  
TIGER WOODS:   It's not like I play here all the time.   I play here basically five times a year.   For some reason, just fits my eye.   Ever since the U.S. Junior, granted, they have changed this place but I don't know why, it just fits.   I feel comfortable coming around here, hitting shots, shaping it.   The greens, like we were talking about today, are a little more grainy than usual, a little more grass on them.   That's a little bit of a change but with this heat they should dry out by the weekend.  
   
 Q.   You said yesterday that you went up to Augusta.   How was it?   What was the course like?  
TIGER WOODS:   You know, Bobby, it was typical Augusta non‑championship week.   It's a little bit slower, a little bit more wet.   You know, we caught a bunch of mud balls out there that day.   It played really long.   Granted, come tournament time, as you know, it changes from Wednesday to Thursday.   We play practice rounds all the way up until tournament time and it changes.   They use that SubAir system and it changes things.  
   
 Q.   Do you enjoy it?   Is it a nice thing to get to go there, or is it work?  
TIGER WOODS:   It's both.   Both.   They made some changes out there and I wanted to understand what those changes are and do some charting out there, which was good.   But it's just nice to go up there.   
I took Joey with me and he's never been without any grandstands or any people.   He couldn't believe some of the‑‑ it just looks so different when you walk out there and it's not‑‑ the lines look different.   He was amazed by that.   
   
 Q.   Play with anyone?  
TIGER WOODS:   Just by myself out there.  
   
 Q.   The 3‑putts, any adjustments you can make?  
TIGER WOODS:   Just had bad speed on those putts, bad speed.   That's something that I have to concentrate on and after‑‑ unfortunately after I did it, I started focusing more on it, and then I got a little lackadaisical on the par5, tried to make eagle.   
I did focus on it, I just need to be more committed.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about Ernie, how close he is to playing well, winning again, and obviously wanting to get back to the Masters again?  
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, Ernie is playing better.   I think he's been hitting it pretty good.   It's just making a few putts at the right time.   Today he putted a little better, and it was good to see.  
   
 Q.   The Masters without Ernie there, he's been there 18 straight years, will it be different not having him there?  
TIGER WOODS:   It's the same thing in my generation, when Greg didn't get an invite there, it felt different, because these guys are there with so many times with a chance to win, but it is what it is.   
   
 Q.   Can you just share some of your experiences with the Arnold Palmer hospital‑‑  
TIGER WOODS:   Obviously he has tremendous influence, because obviously he raised the money to build Winnie Palmer.   That's where both of my kids were born, and Dr.Alexander did a great job.   We struggled with Sam; she was born premie, and they did an absolutely incredible job of making sure she was healthy and progressed each and every day.   It was just an incredible feeling what the staff did.   We are still thankful, with what Arnold has done with this tournament, because if it wasn't for him, we wouldn't have the opportunity to have the Winnie Palmer hospital.   All of us players are very thankful for what he's done.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT