WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 10, 2012
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   62 last Sunday, you might need another one of those tomorrow the way the scores are going today?  
TIGER WOODS:   They are going pretty low out there.   The wind is not quite blowing as hard, and you know, all of the par 5s are reachable.   Especially for the longer guys, even 8 is reachable.   12 is going downwind.   So a good drive with that pin, you can knock it on.   
I'm sure some of the longer guys, like Gary or Dustin or Bubba, are probably hitting irons to that hole.  
   
 Q.   The par 5s been your lament so far this week, just not able to take advantage of them?   
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, sometimes I do.   Sometimes I don't.   It's either I'm making birdies or I'm making bogeys, or eagles.   
   
 Q.   You kind of used to ‑‑ when you are on, you feast on those generally, don't you?   
TIGER WOODS:   Well, you are going to have to with four reachable par 5s.   The scores being as low as they are, I mean, the winning score is probably going to be probably in the 20s.   So you're going to have to take care of those par 5s.  
   
 Q.   It's been years since you've played this much golf in a short stretch.   Just wondering how your body is holding up through it?  
TIGER WOODS:   Oh, it feels great.   
   
 Q.   Take us through 18.   What was a good birdie; might be a skin?  
TIGER WOODS:   I hit a sweet drive down there.   That was nice.   I tried to hit the same drive I hit off of 16.   And just roasted it down there, that was nice.   And then I had the same yardage that I had over on 17, but the wind was more directly in.   So 17, I hit 9.   18, I hit a little 8 and just tried to make sure I kept it right of the hole, maybe use the ridge to bring it down and stayed committed to the line.   I hit it, turned over a little bit with the wind and ended up pretty good.  
   
 Q.   Is it still disappointing, given the start, and some of the numbers out there?   
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, in a sense, because I felt that, you know, I had it going in there and got it to 8 where I was‑‑ it was a very uncomfortable shot for me to hit.   It's a hard shot for me to take off and hit just a three‑quarter 2‑iron; but hit it up in the air, and turn it, from right‑to‑left.   That's a hard shot for most people.   And I'm like most people on that one.   That's a tough one.   
It's no big deal when you're cutting it.   But trying to draw it, I couldn't get 3 there.   And I had to take something off the 2, or it's outta here.   I bailed on it and ended up in a spot where it was burned out and I was afraid of landing it on the green, rolling over in the water and hitting it in the bunker.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT