WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 8, 2012
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you just talk about the day?
TIGER WOODS:   It was windy.   (Laughing). 
It was just a difficult day.   The wind was blowing putts around, and it was made for a very challenging round.   Par 5s were accurate sets I believe.   You could handle par 5s today and I'm sure the guys who went‑‑ shot some good scores today played the par5s well, because I think just about every one was reachable today.

Q.   Can you talk about the second shot at 8?
TIGER WOODS:   Well, if I try and draw it, I'm going to be fighting against the wind and there's no point.   If I play best and hit it straight, it's in the left bunker; and I can blast it out.   And if it turns with the wind, it will end up on the green, so I went with that play and I hit it solid.   I hit it more through the wind than I thought I would and ended up in a bunker.

Q.   There are a lot of big numbers on 18, how difficult was that playing? 
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, if you pull it a touch, it doesn't take much.   You can't carry it.   Like Ruby hit a perfect tee shot down 18, now he's up against a palm three and it's a really tough tee shot.   And you know, you've got to hit a really good one, and you've got to hit it hard.   I mean, you've got to hammer it. 

Q.   Did the chip on 18 confuse you?
TIGER WOODS:   Oh, my God, I didn't expect it to break that much.   I could have thrown that ball almost on the right fringe.   I didn't expect it to break that much, no.   I played half of that, and obviously it ended up in a pretty bad spot. 

Q.   When you hit it in there stiff on No. 1, were you thinking, sort of picking up where you left off Sunday? 
TIGER WOODS:   That was the intent.   I got off to a nice start today, hit a lot of good shots, just made a couple mistakes with iron shots and cost me two shots right in a row there at 4 and 5 and then after that, I played some really solid golf and just was couldn't quite make enough birdies. 

Q.   Was it hard to pick a club today? 
TIGER WOODS:   It was gusty and changed directions every now and then.   For some reason I kept hitting every drive in the first cut so it added and compounded the problem, because now you're‑‑ is it going to play, not going to fly; is it going to go through the wind or is it going to get killed by the wind.   Just kept compounding the problem, and I had to consequently play very conservative on a lot of the shots. 

Q.   How is it to be back at this course that you've had so much success, you must really enjoy playing here?
TIGER WOODS:   I do.   I like the routing.   I know we have got, what, probably seven more rounds on it before it's done.   So enjoy it before they redo it again. 

Q.   Mr.Trump was here; did you have any interaction with him? 
TIGER WOODS:   I saw him this morning, yeah, said hi before I warmed up. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT