THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 1, 2012
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You said you put in a lot of work on the greens; how would you assess the result?   
TIGER WOODS:   I hit a lot of pure putts today.   They rolled over a lot of edges.   They just didn't quite go in.   But wasn't disappointed with my lines.   A couple bad reads out there.   The grain kind of snagged it harder or less than I expected, but overall I hit the ball very good with my putts.  
   
 Q.   How would you describe your comfort on these greens that you have not played professionally in competition?   
TIGER WOODS:   They are hard to hit the putts hard enough for me.   I find that they look faster than they are putting.   I had to get committed to hitting the putts harder and getting past the hole, and when I start doing that, I will make the putts.   But consequently, I also 3‑putted one, too.   I whipped it by there.  
   
 Q.   What's your overall assessment today?  
TIGER WOODS:   I didn't get a whole lot out of my round.   I hit the ball a lot better than I scored and I certainly putted well, and I didn't hardly get anything out of the round.   Hopefully tomorrow it will be better.  
   
 Q.   The putting, was it not getting it close enough?   
TIGER WOODS:   I agree with that.   I hit good shots and unfortunately I just picked some bad lines.   And also, I didn't get up‑and‑down, either a couple times, a couple easy up‑and‑downs; I blew those.   
So a round I should have been probably 2‑ or 3‑under par quickly turned into 1‑over.   
   
 Q.   Would you talk about the reception that you got today?   It seemed like it was all positive all day?   
TIGER WOODS:   It was incredible.   It's just pretty neat to be able to play in front of people like this.   This is my new hometown.   I live here.   For everyone to come out and support this event, obviously with the charities involves, the Nicklaus family, it's a fantastic event.  
   
 Q.   How is it having a rookie thrown into the mix?   Did you know anything about him before you teed off, and did you detect any nerves with him being in that situation?  
TIGER WOODS:   No, I didn't know anything about him.   Westy and Ididn't know if he played The European Tour or our tour.   But he was thrust into a situation I'm sure he's not really familiar with, and he handled himself great.   It's a tough deal out there.   On a golf course where you can be just a little bit off‑‑ scores add up quickly.   
   
 Q.   Do you think you can be aggressive on this golf course?  
TIGER WOODS:   Well, we can be aggressive, because today was soft; we had ball‑in‑hand.   
I know Westy and I took a couple‑‑ for me, two times and I think for him, three times, where he actually took a little more off the tee, because his ball is not going to roll anywhere.   And also, we get the ball‑in‑hand.   So get down there, put your hand on it and then be aggressive from there.  
   
 Q.   Strategy for tomorrow?  
TIGER WOODS:   Obviously I'm going to have to score better than I did today.   Hopefully shoot something in the 60s and get myself within touch of the lead.   
   
 Q.   What was the most frustrating part of the round?   Was it putting, some of the chips?  
TIGER WOODS:   I just didn't get a lot out of my round.   It's kind of how I went today‑‑ I felt like I played a lot better and I putted a lot better.   I just didn't score.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT