THE PRESIDENTS CUP
November 17, 2011
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   TIGER WOODS: We were just slightly off. On a golf course like this, it doesn't take much. They partnered up well, shot 4-under on us, and we just couldn't get any kind of pressure on them. 

 Q. Looked like it was really hard to get it close to the hole. Obviously these greens --
 TIGER WOODS: You have to drive the ball in the fairway and you have to get it down there where you have some kind of 9-iron on down. Because it's just not holding. You've got to -- with the wind and the crustiness, and also some of these pin locations, just over the knobs, you have to be somewhat aggressive off the tees to get it down there so you can have some kind of short iron and put some serious spin on it. 

 Q. Was Steve off a little bit today do you think? 
 TIGER WOODS: He was just slightly off, but on a golf course like this, it doesn't take much. Some of these matches, the guys were over par and doing well. Like I said, we couldn't put any pressure on them and that was kind of the key.

 Q. Have you ever had a worse loss in match play, at any level, going back to when you first started playing? 
 TIGER WOODS: Not that I know of. Zinger and I got beat pretty good at The Belfry one year. 

 Q. What did Westwood and Donald beat you last year?
 TIGER WOODS: I think it was 6 & 5, I believe. Not 100 percent sure on that. 

 Q. What about you, how you felt about the way you were hitting the ball? Obviously you're only hitting half the shots. 
 TIGER WOODS: I felt like I was hitting the ball really good today. Unfortunately we got into a position, I didn't want to fire at some of these flags but we were in a position where we have to. We are hitting first, and you know, they have got a shorter iron than we do, and I know they can spin. You know, we are in a position where you've got to kind of at least take somewhat of a run at it on these flags. 
 It doesn't take much to start missing a yard or two here or there and starts falling off the hedges.

 Q. A little weird that Strick was putting about an 18-incher on the first hole. 
 TIGER WOODS: I was very surprised, probably the best putter on the planet, I don't think he's missed one of those coming out of the womb. 

 Q. Can I can you about the Abu Dhabi news that came out today? Was it a tough decision, because it's the same week as Torrey Pines?
 TIGER WOODS: It was a tough position, but Abu Dhabi has been fantastic for our foundation. They have been a partner of ours for a very long time and I played HSBC before it became a World Golf Championships because of that, and this is just an extension of that. 

 Q. Is it safe to say that will be your first tournament next year? 
 TIGER WOODS: That will be the first tournament next year, that's correct, it will be. 

 Q. Do you know what you'll play in the U.S. first, like Match Play? 
 TIGER WOODS: Not yet. Probably in the next couple of weeks we'll sit down and finalize that so I can give Joey the schedule. 

 Q. Will that be the only one there? 
 TIGER WOODS: That is correct, I'm only playing one.

 Q. And as for tomorrow, a different format obviously, now playing your own ball, do you anticipate any changes? You and Strick, are you going to mix it up or do you have any feelings on what Freddie is going to do?
 TIGER WOODS: We are going to go talk about it now. Freddie wanted to sit down and have a conversation with some of the guys after the session was done. And he's going to throw out some ideas. I don't know what they are yet, but I'm sure there will be some ideas. 

 Q. You've got to be feeling good, even though you lost, obviously the team has had a good day. 
 TIGER WOODS: We had some good comebacks. This one was a great comeback with Phil and Jim playing great ahead of us, Bubba and Webb leading it off. Some of the guys played well as a team. And in this format, if you can put some pressure on your opponent in this format -- you just can't make up ground in this format, because it's only one ball. And if one guy is slightly off or both guys are slightly off on this golf course, you're going to pay a price. 

 Q. The crowd applauded when you and Steve shook hands on the first tee; they liked the sportsmanship. 
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I put my hand out there to shake it, and life goes forward. There's some great things that Steve-and I did, and that's how I look at it. I know he probably looks at it differently than I do, but, hey, life goes forward and I'm very happy with what we done in our career together. Life goes forward. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT