FRYS.COM OPEN
October 9, 2011
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What do you think of the event?
     TIGER WOODS: Oh, the event's fantastic. I think everyone turned out in droves the last couple days. The weather turned. Perfect sunshine. I mean this is -- I mean I'm kind of towards No. Cal, but this is a typical So. Cal day. So it's great to be out.

 Q. You've talked out week about needing to add reps. I know you're playing in Australia prior to the Presidents Cup. Would you consider adding anything else prior to Australia?
     TIGER WOODS: No. I'm on a pretty busy part of the year. So no.

 Q. And finally, any contact with Fred Couples this week, an interested spectator, I'm sure. 
     TIGER WOODS: Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. We've been texting. There's no doubt.

 Q. Thanks. 
     TIGER WOODS: Thanks. I appreciate it. 

 Q. Tiger, shake-down cruise, give us the state of your game in today's round. 
     TIGER WOODS: Well, I played really well today. Unfortunately just kind of sputtered there in the momentum there at 16. So I was rolling there. I was 1-under for the day. If I make par there, go birdie 17. Who knows. But unfortunately it didn't happen that way.

 Q. I thought there were two big putts on your Back 9. They looked like really big putts to me, both 1 and 3. Either one could have gone down. Birdie there would have continued the momentum. 
     TIGER WOODS: Well, as I've said, I've struggled all week with the reads and especially the speed. I made the adjustment of putting more lead on the putter and still struggled. 
     I mean Arjun and Robbie, we were talking about that all day today. They were struggling all week. And I guess I'm not the only one.

 Q. I thought your game showed great improvement from Thursday through the weekend. Before you leave, tell me about the bizarre incident on the 7th green. 
     TIGER WOODS: Yeah. Some guy just came running on the green, and he had a hot dog, and evidently -- I don't know how he tried to throw it, but I was kind of focusing on my putt when he started yelling. Next thing I know he laid on the ground, and looked like he wanted to be arrested really because he laid on the ground, put his hands behind his back and turned his head.

 Q. You immediately putted, too. It didn't seem to upset you at all. You smiled. 
     TIGER WOODS: I wanted to bury that putt.

 Q. Would have been great. Good seeing you play this week. 
     TIGER WOODS: Thanks, Fred. 

 Q. Tiger, that was bizarre, huh? 
     TIGER WOODS: Yeah. That was. Certainly I guess he wanted to be in the news. And I'm sure he will be. 

 Q. Were you afraid at all even for a second? Obviously you're not thinking that someone's going to do that. 
     TIGER WOODS: No. No. He was pretty far away from me, and you know, when he started making the commotion and the gallery started to kind of get into it, I could hear the security behind me, I was still bent over my putt. And when I looked up (indiscernible) was already in the air. The fun was kind of disintegrating there. So he laid down on the ground and looked like he either -- he knew what he was doing because he laid on the ground, put his hands behind his back and turned his head away from security. So just one of those deals.

 Q. Tiger, you talked about the event a minute ago. This is kind of a unique for you with The Presidents Cup and the injury. Could you see yourself coming back here, you know, next year when it's a normal year for you?
     TIGER WOODS: Absolutely, because this is a fantastic setting. What John Fry has done, what Duke has done with this event has been fantastic. 
     Unfortunately we didn't have good weather early in the week, but it turned out great and the people are out this week. Great atmosphere. I just wish the golf course would have been dry. Pamp told me that he played on Monday and it was firm and fast, and he said it was unbelievably tricky. It would be nice to play it when conditions were like that.

 Q. Tiger, what do you think about the plans to move it over to the Institute and maybe make this the start of the next series -- next season, rather. What are your thoughts about that?
     TIGER WOODS: I hope they don't put it all the way back.

 Q. So you like the Institute?
     TIGER WOODS: It's a good golf course, there's no doubt. The greens are a lot quicker over there than they are here. Still some movement, but not as much movement. So they can get the greens faster. 
     But the length, you know, if it's dry, I mean you can play a golf course back, and the beauty of having it that long is depending on wind conditions, you can move around tee boxes. Wind switches, comes out of either the south or north, you are can start moving around tee boxes and move them up, move them back. And that's one of the neat things about having it the way they designed it is that the tee boxes are all long. They're not four or five different hitting areas. They're all long hitting areas. So he has that option.

 Q. How would you sum up this week for you?
     TIGER WOODS: I got better every day, and unfortunately, a couple times where I kind of didn't get the momentum going when I had a couple of chances to make putts or I hit a bad shot, like, for instance, today, I was rolling there. I was 4-under. And at 16 all you do is dump the ball to the left, and I stuck on the ground and hit it to the right. Actually I hit it the wrong club. I should have taken one more and put it to the left. But that right there, you make par there, birdie 17, easy pin on 18. I could have just really got it rolling, and I had a couple opportunities like that, both yesterday and again today.

 Q. What do you attribute that to? Is that mental? Is it physical?
     TIGER WOODS: I haven't played much. That comes with competitive flow, understanding the situations and feels, and game time's a little bit different. I really haven't played a whole lot since the Masters.

 Q. Tiger, do you leave here feeling, hey, I'm heading in the right direction after three straight 68s?
     TIGER WOODS: Absolutely. As I said, I got better every day. And I hit a lot of good putts the last three days, which is good, and it was nice to make that adjustment there on the putting green after Thursday's round. I felt very comfortable, and I just need to keep staying the course. The game's coming, and the shots, you know, I drove it great today, so that was one.

 Q. Tiger, with all the looking you've done, can you gauge where you are in terms of swing changes and where you want to be and where that is?
     TIGER WOODS: It's getting there. It's a process. I don't know what the end is. You know, that's one of those things when the career is all said and done, then you know. But I'm in the midst of it and I know I'm getting better and that's the tough part.

 Q. Would you consider adding Disney to your schedule?
     TIGER WOODS: I can't. I got family obligations. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT