FRYS.COM OPEN
October 8, 2011
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Back to back 68s. Your thoughts on today's round?  
 TIGER WOODS: The golf course could have been had today. I'm sure somebody will shoot 62 or 3 out there pretty easily. (Indiscernible) if you drive the ball decent and hit some wedges in there. Couple of par-5s are reachable and then obviously drivable there at 16. Guys can take it deep out there.   
  
  Q. But you did that. You put the ball in the fairway quite a few times and hit some nice iron shots. Just really unable to execute the putter and that's something that's got to be a positive for you?  
 A. Initially I didn't hit the wedges close starting out. You know, I felt good over the puts, hitting my lines. They are a little bit tricky to read. So I've just got to obviously shoot low tomorrow.   
  
  Q. I know it's not reflective of the score, but I thought your ball striking improved from round to round, 14 of 18 greens today.  
 TIGER WOODS: Absolutely it's gotten better. I felt so have good over the ball today. I felt that I hit a couple of bad iron shots, ones that I had wedges in. I should have stuffed those, but I didn't. I didn't put myself in a position where I needed to be.  
  
  Q. And I thought your putting improved?  
 TIGER WOODS: Absolutely.  
  
  Q. You had a much better feel for the greens?  
 TIGER WOODS: No doubt my speed is good, my line is good. I've just got to learn how to read these things. They're a little bit tricky to read, a little bit grainy, actually, which is kind of different. You wouldn't think they would be, but they've got a little bit of a tug to them.  
 Got a little tricky at times, some of these pins. If you miss by just a putt, and we did a couple times out there, not just myself but Bett missed it and Louis missed it. You have got a tough putt. If it catches the right side of the ridge, you've got a 10-footer. That's what I said earlier to BRB, I think somebody can shoot a 62 or 3 out there. It can definitely be had.  
  
  Q. In terms of views do you feel like tournament golf, you talk about shooting at home and shooting good scores, but are you getting into the feel and the rhythm of tournament golf?  
 TIGER WOODS: Absolutely. Absolutely. The shots, the feel, the trajs, lining the ball at different numbers. It's not just the flag number here. You're playing backstops a lot of times. You're playing not the flag number, which is kind of different. Especially at home you are always playing the flag number. Here, most of the time, we're playing the 5, 6, 7, 8 even 10 yards past.  
  
  Q. You had the birdie-birdie momentum, looked like you overcooked a couple of draws on the second nine. Run us through that.   
 TIGER WOODS: The body starts rotating and obviously the hands chase. So if I keep the body speed up, then I'll be fine.  
  
  Q. How frustrating was that, you had two birdies in a row, you were down 5-under and then going 3 back at that moment?   
 A. Not only that, I had that shot up there at 17. That's kind of a no-brainer. Just put the ball on the green. It's really not that hard of a shot. It was dead center short. It would have been nice to make birdie there. I stuffed it on 18. It would have been nice to make birdie there.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)   
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I'm able to -- if it does creep in, I'm able to fix it. That's the great thing. I hit it well all day except for a couple of straight ones here and there. But I know what the fixes are.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)   
 TIGER WOODS: It's getting better. I'm improving day by day, which is good. Obviously tomorrow I need to improve a lot and make the putts and post a really low one tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You talked about wanting to win, but did you have other markers that you were looking at as to how you were performing?   
 TIGER WOODS: I would like to just keep building on it. I'm definitely doing that. As I said, I was very close to really putting it together on the front nine and birdie 17 and 18 and all of a sudden, I'm 5-under. I wasn't that far away from really turning it to the back nine and taking it deep. I think this golf course can be had today. These pin locations, 62 or 3 is not out of the realm.  
  
  Q. You had 11 birdies the last three days. Talk about trying to keep bogeys off your card. Are you getting into that feel again?   
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I haven't made many bogeys. I made a nice little save there at 7. Certain putts you just got to make. And I get a feel for that. The last two days I really putted well after the work we did after Thursday's round. I feel like I'm getting my lines and my speed. I have got to read these things a little bit better.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT