FRYS.COM OPEN
October 6, 2011
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   TIGER WOODS: That's probably one of the worst putting rounds I've ever had. I can't putt the ball any worse than I did today.

 Q. Too slow for you?
 TIGER WOODS: I just had a hard time hitting my stroke, and then I started altering it. And it was all over the place. I think I'm going to go put some mud tape on it and see if maybe a little bit more mass. It's always worked in the past. I think I'm going to have to do that here.

 Q. Were you trying to adjust in the round?
 TIGER WOODS: Absolutely. And my stroke got worse because I was trying to do it, and then, you know, I started losing confidence in it because I wasn't hitting my line. So it was just a downward spiral.

 Q. What about the rest of your game?
 TIGER WOODS: The rest of the game was not too bad. I hit some bad shots, yes. But also I hit some really good ones. And very pleased at the shots I was hitting most of the day. But I got nothing out of the round on the greens. And whatever momentum I could have gotten by hitting good shots, you know, I just missed putts.

 Q. Tiger, you said earlier that you had spent so much time working on your swing and it cut into your practice time. Has that changed, I assume?
 TIGER WOODS: Hasn't changed, no. I've still been working on my full swing. I've chipped a lot, but I haven't obviously putted as -- I've putted a lot, but not on greens that are at this speed. The greens back home are a little bit faster than this.

 Q. When you're on the first tee, looked like you went about 75, 80 percent, two very nice shots. Do you find that you go faster and that's how you get a little stuck? Is that what causes the blocks and the hooks or can you tone yourself down?
 TIGER WOODS: No. It's just posture. And for me it's posture and the take-away. If I get those two right, I can hit any track, any shot I want.

 Q. Any issues with the knee at all?
 TIGER WOODS: No. No. All good. 

 Q. Tiger, the putting's been an issue a couple of times this year. You've talked about speed and things like that. Is there any reason you can kind of pinpoint as to why you've kind of struggled with it this year a few times?
 TIGER WOODS: Well, one, I haven't played, and two, I haven't practiced as much as I have in the past. I've been working on my full game.
 You know, and as I said, the hardest part today was I just didn't have the speed. I hadn't putted on greens at this speed, and I played over at The Institute the other day, and they were really quick. We played yesterday, and yeah, they were probably a little bit faster than they were today. The rain this morning and then the rain we had while we were playing just kept slowing them up.

 Q. Coming into this how much pressure do you feel to play well to validate Fred's decision to name you on The Presidents Cup team?
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I'm just playing to get competitive and win a golf tournament. It's not about validation. It's about going out there and playing, and right now I'm six back. I need to put together a good round tomorrow and gradually piece my way back into the tournament.

 Q. What happened on the second shot on 12? Were you trying to bite off a little bit too much?
 TIGER WOODS: No. The rough just turned the club. I was trying to hit over where Pat hit his, over to the right there, and it just snagged it, turned it, turned it enough where I couldn't carry it on that point.

 Q. Did you know it was out?
 TIGER WOODS: I did not know. No one knew. No one saw it. We got down there, the marshal who was there was oblivious. He didn't see it. 

 Q. I think it almost hit him.
 TIGER WOODS: He never saw it. He never heard it. He never saw it. We had -- Gomer is the one who told us from TV where it hit, where it landed and what happened.

 Q. What did you think of Patrick?
 TIGER WOODS: Very steady. As I played with him over the other day at the Institute. He hits the ball reasonably long, very steady, and as we've seen this entire summer, the kid can putt. 
 He got to the finals of the Western and 
U. S., and obviously he did really well shooting 60 up at Hartford. You don't shoot 60 without putting well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT