PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2011
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   TIGER WOODS: I think I was in nearly, what, 20 bunkers in two days -- nearly 20 I think. And had four or five water balls. So that's not going to add up to a very good score.   
 Today I hit the ball a lot better. I putted well the last two days and really felt great but I just never got to the green soon enough.  
  
  Q. Do you think you're behind -- what are your plans, November is your next schedule tournament?  
 TIGER WOODS: Correct. That's what it's going to be. Yeah, I got some time off again (smiling).  
  
  Q. What will you do, work on the game?  
 TIGER WOODS: Now I'll have nothing to do but work on my game. That's going to be good. Sean and I haven't had the opportunity to really sit down and do a lot of work, so this will be our time. He's going to have a child here soon, so he's going to be at home. He's not going to be travelling at much and I'll be down in Jupiter, so we'll be able to do some work.  
  
  Q. You said yesterday the primary feeling was anger. What is it today?   
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I think obviously frustration, disappointment, that I didn't -- I'm not contending in the tournament. So, next time.   
  
  Q. Is this a step backwards?  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I think it's a step back in the sense that I didn't make the cut and I'm not contending in the tournament.   
 But it's a giant leap forward in the fact that I played two straight weeks, healthy. That's great for our practice sessions coming up. We are going to be now able to work and get after it. So something, unfortunately, I haven't been able to do, and I thought I could come in here and play the last couple of weeks and get it done somehow, but I need some work.   
  
  Q. After two rounds here, where is your confidence at?  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I showed signs that I can hit the ball exactly how I know I can. And unfortunately I just didn't do it enough times.   
 The changes I'm making, I'm hitting the ball further, and that's something I have to adjust for. I have way more compression now than I ever have, so the ball is now coming off cleaner, faster, and I've got to get used to that.   
 So again, today was another example, I hit a lot of my shots I missed were over the greens, over the flags, and just not quite used to hitting the ball that far yet. I have to adjust those numbers.  
  
  Q. What can it do for the tee shots? Obviously sometimes it looks like you don't have the confidence when they travel everywhere but straight and you bail out to the safest area; is that just a confidence issue or trust issue?  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, it's I think that I have to -- in this model, we do a go-to shot. When I was with Hank it was dump the club at the top and obviously rip across and hit a big cut.   
 The cut in this model is different so I'm going to have to get used to that. And again, the ball is not curving as much. I have a hard time aiming it, so it's a strange sight.   
 But my cut shots don't cut as much and my draws don't draw much. You think it would be pretty easy, but I've played for years a certain way, and I'm going to have to kind of get my sight lines where I feel comfortable with it.  
  
  Q. Given the relatively little amount of work you've been able to do with Sean, are you confident that his way is the right way for you, and is it just a matter of --  
 TIGER WOODS: Absolutely. I have way more power now. Hitting the ball much further. So it's just a matter of just doing the work. I need to go out there and spend hours getting it done.  
  
  Q. Would you consider adding anything in the fall between now and the end of the year?   
 TIGER WOODS: I might. I know that I'm scheduled in November to go, but as of right now, that's the only commitment that I have.   
  
  Q. I know you just walked off the course, and I don't know how fair the question is, but at least right now, how do you assess this year?  
 TIGER WOODS: This year has been frustrating, because I was feeling somewhat healthy going into the Masters, and put it together there and was leading the tournament with a few holes to go. And then obviously got hurt. And then I haven't played since is, really. So it's been frustrating from that standpoint, that I have not been able to practice and work, and obviously compete.   
 I've missed two major championships, and missed the cut in the other one. So just need to go out and do my work.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT