WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 6, 2011
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tiger, now three rounds in, just assess where you are, where the game is, how you're feeling. 
 TIGER WOODS: Basically what I was describing over there with Peter is I didn't putt well again today. The iron game was back. I started getting a feel in my hands. I had to hit the ball the right number. Just about every iron shot was on my number, which was great. Still struggling a little bit with my setup and alignments off of tee shots because I used to curve the ball a lot more. I don't curve the ball as much anymore, and it's kind of hard to trust when I'm out there in tournament play, and most of my shots are missing right on the edges of fairways, so I've just got to get more committed to that. And I'm hitting the ball straighter. It's just a nice change, but it's still a change. 

 Q. Do you feel like there's still progress being made daily?
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, today I didn't hit the ball well starting off, and I fixed it, put it together again, and really hit it good coming home, started hitting the ball the right flight, the right traj, every tee shot was flash, everything was back to where it was at the beginning of the week. Only difference is I didn't putt well again today, two horseshoes, three-putted 18, and then obviously made a bogey with a sand wedge there on 16, that's four shots right there, I just threw away right there.

 Q. (Inaudible.) 
 TIGER WOODS: Well, the putting is just on different greens. You know, it's just -- I'm used to putting on Bermuda at home. I've got the greens fast, but it's still Bermuda. This is bent. 
 Next week -- I felt more comfortable when I was playing my practice round on Monday because that's basically what we have at home. So looking forward to Atlanta in that regard.

 Q. What would be a good reward tomorrow to take to Atlanta?
 TIGER WOODS: Just continue building. I feel like, as I said, my iron game came back today. I hit the ball the right numbers all day, which was good. Just need to get more committed on my target lines starting off on the tee shots because the ball just doesn't move anymore. I hit the ball so much straighter than I used to.

 Q. Position-wise are you looking at maybe top 5, top 10?
 TIGER WOODS: I've just got to put together a good round and let it build. That's something I haven't done yet. I've only played three rounds. Unfortunately I'm not there battling with a chance to win, but I can still post a good round tomorrow.

 Q. How do you feel about just being in there and competing? That's really what you wanted to do this week, just compete again?
 TIGER WOODS: Absolutely, it feels good.

 Q. Talk about putting the ball on a string and the ball is not moving as much as before, are you happy about that?
 TIGER WOODS: Absolutely.

 Q. You're just not used to it, having enough reps with it?
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I've had reps, but unfortunately it's not in tournament play, and when you get into tournaments I fall into my old patterns, my old shapes. I know what I see, what I feel comfortable doing because that's what I used to do for years. Now the ball, I hit it straighter, and I've got to allow for that, which means I've got to aim more down the middle of the fairway or I've got to aim more towards flags because the ball used to shape a lot more. The things that Sean and I are working on, it takes the shaping out of it.

 Q. It must be an amazing feeling, you're sitting there going, wow, I'm still improving at 35?
 TIGER WOODS: Aren't you supposed to? 

 Q. Last year at this time it wasn't fun here. Is it fun? Are you having fun now?
 TIGER WOODS: Absolutely.

 Q. What's fun about it?
 TIGER WOODS: Just competing. I haven't done it in a while. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT