THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2011
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tiger, was it from the start or was it a particular shot?   
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, the first tee shot.  
  
  Q. Really?   
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, the knee acted up and then the Achilles followed after that and then the calf started cramping up. Everything started getting tight, so it's just a whole chain reaction.  
  
  Q. You had to hit some creative shots right out of the chute, pine straw out of the second one, and uphill lie?  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, the pine shot didn't help because my foot slipped, my left foot slipped. It obviously would have probably felt better if it would have held.   
  
  Q. Anyway to tell going forward what happens? Are you back to square one?   
 TIGER WOODS: I don't know. I just finished nine holes. Give me a few days to see what the docs say, and we'll take a look at it.  
  
  Q. How bad is the pain right now?   
 TIGER WOODS: I'm having a hard time walking.  
  
  Q. Did this happen after any practice rounds or anything where your knee felt poorly and you just --  
 TIGER WOODS: The Achilles and knee would be sore, but you're not worse than what icing and treatment wouldn't do at night. So this morning, felt fine during warm-up, and then as I played, it progressively got worse.  
  
  Q. Are you surprised this came about today?   
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, actually I am. The treatment's been good. It's been getting better. It just wasn't enough.  
  
  Q. Was the pain as bad as it was at Torrey?   
 TIGER WOODS: No, no, my leg was broken there. So no, not quite that bad.  
  
  Q. Anything unusual about the first tee shot? I mean, pine shot you can understand.   
 TIGER WOODS: I was just trying to draw that ball out there just a little bit. I pushed forward, and you know it just didn't feel good.  
  
  Q. Do you have any worries?   
 TIGER WOODS: I know I have. But it's just a matter of what we're going to do about it.  
  
  Q. Might it have been advisable to come off earlier?   
 TIGER WOODS: Probably.  
  
  Q. The shot on 4, was that leg related?   
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, the tee shot was. It grabbed me on the tee shot there but the pitch shots weren't. Those were just bad pitch shots. Those were just awful.  
  
  Q. Your left leg was like you were hanging back?  
 TIGER WOODS: I don't know. We'll talk about it and figure it what went well. Say again, I'm sorry.  
  
  Q. So it was physical? Putting pressure into the left leg, is that what you're feeling?   
 TIGER WOODS: Well, it's hard to put muscle pressure on it right now, so it's a bit of a struggle.  
  
  Q. Did your doctors say it's going to be okay if you do this, or did they advise you not to?   
 TIGER WOODS: They said I could play. The more rest I get, the better it would be, obviously.   
 Obviously, it's a big event. I want to come back for it and play, and unfortunately I wasn't able to finish.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT