U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2019
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tiger, are you steaming?  
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I am.  Not a very good finish.   
 Q.  Clearly not the way you want to finish.  How disappointed are you?  
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I'm a little hot right now.  I just signed my card about a minute ago.  So need a little time to cool down a little bit.   
 Q.  Greens a little faster today?  
TIGER WOODS: A little bit quicker.  Still a little slow and bumpy.  It's so important to be below the hole, because above the holes, they're a little tough to make.   
 Q.  Is it more the ending or the fact that you did have a few opportunities?  
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I had a couple opportunities there.  I missed a couple.  But overall I kept leaving myself above the hole.  And unlike yesterday, when I missed it I missed the correct spots below the hole, today I never had that many looks from below the hole.  And the one I did have, I made at 11.   
 Q.  Looking at the scores, I mean, it's clearly a tougher test, tougher course out there today than it was yesterday.  
TIGER WOODS: It is.  They moved a couple of the pins I think a little bit more difficult than they were yesterday for sure.  And now with the -- this marine layer lifting, the wind is going to start picking up.  It's going to get a little quick this afternoon.   
 Q.  As hot as you feel right now, do you take any encouragement that you're just six off?  
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, right now I'm still in the ball game.  There's so many guys with a chance to win.  We've got a long way to go, and, you know, we'll see how it shapes up for tomorrow.   
The golf course can be a little bit faster, a little bit more springy than it was today, and scores will continue to back up a little bit.   
 Q.  How firm can they get it this weekend?  
TIGER WOODS: They got it right where they want it.  It's just a matter of how much will it dry out from morning to afternoon.  The fairways were a bit slow and soft.  I don't think they put mowers on them this morning.   
And the short areas, the run-ups, man, they're firm.  So if they get the greens anywhere like that, it will be a hell of a test.   
 Q.  You're six back.  There's so many guys (indiscernible) try to play more aggressive?  
TIGER WOODS: No, no.  You have your opportunities the first seven holes to get after it.  And after that, it's plod away.  There's some tough, tough green complexes.  So if you're in the wrong spot, you've got to be defensive.   
 Q.  What would you say is missing, Tiger?  If you could put your finger on it?  A little off on your swing?  
TIGER WOODS: No, it's just a matter of leaving the ball in the right spots.  And yesterday I did that; today I didn't.  I was above the hole.  And just wasn't as crisp as I needed to be to put the ball below the hole each and every shot.  So I had puttable putts and I could take a lot of the bounciness out of it.  Today I just couldn't do that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT