WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 11, 2011
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Just comments on your round?   
 TIGER WOODS: Well certainly was not one of my better putting rounds today. I had a hard time with the grain. I missed basically only two putts on the high side today and everything was on the low side. Just couldn't play enough break.   
  
  Q. I asked you this in Akron, and you obviously didn't play that well but it didn't look like you were having that much fun there and really the last couple of days you're not looking like you're having too much fun, either. How difficult is this for you?  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, nine back, you're not going to have a lot of fun when you're nine back. I don't know if a lot of people are very happy with that but I'm not.  
  
  Q. In terms of a couple of squirrelly shots out there, the drive, you birdied the first hole, get a bit of momentum and seems like that's how it's going for you, you get a bit of momentum and the next hole, it's hard to build.   
 TIGER WOODS: I've done it before. I mean, it's not the first time I hit a snipe. Did it at the Masters. It is what it is. I hit a bad shot, no big deal, left myself with an opportunity to make par, and perfect angle and hit a bad pitch. So it's like -- and then get it right back and the hit a good shot and the wind takes it, a good bunker shot and the grain takes the putt.   
 Even if I hit good shots today, if I just putt normal, I shoot 3- or 4-under par today. That's about how good it was.   
  
  Q. You struggled here two years ago, your first stroke-play event back, is it the greens or your stroke?  
 TIGER WOODS: I feel great over the putts. I just can't hit the putts hard enough. The putts -- my feel on the pace were for the practice rounds. When the rain came in, it totally changed what I saw and what I felt.   
 I've had a hard time making the adjustment. Look at all of my putts, they are on the low side or not enough pace to carry on my line. And it's hard for me to commit to hitting putts that hard when in the back of my mind I know they are rolling pretty good early in the week.   
  
  Q. How do you not get frustrated?  
 TIGER WOODS: You just have to keep grinding, keep working. I've hit numerous good shots again today and as I said, if I putt normal today, I'm 3- or 4-under par. It's not that bad.   
  
  Q. Were you feeling okay the front nine. You were stretching throughout the whole front nine.   
 TIGER WOODS: Just a little stiff.   
  
  Q. Was your back okay on 10?   
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, back's fine, yeah. Back's all good.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT