FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 28, 2011
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You always feel like you leave some shots out there, but are you happy with the way you played the South?   
 TIGER WOODS: The way I played, no. I'm grinding my way around the golf course pretty good today. I got off to a good start today. I was making some putts, hitting some good shots. I lost it in the middle part of the round and then I got it back in the end.   
 You know, it's a round that could have easily slipped away, but I got it back at 16 and 18.  
  
  Q. On 18, it's always nice to just birdie 18 because you know you're going into the next day with that.   
 TIGER WOODS: I hit probably my two best shots all day. Just hit a bomb down there, and I hit just an up in the air 5-wood, a little slight draw into the wind to hold it. It's nice when I'm able to pull off shots like that, because I know it's in there, it's just a matter of doing it.  
  
  Q. Going into the weekend 5 back, is that a good position for you?   
 TIGER WOODS: I'd rather be leading, but it depends what they do tomorrow. As I said to Jim over there, they have an opportunity to set this place up like a U.S. Open if they want to. It's just as dry, just as fast, just as hard, and obviously the rough's up. We'll see what they do.   
 Normally our TOUR doesn't quite pit the pins that difficult like the USGA does, so we'll see what happens.  
  
  Q. Do you hope they will?   
 TIGER WOODS: We'll see what happens. If they don't, you've got to make birdies. If they set it up like a U.S. Open, you don't have to make as many. As you saw with Bill and the rest of the guys, and A.K. today, if you give us these pins, the guys are going to make birdies no matter how firm it is.  
  
  Q. How fun was it playing with A.K. and Rocco the last two days?   
 TIGER WOODS: It was fun. I wouldn't say lots of talking, but lots of listening to Rocco (smiling). But it was a good time, good pairing. Unfortunately, Rocco just didn't play well this week.  
  
  Q. Talk about on 11 and 14, were they bad lies or bad shots?  
 TIGER WOODS: 11, I was trying to get probably just a little too cute with it. A good shot would have gone 10 feet by. I saw what Rock did, hit it up against the back slope there, and I knew it wouldn't come down that far from my angle. So I tried to take a chance and it didn't work out.   
 14, I was on the down slope, trying to play out to the right, trying to leave myself 30 or 40-footer and just fatted it.  
  
  Q. After four birdies in a row, did you feel yourself like, okay, I'm going now, I'm moving? And what kills momentum when you're going like four in a row and then suddenly.   
 TIGER WOODS: I think it's like for instance at 9, I just hit a bomb down there, and I have a simple little 3-wood down there. It's no big deal, only 265 front. Just anything to the left, anything over the left. I could have hit the ball 40 yards left and it would be fine, and I just couldn't put the ball where I put it.   
 Unfortunately, I made par there, and I ended up bogeying 11.  
  
  Q. Is that how you lose momentum?   
 TIGER WOODS: Absolutely. It's a simple little mistake like that where I didn't give myself an opportunity to get up-and-down, and it cost me just a chance to build on what I had already built in the early part of the round.  
  
  Q. Does it feel good to see the ball going into the hole?   
 TIGER WOODS: I did putt well today. I putted well today. I hit a lot of good putts. Yesterday I left myself in bad spots, but I was happy with how many good putts I hit. Hit a few bad ones, but I hit a lot of good ones. Today I was in some better spots.   
 Obviously, the putts here don't break as much as they do in the North. They're not as steep. And I made a few.  
  
  Q. Did you feel like at the end of the day that's as good a round as you could have had given?   
 TIGER WOODS: If you take into account how I lost it, yeah, in the middle part of the round, certainly. It could have easily I could have shot even par. But I got it back to 3-under par which is respectable considering my start.  
  
  Q. In terms of the weekend and your place in the tournament, do you now go to the range? Are you trying to fix what went wrong?   
 TIGER WOODS: Absolutely. I'm going out there right now.  
  
  Q. Is it still part of the process or is that something that came out of nowhere?   
 TIGER WOODS: No, it is what it is. I mean, any time you make changes, you want to go back to your old motor patterns especially when you're under the gun. It's something I've done with all my swing changes and this is no exception.  
  
  Q. Do you have to be patient with yourself?  
 TIGER WOODS: I have to be patient with the process. It's a process. It doesn't happen overnight. I know it's in there because I can hit some really sweet shots like I did at 18, but it's a matter of more work, more reps, and more comfort.  
  
  Q. On 17 (Indiscernible)?  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I hadn't -- yeah.  
  
  Q. Is there any shot that haunts you? Is it the stuck shot?   
 TIGER WOODS: Well, as I said, it's the old motor patterns. It's how the body moves on the way back versus how Foley wants it to move. If I do it correctly, I don't get stuck. The club comes down in front of me. I've got more power. I've got more speed. I hit it further, hitting shots both ways. But if I don't, it's going to be a little more of a steer, and it's not anywhere near as good as what I can do.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, Anthony, I wouldn't say hit it as good as he wanted to. He said he's hit it better in the first two events he's played in. But obviously he's making everything. But if he puts it together on the weekend, he's going to be tough.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT