WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 7, 2010
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  Fourth Round 68 (-7) 281 Total.

 TIGER WOODS: I hit the ball a lot better today. That was tough there on 18, but overall was a very good day. 

 Q. How would you assess your play over the four days? 
 TIGER WOODS: On the middle two rounds, a couple periods where I didn't hit the ball very well and obviously didn't putt very well. But the bookend rounds, I played pretty good. 

 Q. What did you do on 18? 
 TIGER WOODS: 3-putted.

 Q. Did you find anything specific on the back nine there? 
 TIGER WOODS: No. I felt pretty good warming up. And I hit a lot of good shots, and I just didn't get anything going early. But they were all good shots. That was nice. 
 That tee shot there at 8, cost me a bogey, but overall I felt like I've been hitting it well and it's just a matter of being patient.

 Q. If you played like that for four days, would you fancy your chances? 
 TIGER WOODS: I would love to play like that for four days, because as I said, I played well in the bookend rounds. The middle rounds were obviously a little scratchy. 

 Q. Nice going back to an event you've won. 
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, no doubt, even though it's a golf course I haven't been on, that's the only problem. 

 Q. Did you pick Greenie's brains on the course? 
 TIGER WOODS: No, we were fighting to try to shoot a good score today. Looking forward to getting down there.

 Q. How is your body feeling?
 TIGER WOODS: Body feels all right, not great, but good enough. 

 Q. Like to another gold jacket to add to the wardrobe?
 TIGER WOODS: That would be nice. That would be nice. Yeah, what did they say, last year it was catsup and mustard, my shirt and the jacket. (Laughter).

 Q. You have a big day tomorrow in Thailand. 
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, we have a big day. A couple things early in the morning we've got to do, and obviously go out there and play, and it's going to be a fun deal for the people in Thailand. Good pairing, fun, and hopefully we can put on a good show. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT