THE RYDER CUP
October 4, 2010
Stewart Cink
Jim Furyk
Matt Kuchar
Jeff Overton
Bubba Watson
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Obviously not the result you wanted but a hard-fought match. How has your first experience been at The Ryder Cup?
 BUBBA WATSON: It's been fantastic. Miguel made the putts today. I hit a lot of good shots, a lot of great shots. But didn't make any putts. Just didn't make any putts. He chipped in one time but he putted really well and that's the name of the game in these matches, you've got to putt well and the whole team has putted well this week. I just haven't made any putts. 

 Q. Coming down to that final match of Graeme and Hunter, what's going to be key for Hunter coming down the stretch? 
 BUBBA WATSON: Again, putting. You just have to make the putts when you have to and hopefully you know endure the pressure and just make some key putts and that's what the name of the game is. 

 Q. You guys still have a chance coming down the stretch. 
 MATT KUCHAR: It's exciting. I didn't have a whole lot of fun during my match. I got run over. Ian Poulter just played great. I think I only gave him one hole, and I played steady. It's a it tough match when he makes as many putts as he did. It's just really exciting. 

 Q. You were talking the other day, the experience is more than you thought it would be, how much are you looking forward in the future playing in Ryder Cups?
 MATT KUCHAR: Ryder Cup is a big deal. This is certainly my first taste of it and I want a taste of it again, for sure. 

 Q. You played really well in your match, talk about how it was playing the singles? 
 JEFF OVERTON: This whole event has been awesome. I can't describe the emotional feelings you get, especially with all of the crowd, the fans, that come out and support the event. It's a dream come true to be a part of and win or lose, it's all about the sport, and you know, the way that everything is -- the way everything is handled and everything, you know, all the way down the line. It's just really cool to see and to be a part of, it's just a great game and this is one of the best sporting events probably in the world. 

 Q. It will be nice back on home turf, crowd will be behind you a little more. 
 JEFF OVERTON: Absolutely. It's fun over here, too. Their fans are great but we have a few guys out there. There are some Hoosiers and it was really cool to see. 

 Q. Comments about the way you came back in that match? 
 STEWART CINK: I came back, but so did he. I was down early and I came back and got up and really righted the ship and played well. We both played well. You know, I had a couple short putts I missed out there in the second nine that I would like to have back but everybody has a couple of those, and overall though, I was pleased, and pleased not to lose a match in The Ryder Cup. 

 Q. 17, how far was that putt? 
 STEWART CINK: That was about a 6-footer, tricky putt I just misread a little bit and played more break than I needed to and came out on the high side.
 The team came out feeling like we had nothing to lose. We were excited to go and loose and ready and it was a lot to ask. It remains to be seen if anything can happen here. 
 TIGER WOODS: Even though Francesco got off to a quick start, it was 2-up through two, I just kept hanging in there, stayed patient, stayed calm and it worked out in the end. 

 Q. Looks like it might still be an uphill battle but it has gotten close. Your thoughts on what's out there on the course? 
 TIGER WOODS: I don't know yet. I have to go talk to the guys and see what's going on. I've had a little bit on my mind.

 Q. Your observations once you got to the 18th? 
 JIM FURYK: I fought hard. I battled. You know, the start hurt me. I was 3-down through six and I made a mistake on 3, and made bogey, and then he made a couple birdies and outputted me for a while. 
 I battled hard. You know, he did enough to win the match. I needed to make a couple more putts, a little disappointed in the third shot at 18, kind of left myself a tough yardage and had to baby an iron in there and just hung it a little bit right and 3-putted 13. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT