BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 12, 2010
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. I know you must be disappointed you're not going to Atlanta.   
 TIGER WOODS: That's just the way it is. I didn't play well early in the year and I didn't play well in the middle of the year.   
  
  Q. Does having an extra week of preparation at home benefit you going into the Ryder Cup?  
 TIGER WOODS: No doubt. I can get some work in, do some good practicing.  
  
  Q. You left it until the very end, but you knew you had to get off to a fast start.   
 TIGER WOODS: I got off to a slow start. I was 3-over and clawed my way back to 1-under par for the day.  
  
  Q. I know it's disappointing not qualifying for the TOUR Championship if you take a narrow view of things, but in the broader view, I know you're making progress to getting to where you want to be.   
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I didn't play well in the beginning of the year and I didn't play well in the middle of the year. Of late I'm definitely getting along better, and very pleased and looking forward to the future.  
  
  Q. Ryder Cup thoughts?  
 TIGER WOODS: I've got two weeks off to work on my game and get ready and get over there, and the team should be ready.   
  
  Q. Slow start today. Just comment on the overall round for us.   
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I got off to a bad start. I was 3-over through 8. But battled back and shot under par for the day. Good sign.  
  
  Q. Was the round in a way, your last PGA TOUR round of the year, kind of like the year; you struggled, struggled, struggled and kept fighting?  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, got to keep fighting, got to keep battling, and I did that all day today. I'm proud of the fact that I was able to turn my round around and hit a lot of good golf shots after not hitting many starting out.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like that's basically how the year went for you?  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I didn't play well in the beginning of the year and I didn't play well in the middle of the year, and now I'm starting to play well now. I'm headed in the right direction, which is good, a lot of good signs, and I just need to keep working and stay the course.   
  
  Q. How are you going to spend the next two weeks?  
 TIGER WOODS: I'll be at home practicing.  
  
  Q. I know it's a long way away, but are you looking forward to 2011?   
 TIGER WOODS: I've got a lot of tournaments between now and then, which is good. I'm off to the Ryder Cup and then I play in China and Australia and then my tournament, Chevron. So still a lot of events, a lot of rounds to play, and looking forward to them.  
  
  Q. In terms of the Ryder Cup, is not playing the week before good in that if you don't play the week before a big event like that, is that okay? Or would you rather --  
 TIGER WOODS: Obviously I would rather be there. I've played better than I have all this year. But it is what it is. I didn't qualify, and since I'm at home it also gives me two weeks to practice and prepare.   
  
  Q. Just going back to what I was saying earlier, do you feel like you'd like a fresh start, just have some time to get your game together and then come out fresh again?  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I'm looking forward to obviously getting -- I was looking forward to only getting one week break, but now I've got two, and it'll be good because now I can practice at home with Sean in peace and away from everybody and put some work in and also work on my short game and my putting, things I have not been able to do out here. It'll be nice to work on all these little things and concentrate on my game a little bit more and sharpen up, be ready come Friday.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT