BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 11, 2010
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about your round.   
 TIGER WOODS: It was good. I've been building all week. Each week it's getting better, and I haven't been going at it very long under this new system, and I'm very pleased with the progress, and each week has been a step forward in the right direction.  
  
  Q. How much have you actually thought about Atlanta?   
 TIGER WOODS: I just play. That's all I can do. I'm trying to win this golf tournament, and right now I'm eight back. That's always the focus.  
  
  Q. Do you think it might actually be better for you -- you've been playing every week basically straight through since you've taken on this swing thing; if it is a week off next week, do you think it may be --  
 TIGER WOODS: I'm going to have a week off either way, no matter if I have two or not. We'll see what happens. Hopefully tomorrow I can play myself into a round where I can be in contention to win.  
  
  Q. Any idea what you'll have to shoot tomorrow to be there?  
 TIGER WOODS: As of now looks like probably 61, 62 might have to be the number. It depends what the guys do on the back nine. Guys aren't running away with the tournament. The greens are not good enough to do that. So we'll see what happens.   
  
  Q. You've done it here, right? That's got to be worth something.   
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, but we had perfect greens for last year, which was kind of nice. It's a little different this year.  
  
  Q. You weren't happy around the greens yesterday. Today the up-and-down on 7 looked a lot more like you.   
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I missed a few balls in the bunker. My bunker game was a little bit better. Again, I've had to make an adjustment in my short game. I still need a lot of work on my short game because it's a different move than my full swing, but again, your short shot is a microcosm of your full swing, so kind of caught between technique sometimes.  
  
  Q. Did you get some practice with it last night?  
 TIGER WOODS: No, I've just been working in the room trying to make sure I get the full swing situated and hope I don't miss any fairways or greens.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 TIGER WOODS: Oh, very pleased. I'm headed in the right direction. I'm hitting shots that are just so flush and so clean. I'm able to hit the ball through the wind again. That's something I hadn't done in a long time. Just got to stick with it.  
  
  Q. 61 or 62 I think you said might be the number. With these greens how likely is that?  
 TIGER WOODS: I mean, no one is really making a lot of putts out there. It just means you have to hit the ball close. Hopefully I can give myself 18 looks at it and see what happens.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 TIGER WOODS: I wouldn't say a benefit. It's hard because I'm making a complete swing change while playing. That's not easy to do. I'm trying to play a golf course meanwhile, trying to make a lot of different changes, and a change in philosophy, as well, so that's been hard, a hard grind. I'm going to get a week off either way, and hopefully it's only one week.  
  
  Q. Would a break be better to work out all these things?  
 TIGER WOODS: Absolutely.  
  
  Q. Have you been looking at your projected rankings in the FedExCup on the course or after the round?  
 TIGER WOODS: I'm trying to play myself into contention in the event. If I win the event, everything is taken care of. That's what I was trying to do today. I was trying to shoot 6-, 7-under par today. I thought that would be a good number to at least give me a chance at it tomorrow. As of now, now I'm relying on what the leaders do this afternoon and this morning.  
  
  Q. What has been the most difficult part of implementing the new swing?   
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I'm playing events. It's one thing to do it at home and hitting thousands of balls. That's easy to do, go out and shape shots, hit the ball the right number. It's been very difficult.  
  
  Q. As far as the swing itself (indiscernible).   
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I'm playing. That's the problem, that I'm playing. You know, I've thought so far I've done pretty good on making changes and playing at the same time. If I would have had two, three months off to work on it, then it would be a totally different deal.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT