DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 6, 2010
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Could you talk about that, please? Pretty solid round, some nice birdies on the back nine.   
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I hit the ball pretty good all day. I was just missing some putts early, but once I got the speed right, I started making quite a few putts.  
  
  Q. Very nice up-and-down on 18.   
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I got lucky there. I had a great lie. I was just praying that the grandstand wasn't in my backswing because I had a line on which I could play that shot, so it came off pretty good.   
  
  Q. Are you going to be on pins and needles tonight?  
 TIGER WOODS: I think he has my number. No, I'll talk to him this afternoon, give him a call.  
  
  Q. Any plans for 10:30 tomorrow morning?  
 TIGER WOODS: That's what I'm going to call him about.  
  
  Q. If you're invited can you make yourself available for a conference call?  
 TIGER WOODS: I would like to find out first before that happens.   
  
  Q. You talked about making adjustments on the course during the round --  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, that's the biggest thing is I wasn't able to do that at the PGA because I was still learning the new technique basically. This week was a good week. Last week I had it better, didn't quite know all the places, but this week I did. I was able to rectify it during the round, a couple loose shots here and there but was able to fix it right away and hit some good ones.   
  
  Q. How is the Ryder Cup different playing in Europe?   
 TIGER WOODS: Well, on the road it's very different. You get booed a lot, you get jeered, and people say things they probably shouldn't say. It comes from both sides. Unfortunately I've seen it on both sides. They did it with Monty in I think three of the four team matches, so it goes both ways, and I've had that experience and understand how to deal with it and make it a positive thing.   
  
  Q. Talk about the fan support this week.  
 TIGER WOODS: It was incredible. The people were great. They came out in droves this week for the event, supported all the players and really helped me out a lot today.  
  
  Q. I've seen a lot of little kids, five, six years old, they're anxious to meet Tiger.   
 TIGER WOODS: Well, it's pretty neat they came out. This is a great sports area to begin with. They love their sports. They come out here -- we had perfect weather after the storms blew through, and they were really having a great time.  
  
  Q. If you were to get that call from Corey, how meaningful would it be to you to be on the Ryder Cup team?  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I missed the last one because I was hurt, and it would be nice to be on the team. I enjoy playing in the Ryder Cup and going out there against those guys with my teammates and see if we can get it done.  
  
  Q. You said you wish you would have putted better this week. Going into Chicago --  
 TIGER WOODS: I figured something out today which was good. Once I got my speed dialed in I was hitting it, and I think I one-putted the last seven holes, which is a good thing.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 TIGER WOODS: After what I've been through, it doesn't even compare.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 TIGER WOODS: The only other time that was comparable to this was back in '98. I only won one time that year before I kicked in in May of '99, from the Western until somewhere really in May. I think it was Deutsche Bank.   
  
  Q. It looks like you're going to get out of here with your No. 1 ranking still. There were a couple guys in a couple scenarios, Steve if he won and Phil if he dropped one and you finished high enough. Your thoughts on that, five years and running.   
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I've just got to keep playing well. Winning takes care of everything, the World Rankings, Player of the Year Awards, all the trophies and things that come with it. That only happens when you win. Most of my career I've been able to do that, and I just haven't done it this year.  
  
  Q. Were you surprised the scores were not lower out there today?  
 TIGER WOODS: No, the greens are really quick right now, and the downhill holes are really tough to get the ball close. I mean, it's really hard. Even when it's not so bad you can be aggressive, fire at the flags, but downwind it's really tough to get it close.   
  
  Q. Are you looking forward to next week?   
 TIGER WOODS: I am looking forward to it. Cog Hill has been a golf course I've been very comfortable at, ever since my amateur days, so looking forward to going over there.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT