DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2010
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 27 putts, and it's not just the numbers. I thought you were in control of your game.   
 TIGER WOODS: I hit it really good today. Today was kind of how I hit it on Sunday last week as well as Thursday. I missed a few out there today, but all in all, a good score, I think.  
  
  Q. You said you missed a couple but you missed them with really good putts. You couldn't hit a better putt than what you did on 15, but they just didn't go down.   
 TIGER WOODS: I did. The only bad putt I hit all day today was at 16. I just blocked that one. But other than that, I really rolled it well today.  
  
  Q. Is it just golf? Any swing key or anything that you were able to turn it around in 24 hours?  
 TIGER WOODS: No, I just felt better today. I just felt more energetic today and ready to go.   
  
  Q. You said Sunday last week was the best round of the year. How would you compare today?  
 TIGER WOODS: The same way. It was good. I hit it just as good, and I felt better today. I rolled it pretty good. I had one bad putt today at 16, I blocked that one, but other than that I hit so many pure putts.  
  
  Q. How crazy this game is from day to day, what you did yesterday compared to what you did today?   
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I'm in a learning curve still. I'm still learning to put this thing together. I'm going to have off days. Yesterday I started off terrible but I got it back, and I pieced it back together again. That's something that I alluded to in New York that I wasn't able to do at the PGA. It was still too new. But I rectified it yesterday and continued on today.  
  
  Q. And in comparison to last week, you hit a lot of drivers today. How much more comfortable are you with that driver in your hand right now?  
 TIGER WOODS: It's getting better. I've seen more reps. It takes time. Just like this whole change, any change you make, it's going to take time, and just continue to do reps.  
 I hit it good today and made a few putts, which was nice.   
  
  Q. Six birdies, no bogeys.   
 TIGER WOODS: It was a clean card today. Could have been a little bit lower. I missed a few out there, but overall with the wind blowing like this, it's a little bit swirly and a little bit gusty, I feel very pleased with the number I was able to post.  
  
  Q. Do you want it to keep blowing?  
 TIGER WOODS: Absolutely, absolutely. If it doesn't blow, the guys are going to shoot what they shot yesterday, and I'm sure that if it didn't blow at all, the cut would have been 4-under.  
  
  Q. Your hopes for the rest of the weekend?  
 TIGER WOODS: Continue building what I'm building on. Each and every day I'm trying to build on what I'm working on, and it takes time. I'm pleased that yesterday I was able to turn it around yesterday after a poor start, figure out what the changes I need to make in my swing, and I did that, and that continued today.  
  
  Q. At what point did you (inaudible)?   
 TIGER WOODS: I don't know, I was just trying to shoot 8-under for the day.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 TIGER WOODS: After I missed that putt on 16, I thought if I birdied the last three, I would have shot my number.   
  
  Q. How does it feel to have all the support out here?   
 TIGER WOODS: It feels great. It feels great. To have all these people come out here and support this event and support me, as well, it's been phenomenal, it really has.   
  
  Q. At what point in the day did you feel like you were going to have a good day?   
 TIGER WOODS: Well, considering I didn't miss a shot for the first six holes, I hadn't missed a shot, so it was a good start.   
  
  Q. And what was the most important thing you did today?  
 TIGER WOODS: Probably the up-and-down at 8. I flipped it left, and at the time the wind just picked up, so that bunker shot was dead downwind. I landed it on the fringe, which was the only shot I could do, and it ran by about 12 feet and I made it.  
  
  Q. How much did you think about yesterday last night when you went home?  
 TIGER WOODS: Not at all.  
  
  Q. Just threw it away?  
 TIGER WOODS: Didn't think about it at all. Just was hungry.  
  
  Q. Did you feel a little bit more pressure going into today's round than normal?  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I had to shoot a good one if I was going to move on, and I was able to do that today.   
  
  Q. How important are these last two rounds in your Ryder Cup chances?   
 TIGER WOODS: I figure if I play two good rounds and win the tournament, I should be all right. (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. How is 12 playing today?  
 TIGER WOODS: 12 is playing different. It's dead into the fan, maybe a slight bit off the right. I hit a driver and a 6-iron today, whereas yesterday I hit 3-wood and a 9-iron.   
  
  Q. Were you able to generate some momentum for yourself today?  
 TIGER WOODS: As I said to Doug, the first six holes were nice. I didn't miss a shot. I striped it on every shot. To start off that way, that was nice, because I hit three poor shots there at 7, 8, 9 but then got it right back.  
  
  Q. So you're wearing your school colors today, you figure it's got to be a good day?  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, it's always a good day when we're playing.   
  
  Q. What was the key factor, key to your round?   
 TIGER WOODS: I think it's just building what I did yesterday. I turned it around yesterday, got off to a bad start and understood what my fix was going to be. I went with it yesterday and I turned it around, and today just built on that.   
  
  Q. How did you putt today?  
 TIGER WOODS: I rolled it good today, I really did. I had good control of the speed, the pace. I was seeing my line. Only poor putt I had was at 16, blocked that one, but other than that, I really rolled it pretty good today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT