THE BARCLAYS
August 28, 2010
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   TIGER WOODS: Battled through the round and got it back.   
  
  Q. What happened on that hole?  
 TIGER WOODS: Simple, I got caught between the two swings. And I wasn't committed to what I was doing, and I was just -- that's strictly from lack of commitment. And I wasn't focused on exactly what I should have been doing, what I've been doing on the range, what I've been doing the last couple of weeks, and it backfired. And after that I just said, hey, put it away. Be committed to what I'm doing each and every shot for the rest of the day.  
 And I hit the ball really good all day.  
  
  Q. How much of a psychological blow is it when you pump one out of bounds and you have been hitting pretty good and suddenly that comes out of nowhere?  
 TIGER WOODS: In the end, end up probably costing me a chance to win the golf tournament. But I'm pleased how I sucked it up and got it back the rest of the day when it easily could have gone the other way.  
 Hitting a ball like that, it can derail you and it didn't. I got it right back.  
  
  Q. Given the start, pars on 6, 7 and 14?  
 TIGER WOODS: Absolutely. Huge mud ball on 6 -- sorry, on 7. And then big putt there made at 6. I needed to make that putt to not let it slide any further.  
  
  Q. 17 big shots?  
 TIGER WOODS: 17, two 3-woods, and 18, sweet driver, 7-iron there, made a good putt.  
  
  Q. Good to finish like that? I know you started so badly but good to finish with two birdies?  
 TIGER WOODS: I pretty much striped it the entire back nine. Had a couple of mud balls on the back nine but other than that, it was all right.  
  
  Q. Between clubs on 5?  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, it's a tough shot for me. Because I gotta take something off the driver and throw it up. I feel comfortable taking something off and hitting it down. That's easy. I gotta take something off and hit it in the air. The wind wasn't blowing 3-wood for me, 265 front. Wind was in my face.  
  
  Q. The way the playoffs are set up, a good finish tomorrow obviously makes things a lot easier in Boston. You're not so much playing for just getting to Chicago, you got a bit of cushion there. How important are you thinking about having a good round?  
 TIGER WOODS: I'm very excited about what I'm doing, how I'm hitting the golf ball. The shots that I'm hitting, the crispness coming off and how many shots I hit the last three rounds pin high, exactly pin high. That's something I haven't done all year.  
  
  Q. Have you been talking to Sean at all? Have you called him to check on things?  
 TIGER WOODS: Yes. And just keep doing what you're doing. It's very simple.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible) on the range, trying to get all the parts connected, get rhythm back?  
 TIGER WOODS: It's not necessarily rhythm. It's putting my legs and my upper body moving correctly at the right times, the sequence of it. As we all know I can move my hips pretty good but they're moving at the wrong time. So it's just a matter of syncing that all up.  
  
  Q. Any particular drill, have you ever done that?  
 TIGER WOODS: I used to do it all the time but just kind of work off my sock tan.  
  
  Q. Over the last, let's say, four or five years, you played a lot of shots where you play at the middle and you work to the pin. Few shots this week you aim at the middle and it's not really going there, it's moving three inches instead of, you know, six feet. At some point do you feel like maybe I'll just go at it with this swing, where it seems to be less of a --  
 TIGER WOODS: It's one of the neat things about it is I'm covering the ball a lot less. The ball's -- it's more flush and it's tighter. It's a tighter ball flight. It's not as much movement. And you're right, I have been leaning more towards the flags now, because the ball is moving less. And that's a positive thing. That's one of the reasons I'm driving it so much better.  
  
  Q. Do you know how much more -- I tried to ask you this the other day -- I didn't phrase it -- in terms of what Sean's got, whatever, the repertoire is involved, how much more there is for you? Looks like you're doing pretty well here with just going baby steps with it. And how much more buy-in there is for you and who is to say the transition would be days, weeks, a year?  
 TIGER WOODS: I don't know. Just continue down the road. Continue down the process. It's a process. Anytime I've made a change in my golf swing it's a process. And I'm very pleased at what's been going on. And the results are there. I'm driving the ball better than I have in years. And the distance I'm hitting it now, it's amazing.  
  
  Q. Today your putting seemed a lot better. What's behind that?  
 TIGER WOODS: Just trying to be more committed to being still, steady, releasing the blade. Making that toe move. That's always when I putt my best is when I make the toe move. And it felt pretty good today.  
  
  Q. When you changed swings before, has that happened to you before you're caught in between swings?  
 TIGER WOODS: Absolutely. As I said, the two swings I went with Butch, as I said there were years where I didn't play well. And then obviously with Hank it's about 18 months.   
 I've been through all that. And it takes time.  
  
  Q. How do you get through it?  
 TIGER WOODS: Commitment.  
  
  Q. How much of you tomorrow thinks about swing and how much thinks of score?  
 TIGER WOODS: It's both. I have to think of swing because it's not natural yet. But I have to think about what I'm doing to produce a certain shot, where before I could just step up and just hit it. I'm not there yet.  
  
  Q. I guess what I was trying to ask, what's more important for you to achieve tomorrow, something the way you're swinging the club or posting score?  
 TIGER WOODS: Posting score, always.  
  
  Q. Do you appreciate the fan reaction to you, embracing you?  
 TIGER WOODS: Incredible all week. People have been so supportive and so enthusiastic all week. It's a great crowd to play in front of it. It really is, especially today when I made a nice little trip there at the first hole. All the positive things that they said throughout the round to try to get me back, it was pretty sweet.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible) might be in jeopardy halfway through today (inaudible)?  
 TIGER WOODS: No, I was just trying to get back to even par today, that was my entire goal today. I fell off one short.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT