THE BARCLAYS
August 26, 2010
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Palmer shot a 28 out there on the front?  
 TIGER WOODS: For us being first off with fresh greens, everybody in our group was making putts on the front nine. The back nine is a little different for us. A little bit more bouncy, the guys in the afternoon today are going to have a little more of an interesting time than we did, certainly. You had to get it today especially with the wind being down early and then we had fresh greens, so it was good to be out early.  
  
  Q. You seemed to have trouble focusing on the golf course, did you have better focus today how did it manifest itself?  
 TIGER WOODS: I just played today. I went out and played made a few tweaks on the range with my swing. Started off warming up not very good at all. I was hitting it all over the lot but made a couple of tweaks and found what I have been working on and I just told Steve I'm going to be committed to it all day.  
 And I hit it good today.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible)?  
 TIGER WOODS: I did. That's what we're working on. It's a different shift from what I was at working with Hank. So my first time I put it in play was at the PGA. It's not too often you talk to a new coach and work with a new coach right there at a major championship. But that's what I did.  
 But I've had a week and a half of prep time before I teed off here. So at least I knew when I warmed up today those shots I knew what was the cause of it and just had to work myself through and I did it.  
  
  Q. Do you plan to hit as many 3s off the tee with the conditions?  
 TIGER WOODS: It depends on the wind condition. For most of the day the wind was in the right direction to hit three wood off the tee. I could have hit driver a couple more times but I had to take it over corners. I didn't feel comfortable with it. Ball in hand it's more important to get the ball in play. Even if I have a 3 or 4-iron in the fairway I'd much rather have that an a 7-iron in the rough. It's wet and guys aren't getting it to the green. So I just felt that was a better way of playing the golf course today.  
  
  Q. It's been a while since you posted a round like that, how does it feel?  
 TIGER WOODS: It feels good. It feels good to be able to control my ball all day like this. I haven't done that. The one time I hit the ball like this was the nine holes at the U.S. Open, on Saturday. This is how I hit it but I hit it all day like that. I hit it all day today and that feels good. It feels good to have the things I'm working on starting to feel more natural.  
  
  Q. Was it going to be driver all along on the five-and-dime hole?  
 TIGER WOODS: No, it depends on the wind. There were no wind so, for me, I could hit driver. If it turns down, I was telling Steve some of the longer hitters with no wind will have to hit 3-wood out there. It's only 270 to the front. I'm sure Dustin or Bubba would be hitting 3-wood there today.  
  
  Q. Considering you never entered the FedExCup in this position how important was it to get off to a good start today?  
 TIGER WOODS: It was important. I have to play my way into next week. I have to play well this week in order to advance and this is a good start.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT