THE BARCLAYS
August 25, 2010
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   TIGER WOODS: Well, the golf course, I didn't play in '08. So this is my first look at it. I got in last night and I was a little surprised, pleasantly surprised with the golf course. Played long. Obviously it's run and the ball's not going the way -- but it played really long. And the greens. They said it was going to be a pretty tricky golf course, but with this being this soft and balls are backing up with 3-irons and 4-irons, it will be interesting to see how the golf course is with the tees and how much they move it up, if at all. Because some of the holes are playing really long.  
  
  Q. How did you play?  
 TIGER WOODS: I played better. I had some good shots today. Worked on some things, which is good. Pleasantly surprised and pleased the shape of shots I was able to hit today.  
  
  Q. Drive well today?  
 TIGER WOODS: I did.  
  
  Q. How many drivers will you hit out there?  
 TIGER WOODS: It depends. Today I hit a lot of drivers but again they moved it up on three of the tee boxes where 470-yard holes moving them up hitting them with 3-wood and five woods so if they put them back it's quite a few drivers out there.  
  
  Q. Worked with Foley at all?  
 TIGER WOODS: I worked with Sean two times at home. We worked on the same stuff that we worked on at the PGA. And it's just a matter of getting it more solidified. I just need reps and hopefully the weather dissipates, hopefully I can get some reps in this afternoon.  
  
  Q. Have you made the decision now to change your swing?  
 TIGER WOODS: I still haven't officially done it yet. Just because this would be the fourth time I changed my golf swing since I've been on the PGA TOUR and this would be the fourth time I changed my golf swing since I've been on the PGA TOUR and I did some with Butch and with Hank and this would be my fourth one with Sean. So it's an undertaking that I have to wrap my head around because it's going to take some time.  
  
  Q. Tiger, in today's People Magazine Elin describes the end of your marriage like a death where she feels grief, she hopes to forgive one day. I'm wondering, do you still love her?   
 TIGER WOODS: I wish her the best in everything. You know, it's a sad time in our lives. And we're looking forward to -- in our lives and how we can help our kids the best way we possibly can. And that's the most important thing.  
  
  Q. Do you still love her?  
 TIGER WOODS: That's the most important thing.  
  
  Q. Do you think this could be your chance getting your game back together, a lot of speculation about whether --  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, you know, it's one of those things where it's a sad time, what we're going through right now.   
 And as far as my game and practicing, that's been secondary. We're trying to get our kids situated to our new living conditions and how that's going to be. That's where our focus is going to be right now.  
  
  Q. You've been number 1 for five years.   
 TIGER WOODS: Longer than that.  
  
  Q. In hindsight, can you talk about your comeback?  
 TIGER WOODS: I came back. This is part of my job. This is what I do. And it's me coming back and playing golf had nothing to do with our decision to go our separate ways.  
  
  Q. A lost year in terms of golf?  
 TIGER WOODS: A lost year? I don't look at it like that. Every year you have to find the positives. Even though there are a lot of negatives I think that's actually a good thing. Because I learned a lot about myself and how I could become a better person.  
  
  Q. Is it harder than you thought it would be?  
 TIGER WOODS: Playing?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 TIGER WOODS: It was, certainly. Because being asked questions all the time, even after -- even as the tournaments are going I've been asked questions while we're playing. And that's always difficult.   
 And especially when I'm trying to work on a few things, trying to find shots in order to get around the golf course, and to have to talk about other things.  
  
  Q. Concentration on the golf course, was that a problem?  
 TIGER WOODS: You know, at times it was difficult. Certainly you try and block it out as best you can and focus on a shot. But at times it certainly was, yes.  
  
  Q. Do you feel a sense of relief or remorse after Monday finally getting this thing that's been weighing on you for a while?  
 TIGER WOODS: I don't think that's the word. I think it's just more sadness. Because I don't think you ever -- you don't ever go into a marriage looking to get divorced. That's the thing. That's why it is sad.  
  
  Q. Do you have any regrets?  
 TIGER WOODS: What's that?   
  
  Q. Do you have any regrets?  
 TIGER WOODS: My actions certainly led us to this decision. And I've certainly made a lot of errors in my life and that's something I'm going to have to live with.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about the divorce, the paperwork, all that stuff, the preparation.   
 TIGER WOODS: It was a lot more difficult than I was letting on.   
  
  Q. Jim Furyk was disqualified this morning. Was there a rule or do you think it's a bit of a harsh penalty for missing a Pro-Am being disqualified from the event?  
 TIGER WOODS: We had a similar circumstance at Bay Hill when JD [John Daly] from the Pro-Am and three subsequently got DQed because they weren't on the tee. It's tough. It's a new rule. And we don't have to agree with it. But it is our new policy.  
  
  Q. Tiger when you look at this season, do you see a chance here starting this week to salvage things as far as all is concerned? Is this a chance to get you going?  
 TIGER WOODS: I'm trying to get obviously my game in order. Work on some new things, working with Sean. And I'm trying to put that together and hopefully play well for the rest of the year. And as of right now I need to play well to make it to next week. So that's kind of the focus right now.  
  
  Q. Is there a particular focus for you in the FedExCup, what you need to do to move on to the next event and to the end of the Playoffs?  
 TIGER WOODS: I think it's very simple. Winning takes care of everything. So if I win this week, then I'll get into next week.  
  
  Q. As in the past, someone who hasn't played all four of them, would you, if you qualify, play all four, is that where you're at?  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, as of right now I'm going to have to in order to have a chance. So as of right now I'm only guaranteed one. So I need to play well to move forward.  
  
  Q. Was there any part of you with the recent struggles that said maybe I want to take a step back from this and this isn't the most important thing?  
 TIGER WOODS: We've been going through that the entire year. So as I said, this is my job. This is what I do. And trying, as I said, trying to put together some new swing thoughts, working with Sean. And this is going to be obviously a golf course in which you have to drive the ball well. I'm going to have to put together all the things we've been working on and hopefully have it come together.  
  
  Q. Is there a particular week or tournament you played in this summer where it was just incredibly distracting, almost too difficult?  
 TIGER WOODS: There were a few tournaments like that, yeah. Most of the summer was like that. Most of the summer was like that.  
  
  Q. You mentioned getting some reps in; if things don't go well, will you play the Fall Series?  
 TIGER WOODS: I'm going to Asia and Australia. That's kind of where I'm at right now.  
  
  Q. What does it feel like being in this position, having to qualify and move on in this tournament because before you could blow this one off?  
 TIGER WOODS: It's something I haven't been in this position before. And I hadn't played consistently the entire year. I played well in two major championships. And that's about it. So hopefully I can put it together this week so I can move forward.  
  
  Q. Have you played first off the tee before, the first group off? That's a strange position for you to be in.  
 TIGER WOODS: Not in the first two days. First off on Saturday and Sunday, yes, but not the first two days.  
  
  Q. Do you have any response to what Elin's People Magazine interview, describing the grief she felt and the anger and wanting to forgive you?  
 TIGER WOODS: I certainly understand that she is sad. And I feel the same way.   
  
  Q. How much do you like this golf course compared to others in the rotation?  
 TIGER WOODS: I think this is a golf course in which a lot of the pros would like to see us play more often. It's one of the reasons why they love old, traditional-style golf courses. And this is one of them. This is a straightforward golf course.   
 And it's plenty difficult just being straightforward. And if it was dry and fast, this place would be just brutally difficult. But even now with it being soft, I think the real key is whether or not we get to put our hands on the golf ball or not.   
 Are we going to put it up or down because every ball I hit in the fairway had mud on it. With it drying out, the mud's only going to get worse. So we'll see what the staff does.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT