THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
May 31, 2019
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Talk about the day?   
TIGER WOODS: Well, it just was kind of a mixed bag.  I didn't really get anything going today.  I was just kind of plugging along, I just wasn't able to get anything really going.  All of us were watching Rosie get things going on the front nine.  I just wasn't able to make anything happen today.   
 Q.  Which shot are you most disappointed with out there?  
TIGER WOODS: The second shot, by far.  I could hit that ball 50 yards right of the flag and be fine.  Anything inbounds right of the flag I have a chance to make birdie.  I just can't afford to miss it left where that flag is.  And I did.   
 Q.  With that first chip, what were you trying to do?  
TIGER WOODS: The way it was sitting I couldn't play a flop shot.  I thought I might whiff it.  I was trying to hit it in the rough short and have it go actually over the green near the bunker and then pitch back up and make par.  I wasn't trying to hit the ball on the green.  I was trying to his hit it past the flag and didn't do it.   
 Q.  And the second chip?  
TIGER WOODS: The second chip I was trying to get the ball on the green and just take my mess that I just made on the second shot and just try and get out of there with 5 or 6 somehow and have a putt at it, and ended up making 7.   
 Q.  Do you like the way you're swinging?  
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, it was all right.  It wasn't as sharp as I'd like it to be.  I was hitting it flush, but just wasn't hitting it close enough and wasn't giving myself enough looks at birdie on these greens that are this soft.   
 Q.  Do you envision a low one in you tomorrow to get back in?  
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I'm going to have to.  Seems like everyone is bunched together.  I just need a round like what Rosie played today.  He made six straight 3s on the front nine.  I just need to get something going in the front nine where the pins are definitely gettable on the the front nine tomorrow.   
 Q.  On 13 --  
TIGER WOODS: I hit it there, at 14 I had a look to go to 5 and make birdie at 15, go to 6 and all of a sudden I'm 3 back, and now here I am 7 back.  So a round that could have flipped and gone in a positive way didn't do that because of what I did on 15.   
 Q.  How important was it to get a par on 18?  
TIGER WOODS: I don't know how that ball didn't go in.  That was two of them, the 1-over on 6 and the one on 18.  They both hung on the lip.  But look at it this way, there were two missed greens.   
 Q.  What did you hit for your second on 15?  
TIGER WOODS: 5-wood.  I had 38 front and I think 18, 56 total.   
 Q.  You had a few misses to the left?  
TIGER WOODS: I did.  Predominantly my miss today was left.  And yesterday was right.  Hopefully my misses tomorrow will be straight at it.  Just the way it was.  I just really wasn't able to feel as comfortable as I'd like.  But I was hitting it flush.  It really isn't that much that's really that wrong.   
 Q.  Speaking of a big miss, Hank Haney just got indefinitely suspended from SiriusXM for some of the racist comments that he made about the LPGA Tour and the Women's U.S. Open.  Your thoughts?  
TIGER WOODS: He deserved it.  Just can't look at life like that.  And he obviously said what he meant, and he got what he deserved.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT