WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 8, 2010
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about what happened out there today.
 TIGER WOODS: Just not playing well. 

 Q. Do you have to sort of wipe the slate clean for today and sort of look at it as just starting afresh next week? 
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, that's the whole idea. I definitely don't want to start 18 over next week, so it's nice that the tournament is over and we can focus on next week.

 Q. I know it's probably a bad time to ask, but is golf still fun? Are you having fun playing?
 TIGER WOODS: Absolutely not. Shooting 18-over par is not fun. I don't see how it can be fun shooting 18-over, especially since my handicap is supposed to be zero.

 Q. Are you able to stay in a positive frame of mind through this? Does it get increasingly difficult given everything?
 TIGER WOODS: It's tough. Yeah, it's tough. 

 Q. Anything about your game that you're positive about?
 TIGER WOODS: The only thing I can say all week is I was patient, and unfortunately that's not enough. 

 Q. What's going on with a shot like 7? Coming in too steep? 
 TIGER WOODS: Club is behind me, I lower, then try and whip it out in front of me, but it's too late.

 Q. You come in too steep to it?
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, actually it's behind me so it's too shallow, and then I've got to whip out in front of me, but if I lower it at the same time, it's not a good combo.

 Q. Can you ever remember struggling to quite this extent during your professional career?
 TIGER WOODS: Absolutely. I went through something like this when I changed my swing in '98 and '99, second half of '97. I had periods where it wasn't very good.

 Q. You'd have to go back that far?
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, yeah, because even when I was struggling right before I went with Hank, it wasn't quite this bad. But when I kind of tore my swing apart with Butch after basically the Masters in '97, it took me two years to get it back before I started playing well.

 Q. There were a lot of positive signs from AT&T even though you didn't score very well, and St. Andrews, as well. What was it that just didn't click this week compared to the way it was trending?
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I was hitting the ball really well those two weeks. I was driving it great. I didn't drive it at all this week. My irons weren't very good again, and I made nothing.

 Q. Would you be pleased if there was not a major next week and you had two weeks off or are you sort of relishing the thought of going in some sort of way?
 TIGER WOODS: Well, it is what it is. I've got to be ready come Thursday, that's all that matters.

 Q. Do you get right out there tomorrow?
 TIGER WOODS: No, not tomorrow. I'm out there today. I could probably play 18 and still watch the guys finish (laughter).

 Q. What does it need to turn it around, is it just hard work?
 TIGER WOODS: I need to hit the ball better, I need to chip better, I need to putt better, and I need to score better.

 Q. Did this week's performance shock yourself?
 TIGER WOODS: No, no.

 Q. But it was unexpected after the way you played the last two. 
 TIGER WOODS: No, it doesn't surprise me at all actually.

 Q. Do you want to play in the Ryder Cup?
 TIGER WOODS: Not playing like this, definitely not, not playing like this. I mean, I wouldn't help the team if I'm playing like this. No one would help the team if they're shooting 18-over par.

 Q. Would you pick you right now if you were the captain?
 TIGER WOODS: I think I can turn it around, but we've got a lot of time between now and then, which is good. 

 Q. Are you tempted to take another break from the game, maybe play next week and then --
 TIGER WOODS: I don't know, I'm just going to be ready for Thursday.

 Q. At this point you're only into the Barclays in points so that break might come involuntarily. 
 TIGER WOODS: I need to be ready by Thursday.

 Q. You said you're not surprised. We're all surprised. Why were you not surprised?
 TIGER WOODS: It's been a long year. 

 Q. Do you think it's more mental?
 TIGER WOODS: It's been a long year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT