WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 5, 2010
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. General thoughts and perceptions?   
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I didn't play well. Only thing I did good today is I kept my patience out there, grinded all day, and that was the best I could have done today.   
  
  Q. There was obviously a lot of struggles off the tees today. You tried to fix it, I think, midway through there and tried to stop the left shot and then it started going right.   
 TIGER WOODS: Right. Well, I didn't mind the left balls at all because at least they started left. I didn't have a problem with that. I didn't like the right balls because I couldn't start the ball left. I tried all day until the very end, I started driving it good. Last three holes I hit some good drives, but the majority of the day I didn't.   
  
  Q. What do you put it down to? Obviously you haven't played in a few weeks, but --  
 TIGER WOODS: It's not that. I just didn't play well. I just didn't get off to a good start obviously. I was 2-over through 2, two easy holes, and from then on, I didn't hit any good putts, either. I was struggling on the greens and didn't hit any good iron shots. Probably hit about two good iron shots all day today. That's definitely not enough.  
  
  Q. Was the course there for the taking?  
 TIGER WOODS: Absolutely. It's soft. The fairways are running, but they're not out-of-control fast. They're still giving it up a little bit. But still, the greens are really soft and you can go after just about every flag. 5-irons and 4-irons are still holding so it was a day you could be aggressive if you played better than I did.  
  
  Q. Are you surprised or did you feel pretty good coming in?  
 TIGER WOODS: I did. I did. It's frustrating because I warmed up well, my practice sessions at home were good, and today was not indicative of how I've been playing.   
  
  Q. This is probably the furthest back you've ever been here, but what are you going to do now?   
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I've just got to hopefully tomorrow get it to even par or under par for the tournament and then hopefully put together a good weekend and see where that puts me.   
  
  Q. Is this an example of the venue doesn't really matter if you don't have it? Obviously you've had so much success here. I don't think you've ever shot a score this high on this course as a pro. It doesn't really matter if you don't have it going?  
 TIGER WOODS: Just because I like the golf course doesn't mean I'm going to play well on it. You know, unfortunately that's not the case. You still have to execute, and I didn't do that today. I did not execute the shots that I wanted to execute today, didn't shape the ball the way I wanted to shape it, and certainly did not putt well.   
  
  Q. Is the goatee going to last until tomorrow do you think?  
 TIGER WOODS: I don't know. We'll see. We'll see.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT