THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2010
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Can you compare the back-to-back 73s? 
 TIGER WOODS: I hit it good today. I mean, I striped it all day. I just didn't get anything out of the round. I couldn't build any momentum, wasn't making any putts today, and once I got it going just a little bit, I thought, I had back-to-back three-putts at 13 and 14. 

 Q. Are you surprised with your putting this week, as well as you've fared on these greens? 
 TIGER WOODS: Well, yeah, I putted well the first day. I made a lot of putts the first day. Yesterday obviously with the wind, I don't think anyone made a whole lot of putts. But today, today was -- ball is oscillating a little bit, but it was a little bit calmer than it was yesterday, and certainly should have had better speed than I did today.

 Q. Were you trying to make something happen on 5 with the second shot? 
 TIGER WOODS: Well, you know, it's just one of those things where I stripe it right down the middle and I've got this slope I've got to deal with. I thought I could get a 3-wood into the ball and from there I can two-putt from down at the base of the bowl. I hit a 3-wood. Started it probably about 40 yards left of the green and ended up in the right gorse. A little bit of wind.

 Q. If there's one thing that gets you over the hump, what would it be?
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I've just got to get off to a quick start. Today I had a makeable putt at 1, had a horseshoe on 2, had a makeable putt at 3. If those go in, it's a whole different ballgame. That's what the guys are doing at the top of the board. They get off to quick starts. If you're able to do that here and get off to an early start, especially before you get to 5, you've got 5, 6 and 9 are playing pretty easy, so you can make something up right there.

 Q. Within the game itself, though, would it be putting, short game? What would be the one thing that you'd like to see a little better?
 TIGER WOODS: Well, ironically enough now I'm driving it beautifully and I'm not making any putts. It's just one of those things where you just have to be patient. I was grinding, I was as patient as I possibly could be today, and I was just trying to plod my way along and just didn't get anything going.

 Q. Do you think it has anything to do with the new stick at all?
 TIGER WOODS: No, no, I just need to have better speed.

 Q. Given the dominance of the Americans here over the recent past, are you surprised there's not a little more red, white and blue on the board? It looks like the European Ryder Cup team right now. 
 TIGER WOODS: I haven't even looked. We all know them as just players. 

 Q. What do you expect tomorrow? 
 TIGER WOODS: I don't know. Depends on the weather. I don't know what's going to happen. The forecast is for it to be windy and possibly a few showers here and there, but you don't know. We'll see what happens. 

 Q. Louis is up there with a 10-shot lead right now. That's quite a hill to climb, isn't it?
 TIGER WOODS: It is, certainly it is. But you just don't know what the weather is going to do. As Louis had it yesterday, he played 16 out of 18 holes downwind. You need to have things like that happen, and hopefully tomorrow things like that will happen and I can get some kind of momentum going early.

 Q. Confidence still high? 
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I'm playing well. I'm playing better than obviously my position. I certainly have had a lot more putts on the greens than I ever have, and that's something that has basically kept me out of being in the final few groups.

 Q. So your overall summary is your game is good, it's just your putting?
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah.

 Q. Is it difficult to focus on your own game when you're playing with a good pal like Darren and you're obviously having a good time out there?
 TIGER WOODS: No, we're both focusing, we're both playing, we're both grinding, both trying to fight our way and get back in this tournament. With these conditions, it's tough out there. Granted, we're great friends, but still, we're competitors out there. We're both trying to get ourselves back in the golf tournament so we can have a chance at winning it tomorrow. 

 Q. Was it hard to have fun because of the conditions out there and enjoy the round, as well?
 TIGER WOODS: Well, it's fun being in a competitive environment. That's the fun of it. That's why we practise all these years to put ourselves in this position so that we're in this environment, and it is a lot of fun. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT