THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2010
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about your round a little bit.   
 TIGER WOODS: It was calm out there all day (laughter), just like it was yesterday morning. No, it was a tough day. It was a tough day for everybody out there. Unless you timed the wind just right with your tee times, you were going to get some pretty good wind and usually into your face.  
  
  Q. Is that a lucky wind blowing 18 shot there?  
 TIGER WOODS: I hit a good one, I was just trying to get it up there and give myself a chance of making 4, and gave myself a good chance of making 2.  
  
  Q. What did the wind delay do you to you?  
 TIGER WOODS: We thought it might give us a break, and we might come out there with less wind and have a chance at posting some pretty good numbers; that wasn't the case. It was blowing just as hard when we came back out, especially when we got out towards the loop. They were saying it's a hole-by-hole scenario. They could call it at any time, but they didn't, even though it was blowing pretty good.  
  
  Q. How does this compare to the toughest conditions you've ever played in? Does it rank up there with Muirfield?  
 TIGER WOODS: No, Muirfield was rain and colder.  
  
  Q. How about Birkdale?  
 TIGER WOODS: I had knee surgery.  
  
  Q. Is this the nature of the beast just the fact that they're asking about the other British Opens? Is this the nature of the beast at the British Open, that weather is going to be a factor?  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, you just have to go out there and deal with it, whether you're on the good end of the draw or not the good end, you just have to go out there and play and gut it out.  
  
  Q. You always talk about grinding in these kinds of situations. Was this sort of one of the ultimate-type grinds?  
 TIGER WOODS: It was. It was very difficult out there. The ball was oscillating on the fairways. A couple times I backed off. I thought it might move. Rosey hit one fat on 3 because he thought it was moving, but it was just oscillating pretty hard. So it was tough out there. You just had to deal with it, and again, just be very patient.  
  
  Q. Talk about the overall picture of the tournament.   
 TIGER WOODS: Right now I'm eight back, so we'll see. Again, tomorrow is supposed to be another windy day and maybe some rain on Sunday. We've still got some pretty good golf ahead of us.  
  
  Q. Do you like your position?  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I'm not exactly where I want to be. I'm not 12-under par, but I'm at 4-under, I'm eight back, and today was a day I could have easily shot myself out of the tournament, especially the start I got off to, but I put it back together again and pieced together a pretty good round.  
  
  Q. Were you talking to the officials saying that you'd like to come off?  
 TIGER WOODS: No, we were just asking, just asking them, because we thought -- if they would have called it before we would have putted on 1, our putts were impossible on 1 because of the wind. It was blowing so hard. Rosey's putt wasn't a bad putt, wind gets it and it's 18 feet left of the hole. That's kinds of what we were thinking might happen out towards the loop, so we were just asking are they contemplating it, and they said yes, it's a hole-by-hole basis.  
  
  Q. State of your game midway point, is it progressing the way you'd like?  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I hit the ball well today, a lot of long lag putts. Lag putts were very difficult out there, moving all over the place. Putter was dancing all over the place on the backswing. You had to get anchored somehow and try and stay stable. It was just a very difficult day.  
  
  Q. Did you have any putts move before you hit them, ask for rulings?  
 TIGER WOODS: No, no rulings on my count. Ball was oscillating, though, quite a bit, but that's just normal.  
  
  Q. When you saw the conditions early on when you came out, did you have a goal in mind? Do you feel good about the way you held it together?   
 TIGER WOODS: Well, we didn't get what Louis got. He got it 16 holes downwind. We didn't quite get that out there. That's just the way it goes. If you get a good break you have to capitalize on it. He certainly did. For everyone else, we had to grind it out, gut it out. You can have good shots and end up in bad shots, and hit some bad shots and end up in awful spots, it's just that kind of day.  
  
  Q. Where does this rank in terms of you play a lot of majors, how tough is this in terms of other majors you've played?  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, the R & A made a concerted effort not to have the pins as easy as they did yesterday because they thought the weather was going to come in yesterday, but it came in today with the tougher pins. It was certainly one of the tougher days I've ever played, yeah.  
  
  Q. How about the guys you have to chase at the top? And old Calc hanging in there?  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, Calc played well today, a beautiful round of golf. Right now I'm eight back, 36 holes to go, some weather coming in, and it's going to be a tough 36 holes. Again, you're going to have to show a lot of patience, hit the ball well, and as I said earlier in the week, you've got to lag putt well.  
  
  Q. The fact that you've been through this so many times, the Muirfield experience which had to be heart breaking because of the situation you were in, but the fact you've been through this before, do you feel you can deal with the frustration of the weather as well as anyone?  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, we've all played in bad conditions. If you've played professional golf long enough or even amateur golf, you're going to play in some bad stuff. You've just got to deal with it. Everyone is out there, everyone is dealing with the wind, and everyone is playing the same golf course. Just got to go out there and execute.   
  
  Q. Under the circumstances one of your best rounds of the year? I know not score-wise, but just getting the ball around?  
 TIGER WOODS: Absolutely. Absolutely.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT