AT&T NATIONAL
July 3, 2010
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Still grinding it out?
 TIGER WOODS: Always, always.

 Q. Did you feel by this time you would have a better feel for being able to score out there? 
 TIGER WOODS: Um, I got off to just an awful start today. I mean, it was probably the worst start you could possibly get off to. I kept making mistake after mistake. 
 But I turned it around there starting at 8, hit a nice shot in there. From then on I hit some really good shots. Hit a couple bad drives, but a lot of good iron shots coming in. I actually thought every putt I hit coming in I hit on my line with the right pace, and that's something I hadn't done yet this week.

 Q. Do you think that's because you didn't have a good sense of the greens?
 TIGER WOODS: No, it was more mechanical. It was more mechanical for sure. I kept blocking putts the first two days, and today I finally got it to where I could release the blade again. 

 Q. Talk about what you did today. 
 TIGER WOODS: I was able to -- especially coming in I was able to start shaping the golf ball. Starting at 8, hit a nice little draw in there, punch draw, and then I hit a nice full fade into 14 and I hit a nice full fade into 17. It was nice to be able to shape the ball like that.

 Q. Was it a matter of concentration, like the shot on 6?
 TIGER WOODS: That was awful, wasn't it? That was just awful. I was trying to hit a low ball in there, trying to scoot it up that hill, and I was not committed to where I was going to land it, and lack of commitment, ended up hitting the ball fat.

 Q. Did you feel the crowd behind you cheering you on? Are you feeling that?
 TIGER WOODS: Absolutely. The people here are just fantastic. I mean, so enthusiastic about the tournament. They come out -- the weather has been absolutely perfect, though. So to have the people come out and -- I take that back, they came out early this morning. Unfortunately I was playing early, but it was great to have them out there, and hopefully they'll be out there tomorrow, as well.

 Q. Do you find that helps you a little bit, having people kind of there?
 TIGER WOODS: No doubt, no doubt. It was nice to get that kind of support, especially since I got off to such a terrible start. I was 3-over early. And to have the people cheer you on and really want you to play well is really a good feeling. 

 Q. Does that ever get old? 
 TIGER WOODS: No, it doesn't, it doesn't. The support doesn't get old, wanting people to come out here supporting and wanting to watch you play well. Unfortunately I didn't do that until towards the end. 

 Q. (Indiscernible.)
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I was hoping I could shoot 64 today. That would have been a good number. As far as where the pins were today, I just felt the leaders weren't going to go running off and hiding, and 64, 63 today would have put me right back in the ballgame. 

 Q. As far as your putting, where did you find it? 
 TIGER WOODS: The putt I hit there at 8, either I was going to make that putt or that putt was going to be in the water. So it was one of those two. 

 Q. If they would like to host a PGA Championship here, would you say hands down they could put it on here?
 TIGER WOODS: Absolutely they could. I think the only thing that would be lacking is the distance. But if they narrow up these fairways, I mean, this is playing very similar to what a Merion would be. I think that would be the only difference. 

 Q. You have one more competitive round before you go to the next major. Do you feel better about your game going into the British than you did going into the Open? 
 TIGER WOODS: No doubt. The more tournaments I play this year, I'm getting better. The feel is getting better. I feel more comfortable with what I'm working on, and I'm just going out there and playing in a competitive environment because it's so much more comfortable than it was at the beginning of the year. 

 Q. Can you talk about what you've been working on yourself?
 TIGER WOODS: A lot of things.

 Q. Can you be more specific?
 TIGER WOODS: A mix of everything.

 Q. Did you consider any other clubs for your third shot at 1?
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, one was either sand wedge, which I hit, or take something off a pitching wedge. It was a -- a full sand wedge there I thought would have put me flag high. I wedge I would have had to take something off it.

 Q. (Indiscernible.)
 TIGER WOODS: Starting out it was not very good. It was bad early. But from 8 on in I hit some good shots.

 Q. I was talking to Jim Furyk this morning and he said it's a tough course to step on it when you're behind, so were you trying to be overly aggressive on this golf course or trying to be patient?
 TIGER WOODS: No, I was trying to be patient, trying to pick my spots, and I just kept making mistake after mistake. These pins today are really tough. I mean, you have to position the ball well. It's fun. It's like playing a major championship.

 Q. You love the feeling of being in contention out here. What's it like to play early on a Saturday morning?
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I felt if I could shoot 64, 63, I could get back in the ballgame. Especially since these pins were so difficult today, I thought the leaders weren't going to go run off and hide. It was going to be a tough day for the guys to really shoot a low number, and I thought that would put me at least in the Top 10.

 Q. I know you're the world's No. 1 player and you've never played professionally here. It's a holiday weekend. What was it like out there?
 TIGER WOODS: It was incredible. The fans came out and really supported it. This place has been like this the entire week. They were out here on Tuesday. The atmosphere is incredible, and these people are just into it. It's fun to play in front of them. Especially since I got off to such a terrible start today, it was nice for them to be cheering me along and trying to get me back in the ballgame. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT