THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
June 4, 2010
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tiger, aside from that bogey on your final hole, pretty happy with your round? 
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, it was decent today. I hit more good shots today than I did yesterday and really putted well today. I had five lip-outs today, so it could have been a pretty good number. 

 Q. You talked yesterday about how you've only played ten rounds this year. Each time you go out, do you feel more comfortable? 
 TIGER WOODS: It's just that, you know, I get more rounds, more competitive rounds. 
 As I said, usually most guys are at this point in January. Here we are in June, and I'm at the point which most guys are beginning of the year. So it's just one of those things where the more times, the more good shots I hit, keep building, and it's a process. 
 As I said, I hit more good shots today than I did yesterday. 

 Q. Tiger, what are you going to do next week? Obviously, you need at-bats and rounds and innings and whatnot with Pebble. Go out early and try to get rounds. You're a little behind, I would guess, developmentally from where you would be preferably. 
 TIGER WOODS: Doesn't matter how many rounds out there you play, it's not going to simulate a tournament. 

 Q. Right. 
 TIGER WOODS: So just practice. 

 Q. Do you think you might get out there early before tournament week or just show up the week of? At Pebble, I mean. 
 TIGER WOODS: I know we can't be out there Wednesday. I know that. 

 Q. Wednesday prior? 
 TIGER WOODS: They got that tournament tournament. 

 Q. That's right. How was the course today compared to yesterday? 
 TIGER WOODS: Fairways were soft. Guys are picking up mud. I mean, I had four or five mud balls out there today. Stricker got a bad one there at 7. 
 But the greens are unbelievable how fast they are, considering that we've had so much rain. 
 You know, you've got to position the ball below the hole. Get it above the hole, and you're going to have some dicey putts. You've got a point now where the greens are at such a speed where you can't short side yourself. You're going to make bogeys when you do that. 

 Q. Now that you've made the weekend, do you start thinking about what you need to do competitively to get in this thing? 
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I think, because I played Wednesday at the shootout, making the cut, I think I get a pension cut, which is good. 

 Q. Tiger, Rickie, 65, 66. 
 TIGER WOODS: That's great playing. That's great playing out here. You know, we all know he's got the talent to do it. It's just a matter of him doing it. 

 Q. Do you feel a little bit like these kids now -- there were kids -- maybe still kids to you. Do you feel like they're coming along now? Their game is getting to the point where now we see them winning? 
 TIGER WOODS: Well, they've got to do it consistently. You've got to win a few times, and they're just getting started. 
 My group of guys that I competed against, the Ernies, the Phils, the Vijays, the Gooses, we went at it for over a decade together, and so it's just a matter of these guys getting out there. 
 It's the same group of guys. You see they're all about the same age. It will be cool to see the next ten years how that all turns out. 

 Q. Rickie at 13 under. Tiger, how low do you think the winner can go here this week? 
 TIGER WOODS: I don't know. I don't know. Because, as I say, if you don't hit the ball well here, you get the ball on the short side, you're making bogeys. The greens are a speed now where you just have to hit the ball well. You can't hit the ball in the wrong spots. 
 When they get up to the speed like this, it shrinks, the pin locations really shrink. 
 So the way he's playing, you never know. 

 Q. Tiger, he said he got to hang out with you a little bit at Grand Cypress when you did the TV deal. What are your impressions? He's obviously no shrinking violet or lacking confidence, from what I've seen. 
 TIGER WOODS: He's very quiet, very quiet. And we got a few exchanges here and there, but mostly the way the set was, it was mostly Poulter and I together. Rickie was usually with Eduardo. So we didn't get a chance to really hang out that much. 

 Q. Tiger, off the track here, but it's 30 years since "Caddyshack" came out. 
 TIGER WOODS: Is it really? 

 Q. Yeah. Remember the first time you saw it and how many times you think you watched it since? 
 TIGER WOODS: I don't remember the first time, but I certainly didn't watch it when I was 4. 
 As far as how many times, I'd have to say pretty close to a hundred by now. 

 Q. You got some favorite lines? 
 TIGER WOODS: I've got a bunch of lines I loved. But it's just like -- for some reason you kind of remember more times you go through and you kind of remember old lines and things that -- I don't know. It's the little things. That's what makes the movie so great. 

 Q. Have you worn out the DVD on it yet? 
 TIGER WOODS: I'll just buy another one. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT