PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2019
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TIGER WOODS: Well, I'm not playing the weekend.  That's disappointing.  Just didn't quite -- just didn't quite have it.   
 Q.  Do you feel like the practice was there --  
TIGER WOODS: No, no, no.  Definitely not.  You know, I'm the Masters Champion and 43 years old and that's a pretty good accomplishment.   
 Q.  What about practicing --  
TIGER WOODS: It's just the way it goes.  It's just the way it goes.  You know, just don't feel well and just not able to do it.  But resting would be better, so I would have energy to play.  You know, unfortunately I just didn't -- made too many mistakes and just didn't do the little things I need to do.  You know, I had a couple three-putts.  I didn't hit wedges close.  I didn't hit any fairways today.  Did a lot of little things wrong.   
 Q.  It was always going to be hard to back up your emotional high.  
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, well, it's a nice problem to have.  You know, so I've enjoyed being the Masters Champion again, and the PGA was a quick turnaround, and unfortunately I just didn't -- I just didn't play well.  As I said, I didn't do all the little things I need to do correctly to post good scores and put myself in position to shoot good scores.   
 Q.  You've obviously played and seen some incredible rounds of golf.  Where do those back-to-back rounds from Koepka rank?  
TIGER WOODS: What Brooksy did, he's driving it 330 yards in the middle of the fairway.  He's got 9-irons when most of us are hitting 5-irons, 4-irons, and he's putting well.  That adds up to a pretty substantial lead, and if he keeps doing what he's doing, there's no reason why he can't build on this lead.   
The golf course is soft enough where the power helps.  So when he did miss the fairway, I missed it far enough down there where he was still able to hit wedges and 9-irons on the green, and on top of that, he missed on the correct sides.  So he had good angles.   
TIGER WOODS: You know, relative to the field, I was about that long, early in my career.  You know, when you're able to hit the ball much further than other players, and get on the right golf courses where setups like this is penalizing if you are a little bit crooked, and if he does miss it, as I said, he misses on the correct sides, and he's far enough down there to where he was able to get the ball on the green and he did all the little things right.  He had the good angles.  He missed the ball in the correct spots, and it adds up to a big lead and as I said, there's no reason why he can't increase this lead.   
 Q.  Is there something you need to do--  
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, open the field a little better -- that's first and foremost.  If I get that going a little better, start training and start practicing again and get back up to speed.   
 Q.  What's the level of -- for Brooks --  
TIGER WOODS: Well, not only the four out of eight, but also it's the journey that he's -- to get to where he's at, to go to The Challenge Tour, The European Tour, he paid his dues.  He found a game and a dedication that he needed to play well and he's doing that.   
And everyone's different.  Everyone peaks differently and does things differently, and he's found what he needs to do for himself, and at, what is he, 29?  He's got many more years ahead of him where he can do this.   
 Q.  (No mic.)  
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, there's no reason why I can't get up to speed again and crank it back up.  I've got to start feeling a little bit better first before that happens.  We'll do that first and then start cranking it back up again.   
I just wasn't moving the way I needed to.  That's the way it goes.  There's going to be days and weeks where it's just not going to work, and today was one of those days.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT