QUAIL HOLLOW CHAMPIONSHIP
April 30, 2010
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Just one of those really tough days out there, wasn't it?
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I didn't play well, and more importantly my short game wasn't very good. I chipped poorly, putted poorly, but for the most part I didn't really hit the ball that poorly until the end when it was already pretty much out of reach.

 Q. You were grinding really hard on that whole stretch of 10, 11, 12; that's when the bad stuff started happening, isn't it?
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, 10 was a pretty big deflator right there because I hit a 3-wood there and missed clearing the bunker by about a foot and ended up making bogey on a hole that I should have made a birdie, so that hurt a lot.

 Q. What's the plan next week going into THE PLAYERS? 
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I get the weekend off, so I get to watch and see how it's done. 

 Q. How did it go wrong today?
 TIGER WOODS: A lot of things. I didn't play that poorly on the front nine. My short game was terrible. I putted bad. I had two three-putts in a row and didn't get up-and-down at 6. So that kind of hurt. I kind of battled my way back and had a good chance going into the back nine and missed carrying the bunker by about a foot on 10, probably should have made birdie and ended up making bogey and went from there.

 Q. These two days, was it rust or mechanics? 
 TIGER WOODS: It is what it is. Whatever it was, it wasn't good enough.

 Q. What are you going to do the next couple days before you go to Ponte Vedra Beach?
 TIGER WOODS: Practice a little bit. It'll be interesting because I'll probably get home and hit balls on the range and I'm going to have to get up there to Ponte Vedra a little early to putt because Isleworth is all torn up. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 TIGER WOODS: I'm hitting the ball actually pretty decent, and I made three pretty bad mistakes around the greens that ended up costing me three shots.
 Going to the back nine, 10 hurt a lot because I missed carrying the bunker by about a foot. It would have been perfect. Instead of walking away with 4, I walked away with 6, and that turned the whole round around.

 Q. For this unbelievably low amount of times that you've missed the cut, how shocking is it to go home for the weekend? 
 TIGER WOODS: I went home last year once, and it is what it is. 

 Q. You always say try as hard as you can on every single shot. (Indiscernible.)
 TIGER WOODS: It's frustrating. I didn't have much. At that point in time it was pretty much out of reach, and I was just trying to stay out of Angel's way. He's the one who's leading the golf tournament, and that's kind of what you're supposed to do.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 TIGER WOODS: I was pretty calm, actually, because I was -- there's nothing you can do. I had to eagle out, but that's not going to happen.

 Q. Throughout your career you've been maybe the best at coming to a golf course and focusing on golf. No matter what's going on, you're there in the moment. How much has what's been going on in your private life now really coming into your golf?
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I get asked every day. Every day I do media, I get asked it, so it doesn't go away. Even when I'm at home, paparazzi still follow us, helicopters still hover around. Does it test you? Yes, of course it does. Is that any excuse? No, because I'm out there and I have the same opportunity as everybody else here in this field to shoot a good number, and I didn't do that.

 Q. Does it feel like you're that far off?
 TIGER WOODS: No, it didn't, but my short game was terrible. I three-putted there twice back-to-back, and you can't do that. I didn't get up-and-down at 6 and chipped the ball off the green at 7. Those shots, you're just throwing away shots when you do stuff like that.

 Q. Does it stay with you or do you let it go?
 TIGER WOODS: You have to let it go. It's like baseball, you go 0 for 4 two days in a row like I did, you've got a whole new tournament next week, which is great. 

 Q. How much does missing the cut bother you?
 TIGER WOODS: It does bother me, no doubt. But at least I get the weekend to watch and see how it's done, how real players play golf, and hopefully I can piece it together for next week and be ready to go. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT