QUAIL HOLLOW CHAMPIONSHIP
April 29, 2010
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. The first tee shot was like 320 was right down the middle, and I thought here we go, but the driver wasn't working today, was it?
 TIGER WOODS: It wasn't the driver, it was everything. I had a two-way miss going, which was great, all day.

 Q. You did get it back to plus 1, made some birdies on your second nine. Did you ever feel any sense of momentum out there?
 TIGER WOODS: No, not at all. Not the way I was missing it today.

 Q. What will you work on today?
 TIGER WOODS: Not a damn thing. I'm just going to go hang it up today and come out tomorrow. 

 Q. How big was that birdie to stop the bleeding after 17, 18, and 1?
 TIGER WOODS: Not really. It was a terrible day to begin with. 

 Q. Did you feel anything on the range this morning that you thought maybe you would be struggling? 
 TIGER WOODS: No, I just didn't have it today. 

 Q. When you come back from those 17, 18 and 1, the resolve is still there; what is it that makes you be able to get through a stretch like that? 
 TIGER WOODS: I figured if I got it back to even par I'd only be four or five back of the lead. Right now the lead is at 6, and it looks like second place is at 4. I'm still six back from second place. As of right now, that's not too bad.

 Q. What were your feelings this morning compared to the way you felt on the first tee a couple weeks ago at Augusta?
 TIGER WOODS: Same, trying to hit the ball down the fairway and trying to give myself a second shot. 

 Q. How much was your patience tried today?
 TIGER WOODS: Quite a bit. I didn't hit the ball very good at all today. I had a two-way miss with everything today. Two balls in the water, and pretty much struggled all day.

 Q. Front nine, your second nine, you got it back to +1. How do you characterize how it ended?
 TIGER WOODS: I chose the wrong club on the last hole there. The wind came up, and I thought I could take something off a 4 and hit it over the green. It should have been just 5, put it in the center of the green, two-putt and move on, but I didn't do it.

 Q. How would you characterize how you're being received by the galleries?
 TIGER WOODS: Oh, they're incredible. The fans here all the years I've been here have been extraordinary, and today with it being 50 degrees this morning or 45 degrees, for them to come out there and support us was pretty cool.

 Q. What did you hear today in particular, you? 
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I had my head down struggling. I was dropping balls out of hazards and finding balls in trees, so I had my own issues out there.

 Q. The tee shot on 17, is that as much a product of just not having the reps, so to speak?
 TIGER WOODS: No, that was just a bad shot.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 TIGER WOODS: The fairways are hard to hit out here. There's not going to be a lot of guys hitting a lot of fairways here. Never have been, not with them cut down and fast like this. You'll see most of the guys be pretty aggressive; Angel especially today, he's driving every hole because there's really no rough down there. If you get it going that way, you can get it going pretty good. 

 Q. I know you're frustrated with your play, but the positive fan reaction; I know you were surprised at the Masters. Is it therapeutic for you to be out here amongst all this positivity even with what you've been through?
 TIGER WOODS: I'll tell you what, I would like to say yes. I was struggling so bad today, I didn't know which way I was going to go, whether I was going left or right. I didn't really hear much to be honest with you, I was struggling so bad out there. I was just trying to piece together a round to keep myself in the tournament. As of right now I'm only six back of second, and one good round tomorrow can get me right back in.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 TIGER WOODS: I don't remember, sorry. As I said, I had a lot of issues out there trying to figure out where my balls were going to go. I hit a bunch of balls left, I hit a bunch of balls right, hit a few down the middle, and that was about it.

 Q. Do you think that's something you can take care of on the range?
 TIGER WOODS: I'm not going to the range today. Hell with it. (Laughter.)

 Q. The first hole you started out great, great drive, second shot, nice birdie. Was your mindset in a confident way after starting out like that? Obviously after that there were a few scratchy shots. 
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, it actually felt pretty good after that start. Fortunately my second hole I hit a quick hook, then the next hole I hit another hook off the tee, and I kind of stuck a couple in the ground after that, too. That was kind of the beginning of a two-way miss.

 Q. After being away for so long, can you allow yourself to cut yourself some slack? 
 TIGER WOODS: I'm trying. I'm trying. But when you're fighting a miss like this and trying to piece together a round to keep myself in the tournament is pretty tough. I try and be easy on myself. It can be had. 

 Q. Any particular club you want to break? 
 TIGER WOODS: No, it's just one of those things. As I said, I had a two-way miss with every club. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT