MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2010
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Best I can sum it up you battled all week long your first week back. You clearly didn't have your game under control as you normally do, but after such a long and difficult absence from the game can you put this week in perspective for us? For you?  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I finished fourth. Not what I wanted. I wanted to win this tournament. As the week wore on I kept hitting the ball worse. I hit it better on Friday, but after that it was not very good.  
  
  Q. So you're not going to use a different measuring stick to measure your performance this week you're going to use your normal measuring stick of, I didn't win, therefore I'm not happy.   
 TIGER WOODS: Well I entered this event and I only enter events to win and I didn't get it done. I didn't hit the ball good enough and I made too many mistakes around the greens, consequently I'm not there.   
  
  Q. There's a fine line, any one of us whose played golf know between controlling your emotions and eliminating them on the golf course. And to me through the first five or six holes today you looked un-Tiger like. And then once you made the two at 7 your passion and your fire came back. Is it going to take you awhile to control your emotions and not eliminate them on the golf course in the change that you've committed to?  
 TIGER WOODS: I think people are making way too much of a big deal of this thing. I was not feeling good. I hit a big snipe off the first hole and I don't know how people can think I should be happy about that.   
 I hit a wedge from 45 yards and basically bladed it over the green. These are not thinks I normally do.   
 So I'm not going to be smiling and not going to be happy.   
 And I hit one of the worst, low, kind of low quack hook on 5. So I hadn't hit a good shot yet. I'm not going to be walking around there with a lot of pep in my step because I hadn't hit a good shot yet.  
  
  Q. I know it's going to take time for you to change. Any idea after this performance this week when we're going to see you again?  
 TIGER WOODS: No, I'm going to take a little time off and kind of re-evaluate things.   
  
  Q. I heard what you said and I know anything other than a victory here is a disappointment. What do you take away from these four days that's positive?  
 TIGER WOODS: I gave myself a chance. I didn't hit the ball very good on this weekend, didn't putt well yesterday, I putted a little bit better today, which is good. But overall I gave myself a shot at it.   
  
  Q. What do you have to work on to get back to where you want to be? What are the main things after playing four days here?  
 TIGER WOODS: Well I got to be able to shape the ball both ways. Today I was, I had a two-way miss and it's kind of tough to play when you got that, when you don't know which way it's going to go.  
  
  Q. You had two spectacular moments. Talk about the hole-out on 7 first.   
 TIGER WOODS: 7, I hit an 8-iron, a cut 8-iron. Used the slope and got lucky and it went in. That's it.  
  
  Q. 15?  
 TIGER WOODS: 15, I hit a good 5-iron in there, good drive, good 5-iron in there and I had about 15 feet up the hill right-to-left and just poured that one in there.   
  
  Q. Tough start today the first five. But you battled, fought back.   
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I felt it was tough today. I had another terrible warm-up today. I didn't have it. And it was pretty evident. I hit a quick hook off of 1, popped up the tee shot on 2, bladed a little pitch shot on 3, stuck it in the ground on 4, and hit a low hook on 5. Tough day.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 TIGER WOODS: A little bit, yeah. I still was 1-over par for the day even at that point. I was trying to get back to even par at the turn and I actually did one better, which was nice.   
 But I still was pretty far out of it. The guys were making birdies on the easier holes and for most of the day I was four, five, six back. So it's a long way to climb and I still was making mistakes out there. I made too many mistakes.  
  
  Q. Is there anything you, I mean is there a feel thing, is it one particular thing? I know you said you hit it both ways.  
 TIGER WOODS: I had a two-way miss going today so it was a really tough day.   
 I felt very uneasy on every shot I hit out there and it was just, I tried as hard as I possibly could to post a number and give myself a chance. I really dug deep to find something and that's something I'm pretty proud of.   
  
  Q. Recap the week for us.   
 TIGER WOODS: Overall it was a good week. I finished fourth, that was obviously not where I needed to be. Too many mistakes. I hit the ball too poorly on the weekend.   
  
  Q. You got an idea yet about when you'll return again?  
 TIGER WOODS: No, I'm going to take a little time off and kind of re-evaluate things.  
  
  Q. Did you come back too soon, do you think?  
 TIGER WOODS: I feel pretty good about my play this week. I felt everything was pretty good for the first two days. Then I putted pretty poorly yesterday, and I hit a lot of good putts today.   
  
  Q. Any sense of relief having the first tournament over with?  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I don't have to play with K.J. anymore.   
 (Laughter.)   
  
  Q. That's what he thinks?  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, exactly.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 TIGER WOODS: No, no, no. Not at all.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 TIGER WOODS: Other than my backswing's been going bad, my downswing's going bad, it wasn't too bad.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 TIGER WOODS: I think he'll probably have to qualify Monday qualify for Hilton Head tomorrow. No, it was a good week. We have always had fun playing, with and against each other and and this was no exception.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT