PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 16, 2019
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How did you feel about that round?  
TIGER WOODS: It wasn't as clean as I'd like to have it for sure.  Didn't get off to a very good start.  It was a good drive and ended up in a bad spot, and I compounded the problem with trying to use the backboard behind the hole there and missing a putt I should have made.  And then found my way back around.  Got it back under par for the day, and let a couple slip away with a couple bad putts and a couple mistakes at the end.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
TIGER WOODS: No, I wasn't feeling that good yesterday, so I decided to stay home and rest.   
 Q.  Is it allergies?  
TIGER WOODS: No, I got a little bit sick, so I decided to stay home.   
 Q.  Your round seemed super uneven.  You were making birdies out of tough spots and bogeys from the fairway.  How do you explain that?  
TIGER WOODS: Well, the golf course is playing tough.  You know, there's -- you can make -- I felt like it's not that hard to make bogeys out here, but it's hard to make birdies.  And I thought it was going to be hard to get the ball close to the holes.  When I had a few opportunities there with short irons, I played aggressively and was able to get them in there where I had makeable putts, and otherwise 30, 40 feet away and move on.   
 Q.  Your thoughts on what you saw Brooks do today?  
TIGER WOODS: He played well.  I mean, he hit a couple loose tee shots today that ended up in good spots, but I think that was probably the highest score he could have shot today.  He left a few out there with a couple putts that he missed.  But it could have easily been a couple better.   
 Q.  What do you think you're going to have to do to catch Brooks starting tomorrow?  
TIGER WOODS: We'll see what the golf course offers up tomorrow.  It changed quite a bit from when we played this morning to this afternoon.  The greens got a lot faster.  We'll see how it dries out over the next few days.  I don't see them cutting the rough down, so it's just going to place another premium on driving the ball in the fairway to get at some of these flags.   
 Q.  What time this morning did your day start?  
TIGER WOODS: Normal.  I always get up early.   
 Q.  Did you feel okay today?  
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I felt good.   
 Q.  Do you feel if the greens get tougher, it's going to be a little bit better for you?  
TIGER WOODS: You know, it puts a premium on hitting the ball obviously in the fairway and then -- when I had opportunities there with short irons, I was aggressive, and what I was saying to Karen is I was able to get the ball in there relatively close.  Otherwise it felt like I hit a lot of 4-irons and 5-irons in there, and it was hard to get the ball close.   
 Q.  When the eagle putt fell, did you feel like you had things kind of under control?  
TIGER WOODS: Well, I felt like I was getting back into the round.  I fought my way back and I had two double bogeys in through there and was still able to get it to under par for the day.  Unfortunately I had a couple three-putts there and hit a bad chip there at 8 and left myself in a bad spot.   
 Q.  Anything you took out of being as sharp as you would like --  
TIGER WOODS: No, not at all.  It just happened to -- I didn't take advantage of my opportunities there.  I thought I hit a good drive at 1 -- or sorry, 10, ended up in -- I had no lie.  17, I hit it up against the face and it plugs, and we get down there and there's no sand (indiscernible).  It was just bizarre.  But I fought my way back around there, and unfortunately I just didn't keep it together at the end.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT