MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2010
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. After 20 weeks a lot of people talked about it. How did it feel to be back out there?  
 TIGER WOODS: It felt good. It felt really good just to get out there and get into the rhythm of the round, and just kind of go about my business.  
  
  Q. The reception as you walked from the practice putting green to the first tee, how much of it did you absorb and what did you think of it?  
 TIGER WOODS: It was unbelievable, I mean, all day. The people, I haven't heard them cheer this loud in all my years here. So it certainly helped keep my spirits up because I was certainly missing a bunch of putts out there in tough conditions like that. It helps when you get the crowd like that.  
  
  Q. Did you hear anything negative at all during the day?  
 TIGER WOODS: Absolutely not.  
  
  Q. The confidence, people talk about the emotion and maybe the nerves on that first tee. You've thought about it a lot, obviously. What did it feel like once you finally got up there?  
 TIGER WOODS: It felt like normal. It felt like just I was going to hit a fade off the first tee, kind of start it down the left side and just hit it. To be honest with you, I felt just like I normally would in any other start, nothing different.  
  
  Q. You're clicking into playing mode. I think after 20 weeks a lot of folks speculated it might be tough, it must be rusty. As you got through the round, were you noticing anything that said, man, I haven't done this in a long time?  
 TIGER WOODS: No. No, my practice sessions -- it depends on how serious you take your practice, and I took it very seriously. I was grinding really hard for weeks on end. You know, just like when Hogan -- Hogan didn't play very often after the car accident, and he was able to win a bunch of tournaments. So it depends on how serious you take your practice and just go about your business just like you did in you practice.  
  
  Q. A couple things you've never done here before, starting sub-70, two eagles in a round. Were you more aggressive at all in this first round than you had been to start in other years?  
 TIGER WOODS: I wouldn't say more aggressive, but I think the golf course could be had a little bit more today. The tees were up. The only tee I think that was pretty much back was on 4, but other than that, there were a lot of tees where -- we got to 15, 15 was up. Pretty much every hole seemed to be up a little bit, and that makes the second shots a little bit easier if you get your driver in play.  
  
  Q. And the extremes; you talked about trying to bring left and right field in a little bit and not be as negative or as positive on the golf course in terms of fist pumping. Did you find it was hard to fight if you hit a bad one or if you made a big one like the two eagles?  
 TIGER WOODS: No, just going to go about my business, stay focused, keep plodding along and try not to give any shots away. That was the whole game plan all day, and whatever the emotions, the emotions were. But the whole idea was just not to give any shots away today.  
  
  Q. Guess what; you're on the first page of the leaderboard.   
 TIGER WOODS: Unbelievable.  
  
  Q. Are you surprised?  
 TIGER WOODS: A little bit, yeah. I would think that a couple under par would have been probably a pretty good start, but granted, everybody seemed to go low today. I think there's 30-plus guys under par. So the golf course, even though it was windy, it could be had today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT