WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 8, 2009
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Do you want to wrap up today's play and how you found it out there?  
 TIGER WOODS: Today was anything that could go wrong went front for me today. Got off to a bad start and buried the ball in a tee shot there on 7. I hit a drive down the middle of the fairway on 10 and ended up in someone's ball mark. Just one of those days, and then in the water on 18. Just one of those days.  
  
  Q. It happened to everybody, but not you very often, were you surprised?   
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I didn't really envision shooting even par today. The only good thing is I don't think many of the guys went deep today, so that makes you feel a little bit better. I would have had to have shot 67 to get into a playoff. So the guys took it deep and I didn't.   
  
  Q. Nothing wrong with your game?   
 TIGER WOODS: No, just one of those days. I got off to a bad start early and battled back to 8-under par for the day. But then I caught a little flyer on 18 there and hit in the water but still, just one of those days where I just didn't put it together at the right time.  
  
  Q. Next week a sellout, not news for you, but how does that make you feel?  
 TIGER WOODS: It's awfully nice that people are going to come out and support the event. It's a great event. The Masters is a big event down there. So for us to be playing on Kingston Heath, I think everyone is going to enjoy it.  
  
  Q. Are you going to catch up on your rest tomorrow?   
 TIGER WOODS: As of right now, I don't really plan on tomorrow. I just want to get out of here.   
  
  Q. Kingston Heath's greens are going to be a lot faster than here, of course.   
 TIGER WOODS: Oh, yeah.   
  
  Q. Putter is working well?   
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I just hit a couple of bad putts today. Yesterday I didn't really put that well. The first two days I putted great. I putted pretty good in the middle part of the round to get myself back in on the periphery, and just one of those things where it wasn't the putter, that's for sure.   
  
  Q. There's rumours you may be doing some appearance bes to help out the Victorian Bush Fire victims, are you aware of those rumours?   
 TIGER WOODS: No, not aware.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT