WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 7, 2009
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Your reaction after that round, I suspect it was a lot different day's work today given the weather conditions?
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, it was a little bit more difficult today certainly. I didn't putt as well as I did the first two days. And the back nine, I didn't take advantage of the par 5s, and 16, I hit it in there stiff and missed that one, as well. 
 So not making as many putts as I did the first two days, and consequently I was three shots worse; that's about right. 

 Q. You were going along quite nicely on the front nine, you were two shots clear at one stage and now you're two shots behind. So what's the reaction to that?
 TIGER WOODS: Well, you've got to continue making birdies. The golf course, the greens are softening up, even though it's tricky out here and we have some pretty good pins; the greens are soft enough that if you can get the ball in the fairway, you can take it around some of the these flags. And the greens are pure. 
 So you hit the ball in the right spots, you've got some pretty good looks, and the guys are making some putts. 

 Q. You know that we are all very excited at the prospect of Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson in the final group together. Does it excite you? 
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I mean, we are right there. Unfortunately I'm two back. But you know, it's just one of those things where Nick and I have got a chance tomorrow, and we are going to have to go out there and obviously play well. 
 A lot depends on what the weather comes in, if it is going to rain or not, and that's one of those adjustment things, that you play it by ear. We are still going to have to play well. Either way, for me to win the championship, I'm going to have to play well tomorrow and make some putts.

 Q. Regardless of personalities, for world No. 1 when the world No. 2 is there and he's the man to be beaten, when you're two shots behind, that must give it an extra edge?
 TIGER WOODS: Well, you just go play, no matter who is out in front, whether it's Phil or someone else. You want to win a tournament, you have to go out there and play and execute. You get into your own little world and try and do the best you possibly can, and hopefully you can come out on top. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT