WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 5, 2009
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 67, 5-under par, what's your reaction to that round?  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I got it around today. It wasn't my best ball-striking round today for sure but made some putts which was nice, and just managed my game well. That was about it.   
  
  Q. You always talk about that ability to cure things on the course, it's been one of the most satisfying aspects to your game, but were you calling on that today?   
 TIGER WOODS: I was a bit frustrated today, because I kind of had a two-way miss going today a little bit. That's not always a fun thing when you have a two-way miss.  
  
  Q. What about playing in China? Is it a unique experience?  
 TIGER WOODS: No doubt. There's certainly a lot of people out there. There was a lot of people moving and things. We had to stay pretty focused. The marshals did a good job of helping us out and giving us an opportunity to play.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like sometimes that gives you an advantage, because you almost uniquely have to deal with that more than any other player?  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I think it's a disadvantage here, because there are so many people with cameras here. The other groups probably don't have to deal with it as much as we do. But as I say the marshals did a great job helping us out, and security. It was awfully nice of them to work that hard to help us out.   
  
  Q. The cameras at the downswing, were you expecting that?  
 TIGER WOODS: The guy in the grandstand basically did almost a photo sequence. I flinched on it and I hit it straight to the right.   
  
  Q. And did it get better after that?  
 TIGER WOODS: Not for about the first six or seven holes, no. But after that, yeah.   
 A lot of times when we play overseas, it kind of gets that way, and you know what you have to expect. But as I said, the marshals did a great job helping us out today and were really trying to give us an opportunity to play. It wasn't just me. It was all three of us in the group.   
  
  Q. You've spent this week talked a lot about wanting to grow the game in China and obviously you are doing it from the grass roots level; people here don't just actually appreciate what should go on behind the ropes.   
 TIGER WOODS: I wouldn't say that. I would say that there's no history yet.   
 The populous has not played golf long enough to understand yet, and that takes time. There's a lot of countries we've played in that's the same way, but over time as they get more experience and more people playing the game and really understanding what the game is all about, then it doesn't happen as much.   
  
  Q. Do you view China as an opportunity for you, for your brand, and for golf?   
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I think it's just for golf in general. The populous is now, I think with the inception or the inclusion of us in the Olympics, I think it's going to certainly help that and change the perception of golf in China and I think the next 20-some-odd years, you're going to see a huge boom in China and in junior golf in general.  
  
  Q. Talking about Kingston Heath, but when you are down there next week, you going to play Royal Melbourne to get prepared for The Presidents Cup in two years? Are you going to play other courses?   
 TIGER WOODS: No. Don't have time.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT