THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 11, 2009
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. First time your point clinched the Cup. How does that feel? 
 TIGER WOODS: Oh, did it really? No, I swear, I didn't.

 Q. Freddie didn't know? 
 TIGER WOODS: He didn't tell me. 

 Q. That finished it right there. 
 TIGER WOODS: Oh, perfect. All I knew was I was trying to get my point and I was 5-up trying to make it six. 

 Q. Were you aware at all that your match might be the deciding match? 
 TIGER WOODS: No, I didn't look at any boards. I saw we were down six matches at one point so I just kept my head down and tried to extend my own lead. 

 Q. Clinching point for the Cup, maybe a little revenge in this match at all in?
 TIGER WOODS: Well, you know, he got me once and hopefully I can get him a second time. But he got off to a good start. He birdied the first and I made a mistake there, and from then on, I actually played pretty good. I hit a couple loose shots here and there, but I really putted well, other than missing that putt over there at 12, that was about it.

 Q. Comfortable all through the week? 
 TIGER WOODS: There were a couple of moments where I didn't feel all that comfortable with my swing, but when you have Stricker making everything from everywhere, that certainly carried us. Today was just one of those days where I was just trying to get up and once I finally got up, made a couple bombs there and I was rolling. 

 Q. Pretty good year for you? 
 TIGER WOODS: It's a great year, are you kidding me? Even though I didn't win a major championship, to come back from what I came back from, to have the success I had this year, I don't think anyone would have predicted that and I'm very proud of that. 

 Q. Any extra incentive after what happened at Hazeltine? 
 TIGER WOODS: Well, he got me there and I figured I could get him here. It certainly was not exactly the same atmosphere, but then it still was an important point.

 Q. Were you looking at the board at all, did you see where you stood? 
 TIGER WOODS: I did not know at all because last time I saw the board, we were down six matches, so I figured that I could handle my match and just worry about that. I did pretty good coming in.

 Q. How proud are you of the team effort? 
 TIGER WOODS: Absolutely. We played great as a team. The captain did some great pairings, put us together with some guys that we knew we could play really well with. And the guys made putts this week. Even though the greens were not exactly great, these guys still made putts. Well, I witnessed one of best putting rounds ever. So all in all, very proud of the guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT