THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 10, 2009
Steve Stricker
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Looked like an uphill struggle all the way for you, but the big turnaround at 17, and the second shot here at 18. 
 STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, it was fun to watch. I had a front row seat for that. That was pretty cool. But you know, we all know what he does, and he stepped it up when he had to here. It was pretty impressive. 

 Q. How about the shot at 17. Nice make. 
 TIGER WOODS: Didn't have a choice. If we miss, they make, it's over. Just crawled in. But it fell in. 

 Q. How is it you do that all the time? 
 TIGER WOODS: Luck. 

 Q. You guys didn't see 16, 17, 18 the first two days. 
 TIGER WOODS: We were lucky to only be 2-down, so we kept ourselves in the ballgame there and should have been probably three or four down easily. We turned it around at the end. 

 Q. What really turned it around for you guys? 
 STEVE STRICKER: His putt on 17. You know, it wasn't looking too good up to that point. We miss that or if Tiger misses that and Weirsy makes, the match is over. But to walk out of here with a win -- but he was calling it all the way around. He kept telling me, we are going to win this match, turn this thing and get the crowd on our side. Believing is one thing, you know, and he pulled some great shots off at the end.

 Q. How about that second shot on 18? 
 TIGER WOODS: That was good. I liked that one. That was a full cut 3-iron. It actually was a good number for me. I can actually just go ahead and swing it, and I knew it wasn't going to be too much club. 

 Q. What was more exciting, the second shot on 18 or the putt on 17? 
 TIGER WOODS: The putt by far. Second shot on 18 might not have happened if I had missed that putt. We needed that one. 

 Q. Are you ever surprised at what this guy does? 
 STEVE STRICKER: Never. We all know what this guy does. The stage is set and he comes through again today. It's pretty impressive.

 Q. What did you think of his reaction on the second shot? 
 STEVE STRICKER: I didn't see it. I was watching the ball. 
 TIGER WOODS: I liked it. I don't know what I did, but I liked it. I started walking after it, and I knew it was a good number for me. I could hit a full 3-iron and land it on the front and it wasn't going to be too much club.

 Q. What is it about different personalities that you guys mesh? 
 TIGER WOODS: I think we approach the game the same way with the same mentality. We just play it differently. I hit the ball a little bit further. But our mentality and how we play and how we compete is exactly the same.

 Q. How much fun has it been to play with him? 
 STEVE STRICKER: It's been a blast. I think we have each other again this afternoon. I hope he's not sick of me yet. We have to turn this thing around, it's close, and this afternoon is an important set of matches for the U.S. to go out and get some more points. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT