THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 24, 2009
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Was it hard to be patient today?
 TIGER WOODS: Well, on this golf course that's the only way you can play. This golf course you have to be very patient, especially with greens this firm. It's really hard to get the ball close unless you drive the ball in the fairway and have a short iron in. If you have a mid-iron in your hand you can't really go after the flag.

 Q. So you were 1-over and Sean was 5-under at one point. You come back and now you're one off the lead. Same kind of question, how do you keep yourself patient?
 TIGER WOODS: Well, 1-under, and then I made two quick bogeys there. I know it's one of those things where I was just trying to get back to -- I felt if I shot under par for the day, I'd be fine. There aren't going to be a lot of guys under par. Luckily I birdied 9 and then kind of got it going on the back nine. I accomplished my goal of shooting under par for the day.

 Q. Sean also said that you gave him a little putting tip, and he made about a 50-footer today, a 30-footer --
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I'm going to go chew him out right now. (Laughter).

 Q. Was 9 the turning point for the day?
 TIGER WOODS: I'd have to say so, yeah. I had just bogeyed 6 and 8 and missed a short one there for birdie at 7, and it was nice to get one on 9. But that chip came out a little warmer than I thought, and I didn't want to miss an opportunity there and make birdie. It's one of the very few birdie holes we have out there, and most of the guys are making birdie there, so you don't want to not make birdie there.

 Q. You got a pretty good break on 17, too. 
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, it was weird, because I didn't think I hit that bad a shot. I felt a good shot might have been just on the green, but it was turning. I hit a wedge there, and I had 145 to carry, 65 hole, but 145 to carry, and I just wanted to carry it on up there, and it went over the back, over the back to the right, not over the back to the left. 

 Q. What do you think of par-3s as a finishing hole in general and especially here with what could be at stake on Sunday with that being the last hole?
 TIGER WOODS: Well, it's a pretty hard hole. It's not like it's a 6-iron in there or something like that. You'll see -- we've seen before a lot of bogeys at that hole and also a lot of great shots. 
 So it is a pretty cool hole. Today it was playing as benign as we could possibly have it. Most of the guys were hitting irons.

 Q. Are you surprised at how playable the course is tee to green, how dry it is?
 TIGER WOODS: I think we all are, as much rain as they've gotten here. The fairways are soft, yes, but the greens are really firmed up. SubAir, it's amazing what it can do. If you look at some of these greens, it looks like they were in a drought. They're browned out. If we don't get any rain obviously tonight or tomorrow, we'll probably get some rain on Saturday, but on these greens, the pin locations tomorrow aren't easy, and you've got to be very cautious going in there because it's very easy to skip over the back, and you've got these down-grain, bumpy lies where it's really hard to control what you're doing.

 Q. Going back to Sean for a minute, he was saying as much as you're a great player and whatnot, it was quite surprising to him that you would help a fellow competitor, which is really what he is this week, with a putting tip. Can you talk about why you would do that? 
 TIGER WOODS: It's very simple; you always help your friends. Sean is a friend of mine, and like all my friends, you always try to make their life better somehow. That's the whole idea of having friends in your life. 
 Sean has been struggling a little bit on the greens this year, and I thought I could offer a little bit of help and insight to how he could change that, and now, as I said, I'm going to go chew him out.

 Q. What were you and Steve cracking up about on 18 green?
 TIGER WOODS: Oh, some guy yelled out behind me -- well, Strick hit it up there to 12, and he said, what do you expect from a two-time Comeback Player of the Year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT