DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 7, 2009
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What did you have there?  
 TIGER WOODS: I had 30 hole, and I hit a little 9-iron just past the hole, used the slope and came back.  
  
  Q. Talk about the front nine.   
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I got off to a pretty good start there, birdied three of the first four, birdied 2, 3 and 4 and made a good save at 5, and I think that's basically what kept -- that kept the round going, to be able to make that save there.   
 From there just kind of continued. I hit it in there tight at 8, had a chance there, hit a good putt at 9 and made a putt at 10 and just made that mistake at 11. That and 17. But overall it was a pretty good day.  
  
  Q. What was your mindset, trying to birdie every hole?   
 TIGER WOODS: Well, the whole idea was to try and shoot something in the low 60s and that would probably get me in the Top 10. Certainly from where I was at, I couldn't win the tournament, even if I shot 60 or something like that. I was so far back, these guys are -- no wind, soft greens and pretty benign pins, they'll go low.   
  
  Q. Did you make any adjustments in your putting stroke?   
 TIGER WOODS: No, I just kept on doing the same thing. I kept hitting lips, lip after lip after lip, so I'm not that far off. Just stay the course, and boom, all of a sudden I started making putts. I was hitting the ball just as good, and things just started rolling.  
  
  Q. Are you a little bit disappointed or how do you feel today?  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, it could have been a little bit lower. I made that mistake at 11, hit the wrong club there and three-putted 17. But yeah, it probably could have been a couple less than that, but still wouldn't have been good enough.  
  
  Q. Did you change anything between yesterday and today?  
 TIGER WOODS: Nothing, absolutely nothing. I went out there and I did the same things. Yesterday I hit lip after lip, was hitting good putts. The last three days I hit about three or five lip-outs per day, and you just stick with the same things. I'm hitting good putts, okay, so hit good shots, same thing I've been doing, and maybe those putts will fall. All of a sudden, boom, they start falling, and here we go.   
  
  Q. How did the course play today?  
 TIGER WOODS: It's a lot easier. The wind yesterday was all over the place. It was hard to hit the ball pin high. It was really hard. Today was actually pretty interesting. I think we played 13 out of the 18 holes into the wind. For some reason we just kept getting the into the wind gusts, and it was just one of those days. It's just not blowing hard enough, but when it does come up, or when it did come up, it was in our face. It was just one of those weird days.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 TIGER WOODS: No, no, I was in between clubs. I was pushing 3-iron to get to the front, and I figured a low 3-iron lands on top, rolls to the hole. If I hit it too hard, which normally when I hit the ball too hard, it goes left. Left is no big deal, I've got a big bank over there.   
 But in hindsight I was really thinking about hitting a nice, soft 5-wood in there, using the bank and kind of feeding it back there. The only thing, we were kind of worried about if it landed on top, it's out of here, and that's a brutal up-and-down. I was just caught. I was 50 feet either way.   
  
  Q. When you pretty much know you're not going to win the tournament, how do you stay motivated?  
 TIGER WOODS: You play. You play like you always do. You always go out there and you try and shoot the lowest round you possibly can. Whether you can win a tournament or not, it doesn't matter. You go out there and post a low number, as low as you've got for that day. It doesn't change, whether you've just made the cut or you're dew sweeping on the lost day. It doesn't matter. You post a low round and see what happens. You can feel good about it, you know?   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 TIGER WOODS: You know, ball-striking wise it was the same. I just made a few more putts today. That's the difference. If you look at the way I've played the last two weeks, I've hit the ball really well, just haven't got anything out of my rounds.   
 Today I got something out of my round.   
  
  Q. (On the spectator wearing the Tiger suit.)  
 TIGER WOODS: He lost a few pounds today, there's no doubt. He took the head off there on No. 1, and he said he was dripping wet. Hey, you've got a guy in a Tiger suit, you've got two guys in green.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, on top of that, these greens are so smooth, too. Every putt, you hit it on line with the correct speed, it's automatically in. It's not going to deviate. And not a lot of double-breaking putts here like last week from 10, 12 feet. Here they're pretty simple. You know, I kept hitting them in good spots today and had a lot of looks.   
  
  Q. How do you think the Playoffs system is working?   
 TIGER WOODS: It's still pretty interesting because you could have a great year, you could win the first three Playoff events and not win the FedExCup. I don't know, maybe that's the way they want it just in case it does happen, you know, like Vijay did last year. We'll see how it plays out.   
 I'm sure it'll be tweaked again and again and again. That's just the way it is until you get it right.   
  
  Q. (On the Money List.)  
 TIGER WOODS: That's how you know it. I'll be honest with you, I don't really know the points. I don't think anyone knows. You come in there and you go how many points did I make today, and no one has a clue. But we understand the Money List because that's what we've done our entire careers. It's just a different way of looking at it. It's going to take time to get used to. We've done it for a few years now, and you start getting the hang of it, but still, you still need a few more years of familiarity.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT