DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2009
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. I assume your goal when you get to the back nine is try and cut into as much of the lead as you could. How do you think you did?  
 TIGER WOODS: I wanted to give myself a chance. Now I've got to go low two rounds.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I made a few par putts, I made a couple birdie putts here and there. But you know, as you look at it, I'm close on nearly every hole. That's the way I'm playing. They haven't been lipping in, they've been lipping out. I had five lip-outs today. That's about par for the course right now.  
  
  Q. The way you played coming in, six or seven holes in a row inside whatever feet.   
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, that's how I've been playing. That's how I played at the PGA, how I played last week, how I've played this week. I've hit it pretty good in stretches. Today is one of those days where I could have gone really low. Could have had a really low round.  
  
  Q. How bad was your lie in the bunker on 11?  
 TIGER WOODS: It was buried.  
  
  Q. That was a big momentum maker then to get up-and-down and make that putt?  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, absolutely. At the time I was 11 back of the lead and right on the cut line. I saw a lot of media guys out there, so I thought, I'd better turn this thing around and make them go away. (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. You hit a great drive afterwards and it just seemed to kind of go from there.   
 TIGER WOODS: I needed that putt. I made a good par putt at 9, another one at 10 and a nice one at 11, just to kind of keep me right there. I still had some easy holes that I could take advantage of there coming in, and I did that.   
  
  Q. Especially with Heath in the bunker on 11, why did Stevie -- why was it important that he rake?  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I was asking Heath do you want to go first because if you don't get it out, it's going to roll back. If I play, if he elects not to rake it, then it could roll in one of my footprints. But Stevie can rake after I play. It's just that you don't want to disturb the sand that's right next to the ball. Where I stepped was really close to his golf ball, and we had to be really careful how Stevie raked the bunker, that he didn't affect his ball, and that's one reason why I asked Heath to play first, if he wanted to play first, because I would be right next to his golf ball.  
  
  Q. What would have happened if Stevie would have raked and disturbed his ball?  
 TIGER WOODS: That's the thing, I didn't want to take that chance. That's why I asked Heath if he wanted to play first.   
  
  Q. Not counting 17 perhaps, it seemed like you were putting much better on the back nine on the front nine. Did you make any adjustments?  
 TIGER WOODS: You know, I really didn't, actually. I just started seeing the line a little bit better. You know, my speed was good all day today, I just started seeing the breaks a little bit better and I poured a few in there.  
  
  Q. Is grinding on a cut line any different than grinding in contention at all? Is there any philosophical and emotional difference?  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, if you're grinding on the lead, you're playing a lot better than you are grinding on the cut line.   
  
  Q. Do you feel if you continue the way you're playing, the putts are going to fall?  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, absolutely. I feel as if I've been hitting it pretty much all year. If I putt well, then I'm right there and I win golf tournaments. And if I don't, then I'm still right there with a chance.   
 But you know, you have to make putts. You can't out-ballstrike these guys. The equipment is too good now. The ball doesn't move too much, and the drivers are so forgiving, the irons are so forgiving, that you just can't out-ballstrike the guys. You have to make putts.   
 Most of the guys that win on TOUR, they're usually in Top 10 in putting for the week.  
  
  Q. Have you ever gone two weeks like this in the past? I know you've had a few rough West Coast stretches on the poa out there way back in the day, but just from a putting context, been a while?  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, it's been a while. They had bumpy greens at the PGA, and last week the golf course was very unique and very different for us. These greens are absolutely perfect.   
 But yeah, you go through stretches like this. Some guys go through months, years before they turn it around, weeks. Everyone goes through stretches like this. It's not the first time in my career I've gone through this, and I'm sure it won't be the last.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT