DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2009
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Kind of an up-and-down round today. 
 TIGER WOODS: I didn't really do much of anything positively today. I didn't feel good over any shot today and didn't drive it very good, hit my irons worse and didn't make any putts. Other than that, it was a good day.

 Q. Did that last putt kind of do in the round? 
 TIGER WOODS: I just didn't have enough speed in that putt. I had the read right, just didn't have enough speed.

 Q. A lot of chances, mostly just speed or what?
 TIGER WOODS: Some was. Some were bad putts. Most of the putts I hit today, if anything they were lacking pace. They were kind of rolling by about six inches past the hole, maybe a foot. I just wasn't carrying enough pace to the hole. A little bit more break at the end than I should have. 

 Q. This is the fourth week here; the last three you've been right in the mix up until the last couple of holes. Do you feel any emotional difficulty in grinding it back up and coming back out here and getting it going on a first round?
 TIGER WOODS: Long stretch. Most of this year I've been in contention, so it's not just the last few weeks. Being in contention, you have to deal with a lot of different things, pre-round, post-round. It just adds to it. 

 Q. You hit a couple drivers down the stretch (indiscernible.). 
 TIGER WOODS: I told you I felt terrible over any tee shot, didn't matter what club it was, whether it was an iron on a par-3 or a driver on any hole. I didn't feel great over any shot. It was one of those days. 
 Iron shots into greens were not very good, and as I said, I didn't make any putts, either.

 Q. What did you think of that putt Stricker made at the end?
 TIGER WOODS: It was unbelievable. We thought he was going to shoot 62 at the turn the way he was going. The putts were center cut, iron shots were right at it, and he was driving the ball great. He made one mistake there at 7, his lay-up was left. But other than that you'd be hard pressed to find a shot that he hit off line. 

 Q. Did it make it any tougher for you seeing how well he's playing?
 TIGER WOODS: No, I've got to worry about my own game. It's a four-day tournament. If you have a bad day, the whole idea is just to mitigate the mistakes and keep yourself in the ballgame. Today is a day I certainly could have shot over par, but I kept it under par, so that's a good sign.

 Q. There have been times you've done very well on this course. Is that something you can call upon in your mind?
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I've hit the ball a little bit better than I did today. It's one of those days. But yeah, I've had some success here. I've felt pretty good going into today. Unfortunately I just didn't hit the ball as well as I wanted to and certainly didn't make anything.

 Q. Just a flash of frustration on 5?
 TIGER WOODS: How about every hole. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT