MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2019
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You spent most of the last two hours hearing roars across the Pines. They weren't just roars they were Tiger roars. We saw you walk off with a thousand (No Microphone.) What does it feeling for you to create this energy here and to feel this emotion?
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, it feels like I played my own way back into the tournament. I was just very patient today, felt very good to be out there doing what I was doing. This is now three straight majors that I've been in the mix and so it's good stuff. 

Q. You had an odd ball thing happen on 14 with the official. Let's establish that your ankle is okay?
TIGER WOODS: I'm fine. It's all good. Accidents happen and move on. 

Q. You had a bunch of great birdies on the back, you also had a bunch of missed opportunities you had great round that could have been an even better round. Tell us about it. 
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I missed a few putts out there but I'm not too bummed out about it because I hit them on my lines. So I can live with that. I can live with days where I'm hitting putts on my line and they just don't go in, that's the way it goes. 
But I also made some distance putts there at 9, 14, 15, those were, they were nice to make and if I keep hitting the putts on my line, they will start dropping. 

Q. You spoke a lot about the putting, the putting, you were happy with the putting today?
TIGER WOODS: I was. I had great speed today. The only two bad putts I hit today were all on the same hole, over on 8, I 3‑putted. I had a bad first putt and a bad second putt. But other than that my speed was great and I hit a lot of putts that looked like they were going in, but they were on my lines, so that's fun. 

Q. A lot of these other guys, with the delay, like right after you hit that shot stiff on 12, did it impact the putt at all, did it impact anything on 13?
TIGER WOODS: No, yeah, I was a little bit stiff when I came back out and started swinging again, but I was able to ratchet up the speed for 13 to just sort of go after it. And I did turn the corner, which was great and had 6‑iron in there and didn't make birdie there, left it short. That's the way it goes. 

Q. The putt on 9 after bogeying 8 you seemed to get a teach from Haotong. 
TIGER WOODS: I did, yeah. 

Q. Did you give that some extra juice having seen the line?
TIGER WOODS: No, I definitely did. After seeing Haotong's putt, he left it about three feet short right up the hill, and it ran out of gas, so I mean it's‑‑ you know, people don't realize how grainy some of these putts are, especially going up the hills. You can see it stagger. So I gave it a little extra hit with my right hand and make sure I got it up there and it ended up going in.

Q. Tiger, has there ever happened to you on the course before where you got hit in the ankle and just how frightening a moment was that for you, temporarily anyway?
TIGER WOODS: No, it's all good. Accidents happen. I've had galleries run over me, it's just, you know, when you play in front of a lot of people, things happen. 

Q. It looked like a second baseman that was having a double play broken up. 
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, that's the way it goes. But it's all good.

Q. What was the challenge of the shot on 14, what were you focusing on before you hit that shot?
TIGER WOODS: I had a window there and if I hit it low and I had 154 on top, 67 hole. And I was literally just trying to hit the ball short. If it happened to skip up, great, but make sure I keep it on the flag side, don't let it go down to the right. If I keep it on the flag side I have an easy pitch. If it happens to skip up great, then I got a putt at it. But that was the game plan and it came out perfect to fruition.
And again I got another teach from Haotong, his putt broke quite a bit to the right at the end and I gave mine just a little bit more leeway to the left and it ended up going in.

Q. Were you concerned at all about the leaders pulling away from you before you even teed off today? Which can happen out here. 
TIGER WOODS: No, you know, after looking at the pin locations and watching some of the early morning telecast, the greens were soft, obviously it rained this morning, so it's going to be soft and the guys were taking advantage of it. It's not the normal Augusta National where the balls repel, they're holding. We were able to stop 6‑irons and 5‑irons, that's something that you don't normally see here and with it being so hot, the ball's flying forever. So it's nice to, we're hitting short irons into a lot of the holes because of it, if it got cooler from the same distance it would be a totally different deal but it with it being so warm the ball's flying forever.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT