BUICK OPEN
July 30, 2009
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tiger, pretty disappointing day out there?
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah. Yeah. I rode on a string most of the day and didn't hit my irons very good, and probably one of the worst putting days I've ever had. Just didn't hit any. 

 Q. Did you have any indication?
 TIGER WOODS: No. I putted good yesterday, putted good today starting out, when I was warming up. Got on the greens today, and it was just terrible. 

 Q. Where do you go from here? Obviously it's a long way back. 
 TIGER WOODS: It's a process. Obviously I'm not going to get it back in one day. 
 Guys are going to continue to go low. So I gotta get it back over the next three days, and hopefully I can do that. 

 Q. When you hit that really long one, I think on 4 to save par, do you think maybe that's what kind of turned things around with your putter?
 TIGER WOODS: No. I actually pulled it. I hit a bad putt there, went in, and I hit a really good putt there at 15 and hit something and went left. It's just one of those days, one of those weird days. 

 Q. 17, obviously you hit a good shot in there, and made that. 
 TIGER WOODS: No. I pulled that one, too. 

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 TIGER WOODS: Those are the holes where you gotta take advantage of them, and I had a sand wedge and a 10, hit a terrible iron shot at 11, got up-and-down somehow. 
 And then birdied 12, but then again, 13 is a pretty typical hole, drive it on the fairway and get there with an iron, so I didn't do that. And I took advantage at 14. So it was all right for that stretch. 

 Q. Is there more pressure on you tomorrow knowing you have to play really well to make the cut?
 TIGER WOODS: I not only have to play well to make the cut. I gotta play well to get myself back in contention, too, so I gotta go low. 
 Guys are only going to continue to go low. That's the way the golf course is playing right now this week. It's going to be 20-plus probably to win the tournament. 

 Q. Have you ever had an afternoon tee time in the first round here? It always seems like you go out in the morning. 
 TIGER WOODS: Probably right, isn't it? I don't think I have. 

 Q. Morning guys tees were lined up. 
 TIGER WOODS: Oh, the greens were smooth. Afternoon it gets a little more bumpy, but they're still soft. You can still be very aggressive on the greens. 
 Just didn't happen to have as many smooth putts, but if you can be aggressive and go at the flag, you don't have to worry about it. 

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah. I'm going to have to take advantage of the holes you're supposed to take advantage of, par-5s, couple short par 4s. I'll handle those and sprinkle a few more here or there and I'll come up with the number I need to come up with. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT