THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2009
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You've got to be disappointed.   
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, no doubt. I was 1-under par after seven holes and just right there in the championship and had a few tough holes right in a row and couldn't get it back.  
  
  Q. What went wrong?  
 TIGER WOODS: I really wasn't -- I hit a couple of bad shots, but other than that, I made a bogey there at 13 from 150 yards. It was just -- it was just problem after problem. I kept compounding my problems out there.  
  
  Q. What's next for you?  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, go home, get something to eat. I'm really hungry right now.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 TIGER WOODS: No, you're right. You know, as I said, I was 1-under par there, and if I could have just played those holes well, I'd be fine, coming home downwind, could make some birdies coming home. I didn't do that. I hit some bad tee shots, a couple bad iron shots, didn't get it up-and-down. Kept making mistake after mistake.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I figured it was -- starting at 14 I was probably going to have to birdie the last four is what I thought, and obviously I didn't do that. I birdied two of the last four, and I think that's not going to be enough.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I just made mistakes. And obviously you can't make mistakes and expect to not only make the cut but also try and win a championship. You have to play clean rounds of golf, and I didn't. I made my share of mistakes out there today and didn't play a very clean card.  
  
  Q. Is this about the worst you can remember playing?   
 TIGER WOODS: It was pretty bad at Winged Foot.  
  
  Q. How unexpected is this given you won your previous tournament?   
 TIGER WOODS: Well, obviously it's disappointing, there's no doubt. I was playing well coming in, and today unfortunately I just didn't play certain holes well. I was playing the first seven holes dead into the wind. I was playing those holes well, I was 1-under par and just right there. And then unfortunately three holes right in a row and I was 4-over par.   
  
  Q. Did you think you were hitting it well on the range last night?  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I was hitting it well, no doubt. Just hit a couple of bad 3-woods there.  
  
  Q. During the day, seeing what the weather was like, what did you think you'd have to do out there?   
 TIGER WOODS: I thought if I shot under par for the tournament, to end the day I'd be right there in the championship, probably in the top 10. Looks like 2-under might be top-10 right now. But just the way the day was starting out, the guys were all coming backwards. I would figured if I would have shot 2-under par today, I would have been right there in the championship.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 TIGER WOODS: The wind was blowing pretty good. It was coming off the left pretty hard. You just had to hit good shots, and I didn't do that. It was a crosswind with holes that go from right-to-left and it was coming over your shoulder, you've got to hit some good draws in there and hold it against that wind, and I didn't do it.  
  
  Q. Did they recover your lost ball?   
 TIGER WOODS: No, they didn't.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 TIGER WOODS: It's happened before, St. Georges.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, as I said, I was playing well for the first seven holes. I was hitting good shot after good shot. And from 8 through probably 11 or 12 I was struggling there for a little bit. And unfortunately when you go through patches like that, you've got to play those holes either even par, 1-over par, even sometimes under par, and I went the other way. I had some high numbers and it cost me a chance on the weekend.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 TIGER WOODS: I just haven't put together all four rounds, and you have to play clean in order to win a major championship. I haven't done that. You have to do that in order to win majors, and that's what I've done before on all my major wins. You have to play clean cards and just didn't do it.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I hit two bad 3-woods right in a row, and ended up making a bogey and a double.  
  
  Q. Do you have any plans before Hazeltine?   
 TIGER WOODS: Head home.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT