U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2020
September 17, 2020
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Tiger, talk about the round a bit.
 TIGER WOODS:   Well, it was a bit of ebb and flow to the round today.  I did not finish off the round like I needed to.  I made a bunch of putts in the middle part of the round.  It seemed like most of my drives on the front nine landed in the fairway and ended up in bad spots, and I tried to stay as patient as possible, and unfortunately just did not finish off my round the way I needed to.
 Q. Do you take any positives that you made five birdies, made a bunch of putts?
 TIGER WOODS:   No, but I needed to finish off the round better, and I didn't.  As I said, I made a few putts the middle part of the round.  Seemed like I wasn't getting anything out of my round early on, and it flipped, and unfortunately I just didn't finish off the way I needed to.
 Q. What did you think of the conditions of the golf course, and was it how you expected or a little bit different in any way?
 TIGER WOODS:   I thought the golf course was set up fantastic.  I thought that what they did with the hole locations were very fair today.  It gave us an opportunity to make some birdies, and you look at most of the scores, and the guys took advantage of it.
 Q. Do you expect it to keep getting firmer as the week goes on?
 TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I don't see any reason why it won't get harder and get more difficult.  I just think that the golf course is there to be had.  They gave us a lot of opportunities with the hole locations.  Obviously they could have made it a lot more difficult if they wanted to, but I thought it was very fair.
 Q. Is there any solace knowing it's going to be such a grind this week that shooting a sub-par first round isn't anything near --
 TIGER WOODS:   Well, we have a long way to go.  This is a long marathon of a tournament.  There's a lot of different things that can go on.  I just wish I would have finished off my round better.
 Q. Given how little you've played this year, when you strung those birdies together in the middle of the round to kind of reel it back in and preserve it, isn't that a pretty positive sign for you going forward?
 TIGER WOODS:   Well, the middle part of my round, a lot of things went my way.  Beginning part of the round it seemed like things weren't going my way.  Good tee shots were ended up in the rough in bad spots, and I had a nice little hot run there in the middle part of my round, hit a really good putt at 12, thought it was going to go in and then I lipped it out, and then made two bogeys after that.  Didn't finish off my round the way I needed to.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT