THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 5, 2009
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk a little about the round today. 
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I hit it good off the tees again today. I drove it great. Hit my ball on the short side. Can't do that out here. Got to miss it on the correct side today. Missed a few short ones as well. 

 Q. Getting a little more difficult out there, Tiger? 
 TIGER WOODS: It is. It's blowing a little bit. Greens are getting fast. I talked to the superintendent this morning. He says we've got about 14 right now. That's not slow. 

 Q. Were you aggressive being short-sided, or was that just --
 TIGER WOODS: No. I just hit some poor shots. Well, two of them were poor shots. Others were the wind switched on me a little bit. It is what it is. But I can hit the ball better than I did. 

 Q. How would you rate these greens amongst all the stops you guys go to? 
 TIGER WOODS: Probably the best we putt on. Augusta, obviously, has more slope than this, but as far as its consistent speed and trueness, I don't think there's any greens better than we play here. 

 Q. When you say you can still hit the ball better, are you encouraged that you're going in the right direction with your game? 
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, no doubt. I'm driving it well right now. Missed two fairways. One was by an inch. The other was by two, three yards. I'm encouraged by that. Just need to hit my irons a little better and obviously make the short ones. I missed two or three of those today. 

 Q. Do you think anybody is going to run away from you guys in that minus 1 area now in the afternoon? 
 TIGER WOODS: I don't know. It's getting drier and faster. There's no doubt. Good news is for a lot of the guys, the fairways are cut down grain, so they can get a little run out of them. Just going into the greens, it's hard to get the ball close with the greens being this fast. It's starting to get a little springy to them. It's a test. 

 Q. If you're just this happy with the way you're driving the ball, are you a little surprised you're not scoring a little better? Is that just what this course is like? 
 TIGER WOODS: If you miss it on the short side, you're not going to make pars here. Not with how Jack designs a golf course, if you miss them on the bunkers, a lot of bunkers roll away from you at you come out of them. 
 You have to make sure you hit the ball on the correct side. I didn't do that today. 

 Q. Do you have a mindset tomorrow, a number in mind going into tomorrow? 
 TIGER WOODS: We'll see what the weather is and see what these guys do today. That has lots to do with it. 

 Q. Are you doing something differently with your driving? 
 TIGER WOODS: I'm swinging better. I'm swinging better. I finally feel my body's coming around now. That I can start doing these things. It's kind of fun. 

 Q. When you talked the other day in there about protecting your knee, if you've got to put it on a scale of 0 to 100%, where are you right now as far as just letting it go and swinging?
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I can pretty much do anything I want. They obviously don't want me playing basketball, so I guess it's not quite that good yet. 
 But it's one of those things where you just -- the worst thing you can do is just stretch it out. The surgery is all for naught. 
 So when I came back, obviously, that was the main goal was to protect it. Obviously, my shot selection was certainly diminished because of that. Now I'm able to start hitting shots again. 

 Q. Post round, Tiger, are you icing it at all or doing anything to it? 
 TIGER WOODS: Not anymore. 

 Q. You don't have to do anymore? 
 TIGER WOODS: No. 

 Q. When did you stop doing that? 
 TIGER WOODS: Probably after Augusta. 

 Q. All right. So no more rehab in that regard? 
 TIGER WOODS: No. I just have to keep the strength up. The swelling is pretty much gone. It's just better keeping the strength up and explosiveness in it. 

 Q. You don't stretch either? 
 TIGER WOODS: I always stretch. 

 Q. Coming into this week, did you know it would feel this good? Or maybe are you even surprised? 
 TIGER WOODS: No. At home I've been feeling great. It's just a matter of being a little more consistent. My rounds have been sporadic. I'll get it going for four or five holes, have one or two bad holes, get it going again. 
 You know, you can't do that out here and win golf tournaments. You have to keep it going consistently. I just haven't done that yet. 

 Q. Tiger, do you have a regimen before and after you play? I mean, stretching, any of that? 
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I do. 

 Q. You're still in a rehab mode or not? You're past all that? 
 TIGER WOODS: No. I guess you're always rehabbing, I guess. As far as keeping the strength up, that's the main concern is making sure that's good. Keep my weight up, which I always struggle with. Just one of those things. 

 Q. Keep your weight up? 
 TIGER WOODS: I always lose a bunch of weight when I play out here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT