THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 4, 2009
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tiger, I know it was tough to finish with a bogey on 18, but overall a pretty solid round.   
 TIGER WOODS: I hit the ball well all day today. Just leaked it over on 18 and cut it back coming out, didn't get up and down. But overall the day was good.   
  
  Q. 13 of 14 fairways hit today. You have the long ball working.   
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, you know, the swing is starting come around. I'm starting to feel good now. It's been a long time. I'm starting to get my power back. Everything is starting to kind of come around now.   
  
  Q. I know it was more about fun yesterday than necessarily about competition, but did that start things for you?   
 TIGER WOODS: It was fun. We had a great time. The weather wasn't very good, but I think that everyone enjoyed it. We did as players. I think the fans enjoyed it.   
 I don't get a chance to play with Jack very often. He doesn't play hardly any golf anymore. It was pretty impressive for him to golf. When you get to that age, boy, it's hard to move. Especially when it's cold like this and 50 degrees and raining, and he hit the ball really well.   
  
  Q. Tiger, 13 out of 14 fairways. You've got to like the way you stretched the ball.   
 TIGER WOODS: I did. I hit the ball well all day. I hit a few greens. Made a couple putts. Force fed a couple. Just made that bogey there at 18.   
  
  Q. You didn't have any trouble at all with your knee?  
 TIGER WOODS: I'm starting to feel better. That's taking a while. Each and every week, I'm getting my swing back. Just going to take some time. Now that I'm starting to reap the benefits of it.   
  
  Q. The drivers settled down?   
 TIGER WOODS: I went with a little more loft, 10 Degree. As I've gotten -- as my release has changed over time with Hank, I needed a little more loft to get the ball in the air, little more stem. Still hitting it just as far but probably a different way.   
  
  Q. What are you using for the long 4?   
 TIGER WOODS: 9 1/2. The course dried out quite a bit compared to yesterday. I didn't think it was going to be this fast. The greens were really quick. Some of the putts down the hills got away from us a couple of times.   
 You had to be aware of them. After playing yesterday in the rain, I didn't think they would be this fast, but they're rolling over.   
  
  Q. Is it coming together with the practice at home?   
 TIGER WOODS: I've seen it coming together for the last month or so. It's just that unfortunately it's one of those things where I would do it sporadically because it's coming. It just needs to be a little more consistent. Today I did it all day.   
  
  Q. Do you have a game plan for visiting Long Island next week?   
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I'll get up there.   
  
  Q. Everyone's been focusing on your driving, but your irons look very sharp.   
 TIGER WOODS: Everything felt pretty good, to some degree. My swing felt good. Even my putting stroke felt good. A couple of bad pitches here and there.   
 But overall, I felt like I controlled the ball well all day. Especially with the wind blowing like this, you have to hit it flush. I did that all day. I didn't miss any shots.   
  
  Q. Are you very close to being back long with the drivers?   
 TIGER WOODS: Not quite there yet. I don't have all my length back. It's getting better each and every week. My speed is coming back. My power's coming back. It's taken a lot longer than I thought it would, but then again, most people that play other sports take two years to come back. So it's a little bit different.   
  
  Q. Have you talked to Ernie or Vijay or any of the other guys that have had knee stuff? Any feedback? I know yours was much more radical than theirs? Ernie took a year.   
 TIGER WOODS: Ernie is the only one where we both have our impact legs. I think the right leg is a totally different deal. Left leg is -- it takes the brunt of it, of your golf swing, if you're right-handed, and you just have to train really hard and be patient with it.   
  
  Q. So a good score considering only one birdie on par 5?   
 TIGER WOODS: I was right there next to the green at 5. A simple little chip there at 7, just messed that up. And then missed a -- left it out there on 11. I was right there, unfortunately only 1 out of 4.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT