THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2009
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tough day today for you?
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, it was. I just kept hitting those spinners up to the right, and it was frustrating because if I aim down the right side, I'd spin it to the right; aim down the left side, spin it to the right. I tried to put the release in early enough, but it still wasn't right. 

 Q. I imagine this was the first time you played back-to-back tournaments. How was the knee?
 TIGER WOODS: Knee feels great, no issues at all. That's a great sign. It's something we were wondering about at the beginning of the season when we first started out, first coming back, and I didn't know how that was going to operate. But it feels good. 

 Q. Fixing the swing, are you concerned?
 TIGER WOODS: I'll fix it. When you're playing a golf course like this and you don't have it and the greens are this fast and this hard, you can shoot some pretty high numbers. As you can see out there, some guys probably went pretty high.

 Q. How good is a 66 with no bogeys from the Swede?
 TIGER WOODS: Pretty incredible. He played great. We all know he's got all the talent in the world to do this. It was just a matter of time before he put it together. To do it on this stage was pretty impressive.

 Q. At what point do you feel that it's gotten away from you, the chance to win? 
 TIGER WOODS: You know, probably not -- after I bogeyed 10, I said, I have to birdie 11 and 12 to get back in it. If I do that, then I've got a shot at it still. I didn't birdie either one of those holes. Even if I birdied, in the end it probably wouldn't be good enough.

 Q. You rarely have to talk about your tee-to-green inadequacies. Are you mystified at this point technically? Are you wondering what's wrong?
 TIGER WOODS: No, it's not that bad. If I had a two-way miss, then obviously I'd be a lot more concerned than I am now, but just a one-way miss like today, you can aim for it, at least I can take out one side of the golf course, and as I said, on a golf course like this, if you're not on, it's really hard to shoot a good number. 

 Q. What does it do for your confidence when you're sitting there, you hit a great one on No. 1 and you kind of flare it out to the right. Is it hard for you to then come back and hit good shots after that?
 TIGER WOODS: Well, the second shot was in between clubs and probably pulled the wrong club there and didn't make a very good swing because I wasn't committed to the club. 
 Then 2, I hit just a quick hook off that tee, tried to turn it over, and compounded the problem with my next shot.

 Q. Do you have time to get yourself straightened out before the Open?
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I've got plenty of time. 

 Q. Will you take a little time to take it easy, or do you go right back at it? 
 TIGER WOODS: No, I've got a concert to host this weekend, so we've got a little bit of work to do, not golf stuff, but organizing that and all the things that come with it.

 Q. Are you going to bring Hank in? Is it something that he needs to look at it, or can you figure it out yourself?
 TIGER WOODS: We know what it is, it's just a matter of me doing it. I just haven't -- sometimes, as we all know, playing the game is harder to do on the golf course. I just need to do a little better job of it.

 Q. Will you make the Magic game tonight?
 TIGER WOODS: Tonight? No. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT