THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2009
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Is this sort of like how your year has been going, what today was like?
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I hit it right there the first four holes right out of the gate, inside 15 feet on all four of them, and didn't make any of them. No, I hung in there, and unfortunately just didn't make enough putts today. I was in position all day to make putts and just didn't do it.

 Q. Were you happy with the way you were hitting the ball?
 TIGER WOODS: I hit the ball well today, I really did. It's just unfortunately I didn't capitalize on my opportunities today. I had quite a few of them.

 Q. Yesterday you pushed a lot of shots. Did you work out something overnight?
 TIGER WOODS: Yesterday I was flinching all the time, all the cameras were going off in my downswing. I didn't have that problem today, which was nice, and I can go ahead and actually play a little bit of golf.

 Q. Is a day like today frustrating, disappointing? 
 TIGER WOODS: Both. I hit the ball well enough to -- this is probably the highest score I could have shot today, and I didn't get a whole lot out of my round today. That's the way it goes. 

 Q. What was with the putter? 
 TIGER WOODS: I didn't hit good putts. My speed was off early, then I got my speed down at the end and I kept lipping out putts. I just need to obviously read them better or hit better putts, one of the two.

 Q. What are your thoughts on the greens, because you weren't here last year, so you've really only had one full year on these new greens. 
 TIGER WOODS: They're certainly way different than what we played before. This time of year they're all Bermuda and there's no overseeding anymore. They're certainly much faster downgrain than they used to be. You've just got to be careful on some of the downgrain putts that it doesn't run off on you, especially when you get putts that come up over a rise and fall away from you, you've got to the be careful. Ernie today had a couple putts that went 16 feet by and looked like good putts, looked like they had a chance to go in. You've got to be careful out there.

 Q. Can you explain what happened on 14 with the drive and how you pulled yourself out of a moment of frustration?
 TIGER WOODS: I hit a bad tee shot. Ernie just hit a quick hook in the water and unfortunately I let that influence me in my shot and I hit one straight right. That's just the way it goes.

 Q. You played a couple rounds last week with Toms. He's up among the leaders, was solo leading a minute ago. Seems like the golf course might be well-suited for him. 
 TIGER WOODS: I think it's suited for pretty much anyone. It's fast, it's running so everybody is going to be hitting the ball in the same spots. It's just a matter of hitting the ball well enough and obviously holing putts out here. You know, it is getting a little bit tricky with the speed of the fairways, getting the ball in play. That's about the only thing you really have to watch out for because the greens are pretty receptive still.

 Q. Can you take us through 16?
 TIGER WOODS: 16, I hit a 3-wood around a corner, hit a 7-iron in there to about three feet and made it. 

 Q. Do you like it the way it's set up now?
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, much better.

 Q. Prefer it to the old way?
 TIGER WOODS: Much better. I didn't like playing here when we caught mud balls all the time. It's not a golf course where you want to have mud balls. It was nice to play it this way. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT