QUAIL HOLLOW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 2009
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tiger, you put together a bunch of great swings. Talk about going into tomorrow. 
 TIGER WOODS: I hit the ball better today, no doubt. Obviously the last two holes not very good there. I hit two 7-irons the last two holes to make two bogeys. That's not the way you want to finish. But I've got a shot going into tomorrow.

 Q. A terrific tee shot on the last one, and the fact that you pretty much hit it right over the flagstick with a 7-iron, does that make you feel any better about it?
 TIGER WOODS: Well, it took me three to get down from there, so it's not good. Again, I hit some good shots on the back nine, which was nice to see and nice to feel.

 Q. Still, going into Sunday with a chance to win, a great chance to win. You've got to feel pretty good. 
 TIGER WOODS: No doubt. We'll see what the weather holds for us tomorrow, what we get. These greens are getting really, really dicey right now. You've got to be below the hole because anything above the hole, the ball is wobbling all over the place. 

 Q. You took advantage of those par-5s. Even with a few missed opportunities you played those 4-under. A pretty decent day. 
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I hit the ball better today than I did the last couple days. Unfortunately the last couple holes were not very good. Unfortunately I had two 7-irons leading to two bogeys, but at least I've got a shot going into tomorrow.

 Q. The green speeds seemed to change late. The cloud cover came in --
 TIGER WOODS: It did, yeah, absolutely no doubt about it. The greens did slow up a little bit, but it was amazing. I think they're actually kind of getting ready for a major championship around here because these greens, you get above the hole, you're not going to make a whole lot of putts from above the hole because the ball is wobbling all over the place, so you have to be below the hole, and at least from there you can take a rap at a putt.

 Q. Kind of reminds me of a sort Augusta the way it's playing, you've got to put your ball in the right spots in the greens or good luck to you. 
 TIGER WOODS: You have to. You have to hit the ball well all day. Marginal shots here, you're going to have some really tough putts, and just like Augusta, almost impossible up-and-downs. 

 Q. What do you feel like your chances are tomorrow?
 TIGER WOODS: I feel better today. I hit the ball better. Unfortunately I couldn't finish off my round again today. Two 7-irons in there to make two bogeys is not very good.

 Q. It looked like you liked that 7-iron on 18. 
 TIGER WOODS: I did. The wind just switched a little bit. We played it into the wind, the wind switched down, ended up in a bad spot, hit a decent chip, not a great chip, but hit a terrible putt, pulled it. 

 Q. Did you find something with your shot on the back nine? 
 TIGER WOODS: I did. I found my golf swing a little bit. It was nice. I hit some good shots. I was able to control my flight. With the wind blowing like this, you have to be able to control your flight around here because it's blowing all over the place. You know, any kind of funky spin on it, it's going to get nailed.

 Q. Final group or second-to-last group, does it matter to you?
 TIGER WOODS: I think I'll be second to last. I'm only two back as of right now, which is nice, and I've got a good shot at it going into tomorrow.

 Q. Where and how did you find your swing? 
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I know what I did wrong on 9, so I tried not to do that again. And I hit a good one down 10 and basically hit it good from then on.

 Q. The drive on 10 kind of --
 TIGER WOODS: 10 felt good. I hit a nice little drive down there in play, hit a great 3-iron in there and really hit some good shots after that. 

 Q. How mentally taxing was today?
 TIGER WOODS: This is very similar to a major. We were kind of joking out there today, they're trying to audition for a major championship down the road. The only difference is there's no rough right now. You add rough, make it a par-70 and there you go. 
 With the humidity coming in here, the storms coming in, it changes the green speeds. But before that, man, the greens were fast. They were hard, fast and crusty. Any putt above the hole, you didn't have a good chance of making it because it was going to be wobbling all over the place. You had to hit your irons well, hit it below the hole to give yourself a putt at it.

 Q. Did you like it, though?
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I kind of like major championships.

 Q. What iron did you hit on 15? 
 TIGER WOODS: 15 I hit 4-iron. I had 210 to the hole.

 Q. Secondly, the eagle putt on 10, when you hit it, would you have thought it would have gone six, seven feet by?
 TIGER WOODS: No, no. I didn't think I hit that bad a putt, maybe two feet past. I know it turns down the hill, it goes up and then down, but that thing just kept going forever. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT