QUAIL HOLLOW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 1, 2009
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A 72 out there today, a struggle out there today?  
 TIGER WOODS: My iron game was spotty here and there, but I just kind of hung around. Unfortunately I didn't hit it very well. I didn't get the most out of my round, that's for sure.  
  
  Q. Talk about those finishing holes because they are obviously very difficult.   
 TIGER WOODS: 16 is not that hard.   
 17 and 18 are definitely playing difficult. 17 it's hard to keep the ball on the green without going in the water. If you get it turning at all with the wind, it's wet.  
 18, it's a tough driving hole with that wind left to right. The green is exposed and it's really tough.   
  
  Q. Are you happy with today's round?  
 TIGER WOODS: No, I didn't drive the ball particularly well today, didn't hit my irons as well as I'd like. I was hanging in there. If I could have posted 9, I would have probably gotten the most out of that round I could have possibly. It just didn't work out that way, especially coming in. But overall it's not that bad, considering the way I was hitting the golf ball today.  
  
  Q. No rough, fast course. Compared to the way it was when you won here, do you like it this way or prefer it the old way?  
 TIGER WOODS: Just different, it really is. It's fun either way. Either you are very conservative off the tees or this week you can get pretty aggressive and get it down there. And with the greens being this fast and this hard, you'd better have a short iron in your hand. Especially with the wind swirling like this in the trees, it's tough to get the ball pin high. Normally around this golf course it's really not that hard. But when it gets like this it's really hard to get the ball the proper distance.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 TIGER WOODS: 14, I didn't turn it over enough off the tee and ended up having to fight for a 4. And then at 15 I was right there in front of the green; it's an easy pitch, and I don't know what happened. I know I hit it way too hard. But it was just a bad pitch that I left myself a tough putt and just didn't quite get the putt right.  
  
  Q. David seemed to stay on the lip, he pitched right in front of you and stayed on the lip; Furyk's came in, went to the right. You went with maybe straight?  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, these greens being this fast, you know, late in the afternoon on poa, it takes a little bit. You need to stay below the hole. You have to stay below the hole in order to have a putt at it because it's going to wobble on you a little bit. You've got to take that out by being below the hole.   
 It was a bad leave. I should have left that chip below the hole, have an easy putt right up the hill. Instead I blew it by the hill and had a really tough putt.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about your putt at 9, initially what your thoughts were?  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, every year I've played here I've had the same exact putt, and I've left it anywhere between three and six feet short. So I kept telling myself I know it's into the grain up the hill, then it goes downgrain once it gets over the crest, just make sure you get it to the hole. Well, it would have been in the grandstands if it didn't hit the hole. It was nice to have a train wreck and have it go in.  
  
  Q. How hard are the last three holes compared to the rest of the course?  
 TIGER WOODS: 16 is really not that bad because it's playing kind of down cross.   
 17 is really tough. If you get that thing turning with the wind at all, it's going to be in the water. It's a really tough shot. You've got to hit a good shot. There's no wiggle room there, you've got to hit a good one.  
 And 18 is a tough tee shot with the wind left to right, and then that green is exposed as it is. It's pretty quick.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT