WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 30, 2019
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tiger, what do you think the difference was today?
TIGER WOODS: Well, we had some interesting conditions today.  I guess that front was coming through about 11:00.  The wind changed.  I played pretty consistent the entire day.  Felt like I didn't give him any holes.  And Rory didn't make any putts today.  I think he made two birdies today.  It was just a tough day all around.  I'm happy I advanced.
Q. It's only the round of 16 but from outside the ropes it had a big feel to it.  What was it like for you inside?
TIGER WOODS: It was big for us inside the ropes, too.  It was a fun match for us.  I know that we battled pretty hard against one another and we thoroughly enjoyed it.  I was fortunate to come out on top.
Q. There are a lot of ways to have measuring sticks as far as your game and where you stand right now.  What does today's match mean for you?
TIGER WOODS: Today's match means that I play in the afternoon.  So I'm looking forward to getting out there this afternoon and playing.  Got to refocus and be ready.
Q. Obviously it's a match that the world of golf was pretty excited to see.  How satisfied are you to come through it?
TIGER WOODS: It was a tough match for both of us.  I mean, I knew that it was going to be a ball-striking match.  We were both playing well coming into this match, and the year that Rory has had, he doesn't do anything poorly.  I tried to match him shot for shot with ball-striking and hopefully make a couple of putts here and there.  Rory made a couple of birdies, I only made a couple of birdies.  It was a tough day with the conditions changing.  The front came through and threw us for a little bit of a loop.
Q. It's hard to think of two better frontrunners in the world of golf.  How important was that start for you?
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, you know, it was nice to make a couple of birdies in a row and to take that lead.  From what I've been told is that Rory hasn't been down in a match yet in his first three matches.  And I tried to get that momentum.  Fortunately I got to a 3-up lead through 10.  He made a mistake on 10.  He chipped away at it with a couple of birdies and came pretty tight coming on 16 and 17.
Q. Rory came in having not trailed.  So you grabbed that momentum early with birdies at 5 and 6.  That had to be huge.
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, it was.  Because exactly what I've been told is he hasn't trailed in a match yet.  It was nice to get that lead, especially back-to-back holes, too.  From there he gave me a gift at 10.  He chipped away at it with a couple of birdies of his own on 12 and 13.  And 16 was tough.  The wind is blowing as hard as it is, his ball got knocked down.  My ball here on 17 was supposed to be downwind, came back into my face.  And that's just the way it is with these hills, the way the fronts come through.  And it was a difficult day for both of us.
Q. Lucas Bjerregaard and the Elite 8, you feel good about the game, the swing right now?
TIGER WOODS: I do.  I'm looking forward to the match.  I'm happy to be advancing and playing this afternoon.  Quick bite to eat and off I go.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT