WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2009
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A lot of tap-in pars today, looks like you hit the ball pretty well but couldn't get it in the hole.   
 TIGER WOODS: I did. It was a little bit frustrating on those greens today. I hit so many putts that looked good. I thought I hit my lines and thought I had the right speed, but they just didn't go in.   
  
  Q. How do you rebound from that? Do you just keep doing the same things?  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I'll just keep doing the same things. It's not like I was playing poorly or struggling all the way around. I had my speed on the greens all day.   
  
  Q. How did it feel out there?  
 TIGER WOODS: It's nice to just play the golf course, too, that helps. Getting in a better environment was good at Tucson, but here, you're just playing the golf course, which is nice, and just focus on my own game and just kind of plod my way along.   
  
  Q. Is frustration the word of the day? I know you expected the light to come on the first time you came out, and I know that makes you doubly frustrated --  
 TIGER WOODS: It wasn't like I hit bad putts. That's the thing. If I was struggling on the greens today, then yeah, I would be a lot more frustrated, but I hit good putts and they just didn't go in. That's all right. If you continue hitting good putts, they will eventually start going in.   
  
  Q. Is it difficult when you look at the leaderboard, there's three guys at seven and guys at six and five, do you have to change what you're going to do from now on?  
 TIGER WOODS: No, if you go over the round, the putts I lipped out; those putts lip in, that's 4- or 5-under par right there, no problem.   
 So I was very close to shooting that number; to only be two or three back. So it was not like I was playing poorly and shot 71. I played well and just didn't make the putts.   
  
  Q. For equipment, you have a new driver and new irons since Torrey Pines; how do you explain to us, the difference?   
 TIGER WOODS: The irons feel exactly the same. The irons feel the same specs, same loft, same shafts, same grips, same everything.  
 The driver is different, a little smaller which is nice. I've always preferred a smaller-headed driver. It's a nice feeling, something closer to my 3-wood now. Everything is exactly the same, swing weight, spec, length, shaft. Everything is the same, except the head is just a little bit smaller.   
  
  Q. What did you hit on 15?  
 TIGER WOODS: 7-iron.   
  
  Q. Did it have a shot at going in?  
 TIGER WOODS: We can't see it. We can't see the bottom of the hole now. It looked good when it landed. Other than that, had to wait until we got up to the green.  
  
  Q. When you tee it up do you stop and smell the roses and notice things in the crowd at all?  
 TIGER WOODS: A little bit here and there. Today I was trying to figure it out, how to get the ball in the hole a little bit faster than what I was doing. You know, it was nice having Weirsy along there, because obviously we have been great friends for a number of years, so we had a great time out there talking about a lot of different things.  
  
  Q. Changes for tomorrow?  
 TIGER WOODS: I need to be just a touch sharper. I hit the ball well all day today. If a few putts went in, score would be totally different.  
  
  Q. Do you allow for the fact that you missed eight months, or are your expectations just the same?  
 TIGER WOODS: The Match Play helped a lot to get into the competitive environment, to feel that again.   
 Now playing stroke play, it really does feel like -- like Stevie says, feels like we just took three or four weeks off and here we are again.   
  
  Q. What did you hit on 4?   
 TIGER WOODS: 4-iron, stuck in the ground a little bit.   
  
  Q. For people who don't play golf and they look at you and think you can come out here every time and you're going to shoot 64,65, you're leading; is it hard to explain how unreal that expectation is, especially on a day where you are hitting the ball well?   
 TIGER WOODS: Well, if I shot 64 every round, 20-under par would be pretty good. It's just one of those things that we all know playing the game of golf, you are going to have days like today, and I would be obviously a little bit more disappointed, a little more frustrated if I had not played well. I felt like I hit the ball well, hit putts well, but they just didn't go in.   
 Like I said, I have to be a little bit sharper tomorrow, hopefully those putts go in tomorrow and the score will be a little different.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT