ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 14, 2008
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Thoughts for the weekend? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I'll have to play better and make a lot more putts than I have been.  I just never got the speed of these things today.  I kept leaving them short and had a hard time getting to the hole. 

 Q.  Frustrating right now, you birdied the ninth hole -- 
 TIGER WOODS:  I just wasn't swinging the club very well today and when I did put myself in position to make a putt, I didn't make them. 

 Q.  Seven back, two days to go, still within striking distance? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Oh, yeah.  I just need to play better and obviously make more putts than I have been.  If I can do that, I'll get myself back in the tournament. 

 Q.  Any idea what the problem is? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, they are all short.  I just could not get them to the hole.  It was frustrating. 

 Q.  So the last one -- 
 TIGER WOODS:  Sums up the whole day right there. 

 Q.  Your irons? 
 TIGER WOODS:  About the same, I didn't hit them very good today.  It was decent, not great. 

 Q.  Last time you played greens this slow? 
 TIGER WOODS:  THE TOUR Championship they were slow, but they were smoother.  These are slow and -- like I said yesterday, the hard part was every green is slightly different speeds, and I have to make the adjustments and I was struggling to make the adjustment today. 

 Q.  Is there a part of you that's afraid to give it a go? 
 TIGER WOODS:  You don't want those coming back, not on these things. 

 Q.  3-putts today? 
 TIGER WOODS:  No, zero. 

 Q.  That's good. 
 TIGER WOODS:  That is good.  Just lag them up there and tap them in. 

 Q.  How about the shot out of the rough on 18? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Well, it was a hit-and-hope.  I had 83 to the hole and I had 6-iron and just aimed a little left of the hole, swing hard and hopefully it comes out.  If it doesn't, I'm dropping, probably making seven. 

 Q.  You pushed a couple at the end. 
 TIGER WOODS:  More than just a couple.  Yeah, I was laying the club down quite a bit pretty much all day, and just one of those things where if I stayed back, I hit the flip hook.  If I fight the flip hook, I get ahead of it, I hit it straight right and somewhere in between, you have to time it.  Not where you need to have it.  I'll do some work tonight and probably do a little work tomorrow morning and I'll be all right. 

 Q.  A timing issue? 
 TIGER WOODS:  It's a club position issue.  If you have the club in a bad position, even if you're right on timing, it's not what you want to have happen. 

 Q.  Somebody says Ben Hogan, what do you think? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Well, he hit it pretty good. 

 Q.  Can you go at the flags a little more aggressively? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I guess you could.  But I wasn't swinging good enough to take advantage of that.  I was playing a little more conservative on some of my distances. 

 Q.  With the work you've done on your putting, does it not matter a week like this? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I hit good putts, and just obviously hit them harder. 

 Q.  Is the practice putting green like the greens on the course? 
 TIGER WOODS:  No. 

 Q.  No correlation? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Zero. 

 Q.  So you can't get ready for it no matter what you do? 
 TIGER WOODS:  It's the best green on the property. 

 Q.  What do you do to simulate? 
 TIGER WOODS:  You have to hit them hard -- for me, I had to hit them hard, and I didn't do that today.  I struggled with it, and you know, feeding the putts down, you can't do that.  And then with a little bit of moisture on it, just made it that much more difficult for me. 

 Q.  Does your game plan change at all for tomorrow? 
 TIGER WOODS:  No, it's the same.  Just try to hit the ball a little better and give myself some putting chances and hopefully I can give myself putts where I can go ahead and take a run at them and give them a roll and hopefully go in. 

 Q.  Do you sacrifice some precision? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Well, it's just different, and we've done it before.  We've had to make the adjustments, and I just need to do it.  I just need to make those adjustments. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT