ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 13, 2008
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Evaluate? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Just did not hit my irons very good.  I missed some greens that I don't normally miss.  I missed one with a sand wedge, one with a pitching wedge and mistakes I don't normally make. 

 Q.  Frustrating round for you today? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, because I just didn't hit my irons clean today.  I just couldn't figure it out and got to do some work this afternoon. 

 Q.  What about the greens? 
 TIGER WOODS:  The greens are faster than they were yesterday, but they are all slightly different speeds.  A little bit inconsistent that way, but you have to make the adjustment, and I had no problem making the adjustment today, but most of my putts were for pars. 

 Q.  Is there anything that you can point to since 2003? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I haven't played well.  This golf course, now that they have changed it to a par 70, you really have to play better.  I drove it good today.  I drove a few drives to the right with my driver, but other than that, drove every single fairway.  Just didn't take advantage of it. 
 Didn't feel comfortable with my irons.  Didn't really struggle with distance control, but couldn't get the ball shaped to start on the right line. 

 Q.  Playing with Mark Wilson, tell us about the last time and a little bit about this time.  It's been a while, '92? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I was 16. 

 Q.  Was that your first one or second? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I my second one.  I think it was Wollaston Country Club when we played the U.S. Junior.  It has been a while.  It's good to see him out here and a lot of guys that I grew up playing junior golf with and college golf with are all out here now.  So a lot of good memories. 

 Q.  After seeing what happened out there today, do you feel like you have to start going low? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Not really.  Right now 3-under is only second place.  Freddie is playing well.  I'm only three shots out of second.  I'm not that far out of it.  Just need to hit the ball better than I did today. 

 Q.  With Freddie on top of the leaderboard; is that just the way golf is different?  It's been a while, seeing different guys creeping up week-to-week. 
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, that's the nature of the sport.  The quality of the fields obviously each and every year are getting deeper and deeper, and they are trying to make the courses more difficult every year.  But guys are still shooting good scores. 
 It's good to see Freddie up there.  He might have got a little shot of confidence that now that he's captain and that kind of freed things up.  It's good to see him up there playing. 

 Q.  You've had to stop your swing lots of times; how long has that been going on? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Unfortunately it's been happening a lot lately.  Guys have been taking more photos.  Hey, it is what it is and you know it's going to happen playing out here.  People have cameras.  Photographers may get a little -- trigger finger might get a little heavy there, but hey, it is what it is.  You have to regroup.  I had plenty of time to focus on the next shot, didn't to it, didn't hit a proper shot and was just fortunate to make par. 

 Q.  How are your relocation plans coming?  Maybe next year will you be in Jupiter full-time? 
 TIGER WOODS:  We're still a little ways from construction, so I'm sure it's not going to happen overnight. 

 Q.  Kind of frustrating day today.  How do you go about approaching tomorrow? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I have some work to do this afternoon.  Go back and hit some balls and trying to figure this out.  I have a sense of what I needed to do.  But still need to go out there and actually do the reps and make sure I get nice and comfortable for tomorrow. 

 Q.  Do you usually find a particular answer? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Most of the times you should be able to figure it out.  Today I kind of know what it is but I want to make sure I can go ahead and do some reps and really narrow it down and make sure tomorrow I can come out here with the game plan of what I need to do. 

 Q.  Where were your wedge misses? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Pitching wedge over on 15, made bogey and missed it on 5 with sand wedge. 

 Q.  What happened on 15, bad swing? 
 TIGER WOODS:  That was a terrible shot.  I had pitching wedge downwind off the right and the pin is eight paces from the right.  It not like it's tucked in there three from the right.  I hit it right of the green and you just can't do that. 

 Q.  What was your line on 4? 
 TIGER WOODS:  It was perfect.  I got the greatest break there ever.  I hit a terrible tee shot and had a perfect lie, no problem, and just double-crossed you.  Trying to hit a low cut and I hit a low pull.  Again, left myself with the easiest pitch you could possibly have, and I'm trying to say, just hit it below the hole.  And what did I do?  I hit it past the hole, only place you can't put it. 

 Q.  On Couples, you've seen him inside the team room and most of us see the laid-back, decompressed version out here.  I guess think he's going to be a good captain? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I think he's going to be a great captain.  I've actually gotten a chance to play with him in matches before, and he's a lot more tense than people think.  You see how he walks, his mannerisms, but below the surface, it's raging pretty good.  That's one of the reasons why I've always enjoyed playing with him in these team formats.  It's been a lot of fun.  I think we've played at RTJ and we played together in Australia. 

 Q.  Huge crowd out there following you.  What's your reaction to everyone out there showing up? 
 TIGER WOODS:  It's fantastic. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT