WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 27, 2019
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TIGER WOODS: I don't know how many holes were halved but there weren't many.  I was up early then all of a sudden I was down, I'm up.  Throw away one there with a three-putt.  There was just a lot of ebb and flow of this match.  It wasn't like we were both playing great golf.  Somehow I came out with a win.   
 Q.  In the old days you used to exact your will on guys who had never played in this format playing against you man to man.  Did you use your experience today to kind of wear down Aaron?  
TIGER WOODS: No, we weren't playing that great today.  We were both struggling a little bit.  If this was a stroke play event, we'd be pretty far behind.  But it was just trying to beat the guy in front of you and that was about it.  And I was able to advance.   
 Q.  How satisfying is that?  
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, it is.  Considering neither one of us really played that great today.  It was a pretty emotional match because we were up and down, up and down.  There weren't a lot of holes halved.  And I was just kind of hanging in there.  I was up early and then all of a sudden I'm down.  And it looked like I was going to go 2-down and all of a sudden it's all square.  Then I am flipping it up, then I throw away one with a three-putt.  It was one of those matches where we weren't playing our best.  And on a golf course like this, it exposed us a little bit.   
 Q.  Can you describe the mentality and some of the thoughts you used to get the job done today.  
TIGER WOODS: It's just advance.  Just beat the guy in front of me.  If it was a stroke play event, he and I would both be pretty far behind the leaders.  But it was just beat the guy that's right in front of you, and I was able to do that.   
 Q.  That was an interesting day.  That was a real roller coaster, wasn't it?  
TIGER WOODS: It was.  We were up and down.  We both weren't that sharp.  These conditions exacerbated it a little bit.  And it was just one of those days where there weren't a whole lot of holes halved, and there weren't a lot of birdies, there were a lot of bogeys, there were three-putts.  And there was just not great golf.  It was scrappy.  But I was able to get a point.   
 Q.  You have Sneds tomorrow, a friend.  That should be an interesting match.  
TIGER WOODS: It is, you know.  Sneds and I have always been great friends.  And it's going to be fun to play against him.  He's a wonderful putter, as we all know.  And in this format that's what you need to do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT