WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 21, 2008
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Tiger, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center, 3 and 2 against Arron Oberholser, pretty good match out there, good start, and you play Aaron Baddeley tomorrow, who didn't get to play today. 
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I saw DT was 1-up right behind me.  He wasn't feeling very good.  Obviously Badds got a bye, and tomorrow will be a good match.  I played a lot better today.  I hit the ball well, and even made a couple putts early. 

 Q.  Does a day off give you an edge in a format like this do you think? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I don't know, you can always spin it anyway you want.  Obviously Badds will think that way, and me on the other side will think it's probably better to play.  You've always got to spin it. 

 Q.  Have you ever been in a situation where you -- 
 TIGER WOODS:  I've never had a bye like that, not where someone has pulled out.  The only time I ever had a bye was the first round at the match play, at the World Match Play, higher seeds got byes there. 

 Q.  Talk about Aaron a little bit and how hard he fought considering his injury? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, he hadn't played all year.  Yesterday was I believe his first round of the year.  We were talking about it a little bit today, and he's just getting started back into the season.  He's still got a little bit of a ways to go before he's pain-free and able to play. 

 Q.  What was the difference today, could you talk a little bit more about the difference between yesterday and today's round? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I did some work last night.  I had a bunch of things I needed to organize, so I did that last night on the range, then did some work in the room and came out today with a game plan of what I needed to do to warm up.  I warmed up well and just had to go out there and trust what I had done over yesterday and last night, and I hit the ball a lot better. 

 Q.  To the degree that you can feel comfortable in a format like this, I think you're 19 and 3 in your last 22 matches in this event.  Does that help you between the ears at all?  It can't hurt. 
 TIGER WOODS:  It doesn't hurt, but it's all in the past.  You've just got to take it one match at a time.  Match play is an animal that's all about the moment.  It's not about building towards Sunday; I mean, if you don't play well, you're going home.  You'd better get organized quick and get off to a quick start and never give holes away.  That's one of the things that I did today versus yesterday.  I never gave Arron a hole and he had to earn the holes.  I didn't make a bogey today.  

 Q.  Is desert golf different for you than what you're usually used to in a usual venue? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I played enough of it.  I grew up in southern California so we played a bunch in Palm Springs and out here.  It is different.  You don't have trees, and when the wind blows you know where it's coming from.  There's no such thing as swirling winds out here.  Today was interesting, though, because the wind wasn't blowing hard enough to stay in a constant direction, so it was switching but it wasn't swirling. 

 Q.  Could you give us a picture of what it's like when you go back to the room to practice?  Do you move out the cushions, do you swing with a driver, do you do mirror drills, hit shots off the cushions? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I just rehearse, just do a little bit of work in front of the mirror, make sure that what I'm feeling is actually what I'm doing.  As we all know, in this game feel and real are usually two different things.  Making sure what I did last night on the range was exactly what I thought I was doing. 
 JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thanks, Tiger. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT