DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 3, 2008
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  What was the turning point, was that the chip-in at 12? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, the chip-in at 12 was a lot harder than people might think, because a ryegrass lie, it's really not that bad, but it's sitting down in bermuda.  You know, there's not a whole lot of bermuda around this place right now. 
 So I just happened to catch one of those lies, and I was just hoping it would come out soft.  I hit it hard and hoping I would kill it and it came out as soft as can be. 

 Q.  Tell us about the tee shot at 17, that was spectacular? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I just wanted to make sure I hit it a little bit left and even if I was in the left rough, just wanted to have an angle at the flag and anything right, you can't stop the ball. 

 Q.  18 was pretty interesting.  Talk us through that one. 
 TIGER WOODS:  Hit a really nice drive, turned it around the corner, and hit a 5-wood up there and just flushed it.  I was trying to hit a high fade in there and hold up against the wind, and I thought I hit it perfect where it was going to be just past the hole and flew even further than I thought. 
 It's a hard bunker shot, but really not that bad and I get down there and it's not in the bunker.  And I'm thinking, I could easily chip the ball in the water.  You have to make your mistake short and if I leave it too short just chip up and try to make a par and probably not going to win the tournament but see what happens.  Got to the green, and put went in. 

 Q.  You said yesterday you needed to putt better, and by our calculation, you had nine or ten on the back nine; what changed? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I felt good today with my stroke.  Yesterday it was just a touch off but today I feel like I rolled the ball well and all week I've had good pace.  When you have good pace, you can read the greens and I was reading them pretty good all week. 

 Q.  Word for Ernie? 
 TIGER WOODS:  You know, just the way it goes sometimes.  He played well.  It came down to the last hole.  I did the same thing yesterday.  I hit it right of the flag, and if you up shoot it at all into that wind, people don't realise how hard it's blowing above the grandstands here because there really are not any flags to indicate it.  You get the ball kicking up above the grandstands, it gets killed pretty quick. 

 Q.  What sort of platform does win-win start to the season give you for the rest of the year? 
 TIGER WOODS:  It's an ideal start.  To go two-for-two, it's a pretty good start. 

 Q.  The gap between you and Phil Mickelson at No. 2 is wider than the gap between No. 2 and 1,000 in the world.  What is the main attribute you would say that makes you so dominant? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I thought Poulter was No. 2 in the world.  (Laughter). 
 No, hey, just go out there and play and play to win and you know, so far, that's what I've done this year. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT