THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 17, 2019
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. The move to March after May, how would you assess this week for you?
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I was close to getting over the hurdle and getting things rolling, and unfortunately I made a 7 over at 17.  I missed a few putts that I could have very easily got the momentum going that could have gotten me on a run.  I was close.  I mean, I know that the score doesn't really indicate that, but this is one of the golf courses that it will -- there's some weird spots here, and it was fun to play but also I was telling Sandsy this is probably the most stressful golf course you ever play when there's wind out here.  It just, the wind swirls and you have fairways that are tough to hit and then you have the greens that are tough to hit and put it in the right sections, and if you don't, you're going to be standing on your head hitting some shots.  So only had a few of those this week, so all in all it was a solid week.
Q. You had your best score of the week in the toughest conditions, so is that experience there today?
TIGER WOODS: I think it's just because I felt like I was playing well.  My score didn't really indicate that going into the final day, but I was hitting the golf ball well and I'm frustrated at lipping more putts out than I think I have in a very long time, just one of those weeks where just nothing really got rolling enough to get me going.
Q. In general terms what pleased you most about your game now and what do you think you need to work on?
TIGER WOODS: I'm excited the way I drove it.  I drove the ball well this week.  I drove it not quite as long on the weekend with a little bit cooler temperatures, but I was driving it pretty straight and I was able to shape the golf ball both ways with all three of my woods, which was good to see.
Q. What went into laying up on 12 today?
TIGER WOODS: Well, I wanted to go.  It was 280, but the way I was hitting my driver today, it just, I was spinning and so, yeah, I was hitting the ball in the fairway.  I don't think I really missed a fairway with the driver, but it was just spinny and that little spinny cut out there wasn't going to carry it.  And I just didn't quite feel comfortable hitting a big tomahawk draw, either, and so I decided to lay up, my wedge game has been good, last year and this year, so take advantage of my wedge game, and unfortunately I just didn't make birdie.
Q. How do you feel about the state of your game as it relates to Augusta versus how you hoped to feel at this point?
TIGER WOODS: It's right on track.  I feel like I'm able to start -- I'm able to shape the golf ball both ways, which I'm going to need there.  Just need a few more putts go in, but that's about it.
Q. Was last week not as much of a setback then as we might have thought, given you missed a tournament you wanted to play?
TIGER WOODS: Well, I needed that.  I needed to get that organized, and as I was telling you guys earlier in the week, if my back gets tight, it's going to go up the chain and so I got to start at ground zero and get my lower back moving properly and get everything, the firing sequence good, and then after that the rest of the chain will take care of itself.
Q. In a way is that maybe a good thing?  You would have had four of five weeks, pretty stressful conditions, obviously, L.A., Mexico, hot, altitude and everything, and maybe looking back maybe that's a good thing?
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I think that it was the right decision to make considering that I have April right around the corner.  So make sure I get that organized coming into a week where -- this week, as I said, you can hit a few shots where you're standing on your head having to hit some weird shots, and the way I was feeling it in Mexico, that would have been a tall order for me.
Q. Is there any concern going to Match Play with the amount of golf you might have to play that week if you make it the whole way to Sunday?
TIGER WOODS: No, I got a week off after that, so no.  I'm hoping that I can play all the matches.  That would be great, I'm guaranteed to play three instead of -- when I played it was only one guaranteed, so that's kind of nice knowing that I'll be able to get at least three good rounds in, possibly more if I play well, and that's basically like a tournament.
Q. What happened on 17 yesterday got very popular on social media.  Just did you get any reaction from your children and how much they --
TIGER WOODS: My kids?  My kids never saw it, so...
Q. I mean through social media?
TIGER WOODS: No.  I don't let them go on social media.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT