THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 14, 2007
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  What's your mind frame when you make the turn at 28? 
 TIGER WOODS:  One, to shoot under par on that back nine.  I felt if I shot under par I would increase my lead, and that would have been the case if I would have done it.  But two bogeys on the back nine kind of derailed that. 

 Q.  When you holed out from the bunker on 5, talk about that shot. 
 TIGER WOODS:  Well, I didn't have a very good lie, and I was just trying to basically get myself inside 10, 15 feet so I'd have a putt at it.  There was a bunch of sand there and I hit it pretty hard and it came out great, but I still thought it was going to go by the hole about eight feet.  Next thing you know, I hear a big roar.  I thought it hit the flag and scooted off to the side, okay, no big deal.  I walked up and it was gone.  Nice surprise. 

 Q.  And on 9 when you made the eagle? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I was just trying to get it close.  I was concentrating on my speed and trying to leave myself no second putt, trying to make sure I had a little tap-in for my second putt.  Lo and behold, it was a bomb and goes in. 

 Q.  Things were definitely going your way.  What kind of number did you think you would be able to shoot? 
 TIGER WOODS:  You say I shot 28.  I didn't know I shot that until I got in the scoring tent.  You just play shot for shot, hole for hole, and you just get lost into that type of rhythm and that type of mindset and you don't really realize the score you're at.  I just knew that at the time I had a three-shot lead over Woody and I just wanted to make sure I could try and increase that on the back nine. 

 Q.  After you made that putt on 9 and kind of put your head in your hands, are there times you surprise yourself? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, if you could have seen that putt, how much it was bouncing all over the place.  It was going all different directions.  How it found the bottom of the hole, I have no idea. 

 Q.  What's it like when you get on a roll like that and you want it keep it going?  How hard is it to keep the momentum? 
 TIGER WOODS:  You just play shot for shot.  Your mindset doesn't change.  You place the ball where you need to place it and your mindset doesn't change. 

 Q.  This target practice, which is pretty much what it is, how do you like that compared to a course that's really going to test you? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Well, the creativity is gone.  Shot-making is pretty much out the door here.  All you need to do is hit the ball to your number.  You can hit the ball low, high, medium, whatever trajectory, it's just going to plug.  So controlling your spin in the air and controlling it on the ground has been taken away.  So you just try to hit your number, whatever trajectory you want to hit it at, make sure you hit your number and it's just going to go splat and then you have a putt at it. 
 It's just different.  We play like that on the West Coast every now and then, but we've never played this golf course like this.  This golf course has typically been hard, fast greens with high Bermuda rough. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT