DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2007
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Your drives on the front nine were long and accurate.  Did you lose a little something there on the back?  It seemed like you found a little more trouble as it went on. 
 TIGER WOODS:  Basically I only hit one bad shot on the back nine with a driver or with any -- any shot off the tee.  That was it, and it was probably a line I would have taken with my 3-wood and I hit driver.  I should have never hit driver on that hole anyways.  3-wood is 320 or 330 on that hole anyways; wrong club off the tee. 

 Q.  Describe the feeling you left with the last couple holes. 
 TIGER WOODS:  I can describe it a lot of different ways, but I'll just leave it as I'm not very happy right now. 

 Q.  This could have been -- the way you were going, it could have been a really special round. 
 TIGER WOODS:  Well, it had to be.  I wouldn't necessarily say special, but it was going well, and I needed to continue making birdies.  Guys were making a bunch of birdies back there, even though conditions are a little bit different, little difficult today.  The greens perfect; you get the ball anywhere on the greens you should be able to make a putt. 

 Q.  Mentally what does that round do as far as prepping you for tomorrow? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Well, instead of being two or three back, I'll be five or six back.  I'm going to have to actually shoot a really low round tomorrow and hopefully it'll be enough. 

 Q.  What can you tell us about Wetterich maybe from the dinner you took him to, the rookie deal from last year?  He's still a relatively new commodity up there on the leaderboard. 
 TIGER WOODS:  Brett is a great guy.  He can make a bunch of birdies.  He plays extremely aggressive, very strong, very powerful.  It's just a matter of him being up there in contention enough times to gain the experience because we all know he has the talent to be up there consistently, it's just a matter of being up there. 

 Q.  He didn't really blink when he was paired with you at Doral, didn't go really low, and you did what you had to do, but it's not like the wheels fell off for him, which had to be a developmental step? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I think so.  I think the guy is one of the greatest guys out here.  He's a great guy to be around.  He's always upbeat.  He's probably one of the guys that as we all know is extremely powerful, so if he gets it going, he can reach any par 5, so that's always a huge advantage. 

 Q.  Was that a tough pin on 18 to get close to? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I don't really know how you can get close to it.  You're not going to short-side yourself and put it in the creek.  And if you do miss it, you've got to miss it to the right so at least you have an angle.  But Elk hit his shot and it somehow stayed pin high, but probably not the side to put it on. 

 Q.  What do you attribute the struggles to on the last two holes personally? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Just bad speed.  Just terrible speed.  I ran the first putt by on 17 about seven feet and then probably the last one about ten feet.  Just not very good there. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT