THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 14, 2019
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How was it?
TIGER WOODS: It was all right today.  The wind was blowing early.  Died down at the end, and felt like we could capitalize on a little bit on our back nine, which wasn't so bad.
Q. You grinded today, and I know 18 was a disappointment, but overall pleased?
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I felt like I could have got something in the 60s today and got off to not actually the best of starts today.  I hit some bad shots early, rectified that, made a few adjustments, and then went about my business, and then the back nine, there's nine holes on the back nine, made one par, so that was interesting.
Q. Talk about tomorrow, the weather should be pretty calm when you go out early in the morning and it might be a chance to take advantage.
TIGER WOODS: Yeah, that's what most of the guys did early today.  They all went low and all the low rounds seemed like were predominantly in the morning.  Hopefully we can catch it on the calm side and some smoother greens and get it -- post a low number and then see if the guys have to face what we had to face in the afternoon with the wind moving pretty good.
Q. And the putting was pretty good?
TIGER WOODS: I felt like I rolled it today.  I felt like I was able to get up there, and I felt comfortable.  I was able to rip it, and I felt pretty good.
Q. Were you holding your breath on 17?
TIGER WOODS: No, it's fun, right?  Underneath the hole, uphill putt?
Q. What happened on 2?
TIGER WOODS: On 2, I just hit a snap hook off the tee, trying to turn it.  The wind is howling off the left and you have to turn the ball, and I just hit a toe ball quick hook.  Simple as that.
Q. What you've been working on with your putting, is that in play now comfortably or is it something that's a work in progress?
TIGER WOODS: Well, it wasn't like I had to do a lot.  I just got back into something that I do naturally.  I putt with the toe moving and toe releasing.  My face moves a lot more than most players do, and we just went back to that.  I feel like I can go ahead and hit it with my right hand again.  That's how I've always putted.  I always had a lot of hit in my stroke, and that felt good again.
Q. When was the last time you only made one par on the back nine or front nine?
TIGER WOODS: I don't know, that's been a while.  Usually if I had one par it's usually shooting 30 or 29, not what I did today.
Q. A shot like your approach at 14, does that give you any pause, given what you went through last week?
TIGER WOODS: No, I'm all good with that.  I was just trying to hit a big cut up there and try and miss it in the left bunker, to be honest with you, and I hit it straight on top of the face.  The ball was sitting up and I tried to hit down on it and cut it and caught it right on top of the face.
Q. Was it a misclub on 11?
TIGER WOODS: No, I was trying to hit a 3 wood up there, up the left side, and I was trying to hit down on it to try and get up out of that grass, and when I hit down on it, I toed it, and it just rode the wind and just went.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT