WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 2, 2007
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Overall how satisfied were you?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Very satisfied.  I hit the ball pretty good today and just hit a couple loose ones.  Short game was decent today.  Thought I had some pretty good touch on the greens.   
  
  Q.  Comfortable when you come back here?   
 TIGER WOODS:  I do feel comfortable here.  I don't know what it is.  It fits my eye.  A lot of holes naturally fit my eye, and for some reason I've had some success here.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about how the course is playing today as compared to past years?   
 TIGER WOODS:  I don't think I've ever seen it this fast.  Fairways are really quick.  The greens are unbelievably quick.  Everything above the hole you've got to really pay attention because there's a couple holes you can putt right off the green.  I'm sure some guys will putt off the green today on 12.   
 So it's certainly playing different than most years.  Most years it's raining here, ball is plugging, you've got some low scores.  But not this year.  Right now 3-under par is leading, and that's a heck of a round around here.   
  
  Q.  You're right there once again.  Do you almost expect to win here now considering the staggering success you've had here?   
 TIGER WOODS:  That's the mindset going in.  You always have to have that mindset.  If you don't there's really no reason to tee it up.   
  
  Q.  This is the first time you played with the young Romero.  What did you think?   
 TIGER WOODS:  I was impressed.  He hit the ball awfully long.  He's longer with irons than I am and probably slightly longer with the driver.  I can see how -- he's pretty aggressive.  I can see how he made ten birdies on Sunday at the Open Championship.  He gets going.  He's got a good touch around the greens, and you can see just by his aggressive nature, if he gets it going and plays well, he can really shoot some low numbers.   
  
  Q.  Is the heat and humidity any factor?   
 TIGER WOODS:  I like it because it's cooler than home.  It's a little bit hotter and more humid than this in Florida, so this is nice.  Only difference is I don't get to wear shorts.   
  
  Q.  Harrington said yesterday -- yeah, you are a champion of shorts.   
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I love shorts.  I wish we could wear them.   
  
  Q.  Harrington said in this heat the ball goes farther.   
 TIGER WOODS:  Without a doubt.  That's why it's actually nice living in Florida and practicing down there because it's about the same distances.   
  
  Q.  Would you rather have the course play hard and fast like this is this year or slow or --   
 TIGER WOODS:  No, always hard and fast, always, because it puts a premium on shaping shots, shaping the golf ball to keep the ball in the fairway a lot of times, and then obviously coming into the greens it's about placement.  You can't just go up there and fire at the flag and have it plug next to the flag.  You've got to understand how to place your golf ball because if you don't you're going to pay a price for missing it in the wrong spot.   
  
  Q.  Talk about your ability to get out of trouble on a few holes.  I think it's No. 2 you took a Rescue club on the par 5, ended up blasting out of there and ended up getting a birdie out of it.  Talk about how important it is to get the ball in the fairway.   
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, that was a bad tee shot, lost it to the right there, got a good break, had a shot.  I was just trying to hit the ball with that 5-wood, basically just scream it over the green somewhere, hopefully left of the hole so I'd have an angle to chip back.  I knew there was a lot of rough back there.  I had practiced yesterday there behind the green.  I wanted to make sure I was left of the hole and long somehow.  It came out screaming at the flag, and I was hoping it would kick left, and it did, which was good, and then I had a pretty easy pitch from there.   
  
  Q.  Talk about the fans in Ohio.   
 TIGER WOODS:  They've been great all the years I've been here.  This year is no different.  They came out -- I wouldn't come out in this heat, but they did to watch golf.  Hopefully they don't tip back too many because you can lose it out here a little bit.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT