THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2007
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Thoughts on the day? 
 TIGER WOODS:  It was all right.  Not what I wanted, but I shot under par, and that's about it. 

 Q.  Kind of a seesawing round, up, down, up, down? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I got off to just a nice start there.  I was 2-under through 5.  If I could have gotten one or two more by the turn and added a few on the back nine it would have been an ideal round, but didn't turn out that way. 

 Q.  How realistic were your chances coming into the final day? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Very realistic.  If I would have posted 6- or 7-under par, I would have been right there in the mix.  The conditions and the golf course, the way it was playing, yeah, you can make some birdies.  But also if you just missed a couple of shots today, the pins were extremely difficult.  If you short-side yourself, you're not getting up-and-down today.  If you go out there, most of the pins are a little bit on the knobs, and it makes for very interesting putting. 

 Q.  Are you having problems with your shoulder? 
 TIGER WOODS:  No, all good, all good. 

 Q.  On 6, did you think about pulling out the driver and maybe reaching it in two? 
 TIGER WOODS:  The problem was I couldn't get there in two.  If the wind would have laid down a little bit, I could have gotten there in two.  But the way it was blowing, actually I would struggle carrying the bunkers, so it would have been driver, driver, and maybe, maybe, you know.  But I figured just play smart and there's plenty of holes left.  I'm already 2-under par, all I need to do is get four or five more throughout the round.  It doesn't have to be on this hole with one shot.  I can still make birdie in another way. 

 Q.  I'm sure you're disappointed, but does it make any easier knowing you have a consolation prize waiting at home for you? 
 TIGER WOODS:  It's been a week, and it's hard to believe you can miss something only being gone for a week.  But I certainly do miss them.  I'm looking forward to seeing them. 

 Q.  (Inaudible.) 
 TIGER WOODS:  It would have been nice if I would have just hit the ball a little better and just given myself a chance.  I feel like I putted beautifully all week, but I couldn't get close enough.  But when I did, I made them.  I wasn't consistent hitting the ball close enough to make birdies, and subsequently I was on the periphery of trying to win a championship. 

 Q.  In retrospect do you think the second round did you in?  You had a good first round. 
 TIGER WOODS:  Well, you know, the second round certainly put me further back, but I could have easily gotten -- I could have played better that round and gotten it back to even par and under par, and I would have been right there.  I didn't do that.  I had 17 holes to make up four, and I didn't do it. 

 Q.  Can you talk about the atmosphere here compared to other Opens?  Some have said there seems to be less in the galleries. 
 TIGER WOODS:  I think just the numbers are down.  There's not as many people, and just the nature of this golf course, it's really hard to stack in a bunch of people on this property.  So I think that -- I just think because there's not as many people. 
 I think you'll see some -- hear some noise coming the last three holes, because everything is basically right there. 

 Q.  Can you give us the clubs and distance on your birdies? 
 TIGER WOODS:  4, I hit a driver off the tee.  I hit a pitching wedge to about four feet and made that. 
 Next hole I hit 3-iron off the tee.  I hit 5-iron to about six feet and made that. 
 13, I hit a 7-iron to about seven feet and made that. 
 14, I hit a 3-wood and a 4-iron to about 60 feet and two-putted. 

 Q.  I know you don't like to play in jackets. 
 TIGER WOODS:  Well, actually it's ironic enough, I was starting -- Beemer and I were both starting to sweat.  We both shed our jackets, and basically by the third hole I played without a jacket on. 

 Q.  Are you disappointed you've lost your grip on the Claret Jug? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Well, I won't be able to put my beverage of choice in it. 

 Q.  What is that? 
 TIGER WOODS:  It's a few things. 

 Q.  (Inaudible.) 
 TIGER WOODS:  As I said earlier, I wasn't hitting the ball as close as I needed to all week.  I was putting beautifully.  If I hit the ball in birdie range, I made them.  But I just didn't hit the ball close enough.  I spent a lot of time lag putting and a lot of kick-ins from the lag putts.  I just had a good feel on the greens, but I couldn't get the ball close enough. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT