THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2007
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  That was fun, huh?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, that was certainly interesting.  1-over par for the tournament, but still not out of it.   
  
  Q.  How do you think you played today?   
 TIGER WOODS: I didn't play all that great today, no.  I hit a lot of poor shots, but hung in there.  I could have easily shot myself right out of the tournament today but I kept myself right in there.  With the weather coming in tomorrow I need to, obviously, get organized for tomorrow, because tomorrow more likely will probably be a pretty tough day.   
  
  Q.  Your tee shot on the first obviously didn't help.  Did it set a pattern for the way you played?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Not at all.  I just said basically -- yesterday I made three bogeys and shot 2-under par.  So obviously I made two on the first hole.  I've still got one yet.  I can still shoot 2-under par for the day.  It's not like you don't make bad swings in Major championships, that's part of the deal.  The whole idea was not to make anything worse than six, and I didn't do that.  I got one back the next hole.  So it was all good.   
  
  Q.  You had a smile on your face, didn't you?   
 TIGER WOODS:  It was such a poor shot because the commitment wasn't there.  If I hit a low one like I've been practicing on the range, for the first tee, I can run the ball in the right bunker.  So then all of a sudden I throw this ball up in the air a little bit, I wasn't really committed to throw the ball up in the air, and didn't back up, I hit the shot and I hit a poor shot.  So it was basically a lack of commitment on the golf shot and a poor result.   
  
  Q.  You mentioned the weather conditions tomorrow, does that mean you're worried that moves can't be made?   
 TIGER WOODS:  No, you can make moves tomorrow.  You shoot anything around par tomorrow you'll be looking pretty good.   
  
  Q.  Coming from behind, are you happy at all with the weather that's coming in?   
 TIGER WOODS:  This golf course is not playing difficult -- I'm sorry, it is playing difficult.  It's not going to be playing any easier this weekend, so you're just going to have to go out there and grind it out and try and stay away from big mistakes.  We played on Monday and obviously in a pretty good gale and wind, and it was pretty hard.  We'll see if it's anything like that on Monday.   
  
  Q.  You said you hit some bad shots today, do you do anything after a round like that to turn that around?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, we're going to go to the range and work on it a little bit.  I'm going to talk to Hank about it.  I know what I was feeling, whether or not what I was feeling and what he was seeing, hopefully they'll coincide and we can fix it.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT