THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2007
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   TIGER WOODS:  Probably the ideal start.  I was 3-under through 6.  I made a couple of mistakes there at 12 and 13, but the last three holes were 1-under par. 

 Q.  How about the conditions? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Starting out the guys before us certainly got the worse of the weather.  It was rainy, it was windy, especially when they were warming up.  But it basically died down and the wind still stayed up, but it basically wasn't raining, but it also warmed up a little more. 

 Q.  Does the course compare to '99? 
 TIGER WOODS:  No, it doesn't compare to '99.  The golf course is hard, but it's fair.  I think all the players can attest to that who played in '99.  I think it's a fantastic test. 

 Q.  Take us through 6. 
 TIGER WOODS:  6, I hit a driver off the tee.  I was slightly on the downslope.  I had 207 to the front with a 7-iron.  Just hit a low draw, the wind was down off the right.  It landed short, rolled up past the hole.  I probably had about a 18-footer right-to-left.  And it went in. 

 Q.  16? 
 TIGER WOODS:  16, I hit 2-iron there.  I just roasted a 2-iron to the front edge.  I had about a hundred-footer there.  Just made a nice shoulder turn and released it and it went in the hole. 

 Q.  How tough is that incoming stretch? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Started basically at 15, and 14 is the one you're supposed to get a shot on, especially today because the pin is kind of back left, actually pretty accessible, and I didn't do that.  So then you've got basically four really tough holes coming in.  And I played 1-under, so that was a huge bonus. 

 Q.  The European players take such pride in beating you guys in the Ryder Cup.  It's extra motivation to win for Americans.  I know you want to win every major.  But when you come here, is there extra motivation to win a British because you're doing it where you guys were beat? 
 TIGER WOODS:  No, one is a team format and one is an individual format.  It's apples and oranges. 

 Q.  Tell us about the drop you took at the 10th. 
 TIGER WOODS:  It was a weird drop.  I was as surprised as anybody.  Usually TV cables are movable, but they deemed it immovable.  They couldn't move them out of there.  So I've never seen that ruling before. 

 Q.  Did you ask for it? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I didn't ask for it.  The guy told me I could. 

 Q.  You didn't ask for it, the guy -- 
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, basically, yeah.  Because he tried to move them before I got there to help me out, to keep the pace of play going.  Then when I got there he says the TV cables are immovable. 

 Q.  (Inaudible.) 
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, as I said, I've never seen a ruling like that.  For a rules official to tell me they're immovable, I've never seen it before. 

 Q.  (Inaudible.) 
 TIGER WOODS:  I don't know what it is.  But I thought they should have been able to move those.  Every time I've played around the world they've picked those up, no problem, but they were trying to and they couldn't move them. 

 Q.  Did it help your lie at all? 
 TIGER WOODS:  No, I dropped a little bit worse, actually. 

 Q.  Will you have a different strategy tomorrow after your round today? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I don't know, it all depends on the wind.  After my three practise rounds here on Sunday, Monday and Tuesday and they had three different winds, today was slightly different than the other three days I played.  You have to adjust to the winds and play numbers and where your ball needs to be. 

 Q.  Satisfying round for you? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Very satisfying, to shoot 69 in these conditions, yeah, it feels really good. 

 Q.  Gary Player made some strong implications yesterday -- 
 TIGER WOODS:  Gary who?  What did he say? 

 Q.  That he knows of one or two players firsthand that are taking steroids. 
 TIGER WOODS:  I haven't seen anything, I haven't seen anything.  This is the first I've heard of it. 

 Q.  Without naming names. 
 TIGER WOODS:  I can't really tell you because I don't know anything. 

 Q.  Do you think drugs are a problem? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I don't know.  I think we'll find out. 

 Q.  Considering your standing, is there any part of you that feels you might have left a few strokes out there today, just for your standards? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I feel good about what I did today.  I made those two mistakes on 12 and 13.  But so far shooting under par today, you always have to feel good about that. 

 Q.  What do you make of the American kid who came over here and won the British Amateur?  Have you got to meet him this week? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Well, I think it's fantastic he came over.  Not too many persons come over and play in the British Open.  I remember Jay Sigel used to always come over and play.  But he was basically the last one to do it consistently. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT