AT&T NATIONAL
July 7, 2007
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  How do you feel going into the final round?  What do you feel about your chances?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Well, Jerry, I hit the ball well today all day.  I really hit some good shots, and I made nothing for birdie, except for the first hole.   
 I made a few par putts here and there, which was nice, to keep the momentum going.  But I hit so many good putts that looked like they were going to go in, but just didn't fall.   
  
  Q.  What's going through your mind when those good putts just are not dropping it?   
 TIGER WOODS:  It's frustrating, it really is.  There's no denying that.  When you hit good putts and you think they are looking dead center, they kind of wander left or right, it is frustrating.  Because you hit the putt on-line with the speed you want it to, and it just doesn't no go in.   
 And that's the way it goes sometimes.  You have to be patient, which I was all day.  I'm still in the ballgame.  As of right now, I'm only six back.  I may be seven or so.  Hopefully tomorrow I can get it going.   
  
  Q.  Was the lead tape on the putter today?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, well, the whole idea, like I told Stevie when we did it was to build continuity for next two tournaments, this tournament and the next, because you know the British Open never has fast greens.  So it was nice to have an adjustment like I've made for this week probably going to last until the next event.   
  
  Q.  Stuart is not running away with it, but he has a four- or five-shot lead.  He's one of your good friends; how would you feel if he won the tournament?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Hey, Stuy is a great guy.  He's always been fantastic to me and my family.  I think that the hard work I've seen and all of the hard work he putts in back home, it's starting to pay off.   
  
  Q.  Would he have bragging rights at Isleworth for a couple months?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, for a little bit.  But it's not over yet.   
  
  Q.  What did you see, if anything, of the hole-in-one?   
 TIGER WOODS:  You know, it was interesting, because Kevin and I didn't see it.  He hit it; we started walking; he was talking to his caddie.  All of a sudden, I watched him, he's trying to talk to his caddie, I'm trying to write down scores for Kevin and it goes in and he says, "What happened."  It was kind of a shocker.   
  
  Q.  Six or seven down, is that doable?   
 TIGER WOODS:  On this golf course?  Yeah.  You shoot 6-, 7-under par, and you just have one bad day out there and it's not conceivable to shoot, you know, 1- or 2-over par.   
  
  Q.  Talk about the 18th hole, you looked all around it looked like.  Were you looking at the crowd, taking in the crowd?   
 TIGER WOODS:  No.  I was about ready to throw my putter, that's what I was looking at, what part of the lake can I throw this thing in.   
 No, I was taking it in a little bit, but also reminding myself that this putt is left center, got to keep it firm.   
  
  Q.  You talk about the whole thing about this tournament coming together; from what you've seen this week, what do you think?   
 TIGER WOODS:  To have it come together in 116 days is remarkable.  It's never been done, not on this scale.  And to have the membership here, the golf course, the PGA TOUR, AT&T and my staff put it together in such a quick span of time; and to have it embraced by the people here in D.C., it's been unbelievable.   
 To have, you know, some of the troops out this week has been touching to me, because obviously that's how I grew up; and to have them out there and supporting and watching, it just touches you because I know the commitment that it takes for them to do what they do and for them to come out here and give their support to what we're trying to do, it is awfully special.   
  
  Q.  Good crowds this weekend.   
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, it's a very diverse crowd, and that's what we want.  That's what America is, and we want golf to look like America.  And, you know, if you look in this gallery, that's what you see.  That's the beauty of it.  Everyone comes out and just enjoys the sport and enjoys what we're trying to do and supporting what we're trying to do for kids.   
  
  Q.  Looking around, did you feel a sense of momentum building in your favor after the birdie at 1?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Well, I birdied 1.  I just barely missed at 2 and lipped out at 3 and lipped out at 4.   
 So realistically, I should be 3- or 4-under par through four and I was only 1.  I said, hey, I'm still in the ballgame, still a long way to go, if I make three or for four from here on out, I'll be fine, which didn't happen.   
  
  Q.  Feel like it could have been a 64 today?   
 TIGER WOODS:  It was -- yeah, I turned, I thought it was a 63 or 64 into a 69 very smoothly.  (Laughter).   
  
  Q.  The breaks didn't go for you today, but if they did would you be right there with Stuart right now?   
 TIGER WOODS:  No doubt about that.  The way I hit the golf ball today and the putts I hit, it could have been a low one today.   
  
  Q.  Do you think you're going to be right there tomorrow?   
 TIGER WOODS:  I've got to make a run myself and see what happens.  I've got to take care of my own business, and I've got to make a run and then see what happens, you know, behind me.  And I have to handle my own business first before anything can happen.   
  
  Q.  Talk about your consistency; are you pressing more tomorrow or --   
 TIGER WOODS:  I think the way I've been playing, I think it's been ideal in the sense that I've been positioning the golf ball.  I just haven't got anything going yet.   
 Yesterday was as close as it's come, and even then I missed a bunch of putts that I hit well that just didn't go in.   
 So again, I think what you do is just play it for what it is.  I know some of the pin locations you can't fire at; the majority you can for tomorrow.  We'll see.   
  
  Q.  Did the greens get any quicker?   
 TIGER WOODS:  No.  They are still very soft.  We're backing up 6-irons and 5-irons.   
  
  Q.  Other than the receptiveness of the greens, does the humidity and heat affect you in any other way?   
 TIGER WOODS:  No.  I live in Florida.  (Laughter) This is nice and cool.   
  
  Q.  Have you been able to put your finger at all on the putts, is it the greens, the speed?   
 TIGER WOODS:  I don't know.  The first day it was terrible.  It was just bad speed.  I left a lot of putts way short.  But the last two days, I've hit some nice putts, and they are running a foot past the hole.  So I mean, it's not like I've had bad speed.  They are right there just rolling just past the hole with cup speed, should fall in from any side if it does catch a lip.  They are just not falling.  They are just kind of lipping out.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT