THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
June 3, 2007
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  Not to discount your good round, but did the putt at 18 kind of sum up the week for you here?   
 TIGER WOODS:  No, that was a bad putt.  I didn't really hit too many bad putts today.  I hit a lot of good ones, which is nice.  I also made some.  I had a little streak there at 7, 8, 9, which was nice.  I felt like I hit the ball a little bit better today, which is even better.   
  
  Q.  Did you kind of throw your hands up?   
 TIGER WOODS:  No, it was a progression.  That's what it was.  It was progressing all week, which was nice.  Obviously I didn't get anything started with any kind of momentum making putts.  These greens are so perfect out here, you've got to do it, and I just didn't do it this week until today.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 TIGER WOODS:  I think consistency off the tees.  I drove it really well today.  Actually I was able to start placing the ball on the correct side of the fairways and give myself the angles I wanted into the greens, which I hadn't done.  I drove it pretty good the rest of the week, but not like I did today.   
  
  Q.  If you got to 8- or 9-under and started to play a little more aggressive, do you start to think about it?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Oh, yeah, without a doubt.  You never know.  If I birdie 14, eagle 15, at least give myself a chance, you never knew the last three holes what could happen, but obviously that didn't happen.   
  
  Q.  I know you've been asked about this, but can you talk about the excitement level of becoming a father?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, it's coming up quickly.  It's just amazing how fast it's coming along.  You figure that, oh, it'll get there eventually, and then all of a sudden it's coming up quickly.  We're very excited.  Elin is at home just chilling out, and I can't wait to get back there and hang out and start relaxing, as well.   
  
  Q.  You know it's a boy; is that correct?   
 TIGER WOODS:  I don't know anything.  You know more than I do then (laughter).   
  
  Q.  Does that affect your schedule at all?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Of course it does.  It depends on when it comes, it depends on what tournaments I will miss and what tournaments I will play.  That's all dependent on when we have our child.   
  
  Q.  Ten days away, do you feel like you're almost there for the Open?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I feel like I've progressed nicely this week, which is what I wanted to do.  Today was something I needed to have on the greens today.  I hit so many good putts.  The only bad putt I hit was on 18, and I think it was -- 18 and 5 maybe -- no, 6.  I left it short and I didn't hit it very good.  Those are the only two bad putts I hit all day.  16 good ones, that's not too bad.   
  
  Q.  Are you going to play Oakmont tomorrow?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Any other time?   
 TIGER WOODS:  That's all I need.   
  
  Q.  There's a variety of pins on the back that are -- it seems like more birdies are being made on the front.   
 TIGER WOODS:  You know, you've got to go out there and get it.  The golf course is really not that hard.  The wind picked up a little bit, but still, the greens are soft, so you can fire at everything.  You know, the balls are holding.  We have 4 and 5-irons that are spinning.  On 18 I hit a 6-iron.  6-iron is not supposed to stop within a foot, but that's just how it's going.   
  
  Q.  What do you think Jack is going to do to the course after the low scores this week?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Well, I think it's just because it was soft.  We had soft conditions and no wind all week, and we also had probably the best greens we've seen in years and didn't have furrowed bunkers like we did last year.   
  
  Q.  He'll be tempted to do something, though, right?   
 TIGER WOODS:  I'm sure he will, but it'll be slight changes like he does each and every year.  I just think that this year being no wind and soft greens, I don't care what golf course we play, guys are going to tear it apart if you get soft greens and no wind.   
  
  Q.  In terms of the baby, you're a guy who likes surprises?   
 TIGER WOODS:  No, I hate surprises.   
  
  Q.  But you didn't ask?   
 TIGER WOODS:  I asked, but I wasn't getting any answers.   
  
  Q.  Do you have names on either side?   
 TIGER WOODS:  No, I do not.  She does, I don't.  I haven't quite gotten to that point yet.   
  
  Q.  You'll pull one out of a hat?   
 TIGER WOODS:  I haven't quite done my research like I should.  As I said, we've got plenty of time.   
  
  Q.  Who named the dogs?   
 TIGER WOODS:  I did.   
  
  End of FastScripts…  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT