THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
June 2, 2007
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Are you in a mode of progress, making progress right now? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I made progress this week.  Compared to where I hit it at TPC, I've come a long way. 

 Q.  Coming towards two weeks from now? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I've still got two more weeks.  Things that I've changed and rectified since TPC I'm very proud of the way they've unfolded this week. 

 Q.  You had a couple birdies out there.  Did you focus more on the putter overnight into this morning? 
 TIGER WOODS:  You know, I've had good speed, I just haven't made anything.  That's the frustrating part is I've hit so many good putts, and they're just not going in.  I don't know what it is.  Obviously I'm not reading them right.  That's just the way I spent this week.  Some of my good shots just haven't ended up -- the best shot I hit all week was on 11, hit it right at it and it was a yard short and ended up in the water.  That's the way it goes. 

 Q.  Is this your best ball striking day since Wachovia maybe? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I didn't really hit it that well at Wachovia.  Definitely before Wachovia.  I putted great at Wachovia.  Today I really controlled my golf ball, which was nice.  I hit a bunch of good golf shots, controlled the flight, and again, had good speed, but they just weren't going in. 

 Q.  Is that a good thing to have heading into a U.S. Open layout, knowing where the ball is going versus trying to do it with one club? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Especially at Oakmont.  Pinehurst you could get away with hitting the ball poorly.  That's about getting up-and-down.  Oakmont is about ball-striking, getting up-and-down and putting and erring.  Every single facet of the game is going to be tested there. 

 Q.  This seems like the third day here in these three rounds you've had that familiar refrain of putting.  Have you had a stretch where you've thrown so many at the cup where nothing has gone in like that? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I remember at TPC I didn't putt well the first three days, and then the third day I hit -- the greens were so much slower, but I hit the putts harder and they went in. 
 Here I'm running the ball by a foot and a half, foot, and good speed.  I'm just obviously not reading them right.  Just got to do a better job of reading them. 

 Q.  What did the weather do for you or to you? 
 TIGER WOODS:  It got me a chance to eat.  I've lost so much weight since I got sick, so I got to have a few more calories in. 

 Q.  Was there anything different after coming out, better, worse? 
 TIGER WOODS:  No, just ready to go. 

 Q.  Will you spend extra time on putting next week than you normally would going into a major? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I don't feel disappointed with it because I've hit the putts where obviously I'm aimed, but I just haven't read them right.  So that's fine.  That's okay. 
 You know, if I was struggling with my stroke and obviously not hitting the putts on-line -- like the first day I didn't hit the putts on-line the second half of the round, then I would be pretty frustrated.  But I'm actually really not that disappointed with all things today.  Obviously I need to shoot lower rounds, but I think that'll come. 

 Q.  Obviously we don't know what these guys out here are going to do just yet, but what do you consider you might have to do tomorrow to make things interesting? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I'm sure I'll probably be 10 back or so, maybe more, going into tomorrow.  The golf course can be had again today.  The greens are still soft, and they've slowed up a little bit.  I foresee some of the guys shooting some lower numbers. 

 Q.  Do you know what your trophy is going to be for your tournament yet, what shape? 
 TIGER WOODS:  No, we're still working on that as a matter of fact.  We should have that ready in about another week and a half. 

 Q.  Do you have an idea? 
 TIGER WOODS:  By the Open.  I have a few ideas, but we're still figuring that out. 

 Q.  Something you can give someone in public maybe? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I'll figure it to myself. 

 Q.  When you play with Lehman or other players out here who have a lot of children, do you ever talk to them about what it's going to be like when you have your child? 
 TIGER WOODS:  No, no. 

 Q.  Do you think about that? 
 TIGER WOODS:  No, not when I'm out there playing, no.  I'm trying to put the ball and place the ball and shoot 62 and get myself right back in this ballgame. 

 Q.  But when you're practicing or something? 
 TIGER WOODS:  When I'm practicing it's different than when I am playing. 

 Q.  When you're practicing do you talk to other players who have children? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Yes. 

 Q.  Do they give you advice? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Yes, they do.  I think everyone gives you a piece of advice of how things they've gone through and things they've dealt with.  It is what it is. 

 Q.  Are you getting into the neighborhood of names at all, Eldrick, Jr.? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Elin has.  Obviously I haven't done enough homework yet, and I need to be doing that shortly. 

 Q.  Do you just defer on that call? 
 TIGER WOODS:  No, she wants my opinion.  I've just obviously been slow-playing it. 

 Q.  Do they ever tell you anything for concern, what it will be like? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Just hard work, but it's also one of the most rewarding things you'll ever have to endure in your life, too. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT