THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
June 1, 2007
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   TIGER WOODS:  I'm just not rolling the ball the way I want to.   
  
  Q.  You said on Wednesday you weren't as prepared as you would like to be.  Is that where it's showing up, the putting?   
 TIGER WOODS:  No, these greens are so perfect.  I mean, you put a putt on-line, it should be in.  I'm just not putting a putt on-line.  My speed is decent, pretty good speed, I'm just not rolling the ball on-line consistently.  I'm not hitting my lines that I'm choosing.   
  
  Q.  Where does that rank in terms of frustration when you see what the field is able to do with the same conditions?   
 TIGER WOODS:  It's frustrating because the golf course can be had out there.  It is pretty soft.  The wind did pick up a little bit this afternoon, but still, we have probably seven, eight holes with pretty much nothing out there, and you should be 3-, 4-under par on the front nine if you just play normal golf.  It seems like a lot of guys did that.   
  
  Q.  Adam shot 62.  It seems like the next step for him in his career in a sense if things stay steady would be to start hanging around at the majors.  I'm sure that wouldn't surprise you one bit?   
 TIGER WOODS:  You know, he's won two pretty good tournaments in THE PLAYERS and TOUR Championship.  He just hasn't seemed to have contended in majors.  But hey, he's still young.  He's only 27.  He's got all the talent in the world.   
  
  Q.  When you feel like you're not playing your best but you're only ten back, how do you feel about your chances?  Do you expect to do something tomorrow?   
 TIGER WOODS:  I just have to make more putts, simple as that.  I'm hitting it good enough and putting myself in position to make those putts, and I just haven't got it done.  I haven't got anything going in terms of momentum.  I've had opportunities where you could turn things around and get some momentum started, and I haven't done that.   
  
  Q.  Did you watch that LeBron last night?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, that was unbelievable.  That was impressive.  He just took over the game, said, boys, hop on my back and I'll carry you to the Promised Land.   
  
  Q.  Are you going to send him a message?   
 TIGER WOODS:  I'm not playing the sport.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel like if you can just get something started that you can, boom, maybe turn on the switch?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I mean, hey, I played with a guy yesterday, Charley, 6-over through 10 and then he's even par.  It can be done, you've just got to make some putts and get things rolling.  These greens are so perfect that if you just get it started on-line, you know it's in.   
 You look at a lot of guys up there, they're making a bunch of putts, and not just from six, seven, eight feet, they're making them from 20 feet.  I just haven't done that.   
  
  Q.  Did the wind do anything to make the greens less receptive, or is it still too humid?   
 TIGER WOODS:  It's too humid.  The greens are still pretty receptive.  Even down-wind, like on 16 today, it's 212 yards and I hit 7-iron in there and it held with no problem.  The two guys I was playing with hit 6-iron.  You get it blowing that hard down-wind and the ball is still holding, it's not going to change a whole lot.   
  
  Q.  Is this course doing a pretty good job of separating who's doing what they have to do and who's not?   
 TIGER WOODS:  It always has, always does.  This golf course, if you're not driving it well, you're going to be penalized.  Jack has always been a second-shot golf course, where if you mess up your second shots and short-side yourself, you're going to be paying the price.  These greens are so pure that if you put yourself in position enough times and just putt halfway decent, you're going to be shooting rounds in the mid to high 60s.   
  
  Q.  What are your thoughts on the 288-yard par 3, downhill or not?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Everyone has got to play it, put it that way.  If you play it in 12 for the week, you're doing all right.  You're definitely picking up some shots.   
  
  Q.  Can you imagine a 245-yard par 3 with persimmons?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, if you get them fairly fast, I can see it.  But if it rains, I would think they would more than likely move that tee up back in those days because that would be really hard to get there.  Even some of the guys might be hitting driver and not be getting there.   
  
  Q.  The best long par 3 you've ever played?  There's a lot of attention on the shorties, 12 at Augusta and 7 at Pebble.   
 TIGER WOODS:  Well, I think 4 at Augusta is one of the hardest par 3s you'll ever play, even without the change they just made.   
  
  Q.  How about the one at Riviera?   
 TIGER WOODS:  4?  4 is a great one.  I've hit driver there, actually.  It was raining, it was cold, it was howling in my face.  Hey, it's, I think, one of the cooler holes you get to play, especially with that big bunker there in front.   
  
  Q.  Huge green?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, it allows you to play.  You've got plenty of room.  Same thing on 8 at Oakmont, there's plenty of room.  4 at Augusta, there's not a lot of room.   
  
  Q.  What number are you thinking tomorrow to get back in this thing?   
 TIGER WOODS:  I've got to shoot two rounds probably in the 60s to maybe have a chance.  It might not be enough.  I've got to take care of my own business and see what happens.   
  
  Q.  Your putter has been a little hot and cold maybe over the last year.  Second half of last year was pretty good, first half was hot and cold, and this year it's been a little intermittent.  Anything you can put your finger on?   
 TIGER WOODS:  I don't know, my speed has been good, I just haven't always hit my lines.  I didn't putt well at TPC, I had a hard time with those greens.  I had a hard time reading those things.  Wachovia I putted great.  I hit everything at Wachovia.  Again, it's hit or miss.  Either it got on a hot streak or it didn't.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT