THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2007
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Well, how was your day?   
 TIGER WOODS:  1-over par.  Yeah, it was interesting today.  I didn't really hit it all that good, certainly didn't make any putts again.   
  
  Q.  What's the big issue for you on the greens?  Is it the stroke or the read or --   
 TIGER WOODS:  They're just so slow.  You know, it's hard to make yourself hit the putts that hard, especially if you putt by memory like a lot of times like I do here.  You just remember some of the putts being so fast and running out.  They just don't do that anymore.   
  
  Q.  The putt on 16, I don't think you could even believe the putt ended up three feet short.   
 TIGER WOODS:  I thought I hit it too hard.  All of a sudden it put on the brakes, and four flaps later I'm short of the hole.   
  
  Q.  No wind on the weekend.  That changes the game a bit?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Well, I still need to handle my own business first.  I need to get myself into red numbers for the tournament at day's end tomorrow and see where that stands.  I just need to play better than I am playing right now.   
  
  Q.  You know, having the lead at 4 or 5, you're not that far out of it.  I know you always have hope, but it's not that you're that far out of it.   
 TIGER WOODS:  No, I just need to shoot some good rounds.  I just can't afford to make the mistakes that I've made.  Yesterday I had three three-putts.  For 36 holes I've only made two birdies.  Not very good.   
  
  Q.  Maybe if you didn't have such a good memory you'd make more putts on these greens.   
 TIGER WOODS:  Then again, I probably wouldn't have gone to Stanford, either (laughter).   
  
  Q.  Have you got to work tonight?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I'm going right now.  As soon as I'm done with you guys I'm going straight to the range and hitting some balls and putting for a little while.   
  
  Q.  Are you aware of the cut line as you're playing?   
 TIGER WOODS:  I definitely could see it because obviously there's a board on every hole on the back nine, and it tells you exactly where you stand.  It looked like 5 might get in, might, but it wasn't 100 percent sure.  So I figured I needed to get to 4 somehow and hopefully a little bit below that would have been great.   
 I played 16 a little bit more aggressively today.  I hit driver down there.   
  
  Q.  Was there much discussion between you and Stevie on that driver, 3-wood?  It looked like there was.   
 TIGER WOODS:  Well, I was -- I was kind of 50/50 on it.  I knew that I'd have to shape the driver around the corner to keep it in the fairway.  3-wood I could hit it straight out, but it would leave me so far back.  But the rough really isn't all that penal down the right-hand side.  I decided to hit driver, and if I didn't shape it, so what.  At least I'd get close so I had a bunker or a chipping area on the left.   
  
  Q.  You're still in position where you're fighting to make a cut.  You're seldom down around there.  Is it tougher to play down there than it is at the top?   
 TIGER WOODS:  No doubt about it.  Normally if you're fighting the cut line, you don't really have your best stuff.  If you're in contention for the lead, then more than likely you're playing well.   
  
  Q.  Did you have a reaction to what Rory said yesterday about how he thinks you might be more beatable now than ever?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Well, if I remember the quote correctly, he said he likes the new Tiger.  I figure I've won 9 out of 12 and I've won three times this year, the same amount he's won in his career.  So I like the new Tiger, as well.   
  
  Q.  Is it at least any consolation that tomorrow you'll be playing early, and do you think the conditions in the morning -- it seems like today the morning rounds were more -- there was better rounds coming out of the morning than afternoon.   
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, it's either early morning or late in the evening is when the wind seems to be its calmest.  Tomorrow more than likely I'll be dew sweeping out there.  I'll have that 8:00 o'clock tee time or 8:10 and set the pins for the guys in the afternoon.   
  
  Q.  If you can put up a big number, a lot of times it seems like that can scare the other guys in the field.  Is that something that you are mindful of?   
 TIGER WOODS:  As I said, I just need to get myself into the red numbers for the tournament by day's end tomorrow.  That's where I'd like to end up.  Obviously I have to make a lot more birdies than I've made the first two days.   
  
  Q.  Is the course playing much different, or is it literally just the greens and trying to get down to 25, 26 putts?   
 TIGER WOODS:  I've just had a difficult time with the speed.  I just have left so many putts short.  Other putts I've hit well have dove either across the front edge of the hole because I didn't have enough speed.  I'm just not carrying enough speed to keep my line or even get to the hole.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT