MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2007
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  What's the difference between playing in front and having to play catch up? 

 TIGER WOODS:  Well, I'm playing the same holes as he is, so if I make the same birdies he does on the same holes it's a moot point. 

 Q.  Does it change your thinking? 

 TIGER WOODS:  No, not at all.  No, just keep plodding along.  This golf course was, you know, playing very difficult.  And you just had to keep plodding along and give yourself as many good chances as you possibly could on birdies.  Because they were very hard to come by. 

 Q.  Can you remember a tournament, Tiger, where you didn't break par?  Has that happened before? 

 TIGER WOODS:  It has happened before, yeah. 

 Q.  Were the scoring conditions a little bit better today? 

 TIGER WOODS:  They were, definitely.  The pin locations were a little bit softer.  They didn't quite -- they were probably one or two steps from where they normally are.  So they gave us a break, which was nice.  And gave us a chance to go out there and score. 

 Q.  Does it make it even more disappointing to not get a couple more -- 

 TIGER WOODS:  It still wasn't easy.  Look at the scores out there today.  I'm sure there weren't a whole lot of rounds under par today again. 

 I had a chance, but looking back over the week I basically blew this tournament with two rounds where I had bogey, bogey finishes.  That's 4-over in two holes.  The last two holes, you just can't afford to do that and win Major championships. 

 Q.  Did you think that that was the momentum swinger, that eagle? 

 TIGER WOODS:  I thought it would be great.  I made a three there and hit a perfect drive on 14 and ended up right in a divot.  So I'm thinking, "Here we go."  I hit probably the best shot I hit all week out out of that divot all week to give myself a putt at it.  I hit a good putt, it just didn't go in. 

 Q.  How hard is it to win that second Major.  What's it going to take for Zach to maybe step up and win that second one? 

 TIGER WOODS:  Well, just keep giving yourself chances.  That's the thing.  The more chances you give yourself the more likelihood you're going to end up winning tournaments.  Just like any other regular tournament event or Major.  The more times you're up there, the more you learn from the experiences, but also the more chances you gave yourself to win. 

 Q.  It seemed like it was there for the taking if you could get your game in gear. 

 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, it was a little bit frustrating in the sense that I just made a couple mistakes out there today. 

 The one on 10 I held it too much against the wind.  But at least I gave myself a chance where it was a spot where I could get up-and-down from.  I just didn't get up-and-down.  But the rest of the back nine I played pretty good. 

 Q.  The Masters generally is a bunch of birdies on the back nine, this definitely wasn't that today.  Would you like it like this or would you like to see a lot more birdies on the back nine? 

 TIGER WOODS:  Whatever it is, I don't care, as long as I come out on top.  But this golf course the way it's playing right now, as dry and as fast as it is, it was a fair test.  That's the thing.  Granted, it was extremely difficult, but at least it was fair. 

 Q.  What club did you hit into 13 on the second shot? 

 TIGER WOODS:  4. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT