MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2007
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   TIGER WOODS:  It was a tough day with the wind gusts.  You hit quality shots and just get absolutely hosed.  That's just the way it is here.   

 Hopefully you get committed to hit the proper shot and get lucky at the same time with the wind.   
  
  Q.  So the wind is the big X factor tomorrow?   

 TIGER WOODS:  We don't know.  If it blows like this, you don't know.  Putts from two and three feet you got to play a little bit of wind.  And that's trouble out here.   
  
  Q.  How frustrating was your finish today?   

 TIGER WOODS:  Very.  Very.  I made a mistake at 17 by not playing long, playing into the gallery, or playing 40, 50 yards over the green there.  It's an easy pitch coming back.   

 18, I hit a good 8-iron, but the wind switched.  Just got the wrong gust at the wrong time.  And that's the way it goes.   
  
  Q.  How aggressive can you afford to be tomorrow?   

 TIGER WOODS:  If it's like this, you got to be aggressive to your spots.  And that's sometimes nowhere near a flag.   
  
  Q.  Are you still confident a fifth green jacket is within your grasp?   

 TIGER WOODS:  I'm only four back, it's not like I'm a hundred back.  So I got a shot at it.   
  
  Q.  How would you describe the conditions out there today?   

 TIGER WOODS:  They were tough.  You had to stay patient, you had to hit quality shots, and get very lucky at the same time.   

 Because you can hit a great shot and get absolutely hosed out here.  And a lot of shots that Paul hit today that he got the wrong gusts and vice versa, and I got a couple good breaks there in the wind.   

 Number 10 was a perfect example.  He got a good gust, got to the hole.  I got the wrong one and ended up way short.  That's the way it is.  We all are struggling in it together.  We just got to get by.   
  
  Q.  How close were you on 17 to pulling off that shot from where you were?   

 TIGER WOODS:  I've probably got committed on the wrong number.  I should have got committed to 20, 30 yards past that and put the ball in the gallery; put the ball, 40, 50 yards over the green, doesn't matter.  It's an easy pitch coming back into the wind uphill.  Where I put it was, the best you could do is a 20 footer and hope you make a putt for par.   
  
  Q.  Are you looking forward to the challenge of coming back on a Sunday and this being a Major?   

 TIGER WOODS:  I'm looking forward to have an opportunity to win the championship.  As of right now I'm only four back, and not a whole lot of guys between myself and the lead.   
  
  Q.  Did you pack a red sweater or red warm clothing in other words?   

 TIGER WOODS:  No.  No.   
  
  Q.  Tiger, how odd is it in terms of strategy here where pars become so important at a place where eagles and birdies have been the norm coming down the stretch?   

 TIGER WOODS:  It's just different.  The way they set up the golf course and the way it's playing, its length, you get dry conditions, that's what's going to happen.   

 At least it hasn't been like this for four days.  We actually caught a break.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   

 TIGER WOODS:  I got to play about 20 feet of break, so it's not really an easy putt.  And I got to come up over a knob.  If I hit it too hard it breaks the other way, it breaks to the right at the end.  If you hit it too easy it breaks to the left.  So it's a pretty tough putt.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT