WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 23, 2007
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Can you talk about why it's playing so tough?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Straight in the wind.  3 is straight in the fan, and might be maybe five degrees off to the right, but that's about it and anything lost to the right is wet.  You can't carry it like you normally can and basically firing into the smallest neck of the fairway, and today's pin is all the way on the back right.  Even if you bail left, now you're coming down the hill downgrain left-to-right with wind coming off the left.  So it's not an easy hole, you've got to hit two quality shots.   
 And 18, you're driving it in probably the smallest neck we see all year, and it's left-to-right on top of that.  So you know if you put the ball in the water, you've still got to have to hit wood to try to get to the green.   
 So today, I bailed, I bailed way right, and at least I know I can make 5 at the worst from over there.   
  
  Q.  Yesterday the first words out of your mouth were, "Pathetic."  Can you just talk about how you went from yesterday to today?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Well, I described my putting when I said that.  It was pathetic.  You have 32 putts, it's just ridiculous.  That's way too many putts.   
 And I did some good work last night with Stevie and cleaned it up, where I felt like I could release the blade time and time again.  All of a sudden my ball started hugging the ground again.  It wasn't sliding all over the place like it was yesterday.   
  
  Q.  Seemed like your two biggest putts maybe were 9 and at 18, the par putts.   
 TIGER WOODS:  Without a doubt.  Any time you make big par putts, I think it's more important to make those than birdie putts.  You don't ever want to drop a shot.  The psychological difference between dropping a shot and making a birdie, I just think it's bigger to make a par putt, and I was able to make those.   
  
  Q.  Did Stevie see something?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, we worked it out together.  I told him what I was feeling and he told me what he was seeing and we just went through the list and worked it out.   
  
  Q.  How you've hit the ball in the last three tournaments, have you got rid of -- inaudible?   
 TIGER WOODS:  I think it's just trying to put it together.  This is getting close to April.  It's nice to start seeing some progress right before April.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT