ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 16, 2007
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Any positives you can take out of today's round?   
 TIGER WOODS:  I broke 80.  That's about the only thing.  I hit some of the worst, God-awful shots you've ever seen in your life today.  It was pathetic.   
  
  Q.  Can you pinpoint a reason why?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, it was my takeaway, my downswing, backswing, club selection, mind process.  You name it, I did everything wrong today.   
  
  Q.  A couple of times I saw you stretching your knee, like on the 11th green; were you having a problem with that?   
 TIGER WOODS:  No, knee's good.  Brain's not good, but knee is good.   
  
  Q.  What will you do now to get ready for tomorrow?   
 TIGER WOODS:  I'll go for a nice, hard, long run today and just run it out.   
  
  Q.  3-over through six, did you feel like you held it together on a tough day?   
 TIGER WOODS:  I struggled all day.  I didn't drive it well at all.  I hit my irons not very good, and I had really no touch on the greens today.  It was so frustrating out there.  (Sighing) I don't know.  At least I'm still in contention.  At least I still have a shot at it this weekend.  Now I've got to clean it up big time.   
  
  Q.  Could it have been worse?   
 TIGER WOODS:  Oh, yeah.  The wind, the way it was blowing, it certainly could have been a lot worse.   
  
  Q.  11 and 15 --   
 TIGER WOODS:  Well, the wind is dancing a little bit out there.  You've got cross wind on most of the shots, but they are sometimes down, sometimes into.  It depends on what gust you want to catch, the club you're going to pull.  Sometimes you've just got to wait for the gust to blow out and get the right wind that you chose the club for.   
  
  Q.  When did you get an indication it was going to be a struggle today?   
 TIGER WOODS:  I missed fairways early.  I hit a bad shot on 2, wrong club there, and I had a chance to save par on 4 and just one of the worst putts you've ever seen.  So it deteriorated from there.   
  
  Q.  Must be nice to at least sleep in your own bed for a change.   
 TIGER WOODS:  That it is.  This it is.  It's always nice because, you know, we don't have home matches.  Half the TOUR is not at home like most sports.  We are on the road quite a bit and any time you get to be at home, it's always a great feeling.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT