DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 1, 2007
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Quiet front nine at level par, just a question of being patient? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I had to be.  I didn't have a choice.  Just didn't putt well at all today.  Wasn't the pace of the greens.  I just couldn't strike the ball on line.  A little frustrating out there. 

 Q.  Greens are in perfect conditions, so it's all down to the man, isn't it? 
 TIGER WOODS:  The greens are absolutely perfect.  You just have to get them started on line, and I didn't do that very good today. 

 Q.  And the par 5s? 
 TIGER WOODS:  They are all reachable.  The ones on the back nine are sort of key to putting together a good, solid round of golf and I was able to get those. 

 Q.  You've come through several time zones; how do you feel? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I feel great.  Only takes me about a day and a half to get adjusted and I'm ready to go. 

 Q.  Looking forward to taking advantage of fresh greens tomorrow? 
 TIGER WOODS:  If I can start the ball on line.  The greens, even if you miss it late in the afternoon, they are still good.  I just need to do a little work here around the greens and get my stroke organised. 

 Q.  You were speaking yesterday about there's still room for improvement on your game, where do you see that you can improve, because it looks pretty good to us. 
 TIGER WOODS:  Everything.  It's just part of the game.  You've always got to improvement the game is fluid, it's all changing.  Last week I putted great and today I didn't putt so good.  So obviously there's always room for improvement each and every day. 

 Q.  A battling 68, are you happy with that? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Kind of, I guess.  I left a lot of opportunities out there.  I didn't putt well.  I didn't put the ball on line with my putts, and it was frustrating because the greens are really nice out there.  Just got to get some work in here. 

 Q.  Looked like you were going to start well, birdie, birdie, but a frustrating miss on the 12th; did that set you back? 
 TIGER WOODS:  That's part of how I putted today.  I didn't start the ball online.  The greens are so good, it's unfortunate that I didn't take advantage of the greens. 

 Q.  Not sure many people could have hit the green in two today on the 18th. 
 TIGER WOODS:  I try to hit a high, cut four, and if anything, just hit it long.  Put it in the grandstand over there and it came out nice, it came out soft and worked out okay. 

 Q.  The important thing is you're only three behind, you have an early start tomorrow, you could make a big move then? 
 TIGER WOODS:  I hit the ball well.  Hit a couple loose ones with my irons, but overall, I feel like I had control of the ball most of the day and I've just got to get organised on the greens. 

 Q.  You've got Ernie worried, all this talk about still going to make lots of improvement.  How are you going to do that? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Work; bust my butt.  That's how you do it. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT