BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 30, 2020
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. You're overall thoughts on the week, and did you get anything out of this week that could prove a positive going forward?
 TIGER WOODS:   Well, I didn't play as well as I wanted to the first couple days.  Today was nice.  I hit the ball really well and made only a couple putts, but today was more indicative of how I want to play in a couple weeks.
 Q. Do you have an itinerary going forward towards Winged Foot yet, and did this week and these conditions help you in any way prepare for Winged Foot?
 TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, this golf course was basically a U.S. Open, with the rough being as high as it is and fairways a little bit narrow.  Look at the scores, and I don't think that we've seen scores like this in a non-major in a very long time.  This was a great ramp-up for me for the U.S. Open.  I wish I was playing next week, but I've got a couple weeks off.
 Q. Kind of a strange season with the break and you won in October and then I think you only played seven times this year.  How do you assess this season?
 TIGER WOODS:   You know, it's been a very awkward year for all of us, with the virus and not having to play.  The majors moved around, question mark on if we're going to play the TOUR, when we're going to play the TOUR, guys testing positive.  It's been a very -- I think a difficult year and difficult season for anyone involved in the sport of golf.  But we're certainly coming out on the positive side.
 This year was certainly one that I don't think any of us will ever forget.
 Q. You had some good starts this week, had some trouble sustaining that.  Was that just a function of the golf course getting harder as the day wears on?
 TIGER WOODS:   Well, it's me missing the ball in the wrong spots.  When I missed in the correct spots I was able to advance in the correct spots, make putts, but if I missed them in bad spots, this golf course will certainly punish you.
 Q. My annual questions about the Jackson Park plan; haven't heard much about it recently, but is there still reason for optimism?
 TIGER WOODS:   Well, there's a lot of moving parts, and we're trying to make it all happen.  Certainly there's a lot of positives to the plan, and they're still trying to figure out the politics moving forward.  Yeah, there's a lot of people who are involved and want to make it happen, but it's still a difficult time.
 Q. Is it needed now more than ever because of the potential to help minorities and summer jobs and caddying --
 TIGER WOODS:   Absolutely.  The whole idea was to bring the community together and have something that the community would be very proud of.  Obviously we're trying to make that happen as fast as we can.
 Q. When you look back to the four times you've played since the return, what do you think has kept you from playing like you'd want to or scoring like you'd want to?
 TIGER WOODS:   Just missing the ball in the wrong spots here and there.  I certainly haven't putted as well as I would have liked, and with the scores being as low as they have been, I just haven't been able to shoot the low scores like I needed to.
 Q. How have you felt?
 TIGER WOODS:   Felt?
 Q. Body-wise, physical-wise.
 TIGER WOODS:   It aches every day.
 Q. Has it hurt you at all, just your back or your health in general?
 TIGER WOODS:   Well, my back is what it is.  It's always going to ache and it's always going to be stiff.  That's just -- when you have a fusion, that's just part of the deal.  I'll have my good days, and as I've told you guys before, I'll have my good days and bad days.
 Q. What are going to be your areas of focus over the next two weeks as you prep for Winged Foot?
 TIGER WOODS:   I would say trying to clean up my rounds and trying to miss the golf ball in the correct spots.  As I said, I haven't done that.  It was nice playing a practice round and knowing what I have to deal with.  I won't be able to play on rye until I get to the U.S. Open, so at least -- these last two weeks were very nice to play on rye before I head back home and practice on Bermuda.
 Q. Which course was harder, your practice round at Winged Foot or this?
 TIGER WOODS:   Winged Foot was soft that day.  This golf course dried out and got very quick.  But they could have held the U.S. Open when we played.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT