BUICK INVITATIONAL
January 26, 2007
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  (Inaudible.) 
 TIGER WOODS:  Of course.  It kept running.  I was very lucky it didn't go in the water.  As hot as I hit that golf ball coming out of there, anywhere left of it -- 

 Q.  (Inaudible.) 
 TIGER WOODS:  After missing the water, 59 yards, I like my chances of making birdie there and I didn't even hit the green.  Not good at all. 
 I didn't do any damage, pars today, so all in all I need to do a little bit of work on the range and a little about the of work on the greens and I should be all right tomorrow. 

 Q.  Not doing any damage -- 
 TIGER WOODS:  Looking at the scores, I'm sure there were not a whole lot of rounds in the 60s on the South Course today.  The greens are very interesting out there.  Don't leave yourself short putts around here. 

 Q.  Was there any advantage playing the North or South with the weather changes? 
 TIGER WOODS:  The way it was playing early, we definitely got the break playing the South Course today.  Then the wind switched a little bit in the middle of the round and the guys on the North Course had all of the par 5s downwind and downwind it changed again, so all of the par 5s on the North Course back into the wind.  Overall the guys playing the North Course yesterday certainly had an advantage. 

 Q.  Like playing Pebble this week? 
 TIGER WOODS:  We were talking about that today.  You just hope the putts go in.  You have to hope, good putts don't always good in on these things.  They are wiggling all over the place. 

 Q.  (Inaudible.) 
 TIGER WOODS:  He's playing well.  He played well yesterday and obviously consistent today, so we'll see what happens on the weekend.  There's a bunch of guys in with a chance and South Course, way it's playing, it's going to be a very stern test for all of us. 

 Q.  After playing a couple of rounds, is it like getting back on a horse? 
 TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, it felt good.  More comfortable out there.  Comfortable playing shots, shaping them, hitting the ball correct distances, thinking my way around the golf course again.  So little things come back pretty quickly. 

 Q.  The shot that went over the green -- 
 TIGER WOODS:  I hit 2-iron, that's why I started walking past it, I knew it was going to land past the hole.  I didn't think it was going to go over the hole.  I was trying to land it short of the hole and it went over the back.  I hit 9-iron. 

 Q.  (Inaudible.) 
TIGER WOODS:  They have gotten -- 

 Q.  (Inaudible.) 
 TIGER WOODS:  You look at a lot of our putts from inside ten feet, they are iffy.  First year they had them after the resign they were absolutely incredible.  You were making 20-, 30-, 40-footers, a bunch of guys making a bunch of putts out here.  After that, a slow decline after that. 
 The poa is coming in, but it's not in, you have the bent and the poa sticks up a little bit and hence the ball doesn't run smoothly. 

 Q.  Are we anywhere close to having an amateur win out here or is that not a realistic expectation? 
 TIGER WOODS:  It could happen.  It could happen.  Phil did it.  Scotty did it.  It could be done.  You just need a hot week at the right time. 
 The way all these young kids coming out here are playing, they all hit the ball long.  They can all putt pretty well.  It's just a matter of keeping the ball in play and controlling their distances.  Generally amateur golf versus professional golf, distance control is probably the main issue. 

 Q.  If you were doing it say in L.A. 13 years ago, 14 years ago, whatever, now it's -- 
 TIGER WOODS:  If they are shooting low rounds, no reason why they can't do it on a professional golf course.  If they can do in amateur and junior tournaments, though reason why they can't do it out here. 
 Granted, course conditions may be more difficult but the game can't change.  It's still about putting the ball in play, controlling your distances and making putts.  I think that's the thing, these kids if they get that mind-set, they can go ahead and do it. 

 Q.  Are you scared when you -- 
 TIGER WOODS:  I was nervous, I'll never forget, my first tee shot, I was fine until I teed the ball up and I had a hard time pegging it. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT