TARGET WORLD CHALLENGE
December 17, 2006
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, starting out the day I was one back  with Chris, and I knew that given the conditions as soft as they were today and  really no wind out there, I knew I had to make some birdies out there. I figured those two guys would maybe make  some birdies back there. I guess I knew  if I had 5- or 6-under par by the end of the day I'd have a pretty good chance  of winning the golf tournament, and I was fortunate enough to shoot 66 today.   
  
  Q.  I hope it isn't too early to flip the calendar, but you're halfway to  another Grand Slam. What are your  thoughts about that and is that realistic?  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, you've got to keep plugging along and  make sure you peak at the right times. Obviously  Augusta is obviously a long way away but  still in the back of all of our minds, and the whole idea is to play well  leading up to the tournament and hopefully have your game just peak at the  right time that particular week. Hopefully  I'll do the same thing at Oakmont.  
  
  Q.  How important was it to finish the year with a win, and does something  like this carry over into the next couple of events next year?  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, it was a real nice positive because the  last two 72-hole stroke play events I finished second, and I didn't want to  have it a third straight time. Even  though I got the Grand Slam, it was only two days. But to play four rounds against a quality  field like this and come out on top, it always gives you a shot of confidence  going into next year.  
  
  Q.  Can you talk about when you have -- I believe you go up by two shots  after Ogilvy and DiMarco finish three holes.  Do you sort of thrive off that knowing that you've built that lead so  early, and does it feel like --  
 TIGER WOODS: Before you even go on, I didn't know I had a  lead until we got to the 9th hole because there's no leaderboards on the front  nine. So when I got to 9, I looked at  it, and I had at the time a two-shot lead, and if I made the putt on 9 I knew I  had have a three-shot lead. I told  Stevie, let's get a three-shot lead going into this back nine, and I made the  putt.  
  
  Q.  You saw it at the turn because there's no boards, just one on 4?  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I only saw that one on 9, otherwise I  didn't see any leaderboards on the front nine.  I guess you're right, there is one on 4 but I didn't see it. I had just made bogey so I wasn't real  happy. My head was down.  
  
  Q.  You opened with a win in your first tournament of the year and closed it  with a win in the last tournament, and obviously you talked about what a  traumatic year this was. Can you just  sort of review it quickly? Start with  first and end at first.   
 TIGER WOODS: Well, the bookends, it's always nice to get  Ws for bookends. But the middle part for  me, my year golf-wise was pretty good this year. Overall I'm very pleased with the progress  I've made working with Hank, and things started solidifying this summer.   
 I mean, it was nice to actually put  a lot of the pieces together and just go out there and play. Obviously to win as many tournaments as I did  from summer until now was an awful lot of fun.  
  
  Q.  When you come in here every day and have kind of a laundry list of  things you weren't happy with, whether it was speed of putts or iron play, yet  you win by four strokes, you kind of win going away, what does that say about  the state of your game and where you are in relation to the rest of the guys on  Tour?  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I was just being honest. You asked me how did I do out there, and I  was just being honest. I just told you  the things that I thought I needed to clean up in order to win the golf  tournament, and today I did that. Today  I hit the ball a lot better and I made some putts.   
 But prior to that it was one or the  other. I drove it great, hit my irons  not so good and putted not so good. I  mean, it was just one of the three was working.   
 I put most of the pieces together  today, and it was fun to go out there and obviously make birdies early and put  a lot of the heat on the guys behind me.   
  
  Q.  Drawing comparisons between this and 2000, not based on mechanics but  purely results, where would you see the biggest difference? Would you just see it as one extra major or  margin of victory, things like that?  
 TIGER WOODS: I think if you compare the two years, I think  this year would have to be better because of obviously things I've been dealing  with off the golf course. 2000 I didn't  have to deal with that.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, I mean, I won my first two events of  the year. I got off to a quick start of  the year. Hey, life is full of mysteries  and you've got to deal with things as they come. Who's to know that if Dad didn't struggle and  end up passing that I wouldn't have played that well in the summer; who knows.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)  
 TIGER WOODS: Understanding of mechanics now and things are  starting to solidify. This summer was  huge for that. Basically we went back to  -- Hank and I went back to what I was working on at the beginning of the year  after I took the break at the Western after that first round where I did not  play well. I said, you know what, let's  forget everything that's happened. Let's  work on what we did at the beginning of the year that won the first two events  and let's get everything organized, and we did that in one afternoon, and all  of a sudden it turned around, and boom.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)  
 TIGER WOODS: Without a doubt, there's no comparison. No other practice session was more important  than that one. I had played three  consecutive poor rounds, three in the U.S. Open and one at the Western.  
  
  Q.  How much can we expect you to play this coming season? Can we expect to see you in the  Mercedes? Can we expect to see you in  all those events that are playoff events and leading up to it?  
 TIGER WOODS: Jerry, I'm going to play every event next  year (laughter). I'm not taking any  weeks off (laughter).   
 You know me, I'm going to sit back  here in the next week and start playing out my entire schedule for next  year. I wanted to get this tournament  over and done with and get on vacation and enjoy skiing, having a great time,  and then I'll get the entire itinerary for next year and start planning the  schedule, what I need to do and when I need to do it.  
  
  Q.  You described the 16th hole. How  important was that? And can you describe  your second and third shots?   
 TIGER WOODS: What hole?   
  
  Q.  16.   
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, 16.  It was not a very good 5-wood second shot. I kind of lost it -- I was trying to hit just  a little smoothie up there and I hit just a nice little cut and I over-cut it  and ended up embedded on the bank, took the two drops and got a decent lie but  the stance was terrible, but it was good enough -- the lie was good enough  where I felt comfortable I could get the ball over the bunker and keep it on  the green. I was just trying to build  some kind of stance where I could basically make contact, and I was able to do  that and then make the putt. It was nice  to do that because the guys were back out in the fairway watching.   
 That could have easily -- that ball  goes in the hazard, I could have easily made bogey there just like I did  yesterday.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, it was about an inch closer. Just wanted to make sure to clarify.  
  
  Q.  I didn't hear the ceremonies. I  assume just as in the previous two wins, you donated the money to the  Foundation?  
 TIGER WOODS: Uh-huh.  
  
  Q.  Obviously you want to win the tournament, you were talking about your  competitive nature. But I assume being  able to win and give the money is almost as gratifying, if not more so?  
 TIGER WOODS: You know it's going to help kids, and that's  the beauty of it, is that this entire tournament, all the people that came out  and supported it and all of you guys who came out and are basically covering  this event enhance what we're trying to do to help kids. The learning center is one small  steppingstone toward what we're trying to do in building the overall  Foundation, trying to grow it globally.   
 This was a step in the right  direction for that.   
  
  Q.  We all know how much you like racking up all the Ws, how much you like  being in contention on the last day. But  so much rides on this week for the Foundation and because you're the tournament  host, does it feel different for you being out there in the zone?  
 TIGER WOODS: Once you're on the golf course, you're out  there playing. That's the beauty of  it. Obviously I've got a lot of  responsibilities off the golf course this entire week, but once you get inside  the ropes, it's time to mix it up with another 15 boys out there, see what  we've got. That to me is fun, and  especially today when you've got the U.S. Open champion there and you've got  Chris DiMarco who's played so well the last few years, and you knew it was  going to be a battle. That gets your  juices running.   
  
  Q.  Talking about next year, do juices start to flow when you think about  the new points structure and how that's going to change the mindset out there?  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, first of all, I need to understand the  points structure. I don't. I don't know it yet. I don't know what each tournament is worth,  if a major is worth more or less or the same, I don't know. I really don't know. We'll see what happens.   
 Once I figure it out, then I'll let  you know. It's like the World Ranking  system, isn't it? Or QB passer rating.  
  
  Q.  Do you like the concept of it? Not  the fact that it ends earlier, but do you like the concept of it?  
 TIGER WOODS: It's interesting, it really is. It's so different that we've never  experienced anything like this before. It's  weird in the sense that the points system determines the Top 30 but the Money  List determines whether you keep your card or not. I don't know, it'll be very interesting to  see the two dynamics there.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)  
 TIGER WOODS: That's it?  Just dump it off to the running back and let him do all the work. Perfect.   
  
  Q.  As you look back on this golf year, is there one shot more than any  other which stands out as the most satisfying?  And is there one shot that if you could take it back and have a second  crack at it, you would?  
 TIGER WOODS: How about all 36 holes at the U.S. Open. They were pretty dreadful. What did I finish, 50-over par or something? It wasn't very good there.   
 As far as -- I wish I could have  putted better at The Masters this year. I  didn't putt well the entire week and especially didn't putt well on  Sunday. I was struggling with speed the  entire week, and then on Sunday it just became even worse. I hit the ball great the entire week. I put myself in position to make a bunch of  putts, and I didn't do it at all.   
  
  Q.  And if there was one shot you had to pick that was your most satisfying  of the season?  
 TIGER WOODS: Most satisfying? Well, that's a great question. I know there was a series of shots, but they  weren't in competition. It was a  practice session I had at the Western when I hit balls about three hours out  there. I had about an hour where I  really hit it -- that was fun. I really  hit it good. I had every shape shot,  height, spin, whatever you wanted, I had it for about an hour. That's what you're always looking for. Then I just built upon that for the rest of  the year.   
  
  Q.  In terms of your will to win, you've described yourself as having a  football player's mentality. Can you  elaborate on that a little bit?  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I don't think you really lay up on par  5s on the football field, do you? You'd  get run over. Obviously you've got to  bring everything you've got or else you get hurt.   
 In our sport it's different. Some of the guys don't bring it every day,  and I just don't understand that. It's  not that hard to concentrate for five hours.  Like I said, you've got 19 other hours to recover, which is fine.   
 That's why I bring it each and every  day. It's not that hard to focus for  five hours, step up and bring everything you've got, and that's the way I've  always played. I can't play any other  way because I can't deal with the fact that if I go home at night and look at  myself in the mirror that I didn't try as hard as I could have. I just couldn't live with that.   
  
  Q.  What did it mean to you to have some of the kids that you've helped at  the learning center now come out today?  
 TIGER WOODS: They were all out there, I could seem them  out there and recognized most of the faces out there and I could hear them  hooting and hollering, which was fun. That's  what it's all about. Some of these kids  were going down the wrong path and now these kids have turned it around and now  they're going off to college, which is something they never thought about doing  before.   
 It's nice to make a positive impact  like that on someone's life, and hopefully we can do it on a much grander scale  than just here in Southern California.  
  
  Q.  In the looking ahead category, Ernie won the South African Open  today. He vanished most of the year  except for the Open. What did you see  out of him this year, and what are your expectations of him going forward  concerning the past couple years he's had?  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, Ernie just basically struggles with his  knee, getting confidence to go ahead and swing aggressively onto it. Hey, when I came back after my knee surgery  in 2002, I just dealt with the pain and just played through it. But there is some -- you have to suck it up  sometimes and say this is really going to hurt and hit a shot. His knee surgery was a lot more extensive  than mine. He had to deal with a lot  more scar tissue and things than I ever had to deal with. So for him to try and battle through all that  and as well as get his game back because he took so much time off, it's not  easy to do.  
 There are repercussions that you  don't really realize until you have to hit a shot from awkward lies, and it's  like, well, this is where it really grabs me.  I've got to hit it anyways.  Sometimes it's not too bad, then other times it kills you, then other  times it's not too bad. It takes a  little bit of time.   
  
  Q.  Just going back to your previous answer about hopefully the scale of the  learning center will be much bigger in Southern California, could you say where you hope it  will be in say five years' time?  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, in five years' time hopefully we'll  have at least another one built and our Start Something program will already be  overseas and we'll be expanding that way.  
  
  Q.  Just going back to your answer before that about concentrating for five  hours, do you think one of the reasons why other players can't is that they  play too much? Some of them played 31,  32 events this year.   
 TIGER WOODS: I don't know, I've never done it before.   
  
   
  End  of FastScripts…  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT