TARGET WORLD CHALLENGE
December 12, 2006
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
 TIGER WOODS: Okay.  Just overall, thank you. It's  great being back here in southern California, to be back where I was born and  raised.   
 About the Player of the Year Award,  that's always an honour to get the respect of your peers, and this year, has  been an interesting one to say the least on the golf course as well as off.   
 But this week, for this tournament  here, we're excited to have it back here at Sherwood. The things with Target and Countrywide, the  thing we have done with our Learning Center, we have excited our own  expectations with our Learning Center.  We are going to try to get about 5,000 kids coming through there in year  one. We're going to have about 8,000  this year. Our Start Something Program  we have done in conjunction with Target now has 4.7 million kids in the program  around the country, so we are reaching out doing a lot of great things. With that being said, you guys can ask away.   
  
  Q.  You mentioned the year that you've had both on and off the golf course,  we know about your dad, have you been surprised, were you surprised that you  would be able to perform at such a high level after your dad's death, and do you  think that it made you stronger?   
 TIGER WOODS: As far as performing afterwards, I knew I had  to go through, like anyone, the grieving process, and I had never done anything  like that before. Everyone is different  how long it takes you to come out of it.  
 The hard part is I kept answering  after I came back, the hardest thing for me to do with as play golf. Usually people go to work to get away from a  loss like that. That's dad, he  introduced me to the game of golf. He  taught me a lot of life lessons on the golf course. So when I came back and started working on my  fundamentals, who do you think I learned my fundamentals from? I learned them from my dad.  
 I played as bad as I did at the U.S.  Open, and to get it going after that, it was nice, because I was playing well  early in the year and then in the springtime, got a little bit more; I went  back to the same things I was working on at the beginning of the year and they  started clicking in and I won a few tournaments.   
  
  Q.  (Better than you were playing in 2000?)   
 TIGER WOODS: No doubt about that. As far as hitting the ball, but certainly I  didn't putt as well in 2000. I had  virtually almost no 3-putts for the year, this year was a little sporadic  putting-wise, I'd go through streaks. I  had two really good ball-striking weeks at the British Open and then at AMEX  where I really hit it good. That was  fun. (Smiling).  
  
  Q.  This will be your first holiday season without your dad, do you think  much about that, and does it go through your mind much?   
 TIGER WOODS: You know, yes and no, because the holiday  season the last couple years haven't really been a whole lot of fun especially  this past one. I didn't even know it was  even Christmas Day, you know, it was one of those kind of things. All the days just blended together because  dad was really struggling at the time.   
 I don't remember, I didn't do  anything for my birthday, I didn't even know it was my birthday. I was up three, four, five days in a row just  non-stop trying to be with dad. I was  here, I just didn't do anything, just hung around him as much as I possibly  could, so everything kind of blended together.   
 So I guess looking back on it, I  guess the last couple of years have not been a whole lot of fun. Before that, yeah, dad always looked forward  to Christmas Day, always had the Lakers on in the afternoon game. We were huge Lakers fans, just sit back and  watch the Lakers play and hopefully win.   
  
  Q.  Looking at your swing ten years ago to today, it's very hard to see a big  change, you look at something, what do you see in your swing that's changed  over the years?   
 TIGER WOODS: Quite a bit actually. Probably the biggest difference is the way I  release the club is so different from the way I used to, ten years ago working  with Butch and now working with Hank. Their  philosophies on how the club is released are two totally different things. That's probably the biggest difference. That, and I've put on a little bit of weight  in the last ten years.   
  
  Q.  Has it helped?   
 TIGER WOODS: No doubt about it, yes, I have more strength  out of the rough and I have shots I never could have hit before. I don't have the speed like I used to but I  certainly have a lot more power, so I guess it's a trade-off.   
  
  Q.  (Is all of the weight gain from the gym?)   
 TIGER WOODS: I think that's from certain restaurants of  choice. (Laughter).  
  
  Q.  Do you think it's going to be more difficult for you to concentrate on  the course because of all the other things getting bigger and better?   
 TIGER WOODS: No, actually, it's probably better. I certainly have a lot more tranquility in my  life now, now with the Foundation doing so well, obviously progressing of my  game, development of my game, my marriage to Elin. A lot of different things have happened. I certainly have a lot more tranquility in my  life than ever before, a lot more understanding of how to manage my life. It wasn't always easy starting out. There's no class at Stanford or anywhere else  that can prepare you for something like this.  Going through the bumps and then the curves and finally understanding  how to do it and manage it certainly makes things a lot easier.   
  
  Q.  For Phil the U.S. Open, one shot away and the whole bit, how tough is  that from a player's perspective to rebound from a mental standpoint?   
 TIGER WOODS: It is what it is. We all make a mistake, we all do. You have to apply it, learn it, and get back  on the horse.   
 That's one of the great things about  our game is, is it a season; yes and no.  It's not like a season where it's ultimate goal is the Super Bowl or NBA  championship down the road where every tournament, every game means so  much. Here it's different. You finish the week, forget, it off you go to  the next week.   
 So, you know, plus you still had  another major championship to play, two more majors to play. He dedicated himself to those. He just didn't play as well.   
  
  Q.  So from your perspective is it taking him longer to get over it than  anyone else?   
 TIGER WOODS: I think it's just getting back if the hunt,  you get back in the hunt, you forget all those things. You look back, I don't think he really put  himself in contention Sunday afternoon, or he just played a good, solid round  he could win the golf tournament but he had some strokes to make up. You put yourself in contention, you forget  all those things and you just come right back out and play.  
  
  Q.  Do you think you have widened gap between yourself and your peer group,  and do you think that would be something that would interest you?   
 TIGER WOODS: Not necessarily, no. My whole deal is just to try to get better  and to keep pushing myself to get better each and every year. And along the way, I'll win tournaments along  the way; if I'm able to continue to improve.   
  
  Q.  Two things. You've re-signed with  Nike?   
 TIGER WOODS: Yes.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about how that relationship has evolved from '96 to the  first renewal to now this one?   
 TIGER WOODS: It's very interesting, because we were not  really in the golf business. Now we are  a leader in the golf industry. We did  not have any hard goods at all and now we have clubs and balls. That's totally changed. Going from basically a person who is just  happy to be a part of the Nike company, to now helping out as much as I  possibly can.   
  
  Q.  Are you going to put that thing in your bag next year?  
 TIGER WOODS: Sumo or Sumo2?   
  
  Q.  The one that makes the weird noise.   
 TIGER WOODS: Like K.J. is playing? I've tried it and I do hit it further but  launching it a little too high. I don't  quite penetrate enough, the ones they have given me to try. That's what this off-season is for to try to  dial it in.  
  
  Q.  Just curious as you go into next year, what's the weakest part of your  game do you think?   
 TIGER WOODS: Probably driving. Probably my short game is not as consistent  as I would like it to be. And certainly  my putting is not as consistent as I would like it to be.  
  
  Q.  Any decisions yet or even leanings towards Mercedes and in early  January? I know you don't have to commit  until the week before.   
 TIGER WOODS: I haven't really looked forward to that. I'm just looking forward to actually playing  this event and then going skiing and just getting away and actually having some  time off and then basically evaluate.   
  
  Q.  Course design, I'm curious, your days are usually pretty full anyhow,  your schedule is pretty full. You have  been good with time management. When you  start to get into that and you're still playing, how much of a challenge is it  going to be to add that in and keep up the quality of play and have the quality  of that job, as well?  
 TIGER WOODS: People think, yeah, you've got to design nine  or ten courses a year. I'm only entering  one right now. You take it one at a  time, I'll do this one and see how it goes.  And then if it's something I can feel I can handle more, then we'll do  more. If I can't, if I only can do one,  then one is it. But the main thing is I  do it with the same passion, same intensity as I do anything else. That's just kind of how I am. But if I can't give it my all, there's really  no sense in doing it.   
  
  Q.  You talk about getting better and better, and I know periodically you  work on your swing, do you foresee any changes in the foreseeable future as far  as your swing is concerned?   
 TIGER WOODS: There's always going to be changes. The game of golf is fluid. Things are always breaking down in this  game. We all know from playing it,  that's just the way it is, and you've just got to fine tune it, but I'm not  doing any reconstruction of my golf swing and doing all of the major  stuff. Now it's just refinement. Just a matter of staying on top of it.  
  
  Q.  In '97 when you showed up at the Nissan, your first full year on the  Tour, you were so much of a novelty. E!  Channel was there, and non-Golf Channels, girls screaming at you wanting to  know about your private life. Ten years  later has that novelty gone? In other  words can you relax a little bit more you?  Were talking about being able to settle yourself but I'm just wondering,  when you walk down the street or you go someplace, is it still as bad, or do  people respect your privacy a little more?  
 TIGER WOODS: They respect the privacy a lot more. I guess that's just getting to know me over  the last ten years. You know, I was new  to golf and people are curious and they wanted to know everything about  me. Well, I think pretty much everything  has been written about me. (Laughter).  
 So I guess over time, you do get a  better connection with people, and I think that's certainly has happened over  the last ten years.   
  
  Q.  You talked about it a little bit but can you talk about your new golf  course and why you chose to have it in Dubai?   
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I think it's all timing. I wanted to play around the world and play on  every continent before I got into the golf course design business. I was able to do that, and then I also wanted  to be -- partner up with companies and people who have the same vision as I do  for a project. I was lucky enough to  have that happen in Dubai.  The people there have been fantastic to work with, and I think it's  going to be a lot of fun for -- it has been a lot of fun, but it's going to be  even more fun once we start moving dirt.   
  
  Q.  You mentioned your skiing; are you a Black Diamond skier these  days? Black Diamond, the hardest?   
 TIGER WOODS: It's not the hardest.   
  
  Q.  Double Black?   
 TIGER WOODS: Mm-hmm.  (Laughter).  
  
  Q.  At the PGA this year, we were talking to Chris DiMarco about who is  going to -- one of these young guys is going to have to stand up to Tiger, he  says, "I can't do it, I've got three kids and a family." You were talking about the time commitments  that you have. When you do look forward  to having a family, do you think the commitment to golf and everything you do  to keep on top, you're going to be able to do the same types of things when  that happens?  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I think that's the challenge. Your life has been changed pretty  dramatically. I have one advantage, I  don't sleep much. I guess that's one  thing that's going for me.   
 But as far as understanding what to  do, I think that's just, hopefully when that day comes, I'll be able to perform  at a high level, but also more importantly, you know, be a great father.   
  
  Q. Also, talking about the young guys, are you  surprised there has not been more of a challenge to you from the 20s  golfers? You're usually the youngest guy  on the Ryder Cup Team, and especially Americans have not been able to make that  sustained challenge; are you surprised by that?   
 TIGER WOODS: Not at all.  It's hard. You know, people  realise how deep our Tour is now. It's  not the U.S. Tour. We have much more of  a collection from people all over the world, and when you do that, you don't  have the same playing opportunities to develop.  How hard is it to get on Tour now?  Once you are there, because our fields are so deep, how often can you  get into contention to learn how to win?  You can fail, I can pick myself backup, but I get back into contention  again, but with the field being deeper, how much harder is that now? With that being said, it's not a surprise.  
  
  Q.  On the Learning Center, is there an anecdote you can share when you've  met the kid that would illustrate the obvious pride that you've got in it?   
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I guess probably you'd have to see the  letters that we get from the kids that have experienced what we have been lucky  enough to create and the atmosphere that we have. If you go there and watch the atmosphere, see  the kids feel safe, one, and excited about learning and going to class. We all know when went to class -- some of you  guys -- it wasn't always as exciting to go to class.   
 These kids are all fired up about  learning and because we are presenting them with information that can pertain  to their life outside of just going to class, and how do I learn, how do I  develop, how do I become a leader. On  top of that, once I learn this subject matter, how do I, you know, how do I  apply it to a working environment? Well,  we have mentors that take them through the whole process. And they think that just because you hit a  golf ball, that's the only way you can get into the game of golf, there's a lot  of different avenues. When they start  opening up their eyes, when we start opening up their eyes to other Avenues,  other opportunities for them to make a lot out of themselves, they just lighten  up.   
  
  Q.  Have you read them all?  
 TIGER WOODS: I can't read them all, no. But certainly I look at them and I read quite  a few.  
  
  Q.  Can you talk about everything that you've done off the course, designing  courses, your charity foundations, do you feel any part of your thought process  in doing all of those things is for life after golf and do you feel like you're  pretty set for these new endeavors that you have whenever you retire from golf?  
 TIGER WOODS: I'm always one that as everyone knows, is  always pushing. I try to find other  avenues to challenge myself, and I enjoy that.  You know, as I've progressed throughout my career, that's what I've done  on and off the golf course. I enjoy I  guess the challenge of life every day and trying to do something  different. I guess one of the reasons  why, you know, I'm now in the golf course design business, all of the sports  and activities I've taken up and the hobbies I've taken up since I've been on  Tour, I enjoy pushing myself.   
  
  Q.  When you look back on a year like this or a year like last year or  whatever, can you share the thought process on how you go about doing  that? You just look at wins and losses,  you look at certain shots or pivotal shots?  How do you go about doing that?   
 TIGER WOODS: Well, am I a better golfer right now than I  was at the beginning of the year? The  answer is yes, a successful year, because if I did that for the rest of my  career, great career. Understanding how  to play the game, how to fix my game, how to hit certain shots, how to manage  my game, understanding of the game of golf, you know, each and every year.   
  
  Q.  I see where you're coming from. Is  there one moment where you can say, this is an example of how I learned how to  fix it myself or how to manage my game, etc.  Can you do that with a tournament, specific shot?   
 TIGER WOODS: Well, I mean, look at how I played at the  Deutsche Bank. I mean, I did not hit it  well at all the first three days and I was somehow hanging around. Well, I turned it around that night just by  working on it in the hotel room. What  did I shoot, 64, 63 or something the last day.  
  
  Q.  What did you do in the hotel room?   
 TIGER WOODS: Just try to get -- I was not getting back far  enough. The loft on my club wasn't  right. Time and time go ahead, I  couldn't flight the golf ball properly. The  spin was terrible. I was just getting  around by putting well and my short game was great. Well, that's not going to beat Vijay on  Sunday. I had to find a different  way. I had to piece it together, and I  pieced it together.   
  
  Q.  Taking full swings in the room?  
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Just wondered, what kind of advice do you give kids in your Learning Center, how to persevere in such a  difficult game, what kind of common strategies do you give them?   
 TIGER WOODS: That's a hard question. At the Learning Center, one, we have the Start Something  program in which they learn how to lead, the steps it takes how to do  that. As far as you know, the anecdotes  that I may give them, that's hard to do.  You've got to actually, you know, you can't just be there just on a one  day and give them one little bit. You've  got to keep coming in there multiple times, and that's what I try and do, just  keep seeing the same kids over and over again and checking up on how they are  doing and try and give them, if they have any type of question about what road  should I take, hopefully I can help out in some way.   
  
  Q.  What about with some of the Amateurs you play with in Pro-Ams, are there  common faults you see or common tips you give that can benefit a great number  of people? Looking for some advice here.   
 TIGER WOODS: When it comes to amateurs, practice. You know, my father always used to tell me,  you get out of it what you put into it. If  you work hard, you're going to get results.  But if you don't put any effort, you didn't put any work into it, you  don't bust your butt, you won't get any results; and more importantly, you  don't deserve any.  
 For the amateurs out there, there  aren't any. It's not there in the  dirt. You've got to go find it.  
  
  Q.  Coming up on 31, got any plans?   
 TIGER WOODS: As far as?  
  
  Q.  As far as letting your clubs fly.   
 TIGER WOODS: I'm competitive and unfortunately sometimes,  you know, I let my anger get in the way.  It comes out. There's better ways  at handling your anger. Sometimes I  don't always do that properly, there's no doubt about that. I try and will always continue to try because  I am very competitive and I like to beat people.   
  
  Q.  Can you think of something that your father did on the golf course that  really cracked you up?  
 TIGER WOODS: He did a lot of different things, but I tell  you what, he always -- it was interesting thing about dad is every time he  played, he always wanted to teach a lesson.  That's just how he was. So every  time we played, every weekend, there was always a lesson to be learned, and he  always used to just keep harping on me that; learn something from this  round. It doesn't always have to apply  to golf. Each and every round, the  things you deal with in golf can be life experiences on a smaller scale; it's a  microcosm. That's something dad was  always harping on me about, to try to get an understanding of that.   
 Now that I'm a little bit older now  and I play a lot of rounds of golf. It's  amazing how many things I still learn just by going out and playing nine holes  by myself.  
  
  Q.  At the end of the year when you ask yourself that question, am I a  better golfer than I was at the beginning of the year, how many years has it  been a yes since you've turned pro?   
 TIGER WOODS: Every.   
  
  Q.  How so, you always used the words "own your swing," which I  think is a Mo Norman term from a long time ago about possessing the golf swing;  what does that mean to you, and how close are you to owning your swing?  
 TIGER WOODS: I don't know.  That's a good question.   
 You know, here is one of the things  about a golf swing, is that for me, would you like to own your own golf swing,  yes. But in actuality, do you ever get  there? No. That's the beauty of it, isn't it. You're coming back tomorrow, trying to be  better than you are today.   
  
  Q.  I'm wondering as far as European players go, I know it's hard to clump  everybody together, but in general, maybe some of the guys specifically, what  do you like about them and why do you think some of these European players have  become so popular here in the U.S.?   
 TIGER WOODS: They dress funny. (Laughter).  
 No, they are a great bunch of guys,  the guys I have gotten to know every the years and on the teams that we've  competed against in Ryder Cups, and as well as the other guys who have been on  those teams but who play over here full-time.  They are a great bunch of guys. I  think it's just their spirit and how they live life. It's so different than how we are here. And obviously you go to Asia and that's very different to how we  are here as well. There's a cultural  difference, and I think that's what you see and I think that's why, you know, a  lot of Americans, the fans, tend to gravitate towards them because they do  enjoy life.   
  
  Q.  You put a lot of Pro-Am events, and you'll be playing probably tomorrow,  can you explain how it feels to see someone just light up with excitement just  getting to play a round of golf with you out there?   
 TIGER WOODS: Why?  (Laughing) Maybe, you know, just  going out there and just enjoying some time.  But, hey, playing with me, I don't know, the people get nervous and I  have no idea why. We're out there just  to have some fun, hit the ball around. I  hit the ball all over the place in the Pro-Am.  There are many Pro-Ams I don't break 80, so I'm right there with them.   
 We have a great time doing that and  having just great conversations and basically I want to make them take them out  of their natural environment and take them out of, you know, every day life and  what they do. Let's talk about other  things, things that you enjoy doing. That  to me is fun, to learn something about them, also to make them feel comfortable  where they can do these type of things.   
  
  Q.  Bobby Jones and Jack Nicklaus both when they did their design work,  built dream courses or home clubs that hosted tournaments, do you see yourself  taking on some sort of a project like that that's maybe your own concept for a  course, and maybe it's a club just for your friends; and if so, what kind of  course and place would it be?   
 TIGER WOODS: Yes, and hopefully one day. Obviously you have to get the right situation  where you can do that, you can go ahead and design what you think is how golf  should be played.   
 For me, I always believe in golf  should have open front. You should be  able to utilize the ground and don't take away the short game. I play golf courses on Tour and we all see  it, miss the green, automatic lob-wedge, hack it out of the rough. That to me is not fun golf. Fun golf is Pinehurst. Fun golf is playing links golf. Fun golf is learning to how to maneuver the  ball on the ground and give yourself options.  One of the hardest up-and-downs is when you have options. You have so many different ways to play and  you see a lot of pros really mess up easy shots because they have so many  different options. I think that's taken  away from the game of golf now, and ridiculous at how the modern golf courses  are designed, that's how they are designed is they have taken that option away  and that's too bad.  
  
 Q.  Just wonder if I can get you to weigh the pluses and minuses on a couple  of topics, a, the Golf Channel taking over the brunt of the broadcasting next  year with a limited amount of homes limited market penetration, and secondly,  if you could share your most recent round of thoughts on the FedExCup as it is  now configured, the pluses and minuses as you see it on that front.   
 TIGER WOODS: As far as the Golf Channel, I think that  obviously the Golf Channel has invested an inordinate amount of dollars in  trying to grow and obviously with Comcast as their backer, I think they will  reach a lot of homes. It's just a matter  of getting that out. That's going to be  the tricky part. I think it's going to  be how it's presented and also the people that are obviously doing the  commentating, it has a lot to do with that.  Hopefully we can grow the game of golf through that. But you know, we've got to see what happens.   
 As far as the FedExCup, it's all new  to us and we've never had a playoff system before. We've never had big events basically every  month. Then the end of the season  meaning so much, so quickly. Usually the  end of the year is just trying to get in The TOUR Championship, or granted it  is, but it's just a different way. You  know, I don't quite understand it yet, haven't quite got to -- because it keeps  changing.   
 So, you know, we'll see over this  off-season. I know the fields are now  shrinking in the playoffs, which I think is what the playoffs should do. You know, it's more of a curiosity I think  for all of us. We are all going to go  through this new experience together, and it will be interesting to see, you  know, how the players handle it, how the fans receive it, and who comes out on  top.   
  
  Q.  You said early on that comparing this season with previous seasons,  obviously some of the stuff not to make light of it or to diminish it, but  clearly some of this stuff that happened off the course in a lot of people's  eyes made the season that much more difficult for anybody to go through, but in  your eyes, is this season because of the off-course stuff, statistically what  you did on the course, would it be ranked as the most difficult and the best  season with the end results you had?   
 TIGER WOODS: Certainly the most difficult season I've ever  had, no doubt about that. You know, you  don't ever want to lose your parent, your father, your mentor, and best  friend. So you never ever want to have  that happen. When that day happens, when  you think you're prepared for it, Dad's health hasn't been very good over the  last few years and there's been a few times when we thought he was going to  move on. But he kept fighting back and  he kept coming back and finally this one got him.   
 It was certainly most difficult year  I've ever had because you think you're prepared for it, you think you've gone  down this road, you think you can handle it and all of a sudden it happens and  you find out that it affects you a lot deeper than you actually thought  previously.   
  
  Q.  And in regards to the Nike driver you talked about earlier, you said  you're launching it a little bit higher and it's not quite dialed in for you  yet. Nike and Callaway, they have come  out with the square drivers, Titleist has one that's almost shaped like a  triangle. Can you comment in general  about the new driver technology and the new orthodox look that many of the  other companies are getting involved with now?  
 TIGER WOODS: Well, they are actually going and just using  pure physics. It's not about a classic  shape. The classic shape, it's classic  to us as players, but if you're a rocket scientist and a physicist, you  wouldn't design the drivers we've been playing.  That's probably the biggest difference.  The ball, if you want to hit the ball straight and launch it  consistently at a certain angle with the least amount of spin, well, that's not  going to be the drivers that are shaped what we've been playing. You look at all the different innovations  we've seen in just the shortest club we have in our bag is our putter, just how  we can actually produce more of an efficient roll by going through something  that's not a classical shape. So that's  obviously changed the game quite dramatic and then obviously now with these  drivers, it's doing the same thing.   
  
  Q.  In the last five years or so, we've seen a lot of I guess explosion  really of utility, hybrid types of clubs, even on the Tour players teeing off  with them from time to time. I'm curious  if you've experimented with any of the hybrid technology and why you have or  have not put it into your bag.   
 TIGER WOODS: Why I haven't put it in my bag? I think I'm still strong enough to hit a  3-iron in the air. (Laughter).  
 No, the game has changed and you're  right, a lot of it has to do with the golf ball. A lot of it, it launches higher, yes, but it  produces a lot less spin. So in order it  get the ball in the air, you've got to have spin. You've got to have lift and that's  changed. You know, with the opportunity  to produce less spin, most amateurs cannot get a 3- or 4-iron up in the  air. That's one of the reasons why I  changed to 5-wood instead of a 2-iron is because the balls just are not quite  lifting as high. If I went back to my  old golf ball, the balls I used to play, even a few years ago, I would hit them  higher.   
 But the balls nowadays, we've sacrificed  spin for distance and that's kind of the nature of the game is trying to hit  the ball, the game has been pushed to go further and further and because of  that, anything that has less spin launches higher and obviously it's going to  carry further and roll further and that's kind of where the game is headed.  
  
  Q.  Have you even tinkered at all with the hybrid or is it something you  wouldn't even bother with?   
 TIGER WOODS: I've certainly tried like anybody just  because that might improve my game. I  actually had a hard time keeping the ball down.  For me and playing in cross-winds, you know, I'd like to flatten my shot  out. But the hybrid, I wasn't able to do  it consistently, so I guess as I get older, every ten years, I'll put in a new  wood. (Laughter) 40 is a 7-wood and 50  is a 9-wood.   
  
   
  End  of FastScripts…  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT