THE RYDER CUP
September 27, 2018
Tiger Woods
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What excites you most about this partnership with Patrick?
TIGER WOODS: It's going to be fun for both of us.  We've been looking forward to teaming up and doing something like this together.  We finally have our opportunity to go against two great competitors.  One is The Open Champion, and Tommy's played obviously extremely well and very consistently all year.
Q. Speaking of those two, you have some experience against Molinari in The Ryder Cup.
TIGER WOODS: I have, yes.
Q. Tommy, you've played together recently.  What's going to be the biggest challenge?
TIGER WOODS: I think that those are some of the two best ball-strikers we have on Tour, and this is certainly a ball-striker's golf course.  It's tight, a lot of rough, I think the forecast is for some wind tomorrow, so it's going to be a difficult task to get the ball in play and important to get the ball in play.
The greens, the size that they are, it's going to be important to be able to putt the ball in the correct sections.  It will be a premium on ball-striking for sure.
PATRICK REED: We both feel like we're playing well and we want to go out there and represent our country the best.  The best way to do that is to go out and have some fun and try to play some good golf and do it the right way, and any time you get to tee it up with Big Cat, it's always fun.
It's going to be energetic.  You know, we look to anchor the team tomorrow morning and get going and hopefully start things off right.
Q. Going up against Tommy, who has won, and Molinari, a Major Champion, what's going to be key tomorrow?
PATRICK REED: Tiger and I are going to play our own game, going out there and enjoying ourselves, feeding off of the crowds and going out and just having a lot of fun.  Just kind of one of those things that it didn't matter who they threw out, their 12 guys, they are all high quality and great golfers.  That's the reason why they are here and representing Europe and playing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT