HSBC WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2006
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What do you say, Tiger?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, he did what he needed to do.  I felt like I hit the ball pretty decent all day.  I just didn't make any putts.  Only putt I think I really made was on the second hole this afternoon.  Other than that I didn't really hole anything.  I had my chances.  I just had a hard time with my pace and if you had a hard time with your pace, it's hard to read the greens.

Q.  You're not the first person to struggle to read the greens here.  Was that the main problem, reading it?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, it's easy to read when you have good pace.  I didn't have very good pace today.  It just made for a little more of a difficult day.  My pace, it got a little bit better in the afternoon on the back nine but by then it was already too late, I was already three or four down.

Q.  Was there a point where you mentally conceded?
TIGER WOODS:  No.
Q.  The cynics will say that you don't care about it and you were not trying your hardest; I suspect that was not the case?
TIGER WOODS:  Obviously they don't know me very well, do they.
Q.  Disappointed that you had five wins in a row and that run's come to an end?
TIGER WOODS:  Of course.  I don't think you're ever excited that you lost.  I don't know what person is excited when they lost.

Q.  So what now, fishing in Ireland or back home to America?
TIGER WOODS:  I don't know.  That's a good question.  Right now I'm probably going to go work out and get some of this frustration out and see what happens.

Q.  The fact that he's such a durable competitor, and you knew at Medinah did you not, that he was?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, he won a major championship, and also on one of most difficult golf courses, too, Oak Hill.  Shaun is a fantastic competitor.  Did he what he needed to do today, get the ball in play, kept putting the pressure on me.

I had my chances at putts and I didn't make any putts today.  The only putt I really made today was the second hole this afternoon.  So other than that, it was very frustrating not to hole any putts, because I had makeable looks, and I just couldn't get any at the end to put the pressure back on Shaun.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT