DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2006
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  World No. 1, Tiger Woods.  Thank you for joining us.  Long day, 67, three shots behind Vijay heading into the final round, maybe some opening comments.
TIGER WOODS:  Well, I felt like I hit it good enough to get it into double digits today and I missed too many putts.  And consequently I didn't get there.  I had the momentum early.  I was 3 under through 7 and missed a short one there at five.  I had numerous opportunities to make some putts and just didn't do it.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Questions, please.
Q.  Your mood didn't look great coming in, swinging off the tee and whatnot.  Even on 17 I think you took your hand off the club.  The shot looked like it worked out okay, you were staring at your divot, but can you talk about that?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, the club was dropping down underneath behind me.  And I was just saving it at the bottom and it wasn't very good.  I just timed it up right coming through the ball.  So it ended up looking all right, but it sure didn't feel very good.
Q.  What club did you hit on 18 and you seemed equally disgusted with that shot.
TIGER WOODS:  That was a 4 iron.  And again, the club was laid down behind me and coming down and I just chased it out there and it turned out okay, but no, coming from that position you can, you can hit it both ways.  So I got to get it worked out tomorrow.
Q.  Were you aware of what Vijay was doing out there and does it make it doubly frustrating because you know that a great round was out there?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, I saw on the putting green that he was 5 under through five.  And the next time I saw anything he was 9 under through 17 as I was walking off 11.  So it was awfully impressive playing today.  Given the conditions, I mean he, that's a great round of golf.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:  No wind, but you have to drive the ball in the fairway and because you get the ball in hand, if you drive it in the rough you're not going to control your distances very well.  Even from the fairway you can catch a couple little quick ones.  The ball can travel the wrong distance.  And I think that's the hardest thing is that controlling your distances when you're, the fairways are that wet and the rain is coming down.
Q.  I assume you're in the last group, I don't know how Justin Rose finished up.  Does this bring back memories of two years ago, I think you were trailing by two shots then as well?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, hopefully I can play a little better than I did last time.  I think I tied him at one point with a few holes to go and wasn't    I made a bogey there on 14, I believe.  15.  14.  Anyways, I just know that tomorrow, given the conditions, as soft as they are, I'm going to have to make some birdies.

If the wind doesn't blow, you can pretty much fire at every flag and you know it's not going to skip over the back, it's going to stay right there.
Q.  The first eight or nine holes it looked like you were hitting it the way you wanted to.  Where did it get away from you?
TIGER WOODS:  Kind of.  It was all right.  It was borderline.  I was hoping that I could keep it right where I was at, if not get better.  But it kind of slipped the other way a little bit.  Got a little bit worse coming in.
Q.  For a competitor like yourself, will it help to be in the last group with Vijay tomorrow?
TIGER WOODS:  It's always great to be in the last group because obviously you can see what Vijay is doing and hopefully I can go out there and play well and make some birdies early and keep the momentum going.
Q.  There was a lot made when your streak ended here at the World Rankings, whereabouts was your game at this point two years ago?
TIGER WOODS:  Oh, I was still in the mix of trying to put the pieces together working with Hank.  So a lot of things were, each shot I had to think about, it felt like a million things, just to pull off one golf shot.  Where that's not the case any more.
Q.  Knowing the attention that was on that moment was that difficult?
TIGER WOODS:  Was that difficult?  No, not like    at the outside stuff wasn't difficult, no.  Trying to hit a golf shot when you got so many thoughts on your mind, just to hit a proper golf shot, that's the hard part.
Q.  Vijay talked a lot about calm and peace on how that translates into good golf.  And I'm just wondering, how much peace was there or not there when you're in a position where you're trying to win, Vijay amps it up a little bit and everything is at stake and you know you were having to think so much?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, but you also got to look at the big picture as well.  That's just a week, it's just a tournament, and right then I was just building to this point where I'm at now.  So at the time I knew that I didn't have my best stuff, but hopefully I would have played better than I did, but I didn't.  And Vijay ended up winning the tournament.  But I went through a period where that building process was done and here I am.
Q.  Is there a chance you'll be any more juiced tomorrow because you're playing with Vijay again as you did two years ago and you got a chance to turn the tables on him?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I got one more round before I can put the bag away for awhile.  So I'll muster enough energy for tomorrow, no problem at all.  It won't be a problem.
Q.  Looking ahead a bit to the Ryder Cup, we had the Europeans name their last two members today, Clarke and Westwood, can you speak a bit about how the teams are matched and how you feel heading out towards that?
TIGER WOODS:  Well I don't know who is on their team other than some of the guys.  I don't know the whole team.  So I don't know how that shaped up how many guys got passed or dropped.  I don't know.  So no changes at all?  So.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:  Well, they're going to have a pretty good team over there.  You got some experience and obviously some inspiration as well with Darren on the team and all the things that he's had to deal with.  You don't wish that on anybody.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Tiger Woods, thanks.
TIGER WOODS:  You got it.  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT