WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 24, 2006
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIGER WOODS:  I hit a driver and a wedge to about 12 feet and made it.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS:  I am.  I didn't hit the ball very good starting out, but I fixed a couple things on the back nine, got it turned around, and really played a pretty good back nine, then got myself four back of the lead.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, I had Monday and Tuesday off, which was great.  I didn't do anything, just nothing associated with golf.  I was just trying to clean up the house.  We have a puppy that's leaving a couple new things around the house, so I tried to take care of that.  It was nice to just get away from it for a little bit.

I had a light practice of nine holes yesterday with Corey, and today I came out fresh and ready to go.
Q.  Are you going to the K Club?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I'm going.  We're all going together.  I had to reschedule a couple things.
Q.  When are you coming back?
TIGER WOODS:  Wednesday morning.  I get back Wednesday morning here.
Q.  What's the puppy's name?
TIGER WOODS:  Yogi, like Yogi Bear.  He looks more like Yogi Bear.
Q.  What kind?
TIGER WOODS:  It's a Labradoodle.

Back to golf (laughter).
Q.  Obviously you thought it was important enough to reschedule things to go next week.  What was the thinking behind that?
TIGER WOODS:  I've seen The K Club enough, but just to be with the guys.  We're going there as a team and going there just to hang out and relax and play a little golf.  Most of the guys haven't played the golf course very much, and if I can help out at all, I can hopefully, and maybe pass on a few tidbits that I've learned over the years of playing there.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS:  I have not met him, no, not yet.  I have seen him this week.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, this is a World Golf Championship, so this is where we have the best players in the world here.  You can get fired up for that in a heartbeat, and on top of that, this is one of my favorite golf courses in the world.  So coming here and playing this, it's always fun.
Q.  Can you go through your round?
TIGER WOODS:  I birdied 2, I drove it in the right bunker, caught the lip coming out, ended up short right, pitched up there to about four feet, made that.

Bogeyed 4.

5, I hit a 7 iron to about 20 feet, made that.

6, I hit a driver and a 7 iron to about six feet, made that.

16, I hit a driver and laid up with a 9 iron, hit a 60 degree sand wedge to about eight feet and made that.

And 18, driver, wedge pair.
Q.  How many drivers did you hit today?
TIGER WOODS:  I hit it on 2, 4, 6, 9, 10, 12, 13, 16, 18.  You count how many times that is.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS:  There are a lot of things I've shifted since I've been on Tour, a lot of things.  That's just one of them.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS:  I think certainly it can be in the future, and I think we should be proactive instead of reactive, and I think that we should    just like the driver situation, we were reactive there instead of proactive.

I just think that we should be ahead of it and keep our sport as pure as can be.  This is a great sport and it's always been clean.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS:  Have a program in place before guys are actually doing well, know who's doing it, and then create a program.  I think that would be reactive.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS:  I'd be in favor of that, no doubt about that.  I would be in favor of that, yes.  I don't know if we could get that implemented in time.  It's fine with me.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS:  It depends on what it is because each sport kind of takes a few things off of it, and some sports are pretty strict about what they can take.  They can't even take aspirin.  I don't know how that would work.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT