PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2006
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Tiger, great round.  What was out there for you today?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, it was just one of those days where    just like I told Billy over here, it was more like not really in the sense of a major championship feel in the sense that I generally make a bunch of pars, sprinkle in a few birdies here and there and you're looking pretty good.

Today looking at the guys starting out, they were all 3 under through 5, 4 under through 7.  It could be had today and you knew you had to go get it.  I was fortunate enough to go ahead and post a good one today because if I stayed at even par I would have gotten run over.  Generally that's not the way it is in major championships.
Q.  This calls for an immodest answer, but why have you been so effective as a closer in majors with the lead on a Sunday?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, I enjoy it.  I enjoy being in that position.  It's fun.  It's why I practice all those hours to get myself in that position.  As of right now I have the lead, but it may not be by the end of the day.  Hopefully tomorrow I'll go ahead and play the way I did today.
Q.  Shaun Micheel said it felt like the Bob Hope out there for a while.  The difference between the PGA and the U.S. Open at times where you have a chance to make birdies, whereas a U.S. Open you keep making pars and you're creeping up the leaderboard.  Is it more fun out there today?
TIGER WOODS:  It just felt different.  It wasn't your typical major championship in the sense that you had to go make a bunch of birdies.  As I said earlier, if you've made a bunch of pars and shot even par, you'll just get run over.  That's normally    it's normally not like this.

But today was different.  The greens were really slow.  They were extremely soft, and you could go ahead and bang the putts and they weren't going to run too far past the hole.  You had to watch out for the occasional spike mark here and there, but other than that every ball where it landed was where it was going to stay or come back a little bit.
Q.  You made a lot of big putts today.  How good was that first one?
TIGER WOODS:  It was nice because I hit a terrible tee shot, a bad second shot.  All I could do was put the ball on the green somewhere on the third and to walk away with 4 was a bonus because it shouldn't have been a 4 the way I hit the shots.  Then I made 2 at the 2nd and I was off and running.
Q.  If conditions held like this, this moist and the greens this receptive, what do you expect for tomorrow?
TIGER WOODS:  It's the same.  You've got to make a bunch of birdies.  If it stays this soft, you're going to have to continue just making birdies because if the ball is plugging on the greens and the greens don't have that roll out speed on them, you're really not afraid of any putt out here.  You can be pretty aggressive, which is just about every single putt, even downhill putts, which is very different.  I left a bunch of putts short today, which normally I don't do.
Q.  Given that closing record, do you think that's starting to become worth a little something in terms of a mental edge or intimidating edge when you get in the next situation like that?
TIGER WOODS:  I don't know, but I enjoy being in that position.  It's why I practice, why I work so hard to get myself in that position.  Hopefully I can go out there and play the way I did today.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT