BUICK OPEN
August 4, 2006
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You're used to late tee times, maybe not this late.
TIGER WOODS: And I thought we had another delay there, too.
Q.  The delay on 13 tee
TIGER WOODS:  No, just teeing off, we didn't get started on time.  We were still 20 minutes late behind our delayed time.

I hit the ball pretty good today.  It was fun.  I hit it good and controlled my ball and I putted really well.  That's the key.  If you want to make birdies you have to putt well.
Q.  Looked like there were three or four putts that you lipped out.
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, as long as I can keep putting myself in position like that to make putts, that's fine.  If you give yourself enough looks at putts, they are going to go in pretty much did that all day.
Q.  Did you feel you were in a rhythm, even with all of the changes and delays and all that?
TIGER WOODS:  I got into the rhythm of the round again pretty quick which was nice.  I birdied the first hole right out of gate, and that always puts a nice positive tone to your round.  I basically continued that for the rest of the day.
Q.  Inaudible?
TIGER WOODS:  I couldn't see.  I had a hard time reading the putt on 15 there.  It was nice to actually be able to stop.  We go down to 16, there's no way we could have seen our putt down there with all those trees.
Q.  What did you do with all that downtime?
TIGER WOODS:  This morning I worked out and ate.
Q.  A lot of eating?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, not enough.  I'm starving now.
Q.  Talk about the putt on 14.
TIGER WOODS:  Well, I left it short.  At least, I didn't give it a chance.  It would have been nice to actually give it a chance.  It's not very good when you can leave a 15 footer about a foot and a half short.  That's kind of embarrassing.
Q.  The delay
TIGER WOODS:  We can only go as fast as the group in front of us.  There was a logjam there on 13 and we weren't going anywhere.  We knew we weren't going to finish.  We were just hoping that we could at least get to 15 or 16 and we were be able to complete 15 which was nice.
Q.  Still playing well.
TIGER WOODS:  I played well today.  I hit the ball well and I putted well and I really controlled my pace on the greens all day.
Q.  At what point did it get difficult, 14, 15?
TIGER WOODS:  15, I had a hard time reading the green there.  Luckily it was a pretty easy putt.  It was going left to right, but if we would have played 16, I think all of us would have probably decided not to finish out the hole, probably played the hole, and putted out tomorrow.
Q.  Is that a good place to start tomorrow?
TIGER WOODS:  It's nice, yeah.  Go ahead and hit it down there and hopefully it will be warm enough where we can get there in two.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT