THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2006
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Tell us about that hole.
TIGER WOODS:  The eagle?  I hit 2 iron off the tee.  I hit a 4 iron into the green and I had a putt, and as I said earlier, I don't know who it was, but someone made that same putt earlier this morning.  I was watching it on the telecast.  It doesn't break at the end, it holds its line.  I played it on the right edge.  I hit it and it held its line all the way here.  Normally I would have given that hole away if I hadn't seen that putt earlier in the morning.
Q.  Did you drive on any hole besides 16?
TIGER WOODS:  No.  And I really wasn't supposed to do that, either.  I was trying to    the entire week has been 2 iron, 3 wood off that tee.  But with the wind being down today, I could fly the bunkers.  It felt like it took the bunkers completely out of play, and it did.
Q.  Finishing eagle saved the day for you?
TIGER WOODS:  No, I think it was 14, making an up and down there, because I had potentially three birdie holes, 15, 16 and 18.  I didn't want to drop there and go back to 1 under par.  It was nice to hit that save there and keep the momentum going, and finished off the round very well.
Q.  How far was that putt on 14?
TIGER WOODS:  It was only about six feet.
Q.  After missing the cut at the U.S. Open, how does it feel to just be right back?
TIGER WOODS:  I got back at the Western, finishing second with the chance the last nine holes to win the golf tournament, especially starting off the tournament not so well, getting it back and almost winning the golf tournament.  It sort of happened a couple of weeks ago.  You have to have something to turn you around a little bit.

And I only played basically two competitive rounds in almost three and a half months.  It was nice to get four rounds in.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:  No, no, you can't out there.  It's going to be playing tricky out there.  The golf course, if you hit good shots you can make birdies.  The key is just to keep playing yourself back.  I made that mistake on the first hole.  I hit a terrible putt on the second putt.  And from there I made a couple of good ones for par and missed a couple for birdie.  But you have four par 5s that you can reach and also a couple of par 4s that are on the short side.  You can take care of those holes and those are legitimate birdie holes.
Q.  How far was the second shot on 18?
TIGER WOODS:  I don't know what I had to the hole but I had 236 to the front.
Q.  Could you take us through No. 11?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, well, it was a terrible 3 wood over the right and they couldn't move the sign out.  I could have taken relief and dropped it, but I would have dropped it further away, which would mean I would have an even worse angle.  So I had to stick with what I had, and I actually had a pretty good lie.  And I went ahead and decided to hit it.
Q.  What was it to the hole?
TIGER WOODS:  A little wedge.  I had 109 to the hole.
Q.  When you see that there are so many guys under par, does it cause you any anxiety to know you're already behind or
TIGER WOODS:  No, you can make birdies out there, and obviously guys are doing it, so it can be done.  We started at the beginning of the day saying it wouldn't surprise us if seven or eight was leading.  But six is leading.  We're right there in the ballgame with five.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:  With the way the golf course was playing earlier in the week, yeah.  It was a lot faster earlier in the week.  The rain last night slowed it down a little bit, but I don't think The R&A will put any more water on it, considering there's so many guys under par.
Q.  Your relationship with Nick seemed very cordial.
TIGER WOODS:  We were out there playing and competing.  Nick didn't get off to a good start, and neither did I.  We were grinding, trying to get ourselves back and turn things around.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TIGER WOODS:  No, I don't remember, sorry.
Q.  Is it going to take 20 some under to win this tournament?
TIGER WOODS:  I'd take that right now, yeah.  But realistically is it going to take that?  I don't think so.
Q.  Do you do anything to your wedges when you come over here?
TIGER WOODS:  No, same wedges.  The only thing I've changed is 2 iron instead of 5 wood.
Q.  If there's no more rain, will the course get back to what it was like on Tuesday, Wednesday?
TIGER WOODS:  Probably not tomorrow, but certainly Saturday afternoon and definitely Sunday.  If the wind continues to blow, it will continue to dry things out.  If they don't put any water on the greens they are going to get awfully quick.  The greens are holding.  Into the wind    I saw guys backing balls up into the wind.  It can be done.  You just have to continue to be patient.
Q.  Is your confidence back to where you want it?
TIGER WOODS:  Shooting 67 makes me feel good, yes.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT