CIALIS WESTERN OPEN
July 7, 2006
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TIGER WOODS:  At least I'm hitting the ball better, so I'm pretty excited.
Q.  I almost starved to death last night watching you on the range.  It was still dark and you were still hitting golf balls out there.  What did you find out?
TIGER WOODS:  A lot of different things.  We were working on a bunch of different things which I needed to get organized.  There's nothing like hard work.  I did that last night.
Q.  A little bit better today?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, a lot better today, which was exciting.  I did some good work last night.
Q.  You spent two and a half hours out on the range last night.  Did you find something that you were looking for when you spent all that time out there?
TIGER WOODS:  We had to organize a whole bunch of different things.  If I do this, it leads to that, that, that.  I just needed to keep progressing and had to get everything organized, and I did that, which is really nice.  Today I drove it great, hit my irons better    not great but better, and I didn't really make anything on my back nine.  But I made a few putts on the front nine.
Q.  You birdied four of the first six holes you played, so you had it going early, didn't you?
TIGER WOODS:  A little bit.  I knocked it on on both par 5s in two, so just two two putts, and the others were putts I made.

But overall I felt like I put myself in position off the tees to give myself some aggressive runs.  I hit my irons all right today.  It wasn't great, but I'll go do some work on that right now and get a little bit organized for tomorrow.
Q.  3 under now after two rounds.  Are you happy with that after 1 over yesterday?
TIGER WOODS:  Considering the way I started, no.  Being 4 under par as you said through 6 early, I felt I could have taken advantage of that back nine    front nine, my back nine, and made a few more birdies and gotten this thing a little bit closer to the lead.  It looks like I'm going to have to play    have a really good weekend to have a chance.
Q.  Nine straight pars on your back nine.  Couldn't get anything going?  Is that basically what it was?
TIGER WOODS:  I didn't make any putts.  I hit good putts that didn't go in and I hit bad putts that weren't even close.  I've got a little bit of work to do this afternoon.
Q.  Do you think because your irons are coming around you're on the verge of getting it going?
TIGER WOODS:  You can hit it great but if you don't make any putts you're not going to shoot any good scores.  You've got it hit it close but you also have to make the putts.  I made a couple there on my back nine, and I could have made a lot more, but just didn't do it.
Q.  You know this place as well as anybody.  Seven back with two days to go, is that too much?
TIGER WOODS:  I'm going to have to shoot a low weekend.  There's too many guys.  With that many guys, they're going to make birdies.  The golf course is soft.  Even the wind is blowing a little bit, but the golf course is still soft.  Being this hot out, the ball flies for miles.  I'm hitting drives that I normally don't hit that far.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  Good question.  Probably the putt on    I think 17 might have been the longest, about 12 feet.
Q.  Do you think this might be the year for Milwaukee for you?
TIGER WOODS:  When is Milwaukee?
Q.  Opposite the British.
TIGER WOODS:  (Laughing.)
Q.  Take us through that shot on 11, the par 5.
TIGER WOODS:  Well, I had to get up over that tree.  It's right in front of me, and I lay the face open like a flop shot with a 4 iron, way left and hit the crap out of it.
Q.  From a mental standpoint, is it harder to play a round where you're hitting the ball well like today and not making putts, or is it harder to struggle around the fairways?
TIGER WOODS:  You'd much rather hit the ball well and not putt well because at least it's pretty easy.  You're not struggling for pars.  I had a lot of kick ins today for pars.  It's pretty stress free when you do it that way.  If it ever gets rolling, you make two, three, four in a row, you turn basically a 4 , 5 , 6 under par round pretty easily.
Q.  What happened on 16, the bogey?  Were you back there in that bunker?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I hit it right in the middle of the fairway and hit a wedge too hard.  The wind was coming off the left at the time, and I didn't get it up and down.

I'm pleased with the way I was able to make the changes from yesterday to today and adapt and hopefully I can do some good work this afternoon for a few hours and get it turned around for tomorrow.
Q.  What were some of the things that you changed?
TIGER WOODS:  It's a combo platter (laughter).  If I didn't do a couple things right, I couldn't do the next couple.  That's why it took me so long on the range, because I had to groove a couple things in before I could move on.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT