CIALIS WESTERN OPEN
July 6, 2006
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Great way to finish.
TIGER WOODS:  That's one way of looking at it.  A little frustrating day today.  I hit a lot of beautiful putts that didn't go in early and didn't really have any control of my irons today.  My distance control wasn't very good, my direction wasn't very good.  I hit the driver halfway decent today, just didn't take advantage of my irons when I had the opportunity.
Q.  Do you attribute that in part to not playing competitively lately?
TIGER WOODS:  No, I know what I'm doing wrong, just having a hard time stopping it.  I'm going to go to the range, there's plenty of daylight, and fix it.
Q.  What happened on 15?
TIGER WOODS:  Hit a terrible tee shot.  I hit a couple shots left and got one going left.
Q.  Do you have an adjustment that you're working on?  Do you know what it is?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I know what it is, I just have a hard time doing it in competition.  Welcome to golf.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  Well, I think it's just because I feel comfortable with this golf course.  Even though I didn't have it today, I still had a lot of opportunities to post a round in the red.  I didn't do it, but at least I had the opportunity to do it.  I wasn't that far off, it was just a matter of tweak it here and there, but this is just a wonderful golf course.  I always feel good playing here.  Even if I'm swinging the club great or I'm swinging the club poor, I always love playing this course.
Q.  You're a guy who focuses a lot of majors and the history of the game.  When you're trying to work on something with your game, how much do you do with that versus trying to get out here and get into competition?
TIGER WOODS:  Right now I'm trying to do the latter because I have a place.  This is my second tournament since Augusta.  Not a lot of golf this year, so I'm trying to get some rounds under my belt, and hopefully this week will be four rounds.  I feel like I hit a lot of good golf shots today, but the ones that I hit poor I knew what I was doing wrong, which was a great thing.  I fixed it for most of the day.
Q.  Do you want to talk about the golf swing?  Obviously the putting stroke was something you also struggled with quite a bit.  Can you tell us where you are with that right now?
TIGER WOODS:  I finally putted good.  I hit so many beautiful putts early that rolled right over the edge of the hole.  It's disappointing they didn't go in, but I hit good putts, so that's not something that's going to bug me at all.  I had a three putt there at 14, but I felt like I really rolled it really well today, they just didn't go in.  If I was hitting putts that I knew were mis hits that didn't go in, then we've got a problem.  If I hit good putts    evidently I didn't read them right, so hopefully I get them on line tomorrow.
Q.  Is there something that will give you that confidence to get you back in the groove?
TIGER WOODS:  We'll start off on the back nine tomorrow, so the first few holes are birdie holes, and hopefully I can get off to a quick start and go about it from there.
Q.  Without getting too technical, what is it you need to work on with your irons?
TIGER WOODS:  It's just my release.
Q.  A little more technical?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, it's basically how I release the club and make sure I'm keeping the club on line.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT