U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2006
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
(Inaudible)?
 TIGER WOODS:  Well, once the greens, I adjusted to the greens, I just had a hard time adjusting earlier.  I finally, though, decided to make a shoulder turn on the greens, and once I did that I was all right.
Q.  What was the lie like (inaudible)?
 TIGER WOODS:  Well, I was just trying to get back to 4.  I thought that would be a pretty good job after shooting 5 on the front; get 1-under par on the back I should be all right.

Well, I did not quite do that, but at least I'm still in the ballgame with two rounds.
Q.  Were you surprised with how quick those first couple were?
 TIGER WOODS:  They've been slow all week, and, you know, I just didn't make that adjustment faster.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 TIGER WOODS:  Well, it was just a bad shot.  Most of my tee shots I was pulling just a touch.  Wanted to make sure I didn't pull that one and I didn't.  Just tried to hit the ball right there up at the green and have some kind of shot, get some kind of down-grain lie, which I did.  From there I just hit a terrible flop shot.  Flubbed a pitch and made a good putt.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 TIGER WOODS:  Very surprised I didn't feel hardly any.  If I would have just made a faster adjustment on the greens, I would have been fine.  The beginning part, I felt like I was hitting it well.  If I would have made the adjustment faster then I wouldn't have been so far behind the eight ball.
Q.  Are the greens (inaudible)?
 TIGER WOODS:  Depends, because you know how much it's hopping; you may get some putts that are hopping a lot.  Our group just had a hard time with the speed.  The putts we did make were pretty easy putts.  Most of the putts we hit in our group were running with poor speed.  You don't normally see that with guys that are decent putters.
Q.  Was it basically on the greens that kept your score high?
 TIGER WOODS:  Starting out, yeah, definitely, the first three holes right there.  I cost myself three shots.  Just got off to a bad start earlier with the wind blowing as hard as it was, and it was going to be hard to make up shots, and I didn't; I lost ground.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 TIGER WOODS:  My mind, definitely, just being patient, grinding and fighting, staying calm and getting the job done, being focused on each and every shot, that was fine.  Unfortunately I got so far behind earlier and the conditions toughening up a little bit, I just didn't get it back.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 TIGER WOODS:  I know the greens will be a little bit quicker.  The guys were saying that it's -- we're not used to it in the U.S. Open.  We just need to make the adjustment.  We have plenty of time to on the putting green.
Q.  Mike Davis a couple days ago said that you asked him, "When are you going to make these greens faster."  Would you like to see them faster?
 TIGER WOODS:  You're used to playing U.S. Opens with fast greens; these aren't.  With the pitch on these greens, you have to keep it on the slower side; we're just not used to being in the U.S. Open with greens this slow.  If anything, the greens should have been slower last year.  You have to make the adjustment.  We're all playing the same golf course.  You just have to understand that they're just a little bit slower than we're used to.
Q.  (Inaudible) low score that could be had out there tomorrow?
 TIGER WOODS:  The greens are soft on some holes.  Some holes are spongy and stringy.  You can throw the ball in there and have it stop virtually where it landed.  But in the wind hole, after three, I wasn't very happy.
Q.  Do you thing you can still get out there and catch the leader and still be around --
TIGER WOODS:  Just have to plod along, so we'll see what happens.
Q.  Do you find that the not being competitive is affecting you at all?
 TIGER WOODS:  No.  I felt pretty good.  I expected to be on the rusty side, but I really felt good.  I started off swinging well.  The only thing that got my round out to a bad start was not adjusting to the greens.  And once I did that, I was fine, but I was a so far behind.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 TIGER WOODS:  No, it wasn't hard.  I tell you what, the fans were absolutely incredible cheering me on.  I understand the situation where everyone is looking to me to be more emotional.  Right now, I'm just focusing and I'm just trying to win the championship.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 TIGER WOODS:  Some of the holes I drove it to through the doglegs and I hit bad tee shots.  I have to hit the ball in more fairways, be marginally more aggressive, marginally.  At least have situations where you go over a couple of flags.
Q.  At that particular hole (inaudible)?
 TIGER WOODS:  I pulled in the left rough; 9-iron, laid up on the spine; hit an 8-iron in the bunker; flopped it up there to eight feet and missed it.
Q.  Second shot on 9?
TIGER WOODS:  I had 195.  I had a niner.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 TIGER WOODS:  The wind kept changing and I had a 7.  At first I was going to hit low 7 and land on the front edge.  The wind died and I went back to 8.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS:  I just lost it right.  Only place you can't put it.
Q.  (Inaudible) people come back from (inaudible) in the first round and win.  Are you close enough to (inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS:  It's been done before, hasn't it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT