THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 23, 2006
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Give us an idea of where you've been the last two days?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, what day would it be?  Tuesday night    no, Tuesday afternoon, and got back late last night.
Q.  How is your dad doing?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, dad wasn't feeling well, and it's just the same stuff, just tried to go out there and hopefully make his spirits feel a little bit better.

He's a very stubborn man, which is good.  He's fighting as hard as he can.  It was good to see.  At least he's trying to hang in there, which is a very positive sign.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  Oh, yeah.  There's a chance I might not play for a while.  I mean, who knows.  It all depends on how my father is doing.  Actually today was probably the best thing was probably to have a pairing like Darren because everyone knows Darren is kind of struggling with the same thing.  We were talking about it all day.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  No, we didn't really have that conversation.
Q.  How do you commiserate with Darren over something like that?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, it puts things in perspective real quick.  You hit a bad shot and you want to get upset with yourself because you know you can hit better shots, but you know what, in the whole scheme of things, it's just a golf shot.
Q.  Will you go back there after this week?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah.
Q.  Is yesterday a situation where you were trying to pick up his spirits or he was trying to pick up yours?
TIGER WOODS:  I'm always fine.  I'm always good.  Just trying to make him understand that I love him dearly and just want him to hang in there and keep fighting, which he always does.  As I said, he's very stubborn.  It's good to see.
Q.  Was there a particular sign on Tuesday that
TIGER WOODS:  He just wasn't doing all that well.  That's why I went back.
Q.  How hard is it to play golf under these circumstances when your mind might be somewhere else?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, you have plenty of time to focus out there.  It's not one of those things where you're pressured and you have to hit a golf shot.  You have plenty of time to focus and clear the thoughts and try and execute the shot properly, and I tried to do that today.  Unfortunately my mechanics weren't very good.  Positive sign is I hit the ball better coming in, hit some nice shots, and finally putted well the last few holes, which is nice.
Q.  Is it comparable at all to what you had to go through at the TOUR Championship two years ago?
TIGER WOODS:  I guess you could say that.  Any time your parents aren't doing well and their health isn't where it could be and you think it should be, it's always tough.

The TOUR Championship back in '96 wasn't easy, and the situation for our entire family is obviously not easy.  But hey, it's just one of those things you have to deal with.  Everyone has to deal with that at some point in time in their life, and unfortunately right now it's our time.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  Sometimes, yeah.
Q.  When you walked in, did it just put a smile on his face?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, he was happy.  He said, "What the hell are you doing here"?  It was nice to hear that.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
TIGER WOODS:  We never really talked about that, we just talked about him.  It's not about me hitting golf shots, it's about him.  I want him around as long as possible, so it's not about hitting some kind of golf shot at all.  It's about him feeling better, and keep fighting and keep hanging in there.
Q.  What made you decide to play?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, having something to look forward to every day.  Hopefully I'll get on TV and hit some good golf shots, and he can watch it and give him something to look forward to every day.  That's always a positive thing.
Q.  How much does your mind wander and think about this during the round?
TIGER WOODS:  It comes and goes.  I don't think you'd be human if you didn't think about it.  It happens, and obviously you need    hopefully you let it go quickly and focus on the shot.  Sometimes it's easier than others, but as I said, the great thing about golf is you've got plenty of time.  I had plenty of time to get my thoughts together and focus and execute the shot properly.
Q.  Is there a situation where you might not play The Masters?
TIGER WOODS:  You never know.
Q.  Is he in the hospital or at home?
TIGER WOODS:  He was at home.
Q.  When you make a crisscross across the country like that, how much does it take out of you, going out there and back?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, that's one of the reasons why I train as hard as I do, so that I don't have the problems of jet lag.  When I play overseas I don't really feel jet lagged, hardly at all, because of the training regimen.  Going back and forth is really not that hard.  Look at it this way, you can always sleep on an airplane.  There's plenty of time to rest.
Q.  You must feel a little bit drained, emotionally, physically, at this point?
TIGER WOODS:  No, I'm all right.
Q.  Today was it just a matter of not getting
TIGER WOODS:  Today was just a matter of trying to hit the ball in the fairway and I didn't do a very good job of that.  I didn't make any putts.  Finally I started rolling it better on the back nine, as I said, hit some good shots on the back nine, which is nice.  It's just starting out I wasn't very good.  I didn't hit very good shots, didn't putt well, and then on the back nine it was something different, which was nice.
Q.  I heard you say sporadic.
TIGER WOODS:  It totally was because I'd hit two good shots and then hit one off the planet somewhere, hit two good putts and all of a sudden blast one four or five feet past the hole.  It just wasn't very good early.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT