BAY HILL INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 16, 2006
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TIGER WOODS:  I didn't very good over the ball today, putts, chips, full shots, you name it, everything.  Just one of those weird days where I just didn't have it.  Somehow I just tried to piece it together, and I did that for most of the day for the last few holes.
Q.  Was the rough as advertised?
TIGER WOODS:  The rough was up a little bit, yeah.  I drove it pretty good today actually.  A couple bad drives with the driver but other than that, I hit a lot of fairways.  Kept it in there but my iron game wasn't very good.  My speed on the greens wasn't very good.  So got a little bit of work to do this afternoon.
Q.  You had a little momentum going, birdieing four of the first six on this side, and then self inflicted    inaudible?
TIGER WOODS:  It was all smoke and mirrors.  I was just kind of grinding my way along and just trying to be as patient as possible and trying to make something positive happen today.  I was able to get it going a little bit on that back nine.  Still need a little work.
Q.  Everything in town is a lot drier right now, can you tell the difference on the greens especially?
TIGER WOODS:  The greens are still receptive.  They have a lot more grass on them this year.  They are putting better.  They are receptive.

The only thing you have to worry about is spinning the ball back too much which is a little bit different.  Then again, as the week goes on, I'm sure it will dry out a little bit and get a little bit more crusty.
Q.  Does that make the rough more playable, the fact that it's not as wet?
TIGER WOODS:  Depends on what kind of lie you get.  If you drive it in there and it just rolls in, you could have a terrible lie or a great lie.  You just don't know.  Kirk a couple of times today drove it in the rough and he had pitch outs.  It all depends what kind of break you get in the rough and whether you're going downgrain or into the grain.
Q.  The chip on 18?
TIGER WOODS:  I had a hard time making a decision what I was going to do; am I going to throw it up in the air and let it roll?  No, I'll let it roll; no, I'll throw it up; no, I'll let it roll.
Q.  Changed your mind?
TIGER WOODS:  Pretty much, and decided to go with the fluff instead.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT