DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 4, 2006
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Tiger, well played again.  Get us started by talking about the day, the par 5s in particular.
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I played the par 5s well today, and that's what you have to do.  All of them were reachable today.  I took advantage of that, and was able to throw a couple more in there.

Overall just a day where you had to be very patient.  The wind was blowing, the greens were getting really quick and just trying to put the ball in good position to try to be aggressive on putts.
RODDY WILLIAMS:  How do you feel tied for the lead going into the final round.
TIGER WOODS:  Luckily I made up there, I didn't think I was, looking at 17, a couple short holes coming up, but tied for the lead.  I have 18 more to go with a bunch of guys in there.  So hopefully tomorrow I can put together a good round.
Q.  How would you describe your game at the moment in terms of what you're capable of in terms of ball striking in particular?
TIGER WOODS:  Well, I hit the ball pretty good today.  You had to shape a lot of shots, hit a bunch of flat balls, high balls and I felt comfortable with all of that today, which is always nice when the wind blows.
Q.  Second tournament of the year, having won the first one, tied with the lead going into the final round, with what you just said, can't do much better
TIGER WOODS:  You can always do better.  It's golf.
Q.  Talk about your second shot on the 18th, you had some problems, are you going to do something different tomorrow?  What did you hit on your second shot?
TIGER WOODS:  First of all, it's a pretty funky hole, downwind, the ball lands in the fairway, it could easily go in the hazard because the fairway does run away from you.  Today it was into the wind, so it had a back board to try to hit up against which was nice.  I just overcooked it and hit a big hook.  But that's where you have to miss it. you can't miss it right.

I hit a 4 iron, it was probably a 5 iron shot, but didn't want to take a chance of up shooting and trying to hit a cut.  So I hit a smooth 4 and it came out flying a little bit and ended up in the grandstands.  But took a drop from there, Stevie and I checked it out yesterday, just to see where you're going to miss it.
Q.  What will you do there tomorrow?
TIGER WOODS:  I don't know, just try to putt the ball in play if you can.  You don't know what the wind is going to be.  Yesterday it was dead downwind and today it was straight in our face.  So we'll see what happens.
Q.  How much do you want to win this tournament?
TIGER WOODS:  It would be nice.  Look at the past champions, pretty impressive.  I've got 18 more holes with a bunch of guys with a chance.  Hopefully tomorrow I can put together a good round and see what happens.
Q.  It's probably totally irrelevant but why did you change the goatee?
TIGER WOODS:  I forgot to bring my clippers and it was getting really itchy, so getting tired of it.
Q.  What's your next tournament after this week?
TIGER WOODS:  It's either going to be L.A. or the Match Play.
Q.  What are your views on Arjun Atwal?
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, Arjun is a great guy.  I've played some rounds of golf with him and he's a member at Isleworth, so we'll see him out there quite a bit.  He's always been fun to be around and hang out and has bunch of stories, so it's always nice to hear.
Q.  Could you elaborate on some of the stories?
TIGER WOODS:  They are fun stories.  (Laughter).
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Tiger, thanks very much and good luck tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT