BUICK INVITATIONAL
January 26, 2006
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You didn't look real happy out there.
TIGER WOODS:  I struggled today.  I hit my driver short and right and a lot of spin on it today for some reason.  I didn't make two good swings.  I buried it under the lip on 2.  And then on 9, I hit a good one down there into the first cut.  It's one of those things.
Q.  You looked like you were working on your swing path, almost like every swing you would stop and say what am I doing?
TIGER WOODS:  I just couldn't stop it.  I'd let it go and it was going left.  Then I'd say I'm going to try something on 8, and I hit it right.  You can see    (inaudible).  I hit everything right.  I'm going to go on the range here and hit some shots and organize this thing.
Q.  Could you tell us how the club and shaft react?
TIGER WOODS:  It's good if I hit it right.  It's amazing, isn't it?  I just wasn't feeling very comfortable with what I was doing out there today.  Things I was working on, I was getting into position but then not keeping it on the way down.  It was just an ugly round of golf.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  Oh, it was just terrible today.  I was 3 under par at the turn.  I had my opportunities to shoot something pretty good, and I just kicked myself in the foot there, and eventually I got on the bogey train there and then I had a triple bogey.  I salvaged something on the last two holes with 8 and then somehow scrambled up for another birdie on 9.  It wasn't very good day today.
Q.  You can give yourself a little bit of a break because it's the first round.
TIGER WOODS:  You figure I've got my name on my bag, I can hit better shots than that.  That's how it works (laughter).
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  He drove the ball well, hit his irons pretty well.  He didn't make much.  The birdies he did make were from close range.  He hit the ball in the fairway, but still, he could have done a lot more.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I just kept hitting it short right.  I'm not sure what the ShotLink numbers are, but it felt like I was hitting it short right.  I wasn't very good out there.  Like I said, the only two good drives I hit today I buried under the lip on 2 and then in the first cut on 9.  So that's not very good.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, I'm comfortable.  It's the driver that's not very good.  Hopefully tomorrow it'll be a little bit better.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT