NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2013
Edward Loar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Well played.
ED LOAR:   Thank you very much, guys.

Q.   Did you think you could scare him or were you just too far back?
ED LOAR:   Well, that's a long way to start, but with the way I got it going, you know, they were going to struggle, but certainly going to improve my paycheck quite a bit, which is nice. 

Q.   I mean he briefly ‑‑ he had that one bogey early. 
ED LOAR:   Yeah.

Q.   And he came back.   And you might have only been maybe three back at that point. 
ED LOAR:   Yeah.   That's about right.   You know, I mean this is an awesome golf course.   As I showed, you can shoot a good score, but as I showed yesterday, you can also ‑‑ it's not hard to shoot three or four over out here either.

Q.   Actually you were at two at one point.   You got to 7 and he fell to 9. 
ED LOAR:   Okay.

Q.   So what was the difference between yesterday and today?
ED LOAR:   It's golf.   Other than that, you know, I was able to get a few birdies early and kind of got a nice rhythm, and certainly that front nine was a lot of fun.
I hit it ‑‑ let's see, I made about a 20‑footer on the first hole and then the par‑5 I got up‑and‑down from the bunker and then the next par‑5 I hit it to about eight feet.   And then the next hole ‑‑ you know, they moved the tee up for us.   I drove it right up by the green and got it up‑and‑down.   And then I stuffed it in there about three feet on 8.   And actually I missed a short one for birdie on 9.   But anyway.

Q.   Can't have them all. 
ED LOAR:   No, you can't.   It's a crazy game, and it has a way of evening itself out.

Q.   What's the feeling when you've got ‑‑ when you're out here and you've got your card already, but I mean you are playing for positioning. 
ED LOAR:   Oh, that's huge.

Q.   You can free wheel it a little more?
ED LOAR:   Well, no.   I mean ‑‑ I mean I think anybody that understands really what's going on understands that the priority ranking is huge.   You know, certainly while I do have a card, I mean you know, two years ago when I had my card I started out 42nd, and I mean I know that wasn't any good. 
It's very important. 

Q.   Today was huge.
ED LOAR:   Absolutely.   Yeah, I got another chance in Sawgrass to move up, but certainly this oughta move me up a little bit.

Q.   Certainly into the top 20.   You were 10 at one point, but it's obviously ‑‑
ED LOAR:   Yeah.   I mean obviously the further you move down.   But yeah, I'm certainly moving in the right direction after the first week where I finished, what, 68th or 9th and I was at 46.   So I'm moving the right direction.

Q.   What year was that that you said you were 42?
ED LOAR:   It was 2012.

Q.   2012.   And you said you didn't get in until when?
ED LOAR:   I mean I played two out of the first seven, but I didn't make the cut. 
Shoot, I think I played 11 events out of here and maybe like 16 on the big TOUR. 

Q.   Conditions out here, I mean scorable, obviously?
ED LOAR:   Yeah.   They were awesome.   I mean this is ‑‑ I mean I'd go back to play a couple tournaments here in college, and ever since then, this is just a hell of a golf course. 
You know, the pins are very challenging.   You know, there's always a runoff and it never seems like your ball is falling to the hole.   It's always falling away from it.   But I was able to get some good looks at it and certainly hit my fair share of good shots.
There's just a lot of good golfers, too.   Somebody is always going to play good. 

Q.   Do you have any experience playing with Noh, or not?
ED LOAR:   Actually I played with him at Q‑School a couple of years ago, and I was very impressed.   You know, at that time he still looked a little raw, and I mean I make a lot of mistakes and if I can see a guy making mistakes, I know he makes a lot of mistakes.   But I mean beautiful golf swing.   He can hit it, for not a very big guy, he can just smash it.   He's a great player.   Obviously ‑‑ what is he, 21, 2? 

Q.   23. 
ED LOAR:   23?   Got a lot of golf ahead of him.

Q.   Somebody mentioned yesterday he was 118 in greens in regulation this year on tour but he's one this week. 
ED LOAR:   Doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure that out, does it, why he's probably at the top of the lowered board.

Q.   Good.   Thanks, Ed. 
ED LOAR:   You got it, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT