EUROCARD OPEN
October 27, 1999
Daniel Vacek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ATP:  Questions for Daniel.  
 

Q. That was a pretty impressive performance.  Is it the best you've played in a long time, do you think?
 
DANIEL VACEK:  Yeah, it was definitely one of the best matches I played.  
 

Q. You only got one set off him I think in four previous matches. 
 
DANIEL VACEK:  No, I don't think so. 
 

Q. I think it's 4-0 anyway. 
 
DANIEL VACEK:  Yes, he was leading 4-0, but I won more sets than that. 
 

Q. What specifically was it that you think you did differently today?  Is there anything you planned to do differently because of what happened?
 
DANIEL VACEK:  I think I managed to  -- I think I was a little bit stronger mentally today than he was, a little bit more pressure on his side than on my side this time.  I managed to play two good sets.  The previous matches we've played, I always managed to play one excellent set, and then I was either up a break in the other one or not.  Three times they were very close matches.  This time was the first time I managed to stay in the game for two sets. 
 

Q. When you say there was a little bit more mental pressure on him, are you talking about getting to Hannover?
 
DANIEL VACEK:  Yeah.  I think because the few players have passed him, and the points they're getting for the last two spots or three spots, it's getting very tough, very close.  He was a bit unlucky in Basel where he lost a very close match.  Now he's trying to get back.  It's not easy for him.  I can understand it.  Makes a huge difference, I guess, for him if he qualifies or not. 
 

Q. He obviously has some very good results, but also a lot of first-round losses.  Is he regarded by players like yourself as not a bad draw in the early stages of a tournament?
 
DANIEL VACEK:  You mean him?  
 

Q. Yes. 
 
DANIEL VACEK:  No.  He's one of the best players in the field.  He's been in the Top 10 for a few years now.  He's had excellent results.  From time to time everybody loses first round.  It's not that easy in all the matches.  If you look at the matches, they very, very close.  I mean, on Sunday I was match point down; I won in the third after three hours.  It shows the depth of men's tennis these days.  
 

Q. Isn't it possibly some surprise that he's not won a Super 9 yet?  Obviously, it's understandable not winning Grand Slams.  Few people win Grand Slams.  He's been knocking at the door, as you say, for quite a while, but hasn't quite taken the extra step with a big title. 
 
DANIEL VACEK:  I think my point is that he's improving every year, and the competition gets tougher.  From my own experience, as soon as you start to play very good, then the other players, they start paying attention to you.  If you lose a few matches, then everybody knows pretty much why you lost the match, so then you have to improve again.  If somebody stays where he is for that much time, it shows that he improved a lot over the last couple of years and that he plays very good tennis.  
 

Q. There's a pretty fair chance the next time you may meet will be in the Davis Cup in the Czech Republic. 
 
DANIEL VACEK:  That's possible.  It's February or something.  That's a long time.  I believe we play on clay.  We have a lot of good clay court players.  It will be captain's choice. 
 

Q. Do you know where that tie will be held yet?
 
DANIEL VACEK:  I don't think it will be in Prague.  They trying to find a stadium in some other city.  It's in the middle of the hockey season and basketball season, so it's not that easy to get a stadium for two weeks.  I don't know.  There are a few chances.  I think it's (name of a provincial town), which we've played Davis Cups there before, just not that far from Prague, 90 kilometers or something.  We'll see.  The decision hasn't been made yet. 
 

Q. How much interest do you think there will be in the tie?
 
DANIEL VACEK:  From our side or from yours?  
 

Q. There's always a lot from our side, but from your side. 
 
DANIEL VACEK:  From our side, we do our best.  The tennis at the moment in the Czech Republic is a little bit down because we have the hockey players on the top and the football players on the top.  Both teams, they haven't lost matches in a few years.  The tennis has a difficult position.  I just hope that if there are a few more players come out, then we get a few results, maybe it gets some more attention.  But at this moment, it's very, very difficult. 
 

Q. Presumably at home, although there are no Czech journalists here, this will be reflected as a good point towards the Davis Cup, even though it's a different surface?
 
DANIEL VACEK:  Oh, yeah, definitely.  Definitely.  I think the British players, because they so high, my opinion would be that they attract a lot of attention.  It may be very good turning point for our country, for our Federation.  I just hope so.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT