US OPEN
September 5, 1997
Yevgeny Kafelnikov
Daniel Vacek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Yevgeny, you're such a superior singles player. Do you ever have doubts about
playing doubles as well in tournaments? Are you very well adjusted to the dual event?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I'll tell you one thing, if I'm out of Top 50 for some reason, I'm
still playing tennis. I'm not going to stay to play just doubles. You know, no question, I
like to play tennis very much. But doubles not going to keep me on the court.

Q. After losing to Woodforde, is there any sort of measure, sort of, are you happy to
get this? That's the title that Woodforde expected to win?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: No question it's honor to win any Grand Slam. So we had two French
Opens. To have another one, which is US Open, is not bad. I'm very happy.

Q. You have formal commitment to playing with each other, and if so, for how long?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: We just agree to play, that's it. Whenever one of us still don't
want to play, we don't play. So I guess that's how commitment. But we do like to play big
tournaments like Grand Slams, Super 9's. Hopefully we'll continue to play successfully
like we did this summer in the next future.

Q. So both of you feel that if you're going to play doubles, you're the guy he calls
first and vice versa?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yeah, yeah.

Q. Any comments?

DANIEL VACEK: No, he's saying everything.

Q. You were down 2-Love both sets, yet you broke right back both times.

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Right. In double's match, it's really important to hold your serve.
If you're down a break, it's almost like the set is over. Fortunately, we were able to
break both times Bjorkman's serve. You know, I guess Jonas, he's concentrating more on his
singles semifinals tomorrow. Maybe I'm wrong, but felt like he didn't try too much effort.
He wanted to save energy, which is understandable. So that was a good thing for us.

Q. Of all the matches in this Championship, which was the most difficult?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: To lose to Woodforde in the second round of singles, that was very
difficult (laughter). 

Q. Have you followed the singles tournament since your departure or do you have any
interest in it, who will win?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Well, we're going to leave, unfortunately. We're not going to stay
and watch tomorrow's semifinal match.

Q. Yevgeny, how would you judge Daniel's game?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: How does he charge? I'm going to put it, plug in.

Q. Judge, judge. What do you like about him?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: We like to communicate first off the court. That's the most
important thing. Whatever happens on the court, it doesn't really matter. If we win, we
win. If we lose, not bad either. It's hard to find the right person around you these days
because, you know, you have to rely a hundred percent. You know, I feel like I can rely on
Daniel a hundred percent. So that's why we continue our partnership.

Q. This is to both of you. What do you like the most about playing on The Tour and what
don't you like so much?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Actually, we hate it (laughter). We hate both. Maybe Daniel has
different opinion. The most thing I don't like, to travel. That's the hardest thing for me
right now. 

Q. What about you, Daniel?

DANIEL VACEK: It's taking a lot of time over the year. That's very hard, to stay away
for 35 weeks a year, 40 weeks a year.

Q. Yevgeny, why do you think more top men's singles players don't play doubles?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Why? Because they cannot play doubles, that's why. That's the
simple answer.

Q. Are you saying that they would have to put much more time into becoming good doubles
players, and they don't want to take the time?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Exactly. You're exactly right.

Q. But you believe that doubles has helped your singles game, correct?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yeah. Otherwise I wouldn't be in the Top 10 for the last three
years.

Q. Can you expand on that? How has it helped your singles play?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I started to serve much better, I started to volley much better
through the doubles. And that was, you know, the important, very important aspect of the
singles game, serve and volley.

Q. Is there a language barrier between the two of you? What is your common language
when you communicate on the court?

YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: (Laughter) Well, as the highest single's ranked player, I choose
Russian, so we speak Russian. Whenever Daniel becomes a better singles player, we will
speak Czech.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT