ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 27, 2013
D.A. Points
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Third round of 70 for 12‑under.   Talk me through it. 
D.A. POINTS:   I kind of got off to a little bit of a slow start.   I missed some really makeable putts early.   The putter didn't feel as good as it has.   But I got it warmed up there in the middle of the round.   And really the wind was blowing pretty good, and I had trouble getting the ball close to the hole coming in.

Q.   For a couple of rounds now you've really seemed sharp with the driver giving yourself a lot of attempts at these greens. 
D.A. POINTS:   Yeah, that's kind of one of my strengths.   I don't hit it really far, but I generally hit it in play and in the fairway a lot.   I'm just trying to have boring golf.   Hit fairways, greens, and hopefully make some birdies.

Q.   Is that the plan for tomorrow too? 
D.A. POINTS:   Absolutely.   The course is still playing really fair.   Hopefully we can keep the rain away and then tomorrow it's going to take a low one out of me to get up there.

Q.   We're off a little early tomorrow because of the pending weather.   So glass of wine tonight or not? 
D.A. POINTS:   Maybe one with a friend who is in town, but it will be an early bedtime for me.

Q.   2‑under here on Saturday.   How pleased are with the effort? 
D.A. POINTS:   My effort was good, because I didn't have it today.   I wasn't firing on all cylinders.   I was hitting it pretty well, but the putter was a little shaky.   The wind was blowing there coming down the stretch, so it was hard to get it close to the hole. 
But only one bogey and then to make a couple birdies in the middle of the round there to kind of keep me hopefully in this thing.

Q.   Speaking of being in it, you're right there.   How much do you draw on what you accomplished a month ago and knowing what you can get done on Sunday? 
D.A. POINTS:   A lot.   This is kind of how it was in Houston where I was just kind of maybe didn't light it on fire on Saturday.   But I'm going to go try to get the putting back dialled in and hopefully tomorrow is a low one to maybe get on top. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT