DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2012
D.A. Points
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You ought to get more emotional out there, you know.   
D.A. POINTS:   Well, that's not hard for me.   It's on my sleeve.   You can see it all over my face.   It's just the way I've always been.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about that last shot?  
D.A. POINTS:   Yeah, I mean, I think I had 227 hole or something like that, and I was kind of in between a 3‑iron hybrid and a 2‑iron hybrid, and I just‑‑ with the wind into me and obviously some hazards short, I tried to hit a 2‑iron hybrid with a little cut, and it came out a little lower than I wanted, but it was on the line I was trying to hit and the shot I tried to hit.   It released out and almost went in.   I've never had an albatross, so it would have been really cool to make that double eagle, but I'll definitely settle for a foot and a half eagle putt.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the FedExCup?   You came in right on the wrong side of the No.70.   
D.A. POINTS:   Yeah, I've really had a good first half of the season and really struggled the second half.   It's nice to pick it up and play well these first two days.   But really, the FedExCup is major for us.   It's a big opportunity not only to make some great money but to finish in that top 30, gets you in all the majors and opens up a lot of doors.   That's really what it's about for me, getting back to Augusta and getting locked into all those majors so I can focus my attention on trying to win a major.  
   
 Q.   How satisfied are you right now?  
D.A. POINTS:   Well, very satisfied right now considering my past play of the last few months.   I've definitely hit it good this week, and I've putted fine, just haven't made a ton, and hopefully I'm saving it for these last two days, and go crazy.  
   
 Q.   You referred to the last couple months have been tough.   What's different?  
D.A. POINTS:   Nothing really.   I mean, golf is a game of ebbs and flows like everything, and I've been on a downward ebb for a while, a downward flow.   So I just had to be patient and keep grinding away and trying to find something that will spark some great play, and so far it's going all right.  
   
 Q.   You were playing with someone who's also playing well.   Is there any back and forth between the two of you?   Do you play off each other?  
D.A. POINTS:   I mean, it's certainly helpful to watch a guy like Charl get up and hit it 340 yards down the middle of every fairway and hit iron shots right at the flag.   It gives you a good visual for sure, but he's a nice man and we get along well.   For us it's just more‑‑ we're out there doing our thing.   We're not that concerned right now how he's playing or how I'm playing.   Maybe Sunday if we're paired together late, we might be a little more concerned.   But he's a good guy, and we have fun out there.  
   
 Q.   Especially when you finish off a round the way you did on 18, how much momentum does that give you?   Does it?   
D.A. POINTS:   I would like to think it gives me some momentum, but more importantly for me I played really solidly the first two days, lots of fairways, lots of greens.   I think I made a bogey each day, and both bogeys each day weren't bad shots.   It was kind of unfortunate breaks, wind and stuff like that.   I don't feel too bad.   If I can keep from making lots of bogeys, I'll be fine.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT