WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 5, 2012
D.A. Points
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Good news, blemish‑free 69.   You're tied for the lead.   I think I know where you're going, but you left at least five or six shots out there on the greens coming in.   
D.A. POINTS:   Yeah, I did.   I hit some good shots and gave myself some good chances at birdie (going after these interviews are over with), and when I did hit a good putt I didn't have the right line, and when I had a close, makeable one I'd make a lousy stroke, just a little lack in confidence.   But the good thing is I still haven't had that one really great putting round where I've made everything.   Maybe that can be tomorrow and I can still win this thing.  
   
 Q.   The last time at Pebble Beach you had Bill Murray as your partner to keep the pressure deflected from the moment.   What are you going to do tomorrow?  
D.A. POINTS:   I'm going to try to spend more time talking to the crowd, kind of like Bill would do and also talk to my wife and her family is here.   I'll try to distract myself in other ways.   Obviously I won't have Bill per se, but I'll try to maybe use some of that tactic.   
   
 Q.   I observed you for the better part of your round today, and it appeared that you were just having a great time out there today as you went around here in Charlotte.   
D.A. POINTS:   I did.   The fans were great.   Everybody is really encouraging and consoling, rooting me on, which is a great feeling.   That's what you want when you're out here.   I didn't make all the putts that I wanted to, but still, no bogeys.   I had a chip‑in.   I really didn't do a whole lot wrong other than miss a couple very makeable putts.   Hopefully more of the same tomorrow and we'll see how it plays out.  
   
 Q.   You're playing so well this week.   What has been the strength of your game to get you to this point?   
D.A. POINTS:   Driving, driving.   I mean, I kept it in play really well and then I've also hit a lot of greens and begin of myself some really good looks, so just keep doing the same.   I'm not going to change anything, I'm just going to go to the green and get comfortable with my putter and get some confidence with what I'm doing and good out there tomorrow and make some putts.  
   
 Q.   Give us some insight to the game plan to the final round.   
D.A. POINTS:   Very much the same.   My caddie and I have done a good job just trying to keep the ball on the proper side of the holes and make sure we're giving ourselves the best opportunity to hit it in the fairway.   And when I do that, it makes it easier.   I guess the theme for tomorrow would be low stress.   Try to keep it low stress, in the fairway, proper side, not grinding over five, six, seven, eight‑footers for par.   
   
 Q.   You're on the first page of the leaderboard but you're not as happy as one would think you'd be.   Why?  
D.A. POINTS:   I hit it great, and I missed a three‑footer for eagle, I missed a couple four‑, five‑, six‑footers for birdie, but again, I played the way I was supposed to play, didn't convert on the putts.   But still, no bogeys.   I said yesterday I wanted to shoot in the 60s and be right around the top three or four, and that's where I am, and I'm in good position.  
   
 Q.   What's easier to fix when there's a quick turnaround from one day to the next?  
D.A. POINTS:   I don't know.   I don't know if there's an easy‑‑ hopefully it's putting because that's what I need to fix.   But all in all, I think my putting stroke is fine.   It's just really getting the rhythm and the tempo and really just the confidence that I've got the right line and I can make a good stroke.   The mechanics and all that stuff itself are fine, it's just believing I'm doing it right.   
   
 Q.   There were actually some strokes you left out there.   
D.A. POINTS:   Without a doubt.   But I started off chipping in from a pretty brutal place on the first hole.   I chunked an iron shot and holed a really nice chip and got up‑and‑down from no‑man's land on No.2, so I started out kind of rocky but righted the ship and shot 3‑under on the front nine and was doing really good.   Missed a short birdie on 10 and another decent one at 12 and another decent one at 13 and another one at 14 and 15 and 17, 16.   It was just like every hole I had a great look, but I just couldn't get the darned thing to go in.   It's all right.   No bogeys, I'm still around the lead.   I've still got a great chance to win this golf tournament.   
   
 Q.   When you have a logjam like this at the top of the leaderboard, is it more about you and less about the other guys?  
D.A. POINTS:   Sure, because you can't control what anybody else is going to do.   Yeah, I missed some putts today, but I might make them all tomorrow and have a great round.   That's how this game is and you can't worry about anybody but yourself.  
   
 Q.   In your CBS interview you were talking about keeping it loose, talking to the fans.   Are you planning on keeping yourself distracted?  
D.A. POINTS:   Yeah, I gave a lot of high fives and a lot of knuckles today, and I'll do more of the same tomorrow because that's better for me.   If I start getting down on myself and getting frustrated if I hit a bad shot or miss some putts, it's just going to bury me.   That was one thing I did well today, and I'm going to try to do that more tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Satisfied with a good round, tied for the lead, and dissatisfied with the shots you left out there?  
D.A. POINTS:   I don't know if there is such a thing.   I mean, yeah, as a golfer I'm not very happy with the way I'm putting.   But if I focus on that instead of focusing on the 69 with no bogeys, my dinner is not going to taste very good, so I'm going to focus on the 69 with no bogeys and be excited about the position I'm in.  
   
 Q.   Before this week your track record had not been great about this place.   
D.A. POINTS:   Yeah, never played worth a darn here.   But it's still a great golf course.   I love the town.   My sister‑in‑law and her family live here, and I've got my wife's whole family up here.   It's really a great spot and a beautiful golf course and a wonderful club.  
   
 Q.   Is it just a matter of getting the number of rounds here to get used to it?  
D.A. POINTS:   Yeah, it also helps that I'm hitting it where I'm looking.   It helps that I'm hitting it where I am looking and controlling my ball well.   When you do that, for most of us, it doesn't really truly matter where you play.   If you're doing that stuff, you'll play pretty well.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT