WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2012
D.A. Points
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Do you want to just talk about your round today and the highlights? 
D.A. POINTS:   It was a crazy, crazy round.   I either chipped it from 40 yards away in no‑man's land or I missed two‑footers.   It's a crazy round.   I'm very fortunate to shoot 4‑under and be where I am.   I certainly left a few out there.   I hit a great shot on‑‑ probably my two best shots of the day, I chipped in on 6, pin was front right and I pulled it pin high left of the green and just hit a perfect chip and it rolled in like a putt.
Then 15 I hit a good drive and absolutely smoked a 3‑iron for me, 3‑iron hybrid, landed into the hill, popped up, landed about 18 feet and I made it for eagle.   Those are two kind of the big momentum changers for me, and then just really did what I did yesterday, hit a lot of fairways and hit a lot of greens. 

Q.   Talk about your mentality going into Saturday. 
D.A. POINTS:   Yeah, it feels great.   I'm a little anxious.   I'll be a little excited.   My wife just keeps telling me, you don't need to be leading this thing yet, you just need to be hanging around top 10, top 5, and I like where I am.   Again, shoot a few under par tomorrow, probably keep me in the hunt and set me up for a good one on Sunday.

Q.   How did this course play this afternoon?
D.A. POINTS:   Well, they're really firm and they're tough greens.   But the fairways are also firm and fast.   So if you make an aggressive play and hit a good drive down there, you can get a short enough club in your hand still, like I chipped a 9‑iron into 18.   On No.12, which the back pin today is a real hard pin, I hit a good driver down there and hit a 52‑degree wedge in.
If you can do stuff like that, it makes it a little easier and you give yourself some better opportunities. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
D.A. POINTS:   I settled down and again hit some good shots and made a couple good strokes on 14, 15 and 17.   You know, I'm going to go work on it right now, try to get it ironed out for tomorrow when I hit those good shots I'll be able to convert, and when I need to make a saving par putt here or there, I'll be able to convert. 

Q.   You were working on it during the round.   Your caddie was helping you trying to keep that left shoulder tight and it was opening up on you. 
D.A. POINTS:   Well, sometimes, yeah, and then the thing is then I hold it in too long and I shut the face down and I hit it left.   So it's a double‑edged sword.   It's just trying to get it married up just right, and sometimes I do that, my backswing gets long and my follow‑through gets short and then I start pulling it and doing all kinds of crazy stuff.
I know what I do wrong and I know how to do it correctly, I've just got to go learn how to do it correctly repetitively.

Q.   You're heading into tomorrow in great shape.   Obviously you must be very excited. 
D.A. POINTS:   Yeah, absolutely.   Like I said, I'm hitting it well, and the golf course is‑‑ I'm starting to feel more comfortable on it.   To have the 4‑under today after the start I had, being over par early and kind of messing around on the par‑5s, it's really nice to get it that far under par.

Q.   I'm one of the people who knows where Pekin, Illinois is.   Are they dancing in the streets in Pekin right now?
D.A. POINTS:   Not yet.   We've got 36 holes of golf left.   But hopefully I can give something to the guys back at Lick Creek and Pekin Country Club something to cheer about on the weekend.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT