WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 3, 2012
D.A. Points
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOHN BUSH:   D.A. Points joins us, one of our leaders right now at 6‑under par, 66 today.   D.A., great playing, just get your comments. 
D.A. POINTS:   Thanks.   It was ideal conditions on a beautiful golf course, and you know, not much wind to speak of.   Greens were still holding.   They were fresh and pure, and I just was fortunate to hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens and take advantage of the‑‑ if you want to call them easier holes out here.
JOHN BUSH:   Talk about your season and your expectations coming into this week. 
D.A. POINTS:   My season has just been kind of just barely better than fair.   I've had a couple good starts early on.   I haven't played poorly, just haven't had those great weeks where you're hitting it close and making putts and really challenging for a win.   But I missed the cut in New Orleans but didn't really play that poorly, just didn't really hole any putts, and went home to Orlando and met with my instructor Kevin Smeltz and got a good tip from him and kind of cleaned up some things with some of my shots, and I'm hitting it nicely. 

Q.   Anything today sort of get you going? 
D.A. POINTS:   You know what, I hit three great shots on 10 and missed an eight‑footer, and then 11 I hit a real nice drive right down the middle and a 122‑yard pitching wedge right at it and came up about 14 feet, 15 feet short, and I holed that, which was nice to see a putt go in from any distance.   And really from there, I just played real solid, not overly aggressive.   Hit a nice wedge shot on 14 to six feet and made it and hit it just left of the green on 15 in two and chipped it up to four feet and made it. 
You know, just kind of‑‑ I think the key for me today was that when I missed a green, I missed it in a good spot.   Whether it was below the hole or I was pitching somewhat uphill, which out here if you short‑side yourself downhill or something, it's almost impossible.   My caddie and I did a good job of kind of keeping it in the right spot. 

Q.   Are birdies out there for the taking, and is that unusual for this place?
D.A. POINTS:   I will say that it was playing a little bit easier than I've seen it.   Of course I've never played worth a darn here, so I've always thought it was playing hard. 
You know, yeah.   The fairways are running, so it's not playing super long.   Obviously the movement of 17 to the left tee makes that hole easier, makes it a way better hole.   But it makes it a little bit easier.   And today I hit 9‑iron to 16 feet, so I had a real good opportunity to make birdie there, whereas normally you're trying to hit some kind of crazy high cut shot off the water and hold it on a green that's running away from you. 
It's definitely a little bit out there for the taking. 

Q.   The tip you got from your instructor, is it something that the rest of us can understand?
D.A. POINTS:   Sure, yeah.   Really my tendency is to kind of come out of my angles or stand up through the shot, and he just said, try to feel like on your way down that your left backside, left part of your backside, is kind of going back and to the left a little more.   And when I do that, it helps me actually stay in my angle, and my lower body gets out of the way a little better.   I don't get those shots where I kind of come out of it and go underneath it and they flare off to the right.   For a guy that likes to cut it, it's better for me to stay in my angles and it makes it easier to cut.

Q.   Is that a quick fix for you?
D.A. POINTS:   Well, it's something that I probably needed to be working on for a while, we just hadn't pinpointed us, maybe just hadn't occurred to us.   So it's a good thought for me for a long time because I've definitely had the tendency to have my belt buckle kind of stand up through the shot and my arms get underneath and the ball goes out to the right, because I'm in fear of hitting it left. 
But we're doing this.   I feel good about not hitting it left and also staying in my shot.

Q.   Is it something you still have to tell yourself before every shot?
D.A. POINTS:   It's actually a‑‑ I try to rehearse it a little bit in my practice swing, and then I don't think about it.   I make a couple practice swings feeling the move and then line it up and go, and it kind of takes care of itself. 
JOHN BUSH:   D.A., thank you for coming by. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT