SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 14, 2012
D.A. Points
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   6‑under par 64 in that third round, big smile on your face.   Tell me about it. 
D.A. POINTS:   I finally hit some quality iron shots, and holed some putts.   I had been burning the edge for, whatever, the first six rounds of the year and today some dropped in finally. 
Didn't drive it as well as I did yesterday but all in all, you know, 6‑under is a good score out here. 

Q.   Last week you talked about attitude, "I've got to have fun," but you just weren't having a good time.   I saw the ball on 14 and looked out and I saw, "Please have" is what I saw on it.   What did it say?
D.A. POINTS:   "Please have fun."   I'm just trying to get into my head that if I have fun and don't get too worked up about missed shots or missed putts, my quality of life will be a lot better and I'll probably play better golf.

Q.   Talk about the round as a whole and like you said, you just made a few more putts; that made a difference today?
D.A. POINTS:   Yeah, I really, to be honest, I shot 6‑under with two 3‑putts.   So it could have been really good.
But I did hole a couple of nice putts early, and really, I just felt really relaxed and confident all day.   You know, I never got in a hurry and I never‑‑ never felt like my heart rate got too excited and everything was just pretty even keel.

Q.   Any particular shots that helped the round, saved the round? 
D.A. POINTS:   I made a‑‑ I just was blocked out on 16.   I was just barely in the rough and had no shot and tried to punch it in the trees and hit the tree and hit a really nice wedge shot to about 14 or 15 feet behind the hole and made it for par on 16, which was‑‑ you know, because I just birdied 15, and was kind of, you know, still going, and I knew I would have looks at 17 and 18.   And to make that par putt was pretty big, and then have a good birdie at 18. 

Q.   Moving day on Saturday, you want to make a nice move, did you envision you would be tied for the lead when your round ended? 
D.A. POINTS:   Not necessarily, no.   Like I said, the weather today is real nice.   There's some breeze, but pretty calm.   There will be some good scores this afternoon.

Q.   Decent finish last week on the island of Maui, a Top‑12 for you, and a field of winners only; coming over here, did you see something this low coming this quickly in the season?
D.A. POINTS:   Not necessarily.   At home I've been practicing a lot but not getting enough really good rounds in.   But last week was great because you can make lots of birdies, and it can get new that kind of under par frame of mind, which is important. 
This golf course can be kind of tough, but I've been thinking so much about trying to make birdies last week that it's carried over to this week.

Q.   You won on another golf course that's right by the ocean, I think a few people have heard of it, called Pebble Beach last year, your partner, Bill Murray, right before we sat down for the interview here, you got a text message.   Tell us about it. 
D.A. POINTS:   I texted Bill this morning, because we've texted back and forth and we've talked a lot but we've never really said, oh, yeah, I'll see you in February.   So finally I just said, I'd better just double‑check and make sure that we are still going to get to play together. 
He said, "Well, of course, I never thought we weren't."       Last year we played with two lovely ladies on Wednesday at Cypress Point and he said, "Well, they are ready for us again." 

Q.   Nice playing.   Just get some comments on your round?
D.A. POINTS:   Yeah, you know what, it was just real simple.   I was trying to keep things easy, try to hit it on the green and the fairway on the green, that kind of stuff.   I didn't drive it as well today but I hit it on the green a lot, and rolled in a couple of nice putts early, some 20‑, 25‑footers and also hit a few good wedge shots.
I did have two 3‑putts in the round so it could have been a really low one today.   I still holed some nice putts and played solid.

Q.   You talked to us last week about your new routine before rounds and for the year.   Just talk about that. 
D.A. POINTS:   Yeah, really I have hired a new trainer and I'm doing some more active warm‑ups before I actually starting to on the range, and then I really have broken it down by the minute to where I know that this time, I'm going to be on the putting green and do ten minutes of putting.   And then I'll go to the chipping green and do ten minutes of chipping and the driving range for 20 minutes of practice on the range and back to the putting green. 
So it's the same every single day, doesn't matter if it's the first round or the final round. 

Q.   You've been more free forming before? 
D.A. POINTS:   Yes, before, that I just kind of winged it and sometimes I would show up 30 minutes before my time; sometimes I would show up an hour and 20 minutes before my time.   And it always kind of bothered me and I just didn't really ever take the time.   I kind of procrastinated and kind of pushed it off. 
And this off‑season, I sat down with my sports psychologist and we hammered out a really finite routine and then I practiced it at home before I came over. 

Q.   So what did you expect coming in?   Having that kind of chance to get the rust off last week. 
D.A. POINTS:   You know, I just told Kelly Tilghman, playing over there was really a big advantage.   The golf courses are not at all similar; but you go over there and you try to make a lot of birdies. 
So when you come over here, you're still thinking, well, I'm out here to try to make a lot of birdies, and that kind of mine set, I think when you're playing well and shooting under par, even if it's not a lot under par, you kind of stay in that frame of mind and you just keep trying to make birdies and birdies and birdies.

Q.   So when you started today, obviously you made up a lot of ground.   Do you feel like you're going to be right there?   Do you feel like maybe some of the guys later are going to   ‑‑
D.A. POINTS:   A couple of guys later in the day will go lower.   I would not be surprised if somewhere in the 13, 14, 15 area could even be leading.   I know we are at 9 right now, but it's still early in the day.   Once the guys kind of get out there and get in a rhythm and get in a feel for the wind, that's when the scores will start getting lower. 

Q.   At least you gave yourself a fighting chance. 
D.A. POINTS:   That's all you can do.   Yesterday I played in the afternoon when it was really blowing, and kind of had an all‑over‑the‑place round, but finished with two birdies to get under par and got myself in good position today.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT