WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 4, 2011
D.A. Points
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Just talk about getting off to a fast start this morning. 
 D.A. POINTS: Yeah, with the birdie on 1, I just hit a perfect tee shot and then just a nice little wedge to, I think, 12 or 14 feet and made it, and that was a nice momentum starter. 
 And then 2 was the only real reachable par-5 out here obviously, and I hit an okay 3-wood in the front bunker but hit a really good bunker shot to like three feet and made that.
 A little bit of a loose drive on 3 and got a decent lie in the rough and got it on the green. And then 4, I made a really good up-and-down out of the left bunker.
 And then 5, again, kind of not my best tee shot or second shot, but hit a great bunker shot, and it came off a little funny. It came off higher but with a lot of spin and it landed right next to the hole and went right in. That was pleasant.
 And then I got up on the par-3, I think it was No. 6 or 7 and hit a really -- well, I guess 6 is maybe an uphill par-4, I don't know, I can't remember all the holes. But I hit another really good shot in there and made a really nice putt. So the putter was feeling really good. It was feast or famine in the long game. I either hit it exactly like I wanted to or I hit it nowhere near where I wanted to. Hopefully I can get that a little more consistent and keep the putter rolling the way that it is.

 Q. You described it as a scrappy round. What do you mean?
 D.A. POINTS: Well, because I was feast or famine. I had to make some up-and-downs. I holed the bunker shot and then chipped in, but then I three-putted 18. 
 Then I had a mud ball on 16 that went way off line, hit a cart path, went up into the stands, came back down out of the stands. I had to then try to just hit it over the green and get it up-and-down. So that's pretty scrappy when you've got to do that kind of stuff. 
 Then again, I hit some really nice shots and holed some good putts, so there was definitely some good things. 

 Q. Talk about your first round. 
 D.A. POINTS: I'm pleased with everything except for the stupid three-putt on the last hole. I just was unsure about the way the last putt was going to go, and I just didn't make a good stroke. But other than that, I'm on the right track. 

 Q. Just talk about the course. Have you played out here before?
 D.A. POINTS: This is my first time ever playing here in the tournament, and really these last three days have been the first time that I've ever seen it. I've watched it on TV, but it's kind of more of just I watch it and don't really soak it in as much as I should. It's a great golf course, it's just straight in front of you. The conditions are great. It's still soft, like I got a mud ball on 16, and I had a lot of dirty golf balls, not so many muddy ones, but a lot of golf balls that you stand there and look at and go, man, this could go way off line or go right where I wanted to. Fortunately today they flew pretty true.

 Q. When you got here, did you think the course fit your eye?
 D.A. POINTS: Kind of. It's good for me because I generally drive it pretty straight, and this is a course you need to drive it straight. Now, it's pretty long, so the soft conditions isn't really helping my length of approach shots, but it is helping me keep it in the fairway when I make a good swing at it, and that makes it easier. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT