MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2011
D.A. Points
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q. How did it go today?  
 D.A. POINTS: I played really solid the whole day. It's hard to get to some of these flags. You got only a few feet to keep it around the hole.   
 And then I didn't really -- I made one putt basically outside of four feet all day, so it was just a solid, even day.   
  
  Q. Obviously when the putt dropped at AT&T this was obviously one of the things that you wanted to do, how has it met or not met your expectations?  
 D.A. POINTS: Yeah, it's pretty close to met my expectations. I mean, it's also great that the weather's perfect and everything's so great, but, yeah, I never, having never been here, I didn't really have a whole lot of idea of what I was going to expect.   
 But after coming a few weeks ago I got a good idea and this is about what I expected right now. I'm sure it's only going to get a little faster and a little tighter every day, but it's very playable today for sure.   
  
  Q. How was that first tee ball? Were you nervous standing over it?  
 D.A. POINTS: No, I wasn't nervous. No, I was, it was the first time I ever hit 3-wood off the tee, so it was like -- I did that because I didn't want to bring the bunker into play and they moved the tee up a little bit from where we had played it before. So I hit an okay 3-wood and had 6-iron in, but made a good par and got off and running.  
  
  Q. Obviously being under par here is nice for the first day. But you have three more rounds to go. How do you approach it now?  
 D.A. POINTS: Well I was even today, so that was --  
  
  Q. Sorry about that.   
 D.A. POINTS: Yeah. I hit a bad tee shot on 18 and I hit a great wedge shot in there to three and a half feet and it broke the opposite direction of what it looked like it should, but anyway, so I made bogey and then shot even.   
 I would love to be under par, but I got an early time tomorrow, I can go out and throw up maybe a 4-, 5-, 6-, 7-under or something like that and get it to where these guys are leading and then go from there.   
  
  Q. I know you don't have a lot of experience with 18, but a lot of guys coming in have kind of had a little misstep there at the end. Is there anything in particular that's responsible?  
 D.A. POINTS: It's a long, hard hole. I mean, geez -- and the pin's all the way back in the right and the greens aren't quite firm enough yet to where you can land it in the middle of the green and it will run up there. So to get it up on top you got to be real aggressive. And then if you hit it over the green, it's a brutal up-and-down. It's a hard hole.   
  
  Q. Did you find the greens weren't firm, as firm like that throughout the golf course today?  
 D.A. POINTS: Yeah, they had however much rain on Tuesday and however much rain the weeks before, but I just think that as the week goes on they will dry out more and they will be firmer and faster and it will be pretty diabolical by the weekend.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT