WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2016
D.A. Points
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You had a couple chances for 59.  You end up shooting 7-under par.  You had to be maybe thinking, too, on the back-9?  
D.A. POINTS: I really wasn't.  I did a pretty good job of not thinking about that but I will say that, you know, I knew that I was tied for the lead or real close to the lead, and so like on 15, you know, I had a 3rd shot that was -- it was tough, it was either going to be short of that hill or probably going to be past the hole and I left it short of the hill and three-putted.   
Came right back on 16 with a great slot and great birdie, and 17 I hit good ones and 18, you know, I hit good shots and I just -- I just got a little bit excited on my last putt and missed it but, you know what, you know, I got a chance tomorrow and that's really all I can ask for and yesterday I think might have been the hardest round of golf I had to play in a long time knowing that, you know, if I didn't come through with a really clutch round on Friday, you know, there's a chance I might be missing the Web Finals and I didn't want that to happen, and I gutted it out and shot 4-under on the back-9 and then today it was like wow, kind of free-sailing in the front-9 felt like it.   
 Q.  197 when you came in this week.  Tough win.  You know the story here to get into the FedExCup Playoffs.  To put yourself in this position, however, what does that tell you about yourself and your game right now?  
D.A. POINTS: Well, more about myself.  You know, my game -- to be honest, my game is there, it's always there.  I haven't lost of my game, but just tells me a lot about myself and, you know, the heart that I feel like I have and it's good to have that.   
 Q.  Finally, for the guys going out right now, what are the conditions like?  Is it ripe for low numbers?  
D.A. POINTS: Well, I mean the golf course isn't long enough.  We have short enough clubs that it's always ripe for low numbers, but coming down the stretch, some of the pins on last few holes are pretty greasy.  They're on slopes, down grain and it's hard to get the ball -- if your putt doesn't go in there's a good chance it's going pretty far by.   
 Q.  Start by talking about your round today.  
D.A. POINTS: Yeah.  My round was really nice.  I did a lot of the same things I did yesterday, made -- I decided I'm going to go with 3-wood off most tees or hybrids, just get it in the fairway.   
The course isn't that long so I can still have some pretty shorter irons into the green, and I kept it in the right spot below the hole.  I did everything I was supposed to do.   
 Q.  18 tied for the lead.  Talk about finishing the way you did.  
D.A. POINTS: Well, you know, it's not how I wanted to finish.  I hit a great drive and good 8-iron.  Really hit my first putt like I wanted to.  Had a lot less break than I thought.  And then the next putt broke a lot more.  The one didn't break and the next one broke a lot.   
Disappointing but, hey, you know, I'm going to have a shot.  I don't know how far back I'll be but I'll be within shouting distance.   
 Q.  My next question, are you happy with the way you played, putting yourself in position for tomorrow?  
D.A. POINTS: You can't ask for anything other than that.  Right now I truly don't have anything to lose.  I'm so far back in the points it's not like oh, you know, just a solid finish will get me in.   
I have to play great and have great things happen and today I had great things happen.  Lot of times it's really hard to have great things happen two days in row so my expectations won't be too high tomorrow.  We'll see how it goes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT