AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 13, 2011
Bill Murray
D.A. Points
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. To have it happen here has to make very special? 
 D.A. POINTS: Pebble Babe may be the most iconic place in America to play golf and to win here is just a dream come true and I'm so grateful to have this opportunity.

 Q. The 14th hole is pivotal, last year for negative reasons, because a bunch of guys make nines and you hole your third shot for 3; take us through that. 
 D.A. POINTS: I was trying to lay it up to a good, full number and of course I didn't for about the 17th time today and just tried to hit a little gap wedge and just caught it barely thin but thought, oh, it has a little extra spin and will help keep it on the green and just caught the edge and trickled down and it's way one in a million. 

 Q. I have to give you partial credit for his victory because you helped him relax, and you win the Pro-Am finally. How does that make you feel?
 BILL MURRAY: Makes me feel better than all of the other which is nice. I knew the only chance D.A. had to win was if we could make it through the entire week without asking him what the initials D.A. stood for, and I didn't, and he's the champion.

 Q. You're a great host here, you're a great comedian and entertain the people beautifully but you work hard on your golf so this is a reward that you justly deserve. 
 BILL MURRAY: Thank you. That's nice of you to say. It's really fun to win. It's pretty easy to have fun here. I honestly didn't know what to do the last couple of holes. I felt like my mind and body left and I didn't know how to behave and that I should just behave poorly and couldn't get that together. 

 Q. Did he help you stay relaxed and cool? 
 D.A. POINTS: I think one of the pivotal parts was on 16, I was -- my caddie asked me, how do you feel and I said, not very good. And I stood over a long par putt and I hollered over at Bill like he had hollered at me a few times this week; the crowd would be happy if you could make that. That loosened me up and hit a great putt and almost went in. That helped. 

 Q. I suspect this might be a partnership for a few years ahead? 
 BILL MURRAY: Just thinking about turning professional, I probably won't because I have other responsibilities but it's really nice to play with a gentleman. He's a good person. He's from Illinois. He's very Lincolnesque in stature and always is unfailingly polite; and I feel comfortable, he's a nice guy, if he'll have me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT