FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 29, 2010
D.A. Points
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. D.A., 7-under 65, now you know this is supposed to be the harder course.   
 D.A. POINTS: Funny enough, I've played this course a lot more than I've played the other one, and I feel pretty comfortable out here. The main thing for this course is obviously just making putts and driving the fairway, and those are two things that I've done the last two rounds, especially today I made a lot of putts. Iron game isn't quite as sharp as I would love it to be, but certainly making putts is always a good way to make up for a little bit of a sloppy iron game.  
  
  Q. Five birdies, an eagle, but most importantly no bogeys.   
 D.A. POINTS: Yeah, I started out the day and I think I made like three six- or seven-footers in a row for par, and what it really did, though, was keep my confidence up on my putting, and once I started to hit a couple better iron shots, it turned into birdies.  
  
  Q. Talk about the eagle at 6.   
 D.A. POINTS: I hit a good drive, and I had 243 yards to the hole downwind, and it was a perfect 18-degree rescue club, and I just flushed it, and it flew about two yards past the hole. The course is obviously very receptive, and it stopped right away, and I had about 14 feet downhill breaking right to left pretty good, and I just kind of tried to cozy it down there, and I'll be darned, it went in.  
  
  Q. So you play the South Course now for the weekend, and you've got some pretty good vibes after this round?  
 D.A. POINTS: Yeah, it's a great golf course. This whole place is magnificent. I played here at the Open and had a great time then and just really glad to be back here and very fortunate to be where I am.   
 I played here in the Junior World twice, and then I played in the Open here, so I've spent more time playing this course than I've played the other one.  
  
  Q. How did you do in those Junior Worlds?  
 D.A. POINTS: My final year I finished tied for 7th, which would have qualified me to go to Japan, and like a stupid kid I didn't go to Japan, and I went and played in the Maxfli Junior PGA because it was on ESPN, and I thought it would be cool to be on TV rather than to have the experience of going to Japan, and I kind of regret that part.  
  
  Q. How did you finish here at the Open in '08?  
 D.A. POINTS: 40th or 50th or something. I played with Padraig Harrington the last round, and that was good experience. It was one of those deals where I started out pretty solid, and then on the weekend I think I shot like a 76, 77 or something like that.  
  
  Q. What would be a couple keys of your improved play?  
 D.A. POINTS: Putting number one. I switched to a SeeMore putter last year for the second round of the San Antonio Valero Texas Open and made some good putts, and then I finished third at the Byron Nelson and putted fantastic. Putting out here, I mean, if you can make putts, you can go a long way.   
 And in addition, just overall good management of my game. My short game just all around, chipping, pitching, putting, bunker play, it's all become just a little bit better.   
  
  Q. Did you think there was a 65 out there? That's a pretty low score for the South Course.   
 D.A. POINTS: You know, I did a really good job today of staying in the present. I never once thought about shooting 65 or 66 or whatever. I just kept trying to drive it in the fairway and make as good of iron swings as I could, and then try and make the putt when I had the opportunity.  
  
  Q. Certainly still a lot of people to come in, but good chance of being tied for the lead or in the final group on Saturday. What does that mean?  
 D.A. POINTS: Not a whole lot actually. I've been in the final group at least two times before, and I haven't played worth a darn. The way I'm looking at it is I'm trying to make as many birdies as I can so that -- I'm bound to make a bogey; this golf course is too hard. If I can make as many birdies as get out there at a good pace now, that will help cushion some of the eventual bogey here, bogey there.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT