HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2009
D.A. Points
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. I had you down for 13 greens, but what a round of putting, just 26 putts, including a nice birdie on the final hole.   
 D.A. POINTS: Yeah, I switched putters last week on Friday, and I had 23 putts. I didn't hit it very well, but I made a lot of good putts. It's a new SeeMore putter that -- I haven't putted with anything other than a Ping putter since like 2001, and I thought, well, I'll give it a try. It's just been rolling real nice. The greens are so perfect that if you can get it on line it's going to go in.  
  
  Q. What is it about the SeeMore that attracts you because that's a big difference going from a Ping to a SeeMore, and you know Zach Johnson switched to a SeeMore last week, as well.   
 D.A. POINTS: Well, Zach has been using a SeeMore and Vaughn Taylor, they've used them for a long time, and they've both been really great putters. It's just one of those things that for me it just makes me line it up the same way every time. Even if you think you're doing it with a standard putter, you maybe aren't, so this is something that's really helped me a lot.  
  
  Q. It would seem like it would take a while to trust that alignment but you seem to have adjusted.   
 D.A. POINTS: You know, it really didn't. I put it down, and it was fine.   
 I played solid. I did what I was supposed to do, hit it in the fairway and gave myself putts at it, and only one bogey out here is pretty good.   
  
  Q. Well, you're in good position to be playing late Sunday afternoon.   
 D.A. POINTS: Yeah, well, I'll take another one of those tomorrow and see how it falls.   
  
  Q. Let me ask you about your round today because your putter was just absolutely the key to your round.   
 D.A. POINTS: To be honest, I left some out there. I made a couple nice putts, but for most of them, I mean, I had a lot of good looks. It could have been pretty scary low today. But I'm certainly not going to complain or anything. I made a couple nice par saves. I chipped one in, little nice things like that that kind of keep your round going, and then to finish with a birdie there was nice.   
  
  Q. Was the course there for the taking?  
 D.A. POINTS: Absolutely. The pins were -- I don't want to say easy because they're never easy, but it seemed like I had a lot of wedges and 9-irons and sand wedges, pins with backstops, things like that. So you'll see other guys going low.  
  
  Q. What's it going to take tomorrow?  
 D.A. POINTS: I don't know. I'm going to try to shoot as many under as I can, and if I shot another 65 I'd feel real proud of myself.   
  
  Q. Two Top 10s this year. Do you feel you're ready?   
 D.A. POINTS: Yeah, I guess. You know, it's funny, I've won four times on the Nationwide, and not one of those weeks did I walk in going, oh, I'm going to win this week. You play, you think one shot at a time, and all of a sudden it either works out or it doesn't. I'm going to keep doing that, and if it works out, fantastic.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT