MICCOSUKEE CHAMPIONSHIP
October 26, 2008
D.A. Points
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK WILLIAMS: D.A., that was quite an amazing finish, holing out from the fairway. Just tell us about your round today and how you got to that point on 18.   
 D.A. POINTS: Well, I started out, the front nine is a good hard nine, and I started out with playing the first two holes really solid.   
 And then the third hole I laid back to a good yardage for a full lob wedge. I hit a 59-degree to about eight feet and made it.   
 And then on the next hole, No. 4, I hit a real nice 9-iron, just tugged it a little bit, and snuck in about a 30-footer. That was good to kind of keep some momentum going. The guys I was playing with were both starting off making some birdies, so it was key that I kind of held pace with them.  
 And then 5 is a reachable par-5, and I hit a nice drive and a 3-iron on the right fringe, pin high, and I hit my first putt to about two and a half feet, so I had a good lag putt and tapped that one in.  
 I went to 6 and hit kind of a weak tee shot in the right rough into a divot in the rough and hit an okay second shot, just short of the green, a good pitch that took kind of a violent kick left, and I had about a nine-footer for par. I was reading it to break -- I was trying to play it left edge and thinking it was going to break about a ball and a half, and it just rode dead straight and burned the edge. Still a good putt, but it was a bogey, and when you miss the fairway, that can happen.   
 And then I played really solid on 7, 8 and 9 -- 7, I guess, I hit a good hybrid, and then an average wedge to about 18 feet, but it was straight up the hill, dead straight putt, and I knew the read, and I rolled that in to kind of have a good bounce back after making bogey.  
 MARK WILLIAMS: When you got to the back nine, it looks like you made a couple bogeys, 12 and 14, and that would have been a bit of a turning point, too, because Matt Bettencourt made birdies at 13 and 14.   
 D.A. POINTS: Right. Really on 12, I drove it perfect, and I was just dead in between clubs, and you can't go over that green because of the way the pin was, and there's a back bunker that's real difficult, so I was trying to get a lot out of a 7-iron and I left it in the front bunker and hit a below-average bunker shot for me and a good putt that just didn't quite have enough pace.  
 Actually the next hole was real key for me, on 13. He chipped in, which was fantastic, but I drove it in the right rough and hit a real key shot over a tree and got it on the green and got away with another good par there, or else I could have gone even further back.  
 And then the bogey on 14, I drove it in the right rough and hit a good bunker shot and horseshoed a violent about eight-footer for par. And I had to laugh because I hit a great putt, and it did everything but go in the bottom.  
 MARK WILLIAMS: Then the highlight was the last hole, of course.  
 D.A. POINTS: Right. Then I get to 18 and I hit a perfect 18-degree hybrid right down the left side, had a great angle, straight downwind, and I had 125 yards to the hole, which was just a real solid gap wedge for me, 52-degree, and I hit it, and thank the Lord, it went right at it and went in.  
 MARK WILLIAMS: And Matt holed about a 12-, 15-footer to get you into a playoff or to join you in the playoff, so you went back to that first playoff hole and you almost drove it in the divot.  
 D.A. POINTS: Yeah, I hit it two yards ahead of the divot that I made the first go-around. I actually took my driver, went back a full driver length to get it close to that divot so I'd have about the same number and just tried to repeat the swing, and fortunately I hit it about four feet.  
 MARK WILLIAMS: And made it; here you are tournament winner, gone from 40th on the Money List to 15th, PGA TOUR next year. That's got to feel great.   
 D.A. POINTS: Again, it's a dream come true. I know that I feel like I belong out there and I know I can play well out there and win, and to have accomplished my goal and gotten back out there this year means everything in the world.  
 MARK WILLIAMS: Maybe the highlight was winning in front of your parents and your wife; that must have been huge.   
 D.A. POINTS: Yeah, I get choked up every time I think about it. My parents have been with me, watching me play golf for almost 31 years, and they've been there the whole time, encouraging words after good rounds and after bad rounds, and for them to be here this week and to have that kind of a finish and to win is super-important and super-exciting.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT