FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
May 25, 2006
D.A. Points
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOE CHEMYCZ:  Alright.  We'll, do this quickly.  DA points, 4 under par 68.  Your first trip here at FedEx St. Jude Classic.  Can you just talk about what you saw out there and a little bit about your game today.
D.A. POINTS:  Well, it was a lot windier than the previous three days and the course, it wasn't the same.  I played on the course Tuesday for the first time.  My caddie had been here before, which helped a little about bit.

All in all, it's an interesting golf course.  Sets up pretty good.  I kind work the ball a little bit both ways off the tee.  You really got to be heads up, hitting shots into the green and kind of play below the hole as best as you can because you're taking big first hops for sure, and then fortunately I made a few putts.  Started on 10, hit probably two of the best shots of the day.

I hit a really long 3 wood and a punch 9 iron to four and a half feet, that was a good start.  Good 2 putt on 11 and 12.  I hit it left off the tee.  Had a pretty good lie but didn't have very good yardage.  Hit it short left of the green and didn't get it up and down.

Then went on a little streak.  I hit three approach shots to 15 to 18 feet, and all of them were, you know, pretty straight.  Pretty straight putts and then fortunately hit them on line and made all three of them.

17, same kind of thing.  17 actually I hit a pretty good shot in there, and it was really just kind of feeling it with the putter.  I wasn't knocking the flag down outside of No. 10.

And then the front 9, I just hit it on the green and a bunch of    I made three actually huge up and downs.  No. 1, the wind laid down on my second shot and I hit it over the green, and that was the last place you wanted to be, and I made about a 12 footer for par there.  And then made a bunch of pars and went to No. 16    well, no, No. 7.

No. 7, I hit it perfectly in the fairway, and we were on the clock because we were playing slow or playing partners, had a couple lost balls, and I just kind of hurried a 9 iron from the fairway and hit the tree, short right of the green and got up and down from about 45 yards from the right rough.

I had to pitch it under the tree.  I hit it to like two feet.  It was a good shot, but it was also probably pretty lucky.  And then the next hole, 8, the wind gusted to the left and went long left and I chipped it up to about four feet.  Those three pars could have taken the momentum away from me.  Instead of they kind of gave me momentum to keep my round going.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Questions?
Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the wind and how much did it come into play.
D.A. POINTS:  It was some of the most important part of the conditions.  The greens being real firm, it was probably the second most important.  But you get up on like my shot on 8, my last look at the flag, I see the flag going straight into me.

And then I hit the shot, and by the time my ball is halfway to the green, it's blowing 20 miles an hour straight left, and all of a sudden my ball makes a U turn and goes long left of the green.

So, you know, it's kind of one of those things if it would have stayed long and straight, I probably have it at least in the middle of the green.  Because it switched.

It's just kind of timing stuff right, and I'm sure a few other holes probably helped us.  It's kind of managing that as best as you can and making some more safe plays, probably maybe than more gambling type plays.
Q.  Do you routinely play well in these conditions?
D.A. POINTS:  I grew up in Central Illinois where it's flat as a board.  It's basically cornfields around.  There wasn't a whole lot to block the wind and, you know, generally, I like to hit a lot of knockdown shots, fly the ball lower, which makes it more difficult here because with the greens being firm, you know, if you don't have much green to work with, you can't really afford to hit a knockdown because it's going to bounce and go either way past the hole or over the green.

It's going to take a lot of patience and some real creativity to work the ball into the hole landing it either well short of the pin or trying to float it into the wind, and hope it lands pretty soft.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Anybody else?  Alright.  Thanks for coming in.  Thanks.
D.A. POINTS:  Thanks, guys.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT