U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 1997
D.A. Points
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You were trying to make 18 pars?

D.A. POINTS:  Yeah.  Really, it was one of those things.  That was my gameplan.  It worked last year.  Hit it in the fairway, that's what I did on the first couple holes.  And I 3-putted No. 3.  I won 1 and 2, and I lost 3, and I lost 4. So, you know, right back, we were, you know, no one's leading after 4 holes.  And then we halved on the par 5, and I hit it on the middle of the green.  I did basically what I wanted there and just didn't quite get the putt to fall.  You know, and then 6 is that long par 3, I believe -- is that right?


Q.  Right.

D.A. POINTS:  And I hit a shot that I thought I made.  It was right all over the flag, and I made a good swing, and it came up and hit the lip of the bunker and jumped back in the track.  Then I hit a good bunker shot and made my  par, and he 3-putted so that got me back to one up.  And then I believe I won the next hole, and then I lost 8, and then halved 9 with bogeys.  And so it was one of those things where neither one of us were playing well at all.  But it was kind of an ugly match, and I happened, at the end, to make a par to his bogey.


Q.  You had a lot of trouble on 13?

D.A. POINTS:  Yeah.  I made a good bogey, if there is such a thing, but I just made a poor swing off the tee and pulled my drive.  Usually you try to hit it up the left side and let the hill bring it down, and I just pulled over it and got up there behind a tree and tried to hit a shot that put me up in front of the green, maybe I could get up-and-down, but it didn't really quite work out that way.  I hit it over in the trees, and then I hit it in the hazard, and I chipped it up and made about a 12-footer for bogey.


Q.  That almost went in on the fly?

D.A. POINTS:  Did it?  You know, obviously I couldn't even see where the flag was.  My caddie gave me somewhat of a line, and I hit it at it.  You know, I basically tried to get it around, just get it done, you know.  They always say you need one tough match, you know, before a bunch of good  ones.  So hopefully, this is my one bad one out of the way, and I can go ahead and prepare for tomorrow.  I don't know who I'm playing.


Q.  Go through the putt at 17, and that was kind of the key there, and then you got yourself back together?

D.A. POINTS:  Right.  On 17, it was a straight uphill putt, and I really didn't think that it was going to be that slow.  You know, sometimes when your opponent leaves himself a long putt for par, you know, you try to just get it close to the hole, and you maybe get a little aggressive or you just think, well, at the last minute, make sure you get it there.  I was trying to ease it up there, and it was a little slower than I planned, and then really I'd been making my 3-footers all day, and I felt confident.  It was a left center putt, just hit it in the middle, and I just kind of -- I just pulled it.  I mean, there's nothing else to it, I just pulled it.


Q.  What did you hit off the tee at 18?

D.A. POINTS:  I hit a 3-wood.  I've been hitting -- a 3-wood goes real far.  I mean, it's maybe 15 yards shorter than my driver sometimes.  Once I saw  him hit it over there, I thought, you know, I haven't been swinging great with my driver, so make a solid swing on my 3-wood and up in the fairway somewhere.


Q.  Could you see where his ball went?  Did you realize just the stance he had and where it was at; did you think it was in the bunker or what?

D.A. POINTS:  Second shot or off the tee?


Q.  You were at an angle?

D.A. POINTS:  Right.  No one could see really.  I was hoping I could get some idea because that road is kind of close over there.  You know, it couldn't come too far from maybe even catching that.  I was trying to figure out where I was, back up, you know, I have to -- you really have to concentrate on hitting it in the fairway and hitting it in the middle of the green.  I mean, I could have won this -- he could have won this match in 14 holes, and I could have won it in 14 holes.  It was one of those things where neither one of us played as well as we could, and I just grinded it out.


Q.  What did you have into 18, and what did you hit?

D.A. POINTS:  18, I had 191, and I hit a 6-iron 190 yards.  And I don't want to go over the  green because that's, you know, it's really fast, and I was, you know, kind of hoping to hit it in the right center or something.  I hit it right on my line and got a nice kick left and rolled down about 4, 4 1/2 feet from the hole.


Q.  Have you ever won a match like this where you went about 6 or 7 holes in the back 9 without hitting a fairway?

D.A. POINTS:  Yeah.  I think I hit three greens in the whole back 9, you know.  I hit 17 and 18, and then I think my other green that I hit was 10 and the par 5.  So I hit four greens, which is just -- I mean, my game, I usually average 13 to 14 greens around, and that's just -- you know, I wear them out on the greens with pars.  Today I couldn't quite execute, and that's why I'll be going to the range in a little bit.


Q.  Are you a good up-and-down player?

D.A. POINTS:  Today I was.


Q.  Is that normally your strength?

D.A. POINTS:  Well, I don't like to say that one part of my game is that much weaker, but I usually just hit it on the green.  So I don't have to get up-and-down too many times.


Q.  You missed the putt on 8 that you really got  a bum deal, you know, hit the hole and it comes back out at you?

D.A. POINTS:  Yeah.


Q.  You didn't miss any other putt other than 17?

D.A. POINTS:  No, not really.  Other than 17, I made some good strokes, and I putted well today.  I didn't, maybe, take advantage of some of my birdie opportunities.  But like you say, you know, a win is a win.  You'll take one up or 6 and 5.  It counts the same, really.


Q.  Was 16 a key hole for you to make par from where you were?

D.A. POINTS:  Yeah, 16 and 17 -- yeah, 16. And 14 was another big par for me because that kept it at even after I made a bogey on 13.  I made about a 13-footer, I believe, for par and that was huge.


Q.  You were behind a tree there at 16?

D.A. POINTS:  Yeah.  Well, I wasn't necessarily behind it.  I just had to hit it under it. It just clipped a few leaves, but it was, you know, it was -- I think if it wouldn't have hit the leaves, the outcome would have been about the same.

D.A. POINTS:  You know, I'm -- tomorrow, you know, really, I've got to -- I'm not really worried about my opponent tomorrow.  Either one of them are great players.  It's really -- I just have to go to the range, figure out what I was doing with my golf swing and try to get something together where I can play with it and just go back and really try to focus on my gameplan and hitting it in the fairway and on the green.


Q.  How much did experience help you -- having last year -- out there today, even though you're slagging the ball around?

D.A. POINTS:  I really think it helped a lot.  Because Charlie is a really nice guy and a good player, and I just kind of kept trying to think about what it was like last year, some of the big putts I made and how I needed to continue to make some big putts today, and I was fortunate to come through.


Q.  How did you happen to end up at U of I; can you give us that scenario?

D.A. POINTS:  Yeah.  Basically, you know, South Louisiana is kind of different from anywhere else in the country.  Just like, you know, maybe New England area is a little different and, you know, even the  Midwest is different compared to maybe out West, but I just didn't quite fit in, I don't believe.  Everybody was fairly nice to me, but I went there not knowing a soul and made some okay friends, but just nobody I could really relate to.  And, you know, I missed my family and friends, is basically what it came down to.


Q.  The Cajun wasn't very good?

D.A. POINTS:  No -- everybody said I picked up some little accent, but I don't know about that.


Q.  It's more of just a fitting in?  You think you fit in better at U of I?

D.A. POINTS:  Yeah.  I'm an hour and a half from home.  I'm 50 minutes from my golf pro.  I went from playing six months a year to one month a year. Now, I'm going back to playing about seven months a year, which is maybe a little more my speed.  I've been a big basketball fan and football fan.  I like to maybe take a little break that I really couldn't have at LSU because, you know, I thought that's what I wanted.  I thought I wanted to play 12 months a year in college, and that made my grades suffer.  It made my golf game suffer in the fact that I just went to the range and tried to work on things I didn't need to work on.  I started fiddling with my swing, and my swing was fine,  and I just kept causing more problems for myself.


Q.  Do you feel any pressure of being -- added pressure of any kind of being the hometown --

D.A. POINTS:  No, not at all.  As a matter of fact, I've been fortunate.  A lot of people have come out and pulled for me and watched me.  Starting next year at U of I, it will just make it nicer to have some familiar surroundings, you know.  You know, the last two years, I spent my birthday and Thanksgiving by myself.  I don't have to worry about that this year.


Q.  You'll be a senior, right?

D.A. POINTS:  Junior, third year.


Q.  Two years?

D.A. POINTS:  Two years' eligibility.


Q.  Who was out here today following you?

D.A. POINTS:  My mom, my aunt, my grandmother, my father, my girlfriend, and my girlfriend's husband -- not husband -- girlfriend's father.  There we go.  That makes more sense.


Q.  We're going to make sure she gets that transcript.

D.A. POINTS:  Yeah, right.  Thanks guys.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT