JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 8, 2015
Bill Murray
D.A. Points
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  BILL MURRAY: Does anyone have anything to say or are you all just documenting this for your spouses?  Does anyone want to speak?Q. Talk about the new experience.BILL MURRAY: There were a couple of moments where I was doing better, yeah, where I was more --D.A. POINTS: He always seems to play like the hardest holes really well.  For example, the 4th hole today, which is one of the stronger holes, he hit a 275-yard drive right down the right center, cutting the corner, and hit a 56-degree I think to four feet and made birdie.  You know, he's got a wonderful game.  I think if he could get to feeling a little -- if the left leg was a little better and you got to practice some, you'd play that way all the time.BILL MURRAY: These are options.D.A. POINTS: Those are options.Q. What did you think of the course, Bill?BILL MURRAY: I liked the course.  I liked it.  I it suited me.  I think I could tear it up some day.  I liked it very much.  The course is in great shape considering you got 71 inches of rain two days ago.  The greens are rolling nice.  The greens roll great.  It's pleasing to the eye.  It's gorgeous to have the river rolling alongside.  It's really nice.Q. What were your primary reasons for wanting to play here?BILL MURRAY: The cash.  (Laughter.)Q. D.A.'s mother says that you kind of help loosen him up, bring out a little comic in him.  What's the effort been like?BILL MURRAY: Well, this is a woman that's just been released saying these things, so I think his mother loosened him up quite a bit.  But in terms of playing out there in like a pro-am, you know, I think it's difficult for pros to go out there with amateurs who live and die with every shot. I mean, they start -- like their game becomes more important than yours when you're playing for money and your livelihood.  I have almost no brain matter left, so it doesn't matter to me one shot to the next.  I'm able to forget. I know there's enough pressure -- you know, it's like the guy said:  Have a couple of kids and realize how important that putt is, you know.  It means the difference between private school and the Coast Guard.  You just try to keep everyone relaxed.  We have a good relationship.Q. Bill, if it's important for athletes to have a little bit of fun while they're playing, why is it so important for you to get out and watch a lot of baseball, play a lot of golf, kind of get away from that comedy a little bit?BILL MURRAY: Because I'm an athlete.  (Laughter.)D.A. POINTS: You laugh, though.  He is so athletic.  He is.  When he hits the ball solid, it's flushed, and it sounds as good as me hitting one or Tiger Woods hitting one.  When he hits one good, it's purely flushed, and it's -- he's got a lot of really natural athleticism and is a very good athlete.Q. You posed for that shot on 4 like you liked that wedge.  Do you always pose like that on good shots?BILL MURRAY: Well, I didn't want anyone to forget that shot.Q. And you made the putt, too.BILL MURRAY: I did make the putt, yeah.Q. You almost got taken out by your own clubs on the fifth hole.BILL MURRAY: Well, that was my caddie/driver/bodyguard, who went under the ropes.  We cleared the ropes in the cart, but the golf clubs did not, and they sort of boomeranged and whipped.  It could have been a decapitation, but instead we're just so happy to be here having some bottled water.Q. That would have been a great scene for "Caddyshack."BILL MURRAY: You sound like the guy who wrote "Caddyshack 2."  (Laughter.)Q. You've got relationships, you've got family here.  How many years have you been familiar with this area and what was the attraction particularly to play here?BILL MURRAY: I think I was nine when I first came here, so that's -- I don't know how long ago.  Maybe I was 10.  So that's how long I've been coming here.  I remember the Mississippi River, and like there was a big flood and snakes came out of the river and all my cousins were shooting snakes with B.B. guns.  That's what I remember.  So watch it.Q. Clair told me that he spent the first five years of his career riding you to come to the Classic.  Do you remember that, and why now so many years later?BILL MURRAY: Clair's grammar has improved a great deal.  You know, and the sentence structures are really promising. No, I always intended to come, and I don't know who it was, but a long time ago, almost 30 years ago, a fellow sent me an autographed baseball of the Cubs and said, you don't have to say thanks or anything.  I think it was the '45 Cubs.  You don't have to say anything, just sometime come and play in the Quad City Open.  I said, okay, well, I've got to do that.  It was always something, but I'm not as organized as I intend to be in the future. So I knew I was going to come, it was just a matter of the time to come, and this was really the time to come.  Going to the Dig was really supreme.  That's really a lot of fun.  I heard about the Dig years and years ago and wanted to go.  It was great. But meeting D.A. and becoming partners, playing partners a couple years ago, the fact that we're both Illinois guys and we're a local hire, and they say in the business, so we're sort of local, and you know, it's a tournament that I think would be great if D.A. would lay off the hard stuff this week and just stick to beer and wine and maybe win this tournament, I think it would be great.  There's a lot of great players up on that wall, and he should be up there.AMANDA HERRINGTON: Thank you, guys, so much.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT