WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2014
D.A. Points
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.     D.A., very strong finish.   You played the back-9 first so you completed your round on the front-9.   But, 7, 8 and 9, you rolled in 3 birdies.  
D.A. POINTS:   The back-9 is probably the harder of the two 9s.   Getting out there and kind of getting under par on that harder of the two 9s helps and then to finish on 7, 8, 9.   
7 is not necessarily a birdie hole but I made about a 25-footer and 8, 9 are birdie holes if you drive it in the fairway.   I hit a couple nice approaches and were able to convert on the putts.  
   
 Q.   How about the ball striking through the two rounds?  
D.A. POINTS:   You know what, it's been good.   I woke up this morning, my low back was completely locked up, my sacrum was in bad position and I had to get it last minute adjustment.   I was real stiff and after taking couple Aleve and kind of walking around, getting loose, I finally loosened up and played great the last 12 holes.  
   
 Q.   Feel like everything is going to hold up for the weekend?  
D.A. POINTS:   I'm getting some more treatment and make sure I'm all right.   Getting old and a lot of tournaments this year.   I've been out here awhile.   I've been playing a lot of golf.   It happens.  
   
 Q.   Properly adjusted and ready to go at the Wyndham Championship?  
D.A. POINTS:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Nice round for you, got yourself in contention for this weekend to come away with this championship.   Talk about your round.  
D.A. POINTS:   I played good.   Started out a little -- it was a little sketchy early, not hitting it great.   Back was tight.   
But finally started to loosen up and I was able to make a nice putt on I guess the 13th hole which got me back to even par and kind of settled me down and then I played really nice, really from then on in and to birdie the last 3 to really kind of move me up the leaderboard and keep me in the hunt more than just making the cut, it's giving me a chance to win the Wyndham tournament.  
   
 Q.   Seemed like you were fired up coming up the 8th green and you were trying to get the crowd into it, too.  
D.A. POINTS:   I hit a 9-iron right at the flag, about 20 feet short of the hole and they acted like I hit it over the green, out of bounds.   Nobody moved or did anything.   
I thought gosh, it must not be very good.   It was a nice shot.   Looked like yeah, that's kind of the way it's supposed to go.   I hit a nice shot and then you know, it was a tricky double breaking putt and I thought I left it just barely short but had just enough on it to reach the hole and go in.  
   
 Q.   Just to let you know, I let them know you guys got to clap it up for him.   Good round today.   Thank you very much.  
D.A. POINTS:   Thank you.  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT