THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 3, 2014
D.A. Points
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   D.A., off to a good start.   5‑under 65.   Tell us how you played today.  
D.A. POINTS:   You know, I hit my irons nicely, and whenever I had a putt it seems like 10 feet or so, I made it.   
And you know, I got a little loose at the end, but was able to kind of hang in there.   And I had a tough two‑putt on the last and gave one back, but still, I haven't had a good round in a while.   So this feels good.  
   
 Q.   I was going to say I was looking at how things have gone for you this year, and it hasn't been really good.   I think you were 31st at Travelers a couple of weeks ago, so maybe something coming up there?  
D.A. POINTS:   No.   I missed the cut.   So, but you know, I haven't‑‑ it's not like I've been shooting 80 every week.   It's just been even par, one over, 1‑under or just missing the cut by one or two.   And haven't been getting the most out of my round, and today I can say I got the most out of my round.  
   
 Q.   All right.   What about the conditions out there because we had that rain yesterday afternoon.   It was soft yesterday.   What about today?  
D.A. POINTS:   Yeah, it was still soft today, but it was very playable.   You know, I had a couple mud balls, but not fortunately that got me into too much trouble.  
But the greens are super receptive, and if they don't get too spiky this afternoon there will be some low scores again.  
   
 Q.   If you could, just talk about how the golf course played and your thoughts overall.  
D.A. POINTS:   Yeah.   The course was very nice.   I mean it was in good condition.   I mean it was soft, but it wasn't abnormally soft with the little pit of precipitation that we've had, and the humidity has been high.   
So I think it's in great condition, beautiful.   The areas around the bunkers are tough, and you know, but the greens are rolling nice.   I think everything's very fair.  
   
 Q.   And then what do you have to do to keep this going the rest of the week?  
D.A. POINTS:   Well, for me I have to drive it a little bit better, if I can continue to putt well inside of 10 feet that's a big fact or for everybody, but me in particular.   So if I can keep that up, which I feel good about, I think I'll have a good week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT