NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 1, 2002
Mats Sundin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  How are you feeling about being here?

MATS SUNDIN:  I think this is my seventh.  It's fun.  I enjoy it every time.  It's a great honor to be picked to start.  It's a big honor.  It's an Olympic year.  The All-Star Game, it's an All-Star Game, it's a fun weekend.  You know, the, it's a good time.


Q.  Is it still a break?  Obviously, you're playing hockey, it's still a break mentally more than anything, isn't it? 

MATS SUNDIN:  Yeah.  It is a break.  Break from the daily routine.  Toronto right now has a pile of snow.  Get a little bit of sun and be in LA.  It's going to be a fun weekend.


Q.  Any side bets?  Do you tease the guys on the North American squad?

MATS SUNDIN:  We'll see how it starts.  Usually it's pretty friendly until halfway through the game, then it's a close game usually, the intensity picks up.  I'm sure it will be. 


Q.  Have you decided who you'll give the vehicle to if you're able to win?

MATS SUNDIN:  No, I haven't even thought about that (laughter). 


Q.  A lot of guys are thinking this is the calm before the storm, before it really gets serious?

MATS SUNDIN:  It's a good break.  In the midst of everybody trying to secure a playoff spot obviously with their club teams, this is a nice break.  Some guys are going on vacation.  The guys that get an opportunity to go to the All-Star Game, it's a break as well.  It's a fun week.  A lot of events going on.  We're here for a couple hours, then have a few hours to ourselves. 


Q.  Talk about the Olympics coming up in two weeks. 

MATS SUNDIN:  In a couple weeks, it's going to be more serious.  It is a nice break to have some fun with the game, be with the fans.


Q.  Who do you pick in Salt Lake?

MATS SUNDIN:  I always think Canada looks good on paper.  A lot of interesting teams.  The Czechs.  The US will have a good team, on home ice.  The Russians have a great team.  A lot of teams have a chance


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT