NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 17, 1998
Mats Sundin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MATS SUNDIN:  I think especially when there's a one-game tournament, semifinal, quarterfinal, I think we have a good enough chance to do it.


Q.  A lot of people focus on the U.S. and Canada.  A lot of people forget the World Cup.  You guys came (inaudible) knocking Canada out.  What do you think about people being so focused on Canada and the United States.

MATS SUNDIN:  I don't think the Swedish team minds being an underdog.  I think it's good.  I think if you look (inaudible), the U.S. has the strongest team.  Going into the tournament, there's a couple more teams that have a chance.  I think we know we have a good chance.  We have to play our best hockey, and having a good night, we could beat them.


Q.  Have you seen any TV shows or news clips from back home?

MATS SUNDIN:  On the Olympics?


Q.  Yes. 

MATS SUNDIN:  I haven't seen a lot.


Q.  Some of the American players are saying Sweden are the defenders.  Do you take that out there with you?

MATS SUNDIN:  Yeah, obviously.  We are the defending champions.  The U.S. team and the Canadian team are going to be the favorites.  It's going to be a totally different tournament when you have all the professional players here.


Q.  Mats, there's always talk that changing format might bring some intensity to this All-Star Game.  Your feeling as a player?

MATS SUNDIN:  I think it's going to be better.  I think it would be great if the World team got the lead with a couple of goals.  I think that would be good, to get the North Americans a little pissed off, we'll get a good game.  I think it's going to be a little better than it's been.


Q.  Will it take the odd check in or will it take the two goals, like you say?

MATS SUNDIN:  I think it's going -- I don't think you're going to see a physical game, looking like a playoff game.  I'm sure the intensity and the pace is going to be better hopefully than it's been.


Q.  Let's talk about the Olympics.  All we hear is Canada/U.S.A.  Your thoughts on that? 

MATS SUNDIN:  We sure wish we're going to be in the gold medal game.  The U.S. and Canadian team are obviously the favorites.  I think Sweden, Russia, Czechs, maybe the Finns have a shot.  It's a one-game tournament where you play a one-game final.  Anything can happen.  I'm sure if we have a good night, we can beat both those teams.


Q.  With professionals playing in their first Olympic Games, obviously it's special, but what do you think of the talent level over there?  Is this going to be a tournament like we've never seen before?

MATS SUNDIN:  I think so.  I think you can look at the format, being in the Olympics.  You look at the teams that the countries are bringing.  Obviously, it's going to be the best hockey tournament.


Q.  50 all-time greats.  Were there any names you thought should have been added to there?

MATS SUNDIN:  I would have liked to have seen Kent Nilsson?  I think the names that are in there deserve to be there.


Q.  What's the best thing about going to the Olympics?

MATS SUNDIN:  I think for myself, going to the Olympic Games, just to go up there and be a part of it, participate in the Olympic Games is probably the best thing.


Q.  What's the worst? 

MATS SUNDIN:  It's the travel, no doubt about it. I think any athlete, hockey, whatever you do, just to be in the Olympic Games is something you dream about.  It's going to be great.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT