SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 30, 2016
Luke List
Chris Kirk
Cody Gribble
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LUKE LIST: I've been playing well for the last couple months, so to get a good solid finish, my best finish ever, really does do some confidence, so I'm excited to keep going the next couple weeks.   
 Q.  Chris, you've led the tournament in putting coming into this final round.  I saw a lot of good strokes, and the ball just didn't find the cup a lot of times.  
CHRIS KIRK: Yeah, it just wasn't my day today.  I didn't play bad necessarily, but just was just a fraction off and wasn't quite hitting my iron shots as close as I did yesterday, but I was hitting good putts and just kind of -- my speed was -- I was hitting some putts, instead of having perfect speed like I was having the last few days, I kept hitting them two and a half, three feet by, and I guess I'd rather do that than leave them short.  I was really trying to press a little bit and stay aggressive and make a bunch of birdies, and I only made two, so it didn't really work.   
 Q.  A lot of confidence, a lot of momentum as we head into the off-season for you.  
CHRIS KIRK: Yeah, I feel good about my game right now.  I'm excited to play the next three weeks.  I'm going to play the next three that we have, Vegas, México and RSM.  Feels almost like a home game for me down there at Sea Island, so I'm excited, and hopefully keep it rolling here.   
 Q.  It was unlikely that Cody Gribble would win the Sanderson Farms Championship after a 73 to start.  You had a talk with your coach Randy Smith.  What all went into making some adjustments that allowed you to be the winner here today?  
CODY GRIBBLE: Nothing really major, and I know going into the week, or starting Thursday I would say, I was just swinging fast.  I have a tendency to be a little quick.  But I tried to settle down, and really other than that, just tried to eliminate the mistakes.  I was making some dumb, immature errors that I'd say I guess a rookie would make, but even as poorly as I was hitting it, if I could just continue to play smart, conservatively aggressive, I'd be all right.   
 Q.  You were No. 1 in strokes gained putting this week, and your putter obviously caught fire there on the back nine.  For you, what does it feel like to be able to perform under that kind of pressure and getting your first win on the back nine like you did.  
CODY GRIBBLE: Yeah, it's a great feeling.  I'd say I've been -- over the past few years, I've been pretty streaky with my putter, and I think in Columbus, really in the Web finals event, I kind of found something, just a little forward press and slows down the motion a little bit, slowed down the stroke, and it's really continued into Napa and even into this week.   
 Q.  You've won in big moments including the NCAA championship with Texas in 2012.  How is this different, an individual victory like this?  
CHRIS KIRK: It's a lot different.  I can't remember the last time -- it's been a while, I had never won in college.  I've been close.  I was close this year in Evansville, but it feels good.  It feels good.  It's been a while since I've had an individual win.  It's been a long time.  It's good to get that win under my belt.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT