THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2021
Chris Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Phenomenal round of golf, walk me through the middle of it because, man, what a heater that was.  Did you have a protein bar or something on 15?
 CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, I wish I had some revelation of something that I changed and all of a sudden sparked this incredible play, but no, I didn't change anything.  I feel like I've been playing very well lately.  I feel confident in my game.  Yeah, I just kind of was treading water -- yesterday especially late in the round was a little bit strange, you know, starting a round on a beautiful day and knowing that you've got no chance of getting done, just is what it is.  And then I came out this morning and hit a few solid shots early on and felt like I was playing all right and had a few really good birdie chances that I didn't make early on in the round.  I knew I was hitting good shots, was hitting good putts, and then, yeah, all of a sudden I chipped that ball in on 15, and before I knew it I was 5-under, 6-under, whatever.
 Yeah, that was a very pleasant surprise for sure.
 Q. You said everything has been working from a putting standpoint.  We have you actually losing a shot in strokes gained putting today.  That's a good thing to lean on, that you can shoot 65 out here -- I know the putt on 8 was good to get this thing in, but to have that kind of a ball-striking day around here was fantastic.
 CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, it's certainly a fun day for sure.  The swing felt great.  I don't really care what the stats say about my putting.  I judge myself with my putting on, did I hit my start lines well and was my speed good, and I would give myself a yes for both of those today.  I definitely have had a little bit of trouble reading the greens the last few days, and I think that may have something to do with them being a slightly different surface from when I've played over however many years here, and I'll also be the first to admit that I would say I'm a fantastic green reader on bent and on Bermuda greens, and I am a not-as-good green reader on poa annua and overseeded Bermuda.
 I felt like I rolled the ball well, I just don't know what it is, it's just kind of always been that way in my career where I don't quite see them as good.  Towards the end of the round Michael Cromie, my caddie, who's one of my best friends and a very good player in his own right, plays professional golf also, used him a little bit more, and I would say I will most likely continue to use him a little bit more and more over the weekend.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT