WGC DELL MATCH PLAY
March 26, 2016
Chris Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You made your way into the last day.  What's been the difference this year?  
CHRIS KIRK: Just played well.  Every part of my game feels pretty solid.  I've driven the ball well and hit some good iron shots and made some good putts.   
 Q.  How good is the feeling making this putt?  
CHRIS KIRK: That was a great putt up that ridge.  Actually hit a good second shot.  Played that hole really well.   
 Q.  You haven't been in the best of form until last week when you finished 12th at the Arnold Palmer.  Has something clicked in the game?  
CHRIS KIRK: Yes, it's felt good for a while to be honest with you, for the last few months, and just haven't gotten the results.  I think I'm getting more comfortable with everything, and more comfortable with where the ball is going.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
CHRIS KIRK: I don't really watch the rankings too much.  It's not something I can control a whole lot.  But I'm just happy to be playing good golf.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
CHRIS KIRK: I did.  I hit a lot of nice irons, too.  I've kind of gone back to try and draw the ball more.  I've always drawn the ball, I used to hit a big swing hook when I was younger.  The better my swing has gotten and the more I've played, everything has gotten fundamentally better.  Once I started hitting it really straight it was harder to play.  I didn't know exactly which way it was going to curve every time.  So now I feel like I'm a bowler, throw it up the right side and bring it back, and hopefully I can keep swinging the way I have been.  It's been working nice with the firm fairways, hitting a little tumbling draw, it's going a little further than I'm used to.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
CHRIS KIRK: No, I didn't.  I got a little frustrated with my game.  I didn't play great.  I think I was somewhere around even par or so.  And Russell played good.  He definitely made the putts that he needed to make to beat me that day.  But, yeah, it wasn't as if I went out and had a horrible day or anything.  Thankfully I was able to bounce back and played really great yesterday and today.   
 Q.  You're okay with the format?  
CHRIS KIRK: It's nice.  I'm thankful that I got a second chance, that's for sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT