WGC DELL MATCH PLAY
March 23, 2016
Chris Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHRIS KIRK: I struck the ball really well today.  It's important when it's as windy as it is, to just hit the ball into the face all day, and thankfully I did.  A hot start and played steady from there on.
Q. I know how good you can be.  You're healthy and you're getting used to the new irons and the clubs.  Is everything coming together about this time?
CHRIS KIRK: Yeah, I hope so.  I felt like I played really well last week.  My results could have been a little better maybe but I put together four pretty solid rounds of golf, which was a boost to me.  My swing feels good, my strength feels good.  Everything felt good for a while, I just wasn't getting the results.  Hopefully I can build a little momentum.
Q. When you look at who you're going to play, and you see where Branden is ranked 11th in the world, you've been around a long time, but does that get you a little motivated when you see something like that?
CHRIS KIRK: Yeah, I don't know.  In match play you just try to play like stroke play.  I kind of ignore the guy I'm playing against.  Obviously I know I have to play really well.  Branden is a great player in match play.  I knew I had to come out and play real solid.
Q. And the first day getting wind here is huge, isn't it?
CHRIS KIRK: Yeah.  It's not quite like it was a few years ago, but definitely makes you feel a lot better about it the next couple of days.
Q. You probably haven't played match play since you joined the PGA Tour, I imagine?
CHRIS KIRK: Yes, it's the third time playing this tournament.  But other than that, yeah, you definitely don't play it much.  When you think I played a couple of Palmer Cups and a Walker Cup when I was in college.  But like I said, I really just try to play the golf course, just like I would play it and just don't worry about what the other guy is doing.  I'm never going to change my strategy.  My strategy on every hole is to try to make the lowest score I can.  I'm not going to do anything based on what the other guy is doing, anyway.
Q. You play a lot of the same golf courses week in and week out.  Is it fun to play a little bit different track where even course knowledge isn't maybe that important, because nobody really knows the golf course?
CHRIS KIRK: Yeah, absolutely.  It's a fun golf course to play.  You kind of have some crazy shots out here with the conditions, with as much wind we're having and how firm they are.  I looked down in my yardage book and I hit a 385-yard drive or something like that, that's a hundred yards further than I actually hit the ball.  So it's fun.  You have to be very creative on this golf course, I think.  And I definitely enjoy that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT