WGC DELL MATCH PLAY
March 25, 2016
Chris Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Well, survived a playoff and advancing to Day 4.  Just some general thoughts?  
CHRIS KIRK: Yeah, really happy with the way I hit the ball the last three days.  I feel like I've been making some progress over the last few months in my game.  And the past ten months or so coming off an injury.  I feel good about my swing and putting stroke and everything.  Hopefully I can keep some momentum going the next few days.   
 Q.  So far how do you like the golf course?  
CHRIS KIRK: I like it a lot.  It's in unbelievable shape, that's for sure.  It definitely makes us think a lot more than we're used to, especially with the wind changes that we've had.  It's basically three different winds we've had in three days.  So playing a course that you're unfamiliar with, you spend a lot of time standing around the tee, looking at your yardage book scratching your head, trying to figure out what club to hit with how far the ball goes downwind here, especially.   
 Q.  You already beat Branden the first round, did you feel like you should have to go out and play him again for the right to advance?  
CHRIS KIRK: Absolutely.  I think they nailed the format this year.  I think it makes perfect sense.  The fact that I beat him doesn't really matter.  I won two matches and lost one.  He won two matches and lost one.  So because one of my wins happened to be against him, that doesn't really matter.  And that was two days ago, anyways.  So I think it's good the way they've got it.   
 Q.  What's the hardest part about waiting two hours when you're fresh off the course and ready to go?  
CHRIS KIRK: It really wasn't that bad.  I just kind of went inside, had a little bit of lunch, hung out with my wife a little bit.  I watched a little bit of the coverage here and there and then just went back out and went through my routine again, just like I was going to go play another round.  It wasn't that big of a deal, I guess.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT