THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 11, 2015
Chris Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
-   
 Q.  A rare show of emotion from Chris Kirk, but before that, you were standing over the putt.  What were you thinking about?  
CHRIS KIRK: Purely just thinking, make it for the halve.  Obviously didn't expect Anirban to unfortunately miss that putt.  Hate to see that.  Just trying to hit it like any other putt, hit the line and roll it in.   
 Q.  You do not show emotion very often.  What was that all about?  
CHRIS KIRK: I do know where that came from.  These team events are different but yeah, that was for everybody who has never seen me fist pump before.   
 Q.  It was pretty close out there.  
CHRIS KIRK: Yeah, I got 1-up on No. 3 and then he kind of gave me a gift on No. 11.  Unfortunately I gave it right back to him and made a double on 12.   
So 1-up after that, and then he made a really nice putt for birdie on 14.  But it was a lot of pars.  I made two birdies and then the one mess-up on 12.  But other than that, we were playing just really solid golf, making a lot of pars.  It's really tough conditions out here, and I was happy with the way I was playing.   
Yeah, I don't even know what to say about 18.  Obviously thinking in my head it's going to be for the halve, but I know obviously how close everything is right now, and I knew how big that was.  So to step and make that putt was pretty special.  I'll never forget it.   
 Q.  You said it was a double-breaker?  
CHRIS KIRK: Yeah, it was downhill, a little left-to-right and then just a little right-to-left back to the hole.  Thankfully just turned back enough to go in.   
Overall, it was a relatively straight putt, but not the easiest, whatever it was, 12-, 15-footer.  I don't want to putt it again, I'll say that.   
 Q.  Obviously you want to win the match, but tough to see your opponent lose like that?  
CHRIS KIRK: Yeah, definitely it's something that you never want to see.  And Anirban is a really great guy, too.  That's what makes it even worse.  He and I -- obviously this is a heated contest and everybody warrants to play well and win.  I've played with him a couple times and he's just as nice of a guy as he could possibly be.   
 Q.  Just talk about your first taste of Presidents Cup, Ryder Cup --  
CHRIS KIRK: Yeah, just the bonds that I'll have forever with the guys on this team after this week.  I didn't play my best at the beginning of the week, but really despite us getting killed yesterday by Hideki and Moon, I played really some pretty good golf and continued to feel good about my swing today.  Thankfully I was able to sneak it out.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT