CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 24, 2015
Chris Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Does it get any easier? 
    CHRIS KIRK:   No, absolutely not.   No, I was as nervous as I've ever been today.   I was up and down on the last couple holes, especially making that putt on 18.

Q.   It's got to mean a lot to you.   Just talking on the way out there you said you thought you might win this tournament but maybe not this year?
    CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, I've always loved this golf course, it's been my favorite tournament on the Tour since before I was on the Tour.   Came here for the Ben Hogan Awards ceremony.   You know, didn't really feel like I was swinging that well early on in the week but somehow I was able to get it done.

Q.   As a winner of the Hogan Award, what does it mean to you to get your name on that trophy?
    CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, unbelievable.   You know, just to be a part of the history of this tournament is really just amazing to me.

Q.   Chris, when you started today, did you feel like you had a number that you had in mind to shoot?
    CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, 13 was kind of where I was wanting to get and the whole back nine that's what I was thinking, and I feel like I got fortunate a little bit to sneak out and win it at 12.   Playing with Brandt, who's a good friend of mine, had pretty good chance on the last three holes.   So a little bit lucky.

Q.   When you went to the back nine, did you feel like you had learned from some of the mistakes you made?   You had the lead at the PLAYERS Championship.   When you had that, do you learn from that as a player when you don't get the job done?
    CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, definitely so.   You learn more from when you did get the job done, I think, how your body responds under pressure.   Sunday at THE PLAYERS was kind of a funny day and I really wasn't focused, so I wasn't hard on myself after that day, which I think is key.   To have a little bit of redemption to come win my next event is pretty sweet.

Q.   When you look at the players that have won this tournament and some of the greats of the game, how special is this golf course and this tournament?
    CHRIS KIRK:   Absolutely.   Just to be a small part of the history here is amazing.   This has been my favorite tournament on the Tour since before I was on the Tour.   I came here twice for the Ben Hogan Awards ceremony and just a really special place for me and I'm beyond honored.

Q.   Do you have some pants to match the jacket?
    CHRIS KIRK:   We'll see.   Maybe I'll get some.

Q.   Chris, great playing.   Congratulations.   I want to ask you about that shot at 18.   Hit it in the left rough, you get ball in hand.   Pretty calm, though, on your wherewithal to figure out that lie and figure out what you wanted to do with it.
    CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, absolutely.   It was kind of in between for me a little bit in between a 9 and a wedge and I tried to take a little bit off a 9 but it's probably tough to take it off in that situation and got a little bit of a jumper over the green, but I knew that was (inaudible.)
    Q.But that lie that you had, you're able to put it near a divot and get a pretty clean lie behind the ball?
    CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, relatively clean.   Still was a little bit there, obviously got a little bit of a flyer.   I hit a 9-iron that went probably about 175, which is not how far I hit a 9-iron.   Yeah, it was definitely better than it would have been.

Q.   The ball was going a long ways late in the afternoon.   Kind of surprised that 12-under ended up being the number today?
    CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, 13 was the number that I had in my head so yeah, I do feel a little bit fortunate that I was able to get out without a playoff.

Q.   Another win under your belt, you've got to feel pretty good?
    CHRIS KIRK:   Absolutely, yeah.   Felt like I was kind of struggling with my swing a little earlier this week and still didn't feel great with the driver down the stretch, but to be able to sort of gut it out and make the putts when I needed to make them and get a win really feels sweet.

Q.   They always say I'd rather have my B game and my A mental and you needed your A mental around this place.
    CHRIS KIRK:   Absolutely, yeah.   That was the ticket this week for sure.

Q.   With the 2015 Crowne Plaza Invitational champ, Chris Kirk.   Chris, let's get right to that finishing hole.   You're through the green in two.   What's the pressure like?
    CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, I kind of figured Brandt would make his putt so I was more thinking up and down to get into a playoff.   But once he missed his putt and had a putt for the win there, I wish I could describe what that feels like but you really can't.   So to be able to step up and make a putt...

Q.   You're a guy who's always cool, calm and collected.   What was it like on the inside for you standing over that putt?
    CHRIS KIRK:   I felt good over the putt.   I was pretty nervous at times today.   I was struggling a little bit with my driver, not quite hitting it how I wanted to, but my putting stroke felt great all week, so I definitely felt good.

Q.   You've had a connection with this place.   How special is it for you to win at Ben Hogan's place?
    CHRIS KIRK:   Absolutely.   Just to be a small part of the history here is really, really special to me.   It's been my favorite tournament on the Tour for a long time, since before I was on the Tour.   Like you said, coming here for the Ben Hogan Awards Ceremony, just a very special place so I'm very honored.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT