CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 23, 2015
Chris Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Nice way to end the day, too, with a nice little approach shot at 18?  
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, absolutely, it was a nice finish.   I missed the fairway first two days over to the right on 18 and made bogey both days, so it was nice to put two really good swings on it and make an easy birdie.  
   
 Q.   How did you find the conditions today?  
CHRIS KIRK:   You know, they really actually weren't bad.   There wasn't a whole lot of wind out there and certainly not what we're used to playing in here, and then obviously the course is soft.   But it's been strange this week adjusting to playing this golf course like this because I mean this is my sixth time coming here and I've never ever seen it where it wasn't firm and fast off the tee, so club selection was completely different.   The wind's coming out of a little bit of a different direction than we're used to.   So it's been a totally different golf course playing a lot longer than normal, but I definitely adjusted well today anyways and had a good day.  
   
 Q.   Just one of these courses that suits your game?   How would you sum that up?  
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, definitely so, it definitely does.   It just kind of fits my eye and I've always liked greens here.   So I've had some mixed results but some really good rounds and promising weeks here at this tournament, so I'm in good position again.  
   
 Q.   Anything today that was working that wasn't necessarily working the first two days?  
CHRIS KIRK:   Just kind of didn't make as many dumb mistakes.   You know, the first two days I made 12 birdies and nine bogeys to be 3-under.   So it was a lot of good going on there obviously but just was making some mistakes that I shouldn't have.   Today was just a lot cleaner round.   I mean, I had one bogey, the three-putt unfortunately, but apart from that it was really clean, drove the ball well and all aspects of my game were pretty sharp.  
   
 Q.   Seemed like, at least looking at the scores, that a lot of people got out fast and kind of plateaued a little bit, but you on the other hand had a really nice back nine.   Did you see the conditions, was it firming up at all on the back nine?  
CHRIS KIRK:   No, it wasn't firming up at all.   This is just a golf course that had never -- it doesn't ever seem to let you just go crazy low out here.   I don't know why it is.   I mean, you saw last year, I don't remember what one, I think played off at 8-under something like that.   It was perfect conditions, the golf course was in unbelievable shape, wasn't that much wind.   It just, I don't know, something about this place you just -- it's just hard to really take it deep.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT