WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 6, 2014
Chris Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How would you reflect on 3‑under par around here?   
CHRIS KIRK:   It was a good day, yeah, absolutely, very happy with my score.   Pretty interesting, little bit of a mixed bag.   Some loose shots and some really great shots, starting on my first hole, No. 10.   Missed a drive into the rough into a really bad lie and had to lay up and holed a wedge shot for a birdie.   Interesting start to an interesting day.  
The rough is to deep and so thick, I had twice today where I drove it in the rough and had 180 yards in for my second shot, so I had to lay up.   You just get such thick lies up there.  
   
 Q.   I take it you had your moments in Shanghai.   Was it all the better for the year in the second week and much more acclimatised?   
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, not worrying about the time change and sleeping more at night definitely has helped me a lot.  
   
 Q.   How did it affect you?   
CHRIS KIRK:   I definitely was having to take my sleeping pills last week for sure, just to make it through the night.   And had a little bit of rough weather last week.   This is more like it.  
   
 Q.   What do you fancy of the setup of Sheshan and the whole environment of the WGC event?  
CHRIS KIRK:   It's a great environment.   They have taken very good care of us and the setup is very similar to what we are used to seeing on the PGA TOUR, good, fast greens and long rough and narrow fairways.   Just like being back in America.  
   
 Q.   You'll probably tell me it's just been hotel and golf course but having been in Shanghai for the best part of two weeks, have you seen anything?  
CHRIS KIRK:   We went and stayed downtown on Sunday night after the BMW Masters last week and had a little bit of fun with the boys.   Got to see the city a little bit.   Now it's back to work.   
   
 Q.   Impressive, isn't it, when you see the skyline?  
CHRIS KIRK:   It's unbelievable.   Probably the biggest city that I've ever been to.   It's a very impressive city.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT