THE McGLADREY CLASSIC
October 26, 2014
Chris Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Chris, let's talk about this week.   A heck of a defense of your championship.   I thought today you were right there with some chances.  
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, absolutely.   You know, I just couldn't quite get anything to go my way for most of the round.   I started rolling in some putts on the Back 9, sort of halfway through the Back 9.   
But you know, through 11, 12, 13 holes, you know, I was 2‑under for the day and felt like I was playing so much better than that.   I was hitting the ball so good, and just kind of one of those deals where the ball wasn't ending up in the right spot.   
7 is a good example of I piped the drive and then smoked the 3‑wood in the middle of the green and ends up two feet off the back of the green, at a funny angle, where I can't putt it off the fringe and have to chip it and bump it through the grass, and kind of takes a funny bounce to about eight feet, hit a good putt and misread it and walk off with a par after hitting such great shots like that.   
So that was kind of the story of the day, the story of the week a little bit.   I really played really well.  
   
 Q.   Four rounds in the 60s after taking some time off, you have to be pleased with that.   Were your expectations that high coming in?  
CHRIS KIRK:   Not really, no.   Yeah, I played a little bit of golf during my break, but I really didn't know what to expect at all.   So I was pleasantly surprised to play as well as I did.  
   
 Q.   Obviously you love this golf course.   I mean you play so well year in, year out.   
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, I do.   It's a course that I've played a ton of times, you know, playing SEC Championships here when I was in college and then lived here for six years, played here a ton.   
I've never really pictured it as a course that I would win on or play well on.   I struggled here in college always during the SECs, but I think the work that I've done with Scott, my teacher, is helping drive the ball a lot better and that's one of the big keys out here.  
   
 Q.   Are we going to see you in China?   Are you going to go overseas?  
CHRIS KIRK:   I'll be there.  
   
 Q.   Are you looking forward to it?  
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, I am.   I am.   It's going to be a fun trip.   I'm actually headed out there tomorrow.   I'm going to play the BMW masters next week and then followed by HSBC.   So two weeks in Shanghai.   Should be a fun trip.  
   
 Q.   Best of luck.   Safe travels.   Great week.  
CHRIS KIRK:   Thanks a lot.  
   
 Q.   Chris, just recap the week as a whole, the title defense for me real quick.  
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah.   Had a blast.   It's always great being down here, whether I'm here for a tournament or not.   My family and I, we love being here at St. Simons and have so many close friends from living here for six years.   
So combine that with obviously a golf course that I love and coming back to defend my title from last year and playing some good golf this year, too, is all in all just a really great week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT