TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 14, 2014
Chris Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Are you going to sit around?  
CHRIS KIRK:   I live here, so I've got nowhere to go.   Yeah.   Obviously, you know, very much a long shot to still win the FedExCup.   But coming in here as the FedExCup leader, I'm proud of the way that I played this week, and especially today, making the putts that I made coming down the stretch, a lot of really key par putts, and hit a lot of good shots there, and two really good ones on 17, and probably the best putt of the day that somehow didn't go in.   
So you know, like I said, to come in here as the FedExCup leader and play a really solid tournament and finish fourth place right now, you know, I can't really ask for much more.   I would have loved to have won the tournament and taken it all, but it's a lot more pressure than I'm used to being under in my first four years on the TOUR.   So to know that I can hit the shots and I can make the putts even with the way that I was feeling, my whole body was shaking on that left‑edge three‑footer on the 18th hole, and so to know that I can perform when I'm feeling lake that is a huge confidence boost for me.  
   
 Q.   You in the last month have been paired with the current and former world No. 1 and beaten them both like head to head.   What do you take from that?  
CHRIS KIRK:   I think people make more of that than what it is, really.   You know, unless it's only two people fighting it out and with nobody else is close to them to win a tournament, there's not really much of a Match Play type of scenario at all.   It's not as if we're playing against each other, you know.   
Adam and Rory are both very, very pleasant guys to play with, so it's not‑‑ I don't feel as if I'm going head to head with the best player or the second‑best player in the world and beating them.   I'm just trying to play my game and trying to beat everybody is the idea.  
   
 Q.   What caused the shaking?   Might be an obvious question.   
CHRIS KIRK:   That is the most obvious question I've ever heard.   Just the whole stage and how much money is at stake, and more importantly to me, the money is good and great, but just being able to perform on this kind of stage.   That's what's important to me, to hit shots and hit good putts and make them and just to be under that kind of pressure and to be able to hit the good shots, that's what makes you nervous, but that's also why I play this game.   
   
 Q.   You said you were shaking.   Did you have an idea coming down the stretch?   Were you glancing at leaderboards?   Did you have an idea coming down the stretch of the scenarios?  
CHRIS KIRK:   No.   Kudos to whoever put the leaderboards out there this week.   They make them blatantly impossible to not see.   I was trying as hard as I could all day to not look at them and you're sitting there reading your putt and they're boom, right in front of you, your projected FedExCup ranks.   
I accidentally saw it a few times today.   Saw at one point in the beginning of the round when I was 1‑over, I was fourth and saw it later I was projected second.   So I tried to ignore it as much as possible and just grind it out and make as many putts.   And I was hoping to make as many birdies as I could, but the course, especially the back nine, played really tough.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone).   
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah.   I definitely couldn't really ask for more, you know.   I feel like I got a lot out of my game this year, and definitely went to some new levels with my game, I would say.  
So yeah, very, very happy with the way I've played and the way that it's finishing up.   But at the same time, if I didn't think I had a lot of things to work on and a lot of things that I could get better at, I probably wouldn't be here in the first place.   So that's kind of my mindset.   
I'm looking forward to maybe a little bit of champagne tonight and a little bit of rest, and then in a week and a half or so I'll be back on the grindstone working on my game trying to get ready for the Frys.com event.  
   
 Q.   Will you have any nightmares the next couple of nights about the sixth hole?  
CHRIS KIRK:   (Laughs).   No.   My bogey save actually made me feel pretty good about it.   I didn't really hit too bad of a shot there.   I just misjudged the wind.   I thought it was down‑‑ it was obviously off the right, but I thought there was a little bit of help, and turns out there was a little bit of hurt.   I actually hit a solid shot.   I pushed it just a little bit, but I thought it was either going to catch the right edge of the green or maybe just the rough there and obviously came up short.  
That was like the first real nice putt that I made today, so it ended up being a positive to be honest.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT