DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2014
Chris Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You're playing alongside Rory McIlroy.  Before the day you're two shots back, tied with Rory.  Everybody is talking about Rory, but you're the one who ends up lifting the trophy here in a couple of minutes on the 18th green.  What was your thought process before this final pairing?CHRIS KIRK: Just trying to go play like I did yesterday.  Obviously I didn't shoot quite as well as yesterday.  But I really felt good over the putter today.  And just unbelievable.  My biggest win ever.  Pretty crazy the two years I've had since switching to Callaway Golf, changing equipment companies.  But I've played the best golf of my life the last two years.Q. You were joking with me earlier that you did have a fist pump out there, which is uncharacteristic of you, emotion-wise.  Are you as calm on the inside as you seem to be on the outside?CHRIS KIRK: No.  You know, in that kind of situation it's unbelievable, just trying to control the feelings going through your body, trying to factor in how much further you're hitting all your irons just because you're to pumped up.  I may be a little bit more calm than some other guys in that situation, but I'm pretty much still freaked out inside.Q. You were 17th on the Ryder Cup points coming to that final week of the PGA Championship.  Do you think you earned your way into a Captain's selection with Tom Watson tomorrow when he makes those selections live on the Golf Channel?CHRIS KIRK: I definitely put myself into contention for one.  If I get picked, great.  I'm still very happy with my year.Q. You'll have to wait and see just like the rest of us.  And congratulations, and by the way, the win means you're No. 1 in the FedExCup point standings. What a weekend, 64, 66, no bogeys, your iron play was superb what are you most proud of this week?CHRIS KIRK: Just all around game was really great these last three days.  After a rough day the first day, obviously this is the biggest win of my career.  I'm very pumped about it, and so excited about how I played the last two years since I switched over to Callaway Golf.  Their stuff has really been great and their whole team, sort of team environment that they have, has been unbelievable.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT