DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2014
Chris Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  First off, great playing.  You had to be very pleased.  No bogeys.  That was a tremendous round of golf.  CHRIS KIRK: Thank you.  I haven't played my best over the last month or so, I haven't had a round like that where I drove it great and hit a lot of really good iron shots and chipped and played it solid is nice to have.   Q.  An exciting shot at 17 above the bunker.  The lie wasn't great.  Tell us about that.  CHRIS KIRK: Yeah, that was an interesting one.  The ball was so far above my feet, I had to aim probably ten feet right to factor into how that wedge was sitting up like that, and not a great lie.  I came out a little hot, but thankfully it the middle of the pin and went in.   Q.  You and Rory combined 14-under with no bogeys, really a tremendous father-in-law type day, you just went back and forth?  CHRIS KIRK: Yeah, we both got off to good starts.  And then just fed off each other all day.  Both were hitting well.  Neither of us -- we weren't rolling in 25-footers, but there were a lot of tap-in birdies out there, which is nice.  I think we could have played in about three hours if there wasn't anybody in front of us, because of all the shots going so close.   Q.  You're a natural guy, and just go about your business.  But what is it like playing with a guy like Rory.  The crowd obviously is cheering his every move, but yet you're playing great, too.  Is that exciting for you?  CHRIS KIRK: I've known Rory for a good many years, since amateur golf.  And I've always been good friends with him, had a good relationship with him.  He's a very enjoyable guy to play with.  I actually heard a surprising amount of, "Go Chris'," out there today, more than I expected.   Q.  A lot of Bulldog fans.  You're in great shape now heading to the final round.  You've had a great year.  This has got to be fun for you, too, tomorrow?  CHRIS KIRK: Yeah, definitely looking forward to the day.   Q.  And Georgia, a comment about the great performance last night?  CHRIS KIRK: They looked great in the second half.  It was a huge win for us to start the year, and to see those two freshmen running backs play so well, it definitely gives you a lot of hope for the future.   Q.  Does it help when you both were so hot in the group?  CHRIS KIRK: Rory and I both got to off to a good start.  I birdied the first two holes.  He birdied 2 and 3.  So both of us getting off to a good start and then sort of fed off of each other all day.   Q.  The wind kind of died?  CHRIS KIRK: Yeah, there were times it would die, and times it would come back up.  17 is a good example.  I thought that it pretty much died there, and I got ready to hit my second shot and it starts kind of gusting again.  It was a little bit tricky out there, but obviously Rory and I did a pretty good job of figuring it out.   Q.  When you're playing with Rory, you have to be on top of your game?  CHRIS KIRK: I try to play well every day.  But I definitely enjoy playing with him.  He's a guy I've known for quite a while and been good friends with and he's a very enjoyable guy to play with.  For someone like me, I have to definitely make sure I don't get caught up in watching him.  He'll out-drive me by 30, 40 yards sometimes and hit these ridiculously high iron shots. But thankfully I was able to just not pay too much attention to it and just play my own game and hit plenty of good shots, myself.   Q.  How important was the chip in on 17?  CHRIS KIRK: Yeah, that was a nice bonus.  I was playing a really good, solid round.  And I hit a decent second shot there, just sort of rode the wind a little too much, and landed on the wrong side of that little knob in the middle of the green and kicked down there into a tough lie.  But anything like that is definitely a bonus and nice to get another one on 18.   Q.  What did you hit on 11?  CHRIS KIRK: 3-iron.  I believe it was 208, the wind was a little bit in and off to the left.   Q.  When you look at the leader board, do you figure you're still kind of in the mix?  CHRIS KIRK: Yeah, I didn't really pay too close of attention to it.  I saw it there on 18, but there's still a lot of golf left.  I just was happy to play a good round and get myself back in it.   Q.  Best player you've ever played with?  CHRIS KIRK: That's tough to say.  I've seen some pretty impressive golf games the last few days, playing with Rory today and Adam didn't play his best the last few days, but he's as impressive as anybody.  And at the BMW two years ago I watched Phil shoot a 62, so that was pretty spectacular stuff, too.  I've seen a lot of good golf, I guess.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  CHRIS KIRK: I'm planning on seeing Georgia play Tennessee that weekend.   Q.  So you're not too concerned?  CHRIS KIRK: No, it's pretty much out of my control.  I'm trying to play well, and do as well as I can in this tournament.  I couldn't be any less worried about it.  It would be purely a bonus if I was to somehow sneak on to the team.  But like I said I've got big plans that weekend in Athens.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT