THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 3, 2014
Chris Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about the course conditions.   Was it soft today?  
CHRIS KIRK:   A little softer than yesterday, just with the storm that came through last night.   But the course held up really great.   The greens were just absolutely perfect.   They were really receptive.   So that's why you're seeing the good scores.  
   
 Q.   You've had such a consistent year.   You won.   Now you're just carrying it through the year.   Your comfort level has gotta be really high right now.   
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah.   Absolutely.   I feel really good with all aspects of my game.   I know not everything's going to be there every day, but yeah, very happy with how steadily I'm playing.  
   
 Q.   What about this place?   It's so unique.   There's a lot going on outside of the golf.   The concerts and the families enjoy it.   Is it distracting for a player?  
CHRIS KIRK:   No.   I'm enjoying it.   I went up to the gun club yesterday and shot some clays for a little while, and going to go see if I can catch some trout this afternoon.   So yeah, it's nice, all the extracurricular activities they have for us.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, this is a popular spot for the players, I guess for those reasons; right?  
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, and it's a really good golf course.   That definitely helps, too.   
   
 Q.   Keep it going, Chris.   
CHRIS KIRK:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   You junior Bulldogs aren't playing around this year.   Talk about that connection and you guys, and such a good group of players you guys have.   
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah.   I think it's just‑‑ around the time that I was there, and then for four years after Brendan Todd and I left, you know, we just had‑‑ we had some really, really good teams at Georgia, and you know, we were No. 1 in the country for a long time, and so now all those guys are out here.  
   
 Q.   Do a lot of fishing at home?  
CHRIS KIRK:   Not as much as I wish I did.   I've got two little kids.   So they keep me pretty busy.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
CHRIS KIRK:   I'm not sure where we're going.   Just through the Greenbrier here.   I guess they're going to‑‑ my caddie and I and Scott Brown who I played with today.   He's a good friend of mine.   He's going to come with us.  
   
 Q.   Not a bad way to spend an afternoon.   
CHRIS KIRK:   Absolutely.   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT