MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2014
Chris Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q   .Looked like kind of an inconsistent start, but you got up‑and‑down out of the bunker on 7, is that where something just kind of clicked?
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, that was a nice putt that I made on 7.   There's no such thing as easy putts out here.   So to make it right in the middle, that got me going a little bit. 
I made a nice putt for birdie on 8 as well. 
They got my score wrong, by the way, I shot 1‑under, not 2‑under.   They had, Martin Kaymer and I, they had our scores reversed.   I made par on 9 and Martin made birdie. 

Q.   Thinking you were 3‑under coming in here to 18, unfortunately, I didn't see 18.   Can you tell me what happened there?
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, I hit my drive, ended up in the first cut just short of the bunker.   Then just not a very good second shot, ended up short right, which was not a good place to miss it from the tight lie. 
I had to hit a little bit of a flop shot over the bunker.   I had a chance.   That's sort of a shot that I'm pretty good at.   I didn't hit a great one to probably 12 feet behind the hole.   I ended up with a slippery little putt down the hill that I wasn't able to make, unfortunately. 

Q.   Par‑5s on the back nine, it looked like you got a little bit unlucky with the first hop on the wedge shot on 13, it went this far over.   Then looked like you had a decision to make on 15, decided to lay up.   Talk about both of those holes. 
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, it was sort of a similar yardage on both of them.   I got up in the fairway and thought that there wasn't a whole lot of wind and had a perfect club. 
Then both times I got up there and the wind came up in my face. 
On 13 I was right in between my 2 hybrid and 3 hybrid and when I walked up there, I thought it was going to be perfect with the 3 hybrid and it would have been great, if I didn't have any hurting wind. 
But it was kind of one of those situations where I knew the 3 wasn't going to get there and I knew if I hit a good one with the 2, it was going to go over.   So you're not really gaining anything there. 
So I decided to lay up and hit that wedge shot.   I hit it just a fraction harder than I meant to.   I knew as soon as it came off the club that it was a little bit too hard.   But it almost hung onto the back of the green. 
That chip shot, I don't know how it stopped.   It was hanging over the front lip of the hole, going down hill.   I'm not sure how it didn't go in. 
Then 15 was a pretty similar situation.   I had a really good number for my 2 hybrid and got there and the wind came up there in my face where I would have had to absolutely smash it to cover the water. 
The percentages, when you get in that type of situation, they just don't favor it, when you know you have to hit a really perfect shot just to not hit it in the water.   3‑wood would have obviously gone over the green and not been in a very good spot. 
So I played it there and hit a decent wedge shot that probably stopped at, whatever, three or four inches short, right in the heart, too.

Q.   What's the difference in playing out here on Saturday?   Talk about that. 
CHRIS KIRK:   Not a whole lot different, really.   The course was just a little bit firmer and the greens were just a little bit faster.   It's not a huge difference, but it's just even less room for error than there already was. 

Q.   How fast was that putt on 14?
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, I couldn't believe that.   I thought I hit my second shot perfect.   I thought that it would have caught that slope and gone right to the home.   I was shocked when it ended up where it did.   I had about a 20 foot putt that I hit about ‑‑ I literally hit it a foot.   I hit it‑‑ I was right on the cusp of where the ball couldn't stop, so all I had to do was get it moving and it was going to get to the hole. 

Q.   It looked like 16 would have been a similar situation, but it looked like you got aggressive with that putt. 
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, that was ‑‑ 16 was, it was a relatively flat putt, but one of those putts that you kind of know in the back of your mind that if you hit, if you hit that putt three feet by, it's going to go maybe in the water.   I mean, it's that severe, that close to the, to where that pin is. 
The way the slope is, if it has any momentum going in that direction, it's not going to stay up on top of the hill.   But, yeah, it was, for out here, it was a relatively simple putt, about a cup of right‑to‑left break, and relatively flat. 
So, thankfully, I ignored the possibility of putting it in the water and decided to putt it in the hole instead. 

Q.   Solid round puts you in position to where you're right around the Top‑20 now.   Top‑12 get invited back for next year.   Do your goals change now going into Sunday?
CHRIS KIRK:   I kind of said after yesterday that if I play, if I play a really solid weekend, I could potentially finish in the Top‑10.   So, no, that doesn't change at all.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT