SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 12, 2014
Chris Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You gave it a shot there at the end, but it really was the putts that didn't go in on the front nine that held you back, 16 greens, 31 putts.   You played awfully well. 
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, just the first 13, 14 holes I could not get a putt started on line for some reason.   I didn't feel overly comfortable with my putter all week, and Friday I had kind of a similar day.   Yeah, so that's obviously frustrating.   I feel like I hit the ball well enough to win this week, but it doesn't always work out that way.

Q.   I saw on 18 you and Harris were laughing about something. 
CHRIS KIRK:   It wasn't really anything.   I was just telling him how sick of a shot that was from the back left rough.   He was just kind of telling me to show him something on the second, and I really didn't hit it.   I was really just trying to stay aggressive and chip it in but hit it terrible.   It was a terrible shot.   I got a little excited, I guess, and (inaudible).

Q.   What do you take away from this week?
CHRIS KIRK:   Just another solid week of golf.   That's kind of what I'm trying to do every week, what we're all trying to do every week.   I'm just thankful that it's been going my way lately.   I know how hard this sport is, so just going to enjoy it while I'm playing well.

Q.   Are you having fun?
CHRIS KIRK:   Absolutely, yeah.   When are we going to see you again.
CHRIS KIRK:   Phoenix.   I cannot wait to get home to my family.   I've got an almost‑two‑year‑old and a three‑week‑old little boy to go home to.   I'm definitely missing them a lot.   I can't wait to get home and see them tomorrow. 

Q.   What's it like when you play well enough to win but another guy makes everything he sees down the stretch.   From your vantage point (inaudible)?
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, I didn't really‑‑ I wasn't paying attention.   I didn't look at any leaderboards until about 16 I guess it was.   No, 17.   I didn't know anything until 17.   I was just trying to play as well as I could and was hitting the ball great today, but just could not buy a putt all day until the very end there.   I looked up on 17 before I hit my birdie putt, and still kind of thought in the back of my mind if I could finish 2, 3 I'd have a chance.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
CHRIS KIRK:   I wish that I had been rolling it a little bit better with my putter all week.   I had a few days where I made a few here and there, but Friday and today just really struggling to get the ball on line, so that just kind of made me feel uncomfortable.   I generally don't hit the ball as well as I did today because I can kind of rely on my short game and putting, and it was kind of the opposite today. 

Q.   What can you take from this other than the fact that you can compete when your putting is not up to your standard?
CHRIS KIRK:   That's really it.   This was a week where I did a lot of things really great, don't get me wrong, and I'm very happy with the way I played, but I know if I would have had solid a putting solid week, it would have put me on top. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT