THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
November 8, 2013
Chris Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   We will jump right in and get started.   Chris Kirk, thanks for joining us for a few minutes.   Second consecutive 4‑under 66 here at Round 2 of the McGladrey Classic.   I know you're glad to get it in today.   Just a few comments on the first couple of days here in your proverbial backyard so to speak.
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah.   Definitely happy to get done today.   That's for sure.   I'm not sure if the group behind us may have gotten done, but maybe only one more group before we it got dark, so definitely nice to avoid that early wake‑up call. 
Yeah, great to be here at Sea Island.   Obviously a great golf course.   I think every player will tell you that.   And with Davis and Mark and Scott Reid all running the tournament, obviously he's been out here doing this a long time, so know what the players like and what the players want.   And so from our side it's one of the best‑run tournaments of the year, if not the best.
THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   With that we'll open it up and take some questions.

Q.   Five birdies when the wind was probably worst for the afternoon.   Can you just talk about that?
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah.   Definitely kind of shot my score on that Back 9.   Made a pretty easy bogey on No. 10, and it was just kind of like, yeah, this is going to be a pretty tough day.   But didn't let it bug me, and after hitting a pretty good shot into No. 11, misjudged the wind and came up a little bit short, managed to hook one from about 40 feet and putting it through the fringe and was kind of off and going after that, played 13 really well, good tee shot there.   And it's a really tough back left pin on 13.   You kind of have to be careful with anything left or long or you're making 5 pretty easy.   I hit it about 10, 12 feet short right and made that. 
And then chipped one in on 14 and actually had about 10 or 12 feet, maybe, for eagle on 15 after a really good second shot.   It was kind of a strange‑‑ a shot that you never really have.   I hit it up the left side in the first cut and there was a tree in the way so I had to kind of start it probably 20 yards right of the hole and with the wind blowing 25 left‑to‑right, I always draw the ball pretty much, but even for me that was a big hook because you're standing there like, okay, I've gotta basically try to hook this into the left bunker if I can.   I mean I had to effectively hit a 30, 35‑yard hook just to get it around the tee and fight the wind.   And I hit a really good shot there.   Unfortunately didn't make the putt for eagle, but always good to get a 4 there. 
Then a good solid birdie on 17.   Hit a 7‑iron in there and made about a 15‑footer.

Q.   (No microphone).   That was a good bogey.
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, it was a good bogey on 4.   That's a tough tee shot always, but especially for me with the wind blowing straight right‑to‑left.   I hit it a little bit‑‑ just barely, barely over turned it and it gets right into that wind with a 3‑wood.   It's pretty easy to get it into that hazard on the left side.   But it was kind of in between clubs where I was going to drop and decided to move back five yards further and hit the longer club and then hit it over the green, which made me feel pretty dumb.   But thankfully made a really great up‑and‑down from about 20 yards over the green in the rough, hit a really good chip up there to a couple feet.   So yeah, that was nice to be able to get out of there with a bogey. 

Q.   In conditions like this, does it pay off having some sort of familiarity with the course?
CHRIS KIRK:   I would say so.   Yeah, I mean I've played this course hundreds of times.   I've seen every wind direction, every wind strength.   I've seen it blow way harder than that before, so it definitely‑‑ I don't know.   I mean you still‑‑ you know how well you gotta play to shoot a good score, but at least there's no surprises, you know exactly what to expect. 
I mean I miss‑hit my 3‑wood a little bit off my first tee shot on No. 10 and had a hybrid in for my second shot when it's generally a 3‑wood wedge.   So I knew that could happen.   I had stuff like that happen just playing out here tons of times.   So I guess that is a little bit of an advantage just sort of not being shocked by it at all.

Q.   When it blows this hard, do they just stay home, have parties all day?
CHRIS KIRK:   No.   I wouldn't say that.   But I mean today wasn't too bad.   But yeah, I think we got pretty lucky this week.   You know, the weather's been all in all pretty good.   A little kind of damp at the beginning of the week.
But yeah, we get really good weather most of the time in October and November it's generally beautiful, but every now and then there are days where it's high 50 and blows 30.   Very rarely, but this tournament's never had that.   I guess today was about as close as you get.   But it was still 65 and sunny.   It wasn't that bad. 

Q.   When did you move here?
CHRIS KIRK:   I moved here July 2007.

Q.   Did you know before you moved here that the headquarters (No microphone). 
CHRIS KIRK:   I've been coming here for a long time before that when I was in school.   We always stayed here during the Georgia‑Florida game and we'd come down, call in sick for class on a Wednesday and come on down here and always had a lot of friends from here, and I played junior tournaments here, so I'd always been coming here and loved coming here for the Georgia‑Florida game.

Q.   (No microphone)?
CHRIS KIRK:   We won't talk about that.   My trips during Georgia‑Florida.   We'll leave that out. 
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Well, Chris‑‑

Q.   (No microphone)?
CHRIS KIRK:   That sounds about right.   I mean we had one day where you could shoot 8‑under and one day where you were even par was a good score.   So yeah, that balances out. 

Q.   On No. 8, (No microphone). 
CHRIS KIRK:   I would call it seven feet. 

Q.   Did you have a nice long par putt anywhere?
CHRIS KIRK:   I got up‑and‑down from a plug behind a bunker, though.   I was pretty impressed with myself.   That was No. 8.   Yeah, it is Georgia‑Florida, by the way. 

Q.   Are there disadvantages of playing at home with people wanting tickets or wanting a piece of your time?
CHRIS KIRK:   I'm about probably the seventh or eighth best player on the island.   So no.   (Laughs). 
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Well, Chris, great playing.   Keep it up and we appreciate your time. 
CHRIS KIRK:   Thanks.     







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT