THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
November 9, 2013
Chris Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Chris Kirk joins us here in the interview room at McGladrey Classic after a 2‑under par 68.   Chris, 17 of 18 greens hit in regulation today.   And then a tremendous putt there on the last.   Just comment a little bit on your day.   
CHRIS KIRK:   Thanks.   Yeah, it was definitely a good solid day of ball striking.   The only green I did miss I was on the fringe putting.   So I didn't hit a chip all day, which is kind of strange.  
But yeah, it was a good solid day.   Being 2‑over through 12 I actually was playing some pretty good golf, hitting a lot of good shots, and I had two 3‑putts from really long range on par‑3s, and you know, one of which I would say wasn't too great on 6.   I didn't hit a very good second putt.   It lipped out pretty hard on me.   But 12 I hit my par putt right down the line I wanted to.   I just misread it a little bit.   It was nice on 13 I hit one close, about four feet or so, and that was good to avoid the shutout and kind of get things going a little bit and managed to play pretty solid from there to the house.  
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Questions?   
   
 Q.   Did you feel like the birdie on 13 just kind of opened it up for you, took some pressure off you there?  
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah.   It was nice to just finally sort of get rewarded for hitting some good shots, you know.   I mean 12 I didn't hit a very good iron shot in there, caught the right side of the green and hit what I thought was a pretty good first putt and ran it by a little bit, and like I said, I had a 6, 7‑footer for par that I rolled right down the line.   Easy to get kind of pissed off after that, but I just sort of told myself that, I mean, what can you do there really.   I mean I would have had to hit a bad putt to make it.   I would have had to push it.   So you just sort of try to stick with my process and hit a really, really good 3‑wood off 13 and a really good wedge shot in there close, so it was just kind of like, okay, finally got something to go my way, and then it continued to do that afterwards, thankfully.  
   
 Q.   Continuing on, I'm curious about the shot on 14 which looked relatively blind and required somewhat of a riding the wind draw.   
CHRIS KIRK:   Actually, I hit a really, really good shot, but it was probably a little bit more straightforward than it looked.   I got a really good break because the ball ended up on the cart path.   There was enough of a slope right next to the cart path where I could use the rule where you drop it and it rolls back on to the path twice and then placed it into a perfect lie and had‑‑ I mean I couldn't actually see the flag, but it was pretty much in line with the Golf Channel tower back there, just left of it, and it was a pretty good number.   That kind of shows how hard that wind was blowing at that point.   I had 176 and hit a full, pretty low 5‑iron to end up 12 feet short of the hole, which I mean I usually hit a 5‑iron 200 yards.   I mean that's playing for at least 25 yards of windy got there.   
But yeah, it was‑‑ I judged the wind pretty well there and made a good swing thankfully and rolled the putt in.  
   
 Q.   How far did you start it out right of the tower?  
CHRIS KIRK:   I mean it was a pretty‑‑ actually just a pretty normal‑‑ I mean I'd draw it anyway, so I pretty much just aimed at the flag and hit it.   It probably was a five‑yard draw.  
   
 Q.   Was it at all frustrating?   When you talk about hitting every green and losing ground?  
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, definitely, but it's not like I was hitting it five feet all day, you know.   So if I had been doing that, then I would have been much more frustrated than I was.   I still definitely was not happy with being 2‑over through 12, you know, but I just kind of was able to sort of stay within myself a little bit.   I saw that nobody was exactly‑‑ nobody was going out and shooting 7, 8 under, you know.   So at worst, I think I got to maybe two behind or something like that.   So it wasn't like I was in really bad shape and just kind of said to myself, if I can get it back under par for the day, then I'll be in great shape coming in to tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What's like an example of one of those early holes that you were getting frustrated on or where did you feel most frustrated?  
CHRIS KIRK:   Just a few holes where I hit, you know, kind of decent iron shots and then, you know, like 10 is a good example.   I hit a good 3‑wood off the tee and a good 6‑iron into a really tough pin and sort of caught a slope and rolled down where I felt like I hit it about 15, 20 feet, it rolled down about 30 feet and hit a really great putt.   Then it rolls over the top lip on a big right‑to‑left breaker and it's just kind of‑‑ every now and then you can catch yourself just saying what the heck do I have to do here, you know, because you're hitting good shots, you're hitting good putts.  
But you know, that's just kind of the way it goes sometimes.   Golf is not always the kindest game that you'll ever play.  
   
 Q.   What were the details of your win in Mississippi in terms of there was probably seven or eight guys within three shots.   It was pretty bunched.   Was it like that in Mississippi and what do you look forward to tomorrow with that type of situation?  
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, it was a pretty similar situation to hear.   I'm tied for the lead here.   I guess I had a one‑shot lead there, but it was one of those deals where there were three, four, five, maybe six guys within two of me, you know.   So not like you can just go out there and play conservative and try to hold onto your lead, and obviously that'll be the same way here with Briny at 10, and I know there are a number of guys at 9 and 8.   So it's sort of anybody's game.  
Obviously I'm happy to be tied for the lead right now because that's one less shot that I've gotta go get tomorrow, but obviously I've gotta go play a really good round tomorrow and hope that nobody plays a really great round tomorrow.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT