JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2013
Chris Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How pleased are you? 
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, overall really pleased.   I mean, I didn't exactly make a ton of putts the last few days, but I'll never complain about the position I'm in.   I hit the ball really great, and just hopefully I can get a few more to fall over the weekend.

Q.   Ball‑striking is really good this week so far. 
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, it has been.   I actually drove it better yesterday than I did today.   I hit pretty much every one right where I was looking, which doesn't happen very often for me.   But yeah, it's been nice, and just like I said, hopefully a few more putts to fall this weekend.

Q.   You've had a solid year, a solid few years.   You've got to feel you're close to winning again.   Could this be the week it all comes together?
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, I mean, any week could be the week.   I feel like my game is pretty good, and it's just kind of a matter of being patient and waiting for something like that to happen.   You don't go win; winning just happens.   We'll see. 

Q.   You're a laid‑back guy.   You don't get too upset or up or down about anything, but this weather, come on, this is awesome. 
CHRIS KIRK:   This is unreal, I know.   For anywhere.   You can't ask for any better than this, 80 degrees, sunny, no humidity.   That's as good as it gets.

Q.   Is this the best weather of the year on the PGA TOUR do you think? 
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, we had some really good weather in Hartford this year, too.   Yeah, it got a little hot on the weekend, but this is ideal.   Yeah, I guess so, since I don't think it can get better. 

Q.   Can you talk about your day?
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, sure.   Another good solid day, two in a row.   I hit the ball really great both days.   I gave myself a lot of chances and had some stretches of making some good putts and some stretches where I would like to try again.   All in all, 9‑under after two days is great shape.

Q.   Is that the mindset, putting together solid rounds, four of them, instead of just one day at a time and stuff like that?   How do you look at it for the entire week?
CHRIS KIRK:   I mean, I've just been kind of working on my game a little bit lately, trying to get my ball‑striking a little bit more consistent, a little bit more steady, and thankfully it has been the last two days, and now I'm going to go to the putting green, try and figure that part of it out and see if we can put it all together.

Q.   Golfers raved about the condition yesterday of the course.   I'm sure you'd agree with them and they were just as good this morning?
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, it was perfect.   Every single aspect of the golf course is perfect, from the tees, fairways, greens, rough, everything is really in perfect shape, really consistent, and with this kind of weather on top of that, it's about as good as it gets.

Q.   Are weeks like this fun, weeks that can be more friendly to golfers than what you guys have to deal with all the time?
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, absolutely.   This is the style of golf that I really enjoy playing, and this is definitely one of my favorite tournaments of the year.   I love the golf course here and love the town here where we're at. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT