SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 11, 2013
Chris Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CHRIS KIRK:   I put the Callaway wedges in play the last few tournaments of the year last year, and then the driver, the driver that I'm hitting, they made for me pretty early on in the fall, and that was kind of the reason why I was so tempted to change now.   Titleist has been so great to me over my entire pro career, and I love their equipment, but this Callaway driver that I'm hitting is just so‑‑ I just have loved it.   That was sort of the main reason why I switched.   I mean, the way I've driven the ball this week, golf has been pretty easy from there.

Q.   Did you hit 5‑iron into 9?
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, 5‑iron into 9 from 184, and then on 18 I hit an 8‑iron into 18 yesterday and a 7‑iron in today and have been able to kind of take it over those trees and around the corner. 

Q.   Any shape to it over the trees?
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, a little bit of a draw, but I mean, I'm really just teeing the ball up.   It's a fun shot for me to hit.   I draw the ball anyways, but I tee the ball up as high as the tee will allow me and put it in front of my left foot a little bit and just kind of sit back on the right side and just swing as hard as I want.   Especially with the downwind right to left, it's a really fun tee shot for me. 

Q.   You talked before about (indiscernible). 
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, I've had Scotty since Colonial last year.   It's been really great for me.   I used to change every two or three weeks and would just sort of contract it out.   But it's been really great for my peace of mind, just having somebody consistent, and I think that my slightly more consistent play since he's worked for me is no surprise. 

Q.   You're not sick of him yet? 
CHRIS KIRK:   Not sick of him yet.   I'll keep you posted. 

Q.   You're still obviously relatively young.   Is that surprising to see Russell and Scott starting out their TOUR membership this way?
CHRIS KIRK:   A little bit, I guess, but I've known Russell for a while and I know he's a very confident player and a very good player.   Not too much of a surprise to me there.   I don't know Scott personally, but any time you come out your first round as a PGA TOUR member and shoot 62 is pretty darned impressive.

Q.   Harris last year was kind of interesting, his rookie year.   He said the biggest part of his rookie learning experience was missing cuts, and missing a couple in a row and realizing‑‑
CHRIS KIRK:   The world is not coming to an end?   Yeah, it's hard.   Definitely in amateur golf you get used to‑‑ you don't play very well and you finish 15th.   It's different out here.   There are just so many more great players out here and even on the Web.com Tour, also.   It's just as tough to make cuts on that Tour as it is on this Tour.   Yeah, you definitely have to kind of realize that it's not the end of the world and just sort of get back working and don't let‑‑ you just can't let it get you done really, missing cuts, because it doesn't really take that much.   It's not like you have to play bad golf to miss a cut out here.   You can be just a tiny bit off and you're sent packing. 

Q.   Just some overall comments on a great round, great finishes on both nine holes. 
CHRIS KIRK:   Thank you, yeah.   Making two eagles like that in one round is something that doesn't happen very often, so it's always a nice surprise when you're able to do that, especially having a couple virtual tap‑ins for eagles, which was very nice.   I didn't hit a ton of great iron shots today, but seemed like my good ones all ended up really close and was able to make the putts. 

Q.   What club and yardage did you have into both of those?
CHRIS KIRK:   I had 185 in both times.   9 was into the wind, hit a 5‑iron, and 18 downwind, hit 7‑iron. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT