DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2012
Chris Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A really wonderfully played round of golf.   Talk about your eagle at the 18th that kind of sent you back into the front nine, your second nine holes. 
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, that was huge for me, kind of scraping it around a little bit, kind of getting away with a few things and making some putts my first eight holes and I really made a good swing with my tee shot on 18 and even better swing on my second shot, and that kind of propelled me to playing a really solid nine.

Q.   And you finished it really nicely with a nice par‑saving putt at the 9th. 
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, I thought I hit a pretty nice second shot in there, but having to hook it around those trees it just landed a little hot and didn't hit a great chip, but making that putt definitely makes me feel a little better.

Q.   23 putts in this round.   Really nicely done.   Did you feel this coming?
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, I've putted reasonably well for the last few months.   It wasn't great last week, but these greens are just so perfect here, if you hit it on line, it's going to go in.   So that kind of gives me a lot of confidence.

Q.   You finished the FedExCup regular season with 80 points, 80th place.   Just a little questionable how far you're going to go.   What is your mental attitude going into these Playoffs?
CHRIS KIRK:   Just kind of go for broke for the most part.   I came in at 33rd last year and probably put a little too much pressure on myself.   But this year halfway through the season I was about 130th, so I played pretty well the few months before they started just to get in here, so I kind of just see it all as a bonus, however far I manage to make it.

Q.   You have the second best round of any of the afternoon times.   Now you have a fresh golf course in the morning.   You have to have good thoughts going into the second round. 
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, definitely so.   I think it probably played a little easier in the afternoon today to be honest with you just because the wind got up a little bit and all the par‑5s played downwind.   I mean, I had 5‑iron into 18 and 6‑iron into No.2, so some of those holes played a lot shorter, some of those scoring holes.   Hopefully the golf course will stay firm tomorrow morning and be a little firmer than it was this morning for those guys, and I can keep making birdies. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT