RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 28, 2012
Chris Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What was the case when you woke up this morning?   Did you think you'd get off to this fast a start?   You got out of the gates quick. 
CHRIS KIRK:   Definitely not.   It was a dream start.   That front nine, everything was going right.   Every time I hit a decent shot I'd have a ten‑footer that was right edge up there, and kind of left myself in perfect position on the entire front nine.

Q.   You birdied seven of the first ten.   Did you start thinking about 59 at that point or did you ever think about 59? 
CHRIS KIRK:   Not really, no.   I was just trying to keep my head down and keep going.   If anything, I may have played a little bit too aggressively on that back nine, trying to keep it going. 
I always had the theory that you always have these days when the putts are going in the middle of the hole and everything's working out, so you have to get as many as you can on the days you have it.

Q.   Par is a really good score.   Were you frustrated at all with par or were you telling yourself par is good? 
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, there were a few times where I wish that I had made birdie on a few of those holes.   Particularly, 17, I had the putt for eagle.   I thought I hit a good first putt and played in 25 feet of break, and it only broke about 20.   So I had a five‑footer straight downhill. 
Kind of on 17 and 18, the way those greens are, you can hit a good putt from five feet and not make it, and that's what I did.   Just misread it a little.

Q.   Anybody that follows you, you're so effortless.   You just kind of walk nonchalant.   Your swing is very smooth.   Was that as easy as it looked today? 
CHRIS KIRK:   Yeah, it was.   For a while there anyways.   Obviously, it wasn't as easy on the back nine.   But when it's going like that, that is the easiest golf there is.   Shooting 75 is tough.

Q.   That was a good answer.   I'm glad you were honest with me.   Talk about tomorrow now. 
CHRIS KIRK:   I didn't really look at the leaderboard.   I don't know where I'm at.   But I'm obviously in a lot better shape than I started off the day. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT