SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 3, 2011
Chris Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Lot of people would have cut you some slack in that situation if you didn't do what you did today. What are you proudest of?  
 CHRIS KIRK: My back-9 today. I struggled with my putter yesterday, and I was able to find a little something and felt really calm out there and confident and I was feeling that way.  
  
  Q. Pretty good performance in only your 19th TOUR event. Congratulations. Chris, six birdies, a bogey, and you were in contention until probably last couple holes when Phil was lighting it up. Your thoughts on how you played today.  
 CHRIS KIRK: Very happy with my back-9 and just my ball striking all round. I didn't make a whole lot on the front-9, which could have really got me up there, but I certainly wouldn't complain.  
  
  Q. Let's talk about a couple holes. The 9th was the only green you missed on the front-9, over the green. You ended upped knocking it on and 2-putting for bogey. You came back with a birdie right after that. Mentally that's got to be great for you to rally after the bogey.  
 CHRIS KIRK: Yeah, absolutely. I holed a really nice putt on 10 and that really jump-started me. I hadn't made a whole lot in the front-9 and I didn't make a whole lot yesterday, so that hit a really good putt, made probably I'm not sure how long it was, 15, 18 feet, and make it right in the middle of that, just sort of gave me a little bit of that confidence that I needed.  
  
  Q. You stayed in contention on 16. You didn't need to putt. You chipped it.  
 CHRIS KIRK: I'll remember that one for a long time. I actually had a pretty bad lie over there. The grass was so perfect, you don't think could you get a bad lie. I had a little bit of a bad lie and was able to squeeze it out, and to see that thing go in the middle of the hole was really great.  
  
  Q. What does this mean now, lot of FedExCup points. A good paycheck. It means a lot for going down the road and making it on the Tour.  
 CHRIS KIRK: Kind of sets me up for the rest of the year. I was already in pretty good shape, but this just makes it a little better.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT