KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
October 6, 2020
Suzy Whaley
Kerry Haigh
Paul Knopp
Mike Whan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









KAREN STUPPLES:   Welcome, everybody, to the sixth KPMG Women's PGA Championship, and what a delight it is to be here again.  And just driving over here from Atlantic City you get a sense of just the history that you're coming into this area and this championship.  I always get the feel that every year we're building history as we move along.
We've got a fantastic group of people set up here on this conference call, Paul Knopp, the chairman and CEO of KPMG; Suzy Whaley, president PGA of America; Kerry Haigh, obviously chief championship officer of PGA of America and a very genius golf course setter upper; and Mike Whan, the commissioner of the LPGA, who has managed to negotiate this tough time really very well indeed.
Welcome, everybody, and Paul, I'd just like to start with you.  Congratulations on your new post, and welcome aboard.
PAUL KNOPP:   Thank you.  It's a pleasure to be with all of you here today.  I have the great privilege of being at Sahalee Country Club in 2016 at that event, and it's amazing how much progress we've had over the years and how far this tournament has come.
We are so excited about continuing to sponsor this event, and look forward to a really great week.
KAREN STUPPLES:   Paul, can you tell us why it's so important to you and to KPMG to continue your support of this championship?
PAUL KNOPP:   Yeah, KPMG has a really strong commitment to the development, advancement, and empowerment of women, both in the business world and in golf, and really we're thinking about our shared vision with all of you to accelerate and advance women, both in the business world and in the world of golf, in the world of sports.
As we look at this event, it's a great example.  We play this event on the best golf courses in the United States and some of the very biggest markets.  We're so fortunate to have NBC as a partner to help us provide great exposure on national TV for this incredible event.
And then incredibly, we've been able to increase the purse over 90 percent since 2016 for this event, as well as the largest increase in purse this year for all events, and one of the top purses on the LPGA Tour for this year.
We're so committed to this journey of trying to advance more women in both the business world and in golf, and we really want to be at the forefront of change moving forward.
KAREN STUPPLES:   And Paul, it's a shame that we aren't doing this in person because I literally would be high-fiving you, Mike Whan would be high-fiving you, I think all the players would be high-fiving you for this commitment that you're making to women across the board.
I think it's absolutely spectacular what you're doing, so big thank you from me and the players and the LPGA in general.
Moving forward to Suzy, this is your last one here with us.  You've continued to kind the set the bar for women within the golf world in general in this prestigious role as the president of the PGA of America.
When you look back on your term in this leadership role and this groundbreaking championship, what stands out to you the most?
SUZY WHALEY:   Well, thank you, Karen.  It's so great to be with everybody.  From the beginning, six years ago, this partnership with KPMG and the LPGA and the PGA of America has been committed to what Paul referenced, the best venues possible historically significant venues.
Typically for a male-only contenders, and now we have the women playing on them, which is fantastic, on network television for the elevated purse.  And certainly the three of us, and at least the partnership, is committed to making this the absolute best event in women's golf.
And I think as you look at Aronimink, we have to say thank you to the leaders at Aronimink, the members, to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, to the public and local authorities who have helped us be able to stage this event responsibly.
We certainly, as so many things are different in 2020, we are going to miss the incredible fans in Pennsylvania that we all remember well from championships that have been held in that surrounding area before.
But we are still so excited to have this as a venue in the fall.  If anybody from the northeast understands that, it will be spectacularly beautiful for our fans to be able to really watch, and it's one of the best courses.  We have three of our major championships, the first time ever, rotating at this particular facility, with the 2026 PGA Championship returning to Aronimink.
Our hope is to inspire, to lift people's spirits, to get people out on a golf course from watching this, and really to understand the incredible talent on the LPGA.
KAREN STUPPLES:   That's so well put.  From my perspective having walked around the golf course, it's beautiful here in the fall.  Although it's a bit chilly at times, I must confess, it's absolutely stunning, and I think what an opportunity to see fall golf up here as you rightly said.  Thank you so much for doing this here in October.
Mike, this is for you now.  You've faced so many challenges, and I can't even begin to kind of wrap my head around everything that you and the LPGA and board and committees have had to go through.
Can you sort of give us an idea what it's been like from your perspective and the LPGA and what it's like having companies like KPMG and partners like the PGA of America here helping you out this week?
MIKE WHAN:   Yeah, thanks, Karen.  Paul used the term shared vision when he was talking and to me.  I wrote it down because I thought this whole event has been about shared vision.  What started as a really great conversation between the PGA and the LPGA about building a major bumped into KPMG, and I remember from the very first conversation they saw something we didn't see.
They saw making an impact both in the boardrooms and in future leaders that just make it even more major.  And then when we brought NBC and The Golf Channel in they said why have a women's conference this good if they don't let the world watch it.  So they let a million people eavesdrop on what going on for just 300 women.
So this whole shared vision thing, I know it probably comes natural for KPMG, but they've taught us something over these years about -- my father used to say, hang around with people that dream bigger than you do.  And I think KPMG just dreams bigger naturally.  Like it just comes natural to them.
They see something and then they see it 10 years in the future.  I think we were smart enough at the LPGA and the PGA to kind of ride that dream, and I'm really excited that you got Kerry on this press conference today.
I think anybody on this call would wish we were as good at our job.  There's just nobody who does it like Kerry Haigh, and I think as a result, our athletes, our caddies, and most importantly our fans around the world will get to see the best female athletes on one of the greatest venues.
I'm in Florida and heading your way in a couple of days, so anything that has the word chilly in it has me all in, because it hasn't been chilly here since I learned the term coronavirus for the first time.  It's been a crazy year, but the fact that it's been crazy for the LPGA doesn't make us unique.  Quite frankly, makes us like everybody else.
I'm sure Paul could give you a long talk about navigating coronavirus, as could Suzy.  There's no book on this, so I've said this many times:  You wake up in a pandemic or any kind of business crisis and you either have surrounded yourself with a team that's going to guide you out or you haven't.
If you haven't, it's too late.  If you have, you need to get out of their way.  The best thing that's happened to me at the LPGA in 2020 is to realize my team is more talented than their commissioner, and to be able to just get out of their way and watch some people that didn't go to college for this, didn't take a job at the LPGA to figure out testing or what are we going to do on contact tracing or how we're going to set up golf courses and pro-ams to be tested in this unique way, but watch all of them adapt and take it to the next level.  It's really inspiring.
Suzy used the term inspiring.  In the worst year of my business career I've been more inspired in 2020 than I can ever remember being in any period of time, because I've watched people step up and take the podium in places that they just weren't trained to do, and quite frankly, do it better.
As a sport we're closer.  We're closer to the NBA, the NFL, Major League Baseball, definitely closer to the PGA TOUR, the PGA of America, European Tour because we have all had to navigate together.  There is some kind of weird sanity in the insanity of going through it together.
Luckily, we're led right now in the golf industry by people like Seth and Jay and Keith Pelley and the rest that are willing to share their challenges as they go through them and let the rest of us kind of eavesdrop a little and it's made it a little easier for all of us.
KAREN STUPPLES:   You mentioned how great your staff was, Mike, and I think they'd all say the same for you, that they were glad you were in charge of them throughout this whole process.  So thank you again as a member of the Tour and for all the players for everything that you've done.
You also mentioned Kerry Haigh, and quite frankly, over the course of my time watching golf course setups, and now I have to really pay close attention to them in my role now on The Golf Channel, have to look for all those little sneaky things that people who set up courses do, Kerry is, in my opinion, probably the best at it there is.
Welcome, Kerry, and thank you so much for this.  Obviously a bit more of a challenge this year because you were thinking of setting the course up for a June championship; now here we are in October.  If you can run through some of those things for us and what we can expect to see out on the course this week.
KERRY HAIGH:   Sure.  Well, thank you, Karen, and Mike, thanks for those kind words.  This is truly a team effort between KPMG, the LPGA, and the PGA of America.
This week, especially here at Aronimink golf course, which is a truly outstanding golf course, if not one of the best in the entire country, as you can see, those who have been here, beautifully prepared by John Gosselin, the superintendent here and his entire staff.
And in terms of what needs to be done because of the October date compared to the June date, well, come here at 4:00 in the morning when they actually start their maintenance practices.  It is dark all the way until 6:30, and for two and a half hours in the pitch black, they are mowing, they are doing the bunkers, they are doing the greens, and managing that in the middle of 150 acres out on a golf course is unbelievable.
Their team have put together an outstanding venue for the best women players in the world, 6,570-yard par-70.  Clearly it's playing long.  It's softer here in October than we expected in June.
But the practice rounds are always from the back of the back tees, so we will make adjustments if and when necessary based on the weather conditions and the wind conditions that Mother Nature give us.
Probably one of the biggest changes and challenges we've all faced, and we spoke with Mike and the LPGA, was we wanted to maximize the opportunities for the best women players to play in the championship, and obviously we have probably three hours less daylight, but we wanted to maximize the size of the field.
We do have 132 players in the field, which we are proud of.  But having said that, we're actually going to tee off I believe it's three minutes after sunrise on Thursday and Friday, and we will be finishing well after sunset.
The hope is to finish, but we would not be surprised if we were not able to finish due to the challenges and the difficulty of the golf course and the amount of daylight.  But we felt it extremely important to provide the playing opportunity for all the best players to just feel what is a true major championship.
With that also on the weekend, because of that, the fall schedule, as we all know on television, is full of many sports that have either normally finished or just started, so our weekend time slot has been moved to now a 3:00 and a 2:00 p.m. finish time on Saturday and Sunday.
In some ways we could be making history this week because we will have the leaders not teeing off at the end of the wave on Sunday.  And if we don't finish on Friday, they will not be teeing off last on Saturday, either.  We feel it's important that everyone watching the telecast will see the leaders, see the leaders play all 18 holes, and we think that is important.
And although it's a little different and out of the box, we as partners with the LPGA and KPMG are prepared to make those changes for what we think will be a greater and a better championship for everyone to observe.
With that said, I just want to say how excited I am.  I have told all of our staff and everyone that we want to focus on the positives, not things that we may or may not be able to do.  We have a great golf course.  We have an outstanding Aronimink Golf Club.  We have the best players in the world and partners with KPMG, the LPGA and the PGA of America.  I cannot tell you how excited I am to make this our best major championship for women that we have ever, ever conducted.
The golf course is there for us to try and do that, and it won't be through lack of trying.  I can't wait to get started on Thursday.
KAREN STUPPLES:   Thank you so much, and it is always good to hear what you have to say about this golf course.  There's so much that I want to ask you, but I'm sure it would bore everybody else on this conference call because that's just the golf nerd in me wanting to come out.
From talking to a number of the players and from being an ex-player myself, it's huge for all of us to be part of this championship, to be involved, to feel so valued and appreciated for our craft and what we do, for everything that everybody has done here.
For all of us it's really quite remarkable, and every year that I've come back it's just grown and it's got bigger.  Even though we have no fans this week or no galleries and big stands or big buildup around, it still feels really big to me.  It still feels like this is the major that it was always meant to be.
Congratulations to everybody here for putting this on, from my personal perspective and allowing me to indulge myself a little bit there to say thank you.
Paul, I'm going to get back to you a little bit now.  It's not just about golf, is it?  We have a two-fold focus on really elevating women both on and off the golf course.
Can you give us an idea into what's going to be happening at the Women's Leadership Summit?
PAUL KNOPP:   Yeah, sure.  Mike mentioned the 300 women that we bring together.  We're bringing them together this year virtually from over 100 different companies, and our goal is going to be the same despite the virtual environment, and that is to advance more women to the C-suite.  We certainly see some results there.
We surveyed past participants and we've learned that half of the 750 have been promoted and about 20 percent to the C-suite.  We certainly feel proud that we hopefully played some small part in the success of those women because of this event, and the event is also going to have phenomenal speakers again this year.
We have Robin Roberts headlining this year; Dr. Condoleezza Rice will be back; Ibtihaj Muhammad, best selling author and Olympic fencing medalist will be with us; Mariah Stackhouse, our KPMG brand ambassador and LPGA star is going to be speaking to the audience.
And then we are all going to have executives from Chevron and Marriott that also share the stage.  But one of the most incredible things about this Summit and about the KPMG PGA Women's Championship that we collaborate with the PGA of America and the LPGA Tour on is it funds the KPMG Future Leaders program.
What that program does is it identifies every year about 22 rising high school seniors, female, that are from underserved and diverse communities.  What we are doing is we're providing college scholarships, we're providing mentoring opportunities with executives that attend the Summit, women executives that attend the Summit, leadership development, and very importantly, of course, an introduction to golf, also.
It's just a phenomenal event, and over the last six years we have, in conjunction with our partners, funded $2.6 million in scholarships for over 100 recipients since that 2016 date.
These young women are going into fields of STEM, business fields, and we feel really gratified just to play some small part in their future success in bringing them more success as their careers progress.
So we couldn't be happier to continue to partner with all of you in all three elements of this week:  the tournament, which is going to be physical; the Summit, which is always a great event; and then giving these young women from underserved communities a chance to go to college and a chance to be successful.
We look forward to this really exciting week.
KAREN STUPPLES:   Thank you.  I've got goosebumps because I can't tell you how important that is and how proud it makes me feel that you want to be associated with the LPGA and be part of our community.
So again, I'm so proud that you want to be that for us.  So thank you again.
I'm going to open it up to questions now to whoever wants to ask some questions.
Q. Kerry, almost every player that's come up here has talked about the length of the golf course.  What is the wiggle room on how far you might move it up?  What's the range?
KERRY HAIGH:   Yeah, that's a great question.  Obviously when you set the yardage for the championship you've got to do it with the assumption that a hole could be playing downwind or with no wind.
That said, as I mentioned earlier, there are -- if the wind is blowing or the ball is not moving or rolling, then we'll look to make adjustments, as we do at every championship.  In this particular venue, there are certainly some tees or some long tees that we can move forward on, and in some cases, as we've told the players, there's two sets of tee markers on an alternative tee for players to practice on.
There is some wiggle room.  Maybe not as much as some modern courses, but that's part of the mystique of Aronimink, is it's a true old-style, old-fashioned golf course.  The enhancements that Gil Hanse did on top of Donald Ross, what a great combination.  It's just spectacular.
Q. I have a question for Paul.  Obviously the pandemic, the economy was not good during that time, and of course the PGA had to refund money for corporate suite holders and for ticket holders.  I just wondered how important was it for you -- the purse still is 12 percent higher than last year.  How important was it for you to keep that where it was and not have to direct money to other areas?
PAUL KNOPP:   It was crucially important.  Thank you for that question.  We see our continuing collaboration with the PGA of America and the LPGA Tour as really important for a number of reasons.  One is the championship and elevating and accelerating women in golf and giving them this incredible platform, but also all the events around it.
So the Summit, we wanted to hold it virtually.  We wanted to continue to give women the experience that they have historically had with our Summit so that they continue to enjoy the benefits.
We really are constantly thinking about inclusion and diversity in that regard and ensuring that we continue to invest for the future so that we do have more inclusive and diverse people in all of our organizations, whether it's the sports world or the business world.
To us it was crucially important to continue every aspect of what we've historically done.
Q. Kerry, I know you announced the horseshoe tee times on the weekend where the leaders won't go off last.  You're excited about this; can you foresee it in other PGA Championship events, and would you like to see it across other events in golf in general?
KERRY HAIGH:   It's something that obviously, as I said, has not been done or is very rarely done.  It's something that we've often thought about or spoken about.  Usually it's due to a weather delay.  Certainly Thursday or Friday if you get delayed playing into Saturday, and the vast majority of people watching any championship or any tournament are watching it on television compared to those onsite.
If you have the opportunity to see a three-hour telecast and see the leaders all through that three hours, to me as a spectator, that is a lot more appealing than watching everyone but the leaders tee off and you never get to the leaders to see a shot.
I think personally, I think that's a great way to showcase the best players and certainly showcase the leaders, those players who are playing the best that week in that championship.  And who knows, hopefully others may look to see it as an opportunity and not something that, well, we've always done it that way.
KAREN STUPPLES:   If I can just add to that, and I'm old enough now where I can remember all kinds of things happening in golf, and I remember a number of tournaments where we used to play it that way on the LPGA.
It was the reverse horseshoe, and I remember teeing off in like one of my first years on Tour with the lead and being the first group off in the afternoon to make that time.  As a player, it didn't really make any difference to me.  It was perfectly fine.  Just as exciting to be in the lead and at the top of that leaderboard as it was if you were teeing off a couple of hours later.
It all worked out quite nicely in the end.  Just to add to that.  Sorry for interjecting there.
Q. Kerry, now that you've had a chance to see Aronimink up close and personal all week, does it stack up to the other courses that have hosted the KPMG Women's PGA Championship?
KERRY HAIGH:   Oh, without doubt.  It's absolutely -- it's a gem.  The greens complexes, the shot choices, shot selection that a player has and you have to think your way into, onto, and around all the greens.
The fairways are certainly very generous, so give you the opportunity to hit the fairways.  But from there on in, you've got to hit great golf shots and think your way in and around the holes.  It's a great test.
I've always said, we've been here -- here with the KitchenAid Senior PGA in 2003, and although it rained every day that year, it was still a great test and the players loved the layout, although it was pretty muddy.
But what Gil Hanse and his team came in, and with the club, their master plan to continue to improve what was already a great golf course, hats off to them, because it is unbelievable.
It's a course that as a member or as a guest, you came and play it, it's special.  I tell everyone that I play, it's a great course to play.
Q. For Paul and Mike.  Paul, you talked about inclusion and diversity, and this is a Tour that has, I think, one player of color as a member currently.  Can you talk about how you discuss with Mike Whan how you can do what you can do to change that?
PAUL KNOPP:   Yeah, I think whether -- I'll just say whether it's women or people of color or LGBTQ, we're all thinking about more representation in our organizations of all underrepresented groups.
So we certainly hope that through charitable causes where we introduce more people of color, for instance, to golf, that we do provide more opportunity for women of color to elevate to this game.  We're incredibly proud to sponsor Mariah Stackhouse.  It's a real honor.
We do believe that she too is an inspiration of greatness for many young people of color.  So that's certainly how we think.
MIKE WHAN:   Yeah, actually I think it's a sign of the times when somebody would look at the LPGA Tour and wonder if we're diverse enough.  That's an interesting question that I don't think I would have gotten in 2010.  Because we come in, we represent 40 different countries, these kids, and as you can see, most of them are kids, they're 20 something kids running their own companies, hiring their own caddies, their own swing coaches, their own site coaches, their own nutritionists.  None of these players you see out there hitting balls have a five-year contract with a no-trade clause.  They get paid when they play well and when they don't they go home without a check.
So I can tell you from -- I think I give KPMG a lot of credit here.  They were one of the first corporate companies to really see the LPGA for what we knew but we really didn't market.  We marketed great golf and great hospitality and TV times and international television, but I remember standing on the range with John Veihmeyer, at the time the chairman of KPMG, and he said, look at this range, this is what corporate America is trying to figure out.  You have women here from all over the world, all different sizes, all different backgrounds, all different personality types and they're all leading in their own little business, and they're doing it against a lot of odds.  Nobody looked at their 12-year-old daughter and thought, well, her life will be perfect in professional golf.  There will be no obstacles for her because she's got tons of obstacles and we've known it, but it's been amazing to watch.
But I think to whoever asked that question, it's been a great awakening for me personally in 2020.  I've said this to my team in many a staff meeting that's done virtually like this, we've been really over-the-top focused on improving the amount of women's opportunities in the game of golf.  Not just in America but all around the world.  Really proud of what we've done there, proud of what's happened to the future of this game and how much more female it is than in 100 years before this.
I know a lot of people on this call and around the world can take pride in that but haven't been as focused on making sure that expands to women of color and to young athletes, giving opportunities they maybe hadn't had before, and we said as a group, if we believe we're a change agent for this game, we've got to be a change agent for everybody who needs change in this game.
I'll be the first to say it's an area -- it's a baton we have to pick up and run with as hard as we've run with changing the game and the face of the game for women, but it's exciting if somebody looks at the LPGA and says you guys aren't a very diverse group.  That means that diversity has come a long way in my 11 years.
KAREN STUPPLES:   Suzy, I'd like to ask your thoughts and comments on that very question because I think PGA of America is important in this role, too.
SUZY WHALEY:   Happy to add to it.  As Paul and Mike alluded to, we're all extremely focused on this, not just this year but we've been focused on it for multiple years.  Our PGA professionals out in the field and our communities our LPGA teaching and club professionals which I'm also a member of are working every day to welcome their communities to the game.  In 2020 we're excited because it's back to golf.  We're seeing numbers up dramatically in June, July and August, almost 20 percent of those playing the game that are brand new to the game.
But to specifically answer your question, where we're really seeing great growth at the PGA of America and the LPGA, as well, is through our junior programming, through PGA Junior League golf where we have many more young girls playing the game and those of cultural differences and backgrounds.  LPGA girls golf is 80,000 young girls who are getting together to play the game who are looking to the Mariah Stackhouses of the world, see them as role models and understand that this is an opportunity that they too can share.
If they fall in love with the game, they have a PGA professional, an LPGA teaching and club professional helping them navigate the game itself.  If they want to become a player for a lifetime, fantastic.  If they want to become a future LPGA Tour star, fantastic, and they have Mariah and others to look to to do that.  We're incredibly proud are of our professionals at the PGA of America growing the game every day.
Q. Suzy, just wondered as president what is your sense of satisfaction to finally reach this point after seven months of uncertainty?
SUZY WHALEY:   That's such a great comment.  I think all of us that are on the call as well as in sports have tried to navigate and evolve every single day as the world changes amid so many issues that we're all facing.  We're just so grateful and proud to have this date from the LPGA Tour, to have KPMG by our side, and really inspiring the future generation of women.  Thrilled to have Aronimink as this unbelievable venue, Donald Ross greatness with Gil Hanse, obviously, making the changes that they made.
For me to be president at a time that we get to host what we feel is the best women's championship in the world is something pretty special to me as I was here in the inception.  It's really -- it will be a special week for me, as well.  Thanks for asking.
Q. Suzy, even with a shorter field this week we have eight players in the field that are LPGA club professionals, teaching professionals, affiliated with the PGA.  Can you speak to the importance of having them in the field, and what's the value to those players when they return to their home clubs and they're able to talk about this experience?
SUZY WHALEY:   Thank you so much for asking that because we couldn't be more proud of the PGA professionals, club professionals that are representing us in the field this week as well as the LPGA professionals representing us each and every day.  Like me, they are working at facilities, manufacturing jobs, they are working as coaches and teachers.  But they get this week to truly shine and showcase their skills amongst the very best females in the world.  They earn this opportunity through our national championship and through the National LPGA Teaching and Club Professional Championship.  We have Joanna Coe, who is our 2019 PGA female professional of the year participating this week; Alison Curdt, our youngest female master professional ever who also has her Ph.D.  We just have these unbelievable representatives, Sophie Park, who played on our PGA Women's Cup team, Jennifer Borocz and then obviously the four LPGA T&CP players who are competing, as well.  To go back to your facility or even have your facility to have the opportunity to watch you be showcased on a venue like this is a dream come true for these players.  As Karen mentioned, she's played in multiple major championships.
There's nothing like that feeling of standing on a first tee at a major championship and when you do this in the industry for a living and get that kind of opportunity, it's something you just cherish.  Their members at their facilities and their customers where they work should be so incredibly proud that they are doing this.  It's courageous, it's brave.  But they want to play well, too, and they're looking to do that.  I spoke to a few of them last night and they are really excited and think the venue is tremendous.
MIKE WHAN:   I think a lot of times people ask us how great it is for those teaching professionals to be here.  What I would say, as well, don't forget what KPMG and the PGA are doing for our athletes, as well.  I think for our young 20-somethings, 30-something athletes they are usually surrounded by a lot of other great athletes, but when they come to this event they see women at the absolute top of their game in a lot of different professions.  They see great former players that are teaching, they see women that pursued a teaching path right out of school, they see women on their way to the C-suite at the Women's Summit.  If you met a KPMG future leader, you've met a future president of the U.S.  It's unbelievable how talented these kids are.  They're all going to be heads of companies in 30 or 40 years.  There's virtually no doubt about that.
And you know this, Karen, as being a player.  Sometimes when you're out there and you're an athlete and you're grinding it out every year, you wonder to yourself, what am I going to do when I'm done playing.  I focus on golf all the time, and players always say to me, geez, all I'm really good at is this, and I always say, So you're good at self-discipline overcoming obstacles, competing for a living.  What do you think businesses are looking for?  I think these teaching professionals don't even realize when they're at this event what they mean to some of the other athletes.
I think sometimes they see the athlete and think, wow, that's pretty cool, but I can promise you from conversations we have in player dining and shuttles all over the world, they make an impact back on our athletes, too, when they see these women that PGA of America, the LPGA and KPMG bring in and just -- there's a lot of ceiling breaking going on, and it's not just inside the Women's Summit, it's happening all across the golf course.
It definitely plays both ways, and it means a lot to my athletes to have these people be part of this field.
KAREN STUPPLES:   I totally agree, and I have a dream, and my dream that I will go on to the driving range and I'd see a whole bunch of women coaches coaching the very best players in the world, whether it be on the PGA TOUR side or an the LPGA Tour side.  I think what they have to offer is of value across the board.  That would be one of the biggest gifts that I could see in the -- moving forward if some top players go ahead and find a coach that was one of our pros.  That would be absolutely tremendous.
MIKE WHAN:   It's coming.
KAREN STUPPLES:   Thank you all.  Again, thank you all.  Thank you so much, everybody, for watching and participating in this today.  It's always a pleasure for me to stand here and host this, although a little bit nerve-racking at times being in such illustrious company.  Honestly, Paul, Suzy, what you do with this championship is just off the charts.  Kerry, you create the canvas that the players have an opportunity to play on, and Mike, thank you for providing this for the players to come here and have this opportunity to show the world just exactly how good they are because they deserve that.  Thanks, everybody, for being here today, and on Sunday evening we're going to have a champion and they'll be lifting that magnificent trophy, and I can't wait for that moment.
Thank you all.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT