WNBA FINALS: MERCURY v SHOCK
September 11, 2007
Deanna Nolan
Katie Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Katie, this is, I believe, the lowest point total that Phoenix has been held to in the post season.  Kind of what's your assessment of your guys defense and how things went well tonight? 
 KATIE SMITH:  I think our offense really dictated our defense and I think with our patience and allowing ourselves to get down and set in our offense without running and pushing as well, I think our patience on offense really set our tone with defense and then I think people individually locked into what we needed to do and then -- but we also gave up too much penetration to the free throw line too much.  So there's a lot of things we can clean up but I really think our offense helped us with our defense. 

 Q.  Katie and Deanna, both of you seemed to have an answer every time they came close and it seemed a lot of times you hit some big threes. 
 KATIE SMITH:  You know what, we have had a lot of open looks, at least for myself, had a lot of open looks throughout the series.  You're able to get that in a zone for the most part.  We were able to knock them down.  During that spell we were able to score some points, but I remember hitting a three and Diana came down and hit a three. 
 So we were kind of going back and forth.  So it wasn't like we were pulling ahead per se.  So they were hitting shots as well as us.  But we're going to get shots, we just have to be aggressive.  I thought we did a little bit better job.  I think we can do a better job of attacking and penetrating, getting 15 footers or driving in and kicking.  But they adjusted, played a little bit more man defense, and did some things differently, so we'll see what happens on Thursday. 

 Q.  Deanna, do you think, Yolanda last year when she was ahead of you guys 2-1 she said that getting the final win of the series is toughest because you're kind of anticipating a victory.  Do you think that -- what in your opinion will make that getting that final win extremely tough? 
 DEANNA NOLAN:  Of course it's going to be tough, just because it's an elimination game for them.  But for us we just have to stay patient like we did tonight, move the ball around, knock down open shots, and get the ball inside, which creates open outside shots for us.  We just have to knock them down.  But of course it's going to be hard game to win.  But we are looking forward to it. 
 KAREN KASE:  Thanks a lot, ladies. 
 DEANNA NOLAN:  All right. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT