WNBA FINALS: MERCURY v SHOCK
September 8, 2007
Deanna Nolan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   KAREN KASE:  We'll go right to questions for Deanna.  If you want to go ahead and start with a quick brief opening statement on your overall impression of the game. 
 DEANNA NOLAN:  Well we came into this game--  well, I thought we were ready.  Unfortunately when you let a team get into a rhythm it's hard to slow that down.  Especially at the 3-point line.  That's what they and Diana live by.  And tonight they lived.  What, they hit like seven or eight in a row.  That kind of killed us. 
 KAREN KASE:  Any questions? 

 Q.  You talked all through the post season and the last couple years about how this team doesn't play well until it's got its back up against the wall.  Is that what you think happened today? 
 DEANNA NOLAN:  I don't think our backs are against the wall yet.  I just thought that tonight we just didn't show up.  We kept the game pretty close until towards the end of the second quarter.  It's just tonight the shots weren't falling, we wouldn't get to the loose balls, all the little things that we needed to do tonight. 

 Q.  Only 70 points tonight, do you attribute that to poor shooting or just better defense by Phoenix? 
 DEANNA NOLAN:  A little bit of both.  Poor shooting and then they did adjust to what we did in the first game. 
 Shots weren't falling tonight and it was making it hard for our first initial pass into the post and we didn't adjust because usually that second cutter in the post would be open, but we didn't adjust -- we did, but not all the time that we could get that second cutter to the basket. 

 Q.  You guys had a game like this last year, you lost Game 1 at home by 24.  Does that give you some confidence that you can overcome this and go back and still win the series? 
 DEANNA NOLAN:  Of course.  Like you said, we have been in this situation before.  Just not being a first game, it was the second game. 
 Something we can bounce back from and we know that we just have to win one in Phoenix to comeback here for Game 5. 
 KAREN KASE:  Thanks a lot, Deanna. 
 DEANNA NOLAN:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT