WNBA FINALS: MONARCHS v SHOCK
September 9, 2006
Deanna Nolan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DEANNA NOLAN:  You know, it feels great to be WNBA champions for the second time.  You know the first one is always special, but this one is, I think, even more special, just because of how much hard work we put in the season.  I don't think anyone expected us at all to be here.  More like a game 5, you know, everybody was expecting for Sac to win it in game 4, but I thought we showed a lot of heart and effort, just hard work in the second half to pull it out.  Winning the MVP is just an added bonus to it. 
I want to say MVP to my teammates, got me open and the ball at the right time.  I was just knocking down the shots. 

 Q.  You seem to be able to get wherever you wanted in the third quarter.  Coach mentioned that one of the keys at halftime was to beat the Monarchs down the floor.  I mean, how did that affect you in terms of, you know, getting to your spots? 
 DEANNA NOLAN:  I think it affected them a lot because we were running out and getting a lot of fastbreak points.  We were pushing it a lot more in the second half.  I think we had them on their heels in the second half. 
 We got a lot of easy buckets.  We cut the 8-point lead, 8-point deficit, in the half to 2 within two or three minutes.  That was a big push for us.  The crowd stayed behind us, gave us the energy and momentum. 

 Q.  Deanna, your coach was in here talking about how he would like to see this be the launching pad for you to be the best player in the WNBA, how do you feel about what he said? 
 DEANNA NOLAN:  I agree with him.  You know, everything that happens on the court, everything I do, everything I can do is up to me.  It's just a matter of me having that mindset and that effort every game to want to go out there and do it.  Sometimes you may not play a not-so-great team and you kind of float.  I'm sure you heard him say that word a lot about me, floating.  And you know I see what he's talking about.  Sometimes, you know, I can, of course I can get -- I think I can get any shot I want to, but it's times where, like he says, I float instead of not going off a pick hard.  Kind of floating, trying to get my teammates open, which is not a bad thing, but you know he wants me to be the best player I can be. 

 Q.  Could you talk about the shooter's mentality that you have, because in that first half you were only 4 of 13, missed the first 7 of 9.  What was the difference between then and obviously especially early in that third quarter? 
 DEANNA NOLAN:  I think once you always hit your first shot, you have just that focus of shooting more, just seeing if the second one goes in, and it did, and the third and the fourth went in.  So you kind of have that mentality and that focus.  You just are in that zone.  And that's what happened.  . 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT