SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 29, 2016
J.R. Roth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You didn't get off to a strong start as you wanted to.
J.R. ROTH: It was a bad start.  Even when I had some good birdie chances on 5 and 6 I missed them both.
It was a bad day, but it was a good week.  So, I'm going to try to take more of the good than the ugliness of today.  But that's the way it goes.
I wasn't tired, I felt great today.  I felt better today than I did yesterday.  But just didn't play very well starting out.  I got off to a rough start and kind of knocked me back a little bit.
Q. But no particular reason, it just wasn't feeling good?
J.R. ROTH: No, the first hole played really hard.  First hole was one of the hardest holes on the front nine.  My second shot hit a sprinkler cap and instead of just being pin high right off the green there to the right it was back up on the hill and not a real hard shot, but I just made a mess of the rest of the hole and made double bogey.
Q. We saw your shot on television on 17.  It looked like a good tee shot.
J.R. ROTH: It was a good tee shot and just didn't get the putt on line.  I had it right going all the way and if anything it might have gone a little to the right at the very end.
Q. What happened on 18?
J.R. ROTH: 18, just didn't hit a very good tee shot and had a long ways back.  Didn't hit a very good second shot.  Didn't hit a very good third shot, just kind of petered my way into the clubhouse.  So it was --
Q. This was quite a week for PGA pros as we spoke before.  At one point you and John Dal Corobbo were within three strokes of the lead.  That shows that things are possible, there are moments.
J.R. ROTH: Well, like I said, I think it's easier to compete against the seniors at our age than when we were kids playing against the guys who were kids then.  Just because they're into it more, they're still trying to cut their niche, carve that resume out, they're grinding it out.
They have got their resume, they have got their name, they have got their reputation and anything that comes along now is just gravy.  So, I mean they're trying, don't get me wrong, and they're still really good, but they may not be as hungry as they were 25 years ago.  I think now us as club pros, with the exception of me, I think most of them are all teaching.  When you teach you can make up your own schedule and you if you don't want to work for a week you don't have to work for a week.
Q. You're putting in what kind of work week total hours?
J.R. ROTH: I'm putting in 60 to 70 hours a week and I'm going to committee meetings and I'm --
Q. That's like when you were younger.
J.R. ROTH: -- setting up the range in the morning.  I'm doing everything that I was and more.
Q. In the early years.
J.R. ROTH: Yeah.  Yeah.
Q. That speaks a lot for itself.
J.R. ROTH: I got the same career job as I had 30 years ago.  And I'm happy to have it, don't get me wrong.  But at some point in time here I'm going to kind of cut back from doing that and but I got a family to support and no one's giving me anything, so I'm out there.
Q. You accomplished a few goals this week and maybe next time around some new goals.
J.R. ROTH: Well, my first goal was to make the cut, because I wasn't in the Senior Club Pro.  And thanks to Jim Woodward a few years back, we got that exemption.  So, at least I'm back in the Senior Club Pro.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT