SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2016
J.R. Roth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. We're trying to get your feelings about the way the club professionals have been performing this week and certainly you're in great position, you set the bar high.  Let's talk about what you've accomplished so far.
J.R. ROTH: Well, I think the club pros have been great.  It's a little bit easier competing against the Senior Tour players, so to speak, than when we were younger competing against the younger guys.  Because these guys have been there and done that.  They're hungry, but they're probably not quite as hungry.
And being an older guy, a lot of us don't work in the shop anymore full-time.  John's a full-time teacher.
Now I do have a full-time job where I'm working 60, 70 hours a week, so I'm kind of, I think, not the normal, if you take a look at the guys that are playing well this week, I would say most of them don't have your traditional club pro job.  They have some sort of a different PGA job.  Whether it's a teaching professional, director of instruction, a golf director that's more administrative, or they're just kind of a life member playing.
So I'm a little bit different in that I still have that nine to five job.
But I think it's easier for us to compete against the older guys now that we're older than it was when we were younger.  So it doesn't necessarily surprise me that some of us are playing really good, but it's great to see for sure.
Q. You would like to perform tomorrow and do something historic and we have never had two club professionals this high up in the top-10 or so.  We have had, obviously, Tom Wargo won it in 1993.
J.R. ROTH: And Starkjohann played great in 2009 at Canterbury.
Q. But we have two guys playing well, like you and John, it sets a new tempo and maybe some more motivation for you, too.
J.R. ROTH: It maybe adds some excitement for the PGA and it adds some excitement for our fellow pros to see a couple of us doing really well.  I'm sure John's going to play great tomorrow and I plan on playing great tomorrow and let's just see what happens.
Q. That 7th hole, you said it was a tough break for you and just go through a couple things about the round.
J.R. ROTH: I hit a bad tee shot and actually got it into the bunker.  I thought it was going in the water, but I got it in the bunker and then I hit a terrific shot out of the bunker and carried that mound and that bunker got it up top, but then it stayed up in the hillside really high.  It didn't come down at all.
It was a more difficult shot than I took it to be.  I didn't give it enough respect and almost chipped it off the green and then 3-putted.  It was just a really stupid 10 minute thing there, air bubble there.
Q. Otherwise, you've been playing pretty solid golf.
J.R. ROTH: I've been playing good.  No, I'm playing good.  I didn't putt as well as I did the first two days, but it's all good.  I'm real happy where I'm at and hopefully tomorrow will play really great.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT