U.S. SENIOR AMATEUR
September 30, 2015
Tom Brandes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  There were a lot of clutch shots by both of you.  Can you talk about the last few holes especially and then the playoff?  
TOM BRANDES: Yeah.  I will start with 15.  I seemed to cut that corner, get a little aggressive on that hole, and earlier in the week I caught the tree, and I did it again today.  I roped a 4-iron around the tree, and I was just trying to get it up -- that was a great up-and-down for me.  And then the next hole, how good is Steve out of that fairway bunker?  I mean, that's the shot that everyone fears, and that was just a great, great, great up-and-down for par there.   
17, let's see, I guess a couple routine pars, and then 18, that hole played much longer than it had all week, a little hurt and it was wet.  I mean, I had 9-iron in there during -- earlier in the week, 9-iron, 8-iron, and he hit hybrid, and I hit a little choke hold-off 4-iron, and those were a couple of really good shots, all things considered.   
 Q.  Your drive hit a tree?  
TOM BRANDES: Yeah, well, I saw it going, and then I chased Steve's caddie, son, said it hit the tree, and I saw it carom off -- yeah, I planned it.   
 Q.  Of course you did.  
TOM BRANDES: Yeah, call the bank shots.   
 Q.  How do you keep your composure when you're going on to extra holes?  
TOM BRANDES: You don't think about it.  It's just the way I was thinking about it is I love golf, and the way I thought about it is, hey, I'm getting to play more holes at a great golf course is the way I looked at it.  You kind of detach yourself from the moment, and I just -- I'm playing golf.  So that's how I tried to remain calm.   
 Q.  Living in the Pacific Northwest I assume you're used to soggy conditions, but what was the case this afternoon with that rain delay?  
TOM BRANDES: That was okay.  Actually this morning -- I love playing in overcast, no sun.  I didn't have sunscreen on, first time I haven't had sunscreen on all week, and it didn't bother me at all.  I'm a picker.  I'm not a digger.  So I think that comes from growing up in the Northwest.  Conditions were fine, like I said.  The course just got really long because of the dampness.   
 Q.  With all your wins in amateur golf, have you ever gotten this far in a playoff in match play?  
TOM BRANDES: You're going to make me think, aren't you?   
 Q.  Sorry.  
TOM BRANDES: No, I don't think so.  I've gone one hole, two holes in a couple of local things.  Well, I did go five holes in my first Washington State Amateur, and it was getting dark.  I ended up winning.  Yeah, I made a putt.  But yeah, that was five holes, and I really honestly thought we were going to go forever.  I mean, on 3, I said, you know what, I'm going to win or lose this thing right now, so that's why I hit 3-wood.   
 Q.  What was your number in there?  
TOM BRANDES: I had 210 to cover, and after that I didn't worry about it, I was just looking at that cover number, and a little hurt wind, so I knew I could take 3-wood and get it.   
But yeah, that could have been the thing, and I would have shaken Steve's hands.   
 Q.  With all the clutch putts he made in this round, on that last hole did you expect it to go in?  
TOM BRANDES: Oh, I expected his to definitely go in.  How good was the putt on 1?  How good was the chip on 2?  I was fully expecting it.  In fact, I was looking at my book thinking, what are we going to hit on the next hole.   
 Q.  Did you know anything about him before this match?  
TOM BRANDES: I played with Steve at the USGA State Team right up the street at Galloway.   
 Q.  What year was that?  
TOM BRANDES: Let's see, men's was -- it was '12.  I was paired with him.   
 Q.  Wow.  
TOM BRANDES: Yeah, in fact, all week, I said, he looks like Lanny Wadkins.  He does.  He resembles him.  Because they put the Washington team with the South Carolina team, so yeah, it's a small world.   
 Q.  Do you have a favorite hole on the course?  
TOM BRANDES: Oh, boy.  Well, the one that's on the plate, that's a really nice hole.   
 Q.  Which one is that?  
TOM BRANDES: 4.  Yeah, that's a -- I played it pretty good, but that's a really cool hole.   
 Q.  What's your strategy going into tomorrow?  
TOM BRANDES: Just keep hitting fairways and hitting greens and try to make some putts.   
 Q.  Have you ever played Chip before?  
TOM BRANDES: No, never been paired with Chip.  Through the tournament circuit I've crossed paths with him, but never been paired with him.  I'm looking forward to it.  He's a great guy.   
 Q.  There were a lot of conceded putts out there, especially towards the end of regulation.  Was that just a strategy on your part?  Was it just mutual respect?  
TOM BRANDES: We were both tired.  Yeah, he's a good putter and I'm a good putter, and we just -- yeah, I'm not going to -- I don't want to win a hole with him missing that, so yeah.  And also, I told him on 18, I said, hey, let's just get in before it rains again.   
 Q.  Did you bring up that state team experience on the first tee or in a practice round?  
TOM BRANDES: Yeah, well, I figured it out on the first green.  I was like, okay, I got it, you played, we paired -- and he goes, oh, yeah.  Yeah, it took me a while to figure it out.   
I've had a great year, and all my buddies back home are telling me I can win it because they see me play and how I'm playing.  Yeah, I mean, I'm not going to be Tiger Woods.  I mean, I'm not coming here expecting to win, but I've been playing well, and we'll see where it gets me.   
 Q.  No red shirt tomorrow?  
TOM BRANDES: No.   
 Q.  What would it mean if you do win, for your career?  
TOM BRANDES: You know, as an amateur, it's really not going to change my life.  All it's going to do is I'm going to get invited to a whole bunch of tournaments that I won't be able to play in anyway.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT