U.S. OPEN
August 26, 2016
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How much, if at all, does an Olympic year alter or change your preparation for the US Open?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I think it could either help you or not.  I think regardless, it's always a real privilege to play at the Olympics.   
 Q.  Shoulder?  How you feeling coming into the tournament?  You haven't played a lot.  Can you talk about how you're feeling both physically and mentally?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I have not played a lot, I haven't practiced a lot, but I'm just now starting to feel a little better.   
Hopefully just every day I will keep going higher.   
 Q.  Being better, is it physically you're feeling better?  Is the shoulder better now?  Or is it just being back on the court?  Can you elaborate a little bit?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, no, just shoulder-wise.   
 Q.  You have come in here before having played a lot; you have come in here before having not played a lot.  Is there any difference, or is the US Open the US Open?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, the US Open is obviously a special place.  I think usually I prefer to play more coming into the final Grand Slam of the year, but I really don't think -- there is nothing we can do about it.  You just have to make the best of every single opportunity.  That's all I can do now.   
 Q.  I think some media people were saying some things you said back when you were here in '99, the early days, the fact that you were slapping the ball around and not knowing what you were doing.  Maybe I'm exaggerating, but can you talk about your evolution just sort of as a player more recently with Patrick as far as efficiency and you view yourself more as a powerfully efficient player?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I just feel like I try to be as efficient as I can out on the court.  That's not always possible.  But I just feel like my game has matured a lot overall, and mentally sometimes I definitely do put a little more pressure on myself than I did a long time ago. (Indiscernible - photographer interference.)   
I also think that's a good thing, because I only expect the best from myself and that's what I want to do.  I always did.   
 Q.  To follow-up, do you find during a point sort of when, what shot to hit better than you used to?  When to pounce on a ball?  Counting more on your serves?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I think I was always kind of keen on where to hit the ball.  I think what made me different was I always was able to try to know where to go.   
And, yeah.   
 Q.  How tough were these last couple of weeks for you?  Disappointing losses in Brazil and going to Cincinnati and practicing but not playing, which we don't see you do all that often.  How tough has it been to reset, short turnaround between Olympics and here?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, it wasn't very easy I think physically.  Just really trying so hard and trying everything to get better.   
But, yeah, just -- at the end of the day I knew I gave the best effort I could, and it just wasn't enough.  I just -- Olympics I just practiced two days before playing my match.  It's not ideal, but it was all I could do.   
So, you know, like I said.  I'm starting to feel better now, and that's really positive.   
 Q.  The shoulder issues, has it affected you before and how long before?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Ironically enough, the day after the finals of Wimbledon.  I was like, how (indiscernible - photographer interference.)  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  When you walked on the grounds here for the first time, this tournament, did you feel a surge of energy?  Did you feel -- you know, when you left here you weren't happy last year?  Can you describe kind of the sensations that you went through coming back this year?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I always feel really happy walking out at any Grand Slam (smiling).  I feel so many wonderful memories and moments.   
Yeah, I feel really good about it.  Same with coming here to New York.  It's always a good feeling.   
 Q.  You play a tough player in the first round, Makarova.  What are your thoughts about that match and about having such a tough match in round one?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I think it's okay.  I'm okay with it.  I think I try to look at it we all always have tough matches.  I played her I think in the semis I think before.  I know she's a good player.  I've just got to do the best I can.   
 Q.  What are the particulars of her game that have impressed you the most?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, you know, she's a big fighter.  She never really stops.   
I think one thing I think that's pretty impressive is she's pretty -- she gets a lot of balls back.  You think she's not super quick, but she is.  (Indiscernible.)   
 Q.  How do you balance over the next couple of days?  How will you -- seems like you need rest but trying to get prepared.  What's kind of the priority?  Getting the practice in or...  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Somehow managing to do both.  Definitely am trying to practice more because I don't want to go into an event without having practiced.  Just been doing that a lot.  A lot of physical therapy.   
 Q.  I understand there is a racquet change in 2017.  Can you tell us the details of that and what precipitated the change?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: There is a lot of new technology involved in the racquets, so I'm always looking for something that can take me to a new level, take my game to a new level.  And, you know, I try to stay as on top of it as I can.  Obviously the color change, that's exciting, too.   
 Q.  I'm curious, there are a lot of athletes, people in general, who are really excited to meet you.  Back at the Olympics or in general, is there someone that you were excited to meet for the first time?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, I'm always excited to see all the athletes.  I have met a lot of the athletes, actually (smiling).  But it's always -- it's just an incredible environment.   
 Q.  Have you had an opportunity to practice under the roof?  If so, what are your observations?  If not, have you at least looked at it and gotten a feel for it?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yes, I have had opportunity to practice under the roof.  It was nice.  Felt like a amazing, cool arena.   
 Q.  More intimate, perhaps?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: No.  It feels like a big arena.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  How different is the pressure for you this year looking at 23 as opposed to last year when you had that possibility of the slam?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I think each is different.  I just really -- at this point, I'm taking it a day at a time.   
I don't know.  I think I just am more relaxed, for sure.   
 Q.  How conscious are you of, just again, efficiency as far as prolonging your career and staying near the top of your game?  Is that something that's in your mind when you're been practicing, working, playing?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, no, I don't think about -- I mean, I'm practicing a lot when I can and working out a lot.  I'm not necessarily doing less than I was ten years ago or five years ago.  Probably more now.   
 Q.  Are you doing it better?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I'm definitely even more intense, if that's possible.  But, who knows if it's better.   
 Q.  When was the last time you actually felt you had full power on your serve and were able to dominate on your serve the way we were able to see you do in your career?  Scale of 1 to 10, where do you put yourself physically?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Where do I put myself...   
 Q.  Physically in terms of your fitness?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Oh, I'm really fit right now.  I mean, I think I did serve pretty well at Wimbledon this year.  I felt like I was able to hit aces when I wanted to.  So, yeah, couple months ago, couple -- few weeks ago.   
 Q.  A lot of American women in the main draw this year.  How encouraging is it to see that next wave of Americans coming through, and who has impressed you among the up and coming American players?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, it's always good.  There was a ton of American players in the draw last year, as well.   
It's so good to see so many players in the draw.  I think right now Madison is probably leading the pack with the new young Americans doing well, and Sloane is really -- she's won like three or four tournaments this year.   
Yeah, those two are really just leading the pack of the new young guns.   
 Q.  Sloane pulled out this morning.  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Oh.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Oh, okay.   
 Q.  How about your sister?  Last year you had a big night match here, I believe.  She's climbed up further in the rankings.  What's it say about her to kind of persevere through what she's been through to really work her way up even at this age?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I just think it says a lot about her and her determination and her character, and I think she has such deep character.  It's something that I totally admire.   
 Q.  What's it like for you to not have Roger Federer here and what are your thoughts about his absence and his future?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: It's always a shame to have Roger not in the tournament, but I think he said he wanted to make sure he's well and get ready for his future.   
That's also a positive because he said he wanted to continue to play.  I definitely look forward to seeing him in the draws later on.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT