ROLAND GARROS
June 3, 2016
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. WILLIAMS/K. Bertens
7-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How crucial was the first set?  We see ups and downs of both players.  It was a very close set.
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I think the first set was obviously really crucial.  You know, we both had a couple -- at least a set point there.
You know, I think we both were just playing really well.  I mean, yeah, it was...  That was...
Q. You played KiKi at the US Open, also.  What was the difference?  We could see many similarities in this match, as well.
SERENA WILLIAMS: I think she obviously has a lot more confidence.  She's had a couple big wins in this tournament.  Being in the semifinals of a Grand Slam and having nothing to lose just really makes a big difference.
Q. Your quality to go deep as possible, to dig out those set points?
SERENA WILLIAMS: What?
Q. Is your quality to go even more deeper to find a solution to win set points?  You could have lost, as well.
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I guess.  I had a couple in there, and she did too.  Yeah, I guess.
Q. Marion Bartoli said during her commentary that you were having issues with your adductor, that you were getting treatment on.  Is that correct?
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I heard she said that.  I don't know.  I'll have to ask her.
Q. From your point of view, being the one with the adductor, is that correct?
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah I have had some issues, but, you know, it is what it is.
Q. KiKi had her issues.  She had a calf problem.  Is it survival of the fittest this tournament?
SERENA WILLIAMS: I guess so.  You know, I think it's survival of who can do the best.
Q. Are you tired when you get to the last game?  Because at the end of the tournament is mentally or physically?
SERENA WILLIAMS: I think it's definitely both.  You know, I feel like you have to be still mentally alive, and obviously you need to be physically alive and ready for everything.
Q. Can you just talk about the challenge that Muguruza poses for the final?  You played her in a Grand Slam final already.  And also if your mindset is different going into this final versus the last couple.
SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't think my mindset is any different.  Obviously I want to do well and I would like to win tomorrow.
But, you know, I think Muguruza has been playing really well.  She's been playing a really aggressive game and going for her shots.  Regardless, I think it will be a good match.  I mean, last time we played here in France she was able to win the match.
I learned so much from that match.  You know, I hate to lose, but when I do, you know, I hope it was worth it.  That match was definitely one of those that was kind of needed and worth it.
So I look forward to, you know, hopefully learning from that.
Q. It took you a while to reach the mark of 18 slams that Chrissie and Martina had, and now it's taking you a little while to reach Steffi's mark.  Just talk about the process, big, historical markers.  Is that something a little harder for you?  What will it mean when you eventually get to the 22 mark?
SERENA WILLIAMS: You know, if I get there it will be great.  I guess you can say it took me a while to get to 18, considering, you know, I'm the only one on tour that had 18.
You know, I guess it's how you look at it.
The same with 21 and trying to get to another one.  Nothing I can do about it.  The only thing can I do is just play to win the tournament and that's it.
Q. What were some of the things you learned from that Muguruza match here a couple years ago?
SERENA WILLIAMS: A lot.  A ton.  I don't really want to elaborate, but it was a really unbelievable lesson for me.  It propelled me to many, many, many wins after that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT