ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2016
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. WILLIAMS/E. Svitolina
6-1, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Talk about the wait of the last few days, what were you doing, how you could practice, what it was like when you got back on the court, conditions, things like that.
SERENA WILLIAMS: Let's see, the last couple of days.  I hit yesterday a little bit in an indoors facility, and I took a nap and stayed here until I got canceled.  I don't know what I did the day before.  Probably something similar.
I'm really okay with the rain, though.  It doesn't bother me at all.
Q. After so many memorable moments and amazing milestones over the years, does it get harder on a cold, wet court, not a very full crowd?  Does it get harder as you go on to actually get up for those sort of games?
SERENA WILLIAMS: I think every day, for me, is important to get up for all my matches, you know, first round to the last round.  I feel like the moment I step on the court that's all I see, is the ball and, you know, the opportunity to do the best I can.
Q. Thoughts on that match overall.  1-1; just over an hour; seemed pretty straightforward.  Do you feel good about your form going into the second week here?
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I feel okay.  I feel it was a better match for me.  She's a really good player.  She gets a lot of balls back, you know.  So it was a really -- it was really good for me to play that.
Q. What's your position on the playability of the courts?  Some players yesterday were complaining about the conditions.  Secondly, how do you feel about the possibility of playing four consecutive days to make the final?  Do you think that's acceptable?  Reasonable?
SERENA WILLIAMS: I think that would be to win.  I wasn't out there yesterday, so I didn't get a chance to play.  I only played indoors.  I don't really know what the conditions were.  Obviously it was raining, it was cold, and I just never got a chance to step out on the court.
I'm sure it was really tricky and must have been really difficult to keep warming up and keep going, going, going.  I was really fortunate to get my match in and out today, so that worked out well.
And, I don't remember the other...
Oh, four in a row.  I think for us it's -- you know, when we play regular tournaments you play four, five matches in a row.  It's what happens.  In Rome I played four in a row?  Five?  I don't know.
But, you know, in Miami and Indian Wells you just play every day.  It's something you just get used to.  It's totally fine I think for me and for everyone.
Q. If you had to play two in a day would that be acceptable?
SERENA WILLIAMS: I have done that once before, actually.  Charleston I think I played like the 1:00 and the 7:00 match.  It was crazy (smiling).
No, I don't think they would do that though here.  This is a Grand Slam, and I think we would have to find a different solution.
Q. You have talked about how much you like and love to play.  Has that always been the case since you first stepped on the clay courts?
SERENA WILLIAMS: I have always liked playing on clay.  Unfortunately I haven't always done great here.
But, you know, I have always enjoyed sliding; I have always enjoyed playing.  I think in the recent years I have just been more consistent on it and playing a better clay court game.
Q. You looked in really great form today in that match.  How much does your actual previous match matter to you?  Say you play really well today.  Do you carry confidence over to the next round, or is it just a whole new ballgame?
SERENA WILLIAMS: I think it's definitely a whole new ballgame.  When I don't play well, however, I tend to like feel like -- I didn't play my best in the third round and I really wanted to come out and do a lot better and prove that I can do better than that.
So that's something I really wanted to do today.
Q. You play Putinseva next who I know was coached by Patrick before he was with you.  What do you know about her?  I know you have played her before; she's a unique sort of energy on court.
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I have actually played her a couple of times, and most recently in Indian Wells.  You know, she's a tough player.  She's really hungry.  I feel like she gives 200% on every single point.  You know, she's a fighter.
I think, you know, I feel like I'm a little bit that way myself, too.  I give everything on every point.  I'm a fighter.  I think, you know, she and I both are just trying to win this match to go to the next round.
Q. You mentioned you like sliding.  Was the surface slidable today?  Was it a little stickier than normal?
SERENA WILLIAMS: It was definitely a little stickier than normal.  I'm not even sure if I slid a lot today.  I don't think so.
Q. I don't know how much you have paid attention to Shelby Rogers' run.  She is in the quarterfinals and ranked 108th in the world.  Have you paid attention to that?  Do you know her well?
SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, I don't know her well, but I have obviously seen her do well here and beating a lot of players.  And convincingly at some point.
It's always good to see an American do really well.  I have seen her play really good in Canada a couple of years ago.  I have seen her play a lot, actually.
It's good.  It's really good for her and for USA, too.
Q. Obviously we're here in Paris.  You're trying to win a very, very important tennis tournament.  But I have a question:  In our country we are having a major debate now whether a certain political figure is suitable or not suitable for the presidency.  You have Donald Trump.  You helped open his facility in Virginia.  Could you comment on your thoughts about him?
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I have met him several times, as I live in Palm Beach and everyone in Palm Beach kind of know each other.  I don't get involved in politics.  I don't vote.  It goes back to my religion, and I'm not involved at all in that political scene.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT