ROLAND GARROS
May 20, 2016
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How much do you feel that win in Rome really gave you the confidence coming into this year?  Did that set things right for you?
SERENA WILLIAMS: It felt good to win in Rome, obviously.  I was feeling pretty confident, I think, just going into some of those matches.  Especially the last few I felt a lot better.
Even if I'd have lost, I feel like some of those matches really gave me the match play that I needed.
Q. How do you feel about your year as a whole?  I guess it's been a bit up and down; is that fair to say?
SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't know.  Obviously for me, if I'm not winning I'm not happy about my year.  Four tournaments, three finals isn't bad for I think everyone else.  Then again I'm not everyone else.
So that's just kind of how I look at it.
Q. You've got 70 titles to your name.  So can you expand a bit on that period between Cincinnati and here?  How does a champion really cope with that?  Because you were playing well but no titles.  Does it matter?
SERENA WILLIAMS: I played four tournaments, US Open, Australian Open, and then maybe a couple more, so I guess when you win all the time, if you go a couple of tournaments and don't win them it's like you're in a drought.
But, hey, for me, winning 70 is amazing.  I had forgotten that I was getting close to 70, so I never have seen 70 look so good.  (Laughter.)
Q. Is there a different mindset for you when you're defending a title as opposed to going in and trying to win it without being the defending champion?
SERENA WILLIAMS: I think in the past there was.  I think now it's different because I want to win more than I think most people ever, but also I think it's different now because I don't have anything to prove and I don't have anything -- it's just a different feeling.
Whereas five, ten years ago, oh, I'm defending and I feel that pressure.  Now it's like I'm defending, I'm in Paris, it's cool, and I'm having, you know, the time of my life.  I'm just happy to be here.
Q. How often do you think back about that run last year?  When you think about it now, how miraculous does it seem getting through it all and going through that last year?
SERENA WILLIAMS: I think about it a lot and I still don't know how I got through it.  Are you talking Roland Garros or...
Yeah, just don't know.  In the locker room I was -- the lady was, How are you?  Are you okay?  Last time she saw me I was like -- my eyes were glassy and I was just not doing well.
Yeah, it's just -- I think that's probably going to be something that always sits out in my mind.  Like, Wow, of all titles, that was crazy that I was able to win this one last year.
Q. There has been talk of double security here at the French Open.  How have you felt it as a player?  Also for your apartment in Paris, has the city felt different since November?
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah.  It's definitely interesting.  I mean, that's something I think a lot of the players wanted, as well, is a little bit more security.  You know, hopefully.  We'll see.  You know, we just want to be here.  We want to do what we do.  We just want to play tennis.  We want to enjoy ourselves and just live our lives.
That's all we want to do.
Q. More security in particular here?
SERENA WILLIAMS: Than it has been in the past few years, yeah.
Q. Looking back to all the health issues you were suffering for the fortnight last year, are you going to do anything different here this year?  Are you going to eat differently or are you going to conduct your life any differently?  Did you learn any lessons last year?
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah.  I take Vitamin C every single night.  So I'm like, okay, that's basically all I can do.
I'm just really trying to regulate my temperature.  You know, like it's so cold again this year, so it's like, Ahhh.  So hopefully it will heat up a little bit.
But I have thought about that.  If that happens again I'm not sure I can get through that again.  I'm like, Okay, every night I have this program.  Make sure I have my vitamins and just be healthy.
Q. There has been a lot of talk in the men's and women's game about when the next generation is going to come through.  Martina Navratilova said to us the other day that basically Serena will relinquish the No. 1 when she wants to relinquish No. 1.  How do you maintain your desire to keep being at the top all this time?
SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, that's a really good question.  I have thought of different answers many times, and I think it just boils down to this is what I do.  I'm very competitive on the court, playing Uno, or whatever.  (Laughter.)
I'm just like I like to do the best that I can, and if not I work hard.  I'll figure out a new way to be the best that I can be in my potential.  Honestly, I just think I'm just blessed to be able to be good at what I do.
Q. You mentioned that it has been colder here, this week, anyway, in the runup.  How have the practices been?  You have hit out there a couple of times.  How is your body responding after Rome?
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, practices have been great.  It's just so cold.  Today at the end of practice I literally put on my hoodie because my ears were cold.  It's like, aye, aye, aye.  Best thing about Roland Garros, it gets warm, but just like in the semifinals.  It's like you kind of have to do good to see the good weather.
Q. You and Roger have been in sort of step through your careers.  He's not here.  How do you feel about that?  Does it feel strange he's not playing in the slam?
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I think he plays most slams, so definitely -- 65 in a row?  That's a lot.  Whoo, cha!  I don't know.  I think it's just pretty awesome, but it means he cares about his future and the Olympics this year and Wimbledon and US Open.
He probably wants to give himself the best chance.  It's a shame not to see him in the draw.  He's always such a staple.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT