ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2016
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WILLIAMS/T. Pereira   
6-2, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What are the qualities that make a good hitting partner?  What makes Robbye Poole a good partner?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I think, you know, one of the main qualities is probably patience, especially with someone like me.  You have to be really patient, because I'm very intense on the court, because I want to do so well in practice.   
So, yeah, I just have to be patient with that.   
 Q.  It seemed like a lot of the fans out there were really excited to see both you and Venus back to back on the court.  Is that also cool for you guys?  Are you just so focused on your own match that you don't notice it?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I think we're unfortunately really focused on our match.  And I say "unfortunately" because in a few years we'll be like, Wow, that's a great moment.  But right now we have to be focused on what we want to do in going out there and winning the match.   
 Q.  Did you see her when you walked off?  Did you guys pass each other?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah.  There is a little time between the matches, so, yeah.   
 Q.  I have seen you doing things on Snapchat.  Could you describe to us why you are on Snapchat and what you want to do on it?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I'm just on it because it's super fun.  I just -- I don't really have a lot to do.  I just get bored so I just kind of just play on my phone.  I guess I post a lot of stories.  It's fun, though.   
 Q.  You have had some tussles out on that court.  How does that court feel, atmosphere-wise and surface-wise, compared to Chatrier?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I think this year it feels really, really, really good.  You know, it definitely has some strange bounces more than I think that Chatrier.   
But it feels really good this year.   
 Q.  The atmosphere?  Does it feel intimate?  Does it feel like you're closer to the fans?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: It's definitely a more intimate space.  It's huge.  It's bigger than stadiums in other tournaments.  So it's like a double stadium.  So even though it's not the center court, it's still a huge court.   
 Q.  How have the Grand Slams changed for you over the years compared to early when you were playing them at the beginning of your career to now?  Are they more of a focus or have they always been the end-all/be-all for you?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I think they have always been super important for me, but obviously as time goes on they are more of a focus.  Yeah.   
 Q.  I'm sure you have seen and heard it all, but Pereira makes quite an interesting noise when she strikes the ball.  Is that distracting at all?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: No, it's not distracting.  Honestly I thought it would be, because I saw her play in Rome, and I was like, Wow, she makes a lot of noise.  But today I was so focused on me and my grunting and, you know, I really didn't think it was too much.  So, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT