ROLAND GARROS
May 24, 2016
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WILLIAMS/M. Rybarikova   
6-2, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Short start for you today.  How are you feeling out there?  Would you like to get more time on court?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, it was a little short for me.  But I think in my career if I don't have it by now I need to look into something different.   
So I'm okay.  I'm okay with that.   
 Q.  Was it tough to play in that cold?  When was the last time you played in conditions like that?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I'm not a cold-weather person.  It's been really tough.  Today was -- it was warmer, I think, a couple matches before, but by the time I got out there, it was just really cold.   
I don't like playing in cold weather.  But everything felt pretty good, so it was okay.   
 Q.  I just want to know if you are feeling physically fit this year and if you're healthy.  I remember that last year you struggled with some health problems.  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, this year I feel good so far.  Last year this time I felt good, too.   
So I'm just going to -- you know, I'm just really, really loading up the Vitamin Cs and water so I can hopefully stay healthy.   
 Q.  Does it hammer home how long you have been in this sport when there are retired players younger than you interviewing you on court?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, no, when -- when they were introducing me, they were like, The 15th time, I was like, Wow, this is too many.  It was a lot.  I was thinking that's a lot.   
But sometimes I do think about some players, and I'm like, Wow, I played them and now they're like coaching and they have grandkids, you know.  (Laughter.)   
Yeah, it's pretty intense.   
 Q.  I know Kim is around and Justine is around.  Have you talked to any of them?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I saw Justine for the first time today.  I didn't even realize she was coaching.  I was like, gosh, it's a little bit surreal.   
I haven't seen Kim this tournament, but I have seen her around, obviously.  Yeah.   
Hey, you know what, everyone is doing what they want to do.   
 Q.  Did you and Justine chat?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: No, she was actually on the court.  I was just passing by.   
 Q.  Can you warm things up with a few comments about "Lemonade," doing it?  Was it fun?  A little bit about Beyoncé.  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, it was really fun.  It was a little bit -- it wasn't really last minute, but it was just the choreography was last minute, so that was interesting.   
It was fun.  I really enjoyed the experience.  I know the director since I was like nine or ten.  So that worked out, and I have known Beyoncé, too, for a minute, too.  So it was really, really easy to pull it together and just to do it.   
 Q.  Any interesting feedback about it?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I mean, it's all been extremely positive.  It was something that was really fun.   
Yeah, I think people were a little surprised that I could dance, I guess, like that, per se.  But, you know, it's just all been really good feedback.   
 Q.  I'm curious, you have very much taken to Snapchat, and I'm wondering, it's one of the social mediums you can't really get feedback on.  I know that's what a lot of players struggle with on a daily basis is getting threats or, you know, negative comments coming through on Twitter, Facebook.  I'm curious if that's one of the reasons you have really enjoyed putting yourself out there and connecting with that app and your fans but not necessarily getting the negatives that way?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I absolutely love that about Snapchat.  Like, Oh, I don't have to deal with the really mean trolls out there and the comments.  I don't read comments, but then there is always some that kind of pop up.   
So it's just like, you know, I don't have to be judged, at least, you know, on Snapchat.  I don't have to be judged about whatever.  And I'm obsessed with the filters (smiling).  That's my favorite part, the filters.   
 Q.  You switched to the thinner headband recently.  Is there rationale behind that?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I have been wanting to do it.  I was going to do it in Australia.  I didn't.  I ended up losing.  So, I was like, you know what?  Let's just start fresh.  I just needed a change, and, yeah, I think it's sleek.   
 Q.  Talk a little bit about the Olympics.  Have you ever been to Rio?  Do you have some Brazilian friends?  Looking forward?  Talk a little bit.  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I have a lot of Brazilian friends, but they live in the States.  I don't think I have been to Rio.  I think I have been to Sao Paulo, and, yeah, I don't think I have been to Rio.   
I mean, I actually was literally just talking seconds ago to Venus about the Olympics and how excited we are to kind of get there.  I was like, I've got to do the opening ceremonies this year.   
Usually the tennis is usually the same day.  So we'll see.  Hopefully I'll be able to make something.  Yeah, it's just going to be a really cool experience and I'm really excited about it.   
 Q.  Who is the most interesting and fun Olympic athlete you have met?  Have you ever met any gymnasts, for instance?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Gosh, I don't know.  I think everyone has been super exciting, even historically, meaning like, you know, older people, really cool.   
So I don't think I can single anyone out.   
 Q.  You haven't been playing doubles as much in recent years at the slams.  How does that change the dynamic for you in terms of preparation or when it's cold out, whatever?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah.  It just is going to -- we haven't been playing that much, and we haven't been winning that much.  Hopefully tomorrow we'll do what we can.  If anything, I can use it as a good practice match.  Hopefully I won't have a fit of laughter like I did in Rome, oh, my God.   
But actually, hopefully I will, because it's fun when I laugh that much.  But it was -- whatever.  We just have fun out there, and I'm always laughing at Venus.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT