US OPEN
August 29, 2020
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. There's so much going on right now in the tennis world socially, politically, talk about a breakaway tour on the men's side.  Your reaction to this point in the tennis world and how you're digesting all this?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   About the breakaway tour?
Q. There's talk on the men's side of forming a separate group from the ATP.  Right now is such an interesting time in tennis.  I wanted your reaction to that.
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I don't know.  I just think it's a chaotic year.  People are understanding and trying new things.  I can't really comment on what I don't know.
Q. What do you think of Naomi's decision to boycott the semifinal?  Your larger thoughts on athletes in the NBA and WNBA protesting, what athletes can hope to achieve through these protests?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, there's been a lot of stuff going on, as we know.  I think that was Naomi's decision.  If it was a good decision for her, that's what she felt was the right decision.  I think that was her decision.  It was good for her to come to that decision.
As for me, you all know how I feel.  I just feel like it's, you know, a lot of injust [sic] going on.  I have other beliefs, more spiritual beliefs.
Q. Obviously everything feels like it's upside down this year in the schedule.  Normally this time of year you would be feeling a little fatigued.  How are you feeling coming into the Open right now physically and mentally?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I think you put it perfectly.  Normally you feel a little more worn in, ready to get this final slam over.  But it's not even the final slam any more, at least for this year.
I don't really know how to feel.  I'm definitely not fatigued in the sense of match play at all, or even physically.
Q. You've been at 23 Grand Slam titles for a while now.  You've come very close getting to 24.  How much is that still a goal for you?  How much would it mean for you to get to that number?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I've been definitely proudly stuck here, party of one.  I'm pretty happy about it.
Obviously I'm never satisfied.  That's been the story of my career.  So, yeah, it is what it is.  I took a year and a half off for a baby.  So I don't know.  It's like I'll never be satisfied until I retire.  I'm never going to stop until I retire.  It's just my personality.  That's how I got to be here, so yeah...






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT