BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 15, 2016
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WILLIAMS/K. Bondarenko   
6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Through first few matches and into the quarterfinals.  How would you rate your game right now?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I feel okay.  You know, I'm just happy to be in the quarters after three matches, so I feel all right.   
 Q.  As a perfectionist, what do you think you did well and what were you not happy with?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't know.  I think I just hit a few errors.  I haven't been making that many errors in the past, so just have to cut back on my errors and I'll be fine.   
 Q.  You've only lost a couple sets so far this year.  Do you feel like overall your consistency from start to finish of the matches may be better than last year so far?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, so far I think my consistency has been well; being aggressive has been well; everything that I've wanted to do I've kind of been doing.   
Just want to kind of keep that up.   
 Q.  Seemed like there were a few times during your match where you got maybe a little frustrated with yourself.  Can you elaborate on that?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I think it's just trying to get myself pumped up.  I had a lot of opportunities and made a few key simple errors that I probably shouldn't be making right now.   
So I was just really trying to pull myself together in those moments.   
 Q.  You'll play Simona Halep in the quarters.   You've some tough battles in the past; some not so tough.  What particular challenge does she pose to you?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, I really like her game.  I like how she's aggressive.  She's a fighter.  She killed me at one point, so I definitely have to be ready.   
Yeah, and it'll be a really good match I think for both of us to kind of see where we want to be at at this point in the year.   
 Q.  What's your favorite time of day to play?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Today was perfect.  You know, maybe hour earlier would've been good.   
 Q.  Twilight?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Third match, second match.   
 Q.  Sp afternoon?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah.   
 Q.  If you could pick the time?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Third after 11:00.  I'm okay with second, too.   
 Q.  What is it about that time of day?  Is it just the conditions?  Just time to get yourself going?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Enough time to get me going.  I'm more awake.  Yeah, just start moving better.  I don't like waking up too early, so...   
 Q.  Not a morning person?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: No, I do well in morning matches though because I kind of have to force myself to be extra into it.  But honestly.  Any match, any time, any day, anywhere.  It is what it is at this point.   
 Q.  Start of this tournament you were talking about vegan and going raw.  Just curious, for this tournament did you attempt that?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Oh, no, no.  I said I did -- no.  I've been eating tacos every night, so no chance.  I don't eat red meat so, but I have not eaten red meat in a very, very, very long time.   
Yeah.   
 Q.  You said you did it one final for the French Open and you won it.  Has there been any serious thoughts in your mind that you'll try to again at a big event or just do it to see if you...  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I think generally during a tournament I eat a lot cleaner.  I don't really eat tons of meats or you know, usually stick to more fish.   
You know, I would like to try that again, you know, but we'll see.   
 Q.  Have you ever talked to other athletes that have done it?  There is a local boxer that used to do it for his training camps; Tony Gonzalez has done it.  Have you ever talked to other athletes about that?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: No, I talked to Venus about it and I know a few actors that have done it.  You know, I think it's just really good to clean out your system sometimes just to get rid of all the waste and things like that that are just in your system and let the earth from the plants really clean you out.   
So I'm a big believer in that.  Every year I always do an herbal cleanse and really either healthy for a couple weeks and really eat lots of raw greens and veggies.   
From a health standpoint, I just want to be as healthy as I can be, not on for sure tennis, but for my life in general.   
 Q.  Is it something you can maintain during like a tournament, do you think?  You did it once and you were successful.  Do you think that's something that's sustainable for an athlete competing at a high level or something more for the off-season?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I think it's definitely able.  It's easy.  I don't think it's easy, but I think it's pretty -- you can definitely do it.  I can definitely do it.  It's just choosing to do it or not to do it.   
 Q.  Has anything felt different being here than last year so far?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I'm a little more calm this year.  Last year I was obviously pretty nervous.  My expectations were super low.   
You know, this year I'm not as nervous and I'm just excited to return again.  Every time I step on the court and people cheer for me, it's just a different feeling.   
 Q.  With all the endorsements you've got and the identity that you have around the world, have you ever considered yourself as a brand?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I think so indeed.  I think when you are representing so much stuff and you have your own businesses and things of that nature, I do consider Serena Williams a brand as well as a person.   
But it is indeed a brand.  It's a good brand.  I'd invest in it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT