WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 19, 2015
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/T. Pironkova
  7‑5, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

Q. How is everything feeling physically? Maybe everything wasn't all together in Toronto. 
SERENA WILLIAMS: It's okay. I'm feeling better. I feel fit, which is a start. Yeah, that feels good. 

Q. The videos you have been doing, you did one in Toronto and then I think you did one earlier for Cincinnati. You're getting ready for some promotional commercial or whatnot? 
SERENA WILLIAMS: (Looking confused.) I don't know. Like what do you mean? 

Q. Isn't there a promotional commercial that's getting ready to be rolled out?
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I did that for Beats, but I don't remember doing anything in Toronto. I don't think so. 
But I did ‑‑yeah, that's coming out, I don't know, probably around NewYork. Maybe a little after. I'm not sure.

Q. Is that something that kind of takes away from your time? Because I know you're on court practicing. You have to travel. It's just a lot of demand on you right now. 
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, it's a ton of demands, and I pretty much say no to everything. Sometimes you can't say no, though. You have to just kind of suck it up and be happy about it, about the opportunity. 
So that's how I have to think about it.

Q. Talk about the match today. She held in there with you until late in the first set where you were able to break her at love. Just take us through that game in particular. 
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, she was playing really well in that game. I was just like, Okay, it's tiebreak time. Returning. Just trying to play better every game. 
You know, she's really getting a lot of balls back, so I was just really trying to fight and stay in there.

Q. You used to play New Haven back earlier in your career. 
SERENA WILLIAMS: I have never played New Haven. I think Venus has always played it.

Q. But you used to play Sydney before a slam. 
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yes.

Q. You haven't done that in a long time. When did that become your thinking that that was something you shouldn't be doing? How much does all this sponsor stuff happening before every slam make it tough to be every place besides that place, I guess? 
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, yeah, I guess I have no option to play New Haven because everyone‑‑ NewYork is such a big opportunity for promotion, I guess. 
And then Sydney I just don't play because I usually try to play the week before and get warmed up. There's no really particular other reason.

Q. All the attention is on you having the slam run. I wonder if you would still call Indian Wells and what happened there the most important thing moment of your season? 
SERENA WILLIAMS: No, I think it all depends on what happens in the next four weeks. 
But, yeah, I think Indian Wells as of now was pretty amazing. I think Serena Slam 2.0, winning Wimbledon was pretty awesome, too. So really things you don't expect and doing really well works out. 

Q. What do you expect in NewYork? What do you think that will be like?
SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't know. I don't know yet. I'm just ‑‑I haven't thought too much about it, but we'll see.

Q. First time you have had to play after coming back from a loss. Any different philosophy today?
SERENA WILLIAMS: No. Obviously I'm a perfectionist and I want to do really well and I want to win. I'm always a little more, you know, angry or focused, especially if it's a loss that I could have prevented. It's different if you can't prevent it, but it feels better.

Q. You're no stranger to a little bit drama. What do you make of all the drama on the men's tours last week?
SERENA WILLIAMS: As I said, I am no longer involved in controversy. (Laughter.) Don't put me in that. 

Q. So have you talked to Venus today?
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I talked to her today and yesterday. Uh‑huh, we talk a lot.

Q. How is she doing?
SERENA WILLIAMS: She's okay. Her spirits are okay. 

Q. You said, I think it was yesterday, that you're not approaching this like trying to defend your championship from last year. What did it feel like being out there today? Did it feel familiar for you being out there, the way you played last year?
SERENA WILLIAMS: I just think there is so much going on that I don't even really have to think about this. It's like, you know, a moment where I'm pretty confident where I am, and I want to keep winning, obviously, but I start thinking that I want to play better for not only this tournament but for the rest of the year. 
So I don't really feel any pressure, because I really don't feel like I have been playing particularly well this summer. So I don't really feel that amount of pressure to do fabulous. Obviously I want to. 

Q. How do you feel about your game, where it's at right now in preparation for the Open?
SERENA WILLIAMS: I think it could be a lot better. It's not where I would want it ideally, but, you know, I'm going to have to fix that more mentally than anything. 
I think once I lock in there I will be okay.

Q. (Question regarding drama with WTA more than ATP.) I think that's a stereotype. Is that fair? Represent how the tour has been during your career?
SERENA WILLIAMS: Um, you mean there is more drama on the ladies' tour? 

Q. Yeah. I think people generally have that perception. 
SERENA WILLIAMS: And now they are saying there is more drama on the men's tour? 
Listen, you tell me, but like I said, I'm not involved in no drama. My drama days is over. 
But if you want to spill the tea, I'm ready to hear. (Laughter.)

Q. You had 11 service games today, and six of those you had two or more aces. Were you going for more aces today?
SERENA WILLIAMS: No, actually I wasn't. You know, she stands like in the middle of the court, so it's interesting on how to ace her. Sometimes you go out wide or, you know, she leaves a big hole, but she covers that hole even though she stands in the middle.
Yeah, wasn't really going for it. I was just trying to hit the lines.

Q. Is it more frustration or satisfaction to come through a match like that? 
SERENA WILLIAMS: She has this game where she likes to get a lot of balls back and likes to frustrate the opponent sometimes. Because she plays. She just plays a lot. 

Q. Frustrating or satisfied that you actually managed to get by that?
SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, you know, nowadays I'm always satisfied to get the win, because, you know, no one is going to really remember the scoreline necessarily in three years. Just who was able to win.

Q. Everyone prepares for a Grand Slam, every player differently, with how to focus or put blinders on or whatever. How would you describe it feels for you heading towards NewYork?
SERENA WILLIAMS: Hmm, I don't know. You know, I'm really trying to stay away from stress and stay away from press. 
But, you know, that's very little ‑‑a little difficult. I don't know. I'm going to talk to my agent about it tonight and just really minimize what I do, because I just want to play tennis. 
I don't necessarily want to hear about, Oh, this history and that history, because, you know, I just want to be able to do the best that I can. 
I want to be able to win and I don't want any distractions. That's how I'm going to handle it.

Q. I have a question about your legacy in women's tennis. There was the cohort of the Original 9, and then cohort of Evert and Navratilova. Are you a throwback to the Evert/Navratilova era or is there a new era sort of emerging of celebrity athletes and activism?
SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, I think that there is a lot of, I guess, quote/unquote celebrity athletes, but I think we live in a different time. 
I always am really trying to change the direction and the history and help in being a part of more ‑‑ like the Original 9. Just like opening up other doors for many, many women. 
So hopefully that's what I will be able to do more than anything. 

Q. Yesterday Roger Federer said that it takes him about 10 minutes for him to get psyched up for a match and be prepared, ready to go. How long would you say it takes for you?
SERENA WILLIAMS: I can say I have never been asked that question. (Laughter.)
To get psyched up for a match? I don't know. Sometimes in the morning I'm like, pumped, you know, like pumped and ready to play. 
And then sometimes I can be on the court and I'm, like, Man, am I still here? I'm not really pumped up even though I could be winning. 
But I don't know how long it takes. I never ‑‑ you know, I don't know. The second I step out on the court or hit a ball, I just feel like I don't want to lose. Maybe that's being psyched up.

Q. Do you prefer a morning match or an evening match?
SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't like to play in the morning and I don't like to play at night. (Laughter.)
Q.What's your optimal match time, then?
SERENA WILLIAMS: Probably around like 3:00.

Q. Finish up in time for tea. 
SERENA WILLIAMS: Exactly. And crumpets.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT