ROGERS CUP
August 13, 2015
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/A. Petkovic
  6‑3, 6‑2

Q. Much more straightforward win for you tonight than the first match on Tuesday. Can you talk about the progression and improvements that you made between those two matches?
SERENA WILLIAMS: I think I served better. It was a big difference. I still think I have a tremendous amount of improvement to do off the ground and every where else. 

Q. Did you feel much more confident in tonight's match?
SERENA WILLIAMS: Not really, no.

Q. In what ways?
SERENA WILLIAMS: I just felt off, you know. Just gotta be more positive out there again. I just felt a little negative. So you know, I'm just working to get back in that positive attitude and go from there.

Q. And is that something that just comes with more Match Play after having a few weeks off?
SERENA WILLIAMS: I guess so. You know what, I really don't know. Maybe. I don't know. I never really need a tremendous amount of matches to play well, but maybe I'm‑‑ maybe the older you get, the more you need. 

Q. Serena, when you take the court in a night match like that, does it take maybe a little bit of time to just kind of snap back into things, you know, just kind of the atmosphere and everything that's out there, getting used to it all?
SERENA WILLIAMS: Not really. I think‑‑ when I step out on the court, I feel great and I feel like I'm living my dream. And I don't think about it every time, but sometimes when I do think about it, it's pretty cool to be doing something that you've always dreamt of doing when you were a kid.

Q. And how have your practices been going? Are they more positive‑‑ are you more positive at practice than you are at the match or vice versa?
SERENA WILLIAMS: They're just as bad‑‑ as negative as my matches. So I'm not surprised.

Q. Can I ask you a question, then, given your answers so far, because when I look at the stats, I see that the entire match took an hour long, actually it's one hour and two minutes long. You didn't have a break point against you. You had three break points to win, and you won 61 percent of all your shots. 
SERENA WILLIAMS: Maybe I'm too hard on myself.

Q. You actually had nine aces. My question is, to be as perfect as you are statistically speaking and yet I see yourself sort of addressing to yourself, talking to yourself during the match. I was just curious why you feel that way. 
SERENA WILLIAMS: Those are great stats. I usually don't have those stats. You know, I just didn't‑‑ did it look that clean? 

Q. Yeah. 
SERENA WILLIAMS: It did? Is it just me? Am I just‑‑ it's just me? My coach is right? He said I played good. So maybe it's just me. I just‑‑ I just didn't feel it. Maybe‑‑ maybe I did. Clearly, you know, statistics speak. 

Q. Nine aces? 
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah. 

Q. Wow. 
SERENA WILLIAMS: Could have had 10. Always try for better. 

Q. I noticed you were talking to your racquet a bit. I was just wondering what you were saying to your racquet. 
SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't know, but I guess it listened to me, because apparently did really well. No, I just felt like I kept hitting the frames and I wasn't really going for a lot of shots. I didn't really go for winners. I didn't really feel like I played my game. But clearly I'm wrong. So‑‑ I don't know what's wrong with me. I just need to go to bed maybe. 

Q. Serena, I'm not sure if you saw last night what went on in Montreal between Kyrgios and Stan, but if you did, is there any reaction what your reaction was to all that stuff?
SERENA WILLIAMS: I think a lot of people saw, but as I said at Wimbledon, I'm no longer involved in controversy, so I don't want to be involved in any controversies. 

Q. One question, people have been talking about Aga Radwanska's disco dress. Do you have any thoughts on how her dress has stood out and how people have talked about it, and your thoughts about the dress in particular?
SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, as always, I always love the Nike outfits. Obviously they sponsor me and they do a great job of making fun outfits, but as a fashion designer, I love things that are daring and that are bold and that are different. And I feel that those are all of the above. And it's different. I think in tennis, you need to bring some light to the sport, some fun. And in terms of fashion, I always try to do that. And it's definitely a dress that you can wear in multiple situations. 

Q. Can you say a few words about your opponent tonight?
SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, I think she‑‑ I think she plays well. I really like that girl. She's so nice, Andrea is so sweet. She's one of the people when you see them in the locker room you're just happy to see them come in. You just can't help but smile. And you always wish the best for people like her. So I thought she played well. I thought she really pushed me, and she got me a little frustrated, which I think is important. And I thought she did that really well. 








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT