MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAU
April 1, 2015
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/S. Lisicki
  7‑6, 1‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   On behalf of Stacey Allaster and all of us at the WTA, we would like to present you these flowers for your 700th win.   Congratulations again.
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Thank you.   Thank you very much.   Thank you. 
(Applause).
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Serena. 

Q.   Yesterday Andy Murray hit 500 matches, and he was saying in a weird sort of way it motivates and pushes him.   Do you feel the same way? 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I don't know.   I didn't know I had 7oo wins.   I guess.   Yeah, when I hit 500 I definitely felt that way.
So now I'm like I just want to keep going, doing the best that I can.   Just staying positive and winning as much as I can.

Q.   You look on the stat sheet and some of those down points in the match you say, How does she do it, yet here you sit.   So tell us, how does she do it. 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   You know, I know today wasn't my best day.   I just told myself, I'm not serving the way I normally serve and hitting the way I normally would hit, so at this point all I can do is just fight and try to give 200% instead of 100%.

Q.   You snapped to life there in the third set.   Almost like somebody flipped a switch.   Did you tell yourself something or just a natural reaction? 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Definitely a little bit of a natural reaction.   Obviously I don't want to lose, or at least I want to try to do the best I can. 
Then she had a lot of momentum going into the third set after winning the second.   So, yeah, I just wanted to just stay strong and basically really wanted to hold serve. 

Q.   She really good challenge you a lot more than other players.   I guess her power, serve, all that.   What is it about her game that makes your matches always so tight and close? 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, we haven't played each other a lot, so I'm still working to figure that out.   Probably should study her game a little bit more so I can answer that question better. 

Q.   How tough was it on the sunny side of the court today.   Seemed to be giving you a lot of trouble. 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I mean, it's always tough on that side.   It's never fun.   I think it was tough for both of us.
Once the sun went away we were able to get over it.   But you just don't see.   It's really hard to see the ball.   You just have to adjust.

Q.   Are you a cake fan? 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Um (looking on the cake.)   I guess I like cake.   I like cherry pie.

Q.   How did you feel about purple frosting?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   The purple frosting? 

Q.   What's your favorite kind of cake?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Vanilla. 

Q.   Some of us who were in Oakland when Venus played her first match, and you were trailing around as the little sister.   Did you conceive, think, believe you would be in this situation?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   No, definitely not.   I never thought I would be a multi‑Grand Slam champion.   I always wanted to the best.   I wanted to win the US Open. 
Definitely didn't think‑‑ I didn't think about it.   When you're that age‑‑ at least I didn't; maybe some people do ‑‑ I didn't think about what my career would be like.

Q.   Did you ever think of another career path or say, Gee, I would really like to be a...?   And what would that have been?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I grew up playing tennis.   I have a picture or saw a picture when I was in a stroller on the tennis court.   I think my destiny was to play tennis.

Q.   So nothing else you thought that would be really cool?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, I went to fashion school.   I love to do acting.   I do have a fashion collection.   In fact, we're showing again in New York, so excited about that.
So, yeah, that was my only real passion outside of that was doing something in fashion.   You know, I pursued it and I'm still doing it while I'm playing tennis. 

Q.   I don't know if you followed the Isner‑Mahut match five years ago at Wimbledon, the 11‑hour, 3‑day match.   If you did follow it, does it seem kind of inconceivable that somebody could play that kind of match?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I think everyone that participated in Wimbledon that year followed it.   People that didn't participate definitely followed it.
I was just hoping I wasn't behind them after day three.   I was like, I do not want to be behind Isner‑Mahut, the because they kept extending it.
It was an amazing time I think in the history of tennis.   I don't know if it could ever be done again.

Q.   Do you think it was good for tennis or not so good?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I think it was exciting.   So many people are wondering what is this?   So many people were asking that never played tennis before, What happened at Wimbledon with this match?   It was definitely historic.

Q.   Your ability to lift your game at the most important points, is it innate?   Learned?   Experience‑based? 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I don't know.   I mean, I think it's a little bit of both.   I think it's innate and also something that you learn or time. 
Yeah, I think it has a lot to do with‑‑ I mean everyone out there wants to do their best, so just fighting as hard as you can. 

Q.   Thoughts about possibly facing Sloane.   I guess it would be tomorrow night probably if that happens. 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   It will be a good match.   We've had some really tough matches.   We've had some really interesting matches. 
She has a tough match ahead of her, but she can do it.   I really believe she can win.   If I play Sloane I wold be happy because at least one American would be in the final and take a little stress off me.
So that would be great.   I mean, yeah, definitely be rooting for her and watching and see what happens. 

Q.   Last week you retired before the game with Simona Halep.   If she wins tonight you will play against her.   What do you think about such a match?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I look forward to it because I didn't get to play her last time.   I was really disappointed to not be able to play and just not even be close to 100%.
So, you know, I look forward to it this time.   Whoever I play next, I am just happy to be in the semis and still be alive somehow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT