MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 3, 2015
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/M. Brengle
  6‑0, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel comfortable now with your preparation for the tournament?   You said after Fed Cup it was like a wake‑up call in the match against Errani.   
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, that was a big wake‑up call.   I definitely feel I know what to do more in terms of on the clay and being ready mentally for the clay and being ready for longer points, longer matches.  
And preparation, it was not as great as I wanted it to be, so just trying to play through it and do the best I can.  
   
 Q.   What do you think, it wasn't that perfect, the preparation you did?   
SERENA WILLIAMS:   No, it wasn't that perfect.   So, yeah.   
   
 Q.   You beat quite easily Madison Brengle.   There is a new generation of players behind you or in the future.   How is your interpretation?   
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I was able to win good today, but she's been playing really well.   I've been following her results.   She got to the semifinals of her last clay court event and she's been having some good wins.  
For me, when I'm playing a person I know has done well or is doing well, I have to be really focused for every point.   
   
 Q.   A number of big athletes, like Ray Lewis or Carmelo Anthony, have come out with Baltimore situation.   Can you give us your situation on Baltimore?   
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, well, I just feel like it's obviously a big problem right now and a very sad situation for everyone involved.  
You know, it's a shame that that has to happen.   Hopefully we can continue to grow as a nation and a country and overcome it.   
   
 Q.   I've just been talking to Madison, and I watched her in Stuttgart.   She said that she was quite happy to fly under the radar, but is really enjoying being a part of U.S. women's tennis right now.   What's your view on the youngsters coming up now?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I think we have a wonderful group of youngsters.   We have 14 Americans in the top 100.   That's a lot.   We are a big nation and that's a big number to have.   
So I think the next generation is going to be really good, really bright obviously.   I think the generation after that is going to be good and bright as well.  
There is so much new talent coming through the United States that I can hang up my shoes when I'm ready.  
   
 Q.   What's made the real difference from your point of view bringing new people into the game in America?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   It just takes time.   We've had a really strong tennis game since I think tennis‑‑ for a long, long, long time the Americans have been doing really well in tennis.  
Sometimes there is a low and there is a break.   Fortunately enough, with Venus and I there hasn't been too much of a low.   Now there is so many new Americans coming up and so many doing really well.   
   
 Q.   Coming to this point with everything you wanted already, which are your goals on the I would say long‑term and maybe short‑term?   Stay healthy?   Still winning everything?   Challenging yourself?   I don't know.   
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, my goal to stay healthy is always a goal for me.   But I have other goals.   My goals usually are around tournaments and doing well in tournaments.   I like trying to be ranked No. 1.  
So doing well enough so I can stay on top, I think that motivations me as well.   Yeah, those are some of my goals.   
   
 Q.   You're going to be playing Sloane Stephens in the next round.   You've obviously had pretty close matches.   You just played in Indian Wells.   Thoughts on playing her on the clay.   
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I don't think I've played her on the clay yet.   We had a really tough three‑set match last time we played.   She's playing really well.   She's such a good mover.   She moves well and is having a better year this year.  
I think she's flying under the radar this year.   She's really proven herself.   Yeah, I'm just looking forward to that.   Like I said, just going for each match and doing the best that I can on that day.  
   
 Q.   Players always say they don't look at the draw, but when the draw came out and they showed your section, it had you, Sloane, and potentially the winner of that match to play Venus or Vika.   Did you know about that?   
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, obviously I do now.   
Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT