MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAU
March 29, 2015
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/C. Bellis
  6‑1, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   That was kind of hard to watch.   Was it hard to play?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   No.   I don't think it was that difficult to watch.   If you break down her age and her ability and how well I think she handled the moment and how well she played, I think it was good.  
   
 Q.   What did you say to her at the net?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I just said, Good job, and that's it.   
   
 Q.   It seemed like you weren't ‑‑you love, I know, beating your opponents very soundly.   It just seemed like you really didn't love it today.   Am I right?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, no, I definitely have to agree with you.   It wasn't like, Oh, I'm so happy to win this match.   
Yeah, it was tough.   I think, you know, she's young and her being an American and her just doing so well, you want to see people like her do well.   So when you're up against them you have to kind of put that aside.   Even though I'm always cheering for her.   Otherwise I have to put it aside and play the match.  
   
 Q.   Do you remember when you were really young and your first time against one of the biggest players in the world and what that felt like and what she may have been going through today on the other side?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I don't remember.   I have been playing a little over ten decades.   (Smiling.)  
Um, I just remember playing like Steffi; Monica was amazing to play.   But I was never 15.   I never played that well at 15 to play the professionals, so I think I was at school.   I wasn't good enough.   
So, I mean, she's doing really great.  
   
 Q.   I saw this incredible documentary of you and Venus.   I'm looking at your opponent today, and I'm thinking back of everything that you guys have accomplished.   So my question to you is:   Have you had time to think and sit there and think everything that you have accomplished and know the doors that you have opened for other players?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Why are you sorry to ask that question?   
   
 Q.   Well, because it was just a long question.   I know we are in a different ‑‑it's just the first time I get to ask it since I have seen the documentary.   Congratulations, because I thought it was great.   
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Me too.   Thank you.  
You're a little late with watching the documentary.   What took you so long?   Jeez, disappointed.   (Smiling.)  
No, it was really fun to do, but I don't look back at anything because I feel like I could lose motivation.   I could really be, Wow, I did all that?   I won that?   I did this?   
I know I have won a lot.   I know how many Grand Slams I have won and how many gold medals I have.   You know, I just try to stay with my eyes on the prize and keep going forward.  
   
 Q.   Before all this started, you tried to set expectations for yourself in terms of your knee injury.   Can you give us an update on that?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I have been feeling pretty good, much better than I did in my last tournament.  
Yeah, I have surpassed my expectations, to be honest.   When I'm out there I don't feel it as much.   You know, it feels a little better every day.  
So, yeah, it's been really good.  
   
 Q.   We all talk about how special your serve is.   Have you ever thought about what it would be like to return your own serve, and what do you think makes your serve so special?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I could return my serve, because I actually like it when people serve hard to me.   I like it when people serve soft, too, but I really level when I get a hard serve.   For whatever reason, I feel like I'm return better when it's like that.  
That's kind of how I was raised, just getting really big serves back.   So I think I would be fine.   
   
 Q.   As lopsided as it was today, could you see some potential in CC's game?   What, if anything, impressed you to think she's got room to really grow as a player?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I see a lot of potential.   I think she would not have potential if she wasn't playing at this level and winning matches.  
And also, again, she's 15.   I turned pro at 15, but I didn't play ‑‑and, in fact, I lost 1‑1 to someone and I didn't play for another two years.   So, yeah, I think she's doing really well.  
   
 Q.   Who was that against?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Annie Miller.   Sure did.   
   
 Q.   You guys didn't play any juniors and it clearly worked for Venus and you, yet it doesn't seem like anyone decided that would be a smart idea to follow the Williams family line in that respect.   Most of the players come through the juniors.   Does it surprise you at all that some of the juniors don't skip the juniors?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I think everyone has to do different things.   You know, also it's a lot of factors.   My dad was a great coach and he's just such a great thinker.   He just had this whole vision.  
So what I'm saying is like if you don't play juniors it's hard for people to see you and get sponsorship, and tennis can be expensive.   For some people I think it's smart to play juniors.   People can see your level and in you can have some help in terms of traveling and getting coaches and things of that nature.   
But fortunately enough, we were able to manage.  
   
 Q.   How much of a factor is it that Venus and you had each other to play?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I think that helped a lot.   You know, I traveled with her briefly as her hitting partner.   I was her first hitting partner.   
Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Did she pay you?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   No.   Well, she didn't pay me, but I was just happy to be on the road.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   When you were saying before that when it's another young American across the court you kind of want to see her do well.   In the few moments where she had an ace or she had a big point and the crowd cheered, was part of you happy for her?   I know you would never be happy for someone scoring a point against you, but in a match like today, is it different?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I mean, I wanted to clap when she hit the ace, but I was like, I have to say focused and stay ready for the moment.   
Like I said, yeah, I would love to see someone like her do really well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT