CHINA OPEN
September 30, 2014
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/T. Pironkova
      6‑2, 6‑3 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   So off to a better start in tonight's match.   What was the difference tonight?  
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, tonight I was aware that I wanted to start out strong, so I think that was the main difference, was just making sure I was able to win a game early on.   
   
 Q.   There was a bit of a delay in the start with the ceremony going on.   Were you able to block out what was happening on center court?  
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   No, I actually thought the ceremony was after my match.   For the first time in my life, I was ready on time.   But then I realized things were running late.   I saw that the ceremony was going on so I watched a little bit.   
   
 Q.   I saw on Twitter that Patrick is on his way to Beijing.   I was wondering if that was something that was preplanned, that he was going to meet up with you in Beijing for coaching, or a last‑minute call?  
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   No, it was in the plan.   He didn't coach last week.   I guess he's going to come this week.   
   
 Q.   You defend your title last night as the best dressed.   You said it means a lot.   What kind of meaning for you?   You just don't want to lose anything or this is something you care about, like the fashion?  
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, it was just really cool 'cause the lady, Ellen Barron, she's Chinese.   She's a good friend of mine.   She's into fashion.   She has unbelievable designs.   They worked really hard on a lot of different outfits.   
    Yeah, I was more excited for her than anything.   That's why it meant so much.   So much amazing talent for a Chinese designer.   
   
 Q.   You said you watched a little of the Li Na tribute on court.   Did you get teary‑eyed in the locker room?  
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   No.   I was warming up the whole time because I thought the tribute was after my match.   By the time I saw it, it was almost over.   So I didn't see a lot.   I didn't see most of it.   
    I was really upset.   For some reason I thought it was after.   So, yeah, didn't read the schedule right I guess.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned you thought it was after your match.   If it was after, were you going to come?  
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   Obviously, for sure.   She's an amazing player.   She's done so much for over a billion people.   I don't think I have impacted that many people.   I just think what she's done for our sport, the sport I play in, is really second to none.   
   
 Q.   You play Safarova next.   You have had some matches.   You know each other fairly well.   What is it about her, her lefty‑ness, that makes her a tough opponent?  
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   She plays really well.   She does everything great.   She moves well.   She does everything well.   She serves great.   
    I have to put my big girl shoes on and try to play better my next match, my next round.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT