MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 8, 2014
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/C. Suarez Navarro
  6‑2, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Do you have some doubt about your flight to Rome?   You're okay with your leg?   Everything is okay?   
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I'm just taking it one day at a time.   Obviously I love Rome.   Whenever I do well in Rome I do well in Paris.  
I'm really going to try to make it.   So far I plan on being there.   
   
 Q.   Congratulations.   
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   Can you make an evaluation of the match and of the Spanish player, the best Spanish player?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, I played Carla on clay I think last year, but in Rome.   I feel like she actually played really well today.   She made me work for every point and it wasn't an easy win.  
I think that was her goal today, was to put on a really good show and play really hard and show me what she's capable of.   She's obviously capable of doing a lot.  
She just won last week, so she is definitely not an easy player to play.  
   
 Q.   Serena, do you consider clay is now your new favorite court to play considering you always have these very comfortable wins with such good performances?   All the time.   
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I love playing on clay.   I actually always have.   Sometimes didn't work out for me.   
But, yeah, you know, I just take it one match at a time.   Just, you know, into my career, I just enjoy different surfaces now.   
   
 Q.   You played with a Spanish player, so did you feel good with Spanish public in the stadium?   
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I felt pretty good.   I heard a lot the people still saying my name, saying, Come on, Serena, even though I was playing really, really good Spanish player.  
Obviously she were really rooting for her.   I think more of the crowd was definitely rooting for her.   There were some fans, so I was definitely happy about that.   
Thank you, guys.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT