CHINA OPEN
October 6, 2013
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/J. Jankovic
  6‑2, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   Hi.   Congratulations on your win.   Your serving games were excellent tonight.   Talk about how that helped you pull out the victory today. 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I served pretty well tonight.   It was important to serve well because she's a good returner, and it's always a good plus to do that.
So the first game was definitely a little hard, but then I got more into a rhythm tonight.

Q.   At the beginning of the second set, the first game you lost your serve and seemed to be a little bit in pain.   Not sure if that's just what I saw or if there was any issue.   Then she called for the trainer, and I had no idea that she was in pain in any way.   Did you have any idea that she was having problems, and do you have any? 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   That's pretty accurate.   I think that's how it went.   Yeah, no, I've been a little tight all week.   It's been a long year, so I was really happy.   That's why I said I really didn't expect to come and win this tournament.   I just wanted to do well. 
So I was definitely surprised that she called someone out.   She's a true champion and a fighter, and I think it's really admirable that she kept going even though she was definitely not at her best. 

Q.   It's your tenth title of the year.   You have won two Grand Slams and taking back the No. 1 ranking at 31 years old.   Could you consider it is arguably the best season in your career you have?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yes, definitely.   It's one of the best seasons I've had in my career. 

Q.   One of the best or the best? 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   You know, I don't know.   For me, if we're talking about Grand Slams, winning three in one season pretty much is pretty amazing. 
And also winning two Grand Slams and two gold medals in one season is pretty amazing, too. 
So those three seasons I think were top three of my career. 

Q.   Taking into account those achievements this year and also the fact that you claimed this title not dropping a single set, are you still being challenged enough, do you think, at the top of your game?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I'm definitely being challenged.   I was down a couple set points in a couple matches.   I was able to pull through with that.   Got a little lucky.
Everyone definitely presents a challenge.   Every time I step out the a court it's a challenge.   I'm vulnerable to not winning.   I go out there focused the best I can every time. 

Q.   Couple players have commented on the conditions here in Beijing, the air and all of that.   Do you feel it at all when you play? 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Not at all.   I don't know why, but I felt nothing. 

Q.   Your fastest serve tonight was just ten kilometers slower than Djokovic's.   How do you feel your serve gives you an advantage on the women's tour?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   It really does give me an advantage.   I never grew up trying to have a big serve, you know.   I just never even thought I would have a big serve, so to be able to‑‑ I know it's an advantage because I was playing a tournament this year and my serve was so off, so I had to rely on my groundstrokes and return game. 
I thought, Wow, life is easier if I could just hit an ace.   That really made me appreciate and understand the advantages of having a serve as weapon.   It was really awesome. 

Q.   What do you think is the best memory you can take away from Beijing this year? 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, definitely holding up that massive trophy.   I've seen it so many times in pictures and everyone's holding it up but I haven't been holding it up.   It's so pretty.   I'm really excited to do that. 
And to be able to come back and win this title ten years later is really cool for me as well.   Also had a lot of fun at the markets just going out there and just getting my fingers dirt, my feet dirt, so to say.   I had a lot a lot fun out there, too. 
It's been a wonderful trip in China.   My whole team and I have had so much fun this trip. 

Q.   What's next?   How are you going to prepare for Istanbul?   What are your plans for the next two weeks? 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yes, well, I'm going to go to France.   I don't want to go back to the USA because it's too far to travel back to the USA and then back to Europe. 
So I'm going to go directly to France and train.   It's an indoor tournament, so I'm going to train indoors and get ready for hopefully five more matches this year I'm hoping to play. 

Q.   This year when you play against the top 20 players you only lost two matches to Vika.   Do you feel you are unbeatable for the other girls? 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Everyone is beatable I think at some point.   I know I am.   I've lost several times this year.   I never feel like that.   Everyone is beatable at some point.

Q.   I know you said Venus is your greatest opponent, so I wonder, is anyone else for you so threaten?   Is there anyone else that can threaten you on the court except Venus?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, like I said, everyone is playing well.   Every time I step out on the court is a chance I'm putting myself out there to not win.
Yeah, everyone is a threat, you know.   I don't feel like I'm above anyone.   I'm just playing and doing the best I can.   That's all I can do.
I'm just happy that I'm just working hard to be the best right now.   Soon it will be someone else.

Q.   You talk about Istanbul.   Have you decided what you're going to wear in the player welcome parties? 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Actually, yes.   It's funny you ask.   Yes, already have. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT