CHINA OPEN
October 4, 2013
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/C. Wozniacki
  6‑1, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   Talk a little bit about how you felt you played tonight. 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I felt I played really well, especially in the first set.   I played well in the second set too, but I think Caroline just played so much better and she lifted her game so much.
But I think overall it was the best performance I've had this week, which I'm excited about that.   (Smiling.)

Q.   You already have 70 victories, over 70 this season.   How do you feel about the results you achieved this year?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Feels great.   It was definitely something I didn't expect in the beginning of the year.   Never even thought about it, so it's like a big bonus for me. 
Feels really good. 

Q.   Do you feel like it's very challenging for you physically to play so many tournaments this year? 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   You know, some days I feel aches and pains, but for the whole year I've pretty much felt okay.   I've felt pretty solid.
But I don't know.   Every day is a new day, so I'll see how it goes. 

Q.   Talking about semis tomorrow, could be Agnieszka or Angelique Kerber.   Talk about both of them, please. 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   They play a similar game except one is righty and one is lefty.   They both get a lot of balls back and they're both great players.
Doesn't matter who I play, it's going to be a tough match.   I'm going to have to come out and be as focused as I was tonight and do my best to try and hang in there. 

Q.   We talked with your coach yesterday, and he said that he doesn't do much coaching of you during the game, that you're much more introspective and do your own coaching.   Would you agree with him?   And how do you feel about having him as your coach?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, he doesn't do any coaching at all.   For me, it's my moment out there.   I just kind of have to really figure out, if I'm losing, a way to win; or if things don't go right, I have to figure out a different way.
It's a good, mature thing for me more than anything. 

Q.   Speaking of maturity, do you have anything in mind, something like an ideal season before the start of the season?   What would be an ideal season for you?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, I think the dream season for me is just to stay healthy I think more than anything.   Obviously winning Grand Slams would be also a dream season for me.
As long as I'm healthy, I think I can hopefully do that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT