CHINA OPEN
October 1, 2013
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/F. Schiavone
  6‑4, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   First of all, congratulations to your win today.   You bagel Schiavone in the first round of the US Open this year, but today she kind of pushed you to the limit.   Did it surprise you?   Thank you. 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Didn't surprise me.   I was definitely more surprised that I played so well in the Open, but it was a different circumstance.   Even though I won 6‑Love, it wasn't an easy match.
I wasn't surprised today.

Q.   I'm wondering, why are you so tired today?   Like your moving, and in normal times you're screaming really loud; today almost didn't make any sound.   Also, after the win, normally you will put big smiles on your face.   Today you're just so calm.   I am wondering why. 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I don't know.   I felt like I was moving fast, so I have to argue with you on that one.

Q.   Sorry. 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   And I did grunt a lot and really loud, but I stopped because I started losing.   So I stopped grunting and then I started winning.
That's why I stopped grunting so much.   You know, I was able to save some energy, so I started walking slower and taking my time more.   When I did that, I actually won three or four games in a row, you know. 
So I did it on purpose. 

Q.   Was the ninth game of the second set, all of those deuces and faults, was that a chance for you to regain control and even the playing field?   She had a little bit of a lead before.
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, it was definitely a great chance.   I think I won that game.   Not sure.   But she ended up winning the next few games.
That's when I stopped grunting and I started walking slower and I was just like, Serena, take your time.   (Laughter.)

Q.   Which moment do you consider the most meaningful in playing tennis in Beijing?   Was it the gold medal in doubles or a match that we have no idea about?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   No, it was most definitely the gold medal in doubles.   Yeah, you know, I love the Olympics, and every time I come here I think about the Olympics.   Even playing doubles yesterday, we didn't win, but walking out on that court is where we won the gold medal.   I loved it here, so it's great. 

Q.   You won the best dressed award last night in the player welcome party.   Did that really happen to you before?   And when you step on the stage, feels like you are the prom queen over there.   How did you feel?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I felt really good.   Actually, my dress was a Chinese designer, Ellen Barron, B‑a‑r‑r‑o‑n, E‑l‑l‑e‑n.
You know, I'm gonna check that.   Yeah.   So she's a Chinese designer, and I wanted some dresses made.   She came over and she‑‑ I don't know.   I think she made it in like a couple hours, but she said, I want you to wear this.
I didn't ask her for this dress and she was so nice.   I love the Chinese fashion and I love the Chinese designers, so I was so happy.   I put it on and it fit, and I was like, Wow.   So I definitely have to give her all the credit for my first best dressed. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese.

Q.   Stephon Marbury was here today.   Do you have a favorite basketball player, and do you watch this quite often?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, I had no idea he came.   That was really exciting.   Maybe I would have played better had I known.
You know, there are so many great basketball players in general.   You know, living in Florida, so I got to support the Miami Heat. 
I love the of Heat and all the members, so, yeah. 

Q.   (In English.)   When the game was over we saw you talk with Schiavone.   Could you share what you said? 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I just said, Good match.   I said she was really motivating because ‑ if it's possible ‑ she's older than me, and, you know, she's so fit and just played so well.
For me, it was inspiring.   That's what I told her. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT