CHINA OPEN
October 3, 2013
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/M. Kirilenko
  7‑5, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   Your back was against the wall down 5‑4, 40‑Love in this first set.   How were you able to battle back and claim the set?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, you know, I just thought, What else can I do except just fight for this point and the next point.   
I got lucky a little bit I think maybe.   I just started to relax and kind of swing and not think about it too much.  
   
 Q.   You've had a lot of success against Kirilenko in the past.   This one seemed a little bit harder.   What was different about today's match?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, she's obviously improving.   It was just a tougher match today.   The conditions out there were really tough.   
So, yeah.   
   
 Q.   You seem to be doing some stretching in the first set, maybe holding onto your side.   Are you feeling okay today?   
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I have little aches everywhere, but I'm feeling okay.   Really happy to get through this match and get off the court have the rest of the day to recover and fix everything.  
So I'm looking forward to that.   
   
 Q.   With the debate of if the female players should play best‑of‑five set matches in the Grand Slams, Venus was really supportive of the idea that you should do this.   What's your opinion?   
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, you know, the top players, the women, we always told the Grand Slams initially that we are willing, ready, and able to play the best‑of‑five if that was what made the difference between, at the time, equal prize money or match scheduling or whatever it took.   
So, yeah, we're all ready.   I think not just me and Venus.   Several other players that are willing to do whatever it takes.   
   
 Q.   Last night Rafa talked after his match about how the court conditions were really slow and the balls made it tough for him.   Did you feel the same way?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, I felt the court was really fast, so...  
I mean, for me, the balls are just sliding and I feel like I'm hitting everything late.   But I'm not good at telling court conditions.   
I mean, I'm not good at it at all.   I can play on any surface, so for me, I'm not the best person to ask that question.   
   
 Q.   Talk about your next opponent.   It's either Caroline or Sloane.   Talk about each them.   
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I never look at the draw to know who I play next.   I look forward to whoever I play.   
Sloane is playing really well.   She is just so good.   She has such good potential.  
Caroline obviously has been doing better this year, so that's always good to see.  
Whoever I play it will be a tough match.   Probably have to play and pick up my level.   
THE MODERATOR:   Chinese questions, please.   
   
 Q.   I was told you went to silk market for shopping.   What did you buy?   Off the court do you like shopping quite often?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   My.   Well, yeah, I went to the silk market.   Yesterday I had a day off.   What did I buy?   (Smiling.)  
Well, I bought a lot of things, but I helped my friends buy things more than anything, because I'm really good at negotiations.   So that was definitely more my role yesterday.  
Boy, did I have fun.   I had a lot of fun doing that.   It was just thrilling for me.   
   
 Q.   Some fans told me that yesterday you cried after practice.   Are you not satisfied with your current fitness or performance?   What may be the reasons?   
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I've been trying to do the best I can here.   I'm a perfectionist.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT