U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2013
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/G. Voskoboeva
      6‑3, 6‑0

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   I know you mentioned it on court, but the wind was a problem.   Did you play a little bit more cautiously on those shots?
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   Definitely had to be a little more cautious in the wind.   Just natural taking that in.

Q.   What did you do yesterday, and how did you manage the shuffling of the schedule?
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   I was fine.   I was just waiting and realized that I wasn't going to play, so I went home (smiling). 

Q.   When you have a doubles match coming up like this, how does it change how you would prepare for your next match normally?
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   Definitely gives you more time to work on things you want to do in your next match.   So that's kind of more or less how I look at it, just as getting more time to be more ready.

Q.   Sarah Errani, after she lost, was talking about sort of the pressure of being expected to win matches is fairly new for hey because she hasn't been top 5 for so long and she didn't know how to deal with that pressure.   How would you advise someone who is starting out coming out of nowhere being a top 5 player dealing with that change?
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, it's hard, but for the most part I really don't know.   I really wouldn't know what to say.   I can only say that I think she's doing a good job.   I mean, sometimes you have a tough day at the office, and it doesn't mean that you didn't handle the pressure well. 
    I think she's a good player.

Q.   Speaking of advice, if you could look back at the very young Serena who first came here and won that championship so long ago, if you could sit down with her, what advice would you give to her on navigating the world of tennis and life in general?
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   Oh, there are so many things you would say‑ I mean, anyone could say ‑ to their younger self.   The fact remains you can't do it, so I never really get involved in trying to give advice to someone that I can't.

Q.   What do you think younger Serena would think of your incredible run that you've had over the years?
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   I don't know.   I feel like I have always wanted to be a tennis player and I have always wanted to win a Grand Slam, and then I kind of got greedy and I kept wanting to win more.   I don't think I would be that surprised.

Q.   When you and Venus or Venus lose a singles match, having the doubles ahead of you still, does that soften the blow at some of these Grand Slams a little bit?
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, I think it helps.   I mean, nothing really for me never really softens anything, but it definitely helps because you're still in the competition and you still want to walk away with some sort of a trophy.

Q.   You and Sloane and Jamie are in the same tiny little part of the draw, and only one of you is going to reach the quarterfinal.   You're the only three seeded American women.   Does that seem unusual to you?   How do you process that?
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   You have to be ready for everything and every part.   We'll see what happens.   I mean, all of them have been playing well.   Sloane plays excellent, and Jamie has been playing really well.
    Hopefully I can just try to keep up.

Q.   How happy are you with the way you're playing right now?
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, I'm just trying to do the best I can.   Just always trying to get a little better.

Q.   After all Venus has been through with her physical problems in the last several months, what do you take from the way she played and the two singles matches she's had here and your thoughts towards the future for her?
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, I think she played really well.   I think she's done some great things and I think that she's playing better.

Q.   Given the rainout yesterday that's brought you back here today and the doubles and then returning tomorrow, is this a difficult scheduling for you?
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   No, I usually play every day.   In regular tournaments I don't have a day off.   Only in the Grand Slams I get the luxury of having a day off.   I guess I didn't get that, so I'm definitely used to it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT