MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 7, 2013
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/L. Dominguez Lino
  6‑2, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   That was a tough second set.   How do you feel that went for you?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Um, I feel it went well.   I made a lot of errors, but her game kind of forces you to make errors.   
It was a good match for me.   It was a really good clay‑court tennis match for me.   
Seeing as I have a few more tournaments on clay,   it was perfect to play a match like this, so I know if I face another opponent like that I'll have that experience and I'll know how to play.  
   
 Q.   Recently Sloane Stephens made some comments about you.   I'm not sure if you're aware.   If you are, what are your thoughts on them?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I think a lot of people are aware.   I don't really know.   I don't have many thoughts.   I'm a big Sloane Stephens fans and always have been.   I've always said that I think she can be the best in the world.   I'll always continue to think that and always be rooting for her.   
So I really just always wish her ‑ and anyone, really, especially from Americathe best.   We don't have that many American players, so it's always exciting to see so many young players doing so well.   
   
 Q.   Your year last year was transformed in the immediate aftermath of Roland Garros, wasn't it, when you made that decision?   You made those changes.   When you step back on the clay now, were the memories coming back about that time?   
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Um, I was just in a different place last year.   I played well.   I played well before Roland Garros.   Just things changed at Roland Garros.  
I was on this great winning streak and one of the favorites to win ‑ and probably the least favorite to lose in the first round.   
But, you know, it happens.   But I don't think too much about that at this point.   I just think, Okay I won another match.   
I think what happened to me last year definitely keeps me level.   I don't get too excited or too like emotional, like I'm supposed to and have to win; I'm the favorite to win.  
I don't think like that anymore.   
   
 Q.   Your results on clay have obviously not been as good as elsewhere.   What do you put it on to?   Obviously you won Roland Garros a while ago, so you've had some success.   
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, there is definitely not as many tournaments on clay as there are on hard.   
No excuse, though, for me not to play better on clay.   I think the past couple years I've been doing a little better.   I don't know.   
I tell everyone I grew up on clay.   I played hard court until I was nine and played clay court until I turned pro.   I should have better results on clay.   I still love it.   It's actually one of my favorite surfaces, so I always have fun on it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT