SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 20, 2013
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You have talked for years about how rankings don't matter to you.   Could you just speak about like, you know, you're No. 1 again and how does it feel?   Because it was obvious it meant a lot to you in Doha. 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yes, it feels good to be on top, especially after everything.   You know, and working so hard and just really not expecting much, and especially this far in my career, it's exciting to be there again.

Q.   You have an opportunity to make history in Miami by winning your sixth tournament.   Who is the rival you fear most?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   For me, I just focus on every match that I play, from the first round to the last.   I don't fear anybody, and I don't like that word per se.   But I'm cautious of everyone I think is a better way to put it.

Q.   The conditions here are not always the easiest of the tournaments because it can get really windy.   How much do you really have to adjust your game?   Is it easy to adjust to these conditions here?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   It's not easy to adjust.   It definitely gets really, really windy here, but fortunately enough I always have a good week to practice here.   It was so windy last week I was just really barely able to hit.
I thought the whole time it's good preparation for this tournament.

Q.   What has been your main stimulus to keep working and overcome the injuries?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   My main what? 

Q.   Your main stimulus. 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Oh, I don't know.   I love playing tennis.   I love walking out on center court, and I love holding up the trophy at the end of the week.   So that's my goal, just whenever I get down or I'm injured I just think of that to try to get back and do better. 

Q.   How does it feel to be back here in Miami?   It's almost a home tournament for you and you have had great success in the past. 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   It feels great.   For me it is a home tournament.   I live so close to here, and it always feels good to come here.   I have done pretty well here in the past, and it's always so many great memories every time I step out on the court. 

Q.   Tell us about the movie, Serena.   Are you happy with this outcome of the production?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I don't know.   I'm just ‑‑ right now I'm just really focused on this week, and, like, I'm just little brain fried right now. 
So, sorry. 

Q.   We know all the things you can do really well.   What would be some things you can't do or don't do well that you would really like to do well?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I would love to sing really well.   I think if I could sing, I would just be a star. 
But I don't sing great.   I don't sing bad, but I don't sing great.

Q.   So you'll keep it at karaoke?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I'm a karaoke singer.   That's as far as I go. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT