DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 20, 2013
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Can you explain what the injury is and when it occurred?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah.   I just have had a lot‑‑ I've just had some back problems the past couple weeks.   It didn't get better.   I thought it would get better as the week went on, but it didn't.   I don't want to keep pushing it and make it worse.

Q.   What happens now?   How serious is it?   Are you going to have to pull out of other tournaments?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, my next tournament is actually in Miami.

Q.   So you have some time?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I have a lot of time.   And I think that's good, to get back and to get better.   I'll be fine. 

Q.   Have you been having treatment here to try to get ready to play?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I have been having treatment here as well as in Doha, and just the whole past two‑and‑a‑half weeks.
But, yeah.   So it's getting better but it's not at a level where I can compete where I feel comfortable to not make it worse.

Q.   I guess that's your concern is that if you get out there and have a tough match you could aggravate it to the point where you'd have to take time off or something like that?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Exactly.   I mean, words ‑‑ exactly what you just said. 
So, for me, I don't want to do that, and I think it will be a wise move actually not to do that. 

Q.   Did Vika's withdrawal yesterday perhaps influence... 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   No, not at all. 

Q.   This is the second time, third time that you have been confirmed for this tournament and it hasn't happened? 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Isn't it?   I feel terrible.   I feel like that, so maybe three times, and maybe the next time will be a better time.   Just horrible.

Q.   Seemed like last week the back never came up, but was that bothering you as well in Doha?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, the whole time, as well as in Australia.

Q.   Because you injured it in Australia?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, exactly.   I had little to no time to get it better.   So I'm just working on actually getting it better.   So I just had to go back to back to back.   Yeah. 

Q.   What kind of treatment will you be doing?   Anything with more rehab?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Just a lot of rehab stuff, a lot of flexibility stuff, a lot, a lot of therapy and things of that nature.

Q.   You're confident by Miami you'll be... 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Oh, absolutely.   I have no choice.   So I figure like not only by then but hopefully sooner than that so I can start getting a really good training program going so I can get really, really fit and get ready for some other tournaments hopefully this year.

Q.   There are a lot of younger girls like Vika, for example, are finding it difficult to keep up with the schedule.   Being the oldest world No. 1 and being of a similar age to Roger, do you think you need to be perhaps more selective going forward?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I definitely think I will be more selective going forward, you know, playing maybe less tournaments but really doing well like I have tried to be in those events.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT