AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2013
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/M. Kirilenko
      6‑2, 6‑0 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   That was such a dominant performance.   Were you surprised how quickly it was over?  
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   I was surprised.   I felt like Maria played really well.   I was just trying to play well, just to keep up.   
   
 Q.   You had 87% first serves.   Have you ever had that good a serving day, do you think?  
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   No, I definitely have never hit that high of a percentage because I take a lot of chances with my serve.   
    It was good.   But I really want to be able to keep it up.   
   
 Q.   The ball speed changes at night.   
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   I never find whether a ball is heavy or light or yellow or pink.   It's pretty much the same.   I could play with a rock.   
   
 Q.   You dropped eight games.   What do you take out of the first four matches?  
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   You know, consistency, fighting.   I'm really out there just doing the best I can, just fighting for everything.   
    I think with that attitude I'm just trying to stay in the tournament just to stay alive.   
   
 Q.   You have Sloane next.   Anything surprise you the first time you played her?  
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   No.   I took a lot from that match.   She plays well.   Like I said after the match, she can be the greatest player.   
    I feel like for me it will be another good match and a good opportunity for both of us.   Definitely one of us will be in the semifinals, which I think is awesome.   So it's going to be good.   
   
 Q.   Is the word 'mentor' accurate to define that relationship with Sloane, or is that overstated?  
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   I don't know.   I mean, I would need a better definition of the word 'mentor.'   I just feel like being the older one, I definitely ‑‑ probably maybe some of the younger players look up to me.   
    Yeah, so it's interesting.   It's hard to be a real mentor when you're still in competition.   So I think it's a little bit of everything.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel a responsibility at all towards her?  
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   No.   I feel no responsibility.   I doubt she has any expectations of me to be responsible for anything.   Maybe she does.   I don't know.   
    But, you know, I'm here to compete and do the best I can, as well as she.   And she's been doing really amazing.   I'm really happy.   
    I have a tough match, so we'll see.   
   
 Q.   Did you actually tell her that she's not loud enough and she needs to grunt more?   That's what she said.   
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   No, because we were the other day in the locker room.   She said, I grunt.   I said, No, you don't.   You're so calm.   I'm like loud and outrageous.   She's incredibly calm.   
    I think that's such a great thing to have.   Like you look at some of the great players like Roger, he's so calm out there.   That's what she has.   She's like, I'm grunt.   I'm like, You don't grunt.   What are you talking about?   
    I think she was maybe joking because she definitely doesn't grunt.  
   
 Q.   I don't know if you've been keeping up in the football.   
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   I have two friends that play on both teams.   
   
 Q.   The Harbaughs are going to be facing off.   Siblings going against each other.   Can you talk about the ups and downs of siblings competing.   
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   Honestly, I don't know.   It's definitely hard for me when I play my sister, it's the toughest match for me.   Not only is she a great sister, but also she's my sister.   
    I don't know if it's different when it comes to coaching because you're not physically out there, you're not physically trying to steal this person's dream.   So I think it could be a little different.   I'm not sure.   
   
 Q.   Are the victories more muted over her than other players?  
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   I think for sure at times.   Depends on how tough the match was, how tight it was.  
   
 Q.   Who are the friends you have on the respective teams?  
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   I've known Brian Davis for years and Bryant McKinnie for years.   They're just really good buddies of mine.   
   
 Q.   In which year was the first time you began to notice Sloane?   What was her impression on you at that time?   When did you begin to talk to each other?  
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   I noticed Sloane I think years ago at TeamTennis, maybe four years ago.   Actually, I saw her in the locker rooms ‑ not trying to be funny, as I tend to always make jokes.   I may as well go for it, right?   It's late.   
    I saw her in the locker room.   She was another black girl.   I was like, Hey!   That's when I first noticed her (laughter).   What up, girl?   
    Next question.   
   
 Q.   If you would have a second life, would you love to be a tennis ball?  
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   A tennis ball?   Absolutely not.   I have no desire to be hit around.   No pun intended.   
    We should probably end this.   It's late and my mind is not clear right now.   
   
 Q.   Might you have a little bit of a passing interest in Jeremy Chardy's match?  
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah.   I was really happy for Jeremy.   I was definitely interested.   I was watching with absolutely everything.   I was really, really happy for him.   I thought he did a really good job.   He beat Del Potro.   He won today.   So now we're both in the quarters.   
    I always say it's because he hit with me.   We hit together in Mauritius.   
   
 Q.   He said you did, yeah.   
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   I think obviously I'm the reason why he's doing really well (smiling).   
   
 Q.   What would your impression be of his match against Murray?  
    SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, I don't have a good record against Murray myself, but...   
    I think he can do well.   I mean, he has such a big serve and such a big forehand.   I'm a big Murray fan, as well.   I mean, the guy is awesome.   He's running everything down.   
    I don't know.   I'm definitely not a coach.   But just hang in there, can do it.   Why not?   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT