U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2012
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/E. Makarova
  6‑4, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Were you happy with the way you were patient and playing from the back court today and rallied with her and didn't seem to go for too much too soon?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah.   Yeah, I guess so.   I was just patient, I guess.   I wasn't really thinking too much.   I was just hitting and trying to stay relaxed.

Q.   Did you learn something from the loss in Australia about her game, or was that more about you?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Definitely was motivated.   Knowing that I lost, could definitely happen again.   Did not want that to happen.
So whether I learned something, I don't know.   I really hate watching matches that I lose unless I'm punishing myself.   I didn't punish myself.

Q.   Do you ever watch matches you lost to punish yourself?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I used to.   It was so painful.   It was like stabbing myself.   (Laughter.)
I don't like to do that.   I have tried either not to lose or not to watch matches that I lost.

Q.   You don't find any value though in watching matches you lost? 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I do, but you can't imagine how I feel watching it.   It's not a good feeling.

Q.   Do you ever yell at yourself, like, Serena, bend your knees?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   No, because I already know the result.   I'm telling you, it's very painful.   It's really ‑‑it's like cutting yourself to me. 

Q.   Do you think you'd survive watching your problematic situation in Paris this year?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   No, I can't even look at pictures.   That one is really bad.   If I see a picture of the dress, I just don't look at it.

Q.   You have a new ‑ at least I have not heard you before ‑ when you miss a shot you go, Aye‑yi‑yi.   Is that a new saying?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   No, my friend actually is Mexican.   She was telling me a long time ago that I do that.   I'm like, Really?   She said, Yeah.   I was like, I didn't know.   She claims that I have been doing that since we have been friends because she does it all the time.   Maybe she rubbed off on me.   I didn't even realize that I did that.

Q.   Kirilenko is your next opponent.   What are your thoughts about her game?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   She plays really well.   I have played her a few times.   She brings such a challenge.   She moves very well and she has such a tricky game.   It will be a good challenge for me.

Q.   Did your coaching staff give you some hints on what you've got to do differently than Australia or talk about, you know, what you have to do that you didn't do in Australia?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, I talked to my dad, who always gives me the right advice and tells me what to do, but not too much outside of that. 
I really focus on what I need to do in my game.   You know, what happened in Australia was that and that was then; really try to focus on the now.

Q.   What did he tell you about this match?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Just to stay relaxed and to ‑‑I'm not going to tell you.   You almost got me, though.   (Laughter.)
Q.How hot was it out there today?   Was it really as hot as it feels? 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   It was definitely really hot.   I didn't expect it to be that hot. 
Last time I played her was even more hot, so that was fine.

Q.   How do you manage your energy on such hot days?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I'm good in the heat.   I prefer the heat, so I'm totally fine in the heat.

Q.   You have had a long career, a lot of ups, few downs.   Where would you rank the last couple of months in terms of enjoyment, fun factor, both on and off the courts?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   It's been extremely fun.   I've really appreciated the past few months.
Really the past year has been really amazing.   Coming back playing ‑‑ starting at Wimbledon, even though I think I lost in the fourth round, but pretty much did really well since then, really consistent, and came from, you know, 170‑something to back being, you know, top 5 and obviously trying to move ahead with that.
So it's been really a great, fabulous time for me.

Q.   But more so the last couple of months, like post‑Paris. 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, and winning the gold medal.   I was getting there, Doug.   Patience. 
And winning the gold medal has been, I think, amazing.   I really wanted to win it in doubles like I always say, but I think deep down I really, really, really wanted it in singles.
And then Wimbledon is just crazy.   Winning that was ‑‑ winning another Grand Slam after being in the hospital is shocking and cool and amazing.
So it's been really amazing.

Q.   What about the Bank of the West tournament?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   That was awesome, too.   I had a little winning streak going there.   You know, I try to get a little winning streak every year, it seems.   That was pretty cool.

Q.   So you'll never wear that French Open dress again?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   No.   I threw them all away, actually.

Q.   Talking to Sharapova yesterday, who ended her engagement with her fiance, separating off court and the on court, not bringing off‑court stuff on court, have you always been good with that?   Talk about the challenge of keeping personal life off the court and focusing. 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, you know, I have been really good at that.   I went through a breakup, too. 
But, yeah.   It's tough.

Q.   What kind of conversation did you have with Venus after a tough loss the other night to prepare for the doubles match that followed?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   No, really she's so positive.   She really just always ‑‑doesn't matter whether she wins or loses, she's so positive.   We went into that doubles match, and I'm thinking, Okay, I'm going to play really well.   She just got off the court really.   I really want to do well, and she kind of held me up.
So that's just the kind of person and player and champion that she is.

Q.   When you see Andy Roddick and Kim Clijsters, the wave that you were in, deciding to retire, what goes through your mind?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Honestly I thought I definitely don't want to end it.   Like I feel like if anything, I want to be here even more and play even more.

Q.   How did you keep Andy's secret for a year?   You're a good secret keeper. 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I'm really good at keeping secrets, so if you tell me something, I never open my mouth to anybody.   You, know, not even to my friends. 
I was hoping he'd change his mind.   I love that guy.   I love Andy.   He's just a great person.

Q.   Could you see him getting on an emotional roll here and doing some damage or feed off the crowd?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I hope so.   I can see it.   He can do well at his next round.   He has the whole crowd behind him.   He has everyone on TV behind him.   I'm rooting really hard for him.
Coming in as his last tournament, he has nothing to lose.   That's when people I think are most dangerous.

Q.   Would you rather just win and not tell anybody and then retire, or announce it and let the crowd... 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Haven't thought about it whatsoever, so I don't even know what I would do.

Q.   Did you watch Andy last night? 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I watch Andy's every match.   I can't believe I won't be able to watch him anymore.   I'm watching everything.

Q.   What did you think of the whole atmosphere?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   The whole? 

Q.   The whole match, the atmosphere. 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   It was great.   I thought his energy was great.   You know, every point, I'm just so into with that guy, so it's going to be a big loss for men's tennis. 

Q.   What should I look for in your Signature Collection to add to my wardrobe?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   So much great things.   We have handbags and some really cool clothes.   I haven't really thought too much about it because I'm here.   It's been really crazy busy for me.   I got some samples yesterday so it looks good.

Q.   With your friendship with Sloane Stephens, would it be fair to say you might be giving her some advice on how to play specific players?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I have given her advice before.   She'll be fine.   She's a great player.

Q.   But do you tell her that... 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   That's not my job.   I think that's her coach's job.   I don't want to step on anyone's toes, so I try not to say too much unless I feel like it can really help.

Q.   Roddick last night was playing to a lot of the crowd and the crowd was loving him.   Do you love to be adored by the crowds? 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I think everyone loves to be adored by the crowd.   I feel like I have so much support here in New York.   When I played her last year I felt unbelievable support. 
I feel a ton of support in a few different cities that I go to as well; namely, in Australia.   I love it there.
It's always awesome to have that crowd behind you and have that support and to have those fans that you really love and adore. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT