WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 16, 2012
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/U. Radwanska
  6‑4, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How would you grade your game today?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I was out there and I did the best I could today.   You know, I was happy to get through that match. 

Q.   How are you feeling?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   You know, I'm feeling all right, hanging in there.   I was a little tired today, but, you know, hopefully I'll feel better tomorrow.

Q.   Is it an energy issue right now?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, it was just energy.   I have been playing a lot.   Definitely more energy.   Been traveling a lot, been training a lot. 
You know, it's been a really big summer.   Singles and doubles is a tough schedule, so that's about it.

Q.   I think you said the other night you were having trouble with your racquets.   Did you work that out?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I fixed that problem today.   It was much better.   I was able to hit today at least.   The other match I was having trouble hitting.

Q.   What do you do in a situation where you're feeling a bit tired and you have got games coming up the next day?   Obviously rest, but is there anything else you can do?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, for me, I think it's just a one‑day thing.   I will get some rest.   I finished my whole day today.
I will be more ready for tomorrow.

Q.   Is it for satisfying to win a match when you're kind of... 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Absolutely.   It gets me more pumped up for the next match, gets me more excited and more ready to go. 

Q.   Jeremy Chardy was just in here and he had a big win over Andy Murray today.   He says he saw you practicing at the academy and you tried to return his serve with mild success. 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I totally returned all of Jeremy's serves.   I don't know what he's talking about.   He needs to come in here and be honest.   I hit winners on him.   (Laughter.)
Basically he's not telling the truth. 

Q.   That's why I'm asking you. 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   No, yeah, he was serving next to me so hard.   I was like, Can I just try to return your serve?   I said, But don't serve me in the body.   I was afraid he would hit me.   I said, If you hit me I'm going to start crying.   I was like, Serve it here.
It's fun.   He's a great guy.   I'm happy for him.

Q.   Have you enjoyed having that academy atmosphere?   Since you have been starting to work with Patrick and having these guys around, that's gotta be kind of nice?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, it's really nice.   It's a great atmosphere.   It's fun.   It's all about tennis.   It's all about working hard.
I don't know.   It keeps me pumped up and excited to be in the sport.   It's totally different for me, so I really love it.

Q.   At the US Open this year in the players lounge, in addition to the salon that Julien Farel will have, he will set up a mani‑pedi shop, too.   Are you going to be taking advantage of that?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, if they use OPI products, yes.   Right now I'm currently wearing, I'm Not Really a Waitress by OPI, a beautiful red color on my toes.   Just got it done. 
I'm actually into gel, and I also am looking for 3D art, so hopefully they'll have 3D art available, because that's what I'm after.

Q.   Following the first game of the match you went to the baseline and stood in the shade.   Was it a result of just the very hot conditions today?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   No, I was just standing there leaning, because I walked ‑‑I never get water between the first three games.   I was waiting on her, and I looked up and she was already ready, so... 

Q.   You're going to play Kerber next.   Do you have more motivation playing against someone who beat your sister recently?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, you know, she's playing really well.   She's moving really well.   So it will be a good match for me.

Q.   Did winning Wimbledon and again the Olympics re‑energize you at all?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I definitely think so.   I think I was energized a lot before that.   I have had a decent year with Madrid and Charleston and then the grass court season. 
So it definitely energized and helped me feel pretty good.

Q.   What keeps the game interesting for you?   What keeps it fresh?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   New things.   I like trying new things.   I like playing new things. 
I like walking out there on the court every day and playing my match.   I think that keeps me going.

Q.   I'm curious if you pay any attention to the display of the service speeds, or do you think that's just for the fans?   Does that mean anything to you?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, no, I'm always paying attention, always looking at it.   Always, always. 

Q.   Does that help with your strategy to know where you... 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   No, I'm just trying to see if I hit it hard or how hard I can hit it or can I hit it harder. 

Q.   Did you get your massage?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Not yet.

Q.   Do you like the way you look in tennis photographs?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Sometimes I look nice; sometimes I'm intense.   It depends.   You know, sometimes you have that intense look, and then sometimes you're just smiling. 
It all depends.

Q.   Venus mentioned that she's looking forward to playing in the Rio 2016 games.   Any advice for her between now and then with respect to how much she should... 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Stay healthy.   That's all. 

Q.   How many matches do you have that were a lot like the one you had today where maybe you're not feeling the top of your game because of whatever, travel, commitments, whatever, but you just kind of fight through it and do what you can? 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   More than you can imagine.   More than you can imagine. 
So I'm used to it.   You know, definitely more than you can imagine.

Q.   You played both Radwanska sisters both times in different tournaments.   How can you evaluate their games, and which one is tougher to play for you?   What can you say about Urszula Radwanska?   Do you think she can progress in ranking, she has potential to be high in the ranking?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I think they're both great players, great sisters.   I absolutely love seeing another pair of sisters in the locker room that's doing so well.   I think Urszula has worked really hard, and me being a younger sister and Urszula being a younger sister, I'm always looking for her to do well and hoping she does really well.
I think her game is great.   I think what's best about her game is she's like her sister, she doesn't do anything bad.   Those are always tough opponents to play. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT