WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 14, 2012
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/E. Daniilidou
  6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   During the match you were looking like you were struggling either physically or mentally in the match.   Can you talk about that a little bit?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, it's just a tough turnaround.   It's good I played today instead of tomorrow, because that way I have tomorrow off.  
But I think I'll be okay just getting that match under my belt.  
   
 Q.   Clearly after you won match point you weren't happy with your play, but you did survive.   
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I had 44 unforced errors.   That's shocking.   It's unprofessional.   Hopefully I can clean up my act for my next match.  
   
 Q.   Were you expecting Eleni to get so many of your balls back?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   She was running really fast.   I also think the court is extremely fast.   When you're playing on grass and then you go to hard court, especially this hard court in particular is playing a little slower than other hard courts, so that's one thing.  
But I also think she moved really fast and she was getting everything back.  
Actually, that was good for me for my upcoming matches.  
   
 Q.   With your strings with the racquet, I saw you speaking with Sasha and Sasha rewrapping.   
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, my strings, my racquets were just so not right today.   I couldn't hit my shots the way I wanted to because they kept flying.   
I ended up playing longer rallies, which is fine, but I have to have my strings strung right.   It just was not strung right.  
   
 Q.   Given the quick turnaround from grass to here, are you going to do anything in practices leading up to your next matches?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, definitely I am.   Kind of just try to be more serious.   I don't know if that's possible, but I'll definitely try and I am going to‑‑ I don't know.   I don't know.   Just be more serious.   
   
 Q.   Following Wimbledon you had mentioned in the post conference that, you know, a lot of people don't necessarily give you credit for all the hard work you put into the sport off the court.   Can you elaborate a little bit about that?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I do.   I mean, just someone told me in Madrid, they're like, you know, when you ‑‑ people, a lot of players or a lot of coaches tell me that Serena is so lucky.   She doesn't train.   She just shows up and wins matches.   
God, if I could do that, I would.   Oh, I would do it.   (Laughter.)   Unfortunately, that's not the case.   
   
 Q.   How do you look at your fitness now compared to throughout the years?   You looked really fit when you were here yesterday.   We talked about that you're really fit compared to last year.   So where are you at as far as overall?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, I'm definitely I think more fit this year than I have been in my career since I was like 16.   So, you know, just working out.   You know, I think the older you get, the more fit you have to get to continue compete.   I'm excited about it, because I love being fit.  
   
 Q.   Speaking of older, we've seen some more mature players winning a lot of the Grand Slams the last couple of years.   I'm just wondering if experience these days pays off more than maybe in the days with Crissy and Monica and all those teenagers.   You were a teenage champion, too, but...   
SERENA WILLIAMS:   You know, I think eventually there will be more teenage champions.   I think it just hasn't happened yet.   I think the more experienced players like Maria, like ‑‑  
   
 Q.   Li Na?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Li Na and Sam all are very talented and developed and throughout their whole career.   I'm hanging on there, too, you know.   I'm keeping‑‑ I'm trying to continue to develop, as well.  
   
 Q.   Was the hair more of a distraction tonight than it has been in the past matches?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah.   I need to calm it down.   It's really big.   It was really big tonight.   It was a little windy, so it was getting in my face, and so I just put it in this '80s scrunchie that I happened to have.  
   
 Q.   This is a new look for you, isn't it?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, it is.   I have been wearing my ‑‑it's not new.   I just let it go supernatural and super crazy and not kind of care.   It's fun.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT