US OPEN
August 29, 2019
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WILLIAMS/C. McNally   
5-7, 6-3, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What do you make of her playing style, how that challenged you this evening?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: It was definitely something to get used to. You don't play players like her that have such full games.   
But I think she just overall played really well.   
 Q.  What enabled you to start the third set and run off a lot of points in a row?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I had to stop making errors. I made so many errors in the first two sets. I was just too many. You can't win tournaments making that many errors.   
I knew I had to play better, and I knew I could.   
 Q.  You keep talking about how many errors you made. Getting tested like this, is that a good thing? Is this something you could gain momentum from?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, absolutely. I think it's great because I want to be able to win matches where I'm not playing my best, play players who are playing great, be able to come through. I need to be tested, I guess. Sounds scripted.   
Actually, I'd rather not be tested in every match. But that doesn't happen, so it's important for me to have those, like, really rough, rowdy matches. That helps a lot.   
 Q.  Interesting tests the next round. Hsieh Su-Wei, one of the most unusual players on the tour, or Muchova, another crafty player.  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I've played Su-Wei before. Muchova did well in Wimbledon. Actually got to see some of her matches, but not enough. It will be a good job for me to watch a little bit.   
 Q.  Pretty late. I'm curious if your preparation depends on night or day session, do you go to sleep later the night before to prepare?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, night sessions are definitely difficult for me because you don't really get a day off. It's like my day off is not really a day off because I play so late.   
Preparation is different. When you're in a zone all day, at least I am, I'm focused all day, thinking about the match, how I'm going to do. So, yeah, that's kind of just what I do. I just stay in bed and watch the Avengers animated series until it's time to go.   
 Q.  The ability you have to gather yourself in the middle of a match, do you treasure that? Do you look at it you'd rather not have to resort to it?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I definitely treasure it because it's important to have. I've won so many Grand Slams because of it. I also won a lot of Grand Slams not having to use it.   
Obviously I would be so lying if I said I enjoy the tough matches more. But I think looking back years later, I enjoy the tough matches more. But in the moment, in the weeks after, it's definitely a different feeling.   
 Q.  You've been a teenager playing on Ashe before. What do you think that means for someone like Catie today? How do you deal with that kind of pressure?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't know. You just go. You have to ask her because she did a great job with dealing with it. Yeah, she did a fantastic job with it.   
 Q.  What do you remember about your first time playing out here?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't remember my first time playing on Ashe. Yeah, honestly, I can't recall. I would have to think about it. That was like eons ago.   
 Q.  You had a volley at one point you could have hit at her, but you hesitated. Seems like you're less willing to go for body shots these days than in the past.  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't know how to answer that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT