LONDON 2012 OLYMPIC GAMES
August 4, 2012
Serena Williams
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 WILLIAMS‑WILLIAMS/Kirilenko‑Petrova
  7‑5, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You have your golden slam, your first gold in singles, lopsided wins in this last week.   Out of everything that's happened here, what impresses you the most?   
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Wow.   I'm really just impressed that‑‑ I don't know, that I'm here and I'm doing well and I'm playing well and I'm energized and I'm healthy and I have so much room for more and want to do more, so that makes me really, really excited.   
   
 Q.   You both have such big support from your family and friends everywhere you go.   How much does that mean for both of you?   Why do you think that nobody else has it on the tour?   What do you think about Novak Djokovic, even though he's not competing for the gold tomorrow?   
SERENA WILLIAMS:   It's great to have a lot of support.   I don't know why other people don't have it.   Maybe they do have it.   Our box is filled with our family and friends.   We love having our family around.   But we understand if people might feel different.   
As for Nole, we love him.   We think he's a great guy.   I'm always rooting for him.   I'm always joking with him.   I'm a huge fan of his.   I always hope the best for Nole.   
   
 Q.   Compared to the other tournaments here, you're just one of the different athletes of the American team.   Did you feel more comfortable with that to play tennis?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   For me, yeah, I wasn't really thinking about it.   But sometimes I did think, well, there's swimmers and basketball players, boxers, athletes from track and field.   So there's a lot of stuff going on.   
It isn't every day front page Wimbledon, Wimbledon, Wimbledon.   It's the Olympics, so it's good.   Made me relax.   
   
 Q.   Venus, how does this compare, reaching this doubles final, to Sydney and Beijing?   Comment on what Serena achieved today.   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, Serena played so well today.   She performed so well the whole tournament.   I'm really proud of her.   Just, you know, a win for her is a win for me, and of course a win for America.   
I think compares, it's just amazing that I'm still able to play with Serena.   She's a great partner.   I believe in her.   It helps me to play better actually.   I'm glad we're going up again tomorrow together.   
   
 Q.   I've seen all the slam finals that you both played and have never seen Serena playing as well as today.   I'd like to know if you think the same or if I am wrong?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I haven't seen the match yet.   I'm obviously going to watch it.   
I think my last three matches have been really solid playing against Caroline, Victoria and Maria.   I think I played a really good final in Australia, two times, one against Safina, one against Sharapova.   Obviously this one is pretty far up there.   
   
 Q.   I was talking about the finals in the slams, the 14 titles you won, I never saw you play better.   
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   I'd like to know if you agree or disagree or do you remember one where you played even better?   
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I don't know.   I was saying that I played pretty well in Australia twice, once again Safina and once against Maria.   I played unbelievable.   I haven't watched this match, so I haven't been able to step out of the box yet and see it.   But I'll be able to answer that question better later.   
   
 Q.   Serena, five Wimbledon singles titles, now a singles gold medal at the Olympics.   What about this venue brings out some of your best tennis?   
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I don't know.   I mean, Venus, between the two of us, we have 10 singles.   That's pretty impressive.   Five doubles.   It's not bad.   It's awesome really.   
I got tired of looking at Venus' five singles.   
   
 Q.   What will tomorrow be like for you guys?   Will you be a little nervous, loose as a goose?   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I think we'll just come out expecting to play good tennis and expecting our opponents to play well, not taking anything for granted, just give a hundred percent.   That's our whole goal tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Serena, the way you just answered that question, it sort of gives the impression that at times you seem to be stunned yourself with the results that you and Venus have had through your careers.   
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I have never sat back and thought about anything I've done.   I know I've won 14 slams, or whatever.   But I don't look at it like that yet because I feel like if I do, I'll be like, Why am I still playing tennis, I can totally do something else.   
There's nowhere I want to be more, more than on a tennis court.   For me to be satisfied and comfortable, I never look at what I've done.   I know, but I never, like, reflect on it.   
   
 Q.   Serena, next Monday Maria Sharapova will be No.1 in the world.   You beat her 6‑0, 6‑1.   What does that mean?   It's not the first time this has happened.   Still it's quite surprising.   Computer doesn't understand anything about tennis?  
SERENA WILLIAMS:   No, she's had a consistent year.   She was in the finals of Australia, Indian Wells, Miami, won Paris, finals here.   I mean, on paper she's had a super consistent year.   
Victoria went undefeated, so she's had a good year, too.   
I'm just trying to get in with those three girls, fighting with those rankings, so I have a chance to be No.1 again.   As long as I win the titles, I know it will come.   
I'm happy for her.   It's a good thing for her.   
   
 Q.   Venus, could you talk a little bit about what it means after all these years to be with your sister and have this happen?   I was thinking about it watching the Bryans winning the doubles.   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   We talk all the time.   We talked for four years to be here in this position.   We've really fought hard to be in this position.   It means a lot to us.   Olympics is the height of our careers.   I think we both would put it very much up there.   
So we put ourselves in a good position.   We'll try to go again for it tomorrow.   But it's amazing to do it with your sister.   When it's a doubles partner, it's awesome, but when it's your sister, it's a whole 'nother level.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT