WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2012
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/J. Zheng
  6‑7, 6‑2, 7‑9

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How deep did you have to dig there?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Definitely pretty deep.   She was playing really well.   Just have to go out there and do what I could. 

Q.   New Wimbledon record for aces. 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Really? 

Q.   Did you think your serve was going to carry you through there?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Uhm, geez.   It definitely helped me out today because I wasn't doing my best on my return like I normally do.   So it's good to know that I can rely on that. 
The whole match I was able to hold serve I think, so, yeah. 

Q.   Is it a matter of gaining confidence?   Do you have to regain the belief in yourself?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I think that's with any loss, you have to really kind of get that feeling back and regain that.   You know, it's not easy, especially when you're doing so well, to lose and then to try to come back. 
You know, it's all mental.   I'm just trying to do the best that I can do. 

Q.   Your next opponent won the golden set, 24 points in a row.   You don't have that yet.   Does that impress you or does that scare you maybe?   Think it's cool? 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   No.   She's a really good player.   She's playing well.   I played her before.   She does everything really well.   She's such a solid player. 
So I look forward to it.   Hopefully I'll be able to win a point in the set.   That will be my first goal, and then I'll go from there. 

Q.   Did you notice Dustin Hoffman turning up in your family area during the match?   Was it a distraction at all?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   It wasn't a distraction.   I knew he was coming before. 

Q.   You did?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, so I knew that he would be there.   Major fan of his.   Who isn't a fan of Dustin Hoffman?   I was honored to have him in my box.   He's invited anytime. 

Q.   Have you spoken to him before today?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I haven't had a chance to talk to him yet, but I probably will.

Q.   You spoke a bit about your serve.   What were the other things you thought were the cause of the struggles in the first set and that turned things around as the match went on?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   You know, just wasn't making my returns.   I hit so many errors off the returns.   I was just off.   Usually I'm returning really, really well. 
So, uhm, for me I just have to make sure that I can do better.   And the fact that I ‑‑ I think she played really well, I think she played unbelievable, but I still think I can play better.

Q.   What turned it around in your game?   What was the important aspect that you picked up your game in? 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, I started returning a little bit better ‑ not much.   I started making less errors.   Even though for that long of a match I didn't have that many, but still too high. 
Just tried to be more consistent. 

Q.   Second very long match.   Was there anything you learned from the one you didn't win?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Definitely way more calm today than I was in my last long match and the loss.   I thought, Serena, just relax and be calm.   I felt good.   I never felt like I was going to lose this match. 

Q.   With Dustin, what do you like about the guy?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, I don't know him, I just think he's a great actor.   That's more than enough.   I mean, come than, The Graduate.   He's an award‑winning actor and seems like a great person. 

Q.   Interesting results this week.   Wozniacki, Stosur, Nadal; you were taken to the limits.   Roger taken to the limits.   Any idea or anything you're seeing with the grass different? 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Uhm, I feel the balls don't bounce as high.   But maybe I'm higher than normal, I don't know.   I'm just doing the best I can.   Try not to make too many excuses. 
Everyone is playing everyone tough nowadays.   You can't underestimate anyone.   Any opponents, you kind of have to always do what you can. 

Q.   The leap you took after match point was up there. 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Really? 

Q.   What were you feeling?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I don't remember the leap, to be honest.   But I just wanted to get through that match.   The last thing I wanted to do was lose.   I felt good.   I felt like, you know, she's always playing really well, especially on the grass.   She really should be ranked higher than what she is. 
I felt like she started hitting some amazing returns in the last game.   I was like, I just kind of want to get this over.

Q.   Gut check match for you?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I definitely felt like it was a gut check.   I've always been really strong mentally.   That's not going anywhere. 

Q.   Did you get any roses after your appeal the last day?   If you could get roses from any guy on the planet, who would it be?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I'm not answering your question, the latter part.   I can't throw myself under the bus. 
The nice ladies in the locker room gave me some roses, and it wasn't business related.   I was really happy.   They were really sweet, so... 

Q.   Have you ever come close to a golden set?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   No.   I never knew that existed.   Sasha was like, She got a golden set.   I was like, What does that mean?   I immediately thought, She won all four in a row and the Olympics?   I thought that wasn't possible.   That's the only golden thing I know of.

Q.   You have doubles scheduled later.   How do you prepare physically for that? 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I think preparation comes weeks in advance.   You got to get ready for these moments. 
I'm pretty much prepared.   I knew I was playing doubles.   I knew it would be a tough day. 
So I feel good.   I'm ready to go out there. 

Q.   Having been tested this much in this match, how much might it help you for week two?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Definitely helps me to realize that's it's not going to be easy going forward.   Just stay focused.   Everyone's trying to win.   I can win matches like this.   Not that I've ever doubted that, but it's always good to have that reconfirmation. 

Q.   Will you tomorrow just relax, go shopping?   You're somebody that likes to do stuff. 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I'll definitely relax.   I think the soccer final is tomorrow, so I'll definitely be watching that.   I think that's about it. 

Q.   Who will you support?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I don't know.   I'm American.   We don't really have too many ties to support, but I like to watch it. 

Q.   Did you watch the Nadal/Rosol match the other night?   If so, what were your thoughts?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I did.   I'm Rafa's biggest fan.   I was really sad.   It ruined my night.   I was happy for the other guy, but I'm always rooting for Rafa.   I think he's a great fighter and a great champion.   I love his fist pumps on court and stuff, so... 

Q.   What did you think of the way that guy performed at that level in the fifth set? 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I thought, Thank God I didn't have to play that guy, because he definitely would have beat me 0‑0.   He was hitting so hard and hitting winners on absolutely everything. 
Yeah, some days you just play against a player that plays like that.   No matter what you do, they just can do better, so... 

Q.   There's been ongoing discussion about women's and men's tennis having equal pay.   What is your comment? 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   I made a comment on it already.   So I feel like we all deserve what we deserve.   I deserve to get paid the same amount.   I don't deserve less 'cause I have boobs and they don't.   That's definitely not the case. 
I worked just as hard since I was three.   I think they worked hard since they were three, four, two, whatever the case is. 
Actually I have a picture when I'm on the court and I'm in a stroller, so even longer than that.   I definitely know my whole life has been dedicated toward being a top athlete, and I shouldn't get paid less because of my sex. 

Q.   This discussion that is popping up once again, is it saddening?   Does it bother you? 
SERENA WILLIAMS:   No.   I think it's just one comment that made it pop up again and up guys ran with it.   The conversation's totally over for me.   That was so 2000; this is 2012. 
Who is still thinking like that, like honestly?   Get with the program. 

Q.   Centre Court today was pretty much packed.   Court18 was packed for your doubles.   What do you think that says to the conversation about payment?
SERENA WILLIAMS:   Well, whenever I play, you know, I get a lot of people in the stands.   I'm not trying to pontificate or anything, but a lot of people do definitely show up.   So that's what it's about.   You got to be able to bring the crowd. 
More than anything I'm there to play tennis and do well.   I'm not there to do anything else.   I'm here for the tennis.   This is what I have.   This is my joy.   I love being out here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT