U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2011
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/B. Jovanovski
  6-1, 6-1  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Serena.   
  
  Q. Did it seem like a really long time to get a first-round match for you to play?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, it feels like I'm in my third round already. But, you know, it's okay. At least I got one and I made it through.   
  
  Q. You were so composed when you came out and throughout the match. It was difficult to read your emotions. Could you share with us at all your emotions when you walked out, how you felt.   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I was just ready to play. I hadn't played the girl before. You know, so I was just thinking, Just get ready for this match. You never know how people are going to come out.   
  
  Q. In your postgame interview on the court you mentioned you felt nervous. That's surprising given your wins here. What were the things running through your mind?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't know. I always have little jitters I think before I play. Just got to play through it.   
 I was just thinking, I'm just trying to hold the little record I have of first rounds. Eventually things are meant to be broken, but hopefully it won't happen soon.  
  
  Q. Is that a new heart? Looks like it has a little more sparkle on it.   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, this is, uhm, from Graff (phonetic). They gave me all the jewelry that I'm wearing. I love hearts. They're like, would I want to wear this dangly stuff I like, because it's a heart inside of a heart inside of a heart. I don't know why I like hearts.  
  
  Q. After the match you said if you would critique yourself, you would have given yourself a B. What could you have done differently to give yourself an A?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I mean, I could've played more aggressive. I kind of was just out there getting ball backs. Maybe return a little better.   
 I don't know. I'm tired. Aren't y'all tired?   
  
  Q. Your emotions were so different at Wimbledon after your first match. You had such a release of joy, tears, everything. Was this different tonight?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, this is definitely different. Wimbledon was amazing for me to even be there and play. Here I have more preparation and I've been doing better.   
 Again, I'm happy to be here. But, you know, it was just a totally different thing. It's cool.   
  
  Q. The last time you played here wasn't a great occasion. When you walked out on the court tonight, what were you feeling?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I feel fine. Even last time I played here, I went out with a bang. I came in with a bang tonight. So it's all good.  
  
  Q. Since you mention the time, does it matter whether you're on the court at 11:30 p.m. or 11:30 a.m.? Is there any difference body-clockwise?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: If I had to choose, I would choose p.m. The only thing I'm usually doing at 11:30 p.m. if it's not dancing is sleeping, so...   
  
  Q. How was it waiting for Rafa to finish, three hours?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I definitely expected to get on a little bit sooner. But I can wait with the best of them. I think I'm number one at waiting.   
 Venus is an excellent waiter, too. But we can wait. I mean, we hold it down at Wimbledon when it rains. We can wait, wait, wait. So it doesn't usually bother me.  
  
  Q. You're cool with the guys and the women switching?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: No, I think the guys should play second. They're guys. We're ladies. We're ladies. They should totally play second all the time. Ladies, you open the door for ladies. They should go second. It's ridiculous.   
  
  Q. They billed this as Nadal as the warmup act for your match. How does that make you feel?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Really? That's pretty awesome. I'm excited about that. That's cool. I'm really happy to be here. That makes it even better.   
  
  Q. It's like Coldplay warming up for Green Day.   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I could see that. Yeah, I would never see Green Day warming up for Coldplay.   
  
  Q. End of the match, you're up 5-1 in the second set, 15-Love, you're still hustling. What is it that drives you in that moment?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: In that moment I was ready to get off the court, to be honest. It was late. I'm thinking I could be at home doing something else. So maybe I should try to keep going and pushing it. I never give up. I never quit.   
 I don't like to give away things. I've given away enough in my life.  
  
  Q. You're an emotional person, a thoughtful person. You get on the court. How do you not think about the Clijsters match a little bit?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Because the last match I played on that court I won. It was a doubles match and I was very happy. I was in a tremendous amount of pain. I was so happy to win. I was happy.   
 I think it was two years ago, and last year I didn't play. If anything, I thought, Wow, I'm back. I haven't played in a long time. I'm telling you, out of sight, out of mind for me. You guys should try it (laughter).   
  
  Q. Are you glad that this moment is over, now you've played that match?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I'm always glad to be done with the first round. I feel like when I'm done with that, then I can kind of go through and just play. But I'm glad that that one's over. Took a long time, it seems.  
  
  Q. Are you reluctant to put the label 'favorite' on yourself?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, no, I'm just here to play. Everyone's been playing all year and I haven't. So, what have I played, Eastbourne, Wimbledon, a couple more, Stanford. I've played like five tournaments this year. I don't think that's usually a favorite going into another Grand Slam.   
 You know, it is what it is. I'm just happy, again, like I can't even express how excited I am to be playing. I'm thinking choose here or cast. Second on or cast. Second on. It's a blessing. I'm so happy.   
  
  Q. Given your post-match routine, realistically what time are you looking at falling asleep tonight?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't know. I'm a night owl. I don't sleep a lot. Honestly, I could go out, but I know that's not the right thing to do (laughter). I really could go for shaking a leg or two, but I probably definitely won't do that.   
 I don't know. I'll probably go to sleep -- what time is it -- 1-ish. Probably 2-ish. I'm good. Four hours is more than enough for me.  
  
  Q. Will you be awake when Venus plays tomorrow?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Oh, yeah, my day will be done by then.   
  
  Q. Rafael said when he got back to Manhattan at 4:30 in the morning after one of his late matches the only food he could find is McDonald's. What are you going to do for food?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I love McDonald's, I really do, but I'm not going to be able to eat it. I always have left-overs. I'm left-over queen.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT