WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2010
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/N. Li
  7-5, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Serena Williams for you. 

 Q. She can be tricky to play sometimes. Was that the case today? How did you feel like you played?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: She's definitely tricky at times, and I've had a run-in with her several times. So, you know, in the first set, even the second, she definitely has her ups. 

 Q. What about her game gives you the most fits? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, you know, I never really think about dreading playing anyone. I think that's a start. Then I just, Well, she's good at moving the ball around. So I worked on that. She's good at making unbelievable shots. 
 She's a good server. Believe it or not, she serves really, really well. Really well.

 Q. Her placement?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, she has excellent placement.

 Q. Were you aware with what was happening with Venus before you went on court? Did you ever know the result until after your match finished?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I saw her in the locker room before I went out. 

 Q. How did that affect your play, if at all? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't know. I don't know if it affected my play too much. I just had to keep playing and focusing. 

 Q. With players like Hingis and Kournikova in the senior division today, does that make you think you must be getting old, or... 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I could ask you the same question (Laughing.) 
 No, no. I definitely feel like I'm obviously a veteran on the tour. But, you know, there's so many other things I do in life that I feel really young yet.

 Q. How do you rate your serve today?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I thought it was really consistent. I didn't have as many aces. I only had 11. But I thought I had a lot of service winners, which weren't necessarily winners but were unreturnable serves.

 Q. And compared to Li?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Li, I thought she served well. She placed the ball. It was only one or two breaks. But she really serves well. 

 Q. Are you serving as well as you ever have?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I definitely think so. I never serve this well. I always serve well at Wimbledon, but this is the first time I've ever served this well so consistently. 

 Q. Is it a mixed blessing, Venus going out, so you don't have to face her?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: No. I obviously always want her to do well and want her to be right there.

 Q. A lot of people are announcing the title is yours to lose. 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: No, it's not mine to lose, it's mine to win if I can get it. There's three other people that are vying to win it. They have just as good a chance as I do. 

 Q. How do you feel about your next opponent, Kvitova? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: She's a good player. I mean, I've actually thought she would get through in the early rounds. I'm not surprised that I'm playing her. 
 She is lefty. She's really, really good.

 Q. What made you think she'd get through? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, early in the tournament, I saw her playing a couple rounds and I was like, Wow, she's doing really well. She was just hitting the ball so clean. 
 Obviously, when she beat Wozniacki I wasn't surprised, because I just saw how well she was doing and how well she was playing. 
 She's a really tough player, especially on grass.

 Q. There are always a lot of -ovas around you. Do you feel this time there's a new revolution? Which sort of revolution is it? They are very young, from Bulgaria, from Czech Republic. Maybe new faces?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, so many new faces just in general on the tour. You know, every year there's so many new players and so many new faces. I think it's good 'cause it keeps the sport exciting.

 Q. Can you describe how much Venus' presence on the tour contributes to your enjoyment of being on the tour. 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, having Venus around definitely makes it easier sometimes. If you lose, it's always nice to have a sister that's been through the same experience kind of, can really only understand what you're going through.

 Q. What is your role in a situation like this after she had this tough, disappointing loss?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: You know, I don't know. I don't know, just shake it off and just keep going really. 

 Q. Do the two of you speak in the locker room? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I spoke to her. 

 Q. Can you tell us what that conversation was like?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: That was a private conversation. 

 Q. Why are there so many -ovas and there are no more Williams around? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, my dad and my mom stopped having kids after me, so... There wasn't able to be any more Williamses. I think for the most part the tour is excited it's only the two of us. Any more and it would be disastrous, especially if they were younger ones that keep doing well. Yeah (Smiling.) 

 Q. There are new faces, but not a lot of young faces. How come we don't see more teenagers breaking through, winning majors these days? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, I think everyone else wants to win, too. I think there are teenagers that are still doing well, but just having a tough time breaking through. Maybe they run into someone like me or Venus or Kim, you know, who are more experienced, know what to do in the tough times.

 Q. Is that mental, emotional?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I have no idea. I have no idea. I'm no longer a teenager. 

 Q. Similar question: Why do you think there aren't more young American women coming up?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I think there are a lot of young American women coming up. I just think it's getting the opportunity to break through. We saw the young girl at the US Open break through. She's doing well. There's a lot of other players. The Fed Cup are in the finals. Venus and I weren't even able to play this year. So it's consistent two years. 
 There was a whole new team, a lot of bright players beating a lot of people.

 Q. With Fed Cup coming to San Diego next, have you thought at all -- are you thinking about playing? Is it a possibility, not a possibility? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I'm always thinking about playing. You know, it's just always so tough. Usually I can't walk in November. If they want me, I'll play. 

 Q. How would you describe what the pursuit of this Championship means to you? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Uhm, it obviously means a lot. Every Championship means a lot. I don't feel like I've been playing my best tennis in this Championship, strokes. I feel like it would be a good win to get under my belt.

 Q. You mentioned Li Na serves well. How do you rate her mentally? Is she mentally as strong as you are? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I think she's very mentally tough, and that's why she's doing so well. 

 Q. How does this Championship rate compared to last year's for you as a player?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't know. I feel like last year was last year and this year is this year. For me, I'm really trying to focus on doing well this year. 
 Sometimes if I get too caught up, then it doesn't end well. 

 Q. Mary Joe has been pursuing and pursuing you for Fed Cup. Your comment that you'll play, is that a firm commitment to leading our team? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Uhm, you know, it is what it is. I always want to do the best that I can, just see what I can do. 
 Like I said, I usually don't walk in November. But hopefully I'll make the Championships and do well there. I would have played last year, but I couldn't. I would have been a burden to the team. So we'll see. 

 Q. You talk about other people, Clijsters and Henin, your sister. They're not here. You are still here. What is the main reason you are still the No. 1, the big favorite? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Uhm, I don't know. I'll take that as a compliment. Thank you. Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT