WIMBLEDON
June 20, 2010
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: A very warm welcome to Serena Williams, our 2009 champion. Great pleasure to see you here. I'm sure she'll be delighted to take any questions. 

 Q. You went to Wembley Stadium to see Green Day. Was that to prepare you for the decibel levels on the other side of the net?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, absolutely. You know, did a little cardio there, was jumping around a little bit. It was amazing . Everyone knows I'm a massive Green Day fan. They were so close. No chance I could have missed it.

 Q. How are you looking forward to your opening match? Michelle came in with a bit of suspect publicity last year, makes a lot of noise on court. How do you handle that?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I do the best I can, play the best I can. Nothing else I can do. 

 Q. Are you looking forward to seeing the Queen possibly on Thursday?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I found out that she was coming in town. I thought, Wow, this is really, really cool. She hasn't been to this tournament in just forever. I thought, Wow, I just got to make sure I'm here on Thursday. 
 I'll be playing on Thursday, so I don't know how that's going to work out. Hopefully I have a chance to meet her. 

 Q. Yesterday Venus said she's not that big a World Cup soccer fan but you like to watch, so she kind of watches as a result of that. What do you enjoy most and what are your observations so far? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, gosh, what I enjoy most is the excitement, the goals. I don't know. I'm really into it. I'm a huge World Cup fan. I live for World Cup for the past several World Cups. 
 I just enjoy the matches. I enjoy how all the countries are so involved. They're so into it. It's really, really fun.

 Q. What were your observations of the USA game the other day?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Man, my heart skipped several beats. I'm surprised I'm here. There's no way we shouldn't have won that match. It was really, really upsetting. 
 A tie is okay, but we totally got that win. I was really upset about that. But, you know, review. 

 Q. What do you think of that goal being nullified? What were your observations at that point? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: That was ridiculous. I mean, the other team had so many fouls going on. I thought, Wow, this is crazy. Then the goal was clearly a goal. I was, like, screaming and jumping. Then it didn't count as a goal. Then I was like, No way, what's going on? It was outrageous. It was totally outrageous. 
 But I'm sure the other country didn't think it was outrageous. I'm just looking at it at one side.

 Q. Will you work your schedule so you can see the next game?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Gosh, I hope so. When does the USA play again? 

 Q. On Wednesday. 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Oh, hopefully I'll play a little doubles early or whatever and then I'll get to see 'em. Fingers crossed. 

 Q. What is it like for you every time you come back to the All England Club, the first time you walk back in?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: It's cool. It's a good feeling, you know. I get to be here, be amongst so many champions. Really just go out there and do really well. I really enjoy it. 

 Q. Do you have a special way of mentally preparing? I suppose the pressure's on you, being defending champion, is much greater than your competitors. 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I don't feel pressure. You know, I'm here to win Wimbledon like the other 128 people in the draw. That's kind of how I look at it. Whether I come out with a win or whether I don't, it's just an opportunity for me to be here. You know, excited to play here. 

 Q. One of the past champions, Maria Sharapova, is back from the rotator cuff problem. What have been your observations of the way she's battled back and what she means to the tour?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I haven't been able to see too much of her play. But I know just that she's a really hard worker and that her attitude on the court is definitely carried off the court of never giving up, always fighting. 
 It's not easy to come back from any type of surgery. She is clearly doing well. I know she won a tournament recently. She's doing good. 

 Q. Kim and Justine are back at Wimbledon this year. They missed the last couple. How much do you relish the extra competition from those two? They were pushing yourself and Venus all the way a couple years ago. 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, it's cool they're back in the draw. It's fine. I answer this question every week, so... Look at my other transcripts. 

 Q. Looking forward to London 2012, are you hoping to compete for gold? What do you think of Wimbledon as an Olympic venue?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I think it's great as an Olympic venue. I think it's probably the best tennis venue in the world. It's going to be hopefully on grass, which I look forward to. I understand there's mixed doubles. Hopefully I'll be able to compete in that, if I qualify. 
 I think it's good. 

 Q. What do you think, for you, the formula for victory is at Wimbledon compared with all the other places that you play? What's different about having to approach matches here? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Uhm, I don't know. I just think you just got to approach 'em -- I approach every match the same really, whether I'm here, whether I'm at, you know, a tournament in North Carolina or South Carolina. I just kind of look at it all the same. You go here and you do the best that you can and you try to just go for it. 

 Q. What sense of enjoyment do you have with Venus together because of all of your success at Wimbledon as a team in doubles and as individuals? What is the enjoyment level that the two of you have together here during this fortnight?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, we're here to work and we're here to do our best. Hopefully that's taking home a title. 
 What enjoyment we get out of it is just the satisfaction of working hard and seeing the fruitage of that. 

 Q. Getting back to Thursday with the Queen being here, I think the Club is leaving it up to the individual players whether they'll bow or curtsy. What would you do?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, I definitely don't think I should take a bow, so I'll probably curtsy (smiling). I've been working on my curtsy. It's a little extreme, so I'm going to have to tone it down (laughter). I'm going to have to tone it down a little bit. I have a lot of arm movement.

 Q. Do you have a curtsy coach?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Actually, I was practicing it this morning, so... Like I said, it's very extreme. I get really low. So, yeah, I have to tone it down. But we'll see. I hope we'll have a chance to do that. Hopefully I won't do that, but hopefully I'll have a chance to curtsy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT