WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2010
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/M. Sharapova
  7-6, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. Does your win over Maria Sharapova give you added satisfaction given what happened in 2004?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: That was so long ago that I don't think it gives me any more added or any less satisfaction.   
  
  Q. What type of player was she compared to six years ago? Is there a noticeable difference either in you and her or just her?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, we're both different players. It's kind of hard to say. She's obviously improved. Hopefully I've improved since six years ago.   
 It's definitely hard to say.   
  
  Q. Were you inspired by John Isner?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: No. I mean, I'm always inspired by that guy. Hopefully if I could serve like him, I'd be a star.   
  
  Q. You had to be pretty happy with the way you served today.   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I served well today. I had a little bit of a hiccup. But she returned really well. It forced me to serve really well.   
  
  Q. Is it good to have a tough match like that in the Round of 16?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah. Honestly I feel like I've had tough matches this whole trip. I feel like I've played a lot of players that are in the top 10 in this tournament.   
 She's obviously a former No. 1. So, yeah, it was good.   
  
  Q. What are your thoughts on the next match?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I'm playing another tough player. Li Na always gives me a run for my money. Just be positive and play more consistent.   
  
  Q. You said the other day you always seem to serve well at Wimbledon. Have you served much better than you did today? Maria said nobody can beat you if you serve like that.   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I hope so. I hope if I serve like this, at least I won't drop serve. So I really served well.   
 I don't serve like this typically at the French. I clearly serve like this in Australia. I don't serve like this too often.   
 I don't know. I don't know what it is about this court that makes me serve well.  
  
  Q. You said the other day it was always intense when you guys play. Did it feel that way today?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, it's definitely tense. I mean, she's so good and mentally focused and she's so in it for every point. Even on match point, she's really trying 200%. It's every moment.  
  
  Q. How would you grade your performance today?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I think I served well. It was just hard to get a rhythm out there. She served really well. It was different.   
  
  Q. You've spoken always this fortnight about following the World Cup. What are your thoughts about instant replay and some of the calls that have been so obviously wrong?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't know if I can be a genuine fan of football because of the calls. I mean, the call with the England game was outrageous. I mean, it was just... And this is natural. This is human imperfection. Humans can't be perfect, which is why there is technology.   
 I mean, I don't understand how, in this day and age, they don't have better technology. It could have been a totally different game if it was 2-All. Unbelievable.   
  
  Q. Maria is one of the few players who will go with you toe to toe, take big cuts with you, play the quick points. Do you like playing an opponent like that, or would you rather play someone more defensive?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: It doesn't matter. You just have to be ready for anyone and everyone. I don't really care who or what style I play, to be honest.   
  
  Q. What is your level of appreciation for the way Maria has come back from very serious surgery to be back at this type of a level?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I mean, it happens to the best of us. I mean, she was able to do it. A lot of people are getting surgery and still playing. So that's tough.   
 You know, there's no excuses being made.   
  
  Q. With respect to Maria specifically, do you have any observations about the way she's come back to this particular level to give you a run in this game today?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Uhm, yeah. I mean, you know, like I said, I've already answered that question.   
  
  Q. Federer was against electronic officiating in tennis. Are you for it or what are your thoughts about Hawk-Eye in tennis?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: In tennis, I think it's good for the fans, so I like it. I don't really use it too much. But he uses it a lot to be against it. I think he uses it all the time.   
 But, uhm, I think it's good 'cause it kind of gets the fans involved, too. So I think it's really cool.   
  
  Q. Why don't you use it a lot?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I'm really sure about myself. I know if I hit a ball in, then I'm like, That was in. Or if I know it's out, then I don't even bother.   
 But, uhm, sometimes I'm off. I'm not right a lot. But when I'm questioning, I'm like, Was that in? I'm really sure about which way it goes.  
  
  Q. It should be used for more than it is now? There was the situation in New York. Do you think it should be used in many instances?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: For like foot faults?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, for sure. I don't foot fault. I haven't foot faulted since before or after that. So, yeah, it should definitely be used in all situations.  
  
  Q. What are the court conditions like?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't know. I think I don't know. Is it dry? Where I'm from, we're just happy to be here. I don't really pay attention to the court conditions. I'm excited to be playing.   
  
  Q. But are they playing fast, hard?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: You would have a better guess than me. I'm just out there doing my thing, seriously.  
  
  Q. Your necklace today, the pendant, is it a copy of the Rosewater Dish?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, that's what my physio asked me. Honestly, I wish I could sit here and say it's my design, but it's not.   
 I came here necklace-less, if that's a word. I didn't have a necklace. I borrowed this from Venus. Seeing how many times she won Wimbledon, it probably is something about the trophy.   
  
  Q. Is it a copy of the trophy?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't know. I have to ask her. It's not mine. It's on loan.  
  
  Q. Is it bringing you luck?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I hope so. She's always winning here. I'm serving uncharacteristically good. Maybe it has something to do with it.  
  
  Q. She's not getting it back?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, I don't want to, but I hadn't planned on giving it back. Now if she reads my interview, it will be a problem (smiling).   
  
  Q. You say Li Na gives you a run for your money. Can you elaborate on why you think that's been the case in the matchups before?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I think she gives everyone a run for her money. She's such a tough player. She never gives up. Right when you think you have her, she comes back. She's a player you cannot count out.   
  
  Q. Today was tough and you played really well. After today, do you feel like you are close to playing against your sister in the final?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, if I win two matches and if she wins two matches, then yeah. But if not, then no. We'll have to see.   
  
  Q. Have you felt like, Oh, I'm going to play against my sister today, after...   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I want Venus to win and to do well, but do I want to play her? Not really. She's really tough, especially on this surface.   
  
  Q. Jennifer Capriati, are you going to get in touch with her?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I probably will definitely see how that goes and pray for everyone involved. If there's any way I can do anything to help, reach out, I definitely will do that.   
  
  Q. Is the tennis tour really a tough place for players mentally? Is it just a real challenge to go out there and be a performer week in and week out?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't think it's easy to go out and perform every day. I think you have to have some sort of either real mental toughness or have some tic loose in your brain.   
 I don't think it's easy, but it's definitely, uhm, something that you either love or you hate.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT