MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 12, 2010
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/M. Jose Martinez Sanchez
  6-1, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Nice workout for you today?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, it was a good workout. Yes. 

 Q. Enjoy the heat? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Um, it was definitely getting hotter the longer I stayed out. So I needed that. I need to play in the heat as much as I can. So it was okay. 

 Q. Also question of trying to conserve a little energy as well because it's a long week and it's your first match and it's pretty hot?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I'm not trying to conserve too much energy. I just try and give as much as I can in each game that I play and do the best that I can.

 Q. The first match of the tournament and first match of the year. How did you feel? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I felt all right. You know, obviously don't feel my best, but that's what the game an all about, you know, taking it one match at a time and just doing the best that you can.

 Q. When you start a new year, you've already achieved so much, do you set yourself any targets?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, my target is always to end the year and play all the tournaments that I entered in. That's a huge, huge effort for me. So that's my target again. 
 I didn't quite make it last year. I think I was two tournaments short last year, so it was really good. I'm hoping to reach my target this year. I was three tournaments short.

 Q. What's the target roughly? What's the number of tournaments?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't know. I just play the bear minimal. They make you play certain amount, and I just play the bear minimal of that. I try not to play too many extra at all. 
 Although this is extra, so that tells you a lot about my love for Sydney, or Australia actually.

 Q. I'm not sure if you've seen your side of the draw but the seeds have been decimated. You're the only one left. Obviously you won't play another top 10 player until perhaps the final. Would you prefer to be playing girls at that level going through the tournament, or is it a bit easier to sort of work up to the Australian Open?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: You know, I don't care who I play. Whenever I play someone they play their best. I believe I play Vera Dushevina next and she's a good player and she's been, you know, ranked high before.
 So whoever I play, believe me, they're gonna play like No. 1 on that particular day against me for whatever reason, so it doesn't matter for me. 

 Q. Is it more the match practice going into the Aussie Open?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: It's definitely more match practice. I'll hopefully get a couple more matches under my belt. I'm guaranteed at least one more, so hopefully I'll try to do some more. That's the goal.

 Q. Do you enjoy this challenge of the other players rising against you?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Sometimes it's good; sometimes it's, um, not so good. That's what makes, you know, the competition good. 
 You have to always -- no matter what, I have to be at my best, because whenever I play these young ladies they're always at their best.

 Q. The seeds have fallen and the fright you got in round one here last year, did you have any particular nerves going into this match?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: No. I'm always nervous my first round, so I don't know if it's a little anxious or a little anxiety, but I always try to stay as relaxed as I can and realize at the end of the day, I'm just gonna do the best I can, whatever that is. 

 Q. What did your mom say about snow boarding?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: You know what, I don't think she's been reading the press. She hasn't mentioned it yet, so you guys be quiet. (Laughter.) 

 Q. She hasn't said anything yet?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: She hasn't said anything yet, and I have not said anything. Seven-year rule. I'll let her know in seven years.

 Q. Have you have had chance to get around Sydney much?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, honestly I was thinking about it today with my mom. I was like, Oh, we were here for the Olympics in 2000, and, like, was that ten years ago. 
 So I am -- you know, so we're like, Ten years, and then I remember White City. I went to the Opera House. I've done it all. It's such a fabulous city. You always see it in movies, like Mission Impossible. So I feel really cool. (Laughter.) I feel really cool to be in a cool city. They're always filming movies, so I'm excited. It's fun.

 Q. You ever attempted to do the bridge climb?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: No. I'm terrified of heights, so I never want to do the bridge climb.

 Q. You've won the Aussie Open every alternate year... 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I know. I know. Don't say that.

 Q. What have you changed this year to change this sequence? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, it's not a bad thing to win every other year, so I'm not gonna complain about that. So I want to win this year, but if I can win guaranteed next year, I'm okay with that, too.

 Q. Your outfit, is it orange, red? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: You know, I describe it like a burnt orange and burgundy. Yeah, it's interesting. 

 Q. What do you think about how well Justine Henin has come back? A final in the first tournament last week. 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah.

 Q. Obviously she looks like she'll in contention again. 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't think anyone is surprised anymore with what Kim was able to do, and Justine. She's been out for, what, 14 months? So, you know, she's had enough time to recover and have a break and come back. It hasn't been too long, so... 

 Q. You said on television the other day that you can't remember ever feeling more relaxed going into a Grand Slam. Why is that? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't know. I feel like I have no pressure on myself. I feel like, you know what, whether I win or lose, I'm gonna give my best. My goal is to do well, obviously. But I mean, I can't put too much pressure on myself winning or losing. I just gotta play every match. 
 If I play the best I can play, I've always said I'm very difficult to beat if I play my best.

 Q. Does holding the No. 1 ranging make any difference to you?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Absolutely not. I'm excited to be No. 1, sure. Yeah, sure. But at the end of the day, it's all about just doing the best you can not only on the court, but off the court. Just, you know, being the best person I can be. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT