AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2010
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Looking a head, what was your assessment of today's match?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I thought today was a little bit better than my match in my first round. I felt like I was moving better and I had better energy. Yeah, just felt all around a lot better.  
  
  Q. How far do you think you are off your best form percentage-wise: 60, 70, 80?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: No, I don't think I'm that far, yet. But I'm hoping to at least get there. I felt like I could have actually played a lot better today. She was definitely taking it to me, though. That was really good for me to play a lady like her.   
  
  Q. Did you watch Venus's match and is that in your mind as you go out to the same court right after your sister?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: No, I didn't watch Venus. You know, I was glad she won, obviously. I can't really watch her on TV, and definitely not before I play. I get way too nervous.   
  
  Q. You won the first round doubles match very easily. How is that helping you with your singles?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: It's definitely helping a lot with the singles. Doubles is always so fun to play, especially with Venus. It doesn't get better than playing doubles with her.  
  
  Q. Is it a fun thing for you? Does it sort of relax you?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Definitely relaxes me. Sometimes I get stressed out because I don't like to lose in doubles. We take it very serious. You know, we had fun yesterday, but we're serious out there nowadays. We go for the best that we can do.   
  
  Q. Have you ever played with anyone else in doubles?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I have. I played, believe it or not, with Martina Navratilova . That was after the comeback, just F.Y.I., it wasn't when she was No. 1. I'm not that old. (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. Where did you play with her?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I played with her in China. We didn't win though. But it was a pleasure for me because I always grew up watching her. It was really cool.  
 I think that's it. I don't think -- oh, I've played with Alexandra Stevenson one tournament that we won. So that was fun.   
  
  Q. If Venus was hurt would you consider playing with someone else or would she feel betrayed?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: No, we would definitely play with someone else. I love playing doubles and just being out there. Obviously Venus is my first choice, but I wouldn't mind playing with someone else.  
  
  Q. With the mixed now being part of the Olympics, are you gonna think about playing more mixed before?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I'm gonna have to play a little mixed so I can get my body ready. Hopefully I'll be chosen on the Olympic team. When that time gets closer, I'm gonna play a little mixed. It'll be fun. I'll have a blast. It's important, I think, to get used to your partner.  
  
  Q. Who would be the ideal mixed doubles partner?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Obviously Andy. We have so much fun on and off the court. We've talked about it a little bit. There are some other Americans coming up. If Andy is not playing and doesn't want to play, I have a couple other guys in mind. Tall Americans.   
  
  Q. So the Bryans haven't been lobbying for your services?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Are you kidding? I would love to play with one of them. I think Venus is already trying to get down on one of them. So it's like -- you know, I'm definitely gonna go and have fun though. I would hate to play against one of those guys. I don't know if I could take it. Make me too nervous.   
  
  Q. In singles there's so much attention on Henin's comeback and Clijsters. Do you, as the defending champion, feel like it's your tournament to lose?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I feel like if I play well I'm really tough to beat. Still definitely feel that way. I'm so happy to see Henin back and doing well. She's such a good player and a fighter. I think she brings just a totally different theme to the game. Obviously Kim is fun to have back on the tour, and her winning the US Open is awesome.  
 I think it's great to have these ladies back. It's fun.   
  
  Q. What about Suarez Navarro?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, she's really good. She has so much talent. I know she took out Venus around this time last year, if I'm not mistaken. I would hate to see it become a habit for her, taking out a sister this time every year.   
 So I have to be ready.   
  
  Q. Will you speak to Venus about it?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, definitely will talk to her and see what goes next.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT