AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2010
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Serena, please.   
  
  Q. How is the knee?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Uhm, the knee is much better. So, uhm, it was good for me to get all those matches in. So it was good.   
  
  Q. Has it hampered your preparation?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Absolutely not. If anything, it helped. I played a lot of matches in a row, you know, back to back. I had a long three-set match. Eventually, you know, I had a quick turnaround time. But that was good preparation for me because I do plan on playing both singles and doubles here, so...   
  
  Q. Do you like this surface and how different is it from the US Open surface?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: The surface is definitely more soft. It could be a little more harder on your body because it's almost like a little rubbery, but not as much as it seems it used to be. I think it's still Rebound Ace, so... .   
 I don't really think too much about that. I just go and play and do the best that I can.   
  
  Q. Do you have thoughts about Justine Henin's return?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: What an amazing effort and quality for her and both Kim Clijsters. It's so good to see two such good players back.   
  
  Q. How excited are you to be involved in this time of women's tennis? A very strong field this year. What are your thoughts on that?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, I think it's a great field every year, to be honest. It's good to be back and be a part of that strong field. So, uhm, you know, I definitely look forward to just being in the draw is awesome.   
  
  Q. How much were you hampered by your knee in the final last night? Can you give us a percentage of how you felt?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Uhm, I don't know if that would be very nice. I definitely wasn't at my best.   
 But, you know, I feel like it's very comforting to know that I wasn't at my best on that particular match. But, you know what, I never want to make excuses. I think Elena played well. She always plays me well. I think we always have really fun, tough, tough matches. With that being said, I thought she played amazing.   
 What athlete really is at a hundred percent every time? Probably never, so...   
  
  Q. There's three favorites for the tournament: yourself and the two Belgians. Is that good company for you?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, absolutely. To even be considered is cool, but I don't think about it too much.  
  
  Q. Last time we saw you in a Grand Slam, there was that little incident in New York. How is your anger management coming along?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Was it anger management, do you think?   
 How is your writing coming along?   
  
  Q. Just fine, thank you.   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Great. Ditto, kiddo.   
  
  Q. What do you think about your first-round opponent? Have you played her before?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I've played her before at Wimbledon. So she's a tough cookie. She's a tough player. And she's definitely no push-over.   
 She's a younger sister, and younger sisters always want to play really hard and really tough. I know that for a fact.   
 It's definitely not an easy first round.   
  
  Q. You canceled your practice session today. Was that just to rest the knee or you felt like you've already had enough tennis?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, I definitely had a lot of practice with Sydney, getting that far. You know, don't want to push it, go too far. Definitely want to do the best I can obviously, but also want to pace myself. Hopefully I can play seven single rounds and six double rounds.  
  
  Q. Was there a certain time in the match that the problems started last night? Was there a certain point?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, just a little bit. Really from the beginning. But, again, I could have still won had I played better, had I made more shots. I thought Elena played really well.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT