ROGERS CUP
August 22, 2009
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. DEMENTIEVA/S. Williams
  7-6, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. The service problems you were having today, how much was it you having them and how much was it her return game?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't think I had too many service problems. I think I served better today than I did my first two rounds. 

 Q. You lost your last two service games of the first set and all five service points in the tiebreak. 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, so I guess -- you know, I didn't look into the stats. I don't really remember. 

 Q. You didn't start grunting until the second set, and I thought that was going to be a sign that you were coming back. Could you say when you do and when you don't grunt? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I usually always grunt, but for whatever reason I wasn't grunting today was no reason -- I think maybe it was the weather. I don't know. It was no reason in particular.
 I don't know. I did notice in the first set that I wasn't grunting, and it was just kind of weird. It was like, Hmmm. 
 But usually I do grunt. I don't know.

 Q. No rhyme or reason?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: No, my guess is as good as yours.

 Q. Can you talk about your opponent's play today? Was she much tougher than the first three players you faced in this tournament?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, she was obviously much tougher. She gets a lot of balls back. 
 You know, it was a good match for me, and I really hope to have another go at her at the US Open, because I learned a lot from today's match.

 Q. It was strange. You seemed very in control. You were serving for the first set, and then it was -- it all seemed to go away. Did you feel that it wasn't happening today, or did she take it away from you?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: No, I mean, I had it, and I really probably should have won the first set which probably would have had a different result, but I didn't. 
 I didn't play -- I started making a lot of errors and just key shots I should have made, and she hits tons of short balls, and I just stayed behind the baseline. I guess that's what happens when you do that.

 Q. On a day like this, do you feel the fire? We've seen you play with such fire at different times. It was hard to tell today. Were you feeling it, you know, as you do in the big matches?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I mean, I can't say I was especially feeling the fire and the burn, but obviously I want to do well and I always really want to do well. I really wanted to win. Honestly I think I could have and should have won, but I didn't. It is what it is. 

 Q. You've played her many times over the years, and she's always had a really good ground game, but can you talk a little bit about the fact that she's serving better, does that make a difference in the matchup now?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Always, whenever someone has a decent serve, it always makes a big difference.

 Q. Can you talk about how a match like this would change your preparation for the US Open?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: No. Sometimes when I lose I learn a lot from my losses, and I feel like I learned a lot today as to -- especially on how to play her, and I feel like, like I said, I feel like, you know, I didn't win today, but I think -- I hope I'll win the war.

 Q. What did you learn from playing her today? You said you learned a lot. You're going to take away a lot. 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, I just learned how to play her, and I learned how to win. And had I played better, not made as many mistakes, I think I definitely could have won the first set. I was serving for it. I probably should have won, and I didn't.
 You know, she played -- she started playing a little better, but I still know what to do next time.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT