U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2009
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/M. Czink
  6-1, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How did it feel going on second?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: It was fine. I mean, playing after Roger, it couldn't get better because he played pretty fast, especially for a men's match. So that was fine.   
  
  Q. Is there anything you can tell us about the bandage that had been on your wrist?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Oh, uhm, I always have it on. Usually I have a Nike wristband on.   
  
  Q. Over it?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, so...   
  
  Q. So nothing unusual?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: No. I always actually wear it. I just forgot to put my wristband on it.  
  
  Q. Your dad said you're hurting so badly you should go home. Is he exaggerating?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: No, he's definitely exaggerating. I'm fine. Feeling really good. Haven't felt much better.  
  
  Q. Have you tried to talk Venus out of playing doubles to save her knee?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah. I haven't had a chance to talk to her too much. We've been playing a lot of matches. I took care of her son yesterday, Harold. I talked to him a lot, but not to her.   
  
  Q. You and Venus are the only top players who play doubles in a Grand Slam. Why have do you guys do it?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I mean, I have a great partner. I think she has a great partner, too. It's a no-brainer. It's easy playing with her. It's fun. We love getting out there playing doubles. We love to give the fans a little extra. We have fun.   
  
  Q. Does it help your singles?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Uhm, I think ultimately yes. I think ultimately it helps. So you have to be really fit to do both.   
  
  Q. When you guys were kids, did you play doubles a lot together?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: We did play doubles, and that's how I got to play the forehand side. Because we played a lot of doubles and I was weaker, so my dad told me had to play the forehand. I've been playing it ever since.   
  
  Q. It looked from watching you that a lot of things were clicking tonight. In your estimation, was it as good as it looked to us? Did you play as well as it looked like you were playing?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't know. I actually would like to go back and watch the film. I hope I did. I mean, I'm always trying to improve. Like I said time and time again, I'm just insatiable.   
 I still think there's things I can do better, but I'm glad that there is, because that means there's higher levels to reach.  
  
  Q. You played her a couple weeks ago. When you have a couple weeks to look at the film and prepare for someone, is there a sign about how much better you can be?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, it's easier when I've played someone before, especially playing her so soon and then really getting a feel for the game, and for her game in particular. So I think it was a lot better.  
  
  Q. Did that foot fault get you...   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I traditionally don't foot fault. I'm sure I did. I haven't foot faulted this year, except for my first round they called another foot fault on me.   
 But that was the third one all year. All three have been here. I was kind of frustrated because I hit a great serve, best serve I hit in months. Yeah, I was just like, UGH.  
  
  Q. You gave him quite a stare down.   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: They do play that song, Straight out of Compton when I walk out.  
  
  Q. They called a bunch on Venus the other night, too.   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, so we never traditionally do foot faultings. We'll have to adjust our feet and go from there.   
  
  Q. What do you think is the key to you being so consistent on serving in pressure situations where other women struggle?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't really think about it. I just play my game. I play well under pressure, I guess. I don't know if that's something you can buy or you can have. I think it's just innate.   
  
  Q. Speaking about playing an opponent again, you're next opponent is someone you played at the French Open. Had a little bit of an incident about her being hit or not hit by a ball.   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: She was hit, yes.   
  
  Q. Looking forward to this?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah. I mean, she plays well. She plays a fun game. She's a tough cookie. She's aggressive. Another lefty, so it will be a good match.   
 It's not on clay, so that will be interesting to see. But she does everything good. She moves well. She hits well, so...   
  
  Q. So there is a decision to make before you play doubles, there's a chance you might not play?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: No, we have a doubles match tomorrow. We'll be out there.   
  
  Q. You said earlier...   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I hadn't talked to Venus about how her knee was doing. I should've elaborated. I haven't had a chance to talk to Venus about how her knee was doing, or what she had been doing.  
  
  Q. Can you imagine a circumstance where you would say to Venus, As much as we want to play this doubles, I don't think we should?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah. Obviously, I want her to do the best in singles. I want to do the best. I want her to do the best as well. If it's that situation, it's that situation.   
  
  Q. Is she stubborn about stuff like that, or will she take your advice?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: She's really a great competitor, so... She pretty much takes my advice if I offer good advice. I don't traditionally offer good advice, so she doesn't normally take it.   
  
  Q. Why have you been so good at the Grand Slams, so much better, than other tournaments over the last year?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't know. Maybe it pays more. My answers are going to get worse from here on out. It's late (laughter) and I'm tired (laughter.) That wasn't a very good answer, but...   
 I guess I'm trying to pay off my mortgage, so. I should do better. If I had won the US Open Series. I tried, though. I placed, which I think was the first time I placed ever. Maybe next year I'll win.  
  
  Q. Was it fun having Shaq at your house?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, it was really fun. I took a picture with him and my two girls, my little dogs. It was just so cool. He's so big and he's holding these little dogs. It's so funny. I should have put it on some website or something.   
  
  Q. How would you describe his tennis?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: How would I describe his tennis? Very in need of practice.   
  
  Q. Can he serve? He's tall.   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't recall him serving. I don't recall him serving. We worked on his grunt. I think that was his strongest point of his game, for sure.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT