ROGERS CUP
August 19, 2009
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/Y. Shvedova
  6-3, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. I just wanted to ask you about those splits and how often you do that. That was awesome.   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I, um, I'm really flexible, and I've been -- I don't know. I just love doing the splits off the court, and so I never really expect to do it on the court per se.   
 You know, on the hardcourts sometimes you can slide, and before you know it, you just do the splits. It was just total coincidental, but it was like a great G moment. I was like, Oh, my God.   
 I couldn't believe I hit the ball down the line and won the point. I was so shocked.   
  
  Q. Well, you watched all the photographers, too, and it was just like -- it was awesome.   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Oh, thank you. It was like, Wow. I was really shocked.   
  
  Q. Little off topic, but there is a report that you and your sister are going to buy a share of the Miami Dolphins Tuesday or something like that. Care to comment on that?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, you know, we -- you know, there's always so many opportunities out there, and Venus and I are always trying to expand our brand and do the best that we can do. If opportunity presents itself, we would love to see where it can take us.   
 You know, who knows what's going to happen? You know, hopefully we'll be able to expand and continue to expand our brand.  
  
  Q. Is that the motivation, to expand the brand, or is there something else beyond that in terms of ownership and being an African-American owner of an NFL team sort of thing?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, like I said, we don't know what's going on. There's been preliminary -- wow. I think that's another word I can't pronounce. Help me. Preliminary. Is that right? Okay. Preliminary. I have a problem with "aluminum," too. (laughter.) Anyway, that's off the subject. Those words are hard for me to pronounce.   
 You know, there has been talks, the P word and talks. And hopefully it will work out. I mean, that would be a great opportunity for both of us. We'll see what happens. You never know. We'll see.  
  
  Q. The Bondarenko sisters have caused your family some trouble in this tournament. Any comment on your upcoming match?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, they are great players. They do well in doubles, but it will be a good match. I look forward to it.   
  
  Q. I was reading on Twitter that your dogs ate your dinner before the match.   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Can you believe it?   
  
  Q. Can you tell us their names and what they had?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Jackie and Laura; Lauralie.   
 Lauralie, I heard her choking. I'm thinking, Laura, you okay? But she had this huge piece of chicken in her mouth. I'm like, You're kidding.   
 Jackie was over there sneaking, grabbing a little bit when I wasn't looking. I thought, these dogs are just -- mommie has to play and mommie is trying to feed them, and if I don't play, then it's going to be harder for me to provide for them.   
 They just didn't care. They just ate my food. I obviously couldn't eat it after that, and it was just -- I was going to have a talk with them on my way home. We're going to talk about it, and hopefully they won't do that anymore.   
  
  Q. Where are they when you play? Do they often travel with you?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, they often travel with me where I can take them. I usually can't take them to Asia and stuff, so I'll miss them. They just sit in the stands.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT