OPEN GDF SUEZ
February 14, 2009
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What happened?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I wasn't moving well at all in practice. Actually at all. So it was just really no chance. 

 Q. Left knee, right knee? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: No, it's my start knee. My left knee always hurts, but this time it's my right knee which never hurts. So that's good news. It will be fine, I think. 
 So I'm going to make the effort to play and be there and do my best, and see what happens in the next few days. I just think that, you know, I've been playing a lot. So I'll be okay. I've just got to make sure it stays strong. 

 Q. You said it was during the match against Emilie Loit that you hurt your knee? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I think it was towards the end. And so I guess I didn't have enough time for it to recover, maybe. I don't know. 

 Q. So you said you didn't feel good this morning in practice? What was the feeling? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, I was limited with my movement. And so, well, I'm the kind of player that I feel like I want to give or be able to at least give at least 80%. I feel like I can do pretty well against most players. 
 But today I don't feel like I could even have gotten there or even close to that. And I wanted to make the fans extremely happy. And it wouldn't have been a good effort for me. It wouldn't have been a good showing for me at all. 

 Q. Before the start of this tournament, you had no trouble with that left knee? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Right. Right knee. No, my knees have been really good, and I'm really optimistic. I think they'll continue to be really good. I just have been playing a lot of tennis, so maybe it's just a sign that I'll need to take a day or two off and get ready for the next event. Which is next -- two days. 

 Q. So with that injury sidelining you, will you take some time to enjoy Paris this weekend? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Probably not. I would love to, but I'm going to just definitely make sure I get, you know, everything ready for the next tournament, which is, like I said, in a couple of day's time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT