OPEN GDF SUEZ
February 13, 2009
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Did you have fun on the court? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Definitely. I thought it was a good, lot of fun. Definitely a tricky match. 

 Q. Easier than the last time? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Pardon? 

 Q. It was easier than the last time when you played in Australia?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, it was definitely easier. Was that the last time I played her? I thought I played her before that. I don't know. I don't have a great memory. 
 But it was definitely good to get through, you know, I don't play too many lefties. 

 Q. But was it good for your game, because her game is not like the other players so it's not easy maybe to get used to that? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, you know, you definitely have to get used to it. And I think it was good for me to work on those low balls, and I think it can only help me in the future. I thought she played really, really well today.

 Q. At one point in the match, I think it was at the end of the first set, I think you got mad at yourself, and you threw and you threw your racquet on the ground. What was the reason? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Did I? I don't remember. Like I said, I don't have a good memory. Maybe because I was angry. 

 Q. She said after afterwards that you being number one in the world is a very good thing for women's tennis, because of your career, your personality, of your game, the pressure you put on the court. What do you think about it? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I think that's a really unbelievably nice thing to say. I never -- the thought about me being number one good for tennis but I'm just happy to be here. No. 1 I think is really cool. 
 And most of all, like I said, I love to win the big tournaments and just in general winning tournaments, and obviously, this is one of my favorites. 
 So, hopefully I can continue to be a good ambassador for women's tennis. 

 Q. How do you feel is your game this week, and with Dementieva with the final coming, do you feel you're at your best? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I definitely don't feel I'm at my best. But I feel I'm getting there. I think that we both have a really good match tomorrow, for sure. 

 Q. This question has nothing to do with this tournament. In may there will be an exhibition at Wimbledon with a new center court with the roof and everything. So there will be Agassi and Steffi Graf and Tim Henman and Kim Clijsters playing an exhibition there. 
 Clistjers plans to play a couple of exhibitions, maybe one or two tournaments, she might come back on the tour. What do you think about that? And what do you think about this player? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: That would be cool first of all to see her. I haven't seen her in a couple of years. She definitely is fit enough to come back. And she's clearly young enough to come back. And I think she can do great. So it will be good to see. Hopefully they won't wear out the grass too much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT