SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 28, 2009
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/A. Glatch
  6-2, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How do you think you played today?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Uhm, I think I played okay. I definitely think I could have played better. But, you know, just a little jitters going out there, having -- you know, the first round no one wants to go out.  
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit about the first round bye? Do you think that helps you by giving you an extra day of rest, or does that help the opponent because they've already gotten out the jitters, gotten used to the conditions?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: It definitely helps me. I'm all for byes. I think as a top player, you know, the top 10 or whatever, you should be able to have a bye because you work hard. I think you work harder to be at that level.  
 So I think it helps you at the end of the day, because usually the top players go farther in the draw.  
  
  Q. I heard you have a new clothing line.   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, it's clothing and jewelry and handbags. Serena Williams Signature Statement Collection, which is going to be on HSN. I'm really excited about it. You guys know I'm really into fashion. I've kind of always been into the fashion aspect.   
 You know, to finally be able to reach a different crowd that can reach millions and millions of people is really cool for me.  
  
  Q. Was there a particular person or somebody, something that inspired you?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, the reason I went to HSN that inspired me was because I have a good friend. Her name is Mindy Grossman, and she was actually with Nike for a number of years. She put me in the, like, the boots that I wore and just some fabulous fun, amazing outfits.   
 So when she went to HSN, it was just almost like a no-brainer. That kind of totally inspired me to be part of such a wonderful network.  
  
  Q. Is your style similar to Venus', then?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: We're totally different. Like I'm more -- I call it like more Hollywood type style and she's more Indie. She's good at styling. She could put something on and look fabulous, whereas I have to always have someone pick it out. If not, I will always be on the worst dressed.  
  
  Q. We're always trying to figure out who the next American star is gonna be. Have any of the young players particularly impressed you?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I think Alexa played well today. I thought she had a really good game to watch, a really different game. You don't see that type of tennis being played too much, since, you know, a few years, or several years.   
 So, you know, I think she has a really good game. She's really young, so she has a bright future.  
  
  Q. Do you think the situation is as dire as some of us make it out to be, the handwriting about where American women's tennis is going to be in five and ten years after you and your sister are gone, or do you think there will be some players who will emerge?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I definitely think there will be some players who will emerge. I think it's inevitable. I know there is a few players right now that are doing well, and hopefully they'll continue to do well.  
  
  Q. Where are you with electronic line calling these days?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I mean, I don't mind it. Sometimes it sucks when you know your ball is out and they challenge it. But other than that, I don't really use it too much unless I'm sure.   
 So for me it doesn't really change anything, because if I use electronic line calls, usually I know if my shot was in or out.  
  
  Q. So your batting average is pretty good?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I think so. (laughter.) I heard it was pretty good, so...   
 I'm going to say I heard it was very good.  
  
  Q. As somebody who is involved in the game and sort of pointed to as having been the impetus for bringing it into the game, you're happy that it's here?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I'm really happy it's here. Sometimes you can get some line calls that are -- could possibly be three feet in and three feet wide that was in. Like the line call I got a few years ago, so I think it was best.   
  
  Q. Alexa is 19. What do you remember about being 19 and how far you've come and what you had already accomplished?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, I think I had a lot of pressure on me already because I had won a Grand Slam. I was -- I remember just 19. I won -- at 19, this time, I had just won Indian Wells. I think that was the last time I played there. I may or may not have won this tournament. I don't know. And, you know, I was very impressionable.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT