MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 14, 2009
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/C. Wozniacki
  6-7, 6-3, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
  
  Q. You had the luck of the Irish and no Irish bones in you.  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Maybe there is Irish bones in me. It definitely was lucky today.  
  
  Q. How do you prepare for that kind of match? I know you watched her a little bit.  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I've watched her a lot, and she played totally different from what I seen her play. I think this is the best she's ever played in her life really.  
 So, you know, hopefully she'll keep it up.  
  
  Q. As experienced as you are, did you have to tell yourself, Look, just keep playing and something might go right for me? I mean, it was getting very tight out there on a couple occasions.  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I was a little tight, but it was just more my mistakes. I felt like I had a lot of errors on easy shots and I really should've closed it off in two sets.  
 I kind of spoiled some opportunities that I had. Not really happy with the way I played today.  
  
  Q. Is this the perfect sort of preparation for the Australian Open, I mean, two really tough matches like that?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I think it is. Just trying to get the match play I definitely think is good. It has definitely been good preparation for me.  
  
  Q. Quick turnaround tomorrow. Early afternoon start.  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I'm ready. I've been training enough. If I'm not ready by now, it's too bad, right?  
  
  Q. After a match like that do you need a rubdown tonight or tomorrow, a massage?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, I don't feel bad right now, so I'll see tomorrow how I feel. But I'll just throw some ice on me and go to sleep.  
  
  Q. You look really composed in those pressure situations. Are you actually composed on the inside?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I'm composed. I was a little angry that I was even in that situation today, because I felt like I probably shouldn't have been in that situation. You know, I just kind of -- I don't know.  
 But I was composed. I just felt like I didn't really anything to lose too much.  
  
  Q. And with your ankles, did you roll them tonight?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I rolled them twice, and I think it was just because I was sweating so much and the tape got loose. I missed one easy shot because I rolled my ankle and it was just frustrating because it was like, Ah. But it was okay.  
  
  Q. When you broke your string in the first set tiebreak, did you think that might be a sign of the night?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, that was -- I guess I shouldn't have been in the tiebreak, so I should have been able to win that set faster. That's how I kind of look at it. Bad luck, but at the same time, Serena, why are you even out here in this situation?  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT