U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2008
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  S. WILLIAMS/E. Vesnina  
6-1, 6-1  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Would you have liked a better workout?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I told you, no. I like quick matches. They're the best.   
 You know, no.   
  
  Q. Not at all? Not even to hit a few more balls?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I feel like I've been practicing a lot and playing so many matches. I feel like she played pretty well actually and she hit some balls and she hit some angles and that was good.   
  
  Q. So can you tell us how well you were playing yourself? Not too many long rallies, only three or four?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah. Not too many long rallies but serving pretty well. I think that's one of the main keys to my game.  
  
  Q. What about Sugiyama?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: She's pretty much relentless. I better be ready. That girl is a tough cookie.   
  
  Q. Questions come up in the press room a lot with the women about the fact that the No. 1 ranking has changed so many times this year. So this question has been posed, you know, is there a parity or what's it like not to have any one dominant player. Jankovic, Ivanovic and Safina all stopped and said, wait a minute, there's Venus and Serena. So don't forget about them. So they cited you guys as the dominant players on tour right now. How does that make you feel that the top women in the world are still looking at you two as the ones to beat?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, definitely makes me want to work harder and do better. You know, I believe those statements. I always believe the match is on my racquet. I think every time I lose is because of me, not because of the other person.   
 So I think that's pretty much dominance. I feel honored that they would say that. Like I said, makes me want to work harder and do better.   
  
  Q. Can you empathize with Ivanovic? You have come to the Slams before not completely healthy.   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I was in that position last year. Pretty much ruined my thumb and I didn't play after Wimbledon at all. So you know it was a tough position to be in and you just got to keep working for it.  
  
  Q. What's the thought though in deciding to play the Grand Slam anyway even though you know your chances of winning aren't that great?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, it's like who wants to win a Grand Slam, especially the US Open? The US Open, it's a great city, it's a great tournament, the atmosphere is par to none. It's awesome. So I think that pretty much makes the decision.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT