XXIX OLYMPIC GAMES
August 16, 2008
Serena Williams
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  WILLIAMS-WILLIAMS/Bondarenko-Bondarenko  
4-6, 6-4, 6-1  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you're playing better and better with each successive round?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Well, I think that obviously the teams are tough. But I think the longer the match goes, the better that we play. I think we just expect ourselves to keep raising the level. That's really what it takes in this kind of competition.   
  
  Q. Things really turned in the final set. First two being so tight and so close. What made the difference?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, we just really started playing better together as a team. We started changing up our shots and just staying on 'em. We got a strong break early, and we was able to make sure we held our serve.   
 I think that was the turning point, just making sure we held.   
  
  Q. Women's tennis has as many marquee events as men's. When it comes to the Olympics, it seems like all the stars show up. In the men's case it's not the same. Do you have any explanation why that might be?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS: None. I have no idea what the next player is thinking usually, except for her (referring to Serena).   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: It's hard to say. Personally I've always wanted to compete in the Olympics because when I was growing up I saw so many great U.S. Olympic champions. So I just wanted to go.   
 I don't know why, you know, some of the other men don't want to come.   
  
  Q. A medal won together is sweeter than an individual medal. What do you say to that?  
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Obviously, we would have loved to have brought home more medals for the U.S. We did the best we could arriving to this final match. To bring it all home is great.   
 We are happy, then, what we have. We're not asking for more at this point. Next time we'll ask for a little more.  
  
  Q. How much temptation is there to celebrate having clenched at least a silver and how much of a sense is there's still work to be done?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: For me there's no temptation to celebrate. We always want to do the best that we can. We always want to go for the highest peak. You know, it's exciting to be able to medal no matter what. I never thought about that really. So it's kind of cool.   
  
  Q. Why does everyone in tennis prefer to win a slam instead of an Olympic medal. In doubles maybe it's better to win a gold medal than win a slam event. Do you agree with this?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Honestly, you know, I can't answer that 'cause I have both. For me I always said my gold medal is the best thing for me and I'm so happy with it.   
 But I do also have some Grand Slam wins, as well. So it's like I can't really say.   
  
  Q. Is doubles more important in an Olympic event than in a slam?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't know. I mean, I think it's equally as important. To win a Grand Slam in doubles is just as fun as winning a gold medal in doubles.   
  
  Q. Serena, you talked about how you like to pull out your gold medal and show it to people. Do you have space for this next one or do you have to do some reorganizing?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I have a lot of space for this. Hopefully I can get it. Hopefully we'll be able to -- I'll be able to show people a new one.   
  
  Q. You played very late last night. What sort of condition are you looking for going to the final? Do you think it might take its toll on your fitness come the final?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Not at all. This whole schedule has been so late that we're used to playing late. We're totally fine.   
 VENUS WILLIAMS: We're fine.   
  
  Q. You were saying you wanted to do far better in the singles, get another medal for the United States. Reaching the final of the doubles, does that go part of the way in filling the void of what happened with the singles?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS: No. In the Olympics, I think it's very different. Medaling for your country is medaling for your country, whether it's in a singles or a doubles competition. So it's a little different from the slams.   
 A gold medal is priceless in sports. So there's really not a difference in my head. I mean, obviously we wanted to win more medals. But a gold in doubles is the same for me.   
  
  Q. Can you describe how difficult it is to come here and play this tournament. You have a minor tournament in New York coming up. Is this good preparation or bad preparation?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, I think at the end it's good preparation because it's so hot here. It forces you to be in your best shape. It's on the same surface. So, you know, it is on the other side of the world. But we made this decision a long time ago, to play the Olympics, and we knew what we were getting ourselves into. So we're going to be excited to go there.   
  
  Q. Do you see yourself still playing for the Olympic Games in London or is it too far away?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I'll be in London.   
 VENUS WILLIAMS: I definitely will be in London.   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Absolutely.   
  
  Q. Because it will be played on grass?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Even better. But, you know, we'll still be pretty young.   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, for sure.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT