WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2008
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  S. WILLIAMS/J. Zheng
6-2, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Serena Williams for you. 

 Q. You looked as though, towards the end of the match, as you really want to win this now in case the third set gets dangerous. Were you feeling like that?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I definitely felt like I wanted to win it now, but at the same time I was ready for the third set. I felt like I would have had -- I would have had a lot of confidence going into the third set. 
 Any other questions (laughter)? 

 Q. This will be the seventh Grand Slam final between you and Venus. Could you give us your reflections on sort the previous finals. There doesn't appear to be a classic final, Grand Slam final, between the pair of you. 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I think you're stating opinions. I've had a very classic Grand Slam final against her at the Australian Open. It was three extremely tough sets. It was a long match. It wasn't very easy. 
 And I think also at the US Open it was fast, but it was a very high-quality tennis. 
 So I look forward to it. 

 Q. Now that you are in the final, do you think you really are going to steal Venus' breakfast?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I'm thinking about it. I really am. I obviously really, really, really want to win. 
 But most of all, I'm gonna just try to stay focused.

 Q. Which weaknesses will you be aiming to exploit?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Oh, yeah, I don't talk about my opponent's weakness for fear she might read this interview. 

 Q. None of us can imagine what it's like to face a sibling with so much on the line. How do you pursue something you want so badly without thinking, at the same time, I'm denying that to my sister?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Oh, it's easy, especially with sibling rivalry. It's like, you know, I personally want everything that Venus has. So, you know, she wins a trophy, I would desperately want it. I would be really, you know, eager to have it. 
 We're good at this now. We just leave everything out on the court. This is the finals of Wimbledon. Who doesn't want it? 

 Q. How much is this just simply on serve and return?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: It will definitely be -- I'll have to definitely come up with some big returns, as well as she. And definitely will have to serve well.

 Q. Are you surprised it's been five years since you played a Grand Slam final against each other? And why do you think it's been five years?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I'm definitely surprised. It's definitely been a while. Unfortunately our ranking fell. We've been on the same side of the draw a few times. You know, I unfortunately lost a lot. 
 But it's good. I mean, this is a new start for us. 

 Q. Is there any reason why it is at Wimbledon rather than the Australian or the U.S. or the French? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I lost in Australia in the quarterfinals, so it didn't work out. 

 Q. I mean you get into the finals together. 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, I mean, we've been in the finals at all four of the slams. Maybe in the US Open a couple times. Here a couple times, or three times now. 
 So, you know, we've both been working extremely hard. It's just coming together. 

 Q. Will you discuss the final at all with your sister?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I think we're both so elated to be here, and we're still in the doubles. Tomorrow we're going to be fighting to win our semifinal in the doubles, so that's the only thing on the schedule next. 

 Q. In what way has your relationship with Venus changed or evolved over the past few years that will make this easier to play her, for both of you to play your best tennis?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Actually, I think we've gotten closer in the past few years. We talk about a lot. We talk about everything more so I think now than we've done in the past. 
 It's just gotten easier for me personally because I just realize that I want to win. Again, this is Wimbledon. If it was the US Open, it would be the US Open. This is a Grand Slam. This is history. We both are trying to make our mark. 

 Q. Venus started out on the circuit earlier than you. Do you remember in your early life when you first realized that you two could become the best players in the world?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I just always assumed we would be the best because we worked so hard. It was kind of like natural, like we just expected it. 

 Q. Having struggled so much with injury, how satisfying is it to be now in a Grand Slam final, looking very fit?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, it's really satisfying. I can't even begin to tell you. You know, it's just been a long time coming for me. I mean, I have won a couple Grand Slams in between, but I feel like now I'm just really fit and I'm just on the right level, you know, to continue to play tennis on a consistent basis and high quality on a consistent basis. 

 Q. Do you think the level has changed in the last few years? Do you think it's more intense?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I definitely think the players are more intense and everyone's traditionally (sic) just playing a lot better. 

 Q. Emotionally when you play her, do you feel any different? Because she's pretty contained when you play her. You against other opponents, you let out the big Serena yell. When you play her, you're either focusing more or you just don't want to scream?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, traditionally I haven't screamed as much when I played her. I don't know why. Maybe I just want to stay focused. 
 I don't know what I'm gonna do. I just know I'm just gonna try to go out there and do my best.

 Q. Are you just afraid she's going to yell back at you and say, Stop that screaming, Serena? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Venus is not a yeller at all. No matter what I do, she won't yell. 

 Q. What was the India match like?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Oh man, I wasn't fit at all. She wasn't fit. It was three tough sets. It was really intense. I was lucky to win, and hopefully I'll win again. 

 Q. It's 4-2 to her in Wimbledon titles. Do you think you still have it in you to finish with more titles than she does at Wimbledon, or would that matter to you?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: God, of course. But right now, we're just talking -- we just go on a Grand Slam total (smiling). That's what counts. 

 Q. You've been in so many slam finals, is still very special when you walk out there, when you have the feeling? Today you won the semifinal, you know you're going to the final. Do you get that feeling in your gut thinking, Yeah, this is just fantastic?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I was especially excited today. I don't know why. I guess usually I am excited to get to the Grand Slam final. 
 But today I was really excited because I feel like it's just coming together now. Like my game is doing better, as well. Like I was serving better and moving better. 
 You know, so, I was just -- it's always exciting. I think anyone can say that to be in a Grand Slam final is great. I mean, everyone wants to take it to the next level. 

 Q. The top four seeds falling out early, did that make it any easier for you guys to get to this point?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, I think it might have even made it tougher. When a top player goes out, it's like the spirit and the whatever in the locker room is like, Okay, I can -- the lower-ranked players are like, I can take a top player out, too. 
 It's like it just keeps going on and on. When we're playing someone that isn't ranked as high, they're especially like, If these other top players went out, I can beat another top player. So it's like everyone is even playing better. 

 Q. Will it be more comfortable for you to basically not communicate a whole lot with Venus over the next day and a half? How are you going to handle that?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, no, I'll be fine. I mean, we're living together. It would have been kind of weird if we didn't talk to each other. Maybe I should try that. It will be like really intimidating or something (smiling). 

 Q. Did you watch any of her semifinal today?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I did. She was playing right before me. So I was kind of watching to keep the score, trying to warm up, as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT