XXIX OLYMPIC GAMES
August 12, 2008
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  S. WILLIAMS/S. Stosur  
6-2, 6-0  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Awfully clean. How are you going to improve on that?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: It was clean. My way of improving on it is to keep it up. I played really clean matches in the past, the next one would be kind of streaky. I don't want to do that any more. I just want to keep playing the same consistency.   
  
  Q. You'll play against Alize Cornet. Would you like to speak about this match?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, I think she's really talented. I think she's playing well. I look forward to it. I haven't played her in a while. I never played her on hard. You know, it won't be easy, and I love a challenge.   
  
  Q. Usually you play for prize money. Here in the Olympic Games, you are playing to participate or only for a medal?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, it's an honor to compete in the Olympics. It's been great. Obviously I'm playing for a medal, but I have to get there first. That will be the ultimate goal for me.   
  
  Q. Was there any one thing specifically that really satisfied you the most?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I thought my returns started to get more consistent. I mean, she started out serving really well, and then I just felt like, okay, they started getting better. You know, I wasn't blasting every one; I was trying to place it. I think it worked out.   
  
  Q. Playing in the world arena as well as the Olympics, how do you find yourself?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Playing for the Olympics, you're playing for your country. You're playing to get the medal tally on your country higher. It's an awesome experience.   
 I've never played singles at the Olympics, so this has been really cool for me. Every time I walk out there, it's like I'm playing in my match, but at the same time, you know, I have the whole U.S. team on my side.   
 It's good. I really like that feeling.   
  
  Q. Is 10:30 about as early as you ever started? Do you like those early starts?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: It was early. But, you know, with the time difference, I'm still waking up, like, at 5 in the morning. So it's good. It's, like, 10:00 is perfect timing for me. I like the early matches.   
  
  Q. Normally when you're at a tournament the focus is purely on the players, the tennis players. Over here there's so much else going on. Do you have to put your mind into a different setup to really work hard on the focus and concentration because there's such a buzz around the place?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, this is the Olympics. And I even get excited to watch the swimming and the gymnastics. I was even watching the archery yesterday.   
 I'm able to stay focused 'cause, you know, it's just like watching TV. It's awesome to be at a big arena where it's not just about tennis. For me it's purely about athletes. It's just every athlete of every sport brings their best. And it doesn't get better than that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT