WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2008
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  S. WILLIAMS/U. Radwanska
6-4, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Serena Williams for you. 

 Q. Could you please tell me a few words about Urszula Radwanska. Was she a good opponent?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I thought she was a really good opponent. I think she has a very bright future. 

 Q. Two matches in, can you just talk about how you felt you played today and your level overall. 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I felt I played okay. I felt like I was a little tight out there, and just, you know, didn't want to go out on the Court 2. But I was just happy to get it over. 

 Q. Do you think about that, Court 2?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I did. I never really think about that, but that did kind of cross my mind. I was excited to get the first set under my belt. 

 Q. Could you hear those bones rattling around out there?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, and then it was windy, too the conditions weren't great. I felt like I should just get it over with. 

 Q. How was the doubles yesterday? Did you enjoy that with Venus?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, of course. I love playing doubles with her. I was especially proud of myself because I lost two points on my serve. So I was like, Yes! So that was really cool. 

 Q. How has your mobility been tested so far, and what are your thoughts about it at this point?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: It's definitely been tested, especially today. I thought she moved the ball well, but I felt like I was moving fast. I felt like there was no ball that I couldn't get to, at least have to make an effort to get to. I'm feel good with my mobility. 

 Q. At this point in the tournament, the cliché question is: Are you where you want to be? More specifically, what have you come in thinking you really needed to do well that you see you are doing well at?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I think the only thing I need to do well is just stay positive and just, you know, not get down on myself and put too much pressure on me, because I tend to be a perfectionist and I want everything to go right. 
 I think it's just really important for me to just relax and realize that not every point is going to be perfect. I think that's mostly what I need to do.

 Q. So in these early rounds, how much pressure is there on you that you put on yourself and have to avoid?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I mean, it's -- only pressure that's on me is the pressure I put on myself. Like I said, I'm a perfectionist and I want everything to be right. I've been really trying not to do that and just relax. 

 Q. How do you do that? How do you relax?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't know. I don't know. I haven't mastered that. I'm open to suggestions.

 Q. Did you watch the marathon women's match that was going on with Ana Ivanovic?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I saw little bits and pieces of it. Not too much. Not really. I wasn't really watching it. 

 Q. Will you be playing doubles with Venus at the Olympics and repeat the success from Sydney?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: We hope to. We definitely will be playing doubles. We're most elated about that. We cannot wait. I'm playing singles, too, so it's good for me. We can't wait. 

 Q. How do you feel like you're serving? Your serve is such a great part of your game, can bail you out of trouble, particularly on this surface. Do you think about coming into the tournament that your serve is going to be key to making a deep and successful run here?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Absolutely. If I'm serving well, my whole game is better. I haven't been serving great yet, but in practice it's unbelievable. So I'm like waiting on it to come in the match. 
 I figure it's going to come when I need it, sooner or later. 

 Q. Is it first-serve percentage, consistency, location?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: In practice I don't miss a serve and I'm hitting all aces, and in the match I'm missing 'em, my first serves. I don't know why. I'm gonna figure it out, though. 

 Q. Looks like you might play Mauresmo in the next round, an experienced grass court player. Has a one-handed backhand that will present some different challenges. 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I haven't played her in a while. Look forward to it. I had no idea I might play her. I'm excited about that. She's been struggling a lot this year. So you can only hope that she does well, especially being a past champion here, and a past champion in general. It will be a good match. 

 Q. Is that low slice problematic for you?
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Oh, no. I've developed a slice myself. I'm really excited about it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT