U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2007
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  How do you feel you played tonight? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  I played better than my first round.  I'm glad I'm not training too soon.  So, yeah. 

 Q.  How did you feel physically? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  Physically I'm fine.  I feel like I'm really good.  Not tired or anything.  I'm really fit. 

 Q.  Was there a point that you were a bit uncertain in this match because it was a little close? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  No, I felt like I had opportunities, and I didn't take them.  You know, should have been a different score line. 
 But that was only because I missed the wrong shots at the wrong time. 

 Q.  Are there things you're going to do differently preparing to go into the next round? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  Well, just want to play a little better each round, as each match goes on. 

 Q.  How about the support from the New York crowd? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  It's been great.  The support is, you know, amazing.  Seems like I always forget how loud they are, how fun the crowd is.  It's just a different feeling and I really love it. 

 Q.  About the experience playing under the lights in New York City. 
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah, I love playing under the lights.  It's great.  Sometimes it gets a little confusing with the high lobs, but other than that, it's really good. 

 Q.  Earlier today Venus said if things had gone differently, if she could have gone into another sport, she might have gone into track.  Is this any other sport that you could have envisioned yourself playing? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  Well, I liked track, but I didn't like the long-distance runs.  I don't know how dedicated I would have been like training and stuff. 
 I probably would have been a good sprinter.  Other than that, no, I think I would have tried to go be an actress or something. 

 Q.  Who is faster? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  Hmm (smiling).  I don't know.  I'm really fast, especially in a sprint, I'm really, really fast. 

 Q.  How far do you think you are away from playing your best tennis? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  Well, I haven't played my best tennis at all in the first two rounds.  I'm glad to have gotten through them, but I don't feel like I've been playing great. 
 I don't know how far I am, but I'm better than I was in the first round, and hopefully each round will be a little bit better, a little bit better. 

 Q.  What would you like to see, what are the specific things you'd like to see pick up? 
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  Well, my return of serve is usually unbelievable.  I've been returning a lot.  So I'm just waiting on that to come back.  I would like to see that go a little better.  Just a little bit of everything. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT