WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2007
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Serena Williams for you.   
  
  Q.  It was kind of strange, the ending.  Did she make the challenge or did the umpire ask her to make a challenge?  What happened there?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  It was weird.  The umpire said -- because I don't think Alicia heard that the ball was called out.  She said the ball was called out.  If she wanted to challenge it, she could, so...   
  
  Q.  That was fine with you?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  I mean, I would have.  I told her, I said, You may as well.  I would have challenged it, too.  I'm not upset.  I'm not going to hold it against you.  She was like, Okay.   
  
  Q.  Yesterday you encouraged your sister.  Today you were sort of like yelling at yourself, agonizing.  Was this a tough match?  Were you just not playing well?  She was serving well.   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah, she was serving really well.  She's playing really well on the grass court.  She has one of the biggest serves in women's tennis.  She has a very consistent serve.   
 She's hitting a lot of slice.  She's really a good grass court player.  If she probably hadn't have played me, she probably would have gotten really far in this tournament.  I knew that going in.  It was just a match like that.   
  
  Q.  What is the state of your game right now?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  You know, I'm feeling better about it.  I'm excited to get through today because I knew it wasn't going to be really easy at all.   
  
  Q.  Were you troubled to any degree by the hamstring injury?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  No, not at all.  Not today.  I was feeling better.  Don't jinx me.   
  
  Q.  What are you thinking when you're down 4-1 in the first set?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  I was really angry.  It's like, Okay, Serena.  I don't know, I just got really angry.  I thought it was unfair that I got down so far.  I was like, Okay, it's just one break.   
 But 4-1 looks worse than one break.  I thought if I could just hold and break and hold, I would be okay (laughter).   
  
  Q.  What do you think the cause of the unfairness was?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  I don't know.  I was just saying that.  She's a tough match to play in the second round I think more than anything.  She's been off a while, which is probably why she isn't seeded here.  But it's not an easy second-round match.   
 I don't think that was unfair.  I mean, obviously I was just saying I just need to play better.   
  
  Q.  Yesterday you were so into Venus' match.  What goes through your mind when you're out there?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  She was playing really bad yesterday.  It was like Venus never gets down on herself.  She's like -- she's the type of person I want to be.  You can never see if she's angry.  You can never see.  She doesn't have any emotion.  She's just like one track.  You can't read her.   
 Yesterday I could read her.  I could tell she was frustrated.  She was hitting every ball out.  It was like she wasn't playing well at all.  I was just thinking, Oh, my God, I just got to tell her to stay in there, just like stay focused.   
 Because she's practicing much better.  It was just one of those days that you don't want to go out in the tournament in the first round when you're playing so bad.  It's like, okay, if you could just get through this, it would get better.   
  
  Q.  Is it weird because here your sister is, you're so close to her, but yet she is such a different personality type.   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  I know, it's so weird.  We're so close.  We have complete opposite personalities almost.  I guess it works well.  Geminis and Libras are like a perfect match.  That's what I credit it to.   
  
  Q.  Air signs?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah, I don't know.  Are they both?   
  
  Q.  Which one are you?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  I'm a Libra and she's a Gemini.   
  
  Q.  When do you play doubles?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  I don't know.  We might play tomorrow.  I thought we would play today since I was first on, but I guess not.  I don't know.  We'll see.   
  
  Q.  What about your third-round opponent?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  I played her in Paris.  Is that the same girl I played in Paris?  She played well, especially in the second set.  I think she was a little nervous in the first.   
 She has a great volley and a good slice.  Just another slice player I have to play.   
  
  Q.  Instant replay is new.  Do you think the umpire should suggest to players they should question calls, or is that up to the players?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  I don't think they should.  I mean, I thought that was a little weird.  I would have appreciated the suggestion maybe.  I don't know.  I don't know if that's in the handbook to suggest to challenge a call.   
  
  Q.  Players often go into tournaments overlooked.  Is there any player in this tournament you feel has been overlooked?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  I don't know.  I haven't been seeing anything or written anything.   
  
  Q.  Let me suggest one:  defending champion Mauresmo.   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  Well, yeah.  Maybe she's definitely been overlooked this year.  I think maybe that happened last year.  Look what happened, she won the tournament.   
 I mean, if she was on my side of the draw, I definitely would be looking more into it.  Right now I'm just focused on Seguera.   
  
  Q.  How would you describe your sister as a doubles player?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  Oh, she's the best.  All she does is serve, and I just stand there.  Sometimes I don't even move, she plays all the points.  My favorite word is "yours."  Her volleys are way better than me.  Mine are good, but hers are on a different level.   
  
  Q.  How would you describe yourself as a doubles player?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  I'm aggressive and I love to hit angles and lobs.  I don't know.  It's weird.  I hit lots of soft balls in doubles.   
  
  Q.  What do you enjoy most about playing doubles and what does it do for your singles game?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  It definitely helps our return and serves, and volleys obviously.  What I enjoy most about playing doubles is just being out there with V because we just laugh and talk, just gossip the whole time really.   
  
  Q.  You were wearing at the start of the match an impressive pair of earrings, which you have on now.   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  One fell out.   
  
  Q.  You took them out, didn't you?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  One fell out.  They didn't fall out in practice.  I guess they got jumpy and nervous.  One jumped off.  I just took the other one off.   
  
  Q.  You handed them to the ball girl.  Did you get them back?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  I got them back.  She was really sweet.   
  
  Q.  Have you ever met or encountered Barry Bonds in your travels?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yes.   
  
  Q.  He's about to set a huge record.  What are your thoughts about his record?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  I think it's amazing.  Is he going to hit more home runs than Hank Aaron?  Records are meant to be broken.   
  
  Q.  On Saturday you mentioned when you're playing well, nobody should beat you.  You think you ought to be the favorite.   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  I don't think I said I ought to be the favorite.   
  
  Q.  Not favorite, but you think no one can beat you.   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  I said when I'm playing well, it's hard for anyone to beat me.  I think it's just a fact.   
  
  Q.  After two matches, are you playing well?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  I'm playing okay.  I actually don't think I'm playing that great, no.   
  
  Q.  You gave yourself a 2 out of 10 the other day.  What would you give yourself today?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  I think out of fighting, you add all that stuff together, I give myself like a 6.  I played a little better today.   
  
  Q.  What do you think about tennis players being on dating shows like Mark Philippoussis?  Did you see the show?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  No, I didn't.  But I did TiVo it.  I can't wait to go home and watch it.  Can you find love on a reality show?  I don't know.   
  
  Q.  Would you be tempted?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  I don't think I'd be able to find love on a reality show personally 'cause I think I have to get to know someone for years.  He's a little older, so he might have more of an idea of what he's looking for.   
  
  Q.  You're probably aware of the Russians.  Do you have any awareness of the former Soviet Republic, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, players coming from these countries?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah.  Like yesterday I saw this guy, LAT, I assume it was Latvia.  I assume it's one of the Russian countries.  I don't even know how I heard of Latvia.  All these countries are just producing players like a factory.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT