NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 29, 2005
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Serena, please. 


Q.  Serena, Venus really brought some fire to the court today.  She really wanted this one.  Did you feel that?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah, I definitely felt that. 

Q.  So how did you try to respond to her eagerness? 

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Well, there was nothing I could do in the first set.  But I had plenty of chances in the second.  We should still be out there. 

Q.  Great match?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah, it was a fun match.  It was exciting. 

Q.  Good to watch. 

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Thanks. 

Q.  You take a loss against your sister different than against another player?  Obviously, you want to win every game, like every competitive player, but if you lose, like, today is it, like, different if you would have lost against another top-ranked world player?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  I think a loss is a loss.  I mean, for me, it's no different.  I do consider Venus a top player, so no. 

Q.  Of course now you're not going to play Maria Sharapova.  How do you see Venus performing against her? 

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Uhm, I think that Maria should be ready to play, for sure. 

Q.  You said that you could have done a lot more.  What in particular?  What areas?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yes.  I just think I made some errors at the wrong time.  I had chances in the second to go up like 3-1.  If I would have won -- it's some just points here and there.  I mean, I could have had the second, and who knows what would have happened in the third; I can't tell you that.  But I had my opportunities.  I didn't take them today.  It's been a while since I had opportunities and didn't take them. 

Q.  What is the worst part of playing your sister when you're actually out there playing? 

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Uhm, I don't know.  The only bad part was that we met in the quarterfinals.  Other than that, it's okay.  It would have been better if it was the finals or at least the semis. 

Q.  You're obviously aware when you're on court, the standard of the match.  Sometimes it's been difficult playing Venus.  Tonight the standard seemed to be that much better maybe than the Australian Open. 

SERENA WILLIAMS:  I think we've had great matches in the past.  I think just maybe you guys were so negative about it because we were winning all the time.  I think Australia was -- I barely won, it was an incredible match.  I think Wimbledon, the last time we played each other, even though she was injured, the first two sets were incredible.  I think I lost the first set.  She was just really playing out of her mind.  There was nothing I could do.  I think we played some good matches at the US Open.  For me, I've always had a tough time, tough time getting matches against Venus.  Tonight, again was another display of sheer athleticism, of sheer strength, of power, of finesse and just a whole, complete game. 

Q.  What tournaments will you play in Europe?  Of course French Open, but beside French Open.  Will you go to Berlin? 

SERENA WILLIAMS:  I'm scheduled to play a few different tournaments.  I don't know.  I was scheduled to go to Berlin, but I have a stalker in Germany.  I don't know if he's still around.  I forgot about that. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT