TELECOM ITALIA MASTERS
May 15, 2003
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Serena, please. 


Q.  Do you feel like you're finding your game out there, Serena? 

SERENA WILLIAMS:  I'm feeling a little better about my game.  Today I think I was able to do some things a little bit better - not what I would like  - than what I did in the first match.  Although, I think I did have a bit of a slow start in the beginning.  But she played really well in the beginning, though, so I don't really blame it on the slow start. 

Q.  How do you see tomorrow's match? 

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah, well, tomorrow I'm playing -- I think I'm going to have to make sure I get a lot of balls over the net, keep a lot of balls in play.  Martinez does really well here.  I think she may have won four times.  I don't know, she brings out her best game here, it seems, in Rome.   So I'm going to definitely be ready.  I think she has a lot of confidence, so I need to go in there with a lot of confidence as well. 

Q.  How did you take advantage of your day off yesterday afternoon?  What did you do? 

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Well, I went to a few different shops.  I wasn't able to make it to many because I think I stayed in the shops for too long, so it was unfortunate.   But it's okay because, I mean, the dollar is down to the Euro, so it gives me a really good excuse now to shop in New York. 

Q.  Is it true that you design some clothes?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yes, I am.  I'm getting started with my own line of fashion design, and it's going really well.  Actually, I'm wearing a new, exciting design of mine to  -- I'm not really into sportswear yet, I'm more or less doing things off the court like things you'd find -- just you would wear on the streets, you would wear every day, not necessarily warm-ups and sportswear.  Because my love is couture and pret-a-porter, and things of that nature, evening gowns.  So I love to do these things.  Yes, it is true and I'm really excited about it. 

Q.  (Inaudible) Who is the stylist you like more?  What did you talk about?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Well, I was able to meet her daughter.  She was really, really sweet and very nice.  She had a lot of interesting designs.  It's good to see  -- Laura Biagiotti I'm talking about.  It's good to see different designers and different lines.  Some shops, I went in to just to get the booklet  - what is it  - just to get the catalog to see what they're making for the season.  That way, it can inspire me in some of my designs.  I was able to get her catalog as well.  It was fun and different and, I don't know.  I never have a favorite designer because it's so many out there that I really enjoy. 

Q.  Is there anything in your game you're working on right now?  Looked like you were trying to come to the net a bit there in the first set.

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah, throughout the match.  It's just something I've been working on for a number of years.  So, yeah, it comes in every now and then but not too often. 

Q.  The clothes you design, is it just you, or are you helped by your family, your sister, your mother? 

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Well, Venus is into more interior designing, but she also went to school for fashion as well.  I think eventually she would want to join my efforts into doing more of a fashion line, fashion design, and maybe we'll just build a big fashion house with me doing the fashion line and she does the interior design.  My mom, I don't know, she always offers really good ideas and she always wears fun clothes.  I often, believe it or not, get some different ideas of materials to use.  But I really enjoy it.  I really enjoy making the clothes and putting them on.  It doesn't always work out; it doesn't always look good.  But you have to take a step back in order to go forward sometimes. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT