WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2003
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Conceding only four games exceed even your expectations?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  I never really exceed my expectations.  I think I was just playing pretty good.  No, I wasn't even thinking about that.  I  was just out there focusing. 
 
Q.  Were you happy with the way you played today?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  Some things I still want to work on, moving forward, just like to ameliorate a few more things in my game while in the tournament still this week. 
 
Q.  Do you kind of expect to do that as quickly as Wimbledon progresses on grass, adapt your game each round?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  I definitely do adapt my game, especially on grass, as each round progresses.  So I do expect this, yes. 
 
Q.  How does the experience of going all the way last year affect both your mind and your play this year, especially in week two?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  Well, it doesn't.  It really doesn't.  I'm just here enjoying myself.  You know, I had to relax.  Now I'm having more fun while I'm enjoying myself.  So it's definitely better. 
 
Q.  But does having done what you did last year help you relax this year because of any increased confidence?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  It doesn't really affect me either way.  It doesn't help me relax, it doesn't help me to be tense.  It just doesn't have any effect on me at all.  
 
Q.  Can you explain how you do relax or how you switch off?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  Well, I like to read a lot and draw a lot.  Just recently gotten into playing the GameBoys. 
 
Q.  As someone who is in acting, do you have any thoughts on Katharine Hepburn's passing?  Had you watched any of the movies on the old movie channels? 
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  Did she just pass?  
 
Q.  Last night. 
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  Every year at Wimbledon someone dies, I'm telling you.  It was Jack Lemmon one year, Walter Matthew (sic).  Of course, I love Katharine Hepburn.  She's one of the greatest actors to me.  I, of course, love Marilyn Monroe.  I did not know.  I had no idea.  I haven't been reading the papers. 
 
Q.  Your No.  1 position is at stake here at Wimbledon.  How aware are you?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  I'm aware. 
 
Q.  Does it influence your game, the way you a approach this tournament?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  Of course, it does.  Obviously, I want to be able to keep winning.  You know, this is just one week.  I have a few areas where I can gain points in the summer.  I'll be okay. 
 
Q.  Lindsay was just in here saying she wanted to play Fed Cup in Washington next week, that she was actually pretty disappointed that Billie Jean wouldn't let her because her mother is having surgery and she couldn't come in till Tuesday.  She said that you had a similar situation.  What was your situation with that?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah, I had a commitment early in the week that I committed myself a long time ago, way before it was even scheduled in DC.  But, you know, I tried to change it.  I can't change the dates.  I kind of committed.  It's hard to get jobs in the acting field.  I kind of have to go do it.  It's only for a day.  I'd be able to make it later on in the week.  It's tough.  
 
Q.  Do you think maybe this was a little bit too much of an iron-fist ruling here?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  I think maybe in my situation, I could understand Billie.  I don't know the whole situation with Lindsay and her mom.  If she can get there on Tuesday, I'm sure that's fine.  But I don't know the whole situation.  
 
Q.  When is your acting gig? 
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  It's Monday. 
 
Q.  In terms of acting, Hepburn, were there any movies, African Queen, Philadelphia Story, any one that you particularly liked that Hepburn did?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  I can't think of anything.  I'll have to ask my mom.  What else was she in?  
 
Q.  The one with John Wayne.  On Golden Pond. 
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  I know the names.  
 
Q.  There's lots of them. 
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  I don't know which one of hers is my favorite. 
 
Q.  You liked her character as an actress?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  I just don't remember exactly what movie she played in.  I remember watching some.  I watch nothing but old movies because I get influenced by them.  I can't quite remember offhand. 
 
Q.  You just liked her skills?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  I liked her name.  I know I was watching something before, I just don't remember what it was.  Obviously it was a long time ago.  I can't remember which movie it was. 
 
Q.  What is your favorite Marilyn Monroe movie? 
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  You know, it wasn't the Seven-Year Itch.  I lot of people liked that movie.  I wasn't really influenced by.  I loved her in How to Marry a Millionaire. 
 
Q.  Do you think the Fed Cup benefits enough from Billie Jean and all that she knows (inaudible) the rules?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  I think Billie Jean King is a great coach for Fed Cup.  I think she does really well.  I've learned a lot from Billie Jean King.  I really, really enjoy playing Fed Cup.  I really  -- I mean, I wanted to play, too, but I couldn't.  I really, really enjoy it.  Each time I come out a better player.  I really enjoy the experience of working with her and Zina Garrison. 
 
Q.  So you think the rules are worth it?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  It's not really that strict to me.  I mean, it's just like a team atmosphere.  We as tennis players, our sport is very individual, a very individual sport.  It's kind of hard sometimes to get the team camaraderie together.  I don't think the rules are too strict.  
 
Q.  This morning you and your sister and Capriati beat the three Russian girls pretty handily.  Talk about that. 
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  Well, you know, we Americans are doing pretty good now.  We're just trying.  
 
Q.  Would you consider playing more tournaments in the fall if you were battling with Kim, for instance, for first place in the WTA ranking?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  Sure. 
 
Q.  Your sister said she wouldn't. 
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  It just depends.  I always have the feeling you just play whatever.  You win those, you don't have to play that many.  
 
Q.  Capriati has been kind of lying low, not getting much attention.  Are you concerned about how she'll play facing her next round?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  You know, I was watching her play I think her first and second round match.  She was playing really well.  My dad and I were talking about how well she's doing, how I definitely expected to eventually meet up with her in the tournament.  I definitely have not been overlooking Jennifer, because she's been playing really well here. 
 
Q.  What specifically has impressed you about her game?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  You know, her return is really doing well.  She's staying really low on this grass.  That's really important when you're out there, is to be low.  It's kind of hard to stay low all the time.  She's doing everything really well. 
 
Q.  What do you remember about the time you played her before, 2001 here? 
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  She played really well.  I think she was just on a roll.  I think she won the Australian Open and French Open.  I guess she was trying to win Wimbledon, too. 
 
Q.  Your father was quoted as saying that he would take you maybe to the Wimbledon museum.  Did it happen?  In what way is the history an inspiration for you? 
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  It's always fun.  I went there last year.  I didn't get a chance to finish seeing everything.  It's always fun seeing the history of your sport, seeing all the stuff.  It's just a fun thing to go to.  It will be cool if we go later. 
 
Q.  When you hear those announcements about the rain delays, how big of a deal is it that you were on the first match, got it over, especially because you have to play tomorrow? 
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah, it's definitely a big deal.  I have to play tomorrow and I have doubles match today.  I definitely wanted to get on and get it over with because you don't want to be out there all day waiting to play your singles.  
 
Q.  You talked about your physique the other day, then Martina Navratilova went through what she felt were the best strokes and attributes in all of tennis, like Sampras' serve, Graf's forehand.  She said you had the best legs in tennis.  Do you think that's an asset for you?  Do you think that really helps you?  Do you agree with that?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  You know, I never really thought about it.  Best legs in tennis?  I actually thought Steffi had very good legs for tennis.  They were very lean and they were very in shape.  I never really thought about that.  
 
Q.  Given your Grand Slam record in doubles with your sister, what did you make of your seeding of No.  3 in this year's tournament?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  Oh, I didn't really think  -- Venus doesn't have a ranking.  We're excited to be seeded at all.  I mean, to us it really doesn't matter if we're seeded, if we're not seeded, we're just going to play.  We don't care about that.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT