NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 25, 2002
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 


Q.  That was nice of you to extend the match so Venus could come and watch. Got a little tricky?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Couldn't find my rhythm the whole match. 

Q.  As opposed to Venus who said she was just in the zone.

SERENA WILLIAMS:  What was her score? 

Q.  Two and 0. 

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Usually, it's opposite.  Usually, I win quick. 

Q.  In a way, once you survive a match like that when you are not in your rhythm and still win, does it almost work to your advantage like, "Okay, I did it on a day when I didn't have everything going for me"?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah, it definitely does work to your advantage.  If you realize you can win under those circumstances, you're not playing your greatest, you're not feeling your best or whatever, it's a big plus.  It's a really big plus.

Q.  Do you feel like you're in the right direction though, as far as the tournament?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah, sure.  Tomorrow's another day.  Whatever I did today, whether it's good or bad, it's not going to carry on till tomorrow.

Q.  And tomorrow  - not tomorrow, the next day  - Martina Hingis is there.  You guys are 6-6.  You won the last two, I believe.  Tell me what you feel you have to do to continue that winning streak.

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Well, I just got to keep my errors low, don't get overconfident, just take my chances and just play it as another match.  I won the last two, but she's won six also.  So I think we're 6-all.  I'll just take it as it goes and see what happens. 

Q.  She's made like 19 errors in three matches.  So obviously, it's going to be  --?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  I made 19 errors in one set (laughing). 

Q.  Obviously, there may be some long rallies.

SERENA WILLIAMS:  I love rallying.  I just  -- I don't mind hitting out there all day.  So it's...

Q.  Really?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  No, not at all.  Used to be a time I didn't.  But now, you got to do what you have to do.  And so...  Obviously, I don't know  -- I don't know.  Just it's really not bad.  But when you're playing different players also, they might go up and they might go down.  It just depends.

Q.  Are you aware that David Rineberg (ph) just published a book on you guys last month?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah, I heard about that. 

Q.  How did you hear?  I guess he's doing a book signing in West Palm Beach today. 

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Really?  I think maybe my trainer told me about it.  I don't...

Q.  Did he hit with you guys for a number of years?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah, he used to hit with us a long time ago.

Q.  In Delray Beach? 

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah. 

Q.  How do you feel about that, just in general someone from your past now coming out and writing? 

SERENA WILLIAMS:  I don't know how I feel about that.  If it's positive, then I don't know.  Dave's a great guy.  We really liked him.  He was nice.  He was really nice.  As long as it's positive, we're positive people.  We always think, you know, the best. 

Q.  Does it make you want to pen your own memoirs to just get it straight from the source, or...? 

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Nah.  Nah. 

Q.  Venus said you guys are too young.

SERENA WILLIAMS:  We're too young.  We are.  I'm only 20.  I seem like an old lady, though, in a young girl's body sometimes.  But...  Sometimes I wonder about that.  "How old am I really?" (Laughing). 

Q.  Why is that?  Why do you feel old?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  I watch everything  -- like someone said, "Who's Fred Mertz?"  I'm like, "That guy played on 'I Love Lucy.'" Vivian Vance, yeah, she played on "I Love Lucy," too.   You ask me anything about the past, I really know those answers.  I think it was People Magazine, I was reading quotes, "Who is Yoko Ono," and the other girl, Lizzy McCartney (sic) or something like that. 

Q.  Linda?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Linda.   I'm like, "Yoko Ono was John Lennon's wife," and, obviously, Linda McCartney.  But the girl didn't know who she was.  I'm like, "What is it?  We're the same age.  Maybe it's me (laughing)."  I just know too many of these old facts.

Q.  You just know pop culture. 

SERENA WILLIAMS:  I mean, it's crazy.  It's really crazy.

Q.  You probably read more.

SERENA WILLIAMS:  I do.  I do.  That's what it is, I love to read.  So you get lots of knowledge by reading.

Q.  And you watch a lot of Nickelodeon.

SERENA WILLIAMS:  I do.  I love "Lucy."  I watch all those shows. 

Q.  Do you think you can liken you and Venus to Ethel and Lucy in terms of you escapades?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Oh, no.  They were crazy.  Not at all.  Not at all, no. 

Q.  You may be on a collision course with someone in your family, but obviously one match at a time.  Martina's someone you can't overlook.  Are you looking forward to that if it does happen? 

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah.  Of course.  Hey, I'm looking forward to any match.  But I have to play this one first.  I'm sure Martina's going to be ready because she lost the last two times, so she's probably really pumped up. 

Q.  You say you love to read.  Would you read a book about yourself?  Would you read David's book? 

SERENA WILLIAMS:  No.  I don't read about myself because it could get, you know, it could get a little negative.  I never read articles about myself.  I just look at pictures so I can critique them.

Q.  How are your classes? 

SERENA WILLIAMS:  I only go in the fall, so I can only go in the fall.  I used to take six classes, now I'm taking a smaller amount, like one or two.  It's really hard to do it and be on the Tour at the same time. 

Q.  What are the subjects you're studying? 

SERENA WILLIAMS:  I'm studying in fashion.  I've been thinking about getting a business degree from Harvard or something while I can.  Mostly I'm a great business person.  I mean, I'm a good negotiator, too. 

Q.  Maybe James Blake could help you with Harvard?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah, he did go to Harvard.  No, I'm not that serious.  I might need to go to a smaller school, like maybe, you know, just something a little smaller. 

Q.  Pete Sampras was in here earlier talking about how for him all those years that he had to grind to get to No. 1, that he sacrificed a lot because it was tennis, tennis, tennis, tennis.  He doesn't know how happy he really was.  I was just wondering how you feel?  Do you have like this sense of accomplishment, knowing that you haven't had to live, eat and breathe tennis to get to where you've gotten?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah, I think that's really important.  That's what my dad really wanted us to do, just not focus on tennis 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.  We went to school, we got our high school diplomas, we enrolled in college.  We did fun things that a kid is supposed to do.  But at the same time, we developed our game.  We're still young, and we still have a chance.  So I don't know about how other people feel about it, but I just think our road was a good way.  Not everyone can do that.  There's different strokes for different folks. 

Q.  Martina said her tennis is better than last year.  What do you think about that? 

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Her tennis is better than last year? 

Q.  Yeah. 

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah, she's definitely improved her game, especially at the Australian Open.  She almost won.  She was just a point away.  It's definitely improving.  She's definitely doing good. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT