U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2018
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WILLIAMS/C. Witthoeft   
6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about another match against Venus earlier in the tournament.  Exciting?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I wouldn't say it's exciting.  But it's definitely going to be a really tough match for me.  Once again, it's early in the tournament.  You know, it is what it is.   
 Q.  You've talked a lot over the years about how tough these matches are.  If you could have your accomplishments and she could have hers, you never played each other, would you have taken that deal?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: For sure, absolutely.  But that doesn't happen.  Unfortunately and fortunately we have to play each other.  We make each other better.  We bring out the best when we play each other.  It's what we do, so...   
I think we're used to it now.   
 Q.  What is the toughest part emotionally when you play Venus?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I never root against her, no matter what.  So I think that's the toughest part for me.  When you always want someone to win, to have to beat them.  I know the same thing is for her.  When she beats me, she always roots for me as well.   
I think that's just the hardest part.   
 Q.  Flipside of that, what's the best part about playing Venus on tour, in a Grand Slam?  Is it as remarkable to you as it is to others, that it's been 20 years since that first time, and here you are still playing each other?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I think that part is really remarkable.  I never would have thought that we would still be playing professional.   
I don't remember the first part of your question.   
 Q.  The best part.  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I mean, like I said, the best part is we bring out the best in each other.  I know when I play her, I have to play some of my best tennis.  She does, too.  It propels us to continue to play that for the tournament.  It sets a tone for us.   
I feel like throughout our career, we have pushed each other to be the best that we can be, and be Venus and Serena Williams.   
 Q.  What were you pleased with tonight on the court?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I think Patrick told me I served really well today.  I agree.  Even though I was broken, I feel like I was able to serve pretty well today.  So that was pretty good.   
 Q.  What do you remember about the first time you played Venus here back in 2001 in the finals?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Was that the first time I played her here?   
 Q.  I think it was.  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Clearly I don't remember much.  She won.  She won that one, so...   
 Q.  Venus has so much in her game.  What does she bring out of you?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, she also knows my game really well.  We grew up together obviously.  It's really interesting to play someone that knows.  You have to almost become a different player, which is another challenge, as well.  I think that's also something that helps her.   
 Q.  You built such a legacy.  Your fans almost expect perfection out of you.  How do you approach that coming back from a layoff?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I try to just realize that I'm human, whether people do or not.  The expectations are great.  But I like having that expectation on my shoulders because it takes me out of mediocracy [sic].  I wouldn't have it any other way.   
I like the expectation.  I always look at what it would be like if I didn't have it.  I wouldn't be Serena Williams.   
 Q.  In your fashion you've been coming back to themes of royalty a lot.  What is it in particular that you find appealing about that?  What is it you want to communicate by returning to these themes around royalty and Queen Serena?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I just feel like it's just the timing.  A lot of the ads are kind of based on that, to be honest.  I'm clearly not royalty.  Maybe in a different world, in a different - what's the word I'm looking for?  Like on a different, when you travel, you're in a whole different -- I'm sorry, I have severe mom brain.   
Now I'm going to wake up in the middle of the night.  Yeah, maybe in a different life I was.  I think everyone deserves to think the best of themselves and put the best of themselves on the highest platform.  I feel like royalty is some of that highest platform that is still reasonable.  It's not getting into a sacrilege place.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT