TMS - INDIAN WELLS, WOMEN
March 12, 2001
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Serena.  
 
 
Q.  So you got a little bit of revenge for Venus?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  I guess so.  I guess so.  Why not?  Just go in there.  You don't think about revenge too much; you just think about playing good.  She's a good player. 
 
Q.  She's not easy to play?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  Not necessarily.  She's a fighter.  I played her before.  She really tries very hard.  She's a good player.  She was No.  4 in the world at one time, so.  
 
Q.  Did it feel like closer than a 6-3, 6-2 match, closer than the score indicated? 
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah, I guess so.  I guess you could say it maybe was a little closer.  In the end, I guess it's all important who wins the most important points. 
 
Q.  Can you talk about your next match, taking on Lindsay in the quarters?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah.  I'm looking forward to playing Lindsay.  It should be a good match for the fans and for me - and for her, so. 
 
Q.  Do you look forward to playing a match like that so early, in the quarters rather than the semis or the finals?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  Sure.  I really don't care anymore.  I just am going out.  It's actually pretty good for me.  Could help my ranking out.  So, yeah, why not?  
 
Q.  You were 5-1 against her going into the US Open quarters last year.  What do you think happened there?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  Well, she played immaculate I think that day pretty much.  I now know what to expect.  I'm 5-2 against her. 
 
Q.  Have you seen her play at all this week?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah, of course.  You always watch people that you assume you're going to play in later rounds.  I've been watching her, Venus and Martina.  
 
Q.  How do you think she's playing compared, say, to the US Open last year?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  I saw her play matches back in Scottsdale.  She's playing really well.  She's improving her game.  That's good because a lot of Americans are doing great now.  We're all on the same team. 
 
Q.  Do you remember at The Open she kind of changed strategy on you, played you more down the middle instead of going into the long rallies because she didn't want you to use the speed against her.  Is that a strategy that will work against you again or are you going to be better prepared?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  I'm definitely going to be better prepared.  You learn the first time when going into it again.  I always learn from my mistakes - not only that , but I don't think I played up to my potential last time.  We'll see.  It should be a good match.   
 
Q.  Why do you think you played so well against Lindsay?  You were 5-1 before the US Open.  Do you think you had her number?  Do you still think you have her number?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah, I like playing Lindsay a lot, I really do.  I guess she's just one of those players that you like to play. 
 
Q.  What is it about her game that maybe works in your favor?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  I don't know.  I like the way she hits.  I like the  -- I just like playing her, you know.  I don't know.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT