adidas International
January 10, 2001
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question for Serena. 


Q.  Martina was just saying that she had quite a hard time coming back to play singles this morning after her match last night.  You didn't seem to suffer from any problems yourself. 

SERENA WILLIAMS: I didn't have any problems myself.  I was ready, you know.  I'm like the Energizer battery:  I keep going and going and going and going. 


Q.  Are you satisfied with the way it's all going?

SERENA WILLIAMS: I played a little better today, so I think each match I'm getting better and better for what I've been practicing towards.  So I'm getting a little better each day. 


Q.  Venus said last night that she didn't feel like she needed matches to prepare for the Australian Open.  Do you feel like  -- did you enter the tournament because you felt like you needed some matches to bring you up to speed?

SERENA WILLIAMS: I entered the tournament -- well, yeah, sure.  I entered the tournament because I have to play so many tournaments a year, and this was very convenient.  I'm going to be over here in Australia anyway.  It's not necessarily that I need the matches.  I'm glad I got here and I'm playing, because if I was playing kind of this way, the way that I played my last first two matches, I don't want to play this way next week in the Open.  If you kind of understand what I'm saying.


Q.  So what do you want to improve between now and then?

SERENA WILLIAMS: I'm just looking forward to getting better returns, return a little better, run a little faster and just keeping my game throughout the whole match and not just, you know, the first set and the first half of the second. 


Q.  Any thoughts about the next one coming up so close to the Open, that sort of match?

SERENA WILLIAMS: Oh, this is great warm-up for me and for her both.  Obviously, we're both great players and we're both going to do well in the next  -- in all our events we always do well.  We're going to probably do well next week.  This is a great warm-up for us in case we play next week again.  So it should be a good match.


Q.  Does this sort of match have a special appeal for you bearing in mind its history?

SERENA WILLIAMS: Its history?


Q.  Well, you played one great match with her, didn't you, two years ago?

SERENA WILLIAMS: I played one great match with her two years ago?


Q.  Didn't you?  I thought you played her in the US Open.

SERENA WILLIAMS: Oh, yeah.  I played her several times. 


Q.  I meant that was the one that I think most people remember more than any other, because that was a great trot for you, wasn't it?

SERENA WILLIAMS: I guess so.  Sure, why not?


Q.  It doesn't have a special appeal because of who she is and who you are and the fact that you're playing  --?

SERENA WILLIAMS: I think it has more of an appeal to the crowd.  I think for both Martina and I, we're taking it as a serious match because obviously we're great competitors and we're both top players and we both have so much to offer to each other, so we're probably going to bring our best out so we can see what we need to improve on for next week. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT