AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2001
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Serena.  
 
 
Q.  Very convincing win out there today.  You must be pretty pleased with that performance. 
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah, I played a little bit better today.  I think my serve was going pretty well.  I didn't lose serve today.  I think my groundstrokes could have been a bit better. 
 
Q.  You are up against Martina Hingis next.  What will you do against her different in the quarterfinals that you didn't do last week in Sydney?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  Obviously right now I'm playing a little better, I'm feeling a lot better.  I'll just take it one point at a time, see how it goes.  
 
Q.  How will you prepare for that match?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  I've prepared for it already.  If I haven't prepared for it, then there's nothing I can do.  My preparation has been done before I got off the airplane into Australia.  
 
Q.  That means a quiet night tonight, for example?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah, obviously - obviously.  
 
Q.  How generally do you feel the Melbourne conditions suit you? 
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  Well, they suit me well.  I really excel when I play in the heat, because I used to live in California, now I've been living in Florida.  Summers in Florida are really brutal.  They're actually worse than they are here.  This is a little easier for me.  
 
Q.  How do you approach your year coming up?  Do you sit down and make specific goals about titles or rankings, or do you just want to improve certain strokes in your game? 
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  I usually try to improve overall my whole game as a whole.  If I can just do everything ten percent better than what I did last year is what my dad and mom and me work on.  So that's what I try to do.  Just try to have better strategies as a whole. 
 
Q.  Do you think you would be a much better player if you played more?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  No, I mean, I play enough, I win enough.  Obviously, I wish I won more.  A lot of people would pretty much kill to do what I've done.  
 
Q.  Martina has been making an effort to come to the net more, seemingly want to match the power that you and Venus have.  What do you think about that?  Do you take that as a compliment that she seems to be doing something to try and match you?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  Everybody is trying to improve their game, honestly.  This tournament is far from over.  I've even seen Monica coming to the net more.  Yesterday I was really impressed with what she was doing.  Honestly, who's not trying to improve and get more power?  Everybody is.  
 
Q.  Looking forward to playing Martina Hingis?
 
SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah, sure.  
 

FastScripts by ASAP Sports…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT