US OPEN
September 6, 2000
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Questions for Serena.  
 
Q. What was the difference between the last time you guys played in LA and this time?
 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: The difference is I think Lindsay just played a little better and I
wasn't on my best game today. You can't afford to be on your best game (sic) in the
quarterfinals of a Grand Slam. 
 
Q. Why weren't you?
 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, I mean, I don't know. I just -- it's been a little tough for me.
I didn't get any practice before The Open because of the tournament in Canada. I don't
know. I thought I was practicing pretty well for the past two days, but I just wasn't on
my best game today. 
 
Q. Is it a greater letdown because you had the possibility to face Venus in the final? 
 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: No. I just was taking it one match at a time, and I was just trying to
do the best that I could. I was thinking, you know,"Three to go, two to go,
hopefully." But unfortunately, it wasn't. 
 
Q. It was your first time coming into a Grand Slam as defending champion. Now that that
experience has kind of happened, how do you feel about it? How difficult was it to face
that?
 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: It wasn't difficult for me at all. I really don't put too much
pressure on myself, just go out and do the best that I can.  
 
Q. Did you lose your poise?
 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't -- no, I wouldn't say I lost my poise. No, not at all. 
 
Q. What did you think was the critical point in the match, critical game?
 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I think every game and every point is critical. I personally try to
win every point and do the best that I can do for everything. So for me everything was
just a (top?). 
 
Q. Did you feel like your backhand let you down at all tonight, just wasn't smooth
tonight?
 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I mean, to be honest, I didn't really hit my backhand or my forehand
very well and I wasn't serving well. It was like I was just out there with the motions. My
serve wasn't going the way it was in the round earlier, maybe the other round also.  
 
Q. Is this as well as she's ever played against you?
 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I guess. Yeah, you can definitely say this is the best she's
ever played against me. You know, she should take that attitude toward everyone. 
 
Q. You had a couple of breakpoints in her first service game. Were you feeling pretty
confident at that point in the match?
 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I guess. I don't know. When I'm out there, I just keep feeling
confident. I don't ever feel less confident. I always feel like I can make my shots, I can
do this, I can do that. I don't ever feel low. 
 
Q. Lindsay said on TV that she and Martina had a little discussion that they didn't
want to see that all-Williams final that everybody was expecting. Did you find that
surprising they would do that?
 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Not at all. That's the way a lot of people would want it. I'm sure a
lot of people never want to see an all-Williams final. It's going to happen in the future
inevitably. Nobody's going to be able to stop it. Unfortunately, I didn't pull my end up
this year. I'm sure in the next Grand Slam, the Australian Open, Wimbledon or the French,
the US Open, I'm going to do my utmost to make sure it happens, make sure it happens
because that's just what I would like. Obviously, no one would want to see an all-Williams
final because everyone doesn't really like us. That's just the way it is. 
 
Q. What do you respect most about Lindsay's game?
 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Respect?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: She has a great all-around game, I guess.  
 
Q. What do you mean they don't like you? As tennis players or as people? 
 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I mean, not everyone can like you. Not everyone likes Michael Jordan.
Not everyone in the whole world -- it's just a part of life. I mean, not everyone can like
us.  
 
Q. How did you feel the crowd was toward you today?
 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't know. I guess they were -- I don't know. I don't think about
the crowd too much.  
 
Q. Did you think it was possible after you saved those five match points on your serve,
you might be getting some momentum, possibly come back into the match?
 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I always believe in a comeback. I never believe it's over until
I shake the opponent's hand. Even at that, I'm thinking, "Wow, how did I do
that?" I never really believe that I can lose. 
 
Q. Are you sorry for the racquet violation?
 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I didn't mean to do that. I just kind -- just kind of happened. I
totally didn't mean to crack it. 
 
Q. When you referred to people not liking you, do you think --?
 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I did not say people did not like me. That's like saying a million
people in the whole world. Not a million people are going to like me. I don't know what
part you guys don't understand. I'm sure everyone in the whole world doesn't like you
either, you know.  
 
Q. I'm sure, too. 
 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: So it's just -- you know what I mean. That's what I'm saying. 
 
Q. Could some opposing players not like the hype about the Williams sisters rather than
you folks as individuals? 
 
 SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't know.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT