WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 14, 2018
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. KVITOVA/S. Williams   
6-3, 2-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Very, very tight match tonight.  A lot of momentum swings.  From your perspective, what was the difference in the end?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I think she served a little bit better than I did.  I couldn't hold on to my serve in the end, and I think that made the biggest difference.   
 Q.  How do you evaluate your performance today?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I think it was a good match today.  We both played at a really high level.  Only one person could win.   
 Q.  What kind of takeaways -- both of you guys don't necessarily always play long points, even though you did rally.  Are you able to conclude, like, know more about your form in a match like this?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I feel like I did better in the longer points, but I feel like she kept it short more than me.   
I was looking forward to the longer points, which is not normal, but long points or short points, I like them, so, yeah, it's just getting used to, you know, the pace and everything again.   
 Q.  It's the 50th anniversary of the US Open this year.  What's your favorite thing or favorite memory of the US Open?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't know.  I definitely can't narrow it down.  It's so many, you know, so I don't know.   
 Q.  From 0 to Serena, where do you think you are now?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I'm still at the very beginning.  You know, this is a long comeback.  I just began.  I just started.   
Definitely at the very, very beginning.  I'm getting there, and I'm going to just continue to work hard, and hopefully I'll start winning more matches.   
 Q.  Obviously you have been playing tennis for a very long time.  You have endured a lot of things.  For you, personally, what does the word "endurance" mean to you?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I think it has a lot of different meanings.  Just staying steadfast and strong.   
 Q.  Now that you have a better sense of where you are in terms of form right now, what are some of the biggest things you feel you have to work on going forward and trying to get that elusive, or that 24th Grand Slam title at the US Open?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I think I just definitely want to get a more consistent serve, more than anything,  and return more consistently.  Basically my whole game needs to improve.   
 Q.  We are doing a story about the US Open.  Can you talk a little bit about playing at night under the lights in Arthur Ashe Stadium?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: A lot of people love it.  I love it.  It's an iconic time to play in New York, and I have had some great matches.  I have had some great losses there, but it's all a part of the US Open.   
 Q.  A year ago you and Petra were in completely different places, last year what she went through and also with you.  I'm just wondering what it means to play at such a high level, both of you, today against each other in a match like that?  
SERENA WILLIAMS: I think we're both, you know, doing good.  She's obviously doing a little bit better, but she's been back a little bit longer.   
We're both, you know, still here and still competing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT