US OPEN
September 4, 1999
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








WTA:  Questions for Serena. 


Q.  Did you expect it to be this tough?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah.  I've seen her play before at Wimbledon.  I know she played well.  She's young.  When you're young, you're really not feeling it.  Especially when you're playing a higher seed, you have nothing to lose.  I knew I was in for a good match.  I was very well prepared.

Q.  Down 5-3 in the third set, she was serving for the match.  What was going through your head?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  I was thinking, "This can't happen to me.  Why me?"  I was just really tired of having to go out all the time early.  I just wanted to take it one point at time.  That's when my determination really kicked in.  I really was determined at that point.

Q.  Did you ever think you were going to lose during the match?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  I never think  -- no matter if I'm down 6-0, 5-0, Love-40, I never think I'm going to lose until the point is over.  Then it's really like stunning for me, it's just really amazing for me, because it's weird that I actually lost.  I never think about that.

Q.  Did you expect her to get tight at that point or did you say to yourself, "I'm going to play aggressive"? 

SERENA WILLIAMS:  I just said to myself, "I'm going to play the way I've been taught to play."  I don't think she got tight at all.  I think I came up with several winners, I think four winners.  I came up with four big serves.

Q.  What was it about her game that kept you off balance in that first set?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  I was just really, throughout the whole match, making way too many errors, to be quite honest.  She was just making her shots.  She was hitting the lines all the time.  It's kind of difficult to play someone who every ball hits the line.  I mean, I could have definitely played a lot better just all around, especially serving.

Q.  What did it mean to you in your development and mentally to be able to come down from 3-5, win I think 12 straight points and be able to pull out a match like that? 

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah, that's really good for me because I've always been very determined.  I've always been able to come back.  That was okay.  It really means a lot because now that I'm able to do it in the larger tournaments, not just smaller tournaments.  I want to be able to do it in bigger tournaments also, so that was very important.

Q.  To survive this, do you think it's meant to be you're going to go far?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  I am just taking it one match at a time.  I'm not looking too far ahead in the draw.  I'm focusing on every match.  As you can see today, everybody is here to win.  So am I.  I'm just taking it one match at a time.

Q.  When you got your first serve in, you were pretty unstoppable.  What happened in that stretch when you didn't get many first serves?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  The whole match (laughter)?  I don't think I got any serves throughout the whole match.  I'm going to work on that.  Actually, I'm going to hit today.  Actually, it was ridiculous the way I was serving out there.  Finally, the last couple games I got four good serves in.  Other than that, I was only kidding myself.

Q.  How happy was your father?  He looked really excited on television. 

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah, I guess he was very excited.  I know I was.  I was pretty stoked.

Q.  Did he say anything to you after the match?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  No.  He was just like, "Good job."  I did good.

Q.  Any thoughts on your next opponent, Conchita?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  I'm ready to play her.  I played her before on the clay.  I haven't played her on the hard.  I know she rallies a lot and she runs super fast.  She can do everything:  she can hit lobs and slice and dropshots.  I have to make sure I'm ready.

Q.  Do you ever remember closing a match out with a run like that?  You won like 16 of the last 17 points. 

SERENA WILLIAMS:  No, definitely not.  That was definitely pretty magnificent the way I was able to be determined and come back and just really stay focused like that.  I think that was really great.  I don't recall having done that before, so that's good for me. 

Q.  How much did you know about her?  Had you ever seen her?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah, I saw her play at Wimbledon.  She played Steffi Graf.  I'm glad I saw that match.  I knew she was a tough player.  She's young and she's doing her best.  She's pretty big.  She's a big girl. 

Q.  What do you think of the atmosphere in Armstrong?  The crowd was not really always on your side. 

SERENA WILLIAMS:  I'm used to that everywhere I play, no matter where I go.  I think it was pretty good actually.  Usually, they're all against me, so.  This is pretty good.  This is better than usual.  I think the crowd were pretty much on my side.  If the crowd is against me, I'm used to it.  I was playing one time in Paris, in my first tournament.  The whole crowd, because I was playing Amelie Mauresmo in the final.  It was a French person, so the whole crowd, take my mom, my hitting partner, were against me.  When I was able to pull that through, I said, "Serena, you're able to pull out anything if you can do that." 

Q.  Do you think it might be a beginning of a love story between the US Open fans and you?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  I think so, definitely.  I like the US Open.  They're one of the few people that do support me at times.  Your greatest support is going to come from your own racquet.

Q.  How much of your success do you suppose relates to your mental toughness that you showed there today?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  I definitely think it relates a lot to my mental toughness because if you're not mentally there, it's really hard to come out and do anything.  You really have to be mentally focused.

Q.  Why do you think people don't support you at different places?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  I don't know.  I mean, usually when you're overseas, they support their own players.  It's not like America, like Steffi Graf can come over here and she has all the support.  She's a great player, though.  So I can understand that.  It's just like that.  I don't know.  It's okay. 

Q.  Where do you get the most support other than here?  Maybe Australia the first year?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah.  I really realized that Australians really support me.  I went there this year, and they were very supportive.  I saw lots of little girls with beads in their hair.  I was actually very surprised at all the support I received from Australia.  Besides New  York, then I would say the Australians. 

Q.  Do you remember ever coming back from losing the first set?  I know you've gone to some three-setters that you've won.  Usually you won the first set.  Do you remember any where you lost the first set?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yeah.  This is actually not my biggest comeback.  I actually have a bigger comeback.  This is the best comeback because it's actually in a Slam.  I lost first set 6-2  -- 6-1, down 5-2, 15-40.  I came back to win the match.  I mean, it wasn't a Slam.  It definitely wasn't as big. 

Q.  Against who?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  It was against Lindsay at Sydney.

Q.  That was this year?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  That was last year.  She won Sydney this year. 

Q.  Still upset about that?

SERENA WILLIAMS:  Yes.  I'm still sensitive about that.  Very sensitive subject. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT