US OPEN
August 31, 1998
Serena Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What exactly happened to your leg?

SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, what happened was I was in practice, actually the other day and
I kind of strained a hamstring muscle, so I am -- it was -- it served as a little
distraction to me in my match today.

Q. Is that the same one that was injured at Wimbledon?

SERENA WILLIAMS: No, this is hamstring. At Wimbledon I had a calf. So I don't have any
calf problems.

Q. How do you rate Nicole's play today?

SERENA WILLIAMS: I believe she came out with a plan to try to win, a lot of people
usually come out just to get a couple of games or see how well they can do. I believe that
she came out with a plan to do her best and try harder than she would probably actually
try and do under different circumstances I think that she played pretty well. I don't
think I played that well though.

Q. Because of the leg or what?

SERENA WILLIAMS: I think that and just my game is off today. Maybe next time -- I am
definitely going to have to play better whether I want to or not.

Q. What was your Open debut like, anything like you thought it would be?

SERENA WILLIAMS: I guess it was pretty exciting, particular for me because I definitely
wanted to win. I didn't want to go out in the first round. I kept saying to myself:
Serena, you can't be a first-round casualty. It just would have been horrible. I didn't
want that to happen. So I had to keep concentrating: Okay, come on, Serena, come on.

Q. What did you learn last year watching your sister go through what she did? Does that
put any added pressure on you thinking, I can't go out in the first round or --

SERENA WILLIAMS: I never thought about that this whole match at all. I am glad I
didn't. I probably would have put even more pressure on myself. I never thought about
that. So it never came to my mind.

Q. Did it help being in the No. 2 stadium or was it a distraction for you? 

SERENA WILLIAMS: I think it helped a lot. I think the stadium was pretty much full at
the end, actually it was very full at the end so I think that helped. I like playing in
big stadiums.

Q. Venus took three sets to win her debut match last year. Did she give you any advice
for your opening match?

SERENA WILLIAMS: She said: Serena, why don't you go through three sets, you can make it
to the final. (Laughs)

Q. -- The first two match points that got away?

SERENA WILLIAMS: Yes, I had a volley and I thought I made it, but obviously I didn't. I
went for it too much because I wanted to end it and I didn't want to have any problems
closing out the match. But that happened and the second one, I guess it was just a case of
classic, I don't know, nerves, I guess, I don't know.

Q. When you saw you had pretty much half the court open on the volley, did you have
time to think about how much space you had?

SERENA WILLIAMS: No, I never thought about that. I just thought about making my shot. I
just didn't -- my techniques, they were not correct, and if you don't have the correct
techniques, it is going to breakdown and I didn't have the correct techniques and it broke
down.

Q. On Saturday Venus was in here. She said that she didn't even look at the draw except
to know that you were in opposite halves. Are you the same way, I see maybe Spirlea
looming ahead, have you looked at it at all?

SERENA WILLIAMS: I just know I played Nicole Pratt in the first round. I don't know who
I played in the second round I am not looking toward that. I am just looking at one match
at a time and usually in all the tournaments I look at the draw and obviously I haven't
won any, so it hasn't been working so let me try something different. (Laughs) So, I am
taking a different approach.

Q. Was it difficult with your sister playing, playing well last year, it must have been
exciting and all that, was it difficult to be patient and say: Gosh, I'd like to be out
there right now, let me try some of this?

SERENA WILLIAMS: Yes, last year it was but right now I am out there and I am having a
lot of wins myself. I just -- I guess last week I was No. 20 and I did not even know that
I thought I was 21. This week I am 19 and I didn't know that until today. So I really
don't look at those things -- I just think I am playing pretty -- okay, now and I just
want to keep going.

Q. What family members are here in New York this year?

SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, all my sisters are here except for the eldest, she is in
California. My dad is here - guys, if you want to say anything about that.

Q. What are your expectations here?

SERENA WILLIAMS: My goal here is just to do the best that I can do. I am not looking at
the draw, so, I had actually -- I was watching TV last night and they showed the draw, I
was like: Serena, I had to turn my head. I wanted to peak, but I did not peak, so I was
pretty good. Those are my goals, just to do the best that I can do and I know if I can do
the best I can do, I can go along ways.

Q. What do you think the chances are for the Williams sisters in the finals?

SERENA WILLIAMS: I think I have as good a chance as anyone else has here. Everyone,
when they enter the tournament, it is 1 out of 128. That is how it begins as it narrows
down each time, so, we will just have to see.

Q. Are you playing doubles this year?

SERENA WILLIAMS: No, I am not playing the doubles event. Although I had points to
defend, two points, so that is going to drop off. That is really disappointing because it
really is a lot of points to defend. (Laughs) Really wanted to defend those double points.

Q. No mixed?

SERENA WILLIAMS: I didn't say no mixed.

Q. I know you didn't say no mixed.

SERENA WILLIAMS: Actually I am entered into the mixed.

Q. Got a chance for a family Grand Slam?

SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I have to. My ranking is not that good. My partner is not that
good so I had to get a wildcard.

Q. Who is he?

SERENA WILLIAMS: Wimbledon.

Q. Same guy?

SERENA WILLIAMS: Yes, Wimbledon champs.

Q. How bad was the injury today? What did it prevent you from doing, and did you ever
think about not being able to --

SERENA WILLIAMS: Usually my matches I never hit more than three doublefaults and the
injury really, really hurt my serve a lot because I don't like doublefaulting. I never
have, and I probably never will. So it really served as a great impediment to my serve; I
wasn't able to move on with that basically. Other than that, maybe my -- obviously my
moving skills. I wasn't able to move as fast or as much, so --

Q. You said Nicole Pratt had a plan for you today when she came out. What did you think
that was? What was she trying to do?

SERENA WILLIAMS: I think her plan was to go out and try to beat me obviously because
she can say: I have beat Serena Williams or then her next round she probably wanted to do
well in this tournament also, but I think that sometimes a lot of players come out play
really hard against a lot of playing, really hard against the younger players because they
don't -- I don't know, younger players, yeah, so --

Q. Was she trying to do anything different with the spins or make you hit a lot of
balls or anything like that?

SERENA WILLIAMS: I really don't think so. No. I couldn't really say. You were there,
were you not?

Q. What kind of treatment will you have on your leg?

SERENA WILLIAMS: I am just going to get some treatment on my leg maybe soft tissue
work, maybe some ultrasound, I am not sure yet. Had to come talk to you guys.

Q. Your dad left second set?

SERENA WILLIAMS: Usually when I am in a match I really don't look over too much -- I
guess I did notice, but I didn't notice until in the third set. You really don't have time
to think about that when you are out on the court because you are completely focused on
different things, so I guess if I was playing, if I was in the crowd and I saw someone
playing the way I was, I would have left too. (Laughs)

Q. Did you talk to him after the match?

SERENA WILLIAMS: No. I am not sure -- I think he might have had a meeting to go to. I
am sure that wasn't the reason that he left, because I wasn't playing that well, but he
had a meeting or something.

Q. Would you have liked to have more match practice before this?

SERENA WILLIAMS: I only played one tournament after Wimbledon. I think I should have
played a couple more. I think -- I would have liked to have had a few more matches, so I
think that would have been good for me. It is too late now. 

Q. Why didn't you?

SERENA WILLIAMS: I don't know. I had some school -- I was entering one tournament, but
I had to go to summer school so I could try and finish and get my diploma. It was really
tough, so, I am still working on it.

Q. Do you have the diploma yet?

SERENA WILLIAMS: No, I had to take two final exams and couple of the tests and I will
be finish.

Q. In what?

SERENA WILLIAMS: High school.

Q. I mean, I knew you hadn't gone through college yet.

SERENA WILLIAMS: I took my final exams in physics and Algebra II. I am done with all
that.

Q. What do you have remaining?

SERENA WILLIAMS: On the physics I got 82, I was very proud of that. I have no comment
on the Algebra II.

Q. What do you have remaining?

SERENA WILLIAMS: I just have to take the easy ones like some science and economics.

Q. What science?

SERENA WILLIAMS: Environmental science.

Q. You will make it.

SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, definitely.

Q. Reading the Wall Street Journal there was an article about your dad. Do you think
the media has made too much of your family and your father? Do you think there is too much
focus on it? Does it bother you?

SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, my dad always said negative attention is better than no
attention, so, as long as the truth lives inside of us and we know what the truth is, that
stuff really doesn't bother you because you know what the truth is, it doesn't really
matter.

Q. It seemed as the stadium got more crowded, the crowd really got behind you. Talk
about the New York crowd.

SERENA WILLIAMS: Yes, I really liked it. It was great, especially when I came out to
try to break her for the match. They really started-- like I always saw on TV the crowd
goes wild, so it was pretty exciting to have it happen to me for the first time, first of
many.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT