OHL CLASSIC AT MAYAKOBA
November 12, 2014
Camilo Villegas
Manuel Villegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MARK STEVENS:   We'll go ahead and get started.   Thank you for joining us for a few minutes prior to the start of the OHL Classic at Mayakoba.   I couldn't help but overhear outside your last‑minute text message from your mom.   You can answer in Spanish.   Your thoughts on being here and playing for the second time on the PGA TOUR.
MANUEL VILLEGAS:   Good afternoon.   Like he said, I'm going to tell about how I entered this tournament.   I really didn't know that I could play.   I was practicing in Medellin.   I didn't have a cell phone, so it's hard to contact me lately in Medellin.   My mom contacted me through a text message that I got when I was resting at the club after a gym session and she told me to contact her immediately.   I didn't know what it was about, but when I called her she told me the news that I could play in the tournament. 
I had three hours to pack and prepare and prepare myself to take the flight to Cancun.   Everything was pretty quick, but everything went all right. 
MARK STEVENS:   Any comments on being able to play with your brother for the second time?
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   Obviously, very happy to be in Mexico and Cancun for the second time in Mayakoba OHL and all the sponsors, the volunteers, all the people that make this possible and make this week special.   And to have my brother Manuel by my side this week in the same tournament, it's very special.   Like Manuel said, I had been a few months looking for the invitation for him to get into the tournament, and a last minute thing, a spot opened up and he was able to join us.   So we'll try to keep this a little bit into the family this week.
MANUEL VILLEGAS:   Obviously, to play for the second time with my brother, it's very special and in a special tournament like this one.   It's a spectacular course.   I love coming to Mexico.   I love this country.   There is good food, great weather, the course is in great condition, and I'm delighted to be here this week with my brother.

Q.   How does it feel to play practically at home?   From the beginning you've been coming to Mexico with PGA Latin America.   You're very loved in Mexico.   Do you feel like you're playing at home? 
CAMILO VILLEGAS:   The attention we receive as Colombians and all the PGA TOUR in this country, it's incredible.   The attention from the Latinos is special, and to have the opportunity to come to Mexico since I was 15 and to play amateur and professional here.   Let's say, yes, it feels like you're at home. 
Everybody comes to me and shows the love they have.   They come to me and they're very kind and polite.   Let's say it's a Latino culture is more like my culture, and this makes me feel like I'm at home. 
MARK STEVENS:   Thank you very much for your time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT