WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2003
Robert Gamez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Robert Gamez, thank you for joining us for a few minutes.  It was a day where David Toms played a solid round of golf, except for 18, but he still hung in there and everybody tried to catch him. 
ROBERT GAMEZ:   You know, I just couldn't get my putter hot.  That was pretty much the story of my week.  I played pretty solidly today.  I hit a lot of great shots and just didn't capitalize on my birdie opportunities. 

Q.  Inaudible?
ROBERT GAMEZ:   After the putt at 10, I thought it was over.  Through the whole front nine I thought I had a chance, because these last few holes are tough.  You know, it's just one of those golf courses.  If you don't drive the ball straight, you're going to have a tough time. 
You know, it's just, it's a tough golf course.  I played extremely well all week and just couldn't get the putter working.  Unfortunately, that's kind of tough.  I could have done anything on the back nine, but I'm happy with my finish overall.  It would have been nice to finish second alone.  Wish I had not made the bogey on 17.  I hit a great shot but got an unfortunate lie to almost plug. 

Q.  Inaudible?
ROBERT GAMEZ:   My first tournament at Tucson, the first of my two wins, I had a six-shot lead going out and had a double to win by four.  That's pretty much it. 
I think I just let my guard down.  Had such a good weekend going into the last hole.  Certainly, 14-under, six-shot lead; and 18, not one that you can just let your guard down on.  It happens.  You know, obviously he putted well all week. 

Q.  Inaudible?
ROBERT GAMEZ:   Yeah, I'm happy.  If I could have gotten the putter working a little bit this week, it would have been really good, but there's always next week and the rest of the year.  I think I've made over 100,000 now and I'm playing great and just looking forward to playing. 

Q.  Inaudible?
ROBERT GAMEZ:  I 3-putted the 10th hole for bogey today when it was raining pretty hard.  The rain was bothering me a little bit.  I let the first putt get away from me and missed it coming back.  It's hard to putt with raindrops hitting your back pretty hard. 

Q.  Inaudible?
ROBERT GAMEZ:   Since Hilton Head.  I struggled early in the year with my golf game, mostly my swing and wasn't hitting my driver very well.  I wasn't hitting very many good iron shots but putting great.  Not chipping well but putting really well. 
Now since Hilton Head, I've actually been striking it pretty well and the putter has kind of flipped a little bit.  I guess that comes a little bit when you are hitting the ball close a lot; you're going to make a lot, but you're not going to make every one.  Still making birdies and making a few too many bogeys, but if I keep playing aggressively and I can keep making more birdies than bogeys and shooting good scores. 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Could we go through your birdies? 
ROBERT GAMEZ:   No. 1, I wedged to two and a half feet and made that. 
No.  2, I hit an 8-iron in there about seven, eight feet left of the hole and made it. 
I bogeyed the third hole.  Tried to hit a 3-wood off the tee and hit the trees left.  Ended up making a sloppy bogey, but that's just a good hole there. 
5, hit a good drive around the corner.  Hit 3-iron and to 2-putted  -- I had a 40-footer and 2-putted it. 
7, hit a good drive down the middle and hit a 4-iron on the green and 2-putted about 25 feet. 
Bogeyed 10 and 3-putted.  I hit my second shot right and knocked it up 15, 20 feet short of the hole and 3-putted down the hill. 
15, I hit a good wedge, I had like 44 yards after I hit my second shot and hit a wedge in there about four feet and made it. 
17, I hit a it right over the middle of the bunker thought it was going to be perfect and ended up half-plugging in the bunker made bogey. 
I can't complain.  I'm playing solidly and looking forward to the remainder of the year. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT