NBA ALL-STAR 2020
February 15, 2020
Devin Booker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  When you talked to your family about the All-Star selection, just how excited were they? And how are you feeling now?  
DEVIN BOOKER: I'm feeling good. Obviously, this is a big moment for me and my family, the whole Phoenix Suns organization and all my fans, everybody that supports me. So I'm happy to be here. I'm taking it all in. This is a very exciting time. It was always my dream to play on Sunday, and now I made it happen.   
 Q.  On the All-Star selection:  
DEVIN BOOKER: It's always been a dream of mine. First, it was always play in the NBA. Then I get to the NBA, and I want to leave a mark. So right when I got here and matched myself up with all the top competition in the world, I wanted to be a part of this. And I got here.   
 Q.  Have you spoken to Dame?  
DEVIN BOOKER: I have. I was serious when I said I want to reach out to him and make sure he's okay. So I guess it's only a couple-week injury time. But I have much respect for that guy right there. He said a lot of words after his injury that sit well with me because I respect him that much.   
 Q.  Obviously, that's a pretty big thing to hear those words.  
DEVIN BOOKER: It means so much because I respect him, like I said. Also, one of my favorite players to watch in the league. Just the approach that he brings to the game, the demeanor that he brings to the game and the killer mindset.   
I think it's a mutual respect off competition, off a competitive spirit. He's just an unbelievable player. What he's doing right now is something I don't think we've seen in NBA history ever.   
So congrats to him. I'm sure I'll be talking to him soon while I'm out here.   
 Q.  How do you think Leon Rose will do in his new role?  
DEVIN BOOKER: I think he'll do unbelievable. One of the most genuine guys I know. One of the most honest guys I know. So I'm happy for him in his new position. I think the Knicks are in really good hands.   
 Q.  Who takes the last shot?  
DEVIN BOOKER: Where?   
 Q.  At the All-Star Game.  
DEVIN BOOKER: I guess me. I don't know. I would. If I'm on the court, I'll do it.   
 Q.  You found out pretty late. Were you able to prepare for the 3-Point Contest?  
DEVIN BOOKER: I've had no preparation. I haven't shot off a rack since the last time I did a 3-Point Contest. So we'll see tonight how I do.   
 Q.  What is your relationship like with Buddy Hield on and off the court?  
DEVIN BOOKER: I've spent time with Buddy. Buddy and I did a China tour. I think our relationship started then. Extremely, extremely talented. The way he shoots the ball so effortless. Guarding him, I know from experience, you always have to be on your toes or he'll let it fly and it will go in. One of the players I look forward to matching up against is Buddy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT