NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2016
Devin Booker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So things start out a little slow for you this year and kind of picked up rather quickly.  Are you surprised by how well you've played of late or was it just a matter of getting an opportunity?  
DEVIN BOOKER: Just getting an opportunity.  I'd never be surprised in my own game.  I've worked hard a lot in my life.  The NBA's an unpredictable business.  You never know what's going to happen.  So I have the opportunity, and every time I go out there I try to play my hardest.  You can't take anything for granted.   
 Q.  A lot of people around you talk about your maturity.  You're the youngest guy in the league.  But where does that maturity come from?  Is it a family thing or just the way you're brought up?  
DEVIN BOOKER: Yeah, I have an older brother, and always hanging around my father.  You always want to be like your older siblings.  So hanging out with my older brother and his friends, they each carry themselves a certain way.  And I've always been more mature than my age, but at the same time, I can still have fun with my age group.  But especially in this business, it's my job, so you have to take it seriously.   
 Q.  What is the thing that surprised you most about the NBA game?  
DEVIN BOOKER: The traveling, especially when you're playing a lot of minutes, back-to-backs and going to different cities, living out of a suitcase.  There is a lot to it.  But this is what we always wanted in our lives and I'm sure everyone's having fun with it.   
 Q.  Getting invited to be in the Three-Point Shootout, that's a pretty big accomplishment for the youngest player in the league.  When you first heard that, what was your reaction to that?  
DEVIN BOOKER: I was really excited.  I didn't know who the field was at the time, but I was really excited.  Once I heard the field, it made me more excited.  The best shooters in the game are in there.  This is going to be one of the best three-point shootouts we've had in a while.  There is a lot of stiff competition.   
 Q.  You had a really great summer and early on you weren't in the rotation.  Was that kind of like, Hey, I'm the youngest guy in the league, I might have to wait a bit?  
DEVIN BOOKER: It's a process.  I'm a rookie.  I have to understand the process.  My father prepared me for this, so I always knew it was going to be a process.  I had an opportunity to already start playing and already getting big minutes.  So I have to take advantage of my opportunity.   
 Q.  Is it difficult to block out a lot of the negative things that were happening in Phoenix and just focus on your game or that's what you've got to do?  
DEVIN BOOKER: That's what you have to do.  Some people don't know from the outside what's really going on, but we all get along.  It's a great team to be around.  We just have to get wins.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT