NBA DRAFT
June 25, 2015
Devin Booker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DEVIN BOOKER:   Well, I'm definitely excited.   I took my visit to Phoenix, and I loved it.   I loved the city, and I'm just happy to be a Sun. 

Q.   If we had told you back in October when you were looking around that locker room that really seven of the guys in there would have a chance of getting picked, what would you have said?   And can you speak to the culture that your coaches built?     
DEVIN BOOKER:   If you told me seven of us would have been in this situation, I would have believed it but I don't think I would have been here.   The great group of talent that we had, I just felt like I was going to be there in a few years and I was going to learn from the older people and just come in and get better every year.   But the success of the team helped me out a lot, and you know, it's one of the greatest teams‑‑ well, the greatest team I've ever been on, and hopefully we can do the same in Phoenix.

Q.   How fierce will the competition be for Rookie of the Year among the four of you guys? 
DEVIN BOOKER:   Well, it's not out of just us four; there's a lot more.   I'm pretty sure it'll be fierce.   We're all competitive guys, and that's how our class has been, ever since we've been in the seventh and eighth grade we've always competed.   I'm proud of all of them, but we all have an understanding that on the next level we're all competing.

Q.   What was that moment like, Trey goes, you go right after, he said you guys found each other after some interviews.   Just to share that back‑to‑back with a guy you spent so much time with?
DEVIN BOOKER:   It's unbelievable.   It's like the Karl situation; I was pulling for him to go No.1.   It's because we're teammates, we're brothers, and we developed that brotherhood at Kentucky.   I'm just so proud of those guys, and there's still some more that have to come off the board and they're going to have bright futures, also.

Q.   What does four lottery picks say to you?
DEVIN BOOKER:   Talented team, and Cal is great. 

Q.   You talked about your brothers that are drafted, now you're going where Archie Goodwin, Eric Bledsoe, some other UK guys.   Talk about that roster, where you're going to fit into that and what do you bring to the Phoenix Suns. 
DEVIN BOOKER:   That roster is really talented with three UK guys there.   I feel I can bring shooting.   That's my elite talent that I feel translates to the next level right away.   I still feel like I have a lot to show that I still can show. 

Q.   Who designed that stylish blue?   Tell me more about it. 
DEVIN BOOKER:   A lot went into it.   I'm kind of a fashion guy, but obviously it's Big Blue Nation.   This is Kentucky right here.   I owed it to them after this great season that they gave to us.   I gave them a little tribute with my suit color.   Me and my dad talked about it a lot.   A lot went into it, but I like how it looks. 

Q.   I see your middle name is Armani.   I assume that that puts some pressure on being sartorially sharp.   Is it an Armani suit per se? 
DEVIN BOOKER:   I've actually met Giorgio before.   My dad played for Armani Jeans overseas, so when I went and visited him, I met him.   So I guess we'll see, but yeah, I'm definitely a fashion guy. 

Q.   How familiar are you with the head coach of the Phoenix Suns Jeff Hornacek?
DEVIN BOOKER:   Hornacek, he actually did the workout when we went there.   I didn't know much about him then but we kind of developed a relationship there.   We had a great vibe with him.   I was talking with him Eric, and Eric said, "We need a shooter here:   So I guess they made that come true. 

Q.   Phoenix only missed the playoffs by a handful of games.   How do you feel about being in the Western Conference?
DEVIN BOOKER:   I know it's talented and I know it's a deep conference and I know it's hard.   That's why I went to Kentucky.   We wanted everything hard and that's just how we do it.   We wouldn't want it any other way.   I know there's a lot of talented teams in the West, so I'm looking forward to playing against those teams. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT