CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: FLORIDA VS VIRGINIA
December 28, 2019
Marco Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You guys just decided to switch it up?  
MARCO WILSON: Yeah, just having a little fun.   
 Q.  How did you get to decide who was who?  
MARCO WILSON: We all just gave each other different jerseys in the locker room so everybody didn't have the same -- like their regular number on.   
 Q.  Did it throw the coaches off?  
MARCO WILSON: I don't know, maybe. Probably a little bit, watching film.   
 Q.  Seems like the mood is pretty loose for this team.  
MARCO WILSON: Yeah, still focused, though. We know what we're here for. But still trying to have fun at the same time.   
 Q.  How important is it to get that 11th win? You guys do seem like this game is very -- you're putting a real relevance on this game. Everyone is playing other than CJ.  
MARCO WILSON: Yeah, it's really important for us to get this win. Eleven wins would be cool to get, but also we're playing. Any time you're playing, we want to win no matter what, no matter what game it is or who we're playing against.   
 Q.  Coach has talked about this bowl game is kind of going to be a launching point for the next season. How much do you think about that in terms of building going forward?  
MARCO WILSON: Yeah, really the last time people get to see you on the field until next year. No matter what you did, the games before, usually people are going to just look at this game and have their opinion for the next season based off of this because it's the last game of the season. So it's really important to just handle our business in this game and put on a show.   
 Q.  What do you consider your next season?  
MARCO WILSON: Just after the bowl game, after everything is done for this season.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
MARCO WILSON: I'm not really waiting on anything right now, I'm just trying to focus on preparing for this game.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you have a decision to make?  
MARCO WILSON: Of course, definitely do. And I've talked to my family and coaches and all that after I get through with this game.   
 Q.  Obviously you're one of the five juniors that put in the official paperwork --  
MARCO WILSON: Yeah, I did.   
 Q.  Do you have your grade yet?  
MARCO WILSON: Yeah, I talked to Mullen about it, but we haven't spoke much about that. Just really focusing on the Orange Bowl right now.   
 Q.  This bowl game, a lot of younger players have used that as a jumping off point, Chauncey was the MVP against Iowa his freshman year. What kind of opportunity this for Kaiir, particularly with CJ not playing in this game?  
MARCO WILSON: He's got a lot of opportunities throughout the year and he'll have another opportunity to make plays this game. I think we'll see a lot of the younger guys, Jaydon and Chester out there, and it's getting them prepared for the next season, as well. Spring ball and all that, they've been getting a lot of reps in practice and just getting prepared for what's coming forward.   
 Q.  Virginia has got three really good receivers. What kind of match-up problems does that create for you guys?  
MARCO WILSON: Not really problems. We just have to make sure we know what we're doing and watching film and understanding what they like to do. They have some big receivers that like to get physical, so we've just got to be ready for that.   
 Q.  What do you expect from those young corners you're talking about?  
MARCO WILSON: Really just go out there and play with confidence. As a freshman, it's really exciting to go play. When you get out there you've got to know what you're doing. You can't be scared, just have confidence and go play.   
 Q.  What's the challenge of Bryce Perkins? He seems like the most explosive, dual threat guy you've faced. I know Burrow is (indiscernible) but maybe not quite the same runner.  
MARCO WILSON: Yeah, it's always important to watch out for the quarterback when you play a dude like that because out of nowhere he just tucks the ball and runs. We've been practicing a lot. The scout team quarterback has been running all over the place trying to make it realistic for the game. But it's a challenge when you get a quarterback like that, so we've got to be ready for that.   
 Q.  How dynamic is he?  
MARCO WILSON: He's pretty dynamic. He can run the ball and he can also throw it. So we've got to be ready. He's a good quarterback.   
 Q.  How much does it help having Jabari back in terms of containing him?  
MARCO WILSON: That helps a lot. Jabari, he's a vet and he knows what he's doing out there, so he'll help us on that.   
 Q.  Not having those two guys against LSU, do you think about that still?  
MARCO WILSON: Yeah, I think about it all the time. I feel like for myself if we had those two we would have probably won the game. But just got to work with what we have, focus on next year, trying to win it because we're not going to have those guys next year probably. We've just got to go out there and do that next year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT