WIMBLEDON
June 22, 2009
Sergio Roitman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. FISH/S. Roitman
  6-3, 6-2, 4-1 (Ret.) 
   
  Q. What's bothering you?  
 SERGIO ROITMAN: It's my shoulder. It's not new, it's something that I'm dealing with in the last months. And in the beginning it was kind of okay, and after an hour match, it started getting worse and worse, and to play against Mardy I need to be 100 percent fit. I cannot serve like 50 percent or 40 percent, which I was doing. So it's impossible for me.   
 Mentally it's very difficult to continue a tough match without my serve. It was not even one ace in the entire match, no free points with my serve, and he was getting so many free points with his serve, which is normal. It's almost impossible.   
  
  Q. Is it a rotator cuff?  
 SERGIO ROITMAN: No, it's the acromion up here. It's the bones. That's why it's complicated because it's not muscles, it's the bones.  
  
  Q. Had you thought about not going out at all?  
 SERGIO ROITMAN: No, I'm okay, I can play. I have my days, and today was a really bad one. I don't know if it's humidity or what. Some days I can play, it's okay, I can deal with it. And some other days it's very difficult, and today I woke up, and in the warmup it was hurting already, and I said, this is going to be a difficult day. I knew it.  
  
  Q. Away from that can you just assess, Mardy seemed to be playing well today.   
 SERGIO ROITMAN: He started a little nervous, I think. He was not playing very good in the beginning. I was almost taking advantage of that. I was really close to breaking him a couple times.   
 Then after the first set he got into a rhythm and he was playing good. He likes to play here on grass. I think he's playing good. He was playing good last week, also. So it could be a good tournament for him.  
  
  Q. Taking away today's outcome, but Grand Slams are not really in your favor so far in your career. What's up with that?   
 SERGIO ROITMAN: I don't know. I don't know. It's something that denied to me. I was not lucky in the last three years. It was always top 20 guys, always. What are you going to do? It's life, tennis.   
  
  Q. Is it disappointing because they're the grandest stage and you haven't won a match there?  
 SERGIO ROITMAN: Yeah, it is, but there's nothing that I can do about it. It's not that I'm not going to sleep at night because of that. I do the same for every tournament. I have extra motivation for Grand Slams. I couldn't do anything.  
  
  Q. So you look forward to the US Open and turning the tide?   
 SERGIO ROITMAN: Yeah, I hope so. I hope so.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT