BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 14, 2014
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WAWRINKA/M. Cilic
  6‑3, 4‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   Even though you lost, based on how your previous matches had gone, were you satisfied it was a close match, a three‑setter?
MARIN CILIC:   Yeah, absolutely.   I was eager to play better.   That's what I was focused on, to finish the season with a good matches, a good match.   So it happened like that.   So happy with my performance today. 
I was also close in the match when it was pretty important, that beginning of the third set, I felt Stan just dropped his level at the end of the second and the beginning of the third.   I had a big chance there to made that bigger gap.   But unfortunately I didn't play well after that few games, especially with the serve.   I didn't make any free points.   Missed just some easy balls.   So that was unfortunate. 
But overall satisfied with tennis. 

Q.   Can you tell us a little bit about what this year has been for you. 
MARIN CILIC:   Well, I would say big breakthrough.   As is often, the first steps are most important.   This year has been great experience in different ways, from tough matches to great successes.   I experienced that on different levels. 
Now to finish the year over here, it's I think extremely important for me for next year, too.   I am extremely satisfied, of course, where my game has developed.   I feel that for next year it's going to be also a bit easier considering the draws I'm going to be getting with the status of being seeded. 
It's going to be easier to have a few more matches, which I feel for my game is very important.   Confidence‑wise that gives me more confidence in my game.   So I believe even next year, and I'm hoping, of course, next year can be even better. 

Q.   A lot of players have found it difficult to re‑find the consistency after their first Grand Slam title.   What has been difficult for you?   What have been the challenges?   Has Novak been able to give you any advice to see you through this period?
MARIN CILIC:   I mean, looking back now towards US Open, emotion‑wise, body has been a little more tired.   Also end of the year, I played many matches.   I don't think I ever played this many matches.   In the last few weeks, I started to feel that the body is more open for injuries.   I was having little bit trouble with my arm.   Also even pulled my stomach muscle little bit in the first match. 
So overall it's hard to organize that and to be able to organize that a bit better. 
I mean, with Novak, I just spoke with him when I was with him in Beijing.   Friendly advice that he gave me.   I'm taking care of the media obligations.   Of course, that's going to be much more now and in the future.   I'm still focused on what I have to do. 

Q.   What changed after you winning a Grand Slam in your daily life, but you answered career‑wise.   I'm asking about your daily life, the requirements, the media, sponsors' deals.   Also a specific question related to your answer.   You are 198.   Does that kind of height require specific precautions with trainers compared to a not‑as‑tall player?
MARIN CILIC:   Concerning the first question, I have my own team.   I think everybody's doing their job at the top.   That brought me to the top, brought me to win the Grand Slam.   So with these things, the new things, it's I think going to be taken care of in the future even better. 
I feel it's still good.   I was able to still focus on my game, not to think too much about bad and difficult parts of being a Grand Slam champion, only positive things.   I'm enjoying that.   That's a huge motivation for moving forward. 
And for the other question, you know, it's difficult to say.   I would say for the taller guys like me, when I'm feeling good on the court with movement, I'm feeling the best in my game, because the other parts are always going to follow.   I always played the best when I was moving the best. 
So with that, of course, we are maybe more vulnerable in difficult situations.   But I was pretty good, free of injuries, more or less, during my career.   So that was a positive part. 
Still, everybody has some problems, issues.   Just depends on the body. 

Q.   This journey you took this year with Goran Ivanisevic, can you tell us what he brought not only on the court, but off the court?
MARIN CILIC:   I think just the relationship that we have, it's a very friendly relationship.   Goran is also Croatian, very easygoing.   He is there really to help me.   You can also see when he's watching that he's in there every point.   That gives me always some extra motivation and confidence that I give few extra percent.   I believe that's very important between the player and the coach. 
Off court, basically with my whole team, I'm feeling much more relaxed than in the past.   That helped me to be better on the court.   Also the things off the court are always connected with things on the court. 

Q.   The celebration of your US Open win was a big occasion back home.   There was some controversy due to the presence of the singer Thompson.   I know you weren't happy that the regional media took the focus away from that.   Are you familiar with the songs of his that earned him a negative reputation?   Can you understand why some people might be surprised or upset to see you with him?
MARIN CILIC:   If you have some questions about tennis, I'll be happy to answer.   But for this, I have no comment. 

Q.   You played both Roger and Stan recently.   Do you have any idea or thoughts on how that match would go tomorrow?
MARIN CILIC:   I mean, I haven't played with Roger since US Open, but I felt today with Stan that he maybe still isn't at his best shape due to dropping in his level of the game. 
Of course, his losses last couple months probably put some scar into it.   But Stan is always very dangerous, so it's going to be interesting match there.   Always playing interesting matches, close encounters. 
But I feel that Roger has been playing a little bit better. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT