BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 12, 2014
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/M. Cilic
  6‑3, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   After your great success in New York, it must be a bit disappointing how you played today and this week.   Can you talk a little bit about it. 
MARIN CILIC:   Yeah, it's, of course, a little bit disappointing to play like this.   I was not expecting it.   But sort of I feel a little bit tired, and body feels a little bit tired on the court. 
It seems that the things that I'm doing that are all basically going in a wrong direction.   Especially with these guys at this kind of level, even small mistakes, or if you're not at your best performances, the outcome is not going to be going in your favor. 
I haven't also been playing last few weeks.   Also the body, of course, is not at the best possible shape.   So that's also one of the small parts that have a big part, actually, in the matches, yeah. 
I mean, it's unfortunate, as well.   I was looking forward to play here, to do well, to play good matches on a high level.   But, you know, yeah, it's a little bit, of course, tough to handle, tough to look at. 
Both matches I've played, I didn't play on a good level.   And, yeah, that's tough to handle, too. 

Q.   I don't want to be rude, but I'm not going to ask again if you feel sorry, sad or angry.   The other day, Federer said on the slow court the serve is not so important like moving fast.   Do you agree with him?   Do you think that could be a reason why everyone is serving worse than normally you do? 
MARIN CILIC:   Yeah, the conditions feel a little bit, you know, heavy and hard, like to be able with one shot to make a winner. 
The conditions, I feel I'm not getting the best out of my game.   Also plus the body's maybe on a lower level than usual.   It's end of the season.   It can happen like that. 
But, yeah, looking forward to play another match, hopefully play on a higher level. 

Q.   For Davis Cup, Federer winning or not winning, would that have any effect on how you would view his career as a whole?
MARIN CILIC:   It can only be a plus, I mean, not a minus.   If he wins it, it's amazing success.   If he doesn't, I mean, he still had an incredible career.   So it can be a cherry on the cake. 

Q.   On Friday you're playing against Stan Wawrinka.   What are you thinking about this third match for you? 
MARIN CILIC:   In that match, we'll see tonight, but I will have small chances to go through the groups.   It's going to be I think more pressure on Stan, that he has to win.   I mean, we'll see, I don't know. 
But, anyway, I'm going to try to enjoy.   I deserve to be here as a matter of having a great season.   Of course, try to play well and to perform well on Friday. 

Q.   Just to make you relax.   Did you think about asking Goran Ivanisevic to come and replace you, serving as he can do?   Can he still serve as well as you do or not?
MARIN CILIC:   Yeah, absolutely, absolutely.   I mean, you see Goran, when he's playing his exhibition matches, okay, it's still fun and he's not going full.   But, no, his serve is still, I would say, one of the best motion that the game has seen, I would say, for sure. 
So it would be interesting to bring him couple points in (smiling). 

Q.   Does being US Open champion make these losses a bit less disheartening than it would have been otherwise?
MARIN CILIC:   How do you mean? 

Q.   Winning the US Open, doing such a huge thing, you obviously can't beat that for the rest of the year.   Does that maybe make these losses maybe less disappointing?
MARIN CILIC:   Well, for sure.   I mean, of course, it's a little bit of a disappointment to lose the matches like I did.   But, I mean, I played against the guys who are at the top of the game.   Considering everything, I didn't play well, and the outcome is not going to be much different. 
But having won a US Open is going to make this season look amazing.   So that's always a huge, positive part to looking into the things. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT