SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 6, 2014
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







I. KARLOVIC/M. Cilic
  7‑5, 2‑6, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   Karlovic can always be a tricky one.   What didn't you execute well on today? 
MARIN CILIC:   Well, I was a bit unfortunate to lose that first set.   I had in my service game that I lost seven, eight game points.   But later I started to play much better.   Then I was having momentum. 
Also beginning of the third I had in one game 15‑30, I think I was 2‑1 up.   I was in a good position at that point to go up 15‑40.   Then later I didn't have many opportunities.   Ivo was serving very well. 
Obviously, I mean, two points in the tiebreaker on my serve didn't play well.   One double‑fault.   One Ivo hit a big shot.   It's a gamble with him.   He goes all in or nothing.   It's always difficult. 
He was serving really well towards the end of the match.   I couldn't get into his serve.   It can happen with Ivo.   It's always tricky. 

Q.   Last week you said you were nervous before playing your first matches since the Open.   Have those nerves dissipated now?   Do you feel it's back to normal or do you still feel pressure?
MARIN CILIC:   It's back to normal.   I felt good.   Even these days I was practicing a bit better.   I was a bit drained with energy still in Beijing.   I came there, I played.   I wanted to play, but on the court I felt not motivating myself, not pushing when I was in some difficult points. 
This week I'm feeling better.   The game, I'm feeling it's on the spot.   Though I lost today, it's unfortunate, bad luck, but sort of I'm going with positive energy into next weeks to finish the season well. 

Q.   What is the biggest challenge for you now, having played so well in New York?   Is it trying to get that consistency?   Everyone expects you to go deep into tournaments like this. 
MARIN CILIC:   Yeah, it's just to keep my level of game on a good position.   Obviously, I mean, everywhere is different conditions.   So like beginning of the tournaments I'm going to have to be more focused to go through first few matches.   Happened the same in New York.   I played a bit more rusty in the first few matches, then afterwards just everything was flowing. 
I think that's going to be the same formula for the rest of the tournaments in this season and the rest of my career, absolutely.   I'm playing well.   Just need to get that match rhythm, win those points that are critical.   In some matches, I don't have to be too nice to make it happen, give myself another opportunity in the next days. 

Q.   You have a Chinese sponsor, Li Ning.   How has that been after winning the Open?   Have there been a lot of activities, more so than you might have had to do a couple years ago?
MARIN CILIC:   I did a lot in Beijing, getting big support from Chinese fans.   Obviously it's a big plus having a Chinese sponsor over here.   The market is so big, I mean, if you are doing well, they are exposing me here in China.   I did a lot of interviews, a lot of photo shootings and things like that. 
I feel normal.   As I was mentioning, I was in Beijing a little bit drained out from all the things I did.   But now I'm feeling fresh.   Tennis is in a good spot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT