WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2014
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. CILIC/T. Berdych
  7/6, 6/4, 7/6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Congratulations. 
MARIN CILIC:   Thank you.

Q.   Obviously it was quite dark out there.   Just wondering, what were your thoughts in the last few games?   Did you want to continue? 
MARIN CILIC:   Yeah, well, I played few times already here at Wimbledon very late.   I mean, actually I wasn't thinking about it too much.
Unfortunately, I wasn't able to convert one of the many break points I had in the third set.   Obviously there, I mean, I was in a situation where I would like to finish and to play until we can.
I mean, I didn't ask anything about the referee.   I felt if we go to the tiebreak we're going to have to finish ‑ if there is light anyway.   But it was very, very dark in the tiebreak.
Just I was very fortunate to be able to win that one.   It was very close, especially that third set.   I have to say that Tomas stayed in the match unbelievably mentally.   I was putting a lot of pressure on him on his serves, and many of his service games I had Love‑30, 15‑30, a lot of opportunities, small ones.
But he was able to always play some great points and he pushed me until the limit. 

Q.   You came back very strong after the time you took off from the tour.   You were moving really well.   Everything seems to be clicking in for you.   You have played wonderful matches here.   Are you a different player right now? 
MARIN CILIC:   With the mind perspective, yes.   A lot of course had to do with that, that ‑‑ I mean, this time off that I had, I tried to use it in a very positive way to try to learn some new things.
When I came back, I was much more eager to do better on the court and to use every opportunity I have.   I have to say, I'm very also happy with my team.   I think they are amazing team, and they're helping me a lot with the training and with just preparation for the tournaments.
It's working out well, and I'm playing over here really good tennis.   I have to take opportunity of that to try to keep going deeper in the tournament.

Q.   From the four slams, do you think Wimbledon is the one with your type of game that is the one you should do better in?   You're very strong here. 
MARIN CILIC:   Yes and no.   I mean, Wimbledon is very difficult to judge on.   You play on grass just two tournaments in a year and you can happen to be in a bad form or out of rhythm.   I mean, last couple years we've seen over here many upsets of the big guys.
You can't really rely on that that you're going to play really well at Wimbledon every year.   In the past I played really well in US Open and Australia. 
But if I'm playing the best tennis I can play, my best tennis is over here.

Q.   I was talking to your coach, and he was telling me that he feels you can go to the final here.   He says that you need to believe that even if you're not playing your best, you can still win matches.   Do you agree?   Do you think this is one of the things that can make you make that extra push?   What other things do you need to work on?
MARIN CILIC:   Definitely I think that's a part of going deep in the Grand Slams.   It's tournaments over two weeks ans you play seven matches, seven completely different guys.
This year, for example, there hasn't been almost any rain and the courts are drier, conditions are a bit slower, and you have to adjust on everything.
Some days are more windy, colder, and have to be able to deal with that. 
I mean, different examples.   For example, Rafa didn't play too great first couple of matches.   Who knows, maybe he's going to go deep in the tournament.   You never know.   If you win couple ‑‑those tough matches even when you're not playing well, you're going to have another opportunity.
I think that's the best part of being in a Grand Slam.   You play best‑of‑five sets matches and you have enough time to get your game on a very good level. 

Q.   Also Tomas, he was playing very well the entire match.   High quality.   A lot of pressure.   In the past, you know, I've seen in matches that, you know, you let it go.   Lately like you hang in there.   You were strong mentally there.   Is that something new that gives you more confidence?   He was a finalist.   Does it give you a lot of confidence?
MARIN CILIC:   Yeah, I spoke a lot about that with Goran.   We worked a lot actually on that.   That was part of the game which I had to improve.   I basically didn't have any option not to in the case to be able to improve.
I feel that this part, when I'm playing well, to keep pushing and to try to keep high‑quality level of tennis for the course of three‑set matches or five‑set matches.   Today was one of those great examples for me that I showed to myself and to many others that I'm capable of playing high‑quality tennis over the course of two and a half, three hours matches.
That's really giving me a lot of confidence.   I have to say, for me, it's a relief and a big sign that I can do it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT