ROLAND GARROS
May 30, 2014
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/M. Cilic
      6‑3, 6‑2, 6‑7, 6‑4 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   When you're coming back in the last set, winning the third, going to four, do you think maybe you can make this turn, because you were playing really aggressive against him?  
    MARIN CILIC:   Well, yeah.   I mean, I felt even third set I was able to come back, and it was good effort especially against Novak, because very rarely he's   letting the opportunities go away, and he's very rarely giving the opportunities to open and still to come back after leading two sets to love.  
    And after that third set where I had, I was a break up, then I lost my serve, I was playing much better, played really good.   
    I mean, in the fourth, it seemed when he held after I had Love‑40 on his serve for 3‑Love and he had on my serve two times in a row Love‑40 was, I mean, the set could have gone very easily on his side, but after that, I mean, I came back.   I played really well.   
    Very pity in the end to lose my service games.   I was there 30‑15, missed the forehand by not too much.   
    I think overall I played really good tennis today, and I am happy with that.   Of course, when looking into some small details you're gonna always find some mistakes.   
    But the serve I was, now looking back, I think the serve wasn't the best today.   But, you know, when you're playing against somebody like Novak he's gonna return some balls that you're not used to against some other players, and then you feel you're gonna go for a little bit more, and I think that was a bit the case today.  
   
 Q.   I think you've been a little bit more consistent ever since you started working with Goran Ivanisevic.   Why don't you talk to us about your relationship with Goran and your expectation for the season on grass now.   
    MARIN CILIC:   Yeah, with Goran, I worked in different parts of the game.   He helped me with the understanding of the game, to play, of course, with a different mindset than what I had before.  
    I think with the game I think it worked out pretty well, and I accepted it.   I'm doing well with it and just feeling a little bit sad that, I mean, sometimes I'm close to winning against these big guys.   I'm just very close to that finish line but never coming through it.   And I hope it's going to, these wins are going to hopefully come soon.  
    Considering with the relationship with Goran, I think it's working really good.   I'm happy with that.  
   
 Q.   Your expectations for the season on grass?  
    MARIN CILIC:   Yeah, I think my game will be really suited for the grass and looking forward for these grass court tournaments.   It's a short season, and I feel I can do well.   Especially with the tennis I played today, aggressive and I felt a bit with Novak that he was having trouble sometimes with this type of play.  
    So I'm really positive with that and have to be focused to do well next few weeks.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT