CHINA OPEN
October 1, 2012
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. COPIL/M. Cilic
  3‑6, 7‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English. 

Q.   What went wrong today?
MARIN CILIC:   Well, I would say just I wasn't serving consistently well, especially, I mean, when I had the break up in all three sets I would lose my serve, especially there in the third set. 
I lost it.   I mean, on the beginning of the third set, the first break that I lost I almost won all those three points that I lost before the break of the serve, and then I missed, either made a double fault or made a wrong call for the Hawkeye and missed one easy ball, and then at the end of the set I just lost couple points which I almost won.
So it was a little bit difficult to judge for me that, I mean, couple points decided.   I think he served really well, especially from the second set to when he broke me back and in the third set.

Q.   Like you said, he served insanely well.   Can you go into that a little bit, like how ‑‑because it looked like you made some adjustments in the second set.   You were standing back off the baseline a little bit more.   Can you tell me a little bit more about that?
MARIN CILIC:   Well, yeah, I tried to move a little bit more around just to give him a different perspective to look at.   It was working well, especially on the second serve.   I was winning a lot of points on the return with that, I think, but mostly the problem came in my service games where I didn't execute in the right way   I wanted. 
That just gave him a little bit of an edge, and he was more relaxed on his service games.

Q.   Can you just express how disappointed you are?   You made the final last year, so presumably you came into this tournament hoping to go one better. 
MARIN CILIC:   Well, yes.   I'm very disappointed, as I always feel here may be the best in the year, and the conditions here would suit my game almost perfectly.   Really sad that I lost, but looking ahead, I have to be positive for next three tournaments to try to play well, and hopefully I'm going to get my chance next year.

Q.   You seem like a fan favorite here in Beijing.   Can you talk about that a little bit?
MARIN CILIC:   Yeah, I'm not sure about that, but probably because I played well here helps a little bit.   And because of my sponsorship with Li Ning, it also helps to promote myself in China and also through a couple things like Weibo I'm using and things like that just to interact with the fans, so it can help to build a big group.

Q.   So you will stay here several days or come to Shanghai?
MARIN CILIC:   I'm still in the doubles tournament, so I'm going to play doubles.   Depends how I'm going to play here.
In the years before, in Shanghai, I wasn't playing well just because of the late arrival there, and I didn't have enough time to prepare for the different conditions and different courts.
So I'm going to of course play here as much as I can and then try to go there as early as possible. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT