CHINA OPEN
October 9, 2011
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. BERDYCH/M. Cilic
      3-6, 6-4, 6-1 
  
     THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. I am just wondering what motivated you to do so well in the first half of the game?   
     MARIN CILIC: Well, motivated me to win a title, of course. (Smiling.) But it was also big motivation from my own side to win it as I lost in the final two years ago.   
     Feeling a little bit disappointed by the loss today.   
  
  Q. Do you think you're going to come back to China Open next year? Do you have any plans for the London Olympics?  
     MARIN CILIC: Yes, I believe I'm going to come back here; the tournament suits me great and I play always very good here.  
     Concerning the Olympics, it's going to be my second time to the play at Olympics. It's going to be played on grass in London, so surface that can be good for my game.   
     So we'll see how my form is going to rise until then.   
  
  Q. I was wondering, seemed by the second set you had given up. I was wondering, what do you think was the main cause for that seeing as you did so well in the first set?  
     MARIN CILIC: Well, I didn't give up. I mean, it was just few points decided the second set. I had couple break points in the last service game that Tomas played, and then the third set went the way it did.   
  
  Q. Congratulations anyway, Marin. Actually I'm interested in your doubles. Do you and Ivan have enough time to practice doubles together, and how do you prepare for doubles for major tournaments?   
     MARIN CILIC: Thank you. Well, me and Ivan played few times also before at this tournament and during the year. When we are together, we try more or less just to practice a little bit mainly for singles, which is our priority.  
     By that, we are more trying to improve some things that are going to help for our singles game.   
  
  Q. You did well in the first set; second set you broke back and seemed to be on fire. Can you pinpoint a moment where perhaps Tomas was just getting upper hand, or was there a moment in your game that you can now see that you started to go a little bit amiss?  
     MARIN CILIC: Yeah, I would say that I was playing really great tennis from the beginning of the match. That first set went really well on my side, and Tomas was hitting the ball pretty hard. I would say that he wasn't playing bad that first set. He had really high percentage of first serve, but I was returning a lot of balls back and moving great.  
     The second set, I mean, I think he played also really well and I just missed couple balls. And on my service game I felt that I'm there, I'm still with him. It was important for me to come back, but that took a bit of energy from me to also be ready for that end of the second set.   
     I had two advantages on 4-All game; got maybe a little bit tension; he served two big first serves. I mean, I was on the ball, but just didn't make it.   
     From then on, I think he started to play a little bit better and wasn't giving me as much and I wasn't finding right solutions for the game after that.   
  
  Q. Just going to ask about the atmospherics. That was quite humid out there, almost unseasonably humid, and there was a bit of smog around. Did that have any affect on your performance? Of course it's the same for both of you.   
     MARIN CILIC: Yeah, it was very humid, more than all the other days we played here. Just I would say took more energy from both of us, but in a sense more out of me as he's a kind of guy that he was hitting bigger than me. I was the guy who had to run more.  
     But I didn't feel that my physical energy was dropping. Just maybe felt psychologically in these critical moments, especially end of the second set and beginning of the third, missed a few chances here and there. So I would say that was the reason.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT