CHINA OPEN
October 7, 2011
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. CILIC/K. Anderson
  7-6, 6-4, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. (Through translation.) How would you comment on your performance and on your opponent's performance for today?
 MARIN CILIC: I think it was interesting match, especially, you know, we had both of us a little bit ups and downs. I was serving for that first set; he came back; I won the tiebreak; I was up a break in the second; had a break point on 4-3.
 So it was a little bit up and down from both of us, but I think I played well in the critical moments, especially first set tiebreak and then the beginning of the third set, which was really important to get a break up.
 After losing that second set, you know, mentally it helped me to be more positive and stay in there. I was looking for my chances, and converted them in the end. 

 Q. (Through translation.) In your next round opponent, Ivan Ljubicic is your compatriot and your couples partner. What's your expectation for tomorrow's match? 
 MARIN CILIC: I think we played against each other this year in Wimbledon first round, and Ivan won that match.
 But I believe I'm playing well at this moment. I watched today also his match and he was playing really well and got through that match really well. 
 I think definitely tomorrow is going to be interesting and tough match for both of us. I think he's again hungry to win and playing well. And definitely for me, it would mean a lot to come back to the final again in Beijing and try to look for my title. 
 One match at a time. Just hope I'm going to be on a better performance than even I was today. 

 Q. (Through translation.) I've got two questions: You have been here playing China Open. Have you discovered something new in this year's China Open? Second question: In China Open, from the very beginning they claim to become the fifth Grand Slam tournament. In what aspect do you believe that China Open need to make improvement so that it will become the fifth Grand Slam? 
 MARIN CILIC: Okay, I discovered a new stadium when I arrived here. That's one of the things. Well, I mean, not much. The facility and all the things are pretty much the same, except the new stadium. But I think there is more fans this year, and that's nice to see. 
 And the second question was? 

 Q. In what particular aspect do you believe that the China Open needs to make improvements so they can become a real Grand Slam?
 MARIN CILIC: It's tough to say. I mean, these four Grand Slams that are at present time, they are I believe doing well. But definitely there was some talks about moving -- that Asia is looking for one Grand Slam. 
 I mean, it's tough for me to say what, but I feel over here great, and I believe that tournament and organization is on a high level.
 So that is really important for the players, especially looking the size of the draws which the girls have; and the guys, they are more than hundred players here, and nobody is I think feeling it. The facilities are really huge, and that allows us to practice more and to be more comfortable. 
 So it's great tournament.

 Q. (Through translation.) In 2009, you reached the final in China Open, losing to Novak. This year, you have already reached the semifinal. There is one more step so you can reach the final again. Only two more matches and you will be winning the China Open. Do you believe that here in China Open it's kind of lucky place for you? 
 MARIN CILIC: Yes, I always felt here like I was always playing really great tennis, and the conditions over here suit for my game and my great performances.
 Looking back two years ago I had one of my best tournaments in my career here. Coming back this year again, before the tournament I felt I was playing good and I was sort of -- I had my goals to try to reach the weekend, which I did. 
 You know, it's a great feeling. I didn't have easy matches. I went through a few tough ones and draw a little bit opened for me. 
 But definitely it's now great challenge to try to come to the final and lift the trophy. That would be great thing for my season, and definitely for next of my career. 

 Q. Congratulations for your win. First question: Talk about your serve, especially in the second set in the first game when you saved three break points. So what do you think about your serve? Second question: Your next opponent is Ivan. No matter who win this match, one will be step into the final. Since you and him are from the same sponsor, so what do you want to say to the sponsor?
 MARIN CILIC: Yeah, considering my serve, I think it wasn't great today. I served better in my last match. I would say the conditions of the weather and the air was pretty cool, so it felt that the balls were flying little slower through the air and then I was trying to hit a little bit harder - harder than I can. 
 And in some patches of the match it was not coming in often. So that's why I lost couple times when I was break up. I lost my serve just because of my low percentage of first serve. So I hope I'm going to be in a better rhythm tomorrow. 
 And for two of us, for me and Ivan playing, I think it's great for both of us, and definitely for our sponsor, for Li Ning. We played doubles yesterday evening, and it was great to see that a lot of people came to watch and support us.
 So I believe we are present here in China, and especially at Beijing, as the guys who played well. And then with more media coverage, I think it also helps us to promote our image. So it's great definitely for us and great for the sponsor to have at least one player in the final. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT