CHINA OPEN
October 3, 2011
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. CILIC/D. Wu
  6-2, 6-0

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. This is debut for the China Open new stadium. What's your comment about the stadium? Next question is: For today's opponent, Wu Di is a young Chinese player, so what's your advice for the future Chinese young players? 
 MARIN CILIC: Well, the stadium is really nice, and inside of it is good to play. It's a bit more indoor atmosphere. It's pretty closed, so it was suiting my game. Inside today there was no wind, so I think they were perfect conditions. There was a little bit in some stage at the beginning to adjust on the sun part of the court and the shade, but after few games it was fine.
 And for Wu Di, I think he's a very good, talented young player. I also practiced with him last year, and he can hit the ball well. As you can see, from both sides he's pretty solid. I think what he needs also is a little bit of experience on this level, and what all young players are going through challengers and then to come to the ATP. 

 Q. Your opponent said you took advantage of his weakness very well. Can you tell us what is his weakness? 
 MARIN CILIC: Well, the difference was that, you know, he's not big hitter of the ball. From the baseline he's solid, but you're not expecting from him that he's going to hit big. So in the points where I would get a slight advantage I was controlling it, and then I was pretty good aggressive when I had to be. 
 In some moments also on his second serve I was hitting big, and then he didn't have a chance to defend. So I think that was, from my side, well that I started from the beginning like that and I was making those shots. It was pretty easy afterwards.

 Q. You're always a very consistent player, but your results this year dropped a little bit. Talk about the reason behind that. 
 MARIN CILIC: I feel that form is rising since July, and I had some really good tournaments and good wins against top players. So I'm feeling confident. 
 And also here today I played well, you know, so just look forward for my next match. It won't be easy, but I hope I'm going to be 100% ready. 
 But concerning this, everybody goes through ups and downs, especially young players, and that was also one of my learning experiences. 

 Q. When you're going through a period like that when the results aren't coming, is it easy to tell yourself it's just a phase and you will get back, or you get very frustrated about it?
 MARIN CILIC: You know, you have the different stages, you know, but I think the most positive thing you can do about it is to work pretty hard on the practice. You know, you feel good about those things.
 What I was also feeling was that I was improving. I felt that my shots were improving after this period. It was just matter of putting those things together in the match.
 So it was not easy to wait all the time and to be patient, but I got through it, and that's the most important. 

 Q. During the first set you lost two games and none in the second. What, if anything, did you improve to change your game personally? 
 MARIN CILIC: Sorry? 

 Q. What did you do to improve your game in the second set?
 MARIN CILIC: Okay. In the beginning it was a little bit difficult to adjust on the conditions. When I came on the side with the shade, it was a little bit -- you know, I got lost there with the focus and the ball was coming differently. I didn't see it clearly.
 Afterwards, I think I got more relaxed and serve got into the place. I think I found a good way of putting him under pressure, and also defending well and putting the ball in difficult positions for him. 

 Q. We all can see the big logo on your shirt. Your sponsor celebrate your birthday in Beijing, and you did the photo shooting for them. Did you feel maybe a little bit extra pressure to do well near Beijing? 
 MARIN CILIC: Yeah, it's true, they organized a pretty good birthday celebration, one of maybe the best I had away from home -- definitely the best one.
 Concerning the pressure for a tournament, it's not more pressure. But I would really like to play well and to do well here, especially in China to, in a sense, try to get good result, and also in that way promote myself a bit more.
 But tennis is tennis. Just looking, you know, to play well, and with that the results are going to come. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT