BARCLAYS DUBAI TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
February 23, 2010
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. CILIC/A. Clement
  6-2, 6-4 
   
  Q. Must be very happy with your serving today?  
 MARIN CILIC: Yeah, well, first set wasn't that great. I mean, I didn't have a big percentage on the first serve, but also he didn't push me to the limits as I was winning my service games pretty easily.   
 Then it wasn't easy also second set. He was little bit off and on, hitting some good balls but then also missing. It wasn't easy for to get the rhythm. And then later I got a little bit he slowed me down with that, missing, hitting and these things. But I was pretty happy that I won that last game.  
  
  Q. Serving's always been a major part of your game. Did your new occasional coach teach you much about serving in Zagreb the other week?   
 MARIN CILIC: Yeah, I mean, we worked on that. It should help me. He, of course, he knows some things, and he always has some refreshment is always good to listen to some advice that he is giving me. Of course, it was very helpful, and I believe I can work on it. And in the long-term plan, I can get it better.   
  
  Q. Specifically on the serve?   
 MARIN CILIC: Yeah, well, most of the game. But the serve he has some good -- he had some good advices. And his serve was also really simple, and then he's making things really easy to learn.   
  
  Q. What sort of lessons did you learn from your experience of getting to the semifinal of the Australian Open? What have you taken from that?   
 MARIN CILIC: I don't know about lessons. Well, I think looking just globally in my game how I played there in some matches against the top guys, I think, helps me in understanding that I have to do those kind of things on a daily basis. I have to push myself all the time to do those things. Like last year, I was play a few tournaments good and I would like lose a little bit and then get it back.   
 But I think looking in the future, I think those things when I play against those big guys, I have to play like that most of the time.   
  
  Q. Can you just explain how -- if you just cast your mind back to the Andy Murray match -- how did you feel when he hit that amazing shot that you lobbed him, he ran back. Can you just talk us through how you felt after that point?   
 MARIN CILIC: Well, I mean, for me it wasn't, of course, it was little bit disappointing to lose my service game like that. But I think it helped him more to get back rather than for me to be in a position that is not as good for me.   
 Later, I mean, he was serving pretty good. And one set all the game started to be different. I was not as sharp on the beginning, and the ball wasn't coming off my racquet as quick. And he had many more chances, obviously. Psychologically it was turned around.  
  
  Q. Did you think you'd won that point when you hit that lob so well?   
 MARIN CILIC: Oh, I didn't think about it. Of course, I mean it didn't happen in my career that I'm lose that kind of point before, but it's --  
  
  Q. It looked like you thought he was going to go crosscourt with it?  
 MARIN CILIC: Yeah, I mean I didn't think he was going to get it, so (smiling). That's the way it is. What can I say?   
  
  Q. Your next match?   
 MARIN CILIC: Yeah, I play Koubek. We played once in Davis Cup a few years ago, and we played later. But he won here a couple of matches in quallies. He can be dangerous. I have to focus on myself to serve good and to try to play as aggressive as I can. That's the way I have to play.   
  
  Q. I think the weather is too hot for you, is it?   
 MARIN CILIC: Excuse me?   
  
  Q. Is it too hot?   
 MARIN CILIC: No, perfect. Perfect conditions. I like it. I like to play in the sun.   
  
  Q. You are playing next week Ecuador for the Davis Cup. Are you favorite for that match?   
 MARIN CILIC: Well, I mean looking on the paper, I think we have a solid team, also playing at home. But we can't underestimate your team, Ecuador. Of course I believe we are slight favorites, but has to be on the court. When the matches start you have to be ready to go.  
  
  Q. Do you know what surface?   
 MARIN CILIC: It's going to be indoors, hard court, indoors.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT