AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2008
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Are we seeing the new Mario Ancic of the game? 
 MARIN CILIC:  I don't know if it's new.  I have my own game, so I don't know.  It's good to compare me with Mario, because I am -- has a good game for his height.  So I think I should develop more as he is playing.  So I'm going to try to play more aggressively and try more to come into the net. 

 Q.  How does it feel to be in the fourth round of a major? 
 MARIN CILIC:  I feel it's normal.  I mean, of course, feels -- it feels great. 
 I mean, I played three very good matches.  I'm in good form.  My physical shape is quite good, and today was probably the best, the best match so far in my career. 

 Q.  Must be giving you confidence to make this kind of a run. 
 MARIN CILIC:  I was doing quite a good preparation for before the season, and I played in Chennai very good, then also in Auckland.  I lost to Kohlschreiber in three sets where he played quite a good match, and then I came here. 
 I mean, I started very good with the first round.  Second round was a little bit tougher, but today was good for my that we played with the roof closed, so it was -- it was easier to play.  It was better for me. 
 I could take control of the point and I wasn't letting him to develop his game. 

 Q.  Were you encouraged at all as a youngster to be a basketball player instead of a tennis player? 
 MARIN CILIC:  When you're seven years old you're not tall as now, so I started to play tennis and was good.  So, I mean... 

 Q.  So you weren't tall at seven?  You were small? 
 MARIN CILIC:  Yeah, of course.  (laughter) 

 Q.  Croatia has won the Davis Cup final in Bratislava three years ago, did that make special encouragement for you to step up, be a better player? 
 MARIN CILIC:  I don't know.  I wasn't on the team, so I don't know.  Of course it helped all nation because more finances were coming into the federation, and, of course, for younger players, so that -- that thing helped a lot. 

 Q.  But you never played basketball then? 
 MARIN CILIC:  No.  (laughter) 

 Q.  But you didn't, seriously? 
 MARIN CILIC:  No. 

 Q.  What about Blake?  You played him a year and a half ago or so. 
 MARIN CILIC:  Yeah, I played him in Bangkok.  Of course, I mean, he's good athlete, playing quite good on the hard courts, and I think I should play maybe a little similar as today:  Try to serve good and try to move the game to his backhand, because forehand is obviously much better shot. 

 Q.  You're expecting a much better match than in Bangkok? 
 MARIN CILIC:  Well, Bangkok was different.  I was quite young there and unexperienced.  Here I am -- here, this is Grand Slam.  I already played three great matches, and you're playing best of five, so if you start bad, you can always come back. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT