THE ARTOIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 12, 2007
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Tell us your feelings as having won that match. 
 MARIN CILIC:  Well, first it was a very tough match and, of course, I can't be more happier to win against a player like Henman.  This is like very, very big victory for me. 

 Q.  Were you surprised to be invited to play in the tournament in the first place? 
 MARIN CILIC:  In the first place I was very surprised to get a wildcard.  I wasn't thinking that I'm going to get in.  I thought that I'm going to ask, but I didn't think that in one moment that I'm going to get it. 

 Q.  Obviously, Bob Brett twisted a few arms. 
 MARIN CILIC:  Yeah, I'm working in his academy and he's helping me in a lot of things.  He talked with the director and helped me in that field. 

 Q.  What actually is Bob doing for you? 
 MARIN CILIC:  Well, I'm practicing there in his academy, and he's helping me with the practice, with the arrangements of the tournament schedule and those stuff. 
 But he's not, I mean, traveling with me.  Just when I'm in his academy, and sometimes he calls me and we talk. 

 Q.  Do you know exactly how many matches you've played on grass in your career? 
 MARIN CILIC:  Well, last year I only played two ATPs, but before I played two junior tournaments, in Roehampton and Wimbledon.  Last year I played Halle and one tournament in The Netherlands, 's-Hertogenbosch.  Maybe 15 matches, a little more.  Between 15 and 20 matches. 

 Q.  How do you think Tim played?  Did you feel he was playing with confidence or did you see any problems? 
 MARIN CILIC:  Well, I mean, it's tough for me to say because I didn't watch him too many times on grass in live.  I don't know.  I don't think that he played the best he can.  It's obvious that this is the first-round match and it's tough to play always the best. 
 But in the beginning of the match, he was playing okay.  I was missing here and there some points, wasn't serving good, so he had a lot of chances from the baseline.  But later in the match, I was starting to serve much better, of course putting much more pressure on his serve. 

 Q.  Were you especially pleased with the quality of your passing shots today on big points? 
 MARIN CILIC:  Yeah, I mean, the grass I think fits for my game.  Today I had some ups and downs in the game, especially in the beginning of the second set where I think was the crucial stage to stay in the match and continue with the lead. 
 But in the end of second set, I tried to focus more on my serve, and it worked much better in the third set. 

 Q.  Do you think you have a chance of figuring in the Croatian Davis Cup team? 
 MARIN CILIC:  Well, I'm already in the team.  So, I mean, I think that I'm going to be in the team for the next tie with England here, with Great Britain.  So we'll see. 
 I mean, Ivan is going to play also.  Hopefully Mario.  He is still a little bit injured, but I think he's going to come back like in two, three weeks. 

 Q.  Is the latest suggestion he might play Wimbledon, Mario? 
 MARIN CILIC:  I'm not sure for that, but I can't say that for him.  I doubt because I think he didn't start to practice as hard as he needs to play a tournament like that. 

 Q.  For you in your past, playing Arnaud Clement, David Nalbandian, has helped you to get used to playing? 
 MARIN CILIC:  Of course, last year was my first year on the tour and I played against Nalbandian in Croatia for Davis Cup and against Blake in Bangkok and Robredo last year in The Netherlands.  That always helped me a lot. 
 This today match, I mean, it's a very big experience for me because I played three sets with Henman, who is pretty good player on grass.  So I think it's going to help me a lot. 

 Q.  When you woke up this morning, were you expecting a tougher game against Tim?  Did you think you had a chance because his confidence has been low lately? 
 MARIN CILIC:  Well, I knew he was very good player on grass.  I was just trying to be as relaxed as I can, to play my best, then to see what's going to happen in the match. 
 I think that I played very well.  I'm very satisfied with my game. 

 Q.  Gulbis beat you at the French Open.  When you're young, your career ahead, do you look at someone like him and expect that everyone expects him to beat you? 
 MARIN CILIC:  Of course, everyone has more pressure or less.  I think to play in your country, it's always the toughest.  You are always trying to go as far as you can and to also help the tournament to invite more people. 
 I mean, it's like that.  It happens that you don't play as best you can. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT