U.S. OPEN
September 3, 2018
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. CILIC/D. Goffin
7-6, 6-2, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. When you broke back in the first set, it seems something switched, and your level raised.  Did you feel this on the court, too?
MARIN CILIC: Yeah, I did.  I mean, it was decisive in the match definitely for me to come back in that first set.  I was starting to play better.  Just had a little bit slower start.  Also was not returning that well in that first part of the first set.
After that I felt I was playing better, moving better, returning much better, having also more chances in the tiebreak that I could have closed little bit earlier.  In the end, went quite long in the tiebreak.
It was extremely important to win first set today.  Very humid conditions, hot as well.  Obviously playing with David, who also likes to play long rallies as well, dictates the game, it was very important to win it.
After that I felt that he was slowing down his first serve.  I felt he must have had some problems with his shoulder, so that gave me a little bit more opportunities on the returns to try to create a bit more, to try to put pressure on him, which was the case.  In most of his service games, I was having some chances to break him or close to break him.  That was definitely a big part of it.
Q. When I say the name Kei Nishikori, what are the first things that come to mind about him as a player and opponent?
MARIN CILIC: Extremely a solid player from the back of the court.  Incredible backhand.  Great mover, as well.  He's got sweet timing of the ball.  Hitting it, for his size, incredibly quick, incredibly fast.  Always a pleasure to watch him.  He had a little bit of trouble with his injury on the wrist.  Great to see him playing this well again, enjoying his time on the court.
I watched him couple matches here, parts of it, obviously not full.  What I've seen, he's playing well.  It's going to be our fourth meeting so far in the US Open.  We had our tough battles.  I was little bit luckier on the finals when we played.  It was my day that day.
Hopefully I'm going to be also well-prepared for our next match, that I'm going to play another good one.
Q. After what happened in Wimbledon, is this US Open run a kind of relief or something you needed to do before the next season?
MARIN CILIC: Yes and no.  It's always good when you do it.  If you don't do it, you are turning around to some different things.  Life is like that.
So, you know, we are lucky in tennis that in a couple weeks there is another tournament.  You're always looking ahead for something else.  You can't regret that much.
I'm feeling good.  Had good tournaments in Toronto, Cincy.  Playing good here.  Also went through tough conditions, had some tough matches as well in the third round that went long.  Happy I played well again today, just giving myself another chance to keep improving, keep playing better.
Q. In Ashe Stadium, when you win a match, you're hitting those balls into the crowd, what is the experience like here and what are you trying to do?
MARIN CILIC: In one way it's funny, in the other it's great.  The crowd gets so much into it, to catch the ball.  We don't see that that much emotions and intensity in Europe or different places for catching the ball.  But it comes obviously from the baseball.  It's a lot of fun.  The crowd gets into it.  The atmosphere gets loud.  I enjoy that.
Q. What are you trying to do?
MARIN CILIC: I'm trying to find the loudest one, the most craziest fans in the stand to throw the ball.
Q. How would you describe the state of your game right now, what your expectation was coming in, and how have you met that expectation?
MARIN CILIC: State of the game was quite good.  I don't know if I'm going to say great, but very good.  Had good tournaments Toronto, Cincy, playing well on hard courts.  Lost both matches there to eventually winners, Novak and Rafa.
Coming here, I felt little bit more different conditions this year and last year compared to the years before.  I feel the ball was a bit slower, heavier.  I feel also there are a little bit more breaks of serve this year than usually.  I'm not sure, that's just my feeling.  I'm feeling good on the court and playing well, which is most important.
Conditions here I enjoy.  I like to play here.  The atmosphere was incredible the other night.  Today again.  Even though it's hot, humid, the people and the fans stay, and they are enjoying tennis, which we are appreciating so much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT