U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2018
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. CILIC/A. De Minaur   
4-6, 3-6, 6-3, 6-4, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What were your emotions the second after you finally converted your eighth match point?  
MARIN CILIC: You know, let's say it was just an incredible comeback also from Alex:  5-2 up for me, Love-40.  Two unbelievable points.  I had couple chances to finish it off.  I was just on the stretch on one forehand.  On the smash, he got it quite good.  A missed a volley, few more after that which were incredible.   
The atmosphere was very, very intense.  Everybody was on their feet.  2 a.m. in the morning, fifth set, 5-All:  it doesn't get better for the crowd, I guess.   
It was just incredible to find the composure, as well, also to stay focused, to stay in the moment, even though I missed so many opportunities there to finish it off, I stayed very focused.  I kept believing in my game.  Came up with some great shots in the last game.   
 Q.  I'm sure you had a lot of respect for Alex, knowing he's so young.  How much more respect do you have for him after this four-hour match, and his future?  
MARIN CILIC: He showed an incredible fighting spirit.  Throughout the match he was playing great tennis.  First two sets was great tennis from him.  He was moving extremely well.  He was getting some balls that were almost incredible to get, some passing shots, some running forehands.  So many great points from him in those first two sets.   
Later I started to play a bit better.  I was starting to serve also a bit better.  Just started to put more pressure on him.  But still, he was not backing off.   
Obviously that fifth set was, as well, very emotional from both sides.  I felt that he was also getting a little bit tired, but still he was pushing and pushing.  Big credit to him for staying in there, almost getting to the line.   
What separated us was a couple points, nothing else.   
 Q.  Your next opponent, David Goffin, what do you think about that?  
MARIN CILIC: I played several times.  We practiced also quite a lot of times.  We know each other extremely good.  He's a great guy.  Also great to see him playing that well.   
It's going to be tough matchup, absolutely.  Fourth round, he's playing good tennis.  Also here at the US Open, he likes the courts, he likes the conditions.   
For me still, I have to recover.  I have to get some sleep, get some food tomorrow back in my body, try to get back in two days, or actually tomorrow, back on the feet, just try to push myself again.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT