U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2018
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. CILIC/H. Hurkacz
6-2, 6-0, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How do you feel about the match?
MARIN CILIC: Feeling great.  I think as Grand Slams are going, first rounds, obviously extremely important to win comfortably in three sets.  Today was more than comfortable.  One of the most important things is keeping the high pressure.  When you get that lead in the match, just to keep high pressure, not let the opponent get some breaths, just to catch rhythm.
So I was really doing well with that, both beginning of the second set, also the beginning of the third set.  Returned really well throughout the match, put a lot of pressure on him.  Everything was working extremely good.  Extremely happy with the way I was playing.
Q. Do you feel like you're getting back to the point where you can perform your best?
MARIN CILIC: I think so.  What is great is that I had very consistent season.  Started great to the season.  Had some great results.  A little bit of injuries push me back.  But I was feeling I would play great tennis when I would get into the form.
Last few weeks was great.  I had good tournaments in Toronto and Cincy.  Opening match was not the best in the beginning, but later I found some good rhythm, and today continued to play great.  Seems I'm getting into much, much better rhythm, what's definitely making me very, very happy.
I know that these courts here are playing well for my game.  Conditions are good.  Obviously we can have extremely hot days like it was last couple days.  I'm just trying to focus on myself, focus on being very excited on the courts when I'm playing.  I think that gives me good advantage in the matches.  I'm playing good tennis, very aggressive.  I hope it's going to be working well next matches, too.
Q. To see the high-caliber playing, everybody here, how does it feel?
MARIN CILIC: I think we are all trying our best, pushing ourselves, even the top guys, Roger, Rafa, they are setting an example.  Also now Novak coming back, playing great.  I think there is a big group of players now that are very eager to win, very motivated.  We are all having different motivations and I think different goals.  In all terms, I think that's making these tournaments much more appreciative.  I think for the fans, there's a lot of great matches, as well.
On the other side, I feel they are also pushing me to be little bit better day after day, match after match.  I think that's what's most important part of playing at these Grand Slams, that you keep your level extremely consistent.  And also on some matches that maybe some opponents are not high-caliber opponents, but still you have to play great tennis, that you are keeping yourself in form.
I'm enjoying and playing well.  Definitely it's been exciting that this season I played so well, also looking that I had great results.  It's just pushing me more forward.
Q. What do you know about Alex de Minaur?
MARIN CILIC: I watched Alex more in this season.  I didn't watch him in the last seasons prior to this one.  I watched him a little bit in Australia.  He had an amazing summer over there, improving since then.  I didn't watch him this tournament here, didn't have a chance today.  He was just on the court before I went to the match.
I think he's, with his style, very consistent player, very tough physically as well, fast, plays great tennis.  Obviously very steady from the baseline, putting a lot of pressure, as well.  He's got nice, fighting spirit, which is nice to see with the youngsters.  Definitely going to be a good challenge for me.
I hope I play well.  It's the third round.  He also won his couple matches.  Today against Frances, tough matchup.  Definitely he's playing good tennis.  I hope I'm going to deliver really good match again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT