U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2018
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. CILIC/M. Copil
7-5, 6-1, 1-1 (ret.)
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Just talk a bit about the first set.  Obviously struggles, and you came back and was dominant.  Talk about the changes for you and how it went for you out there?
MARIN CILIC: Yeah, obviously a slow start.  Definitely the beginning, lost two of my service games.  I was just missing some easy balls, making some unforced errors that are not that usual for me.
Conditions definitely were extremely tough and very humid, very hot.  The ball was flying a bit more than usual, so I was having just more trouble to control it, especially in the beginning.
I just tried to focus towards the end of the first set to play every single point as good as I can, just to try to get into the rhythm and to obviously prepare myself as good as I can for the second set.  I was not expecting that I'm going to come back.  But I felt that I have to continue with -- actually to start playing better.
He was missing some first serves.  He was not having that great percentage on the serve.  I broke him the first time, held even -- he had two set points at the 5-2 game.  And then after that, I think was great returning day from that point on.  I felt that I was returning almost every single serve and he was not making too many first-serve balls.
I was very, very consistent off the back and just used that momentum really, really well.  Both at the end of the first set, started serving really good in the second set, and definitely that made it the day.
Q. The heat, just talk about the challenge of playing in that extreme heat.
MARIN CILIC: Yeah, very brutal.  I mean, plus you have to, as well, obviously, have in mind that you are under the time to play under the shot clock, so it's not easy to prepare even after some long rallies.  I mean, luckily today for me was not too many of those.
And both me and Marius are aggressive players.  We don't play too long rallies.  For some matches, having long rallies, it's definitely difficult.  It's very tough to get back the next point to continue to play.  And, you know, I can see also the fans are looking for the shade.
So definitely one of the most brutal days that we had so far this year since I'm here.  You know, that's what makes it special for US Open, to play under this big humidity.
Q. Did you ask about the shot clock issue and whether the shot clock was going to be enforced because of the conditions or anything like this, or did you just go out there and play?
MARIN CILIC: No, I was not -- I think the rules were set already few weeks ago.  I don't think they were planning to do any changes because of the heat.  I think, you know, the rule stays like it stays and, you know, that's it.
Q. There is no heat policy for the men's tour.  What do you think should be done, if anything, about that?
MARIN CILIC: Well, I think generally the supervisors of the tournaments are the ones who are taking decisions for that.  If the conditions are extreme, they gonna take decisions to protect the players.
I felt the heat was a little bit similar like that even in Cincinnati.  When Stan and Roger played when there was big lightning, they stopped, as well.  You know, there is no -- there is, I think, some much more broader rule than maybe what WTA has.  I think it's more connected with the supervisors and the referee to discuss and obviously take the decisions.
Q. What concerns do you have about the impact of the heat on yourself and the other players?
MARIN CILIC: Well, you've got to be prepared for that.  You've got to be ready.  And, I mean, mentally, physically, we all know that US Open can be like that.  There can be some difficult days like this.  There can be some windy days.  Even a little bit cooler days.  So you have to be ready.
And that's what makes it really special.  You know, if it happens that you play on one of these days, I guess tomorrow is going to be again very hot day, so, you know, it's for both parts of the draw.  It's not easy, but you have to deal with that.
Q. I know Alexander Zverev is a rival, competitor of yours.  He just linked up with Ivan Lendl.  Can you comment on that relationship and does that give Zverev a new glow in the locker room?  Does that make guys maybe fear him a little bit more or maybe talk about him a little bit more?
MARIN CILIC: I think that's obviously a great move for him, and I hope his relationship with Ivan is going to be a great one.  It's really nice for me, also, to see as young as Alexander is, that he's always looking to improve on his game, to adapt, to get better.  I believe Ivan can help him with that.
Still, it's a process.  You know, sometimes even some things don't work or they don't work as well from the beginning, but you never know.  I think for him it can be a great relationship.
You know, looking from the side, obviously Ivan had so much success with Andy, you know, bringing him that first Grand Slam trophy.  And also, you know, the success that they had on the tour, it's definitely amazing.  And with his knowledge from playing and from all his experience, definitely he can bring a lot to Sascha.
So, you know, wish him really all the best.
Q. Can you mention one or two things he might bring to Sascha, you feel?
MARIN CILIC: I don't know.  It's tough for me really to say.  You know, depends what Sascha is looking for.  Depends what also the mindset of Ivan is for his kind of game.
You know, I have not worked with Ivan, so it's, you know, a bit more difficult for me to say.
Q. The great results you have had here, final Grand Slam of the year and one you have prevailed in before.  Just talk about your level of confidence coming into the tournament.
MARIN CILIC: I think the level of confidence, it's quite good.  I just feel that the balls are different this year and last year comparing to years before.  They are much more heavier and slower.  The conditions are a bit slower.  I don't think that suits as good as it was suiting me those couple years ago.  But still I have to adjust to the conditions.  It's for everyone the same.
Hopefully I'm going to get better and better match by match.  I always enjoy to play here.  It's one of my favorite Grand Slams, the one where I had the best results even before I won it.
So I'm hoping that I can play great tennis and we'll see how long I can go.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT