WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 18, 2018
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. DJOKOVIC/M. Cilic   
6-4, 3-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Was this match one that got away, or was it one that your opponent took from you?  
MARIN CILIC: I would say it differently.  I wouldn't say it in that way.   
It was big battle, definitely tough conditions, very hot, very humid, very different than all the matches that I have played here this week.  It wasn't easy to adjust in that from the beginning of the match.   
Second set was very good quality from my side.  I was serving really well, returning well.  I think Novak just dropped the level a bit, and I lifted.  That was the case.   
And third set, especially those first six, seven games, was high-quality tennis from both sides.  I was serving really well, probably best serving performance in the week in that third set.   
And still, he made a few unbelievable deep returns, couple points he played unbelievably well from defense, and passing on the break point was just nothing wrong with that.   
But just amazing performance by him.  In those critical points he lifted in those moments, and that earned him the victory.   
But definitely hats off to him for a big battle.  But I'm also quite satisfied with the performance.  It was, as I said, very grueling conditions.  I stayed in there for two-and-a-half hours, and, you know, not much was separating us.  Definitely a tough match for both.   
 Q.  With the heat today, it felt like the clock was more of a factor maybe than it has been in other matches I've seen in the past couple of weeks where they have used it.  Did it feel different for you, the presence of the clock, when it was hotter and more humid than it was in previous matches?  
MARIN CILIC: Not as much.  I think I got used to it just on couple occasions, especially first point of the game.  By the time the balls travel to the side of the court of the server, I felt I was just slightly a little bit more in the rush than usual.   
But otherwise, it was okay, you know.  And when it's like this anyway, you can't get enough breath by the time you serve.  So, you know, I felt it was a little bit quicker than I would play usually, but still, you know, it was okay.  I got used to it, so it was not much of a big task to do.   
 Q.  You pushed Novak into some difficult circumstances today.  Couple times he helped himself also with some double faults.  But in those moments, he will step on the accelerator instead of back off.  What's that like for you?  I mean, do you think about that at all when you kind of put him in a tight spot but you know he's going to fire back even harder?  
MARIN CILIC: You know, when you get into the match with him, I feel that, you know, I know that he's gonna be mentally very strong.  Also moving-wise, returning-wise, as well, he's one of the best guys on the tour with that.   
He plays every point really, really tough.  He had obviously some misses today and he, on some occasions, slowed it up and down.  That's due to conditions.  It was very hot.  The court was playing also fast.  You know, but still I know that mentally and physically he's gonna be there and you need to take it away from him; not, I don't think on many occasions, he's going to give it to you.   
I also want to say that the tournament wasn't in my favor also putting me on three matches on Stadium 3.  The conditions are completely different there.  I would have preferred at least that I played one match on grandstand, which I feel is much more similar to center court.  I felt I was just slightly in a disadvantage just starting the match like that and maybe took me a little bit more adjustment to do at the beginning of the match.   
But, you know, still not taking anything from Novak.  He deserved it definitely in the end.   
 Q.  Going into New York where you have won, do you feel that you should be one of the favorites there, that you should be on center court all the time?  Or would you rather be sort of an underdog, a little bit under the radar?  What's your mentality going into that?  
MARIN CILIC: I feel with my tennis that it's on a good level.  These two weeks have helped me to position myself well to prepare really well.  Had tough matches here this week and last week, as well.   
I think coming to the Grand Slam, that's what you want.  Always for me that was the case, especially last several years.  When I was feeling like that, I was feeling very confident, very good coming into the Grand Slam.   
I don't know.  I wouldn't put myself as a favorite.  Rafa is playing well.  Roger, as well.  Novak is playing great, too, and there are a lot of guys that are playing great tennis.  For me, I'm feeling comfortable at the situation where I am, and I feel that I'm going to have another good shot at the US Open.   
 Q.  For a tall guy, you have a pretty complete game.  I'm sure you just make some small adjustments.  But have you ever considered something like the SABR like what Roger did here a few years ago?  
MARIN CILIC: Not really no, (smiling).   
 Q.  Novak has a chance to become the first guy tomorrow to win all nine Masters events, which no one has done before.  Winning all nine, what kind of accomplishment would that be?  How do you put that in context of career slams and other different things that people have accomplished?  
MARIN CILIC: Yeah, yeah.  Well, he accomplished the Grand Slam, which is incredible to do.  You know, to do this, you know, nobody in the history has done it.  So just tells you how consistent he is, how his tennis is, and also how his mentality as a player on the court is, just relentless and always pushing himself.   
So he's one of the best guys on the tour with that, and obviously with tennis he's playing great again, and, you know, hats off to him and wish him luck.   
 Q.  Do you think it's harder to win nine Masters events than four Grand Slams?  
MARIN CILIC: You can ask him.   
 Q.  Just before you came in here, Novak was talking about how, because he grew up in Serbia with the war and everything there, he had to overcome these hardships and didn't have a lot of support early.  You grew up in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Zagreb, as well?  
MARIN CILIC: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  Do you have some special relationship with Novak over that?  Do you feel also that you had to overcome, you know, difficulties just based on where you came from?  
MARIN CILIC: Yeah, I'm having really good relationship with Novak.  He's a great guy.  Always looking to promote the game, help everyone as he can.   
I think he's just amazing athlete from our part of the world and great role model.  So that's amazing thing, you know, for kids, as well, to look up to.   
But, you know, I had my own difficulties when growing up.  I wouldn't say that war was stopping me in my improvements and possibilities.  I had also some difficult moments, and family had to support me as much as they could.  You know, as a lot of guys on the tour, I think, have went through some tough moments, I went, as well.  You know, because of that, much more appreciative of where I am.  Enjoy my tennis.  I give my best every single day.  You know, just grateful that I got this opportunity and today I am using it as good as I can.   
 Q.  And where are you from?  
MARIN CILIC: Bosnia and Herzegovina.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT