FEVER-TREE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2018
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. CILIC/G. Muller   
4-6, 6-3, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How difficult was that match coming from a set down?  
MARIN CILIC: It was.  It was difficult.  Opened up nicely.  Had two break points, 15-40, and I had a good hit, couple returns.  But Gilles held that serve.   
And then after that, on the game where he broke me, he connected really well, few returns.  I didn't serve that well.  I was break down, and it was extremely difficult to dig that set back.   
He served really, really good consistently, and, you know, very tricky with left hand.  He was hitting good spots everywhere.   
It was definitely not easy.  But I upped a little bit my serve from beginning of the second set.  Didn't give him many chances on the return, and that just pushed me to stay in the match and to put back pressure on him.   
Obviously that gave me few more chances on the returns.  I got that break, and sort of things opened up a little bit more for me.  Started from that point to play a little bit better and even, you know, making few extra returns, making pressure all the time on him.   
I was quite solid.  Really happy with the way I pulled it from one set down.   
 Q.  When you're obviously playing someone so strong on the serve, how much does that play in your mind?  
MARIN CILIC: It does, because you just can't let yourself have actually lapses in your focus and concentration.  You know, I just didn't serve so well in that one of the games in that first set, and he played two, three returns great.  And you are break down, and 10, 15 minutes later you are set down.   
Very difficult.  Even before the match, coming into it, I know Gilles is playing great on grass.  We had tough matches last year, so it was not easy also to prepare.   
 Q.  You seem to have become much more vocal in your matches than you used to be.  Is that a conscious choice of yours?  Does it increase your motivation?  
MARIN CILIC: Yeah, I think it gives me good energy.  I think it's also a good part and important part of playing on grass, the energy that you have.  You know, you don't have many chances.  You know, a little bit similar like in doubles that you can see the guys, you know, usually have good energy on the court, and then looking for those opportunities, trying to, you know, use every single opportunity as good as they can.   
That's one of the things that I'm trying to do and, you know, just lift myself up to be focused every single point.   
 Q.  You have had many epic battles with Sam, especially on grass.  What is it about that matchup that creates exciting tennis?  And why have you been able to come out every time on top?  
MARIN CILIC: Yeah, well, both of us obviously can play high quality tennis.  Usually we do, especially this time of the year on grass.  We played I believe once maybe here in Queen's and couple times in Wimbledon.  Last year, as well.   
You know, both of us are great players, great, you know, hitters off the ball, serving big.  And there is not much that differentiates us.   
But somehow I was the one who was sort of, you know, coming with victories, and maybe because of a little bit more solid game on the return -- both of us possess great serves -- and that can make a big difference or that small difference.  You know, having that in mind even like today, you know, just that, you know, little bit of energy or just being ready for the opportunities, you know, I think that can definitely make a difference.   
 Q.  (Question about milestone win at Queen's.)  Is this sort of like a home tournament for you?  
MARIN CILIC: Yeah, I would say so.  I've been coming here since 2007, every single year, and enjoying it.  You know, had great success even though the tournament is extremely strong every single year.   
You know, now that we have in last couple years the draw that is shortened to 32, you can see already the matches, tough matches from the first round.   
So it's always a pleasure for me to play here.  I think it's very special as every single match is a full crowd, so it makes it even more interesting.   
 Q.  We have had no rain yet this year.  
MARIN CILIC: Yeah.   
 Q.  Do you find the courts playing any differently?  Big servers are producing really good results this year.  
MARIN CILIC: Yeah, I think the courts play quite the same as last year.  I don't think having it without rain made it slower or faster.  I think the courts are playing good.  Let's not call the rain to come (smiling).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT