ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2018
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. CILIC/H. Hurkacz
6-2, 6-2, 6-7, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. You cruised through those first two sets.  What was the turning point in the third?
MARIN CILIC: Just the beginning of the third set, I felt that I just took the pedal off the gas and just gave him a little bit more room to breathe.  I lost my serve.  I didn't play that game quite good.  Then I broke back.
But, you know, I had some chances.  Even had a match point at 5-4, I believe and just -- or 6-5.  I forgot what it was.
But, you know, constantly I felt like I was close to break.  I just felt like I was not returning as good as I can and just missed some returns, especially in some critical moments.
And then the fourth set he was serving well.  I was also serving quite good.  And, you know, there was not many opportunities, but lucky I finished it in a good way.
Q. How are you feeling about moving on the clay and your form in general right now?
MARIN CILIC: I'm feeling good.  I feel that -- you know, I think the level I could play slightly better.
Maybe just out of these two matches it was two good-serving guys, and also there was not much rhythm from both of them.  They were both trying to finish off the rallies quite fast.
But overall feeling good.  I'm hitting the ball well, moving well.  I'm hoping that it's going to get better and better.
Q. How important is it when you get down not to let frustration get to you.  How do you stay relaxed and calm in those moments?
MARIN CILIC: Well, I still need to learn that over here.
But, you know, just you have to keep positive, keep at your game.  You know, obviously, also the game plan, what you have.  You know, I've got quite a big experience on the Grand Slam level, knowing that I can believe, as well, in my physical ability to come back also if I'm a set down.
But still you have to show that on the court and also with the game to step it up.
Q. It seems as though you always play with passion and commitment.  How do you make sure you channel that in the correct way when you're on the court?
MARIN CILIC: Yeah, I'm a positive person, so I'm trying to use those positive emotions just slightly better just to push me a little bit more.
You know, there are many times during the match or matches where, you know, mentally you might be just a little bit more tired, or physically.  So you just have to push yourself.
There is no coach on the court just to tell you, you know, keep on going.  So you have to be positive yourself and even sometimes negative.  Negative also just maybe wakes you up and helps you to play better.
Q. Can I just ask you, what do you mean by the negative side?  How does that make you play better?
MARIN CILIC: You know, even if you -- like, today, I was trying constantly to be positive, positive, and that was, you know, my mindset.
But then even, you know, at some point, just to wake myself up, I let frustrations go out a bit.  And, you know, actually that helped me to release and to, you know, feel maybe a little bit stronger and to go for my shots.
Q. Obviously, Rafa is the favorite here at Roland Garros again.  But you are one of the other favorites.  How does that make you feel and do you feel like you are one of the favorites here as well?
MARIN CILIC: I feel so.  I'm playing well.  I'm feeling great on the court.  You know, the results in last 12 months have showed that I'm also -- I have that ability to win Grand Slams.
So I'm really looking forward to the rest of the tournament and hoping that I'm going to continue to play well and to challenge the best guys.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT