ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2018
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. CILIC/J. Duckworth
6-3, 7-5, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Tough match, but you were good on serve, weren't you?
MARIN CILIC: Yeah.  Yeah, I was serving really good today.  I believe I had quite a high percentage of first serve and also winning points after my serve was quite big, except that little bit of a loss of concentration at 5-4 when I was serving for the second set and he came back.  It was just a little bit difficult to get back straight at it.
We didn't know when we were going back.  We could have been waiting hour, hour and a half.  But it went quick.
Overall, I felt good on the court.  It was just slightly different than what we're used to, playing on the rain for more than hour and a half.
So that was a bit difficult.  But overall felt good.  The rhythm was good hitting from the back of the court well.  It was, I would say, a little bit more difficult to return.  He was serving well.  In general, it felt really good.
Q. There was rain obviously throughout the match today, and the weather forecast over the next few days is poor, as well.  The referees and the umpires make the decision on when play should start and when it should be paused.  How should the players be consulted in situations?  Because I know you had some dialogue with the chair umpire today.  How should those issues be resolved, do you think?
MARIN CILIC: Oh, I don't know.  Just needs maybe a little bit more communication between, you know, the umpires or supervisors for the players.  The difficult thing is that the balls are getting wet constantly, even though not necessarily from the court but when they go hit the fence or, you know, the covers are behind the court, they are constantly wet.  So, you know, you're playing, as long as you are playing, the balls are getting bigger and heavier.
So it's not easy, and, you know, it's the way it is.  You know, we have to adjust.
But for sure, there needs to be a little bit more communication.
Q. During those interruptions, what do you do to stay focused?
MARIN CILIC: Just, you know, calm myself.  I got something to eat.  Stretched a bit.  And went back for a warmup again.  You know, that's regular things.  Nothing special.
Even we were thinking that the break could be longer.  You know, guys were saying, the referees, that between 1:00 and 2:00 p.m. could be a bigger rain, as well.  So we were not sure.
When we came back, it was just a little bit out of the blocks quickly.
Q. Nadal is playing at the moment.  He looks like he's going to come through.  And he was a bit shaky on serve last night.  Simone took advantage of that.  If your serve is as good as it is today, how do you think you can trouble him if you're to meet in the later rounds?
MARIN CILIC: Yeah, I mean, it's still very far.  If we're going to meet it's going to be in the semis, so still a lot of work to do.
Rafa is always really consistent and getting his rhythm through the couple matches.  He's going to be playing definitely better and better.
Q. You said you could meet Rafa in the semis.  Does that mean that even from the first round you have looked ahead at the draw, looked at some of the players you could be matching up against in the future rounds and how you might approach that?
MARIN CILIC: Yeah.  I have seen the draw.  Obviously, you know, it stays in your mind.  But, you know, I'm just focused on every single match.  You can't get ahead of yourself.  You don't know who's gonna win, who's gonna lose.  The Grand Slam is big tournament, a lot of things happening.  My focus is just to continue to play well and go match by match.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT