INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 18, 2018
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. CILIC/P. Carreno Busta
6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. This is your very first time in a semifinal here in Rome.  What's your feeling about that?
MARIN CILIC: Feeling is great.  My first semifinal on clay in a Masters 1000 event.  So that's a good achievement.  I was waiting many years for it happening, to make it.  Definitely a happy moment for sure.
And the victory today, it was a great match.  Serving incredibly well, both on first and both on second serve.  That was extremely important.  Gave me a lot of freedom in my game.  When I'm serving that well, everything else is coming a little bit more naturally.
I would say that returning, I give myself few chances and managed to break.  I wouldn't say it was perfect, also, from the return.  But, you know, it's difficult to have an extremely perfect match in the quarterfinals.
Anyway, Pablo is very solid player, I knew that.  And I prepared for the match to have a tough match.  And it happened to be sort of a little bit easier, maybe, than what I expected.  But that was also because of the level that I produced and the game that I played.
Q. You also mentioned that it's your first Masters 1000 semifinal on clay.  What's about, is that mental approach, physical approach?  What's the difference, do you think, the past and now?
MARIN CILIC: I think I improved as a player over the years on clay.
Last year was -- I found a really good combination of training and also preparing for the matches.  And maybe slightly changed my game on clay.
And this year, it was easier for me to get into clay.  I didn't play, unfortunately, too many matches.  I got injured in Monte-Carlo, lost there in the quarterfinals.  And, you know, came here sort of without matches, without preparation, and also wasn't sure how it was going to go.
But, you know, from match to match, I'm feeling better and better.  And, you know, this my feeling on clay is probably the best that I had ever.
Still, I feel I can improve also physically with some movement.  Not having played for a few weeks and not having that many matches, obviously, is a bit more difficult at this stage.  But, I'm adjusting every single day.
Q. Probably a bit of a stretch, but you've made finals in two of the last three Slams.  Do you think you could actually make a Round 2 finals in Paris? Do you think you have that in you?
MARIN CILIC: You know, still quite far, quite far for me.
This week and at the moment I'm still focused to play day by day, listen to my body.  You know, I'm still feeling that I can improve physically.  And just to be at the top level, that's going to give me the most confidence.
I feel the game is there.  I'm hitting the ball really well, but it's also a combination of putting that physical part into the points.  So, that's critical.
I always felt good on clay.  But, you know, last year and this year, I feel that it went slightly better.  And, you know, can give me great result in French Open.  We'll see, you know.
Q. But you start to play on clay, was first surface for you .
MARIN CILIC: Yes.
Q. So then you change your game because of your serve was working better on cement or on hard court.  But, you don't forget how to play on clay.
MARIN CILIC: Yeah.
Q. So, finally, I mean, it is easier for a European player to play against American solid player on clay.
MARIN CILIC: Yeah.
Q. So finally, in your mind, you have this idea.  I mean, in some part of the mind.
MARIN CILIC: Yeah.
Absolutely.
Q. Yeah.  Finally, at the end of this thought, what do you need exactly physically to go to the next level, more matches, or is it more so a lot more a problem of mental, to believe more in yourself on clay?
MARIN CILIC: You know, I talked about adjusting myself and finding new combination on clay.  I thought that, you know, through the years I learn also what works the best for me in my own game.  Also, what kind of practices, what kind of trainings, and what kind of preparations.
I think I found, you know, good formula in preparations.  And that is giving me better confidence, better belief on clay.
And this, for the second part of the question, you know, for me definitely is difficult, even coming here.  I was not feeling 100% with my knee.  I was not sure how it was going to hold up.  And it was a few questions in my mind.
But now, day by day everything's getting better.  So, I feel it's gonna also get much better.  And that's very --  My physical part can improve, as well.
Q. You have Sascha Zverev or David Goffin coming up tomorrow.  Can I get your estimation of both players?  Both play well on clay but are fairly different in their physicality.  Sascha probably is a bit closer to you in terms of how you play.  But can you preview that a little bit?
MARIN CILIC: Uh-huh.  I would say two complete -- two very different styles of game.
From one end you have Goffin, who is extremely quick, has both sides, forehand and backhand very solid.  He creates the points really well from his forehand.  Likes to play on clay, moves extremely good.  Also returns well.
Then on the other side, you have Sascha,  who is serving really good, great backhand.  Really, really solid off his forehand.
I think it's going to be very, very entertaining match.  I don't know if they played before.  But definitely, I think both are playing really well at the moment.  So, it's going to be interesting just to see how both of them are gonna react to different, you know, kind of game.
And for me, definitely looking at their match, both of them, obviously tough players.  I played several times with them, always tough matches.  And, you know, still focus for me to keep going with my own game and try to lift up again tomorrow.
Q. Coming back to clay, thinking about Davis Cup, if you have to choose a surface to play, you choose clay most of the times.
MARIN CILIC: Depends against who.
Q. Yeah, yeah.  But you know what I mean, if you have to play against the USA or --
MARIN CILIC: Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, I still feel, you know, quite comfortable on clay.  And even in conditions on clay sometimes can be faster, sometimes a little bit slower.  So, that's always an advantage for European guys to use.  You know, we grew up on clay, and that's something that we adjust a little bit quicker than Americans or maybe Australian players.  So, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT