AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2018
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. CILIC/K. Edmund   
6-2, 7-6, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How happy are you with the way you were serving tonight?  You seemed to be hitting unbelievably well.  
MARIN CILIC: Thank you.  I'm quite happy with the performance.  Obviously when playing in the semifinals when there is a lot at stake and not losing a serve during the match is obviously big.   
I started not as I would want to.  I was two break points down in the first game, and those first three, four games were not the best level, but I think I just smoothed it around and I found my way and I played my way into the match after those three, four games.   
It was obviously a little bit different match than against Rafa.  Just slightly different intensity.  Not as much rallies and not as much rhythm as in that match.  We didn't hit too, too many balls off the back of the court.  That second set was relying more or less on the serve and first shot who's gonna be in control.   
But luckily and also I played great tiebreaker, very focused to win every single point and just managed it really, really nicely.   
 Q.  How are you feeling here?  At Wimbledon you had some physical issues.  You were in tears.  You couldn't give your best.  Are you feeling fit to go out there on Sunday?  
MARIN CILIC: I am.  I'm feeling really, really good physically, even though I had few matches that went more than three hours.  But overall, feeling really good.  I think I played great tournament so far with my level of tennis.   
I think I improved it comparing to end of the last year.  I'm playing much, much more aggressive.  I'm feeling that I am, for most of the shots, hitting them really, really good.  From the return, moving, forehand, backhand, serving, I think everything is in good, solid spot.  Feeling really excited about the final, too.   
 Q.  If you had to say that you had a weakness until, let's say, one year ago, two years ago, which was that?  
MARIN CILIC: I didn't weakness (smiling).   
 Q.  You're getting better then in what?  
MARIN CILIC: I think in tennis, in general, if you are not improving, you are getting worse as a player, because everyone else is improving.  The game is improving.  There are a lot of youngsters coming up playing great tennis, so you have to always find a way to get better and better.   
You can see with many guys at the top, especially Roger, that he has been adapting really well to the game and to the opponents and to the players at the top.  Always challenging him to get better and better.   
Same thing is for me.  I did good analysis I think of the last season.  Found some things that can improve my game, some small details in the game that I focused on.  It's working really nicely in the start of this year.   
 Q.  In what way the very tough and sad experience you had in Wimbledon final could help you on Sunday?  
MARIN CILIC: In one way, I had to experience as one amazing experience in a final and one not so amazing.  So I had both emotionally great and not great.   
I think it's gonna help me to stay focused on what I have to do.  You know, now I have two days off.  It's slightly different of the routine that I had during all the tournament, but I have to stay focused mentally and to be ready from the first point on the final.  It's big motivation for me to play that final and obviously to win, and I'm feeling really good with my game, and so hopefully I can have a great match and also great energy on the court.   
 Q.  When someone asks a player if he would like to play one player or another, nobody answers because they say, Oh, it's the same.  The winner is the most difficult.  But this case is completely different.  You have Federer and the other one Chung.  Honestly, talk to us.  Come on.  
MARIN CILIC: I would like to play against the player that I would beat in the final (smiling).   
 Q.  Oh, don't be...  Talk to us like if you would talk to your brother.  
MARIN CILIC: I tell my brother the same (smiling).   
Well, it's obvious.  I mean, I think you have Roger as a player who has been one of the most successful at these stages of Grand Slam, and also at Grand Slam level I think his performances were such a long period of time, especially when it gets to quarterfinals, semifinals, finals, he's getting better and better and better and playing great tennis.  So with him it's always a big challenge.   
With Chung, I played him few times, and looking at his game, I think he has improved a lot in the last 6 to 12 months.  And he has, I think, matured, I think, playing really, really good tennis, entertaining to watch.  Amazing defensive player and also hitting big from both sides.   
You know, it's no answer, again, for you, but I'm going to focus on myself.   
 Q.  We know the answer.  
MARIN CILIC: I didn't say anything.   
 Q.  As a young player, you have been everywhere.  First practiced in France.  And of course in Croatia first.  
MARIN CILIC: No, Sanremo.   
 Q.  How long did you stay in Italy and how much did you learn over there?  
MARIN CILIC: I learned a lot.  Everything, everything, the Italian way.  I was working with Bob Brett and Bob had academy over there.  Our relationship was lasting over nine years, and Bob has teached me a lot about tennis, about, you know, tennis life, and I am the player that I am today also because of him.   
It was great to see him again over here.  He was at last few matches watching and supporting me.  It was very nice experience.  I think I learned a lot, and Bob is big, has a huge knowledge about the game, and he pushed me in the right direction.   
 Q.  If you would face Federer in the final, how much is it like a revenge for you to actually try and get the better of him in the final?  
MARIN CILIC: I'm not looking at it as a revenge.  I mean, it was on me that I couldn't give my best in Wimbledon.  And that happens.  With Rafa towards the end of the match, and even today I think with Kyle, I think he had either small injury or fatigue, I had no idea, towards the end of the match.  Those things happen.  I mean, it's that kind of a sport.   
But for me it's great to again be in the final, giving myself another opportunity to win a Grand Slam.  I'm playing very good tennis, and definitely very excited for the rest of 2018.   
 Q.  Do you think your game is at its peak now?  
MARIN CILIC: I think overall consistently I'm playing better.  I think I am performing better when you look at match after match.   
I think in US Open that was just amazing tennis that I played.  But it was more difficult for me to keep it for a long period of time.  Now I feel that with this kind of tennis that I can keep it throughout the season, and that's my goal, in the end of the year that I look back and that I am happy about the performances on a consistent level.   
 Q.  You prefer to play Federer in the final?  
MARIN CILIC: Answer for yourself (smiling).   
 Q.  You play for Fila, which is a company run also by Martin Mulligan, another Australian.  You have a lot of Australians around.  Do you feel any support here?  And becoming Korean?  Do you know anything about this?  
MARIN CILIC: I'm not 100% sure, so it's tough for me to say.  Martin is amazing guy, and he has had a great, successful career in tennis.  It's always great to talk to him and even listen to him what he has to say.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT