AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2018
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. CILIC/P. Carreno Busta   
6-7, 6-3, 7-6, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You had so many chances in the first set and losing it, and you still found a way to forget about it.  How was it mentally out there?  
MARIN CILIC: Difficult.  I should have won the first.  I should have lost the third.  I should have won quicker the fourth.   
So it was up and down a lot.  It was difficult match.  First, the conditions today were a little bit more humid than all the other days before.  And plus from the other side of the net, Pablo was playing really good, very solid, and served really good today, I would say, and backed it up with good groundstrokes from the back.   
He's got a very solid game.  He keeps the ball quite low, very solid off the backhand.   
It was not easy.  But especially after losing that first set just being mentally there and knowing that, you know, physically it can go three, four hours.  But I was staying in the moment and just trying to focus on what I have to do.  It was obviously a little bit of a tricky situation as I was 5-2 up, lost that set.  The things changed a little bit, and I had to get back to my plan, get back to what I was doing well, even he started to play better in that moment.  He started to lift up his game.   
So it was a little bit of a challenge in that way.   
 Q.  How pleased are you with your game after four matches now?  
MARIN CILIC: I'm very pleased.  I felt that I played all four matches on a good quality.  You know, today was, if looking some small details, I was a little bit up and down on some service games, and he was returning quite good.  From both doing so, in that case it was a little bit more difficult.   
But overall I'm feeling good with the game.  I'm hitting the ball really nicely, taking chances, playing aggressive, you know, taking the ball as early as I can.   
So overall, feeling good.   
 Q.  Do you think this kind of battle, digging deep, to win at the end, it can only be the best preparation for the next round?  Either Rafa or Schwartzman, it's going to be tough.  
MARIN CILIC: Of course.  When you win everything, it's good (smiling).   
But, you know, in a way, you know, there are good parts, there are not good parts, as well.  Depends how you look at it.   
For me, the biggest focus that I have to keep is trying to obviously keep my game in that level and not to change much, not to play around.  I think I played really good in these four matches, playing good tennis, and serving really good.  Had a good percentage of first serves in all four matches.  So, you know, with that I just have to keep going and believe in that.   
 Q.  That's 100 Grand Slam wins today.  How do you measure your career?  What matters most to you?  
MARIN CILIC: Keep improving.  Obviously the results are the ones that we look at, but, you know, I'm trying to improve, you know, every single day, every single week as to be as good as I can.   
You know, just the journey that we all take as players, it's individual for everyone.  Then after the career, I want to be able to look back and say I gave it all and I used the opportunities that I had as a player the best I could.  So, you know, trying to do it every single day the best I can.   
 Q.  Can you tell us what happened in the second set when the ball boys came on with the towels?  Was the court wet?  
MARIN CILIC: It started to rain.   
 Q.  It was seriously wet, was it?  
MARIN CILIC: Yes.   
 Q.  You're used to the second weeks of Grand Slams, but is there still a thrill, like, Oh, I have been that far already, or I want to go all the way?  Is it still exciting for you to get to this stage of a Grand Slam?  Because you have been there many times.  Or is it just being focused to go to the title?  Or is it still exciting for you to get there?  
MARIN CILIC: Yeah, it is very exciting.  I'm enjoying how I'm playing.  Playing well.  You know, I think I did good in the offseason and, you know, those things are paying off on the court, which is a great thing.  Gives me good confidence, good excitement on the court.  You know, when you are winning the matches, it just pushes you a little bit more, believing that you believe in the things that you work.   
You know, I'm not taking for granted, you know, making to the second week of a Grand Slam, of any Grand Slam.  Trying to use the opportunities the best I can.   
 Q.  What did you work on this winter?  
MARIN CILIC: Partly in Zagreb and partly in Monaco.   
 Q.  But on your game?  
MARIN CILIC: On my game?  I just changed slightly some technical details in my serve.  We analyzed it a little bit in the end of the year, just went through it a little bit more, you know, in that stage when you have a bit extra time.  You try to fiddle around with the things to see if they're gonna work.  I'm feeling well with that.   
And also, from the game, I think from the shots I'm just being a little bit more aggressive, taking a little bit more chances and I think I'm trying to play as well a little bit closer inside the court.  When I have the chance that I'm going for the shots, you know, when playing against really good defenders, retrievers, it's difficult for me to keep the ball in play for 10, 15 shots.  I'm just trying to improve in that part.   
 Q.  This has been a period of change in tennis in terms of rules.  The warmup clock.  Next year it seems like there is going to be only 16 seeds.  What do you think of this period in general?  Are you a traditionalist or do you like how things are changing?  
MARIN CILIC: I'm a traditionalist, but I like these small changes that happened.  There were a lot of rumors that we gonna have also a shot clock.  They removed it.  They just kept it for the quallies.  I think it would have been good for the fans and for the players, as well, just to adapt to that.   
You know, I believe it's gonna come sooner or later.  Doesn't matter.  But it's gonna come to tennis, and, you know, those things are good.  I think they're gonna bring more excitement to the fans.   
For the 16 seeds, I don't see much the benefit, you know, for the Grand Slams.  The draw is huge, and I think that the draw, the seeding should be the same as now.   
 Q.  Do you think there is a danger of tennis kind of losing its soul if it goes too far in changing things?  
MARIN CILIC: I don't think it's gonna go too far.  You know, those are small details that, you know, governing bodies are trying to bring into tennis to bring more, you know, excitement, more younger population following tennis.   
We'll see.  You know, time will tell.   
 Q.  Even as a Grand Slam champion, do you believe you're flying under the radar this year?  
MARIN CILIC: I don't know (smiling).  I'm not under the radar.  I just played, so...   
I wouldn't say -- I don't know.  I mean, there are a lot of guys in the draw.  Still Roger, Rafa, Nick playing tonight, Novak, a lot of big stars of the game.  But, you know, I'm just trying to focus on myself.   
 Q.  How has a feeling like facing a player like Rafa changed compared with before, say, the US Open when you won?  
MARIN CILIC: Well, generally, you know, throughout my career, I knew that if I'm playing well, if I'm top of my game, that I can challenge most of the guys on the tour and, you know, with the win at the US Open that, you know, I believe it just became stronger.  I know I believe in my own game, I believe in what I'm doing.  I think I'm moving the right direction.  You know, it's obviously a big challenge playing them, but that's what we also work for on the trainings.   
 Q.  Every year you have a very good success after winning the US Open title.  Keeping in top 10 and Masters and final Davis Cup and last year final Wimbledon.  How about this year?  Do you have some specific goal for this year?  
MARIN CILIC: My goal in this year is to win a Grand Slam.  One or more would be good (smiling).   
Obviously looking at the rankings, last year I reached No. 4 and No. 5, finished season at the No. 6.  You know, it could have been in top 5, as well.   
But looking at this year, my goal is to finish in top 5.  You know, it's a big challenge, but, you know, I'm improving every single year.  You know, that's a challenge that I want to succeed in.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT