NITTO ATP FINALS
November 14, 2017
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. SOCK/M. Cilic
5-7, 6-2, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. It has to be really frustrating for you those two matches because you had it, and each time it's slipping for your fingers.  Were you thinking about that today?
MARIN CILIC: Yeah, it is frustrating, absolutely.  Also today, just beginning of the third set I played well.  Also on my service game where I lost my serve, just missed couple of shots.  I did good decisions.  I just missed two forehands.  He made one great passing shot off a run.
These things can happen.  But obviously the match went till the tiebreaker.  I didn't have any chances until the end of that third set.  He didn't, as well.  That tiebreak, it was quite a few close points.  Him getting that unbelievable let cord, one backhand down the line that he hit on 5-4, he didn't hit many down-the-line winners during the match.  That was a big shot to hit at that stage.
Yeah, definitely disappointing in both matches in that third set, being in a good position, putting myself in a good position.  But, yeah, unfortunately I didn't close it.
Q. I know you were half joking at the launch party when you said, 10 more days to go.  Are you sort of feeling pretty jaded now?
MARIN CILIC: Well, yes and no.  It has been this long stretch.  These last couple months, I've played a lot of matches as well.  Still it didn't bother me much.  I was quite motivated in both matches.  I felt that I played well.  I know that I wasn't playing the best, especially in those critical moments I was not coming up with some great shots.
It's also end of the season.  I think both Alex, and Jack today, they were both as well a little bit up and down with their game, producing some great shots, great serves, some great shots off the run.
Overall, I would say it's quite open in both matches.  That was just a little bit unfortunate that I wasn't able to close.  I was putting myself in a really nice position.
Q. What do you think of Jack's potential?
MARIN CILIC: Yeah, I think Jack is playing really good.  He had a really nice season, especially the beginning, now the end.  We played now couple times.  Once was five-setter, now came to the tiebreaker.  It could have went also to my side.
But overall I think he's playing good tennis, quite aggressive.  When he's playing well, he's definitely very dangerous.
Q. Given the format of this tournament, you're still not actually out yet if Zverev beats Federer tonight.  Will you be cheering him on, hoping for him to win?
MARIN CILIC: I'll definitely watch.  But, you know, I don't know who I'm going to support.  Anyway, I'm just going to try to focus on this last match, to play Roger, to still continue to play well.
I am frustrated, a little bit disappointed with both losses.  But it's part of the sport, so I just going to try to regroup, get a little bit refreshed, try to play another good match.
Q. Appreciate it's after a loss, so excuse me, but next week is the Davis Cup Final, France and Belgium.  What are your thoughts on who might get through to win and why?
MARIN CILIC: I would say quite interesting from the French side to put a hard court indoor.  I was expecting it's going to be clay.  I think it might go in a nice direction for the Belgium guys.  Even though Steve has been playing really well on clay, I think he can play a little bit better on hard courts.  It's going to be interesting definitely to see also how David is going to perform.  I think with his win last night, it's going to give him nice confidence.
Obviously France is big favorite to win, but I wouldn't rule out Belgium at all.  I mean, it's still going to be quite interesting.  Most of the Davis Cup matches, it gets tight.  It will be nice to see how the French guys are going to react.
Q. Away from the match, would you say that despite the great year Roger and Rafa have had this year, the attitude in the locker room is more equal when playing them now, especially this last year?
MARIN CILIC: Yeah, I think so.  Well, they definitely performed great on these big tournaments.  A little bit unfortunate for Rafa to have that injury, not to be able to finish as good as he was playing.
But I think most of the guys have improved.  The guys that came here for the first time, Grigor, Jack, David as well, they had really good seasons, played nice tennis.  I think they improved with everything.  It's going to be definitely nice to see what's going to happen next year.
I think the level of the game is rising.  With Roger, Rafa always I think putting little bit extra pressure, it's also good for the rest of the guys, because makes them eager to improve a bit more.
Q. I know you take recovery seriously, you do all your warm-downs, everything else.  Has your attitude changed to that from when you first came on tour?  Is there anything during tournaments that you choose not to do because you know it's not good for you?
MARIN CILIC: Yeah, I think I became little bit more aware of the things that I need to do, obviously with sleeping and eating, also relaxing my mind.  It's extremely important to still stay fresh.
I am, I would say, little bit better organizing in that part.  It's great for me that I have good team and that I can pick things that we do just to relax little bit more.  Go in the city, go see some shows, things like that, just to keep my mind having fun, when I come on the practice, I'm doing serious things, that I'm not 24 hours completely serious.
I think I was doing really well in these last couple seasons, so it was helping me a lot to play better and better week after week.
Q. If you look at your tournament history, you played eight Masters and London, only one won, obviously you're playing the best players in the world, how do you feel you're doing with your mental game as opposed to your physical side?
MARIN CILIC: Definitely not a great record, but I felt that I played even well last year.  In those three matches that I played, even with Stan, I had good chances at least to win.  These two also.  So just, you know, couple points away from closing those matches.  A little bit unfortunate with that.
You know, what makes the difference I think with these top guys, if you don't take the chances, it's one point here and there.  Just going to try to be a little bit more stubborn in my preparations maybe for next match, and hopefully next year.  Hopefully I'm going to perform better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT