NITTO ATP FINALS
November 12, 2017
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. ZVEREV/M. Cilic
6-4, 3-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You must have thought you had that in the bag.  What happened in that last game for you?
MARIN CILIC: Obviously it was a big turnaround in 3-2 game.  Even on 3-1, I had some chances to go double break up.  Then on 3-2, 40-15 up, one point at 40-30 where he closed the net quite good.  I just made a wrong decision to go cross-court.  Then deuce I missed a ball which was Hawk-Eye.  He hit great lob on the breakpoint.  Just things turned around a little bit.
The last game I didn't serve as good.  Didn't get couple points on my serve there.  But just changed the momentum little bit.  I was, I would say, a better player from the beginning of the second set till that middle part of the third set, quite more I would say in control.  He was struggling to find the solutions to get back in the game.
Just little bit unfortunate to lose it towards the end.
Q. You've spoken in the past about how playing here, you'd found the court to be medium fast when you practiced, then got a lot faster with the crowd in there.  Did you find that the case today getting off to a bit of a slow start?  How did you find the conditions in general?  How did they compare to Paris?
MARIN CILIC: Yeah, I was even expecting to be just a little bit quicker.  There was a little bit slow start for me.  I didn't just play so well in those first two, three games.  Then once I got my rhythm back, I was actually playing quite good from that middle of the first set even until the end of the first set.
I had some chances on his service games.  I was winning a lot of points on the return game.  That was giving me good confidence.  I knew I was playing good level.
For the speed of the court, it's playing little bit slower than Paris.  But it was, I think, playing quite good.  I like the conditions here.
Q. You will need to play Jack and Roger now to qualify.  What are your thoughts on this scenario?
MARIN CILIC: Yeah, obviously I'm going to play Jack next match.  I believe I need to win that one to give myself a chance to go through.  Well, one positive thing today is that I won a set in the match that I lost, so it could maybe make a difference towards the end.
It's a slightly different tournament than what we were used to.  Even with the loss, you can go through.  I'm just going to try to stay positive and focus on the next match.
Q. You've also spoken about how you perhaps struggle to handle playing at the ATP Finals when you first came here.  How do you think Zverev handled it today, first appearance, played very well?
MARIN CILIC: Yeah, I think he played well.  His game is pretty straightforward:  hitting big from the back, serving good.  Pretty simple game.
I would say that even with his own game, he was little bit in and out of it today.  He was good at the beginning, then that middle patch of the match, I was better there.  He was struggling a lot to find the way to, you know, get back into the match.
But, you know, great for him.  He got the win.  That's obviously most important here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT