U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2017
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. CILIC/T. Sandgren
6-4, 6-3, 3-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Took a set from you.  Bit of a battle.  You talked about the fact you hadn't had much matchplay.  How did it feel to be back out in tournament tennis?  How is the abductor feeling?
MARIN CILIC: Everything feels okay physically.  I'm very happy with that.  That's the number one thing.
On the court obviously I felt, as well, that I'm just lacking a little bit of that consistency point after point, to be continuing with my aggression, with my tennis.
Just today I felt that after those first two sets, which were quite good, considering I haven't played, just dropped little bit with my game.  He started to swing little bit more, obviously two sets to love down.
It was a good fight towards the end of the match.  Also I was not running away to try to shorten up the points.  I was actually feeling that could be also quite good for me to get in some rallies, battle it out, just mentally-wise to get myself in a good position.
You know, feeling quite positive with first round.  Not the best as I would want, but still in a good way, you know, keeping myself positive.
Q. Is the abductor still an issue for you?
MARIN CILIC: No, actually not.  Last I would say two, three weeks it's not bothering me.  But last eight, nine days I'm practicing full without thinking about it.  That's quite good.
With this first match out of the way, I think that just resolves everything.
Q. Do you understand the reasoning of the Grand Slam Committee rule which moved you, after Murray dropped out, from a match with Simon to this match?  How did you react to all that?  Did it matter?
MARIN CILIC: You know, it's in the rules.  Still I had couple days to adjust on that.  Actually few guys moved, few guys in the draw moved.
That's the way I think, you know, it's fair to everyone.  I think the rule is like that.  You have to follow it in that way.  It didn't bother me much in my preparation.  Obviously a little bit of a different matchup.  Definitely I would rather play Tennys than Gilles in first round, as I often had some difficult battles with Gilles.  Still, would have been good to play him, too.
Q. When Murray did withdraw after the draw was already set, what went through your mind?  Did that change your outlook at all pertaining to the overall draw you're in?
MARIN CILIC: Well, it didn't change much.  Basically still my biggest focus is on myself, to get into good match play, to get my game on a good level.  I think that's my first step.
After that, obviously I'm going to be looking into more opportunities.  Obviously Andy is not playing.  That bottom part of the draw is a little bit more open there.  I was also initially.  Just now in a different quarter.
I think it's very positive in all kinds of ways.  Still focusing on myself to, you know, get to the good form and to try to pass first couple rounds, then I think my tennis is going to get better.
Q. Was it difficult for you to recover from the last final in Wimbledon, especially mentally?
MARIN CILIC: If you're asking if I was down, I wasn't feeling disappointed too much.  I knew that, okay, I was not physically 100% in that final.  That was just, you know, tough for me to handle, especially in that moment.  But I took all positives out of it.  Up to the end of Wimbledon, I had really consistent play, maybe the best ever in my career.  So that's extremely positive for me.
Now I'm looking to, you know, build on that.  Reaching another Grand Slam final is big motivation for me.  I'm looking obviously forward to get to my good form, keep it month after month.  Hopefully next 12, 18 months I can be looking back with some great results, as well.
Q. With so many top players pulling out, Rafa and Roger on the other half of the draw, are you looking at this any differently, and opportunity?
MARIN CILIC: Yeah, obviously it is.  It is great opportunity, especially for all of us guys in the bottom half of the draw.  It's much more open now.  Definitely there is a lot of opportunity.
Still feeling a little bit different than I would have felt, for example, if this would have happened in Wimbledon or maybe French Open, because here I felt that even though Wimbledon wasn't too long ago, I still didn't have any matches after that.  I had to take a long break without tennis, without running.  So just pushed me back a bit.
I'm still in focus of regaining that form.  That's my main focus.  The opportunities are there.  It's just whether to be ready or not.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT