ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2017
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. CILIC/K. Kravchuk   
6-3, 6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You must be very happy with your start here to produce straightforward round wins.  How far do you think you can go here?  
MARIN CILIC: Well, I'm taking it step by step.  It's, you know, that's the most important part.  And definitely my big focus, as I was mentioning also the last couple days, is to keep going with my game, to focus on that.  And, you know, that's my only priority.  How far I can go?  I don't know.  It's not up to me only.   
And I'm very satisfied with the way I'm playing.  Last two matches were really good quality tennis.  And also today, from beginning until the end, keeping the pressure, applying it whenever I had chances, and serving well, taking care of the short balls really good.  So I'm quite satisfied.   
 Q.  I was talking to your coach Jonas yesterday about sort of his double prowess and how he's coming to the net and it's obvious in doubles.  But is that kind of an area you're happy to work with or is it quite difficult to make that transition?  
MARIN CILIC: Absolutely.  I'm more than open to work on that.  And that was also one of the things that we spoke about first even when we started our cooperation, and we are working on that more and more.   
And I believe in these last couple months that I improved a lot, you know, from the transition from the baseline to the service line.  And not only coming to the net, I'm feeling that I'm much, much better on the shorter balls when I'm, you know, getting them.   
You know, trying to, obviously, keep the pressure with my first serve and to look for those opportunities, and it's so far going well.   
 Q.  You had your best year last year and a little bit of a dip at the start of 2017.  But you have won a title on clay already and seem to be getting back towards your best.  How far off your best do you think you are?  Do you think you are playing at a similar level to last year now and is that encouraging?  
MARIN CILIC: I have a feeling that with my game in last several weeks that I'm playing the best ever, looking at the consistency part, match after match.   
You know, also the way I'm playing, I'm really, really satisfied.  I had some patches in my career in the previous years where I played really, really good and maybe on a better level, but, you know, just looking in these last couple months, I'm feeling definitely, definitely great.   
And that has given me a lot of confidence, but still I'm on this path where I want to keep going.  I want to improve, you know, match after match, day after day, and that's the biggest focus.   
 Q.  How important was it to get off the court so quickly and playing well?  Because I think your next opponents are into their fifth set now, or they could be.  
MARIN CILIC: It's always important.  Not only that, to, you know, win those first couple rounds easier, you know, because the tiredness is accumulating, and then it can catch you up in the second week if you get there.   
But it's also a part where -- for myself where I'm feeling that I'm keeping on the pressure when the match starts, and, you know, building it up, not just going up and down with the momentum.  So, you know, that's one of the key things also playing best of five.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT