ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2019
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. DIMITROV/M. Cilic   
6-7, 6-4, 4-6, 7-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  It was a pretty much back and forth throughout the whole match.  Just talk about what brought Grigor over the hump and got him to the win.  
MARIN CILIC: Yeah, I think it was really good quality match from both sides.  I was two sets to one up and I had that little bit of a psychological advantage in that fourth set.  And also had a few chances, Love-30 one game, another game 15-30, just couple minor chances where, you know, things could have rolled on my side.   
But then at the tiebreak, he played unbelievable tiebreak to win the fourth and, you know, just kept the pressure up.  And, you know, I felt I just dropped a little bit in that fifth set, missed few balls that I was not missing in that first part of the match, you know, which can happen after four hours of play.   
But, you know, credit to him.  He was playing really well.  And I think what he did well was serving well when he was in the trouble.  When I had some chances, he was coming up with some good shots and good serves.   
And, you know, generally I think the level was very good.  Unfortunate that I could not win it and feeling a little bit disappointed, obviously.  But I think just looking at it, it was a very, very good match from both sides.   
 Q.  How do you feel you did on his second serve returns?  It seemed like you guys both missed opportunities at times on, you know, not difficult second serves that were fired your direction.  
MARIN CILIC: Yeah, I think that's the part where I, you know, didn't play at the level I should have and just struggled on some chances on the second serves.  Even 15-40, 1-Love down in the fifth, two second serves quite makeable, and, you know, a lot of those opportunities just went away.   
And, you know, when you're missing those kind of points, you know, then it's going hit you back.  So just disappointed with that.   
I think overall, from the rest of the game, I felt that I was playing well and in those -- just that part of, you know, creating chances on the return and making them when it's necessary, that, you know, made a difference.   
 Q.  Did you notice at the end that maybe he was wincing a little bit with his shoulder?  I saw him grab his side a little bit a couple of times.  Did you notice that at all?  It was around 5-2 when that happened, I think.  
MARIN CILIC: Yeah, I saw that on 5-2 and deuce.  Just second last point before I broke him, I saw that he was having trouble with his shoulder.  But, you know, that could have been, as well, tightness.  I don't know.  But unfortunate that I didn't win the next game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT