WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 21, 2016
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. CILIC/G. Dimitrov   
4-6, 6-3, 7-5   
 Q.  Marin, congratulations.  What a rollercoaster match that was.  How did you get out of it?  
MARIN CILIC: Yeah, it was completely King's Island.  We were on this side of the road.  So, yeah, it was definitely a tough match.  Grueling, heavy conditions all yesterday.  We were waiting for a long time.  Started 11:15, 11:20 p.m.; finished 1:40.  So it was really difficult.   
Mentally it was not easy.  I wasn't playing so good today.  I didn't find the rhythm on the serve, and I was just trying to stay in there in the third set and manage physically, I guess.   
 Q.  In that third set, twice down breaks and you worked your way out of it.  Love-2 and then 2-4.  At those moments, what were you saying to encourage yourself?  
MARIN CILIC: Well, I was just trying to give myself some positive thoughts, positive things to bounce back.   
You know, I felt that I was close to playing better.  I was missing obviously always for some small margin, so I just tried to focus to put the ball in play a bit more and wait for the right opportunity.   
Obviously I returned really well on those occasions and paid off, yeah.   
 Q.  Did you at all think about the match from a couple weeks at the Olympics when you beat Grigor there?  Did that come into your mind at all?  
MARIN CILIC: Little bit, little bit definitely.  But over there were different conditions.  Obviously here, semis.  Grigor also won four matches and played really good this week.  I think this court is good for his game.  It's quick and he can get a lot of free points with his serve.   
So that was not easy, but, you know, it's a big win for me.  First time in the final, so looking forward for tomorrow.   
 Q.  You just beat me to it.  First time past the quarters of a 1000, your first final in a 1000.  You thoughts on that?  
MARIN CILIC: Yeah, big week for me obviously.  Just feeling good on the court.  Played great this week, and I'm feeling really, really good and excited to be in the final place against Andy.   
He's in great form playing great tennis, and definitely looking forward to that match.   
 Q.  Last one.  Talk about specifically playing Andy.  He's got a commanding record over you.  
MARIN CILIC: Yeah, Andy's playing really good and obviously he's tough competitor for anybody.  Andy played a lot of the matches pretty close.   
He's definitely great fighter.  He's got great knowledge of the game.  He can obviously get away with different things and find his way in the matches.   
Just hoping tomorrow I'm going to play a good match; I know that I have good chance if I play well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT