AEGON CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2016
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. CILIC/F. Lopez
4-6, 6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Tough day's work for you?
MARIN CILIC: Yep.  It is.  But probably easier than for some other guys who are still waiting.
Happy to win, for sure.  Definitely was not easy after first set, you know, to go in the locker room.  But definitely helped me to get my cool and also to regroup a little bit and to, you know, think about how I'm going to go into the second and hopefully third set to go for the rest of the match.
And that was, I guess, a good moment for me to have a break.
Q. What do you think you did well today?
MARIN CILIC: I think, you know, definitely was important when I came back after the rain delay to go, you know, really for my shots.  I was, you know, I think putting little more pressure on Feliciano from that second set.
First set, you know, I think he was serving really well and it was a little bit also the court was a bit wet, so I was playing a little bit on his racquet.  He had a lot of chances to go for his shots and to come in.
So from, you know, the rain delay I was playing a little bit more aggressive, opening up the court.  My serve helped me obviously to keep that aggressive game going and going and, you know, I think was really good win.  Tough opponent for the first round, absolutely.
Q. Obviously you were going to face an unseeded player.  He's about one of the toughest ones you can get on grass, isn't he?
MARIN CILIC: Absolutely.  Obviously Feliciano likes grass, and last couple of years he's been playing really well.  So definitely was not easy, looking at the draw, playing first round against him.
You know, this tournament is extremely tough from first matches and you have to be obviously ready from the blocks.
Q. You tend to do well here.  Do you enjoy the conditions?
MARIN CILIC: I do.  I do, I do really enjoy.  You know, it's also a matter of sometimes just giving yourself a chance to play to win couple of matches, and then you are in the groove to play better.  You know, I was feeling like that even today.
You know, I didn't play too bad.  Just lost that first set.  And it could have happened that I lose this match, and, you know, you are losing first round early in the week and still long time until Wimbledon where I didn't play actually that bad.
So that is one of the things that, you know, when you approach grass, you still have to be, you know, careful even if you're playing really well that you manage, you know, to get some wins and to, you know, give yourself some chances obviously to play few more times.
Q. Does a game like that give you confidence for Wimbledon or you don't think about Wimbledon yet?
MARIN CILIC: Well, it is, you know, still far.  I was just happy even in last, you know, three, four days of my practice the way I was practicing, hitting the ball.  I was feeling the ball really, really good.  But still it is a matter, you know, to put it in the court when the match starts, when you have, you know, break-point opportunities, when you're down with a break, how you're gonna come up with your game and what are you gonna do then on the court.
And, you know, this obviously match helped me to, you know, find my shots.  And even today I was, you know, one set down, and also third set he came back from a break down, so there was also a little bit of a battle.  To stay in there, to maintain focus is I think very crucial.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT