U.S. OPEN
September 11, 2015
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. DJOKOVIC/M. Cilic   
6-0, 6-1, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What were your thoughts about your physical condition before the match, and what do you think you would be able to accomplish by playing?  
MARIN CILIC: Well, I knew that, you know, I'm not 100%, obviously.  And even the last match against Jo I wasn't feeling 100%.  You know, the foot was causing me obviously some trouble with the movement, but, you know, Novak was able to expose me much more today.   
Even coming before the match and thinking, you know, if I'm going to play or not, I decide to play, as it's a Grand Slam tournament, it's deep in the tournament.  You know, I decide to go on the court and give my best.   
You know, if it would be some other tournament, doesn't matter which one, I would probably pull out and not, you know, get myself in the position to aggravate it much more.   
But also, you know, today, even though with the foot, it was -- even though it was causing me trouble, I didn't play so well today.  You know, a lot of mishits and a lot of missed balls that, you know, I shouldn't have missed in some situations.   
But that was in my head already from the beginning and the score went in that way.  The score was going pretty quickly in the beginning, so, you know, it didn't give me time to get in the match.   
 Q.  How do you think you'll look back on this?  
MARIN CILIC: Well, I will look back very positively to the tournament.  Extremely great tournament.  Obviously very unlucky that I twisted the ankle, but still with that, you know, in the match against Novak, anyway it's very difficult.   
I went to the match obviously to play.  You know, I cannot pull myself out of it with injury.  That's the reality.   
You know, Novak was extremely focused today.  He played great.  But I have to also take myself as, you know, that I was fighting pretty well during the full tournament.  Considering the first time experience having to defend a Grand Slam title, I feel that I accomplished well.   
So I'm very, very positive coming out of the tournament.   
 Q.  You enjoyed a little bit being out there, or was it just frustrating from one point to the next?  
MARIN CILIC: You know, was not frustrating.  I was just hoping that I'm going to be able to get into the match more.  And, you know, for the crowd as well as it would be obviously also pretty disappointing that I have pulled out before the match.  That's always the situation.   
But, yeah, I was able to enjoy it a little bit, even though it wasn't fun.   
 Q.  Talk more about Novak, top player of the world, No 1.  Talk about him a little bit more.  
MARIN CILIC: You know, not much new to say about Novak.  Novak is playing really good this season.  He's played great this tournament.  Played also great today.   
 Q.  When you finished playing, Novak said it was because of ankle injury.  Do you think it was also the fact that you are playing against Novak Djokovic or it would be same if it was another person?  
MARIN CILIC: No, I know Novak knows me really well, and, you know, just his game doesn't suit me so well.  And also the fact that he's returning extremely well, getting a lot of balls back, you know, it's already from there very difficult situation for me from.   
If I would be even completely healthy and, you know, just having a small part in my game that doesn't work well with him, obviously he exposes it to extreme conditions.   
So it's, you know, very difficult.  But I went to that match to give my best, which I did.  You know, I'm proud of myself.  Obviously a lot of people are going to say it's a little bit of embarrassment to lose like that, but I'm clear in my mind that I went to the match, it's a semifinals, saying if I'm going to take ever a chance, it's going to be this time.   
 Q.  What was your reaction to the Serena Williams match before you came on?  
MARIN CILIC: Well, I mean, obviously pretty disappointing for her, for I guess all her fans.   
Yeah, I didn't actually follow too much.  I was trying to focus as much as I could, but obviously, you know, not easy with all the attention she's got and constantly, day after day, everybody is talking about it.   
Very unfortunate for her, yeah.   
 Q.  As someone who won a Grand Slam here, and it was a bit of a surprise to people, what are your thoughts for Vinci today?  
MARIN CILIC: You know, great.  She held her nerves pretty well, I guess.  She got to the semis anyway.  She beat several for sure great players on the route to the semis, and obviously took her chance today.   
Obviously Serena wasn't playing so well and the way she could.  And considering the attention, the pressure, I guess that helps Vinci to play pretty loose.   
 Q.  Is it a serious foot injury or just...  
MARIN CILIC: Yeah, I twisted the ankle.  It was pretty swollen a few days ago.  Still is.   
But hopefully it won't take too long to be 100%.   
 Q.  Last year you were in finals, so I'm interested if you're going to stay and watch the final here.  How is it watching the final when you know last year you are the winner?  
MARIN CILIC: Well, we'll see this year.  I'm still gonna decide.  I mean, I have Davis Cup next week.  Scheduled to play in Brazil.   
So I'm probably going to go there as soon as I can.  We will see.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT