WIMBLEDON
July 8, 2015
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/M. Cilic
  6‑4, 6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   What do you take from this tournament overall?   What are the positives for you?  
MARIN CILIC:   Well, I think I was playing pretty well during tournament and I showed in a few matches that my level of the game is really on a good way.   
I'm pretty satisfied with the form, with the tournament in general, of course.   Another course here, especially playing Novak today, who I think was extremely solid from all areas of the game.   Especially he was serving really well today.   Didn't have any breakpoints, which is very rare in a five‑set match [sic].   I don't know if it happened ever to me.   
Overall, looking positively ahead.   Of course it's a pity always to lose in quarters.   It's pretty deep in a tournament.   Considering I was also playing good tennis, I wouldn't say disappointed.   I was, you know, looking forward today to have a better fight.   
But I think Novak was very, very solid from beginning till the end.   He didn't give me much to play with.   
   
 Q.   Was Novak too efficient for you?   Was he just too good at the small things sometimes?  
MARIN CILIC:   Yeah, just few things made a difference today.   I don't think I was serving really good today comparing to some other matches during the tournament.   
Obviously, okay, Novak is putting a bit more pressure on you.   But just feeling‑wise, I wasn't serving well, especially in the breakpoints down or some critical situation.   I was not getting out of them with my serve.   That was leaving to him more opportunities.   
But Novak has been really consistent during the year.   I think also in today's match he was, you know, from first point until the last, very focused and, you know, not giving much for me to play and not many opportunities I had.   
   
 Q.   This is the last Grand Slam before the US Open, which you return to as defending champion.   Do you start to think about that yet?   
MARIN CILIC:   A little bit.   Yeah, a little bit.   I think Wimbledon over here has helped me to be more confident about U.S. tournaments and the US Open obviously.   You know, I think this match today can give me also few things to work on in this time ahead.   
I'm looking very positively to this summer.   I think it's going to be nice to play in U.S.  
   
 Q.   What was it like to play in front of the royal family and David Beckham today?  
MARIN CILIC:   It was fun.   
   
 Q.   Nervous?  
MARIN CILIC:   No, not at all.   Not at all.   Relaxed as usual.   It's a little bit of a pity that the match was not more close, I would say.   But it was for sure pleasure.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT