WIMBLEDON
July 6, 2015
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. CILIC/D. Kudla
  6‑4, 4‑6, 6‑3, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   That was a bit shorter than your previous two matches.   You must be pretty happy to have knocked it off in four?  
MARIN CILIC:   Yeah, absolutely.   I was not playing too great today.   I would say just serving‑wise the level was a bit, a fraction lower than my previous match with John.   
But, you know, I think Denis was playing really well.   He was not missing much and a little bit different game, and this court plays a bit faster than the other ones.   So it was not easy.   Especially he had, you know, a few good wins.   
Throughout the match I was looking for some opportunities and the right ways to play.   Towards the end of the third set I managed to find the proper way to play, and I was feeling better also on my serves.  
Yeah, pretty happy that it didn't go in the fifth set.  
   
 Q.   Second year in a row you're through to the quarters.   How close do you think you are to the sort of form that you brought to NewYork last year?  
MARIN CILIC:   It's a bit different.   In NewYork I also played NewYork pretty solid first four matches, and then just suddenly, since the fifth match and quarters I was playing two levels or three levels better than the previous matches.  
So just trying to stay focused with my perspectives, and, you know, with more matches I'm playing.   Obviously these two matches, the last ones, third round and second round gave me little bit more confidence as winning in five does this.  
So really confident for the next match.  
   
 Q.   Novak's obviously struggling at the moment, but if it was to be a repeat, you went close to beating him here last year.   What do you think you'd have to do this time to get past?  
MARIN CILIC:   Well, pretty simple from my side.   In the game where Novak is playing at the speed that he's playing, of course, that's the speed that he's going to be better at, so I'm going to have to be more aggressive to play more risky tennis.   Of course that leaves less margins for error, but that's the way I was playing last year.   
I think this would be the best opportunity for me to try to play, you know, full on.  
   
 Q.   And if it's Kevin?  
MARIN CILIC:   If it's Kevin I have never played on grass.   I think we played several times and it was always pretty close.   Always pretty tight matches.  
He had pretty good Queen's tournament, but, you know, I would prefer to play Kevin rather than Novak, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Just talking about the US Open, are you superstitious or do you think you're going to do all the same things that you do last year when you go to NewYork?   Are you going to change some things in terms of hotels?  
MARIN CILIC:   Not really.   Not really.   I mean, it's a new year.   It's going to be new things.   
So nothing.   I don't think there will be too many same things.   I think it's going to be just as usual, new tournament.  
   
 Q.   So there are players who are, but you're not a superstitious player?  
MARIN CILIC:   Not too much.   Not too much.   I'm pretty relaxed about this.   But in my team, we have sometimes joke about this, but nothing too crazy.   
You know, still those things are not gonna help you win.   They can only make you, you know, laugh a little bit more.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT