WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2015
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. CILIC/J. Isner
  7‑6, 6‑7, 6‑4, 6‑7, 12‑10 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Do you prepare differently for that?   Do you sit down with your guy before and say, Let's get it done quickly?   
MARIN CILIC:   Not really.   I spoke with Goran.   Well, the basic plan was to be as focused as I can be on my service games and to wait for my chance on the return games.   
The big part of yesterday's match was that I was returning really, really well, and I was, most of the times, very close to either having some small chances like 15‑30s or Love‑30 and a lot of games were very, very close on John's serve.  
So I was in a mind trying to be as focused as I can be on my serve, and eventually I was feeling that I might be the one that, you know, could get to the break first.  
But, you know, starting at 10‑all is a very nervous time to continue.   
   
 Q.   You were 3‑Love up in the fifth set.   Then you end 10‑all and you have all the night to think about it.   What was the emotions?  
MARIN CILIC:   Well, honestly, after the match I was, you know, a little bit upset definitely with the fifth‑set outcome.   I was a break up there, and it gave John a chance to come back even though he played well.   
But I was the one that was always, you know, putting more danger on him and putting more pressure on him.   And, you know, to finish the day on even score, you know, after such long match we played, it was not the best scenario for me.  
But, you know, still I was positive.   I was once in a similar situation.   I played on Court 1 in 2009 with Tommy Haas.   We stopped at 6‑6 in the fifth set.   Day after I came back and I didn't continue well, so maybe that was a bit lesson of experience.  
   
 Q.   You lost that match?  
MARIN CILIC:   Yeah, 9‑7.  
   
 Q.   What do you think of the fifth set rule, playing it out?   Obviously people were thinking of the most famous match here, went 70‑68.   Do you think they should have a way of stopping the fifth set at some point?   Whether at 6‑6, play a tiebreaker, or some other point?   Do you think it should be able to go 70‑68?   
MARIN CILIC:   For me, the rule is fine as long as you're not playing John.   That's the difficulty (smiling).   
You know, thoughts of the players around are I think split.   Some say it's bad to play a tiebreak, but for me, when you're playing at a Grand Slam, I feel it's more fair that you play, to play it out for the fans.   And for the players playing after you, it's not easy, but I think it's as fair as can be.  
   
 Q.   Do you know anything about Denis Kudla?  
MARIN CILIC:   I have practiced with Denis a few times.   Actually even last year on grass we practiced few times.   We never played, but I know that he's capable of playing really, really well, especially on grass and some faster courts.  
For me, you know, it was a surprise that he even beat Giraldo yesterday, so definitely a player to watch who can be dangerous.  
   
 Q.   Where would you rank this in your favorite surfaces?   Hard court be No. 1 and this No. 2?  
MARIN CILIC:   Yes.   Yes, I would.   Couple more percentages towards the hard courts, but, you know, still on grass I'm enjoying to play.   
Here, the Wimbledon courts, I really like as comparing them to the other tournaments I played.   It was, I think, you know, easier to play from the back of the court, and the court is not bad bounces and it's easy to move on.  
   
 Q.   We know Goran's record here.   How much more is he helping you or how much more are you discussing here than you would be at other places?   How much more input is he giving you here?  
MARIN CILIC:   Honestly, not too much that it's changing my game or my perspective of looking at the matches and playing different tactically.  
Of course I'm trying to be a little more aggressive here than on the other surfaces.   As you know, here is a bit tougher to cover the court and to play defensively, so I'm trying to be more focused on that part.  
For me, last year was a good point of direction where I should, you know, point my game on grass and trying just to be in that direction this year, too.  
   
 Q.   How has your relationship with him changed?   I mean, you have been together a pretty long time now.   In the beginning I'm sure there is a lot of talk and communication and change and stuff.   What is it like now?  
MARIN CILIC:   Very, very simple.   You know, Goran knows me well, and, you know, we have been already almost two years together.   And, you know, another part is that we are coming from the same country.   You know, same language is spoken, so it's easier.   Mentality, he can understand me very well.   
It's, I think, very, very simple guidelines for me.   Nothing too complicated, especially at this point of our relationship.   It's working really well for me.   You know, I have big respect for Goran and big belief that, you know, he's always bringing me the right things, so it's mutually working really well.  
   
 Q.   Sounds like a lot of it is friendship as opposed to, you know, the typical coach, You do this, you do that.   
MARIN CILIC:   You would get that in most of the teams.   It's very similar.   Some players might be different, but for me it works that way and, you know, with a team atmosphere and that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT