WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2015
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. CILIC/R. Berankis
  6‑3, 4‑6, 7‑6, 4‑6, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on how you got through today?  
MARIN CILIC:   Well, I would say that the match was very, very high quality match.   I think Ricardas was playing extremely well.   Even after I broke him in the first set, I think he was playing really, really good until the end of the match, and there was, of course, very difficult to find some openings.  
I'm, you know, just really glad that I won and that the most positive things from today are that I was serving really, really well and, you know, I was staying mentally in the match.  
I saved a couple of break points end of the fifth, and, you know, just I think nerves got to Ricardas at the end, and that, I think, decided a little bit.  
   
 Q.   When John Isner was in this room earlier and he was asked about playing against you.   He said the thing that he's most impressed is your calmness on the court, that you never get angry about anything.   How would you describe the way you've developed that quality and its importance to your success?  
MARIN CILIC:   Well, I'm kind of like that as a person, and, you know, it works for me that way. That's how I, you know, deal with the things on the court and, you know, trying to, you know, solve the problems, not to be stressed and nervous about them.  
That's of course the part that is helping me.   Some other players are more negative or more positive and that works better for them, but I'm kind of like I am.   You know, that helps me the most.  
   
 Q.   What do you foresee in a matchup with Isner?  
MARIN CILIC:   Yeah, we have played several times.   I think the only time we have played at the Grand Slam was in Australia.   It was very long match.   
With John, it's always difficult, you know, couple balls are going to decide.   And especially here on grass, I don't think there will be too much rallies, and, you know, it's gonna be important who has more concentration and who's delivering, you know, better shots at critical moments, yeah.  
   
 Q.   What has the US Open championship meant to the time since then?   In these months since and even going into Wimbledon, what do you draw from having won that US Open?  
MARIN CILIC:   I think the mentality is different for me.   Even, you know, before I was and always focused on certain things, but now I'm more specific about that.   Even though, of course, in matches always you can't control the things.   It's always something unexpected is coming.   So I'm trying to deal with those small details, and, you know, trying to be mentally like I was at US Open.  
I think that will, you know, give me the biggest opportunity to play the best of my possible tennis that I can play.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT