WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2015
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. CILIC/H. Moriya
  6‑3, 6‑2, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.     Your first Wimbledon as a Grand Slam champion.   Does it feel different?
MARIN CILIC:   I don't know.   Not so far.   You know, I had debut in Paris, so it was I think just pretty similar.   Nothing too specific. 
But my mind is same, I would say, as before winning Grand Slam, of course.   Very much focused from the early rounds.   In today's first match I would just say that as I was mentioning that even before, you know, winning Grand Slam you gain more in your knowledge and experience of dealing with the Grand Slam matches.   It helped me to, you know, have my mind right in the things that I need to be focused on during the tournament.

Q.   For example, what kind of things? 
MARIN CILIC:   Well, just the things that are working for me for my game.   I have less doubts what to do on the court, you know, than before.

Q.   Did it take you long to get used to being a Grand Slam champion?
MARIN CILIC:   No.

Q.   Such an amazing thing. 
MARIN CILIC:   No (smiling).   Just one evening. 
But, no, it's just different feeling.   But of course has difficulties with that and some easier parts and positive parts, but, you know, always looking to positive side more.

Q.   Continuing that theme, you do seem a more confident person on court since the US Open?
MARIN CILIC:   Well, yeah.   That's the case, I would say, more, you know, when you would compare top guys with the other players, you would know that you would see that, you know, they are more confident about their game because they know if they are doing the things right, they are, you know, on the right path.   Something similar is with me. 
I'm trying to be focused on the things that are working for me and for my game, and, you know, really putting everything into it in every match.

Q.   Does having an extra week on grass make any difference?   Will it make any difference in the results?   With Djokovic, for instance, he didn't play a tournament.   Do you think it will have an impact?
MARIN CILIC:   It's more individual. 
I guess in my own case... 

Q.   What about you?
MARIN CILIC:   Yeah, in my own case, it's better, I would say.   I can play more matches.   I have more time on grass.   You know, usually the season is very short, so you might have just a couple of matches where you play, you know, big guys, big servers, and then you can have some tough days like that.
But I think this year it's better for the players and, you know, it might have an impact that, you know, better tennis would be played even, you know, from the first early rounds at Wimbledon.

Q.   How do you feel your form is now?   Obviously getting back after your long layoff, do you feel you're getting back to your best now?
MARIN CILIC:   Yeah.   Getting there.   I wouldn't say it's the best, the best, but I'm getting there.
I'm getting the confidence back, which is important for me. 
In Paris I had a good tournament.   I played several good matches.   That was very important to me.
You know, now, you know, all the things can change in Grand Slam.   You're playing more sets.   You are a little bit more focused.   I'm feeling pretty confident about my game, so I had two tournaments prior to coming here, and, yeah, feeling pretty good.

Q.   You had a good Wimbledon last year.   Do you feel this is now becoming your surface, as well, a good surface for you?
MARIN CILIC:   Well, I guess so.   But as I'm mentioning, you know, it's very tough on grass to really be super confident, as, you know, you can have matchups against tough opponents and, you know, in a few moments you can have a bad slip up, and the tournament is over. 
So I'm confident, but, you know, still not, you know, not taking it carelessly.

Q.   You may have seen that Djokovic was asked if Boris Becker gave him some signals during play.   Does your coach give you any signals?
MARIN CILIC:   Yeah, I don't know.   I don't know about that, but not really.   I'm playing on my own on the court.   Talking with Goran before the match what am I gonna be focused on.   But, you know, in the match, the player has to decide what to do.

Q.   Often when you win a Grand Slam, it's an aftermath of figuring out what comes next.   Are you still going through that aftermath, or have you worked your way through that?   Do you have all the cobwebs that... 
MARIN CILIC:   I figured it out.   You know, it's still more or less the same feeling as before winning it.   The main difference is, you know, you are doing much more specific work, and you can, you know, be more precise with your preparations, with your training, of course the matches.
I think that's giving you the best opportunity to play the best. 
You never know what is going to come out, but, you know, you're giving yourself the best opportunity to do, you know, the best, as like in the past.

Q.   How long did that take to get back to kind of getting rid of all the aftermath of winning the Open?   Getting on with your playing? 
MARIN CILIC:   I would say several tournaments in this year, as, you know, I didn't play beginning of the year.   It took me, for sure, several tournaments to play, you know, seven to ten matches to get, really get going and to get back into my form and of course to be very precise with my mind on the court. 

Q.   After your layoff, are you back to full fitness now?   The match in Stuttgart, did that take much out of you? 
MARIN CILIC:   No, I'm injury‑free at the moment hopefully for a long time (smiling).   Yeah, everything is fine.   Just, you know, I didn't have actually too much problems after that except just a little bit in the match with Troicki in the semis, but otherwise everything was fine the last couple of months.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT