BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 14, 2015
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. MONACO/M. Cilic
  6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Was your shoulder all right?   Just ordinary?   How did it hold up?  
MARIN CILIC:   It's getting there.   It's getting there.   I didn't feel, you know, completely painless.   Just I felt, you know, that it's a bit rusty still.  
So I felt that even on the serve I wasn't able to pop it, you know, to hit it at a full speed.   So that was I think giving him a little more opportunities and more freedom in the game as, you know, I wasn't getting too many free points for the serve and overall from the game.   
I mean, he's always very solid player.   Gets a lot of balls back.   I think he played pretty solid today.   So that was, you know, giving me more work to do from the back of the court to be able to even, you know, be in the lead.  
So most of the service games that I had we had a lot of rallies, and I had to work a lot to finish off the points.  
   
 Q.   This was your first time back in a long time.   Can you tell me what you have been doing since you last played and how it felt to be back out on court?  
MARIN CILIC:   Yeah, it was really good to be playing, you know, first tournament and first match obviously.   I wasn't expecting that I'm going to be playing great tennis, which, you know, it's always difficult in the first couple matches.   I mean, some players do feel great straightaway from the beginning, but I'm kind of player, you know, that needs few matches to get into it.   
You know, in these last two, three weeks I was training.   I was being able to play tennis all of this time.   Before I wasn't able to hit any balls, and that was difficult part.  
But, you know, in these last, let's say 20 days, of course you get some blisters by not playing, you know.   Your body is sore, shoulder is sore, wrist, things like that.   It wasn't the best, but, you know, I'm looking forward ‑‑I'm looking into this as good preparation and just opportunity to play a match and of course in doubles as much as I can to give myself more time on the tennis court in official matches.  
   
 Q.   What exactly is the nature of the injury that put you out?   And also, you said that you were still feeling some of the pain in the shoulder on court.   Any concern about that?   Because as you kind of start playing a little more, is it going to get worse?  
MARIN CILIC:   Well, I had injury throughout the second part of last year.   I had to take a break for 10 weeks.   I didn't think it's going to be that long.   I thought in the beginning it's going to be shorter.   That's why I missed the first part of the year.  
Yeah.   I wasn't able to do any tennis.   I had to rest completely from playing, and I was doing only physical in this part.   Just last two, three weeks I was being able to play, to start to play some tennis.  
So that's about it.   The other thing, I mean, always in the beginning when you start to play, everything hurts a little bit.   I'm not concerned too much about this.   I mean, the body is going to get good in a few days, for sure.  
   
 Q.   So it's just typical kind of wear and tear of getting back?   Nothing special?  
MARIN CILIC:   Yeah.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   It didn't look like you were 100% out there.   We know you're playing doubles tomorrow.   What's the reason that you're playing with Del Potro if you're not quite there yet?  
MARIN CILIC:   Well, I am.   I was, you know, feeling ready to play.   I mean, of course, you know, when you're always playing first match you're never going to be completely 100%.  
But I went today out on court to win and I was pushing myself.   Even in the last games when Juan was serving for it I was even having few chances to come back.   So it wasn't like one‑way story today.   
You know, important is to play matches, to play official matches, and to get myself going and to feel this feeling on the court.  
With the doubles, I spoke with Delpo, and he expressed desire to play and also to get back on the court, as well.   He's planning to play in Miami.   So, you know, few matches in the doubles is always helpful.  
   
 Q.   You're coming off the Grand Slam.   What kind of mentality do you have coming into the new season?   Do you feel you'll have a bull's eye on your back with other players because now you're a Grand Slam champion?  
MARIN CILIC:   Well, yeah, I think that's pretty normal to expect.   Of course most of the players are going to be looking now to be more motivated against me and to, you know, try to win of course even more and to play, you know, on 100% of their game.  
But that's of course obvious and, you know, that's always going to be there.   You know, I'm taking that as a positive, and, you know, I have to just still be focused on my game.  
   
 Q.   How were the conditions out there?   Hot?   Not hot?   It's probably hot.  
MARIN CILIC:   Yeah, hot (laughter).  
   
 Q.   The balls, are they flying?   Talk about that.   
MARIN CILIC:   Yeah, I think the conditions are pretty quick.   I don't know how it will be in the evening matches when it gets a bit cooler, but during the day it's pretty quick.   The ball is bouncing pretty high and I think it's pretty fast.  
I mean, it's hot but it's not humid, so it's not a problem.  
   
 Q.   When do you think you will be back in top form?   Are you aiming like Wimbledon, or what's your target for playing your best tennis this season?  
MARIN CILIC:   Well, I'm looking of course to play‑‑ you know, after four, five matches when I'm going to be playing on the court probably I'm going to feel, you know, each‑‑ after each match better and better.   You know, I'm going to try to play as many as I can.   
Also, in this time, in this time up to coming to Miami to try to work on that and to get ready.   We will see.   I mean, Wimbledon is still pretty far.  
   
 Q.   You have had experience where you have been off tour and come back.   Does this one feel different?   How do you prepare yourself mentally to take off as quickly as possible?  
MARIN CILIC:   Yeah, I have been couple times out, and, you know, even each time when I would be coming back I would always feel that I would need few matches to get back, just to spend some time in the court.  
Now I feel pretty good.   You know, with the body and with everything, with the mindset, I'm feeling pretty good.  
And, you know, just a matter of working on the court and doing the right things.   I think I'm going to be soon in pretty good form.  
   
 Q.   What did Goran tell you after the match?  
MARIN CILIC:   I mean, we just spoke.   I was also ‑‑both of us were expecting that it won't be the prettiest match today.   It's the first one.   You know, not to panic.   Not to, you know, get disappointed or anything.   Just to, you know, keep going.   We'll work on the things we need, and, you know, to get ready for Miami.  
   
 Q.   When you discussed the injury with your doctors and physios and all that sort of stuff, was there any sense as to whether or not making the trips, doing ITPL during the offseason and all that, that may have pushed back the recovery time?   Was there no impact?   What was the sense there?   Do you regret playing it?  
MARIN CILIC:   No, I don't.   I did the recheck even before going to ITPL, and then after.   And even the bone got better in that time.  
I mean, of course, you know, I played okay.   I played there six, seven matches and didn't hurt me that much.   Then later it took pretty long time to get back and to reheal it.   And even if I would know this I would probably skip playing Masters end of the year, Tour Finals.  
But, you know, at that time I didn't know it's going to take really that long.  
   
 Q.   When you looked at the draw today and you saw Monaco, the ultimate grinder, did you think, Tough draw?   
MARIN CILIC:   Well, I thought even playing with Monaco would be good matchup as, you know, he's at least playing in his own rhythm.   He's not, you know, changing the pace.   He's of course a great runner and can play really good.  
But, you know, if I would play a bit better and if I would serve a bit better, I felt I would, you know, have of course a better shot to winning it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT