AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 6, 1999
Sandy Alomar
Bartolo Colon
Travis Fryman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Travis, how gratifying was that hit for you after all you've gone through this
season? 

A. (TRAVIS FRYMAN) It means a lot to me. When I was going through the rehabing process
for that period of time, it gets a little bit monotonous and I think one of the things I
used to help keep the work level intense was the desire to want to play in the
post-season, the desire to want to play well; so to get a chance to win the ball game
tonight, to come up in that situation, believe me, I've been thinking about that for a few
months now. 

Q. How satisfying of a win is this for you, Bartolo?

A. (BARTOLO COLON) He said it was gratifying for the whole team, not just him, the
whole team. There was a lot of pressure and he pitched a great game. 

Q. It was noticed, Bartolo, that you were pumping your fist on some of the plays by
Roberto and Omar. How meaningful was that for you? 
A. (BARTOLO COLON) He say that he was very emotional every time that one of our
infielder make a great play. Those guys help a lot. 

Q. Travis and Sandy, both. Travis, you can go first. Your feelings when you saw Pedro
wasn't coming out?

A. (SANDY ALOMAR) Well, one of the pitches in the fifth inning, he threw a fastball
about 88 mile an hour. I thought it was about 80 not 88. That's one of the advantages of
having the speed board over there. When we saw that it was 88, I said, wait a minute, 88.
It can't be a change-up. That's too hard. His change-ups are about 81-82 mile an hour. So
Omar said maybe something is wrong with him. So sure enough, he didn't come back in the
sixth, so we figured something was wrong with him
A. (TRAVIS FRYMAN) We came in in the sixth inning and I heard Omar say hey, new
pitcher, guys. I thought he was joking around to kind of lighten the guys up a little bit.
I looked out there and I saw Lowe walking in and for me personally, it was kind of hey, we
got a chance to get back in the ball game, too.
A. (SANDY ALOMAR) Then Lowe stuck it to us.
A. (TRAVIS FRYMAN) Yes. Then he stuck it to us. But I think any time you face a Pedro
Martinez, you have to perform at a very high level but you can't make many mistakes. When
you see him come out of the game, it gives you a greater sense of confidence that you can
win the game and Bartolo pitched brilliantly, kept us in the game so I think it was a big
pick me up for our club. 

Q. Sandy, would you give us your thoughts about having a playoff game under your belt
with all you've been doing in rehab?

A. (SANDY ALOMAR) Well, we kind of went through the same path together. It's very
gratifying to play in the post-season. Every year, this team is expected to win and we go
through aches and pains and bumps in the road, but the bottom line is that you play
baseball to play in the post-season and there's nothing more gratifying than to have the
opportunity to play especially since my brother is here and seeing Travis coming back. It
was kind of like a race, who was coming back first and we did it. 

Q. Sandy, with the way that Bartolo pitched in the post-season last year and his 18
wins this year and the way he pitched tonight, can we say now that the Indians have that
number one pitcher?

A. (SANDY ALOMAR) Well, definitely, Bartolo is a very mature guy now. He's got better
poise when he's pitching and he pitches faster than he used to pitch, so he keeps the
defense alive. Last year sometime in the second half he was a little bit slow when he'd
pitch and he was a little bit lazy, but now he has a lot of confidence and it's kind of
nice to see a guy like Bartolo with that type of arm be able to keep us in a game that
long, especially in the second half. 

Q. Sandy, what does it mean to get past Pedro in the opening game of the series?

A. (SANDY ALOMAR) Well, it means a lot. By no means is the series over. Bret Saberhagen
is a tough customer. This is a tough series for both teams. Don't expect that since we
beat Pedro it's going to be easy. It's not. Bret Saberhagen has done great against us.
Their bullpen is great. So it's not over, to me it's not over. We have the advantage of
winning the first game, especially we haven't done that since 1995 when Tony Pena hit the
home run to win the first game. 

Q. Travis, would you go through that at-bat and tell us what your thoughts were? 

A. (TRAVIS FRYMAN) The only good thing about that at-bat was the result. I did
everything up there I didn't want to do. The first pitch fastball in, I check swing. When
you're in that situation, you're thinking stay gap to gap up the middle of the field and
be patient because he's got to come to you and I check swing a breaking ball and, like I
said, everything was wrong about that at-bat except the result; so I got a fastball up
that I was able to get on top of and get the hit but it's not an at-bat I want to teach
somebody how to hit in that situation.

Q. Was it a one-two pitch?

A. (TRAVIS FRYMAN) Yes. 

Q. When you're down in the count as you were in that at-bat, what's your approach,
what's going through your mind?

A. (TRAVIS FRYMAN) I think any hitter will tell you they go up there and they do some
things they didn't want to do, they get behind in the count. They step out, take a second,
try to collect themselves, get a little poise and get back in there and then try to bear
down and not repeat those same mistakes. When I check swung at that curveball, I stepped
out and you do a lot of talking to yourself and you get back in there and hopefully take a
better approach to the ball and I was able to do that. So most hitters would tell you the
same thing, though that was not a textbook at-bat, but the result was good. 

Q. Sandy, we saw Enrique in the dugout with his rally cap on. How reminiscent was that
of 95?

A. (SANDY ALOMAR) Well, I'll tell you, I was so focused on the game I didn't see the
rally caps. I was trying to see if the pitchers was falling into any patterns but our
bench was great, outstanding. Every single inning, they were on top of the dugout, on top
of the play cheering for us. Carlos Baerga. Enrique Wilson. Dave Roberts. Those guys on
the bench, those guys are as important as we are and they deserve a lot of credit. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT