AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 5, 1999
Sandy Alomar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How special is the post-season going to be for you since you didn't get a chance to
play with Robbie during the regular season? Did you think you would come back from the
injury the way you did?

A. If you are happy working a month and a half, right now I am very surprised that I'm
playing and that I am as healthy as I am right now. To me it was a gamble, 50/50 gamble
and it seems to be paying off. The goal for our family is to play post-season. We already
accomplished that and hopefully go all the way to the World Series. That remains to be
seen. And the other question, what was the other question you asked me? 

Q. You said when you started to come back you never know when you are playing a
post-season game. Do you have any feeling this kind of window is closing, anything like
that? 

A. Not really. I think we're going to have a great team for years to come. But the
window is getting narrower. As the Indians we have to make some decisions on some players
and the team is getting older, as you know. The window is getting narrower. But the
division is still not as strong as the old division. So we still have opportunities in
post-season. But I play baseball like this is going to be my last year every year and if I
get an opportunity to play this year, that's great. If I get an opportunity to play a year
after that, it's even better. But I take it year from year. 

Q. How big a lift would it be for you guys to come out to beat Pedro tomorrow night
knowing how much the Red Sox rely on them? 
A. It would be huge. But you still have to beat the other guys. The other guys pitch
good against us too. Saberhagen did a good job against us. So I think it will be a heck of
a game. I would be lying if I told you it would not be. 

Q. Would you compare these two teams to a year ago? Would you talk about how they're
better and how you're better?

A. Well, the only thing that I can really point out is experience. I think they are
more experienced in post-season than last year. They had a younger guy with less
experience than the Cleveland Indians and we have a lot more experience in post-season.
But now they're more prepared. They are more focused. They over came the loss of Mo Vaughn
and that is big for them. For them to make the post-season without Mo Vaughn is a big
accomplishment. I believe they are more focused this year than they were last year.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT