MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 19, 1997
Sandy Alomar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What are some of the early signs that Chad Ogea is going to be pitching at the top
of this game?
 
 SANDY ALOMAR: When he located the fastball leaning out, keep his change-up down, that
was the key of Chad Ogea. When he keeps the fast balls high, he's going to be in trouble.
And that's why a couple of times I kept telling him to keep the ball low. Because he gets
in a big deal of trouble when he keeps the ball high. 
 
Q. Sandy, did you see Moises breaking or did you get a verbal call from Chad or Matt?
 
 SANDY ALOMAR: Well, the ball -- it was in front of me, it wasn't that far from me, I
saw Moises peak a little bit, he had a bad jump and decided to go on to third base. I was
lucky enough to make a low throw to Matt Williams, and he was able to make a good tag. I
took a chance but I thought we were going to have him anyway. 
 
Q. You slipped and lost your balance?
 
 SANDY ALOMAR: I was going to run over Chad Ogea if I didn't, might as well just throw
the ball from my knees and try to prevent a collision with Chad. 
 
Q. What's the worst thing you've done this year? Seems like you've got a magic wand.
You must have done something dumb or bad this year?
 
 SANDY ALOMAR: I've done a lot of dumb things, believe me. I can't remember what one.
Sometimes when I'm not very aggressive behind the plate, I make some mistakes. And I
learned that through the years in baseball. I think that's the dumbest part in baseball.
You've got to be aggressive. 
 
Q. Sandy, did I hear you say on TV that your dad's birthday is today?
 
 SANDY ALOMAR: It's my dad's birthday. I think he called me this morning and he was
talking to me. And I had forgotten to tell him Happy Birthday. But after I had the homerun
I talked to Keith Oberman, I told him, be sure you say on TV it's my dad's birthday, and
then I got that homerun. I'm not trying to be cheap, and not buy him a present. I gave him
a watch last week, so he already got a gift. 
 
Q. How old is he?
 
 SANDY ALOMAR: He's 54. 
 
Q. Chad, looked like he had some trouble in the first inning, maybe hung one to Alou,
what was he doing different after that? 
 
 SANDY ALOMAR: He didn't change much, he was just throwing more fast balls in different
locations. I think the ball that Alou hit was a pretty good pitch. He's hot right now, I
guess he's locked in. So sometimes you've got to give credit to the hitters. Not always
the hitters get a bad pitch, sometimes they get a good pitch. He kept his composure and
kept pitching the way he wanted to pitch. 
 
Q. Sandy, was there ever a time in the early to mid-90's that you felt you would always
be jinxed with injuries, and how have you dealt with the fact that those years were kind
of taken away from you?
 
 SANDY ALOMAR: Well, in 1990 when I was Rookie of the Year, I thought I had the whole
world in front of me. And '91, '92, 93 -- I can keep going -- I was very disappointed
because I was plagued with many injuries and it was kind of frustrating. I kept asking God
to give me the health. And I'm glad I'm healthy right now. I thought it was unfair that
every year I had injuries and I couldn't improve my talent. I came through the San Diego
Minor league system, and everybody thought it was going to be great behind the plate, but
I didn't have a chance to perform. I'm glad that I'm healthy now, I can show the whole
world that I can play baseball and I'm a good catcher.  
 
Q. Do us a favor and rate your three biggest hits of the year, All-Star Game --
 
 SANDY ALOMAR: I don't feel like the All-Star Game, because it's an exhibition game,
it's fun to be in front of your home fans, but at Camden Yards, the homerun against
Rivera, gave us a chance to stay in postseason an extra day. The base hit, the win against
Baltimore. And to clinch the division against New York, those are the three biggest hits I
had this year. 
 
Q. Sandy, the four-run inning, all four hits against Brown were bouncers, were you
hitting pretty good sinkers to get those kind of hits?
 
 SANDY ALOMAR: I can only speak for myself. The one I hit, I was middle-in. I was lucky
enough to get a be looking inside, he threw the ball where I was looking and I put good
wood on it. The other guys I felt they were having good sinkers, the ball that Brown hit
he chopped it into the ground, so it went over the pitcher's head. 
 
Q. The homerun you hit 2 and 0 count, what were you looking for and what did you hit?
 
 SANDY ALOMAR: To be honest with you, I was looking for a high pitch, because if I try
to swing low pitches against Kevin, I don't think a right hander has a good chance to hit
against Kevin Brown if you're looking low. You have to make him bring the ball up. I got a
high ball, I don't know if it was a sinker or slider, I know I hit it, but I don't know if
it was a little cutter or a sinker, but it was a pitch high strike. 
 
Q. Sandy, looked like from the third inning on you started going a lot more off speeds,
what was your thinking?
 
 SANDY ALOMAR: Well, I didn't want to fall in the pattern. I wanted to give the hitters
a different view every single at bat. I wanted -- I didn't want the hitters to hit the
same pitch over and over. I wanted them to have something in their mind that these. I
think it put a thought to the hitters. We tried to get a little more speed, finish up with
more fast balls. 
 
Q. Is he always effective with his off speed stuff?
 
 SANDY ALOMAR: If he keeps the ball low and hits the corner, he's very effective. He has
a good chance to be like Greg Maddox. He hits the corners very well. 
 
Q. What do you think with all the talk we've heard with Charlie Johnson's throwing, can
you throw as good as he can?
 
 SANDY ALOMAR: Well, let me tell you this, if I was healthy and -- I already have six
knee surgeries in my left knee. When I came up, when I was 22, 24 years old I used to
throw from my knees, had a great arm. Many injuries has slowed me down. I think Charlie
Johnson is the best throwing catcher that I've seen. I'm impressed with him because he's a
tall guy, and getting off the ground so quick, and making such accurate throws. He's
probably the best throwing catcher I've seen, him and Rodriguez. 
 
Q. What's your approach in these clinch situations, do you change it at all?
 
 SANDY ALOMAR: I try to be patient. I try to be patient, because something that I had in
the past, when I'm impatient I either swing at a bad pitch or only see one pitch. So I
just try to be patient, make sure that I get the pitch that I want to and just relax. This
is a fun game. This is just a game, this is not something else, you know. It's not like
the world is ending tonight. You go out there and have fun. And I think the best thing
happenings with the players have fun, and go out there and enjoy yourself. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT