PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2012
Alan Morin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you just talk a little bit about your round today?   
ALAN MORIN:   Frustrating, that's the first word that comes to mind, just frustrating.   I hit it really good and had a nice game plan going into the holes.   I hit my marks.   I hit a couple of loose shots, went kind of‑‑ just I missed some putts.   
It's really a round today that should have been about four shots better.   It's just as good as I hit it today and putted, I hit a lot of good shots.   It was just frustrating because I could be‑‑ it should be such better scoring than what it is right now.   
Yet, it's a fabulous experience.   Joost played well.   Getting paired with him, just, you know, when he catches fire and starts playing great, and then cameras are around, how can you beat it.   
   
 Q.   That experience of him starting off really well and just playing outstanding, how did the crowd get‑‑ did you see bigger crowds out there?   
ALAN MORIN:   It seemed like more people started showing up in the afternoon over on the front nine probably when we had about four or five holes left, there was a lot more people out there.   And then all of the cameras started showing up, he birdied, 4 and 5 to get to 8 and then I thought I was going to run away with it after that to be honest would you tell.   He's still playing good, swinging great.   Just made a couple of mistakes coming in but he's playing good.   Just getting paired like that and being in that kind of environment is really‑‑ just an experience that‑‑ it's rare.   It's very rare.   
   
 Q.   What does it mean as a club professional being able to play in this event to you?   
ALAN MORIN:   It means everything.   It shows that we not only can work at our golf courses and deal with our members and take care of our members and teach our members, but we also find time to work on our own games and just show that‑‑ I like that we are able to show that we can also play golf.   We are just not sitting inside answering the phones.   It's nice to represent and let everybody else know that we can play golf, too.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT