GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 28, 2015
Jason Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's this summer been like for you?  Obviously you got traded, you thought you were maybe going closer to home for you to Philadelphia, but now you come over here and what's it like?
JASON THOMPSON: Well, it was a crazy month of July, being with one organization for the past seven years, and the situation with that with seven different coaches, over 180 teammates and the list goes on, and just instability with that situation, and then going to a team that was very young and rebuilding and a team I grew up watching, so it was a lot to put in, and the next thing you know, I end up with the world champs.
It's a surreal situation, and then being here for the past couple weeks, just knowing how the different organizations have been, you know, they brought me in with open arms when I first got here at Golden State, and it's been a great experience.
Q. Has Steve Kerr talked to you about what your role is going to be on the team for this season?
JASON THOMPSON: Well, we talked about just different things.  Obviously that's going to be more talked about in training camp and things like that, but he knows the ability that I have.  He's seen me play since before I was drafted, and over my years in Sacramento, when he was with Phoenix and obviously playing with Golden State and playing each other four times.  He knows what I can bring to the table offensively and defensively, and what happens with the future is obviously going to determine what he wants.
Q. Jason, what's it like being the new kid in class say just with pretty much the rest of the team bringing everybody back, and also what can you sense about the chemistry that already exists here?
JASON THOMPSON: Well, yeah, it's a little different because, one, the team I was with was kind of a rival and a division team.  You know, but it's been -- like I said, a good situation, coming in with the guys, being here three weeks before training camp, something I really haven't kind of done before, but just getting used to my teammates and the system that Coach Kerr does offensively and defensively, but like you said, it's kind of tough.  Like you said, with being new to this organization but kind of a vet, going into my eighth season, everything is brand new, first time being on a different team.  Like you said, everything is new and getting used to it.
But like you said, it's exciting, and it's a different situation, especially going with a team that just won a championship.
Q. Jason, what was it like for you to kind of follow another team that was in Northern California that when you started with the Kings was in a pretty similar boat, to see them go all the way to the championship and then to now be a part of that team that you probably followed from the side?
JASON THOMPSON: Yeah, well, you could definitely see -- remembering when Coach Nelson was a coach and playing against those guys.  I know the guy that got drafted here was Anthony Randolph, and then the next year Steph was drafted, and then I had Tyrese.  So just knowing that, like you said, seeing the outside looking in with this organization and how it is is a process to get better, and stability is most important.  Like you said, with draft picks and different trades, you've seen the team developing, and then once you got -- you had a good coach and from top to bottom with the organization, when it's good, you can see it work.
I wish that was the case maybe with my years in Sacramento, but now I'm in a great situation, and I'm learning something new each day.
Q. I was just curious, you were talking about just this new situation, brand new team for the first time.  Playing with Steph and Klay, what do you anticipate that being like?
JASON THOMPSON: Well, it's definitely good to be on the same team and have to be on the defense and have to worry about those guys.  Obviously they both bring a lot of attention when it comes to on the ball, so as bigs, there's going to be a lot of openings, especially when they're coming off screens and getting doubled.  Definitely going to find ways offensively to get open and make it easier for them and make it easier for me and this team, as well.
Like you said, they draw so much attention, you know, behind the three and coming off of screens and stuff like that, and that's where I can find different avenues to make myself aggressive and help out the team.  That's going to work out both ways.
Q. J.T., most guys in the league when they get traded to Philly these days are not very excited, but you were excited; that's your hometown team.  The stuff I saw on Twitter, were there any mixed emotions at all despite the fact they were struggling like they have the past couple years?  What was your first reaction?
JASON THOMPSON: Well, for me when the trade went down to going to Philly, it was kind of bittersweet because, like you said, it was a team that I grew up watching, but I kind of know from the outside looking in how the situation is.  It's rebuilding.  You don't want to be a veteran guy going into a rebuilding situation.
But just like any guy in the league, any blessed situation that you come upon, you've got to make the best of it, so I feel like that's what I did.  If Philly was my destination for the season, I was going to make the best of the opportunity and the role that I was going to make it, and Golden State was knocking at the door and making the trade and things like that, you know, it was a no-brainer to be in a top-class organization.
You know, for me, I haven't been to the Playoffs in my seven-year career, so that's definitely -- hoping to end, obviously, this season and definitely just looking to be around a winning organization and just a winning atmosphere.
Q. From your social media it seems like you have an interest in fashion, and I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit about that and also if you'd talked to Iguodala about that.
JASON THOMPSON: Yeah, it's definitely something over the years that I feel like I've gotten into.  As the NBA and NBA family, we've done stuff over All-Star Weekend where you have the NBA fashion show and things like that.  You know, coming into the league, I think, as a rookie, those were the times where they kind of changed the dress code and all that type of stuff, and now they're starting to bring more fashion to it.  So for me I can honestly say I'm not as big maybe as Andre is, but definitely intrigued how the fashion sense is, and I like the fact that the NBA is involved with fashion.  I'm trying to learn and trying to get up on Andre's swag.
Q. You mentioned the trade to Philly and being a veteran going into a potential rebuilding situation.  Did they have any communication with you about what your status was going to be there, that you might be moved again?  Did you talk much with them at all after the trade?
JASON THOMPSON: Yeah, I talked to the GM and all those guys, and I don't think it was a thing where they were just trying to move me.  I think they respected what I've done in this league and respect my situation of knowing that they're in a rebuilding situation.  You know, when other teams were asking for me and things like that, they were welcoming, not saying, oh, we want you -- you're not allowed to leave and all that type of stuff, too.  They welcomed me with open arms to make myself have a good situation with my career.  I definitely appreciate them for that type of situation.
So we did talk.  It wasn't a thing where, oh, he's traded here and let's get rid of him.  But it was a thing where you have teams asking for you, and here are the next steps if you want to take that next step.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT