WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2017
Martin Flores
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Here with Martin Flores.  You started the week 139 and incredible final stretch here, moved to 119.  Talk about how aware you were of what you had to do on the final stretch to hopefully lock-up a spot on the Top 125.
MARTIN FLORES: I was very aware of it.  I knew exactly what I needed to do, especially when I was at the 15th fairway, the par 5.  I knew I needed two more and I was fortunate to get three.  I'm extremely happy.
Q. You said that you talked to a close friend.  You weren't going to name drop, someone we would be familiar with gave you some great advice.
MARTIN FLORES: He just said that I don't have to be perfect, that I just have to be efficient, and that played out through my head all day today and, you know, just a great friend and I owe him everything.
Q. Nothing more efficient than a hole-in-one.  Let's take a look at the highlights, pick you up on the 16th.  About 172 yards, adjusted 165.
MARTIN FLORES: Just hit a little 8-iron after seeing Cam hit his 8-iron.  I hit it perfect.  Hoping it was the right number.  Watch it go in --
Q. Even more fun the second time?
MARTIN FLORES: Oh, man.  I didn't know I could jump that high and I'm not even jumping that high.
Q. You knew at this point that was pretty much exactly what you needed to work your way in.  Then you had the 8-footer for birdie on 18.  This reaction with everything.
MARTIN FLORES: Yeah.  I just knew I needed to make it.  I knew it.
Q. This is your first time back to the FedExCup Playoffs since 2014.  You're getting a little emotional right now.  Talk about what's going through your mind to be able to perform when you needed to.
MARTIN FLORES: A lot of hard work and obviously you want --
Q. Means a lot.
MARTIN FLORES: Yeah.
Q. Congratulations.  Lot of fun to watch you out here.  We look forward to seeing you next week in New York.
MARTIN FLORES: Yes.
Q. Clutch finish as I've seen a guy trying to make the Top 125.  What was going through your mind when you walked off 15, missed that birdie?  You had to make something happen the last three holes.
MARTIN FLORES: I did.  But, again, I didn't press, which is a lot of what I've done in the past.  I was really thankful that I got to watch Cam hit first because that kind of changed a little bit of how hard I was going to hit my 8-iron.
He had 8-iron and went really far.  I just -- it was a great -- phenomenal shot and part luck.  Very thankful it went in.
Q. 17 you had a really good look there and missed and birdie 18, the toughest hole on the golf course.  That was pretty clutch, too.
MARTIN FLORES: You know, that whole thing getting me all week.  Had a fantastic drive all the way to the bottom, almost too far.  I had a great wedge and I couldn't have asked for an easier putt.
But, under the circumstances, I knew I needed to make it somehow, some way, and put a great stroke on it.  Buried it right in.
Q. What are the emotions right now, little wait, it's not official yet, what's going through your mind?
MARTIN FLORES: Just grateful to all my support, coaches and you know, just very thankful.  Been working really hard and it was great to see it come out today.
Q. Everybody was happy, your caddy was happy, your family and friends over there, big smile on your face.  This feels great, doesn't it?
MARTIN FLORES: It does.  Whether I get it or not, I did everything I could today and I'm really proud of how I played.
Q. Little bit of emotions in the CBS interview.  What caused those emotions?
MARTIN FLORES: Lot of hard work.  You know, just lot of blood, sweat and tears and, you know, this game will beat you down sometimes and you'll have a lot of struggles and when things finally go how you envision in your mind you see all your hard work payoff and especially I think the emotions really come from the sacrifices your family makes, traveling all the time or being away, missing a lot of things and to have them see it, I'm sure they saw it, it was awesome.
Q. What's going through your head before the putt on 18?  What did you do to maybe clear the thoughts or what were you thinking over the putt?
MARTIN FLORES: Just kept telling myself, "You have to make it.  I don't care what you have to do, just find a way to make it" and I was able to go through my process and how I've been doing the whole day and I was able to put a pure stroke on it and buried it.
Q. During the week, during today, how much math are you doing or how much factoring in, I got to do this or do better?
MARTIN FLORES: I don't ever push it aside.  I embrace it because I think if you try to -- not do something, that makes it harder.  I was very aware of where I was all day but I knew that I needed to be somewhere inside the Top-10, have to.  So I was able to get off to a great start and I was able to just keep it going all day and just a fantastic day.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT