WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 3, 2014
Martin Flores
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We would like to welcome Martin Flores into the interview room, 3‑under par 69 and currently one shot back of our leader.   Martin, talk about the round today.   I know not the finish you wanted but a solid effort.
MARTIN FLORES:   Yeah, it was a great day.   I played really, really well.   I drove the ball extremely well, even though I had a hiccup on 16 and 17. 
I was very pleased with the day.   That's the first time I've ever played in the final group, felt great.   I was really aggressive.   I wanted to go out there and go get it and, you know, I want to do the same thing tomorrow. 

Q.   Will it be fun tomorrow or will there be a lot of pressure? 
MARTIN FLORES:   It will be just like it was today.   My mind‑set doesn't change.   I know there is a lot more pressure tomorrow.   I'm sure there will be more nerves, I'm sure I will be a little nervous, but I was nervous today.   That's not going to change anything that I've done. 

Q.   Did any of that creep in on 18 on the drive? 
MARTIN FLORES:   No, not really.   I mean, I don't see why‑‑ I didn't look at a leaderboard all day.   I just thought that was irrelevant, because there are so many good players out here that if you're not attacking and trying to move forward, you can get passed. 
So I didn't even know where I was.   I knew I was playing well.   But, you know, I just didn't think the leaderboard was important, and I hooked it in the water‑‑ hit a great approach after that, and I gave myself a look at 4 and I was happy. 

Q.   What do you consider the best chance you've had to win a tournament so far, if you think you had one?
MARTIN FLORES:   John Deere last year.   I shot 63 in the last round and was 1‑shot out of a 3‑way playoff. 
Spieth holed that bunker shot, and I was waiting in the caddy tent with‑‑ I still had all my stuff on and my clubs were sitting next to me, and as soon as he holed that, I picked up my stuff and went straight to the airport and barely caught my flight. 

Q.   Have you had any tournaments where you got to, say, the last hour and the last three or four groups and still there and felt that?
MARTIN FLORES:   I guess not really.   The Greenbrier two years ago, I think I finished fourth or fifth, but I didn't have an opportunity to win that tournament.   I just didn't play well enough that last day.   I really thought I had a chance to win the John Deere, you know, and I just got beat by three great players. 

Q.   The leaderboard, not looking at it today, did you get a sense of what was going on before you tee'd off in terms of the number of low scores out there? 
MARTIN FLORES:   When I was eating lunch, I saw Rory, he was like 7‑under.   I don't know what he finished, but he was like 7‑under for the day, and when I went through the pin sheet with my caddy on the range, we were talking about, you know, where the tees were, where the pins were, so, you know, the weather was beautiful.   You can't ask for a better day. 
Definitely the opportunities were out there, for sure. 

Q.   There have been some guys that have kind of come from back of the pack or whatever to win this year.   Do you feel like you're ready to win this time? 
MARTIN FLORES:   Absolutely.   I don't see why not.   Why not me?   You know?   I've been working really hard, feeling great about my game.   I'm going to go out there and attack.   If I win, I win if I don't, I don't.   I'm going to keep working until I do. 

Q.   I didn't see 12, was that a putt or a chip? 
MARTIN FLORES:   That was a putt.   I was fortunate to be in that position.   You know, the wind was left to right and down, and so I was trying to hit a cut 3‑wood and ride the wind.   I overdid it and put myself behind a tree and hit what I thought was one of the best shots of the day, a high‑cut 9‑iron from 174 yards or 160 yards, and it landed on the front and it was moving pretty good, but it hit the dead center of the hole, so it was a bonus. 

Q.   You never sniffed bogey at that point all day.   Very steady, and then driver on 8, I'm thinking, was that on the green or the fringe? 
MARTIN FLORES:   It was just on the fringe.   I would say it was probably about 3 inches, very close. 

Q.   My point is being the weekend no less and all of the sudden knocking in a nice putt on 11 and the big one on 12, did you find your adrenaline pick up at all?   Was it harder to stay in the moment like you talked about? 
MARTIN FLORES:   I didn't think so today.   I was so into what I was doing.   I just kept telling myself, let's focus on this shot, let's stay, basically, get in your book, the yardage book, go through what you're doing, talk through the shot.   I didn't really feel a lot of adrenaline, just because I was basically oblivious to everything around me.   I wasn't really paying attention to anything except me and my caddy and what we were doing.   I guess if I was more conscious of everything that's around me, probably so, but not today. 

Q.   (Question about playing with Cabrera). 
MARTIN FLORES:   He was great to the play with.   I know he didn't play his best, but what the a great, free‑flowing swing.   I played with him last year at Congressional, and he's just great. 

Q.   You were talking about kind of being in the moment and being with your caddy.   Is that kind of unusual for you? 
MARTIN FLORES:   Not at all.   I just made a much harder effort to be into it.   As far as paying attention to my business, not‑‑ because I had never been in a final group.   I didn't know what it was going to be like, what to expect.   So I just went out there and acted like it was the last day and I wanted to go get it.   I want to do that tomorrow. 
THE MODERATOR:   Martin, thank you, sir.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT