WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 2014
Martin Flores
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We will go ahead and get started.   Like to welcome Martin Flores, another solid round at the Wells Fargo Championship.   Talk about what's been going well for you in the first two rounds and we'll take some questions. 
MARTIN FLORES:   First of all, mentally I've been patient and comfortable on this golf course.   It just seems to fit my eye.   I don't know what it is but consequently I've driven the ball pretty well and it's given me a lot of short irons on the greens that have been firm in some areas, also "holed" some putts, so it's been pretty good. 

Q.   Anything "unlocked" for you this week, in your game?
MARTIN FLORES:   I don't think so.   I've been practicing really hard for quite some time, and I have shown a lot of progress at practice, and I would say over the last 7 or 8 events, I have four of the top‑20s, out of last six events, but I haven't kicked it over.   I've had spurts where the rounds are petty good and I've messed it up a little bit but I just haven't produced what I've been doing in practice in the tournaments and now it's starting to show. 
I need to continue to be patient and let things unfold. 

Q.   So when you say "kicked it over"?
MARTIN FLORES:   Putting four solid days together.   It's not easy to do but when you're playing against the best in the world, you need to be sharp for the majority of that time. 

Q.   What would it be like to, come Sunday, have a chance to win this? 
MARTIN FLORES:   Through 36 I'm in great position.   You know, I've tried to refuse to think about winning because it's a product of, as they always say, (Away from mic). 
I just try to go out there each day and play my best.   And be very, very patient, like I said before, because a lot of times in the past, I've tried to be too perfect, and for some reason this sport doesn't really work out that way.   I just want to keep doing what I'm doing and focus on tomorrow and go out there and play really well tomorrow.

Q.   On the eagle on No. 11, what was your reaction when you saw that go in? 
MARTIN FLORES:   I'm pretty level, so I actually got made fun of because I didn't give any reaction.   Brian Harmon, his caddy, said, "Well, I guess I'll go pick it up out of the hole" because I didn't do anything.   I actually thought the ball stopped.   I thought it was long, because it was behind the pin, and I couldn't see it roll so I just started walking, I had my head down and I was thinking, that's a nice shot, let's go make it, and then all of the sudden I heard the cheers so kinda did one of those!   It was a great start to the day. 

Q.   What was your yardage there? 
MARTIN FLORES:   I think I had 105, 108, something like that.   I had a 56‑degree sand wedge and I was trying to use‑‑ there was a backstop behind it, a little pitch of slope so I was trying to use that to bring it back toward the pin and it worked out perfect. 

Q.   Is that the way you normally are? 
MARTIN FLORES:   Yeah, I'm pretty "chill" you know.   I may not be that on the inside, but outwardly it looks like that a lot of the time.   Overall, I don't get too up or too down.   It's a tough, tough game and you get beat up a lot.   I try to enjoy the good things that happen and just keep battling the things that I struggle with sometimes. 

Q.   You talked aboutpracticing harder, and all that.   Is there one thing that you've been working on or is it a concerted effort? 
MARTIN FLORES:   I'm just trying to become a complete player.   I've worked really hard on my wedges and my short game and putting, and to become a more consistent driver of the golf ball.   The best players in the world are complete players, so I've been working on‑‑ I've been really trying to balance my practice.   Not really focusing so hard in one area, and that's really helped me. 

Q.   Have you led after 36 holes in the clubhouse? 
MARTIN FLORES:   I don't think so. 

Q.   So this is uncharted territory for you tomorrow? 
MARTIN FLORES:   It's pretty cool. 

Q.   Is this where being "chill" will work in your favor? 
MARTIN FLORES:   Just who I am.   I don't know if it's going to work in my favor, but it's just who I am. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Martin, good luck tomorrow. 
MARTIN FLORES:   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT