WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 1, 2014
Martin Flores
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Here with Martin Flores, who just posted his career best Wells Fargo Championship.   Talk about the windy afternoon.   What did you lean on the most in your bag to post that 67?   
MARTIN FLORES:   You know, I drove it really well.   That was really important, getting opportunities from the fairway and that led to good approaches and gave me some opportunities to get some looks at some birdies.   
   
 Q.   Your numbers so far this season, you have had four top‑20s in the last six starts.   Do you feel like you're starting to make some progress in your game right now?   
MARTIN FLORES:   Yeah.   I've been working really, really hard.   Things are starting to show signs of improving.   It never comes as quickly as you want, but I've played consistent the last six events.   Just ready to turn it on in the tournament.   
   
 Q.   Given the fact that you have been playing well and got off to this great start, what mentality do you take into the next round?   
MARTIN FLORES:   Same thing I did today, putting the ball the fairway, giving myself opportunities, you know, pick and choose things that I can go at; with the greens being firmer and new, you can't quite go at all of them.   
   
 Q.   7 birdies, 2 bogeys, 25 putts.   Your thoughts on how you played today?   
MARTIN FLORES:   I played fantastic.   Can't really complain about anything in my game.   Drove the ball well, which set up opportunities from the fairway, and that led to opportunities for birdies.   Pleased with everything, especially with how windy it was today.   
   
 Q.   The winds picked up in the afternoon.   Can you talk about the greens?   This is the first time they have been played and.   How they were in the competition?   How did they accept your iron shots, and how did they putt?   
MARTIN FLORES:   Overall they're great.   I know they're brand new, they're very firm, which is making the golf course a lot harder, so you definitely have to pick and choose when you can fire at something and when you can't.   You have to pick position on the greens.   Overall, they're good.   
   
 Q.   Take us through 17.   You have a new tee box there.   Some of the tees are gone that were behind the 16 green but you have a grandstand off to your right.   When you stand on that tee box and look at that green, is it any different, the new tee box?   
MARTIN FLORES:   Of course it's different, but I think they've softened the green a little bit and my first year here I know they played farther to the right, last year farther to the left.   
It's a tough hole, no matter how you look at it.   It's just a tough hole; that's all I'm going to say.   
   
 Q.   Martin, comments on 5‑under par start, great playing out there.   
MARTIN FLORES:   Thanks.   I was happy with how I played.   I drove the ball really well.   It gave me opportunities from the fairway, which in turn gave me a lot of opportunities for birdies on the greens.   Happy with how I played in the overall conditions.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the conditions.   They seemed gusty at times and 17, your ball came up and dropped back down a little bit.   
MARTIN FLORES:   You had to be committed to whatever shot you're playing and it just played tough all day, especially 17.   I tried to hit a cut 6 and didn't commit as well as I had on other shots today and I paid the price for it.   
   
 Q.   This tournament in recent years has been one of those tournaments where guys seem to come out of nowhere and win this thing.   You gotta like the fact that you're here after day one.   
MARTIN FLORES:   Yeah, pleased with how I played, good position in the tournament.   Just have to go out there and do what I did today, tomorrow.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT