JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 14, 2013
Martin Flores
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Did you get everything out of it or did you leave some out there?   
MARTIN FLORES:   A little of both, I believe.   I hit a few tee shots that put me in tough positions and I made some nice par saves, and I hit a few close that I didn't make.   At the end of the day it all evens out, I think.  
   
 Q.   A good week from start to finish.   You put four good rounds together.   You have to be proud of that?  
MARTIN FLORES:   I am.   Four good rounds in the 60s is great.   I've been working really, really hard.   This year has been tough, but the results haven't' come.   It was nice to come together today.  
   
 Q.   I followed you for the first time this year at Valero.   You played great there.   Saw you at Greenbrier last week.   The game is starting to come around, isn't it?   
MARTIN FLORES:   Yeah, it is.   All I can do is work hard and try to do the best I can and hopefully the results will come.  
   
 Q.   Are you excited about the rest of the year?   
MARTIN FLORES:   I am.   Hopefully a good finish here gets me in the British.   If not, then we'll just play next week.  
   
 Q.   So you're going to wait around, you've got the passport ready to go just in case?   
MARTIN FLORES:   I don't even know.   I've got to look.   Yeah, I'd be really excited about that for that opportunity.  
   
 Q.   Great week, keep it going.   Good job.   
MARTIN FLORES:   You always want something deep, especially out here when birdies are just everywhere, so it was nice to put something together today.  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts right now, were you looking at the leaderboard?  
MARTIN FLORES:   I played golf until I got on‑‑ well, I made birdie on 17.   I looked at it to say where I was.   And I thought I hit a pretty good shot on 18, and I was trying to ride that ridge, hit a hook in there and ride the ridge down to the hole.   Unfortunately, I left it a hair out to the right, probably three yards.   I put myself really far away from the pin.  
   
 Q.   Thoughts now?   
MARTIN FLORES:   I guess just wait.   That's all I can do.   I did my best today, and I'm happy with what I did so far.   So hopefully I'll get another opportunity.  
   
 Q.   Regardless what happens, you want to play your best golf again.   I'm sure you're thrilled about that?  
MARTIN FLORES:   Yeah, absolutely.   I played a good round.   I was super pumped about how I struck the ball and just got the ball in the hole.   So I've been working really hard and the results finally came.  
   
 Q.   With the ground that you had to make up, was the objective just to go put up a number and make them shoot at it, so to speak?   
MARTIN FLORES:   My goal is‑‑ I mean, I don't really ever put out a number in my head.   But today, I did.   I put 10‑under par, just because I knew my game was solid.   I mean, you can try your best to shoot that kind of number, but you have to have a lot of things happen, and fortunately it was on my side today.  
   
 Q.   Did you see this coming this weekend?   Did you see something like this was out there and possible?  
MARTIN FLORES:   I knew it was out there, and I knew that I was playing well, so I knew I had a good opportunity to do it.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible) are you aware that you have to win to get in?   
MARTIN FLORES:   Oh, you do?   No, I didn't know that.  
   
 Q.   Sorry to be the bearer of bad news.   
MARTIN FLORES:   No, it's fine.   It is what it is.  
   
 Q.   Do you know if you have your passport with you?   
MARTIN FLORES:   No, I don't know.   I might.   If I get in, that would be great; if I don't, well, you know.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT