FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 6, 2013
Martin Flores
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Martin, 4-under par.   Good solid round of golf.   Double bogey at 14.   More the lie than anything else.   Tell me about the 18th hole.   The water was a lot deeper there than you thought, wasn't it?  
MARTIN FLORES:   Yeah.   Lie was definitely good enough for me to hit.   I could have gotten it on the green for sure.   It was floating barely on top of the water.   I didn't have any footing whatsoever, so it would have been extremely dicey.   
So, I had been hitting my irons very well and I've been putting very well.   I figured just give myself a fairway shot and see if I can't get it up and down.  
   
 Q.   What is about it the golf course that didn't seem to be that tough out there?   The fairways -- there wasn't a lot of wind, the greens weren't that firm, but the scoring just isn't that low.  
MARTIN FLORES:   You know, I'm not too sure.   I didn't drive it as well as I would have liked to.   I putted extremely well and I gave myself a lot of opportunities from whatever situation I put myself in.   So, I think maybe the wind coming out of a different direction, coming out of the north, a lot of holes were in the wind that typically aren't.  
   
 Q.   Great playing.   Keep it up over the week.  
MARTIN FLORES:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   Sounds a little dicey on the last hole for you.  
MARTIN FLORES:   I got aggressive with my tee shot and then I was trying to start it in the water and cut it back into the fairway, and I just -- it just stayed straight and, you know, kicked really close to the water so the footing wasn't there for me to hit the shot.   So I do the smart thing and just give myself an opportunity to make a par.  
   
 Q.   How does it feel coming away from it?   Do you feel -- is it a good feeling coming off, being able to save it?  
MARTIN FLORES:   That was huge.   Huge.   Absolutely.   It's a tough hole already.   Par is a good score on that hole, and to make a mistake like that, save it with a par is a bonus.  
   
 Q.   I don't pretend to know your history here.   Have you been here a lot and have you had success, or is this --  
             MARTIN FLORES:   This is my 3rd year.   I missed the cut my first year, then I finished the round 15th place, probably.   Not sure but somewhere around that area.   I had a great last round last year, shot 65.   I like the golf course.   It's very, very challenging, so, you know, it fits my eye.   I like a lot of things about it.  
   
 Q.   The start here being good could be good for you.   Feel like you've played better towards the end of the tournament before?  
MARTIN FLORES:   Getting off to a good start is very, very important.   So, you know, I took -- I'll take a lot of positives from today and move forward.  
   
 Q.   Just coming into this tournament, coming off your last stop, are you riding a little bit of that momentum now?  
MARTIN FLORES:   I've been working really hard and haven't seen a lot of the results.   You know, I had goods things at the Byron Nelson and went to the Colonial.   Put myself into position there.   So, I didn't have as good of a Sunday as I'd like, but there was a lot of positives from that and a lot of good things I've been working on.   I had a week off last week, it was five in a row, time to take a little rest.   I feel good.  
   
 Q.   As far as playing the front-9 at 3-under, what was working right on the front-9 about your game?  
MARTIN FLORES:   Really just, you know, I hit a lot of good approach shots and I putted well.   Anytime you can putt well, I can make up for mistakes or, you know, you can make a lot of birdies.   Putting I seem to hit my lines very well today.  
   
 Q.   To come back from I guess the double on 14.   What happened there?  
MARTIN FLORES:   You know, actually missed it in a place I thought I could.   I hit it a little long left in the bunker.   I was trying to draw it into the center of the green and I just turned it over a little more.   When I got in the bunker, it was plugged.   I had no chance to hit it at the pin, you know.   You're talking 1 out of 100 probably to keep it on the green from there.  
So, I tried to do the smart thing and hit it out to the front green.   Unfortunately it rolled off.   I had about 100 feet.   I putted there up probably about ten feet and I horseshoed it and walked away with a 5.   It was a rough break, but I shouldn't have hit it there in the first place.   So, I did all I could from where I was.  
  
 Q. But you came back and finished solid.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT