NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 25, 2015
Martin Flores
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You talked about taking what comes.  You just played smart.  (Indiscernible.)  Continue that theme?
MARTIN FLORES: Yeah, did the same thing again on the same hole.
Q. Really?
MARTIN FLORES: Yeah.  Knocked it back on the fairway.  This time I made bogey, but just I tried to take what the golf course was giving me.  I didn't try to do too much.
I just tried to put the ball in play and then try to give myself a look of some kind out there.  I had a couple bogeys, which I think is kind of inevitable unless you play phenomenal golf.
So very happy with the way I played.
Q. You think the challenge for you, or anybody, I guess, is not get too high, too low, sort of the mental side of this at this point?
MARTIN FLORES: You know, I'm pretty level as it is, so that's not really a challenge.  Everybody, you know, has a battle within themselves of some kind when they play.
It's overcoming that battle and going out there and executing golf shots.
Q. Coming into these finals after playing the PGA TOUR for a few years, any sense of humbling or an attitude adjustment about it coming back to this tour?
MARTIN FLORES: I don't think so.  I think the game is humbling in itself.  Every year if you don't go out and prove yourself, you're going to get beat up a little bit.  Sometimes take some steps, a step back, to take a couple leaps forward.
I am just going to keep learning and keep trying to improve on my game and just see where that leads.
Q. Pretty patient.  You say you're pretty level.  Just don't get too excited or too down or yourself; is that fair?
MARTIN FLORES: Outwardly it's probably fair.  Internally, you know, you can beat yourself up a little bit.  But I try to do a good job of keeping a good attitude.
Sometimes it's a struggle, but this game is tough sometimes.
Q. With the start of nine straight pars, typically out here you got to make a lot of birdies.  Just wondering how that affected you, if it did at all.
MARTIN FLORES: I was very pleased with nine pars.  Most courses that's not good, but here I feel like anything around par or better is a really good number.
Nine pars means I'm doing something right starting out, especially with a lot of challenging holes.  So I just want to keep being consistent.
Q. Just a little bit talk about the consistency.  What is it that is working for you this week so far if you could pinpoint maybe one part of your game?
MARTIN FLORES: I think I've been very solid in the short game, but also hit it very well off the tee at times.  It's given me some shorter clubs into some holes, so hard for me to really nitpick what's really, really good.
Each part has been pretty solid.  Short game is always something that can save you when things are a little rough.
Q. Is that typically the strongest part of your game?
MARTIN FLORES: It usually is, yes.  Usually try to lean on your short game.  Not always going to hit it great.  Sometimes you need to come through with your short game.
Q. You've worked with Randy Smith.  Is still the case?
MARTIN FLORES: Yes.  Only coach I've ever had.  Randy and I have a great relationship, and hope it continues to be that way for many, many years.
Q. When did you start work with him?  How old were you?
MARTIN FLORES: I think I probably had my very first lesson around 16 probably.  Had a few in high school, you know, a handful in college.  Really the bulk of our work started when I turned pro.
Q. And you didn't have much formal instruction before?
MARTIN FLORES: No, not at all.
Q. So a guy like that, you been with him so long, is it more than just a swing?  Is it almost a mentor?  I don't want to say life coach, but helps without mental side of things too, or strictly swing, mechanics?
MARTIN FLORES: No, absolutely.  It's all parts of the game.  I rely on him for everything.  He does a good job of keeping me in line.  We try to do things together and learn together.
I love the kind of relationship we have.
Q. How would you describe his teaching philosophy?
MARTIN FLORES: Take what you have and try to make it better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT