NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 24, 2015
Martin Flores
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








(In progress.)
MARTIN FLORES: With how firms the greens are.  Got some good pin positions.  Just all around a tough golf course.  Just have to play really well.
Q. Placement?  I mean, off the tee...
MARTIN FLORES: You can get away with some stuff off the tee, but that's really going to impact how aggressive you can be going into the green.
So you can sort of get away with some, but, I mean, you're just trying to get it somewhere in the middle of the green depending on what situation you are.
Q. Put yourself in position, right, to get your card?
MARTIN FLORES: Oh, yeah.  I mean, I'm happy with the start.  A lot of golf left.  Most of this year I've played three good days, one terrible day.  Kind of how I've been.
So been trying to turn that around, have some more consistency.  I'm happy with how I did today, but past that I'm not really looking much ahead.
Q. How do you fight that when you've had that one bad round not to see like a slow train coming?  You've had a good one.  Do you start wondering when the bad one is coming, or just not allow yourself to go there?
MARTIN FLORES: No.  I expect to play good when I come out to play.  If I do somehow not play well, I accept it, learn from it, keep trying to improve.
Definitely don't come out expecting to play bad.  I don't think that's the right attitude.  But when things don't go your way, I feel like a good attitude goes a long way.
That's all I've been trying to do this year:  have a good attitude and learn and keep trying to progress in my game.
Q. Was there anything that was better today that you might have been struggling with the last couple weeks out there that you put in some good work maybe on the range earlier in the week?
MARTIN FLORES: Not particularly, other than I just played the game very well.  You know, I accepted -- when I was out of position, I accepted it, got it back in position, whether it was in the center of the green, you know.
For an example first tee shot of the day I hit it right up against the lip and it stayed right up into the lip.  I accepted it, chipped it out into the fairway, knocked it up by the pin about 15 feet, and made it.
Stuff like that.  So I just played the game very well.  I accepted bad things and capitalized on the good opportunities.
Q. Talk about No. 9 really quick.  You birdied the t hole of the day.
MARTIN FLORES: Yeah, it was great to finish like that.  You know, I had seen a number of players prior to the round -- you know, I would look over and see a lot of players, you know, it would be long of that pin for some reason.
Then I watched my playing competitor, Wes, hit past the pin, so I played for a little bit less yardage from the middle of the fairway and hit a great shot about five feet and made it.
It was a great finish.
Q. Distance and club?
MARTIN FLORES: The club was a sand wedge; distance was 112.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT