WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 15, 2015
Martin Flores
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What brings out best in you at the Wells Fargo Championship?
MARTIN FLORES:   One of those courses that kind of fits your eye.   Reminds me a lot of my home course, kind of a bigger version of Royal Oaks.   Certain courses kind of fit your eye.   This is one of them.

Q.   Lot of birdies this week, 12 birdies, 4 bogies.   What's been the key for you?
MARTIN FLORES:   Putting the ball in the fairway.   I've been driving it pretty well for the most part and then missing it in the right spots.   When you're doing that you're making a few putts, you know, it's been nice.

Q.   3rd place finish last year.   How much of that do you look back on during your first two rounds?
MARTIN FLORES:   I didn't think about it too much.   Obviously I draw a lot of confidence, you know, on this golf course from previous memories but this year is a new year so I feel like I'm playing very well.   I'm happy with where I'm at so far.

Q.   Martin, seems you put the ball in the fairway.   Is that the biggest key to your success today?
MARTIN FLORES:   I think missing it in the right spots.   When I didn't drive it in the fairway I wasn't in too much trouble.   I drove it left on 18, got a nice break.   But other than that I've been putting the ball in the fairway in the right spots so it's been really, really nice to have those short irons into some of the holes.

Q.   What is it about this golf course that you like so much?
MARTIN FLORES:   Just certain holes really fit my eye.   As I was telling my caddy, just reminds me a lot of Royal Oaks but just much bigger version of Royal Oaks.   Tree-lined.   When I just step on the tee I feel very, very comfortable out here.

Q.   Finally, last year you had a shot at winning, you shot 72.   Still good enough to get 3rd place. 
What do you take away from that event here last year that will benefit you this week?
MARTIN FLORES:   I think just handling being in there.   I'd say a few times every year I'm in it.   I really got in the hunt last year and learned a lot from that.   I think you can kind of draw from those experiences, some of those memories.   Good shots.   This is a new year so looking forward to Saturday and Sunday.

Q.   You want to start off talking about what went well for you today?
MARTIN FLORES:   A lot of things were nice today.   You know, I drove the ball in the fairway when I needed to and when I did miss the fairway I was in some spots where I can manage it.   Had a lot of shorter irons into a lot of the longer holes.   I made some putts.   So, everything was really, really nice.

Q.   Close to a good finish for a few weeks now.   Something that is going well?
MARTIN FLORES:   Really, I mean just everything starting to come together.   I mean there's been certain parts of my game that have been missing each and every week so I've been kind of just trying to be patient on when they're going to come together, whether it's putting one week or driving one week. 
It kind of -- I haven't had one poor round or poor stretch of 9 holes so really it's just I feel like it's starting to come together right now.

Q.   After bogeying 17 how important was that scramble on 18 to save par?
MARTIN FLORES:   Huge.   I got very lucky it didn't go in the water.   I hit a very bad tee shot and got really lucky and then like what I said before, I missed it in the right spot, right of the green to where I had plenty of green to work with to get it up and down.   I hit a great pitch and made the putt.   So, stuff like that is huge going into tomorrow.

Q.   3rd here last year.   What do you like about the place?
MARTIN FLORES:   I told my caddy that it reminds me a lot of Royal Oaks where I play at home but this is just kind of a bigger version of Royal Oaks. 
So, a lot of the holes just kind of fit my eye and, you know, I just feel comfortable when I step on the tee on every hole.

Q.   Martin, when you get going like you did on the front especially, what's that feel like when you're getting birdies on birdies?
MARTIN FLORES:   I hate to say the game is ever easy.   It's close to feeling like that at times.   You definitely appreciate when those little stretches come along.

Q.   Starting so early were the conditions more favorable for scoring early on?
MARTIN FLORES:   I would believe so.   It was not really much wind to speak of.   It was just little bit here and there but, for the most part, I mean the golf course played very generous, I thought.

Q.   Logjam up at the top.   Do you anticipate it staying that week for the weekend?
MARTIN FLORES:   It's tough to tell.   I guess we'll have to see what people do in the afternoon.   I don't know whether it's supposed to pick up or not.   The wind blows a little more in the afternoon.   We'll have to wait and see what happens this afternoon.

Q.You were in a similar situation here last year, I guess after Saturday.   What do you take from that?
MARTIN FLORES:   A lot of positive memories.   Lots of positives.   How to handle being in contention and how to handle myself.   So, those type things I think will help me going forward.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT