WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2014
Martin Flores
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Good week for you, and I like the way you hung in there, especially down the stretch, and gave yourself an opportunity those last three holes. 
MARTIN FLORES:   Yeah, you know, I just didn't have it today.   That's what I've been trying to work for is to have it for all four days and I fought really, really hard, and I kept telling myself, be patient, be patient, good things will come.   I had an outside chance, you know, I had a great save on 16.   That was huge!   I thought I hit a great shot into 17, and it went through and I just made a bogey on 18.   It's a tough hole, and I'm sick to my stomach that I lost, but it was a good week. 

Q.   10th hole, the chip, that got things going for you on the back nine. 
MARTIN FLORES:   It sure did.   Got off to a pretty poor start, being 2‑over through four, and I kept hanging in there, and when I made that, that was huge. 

Q.   This wasn't the Sunday you envisioned, but talk about your week because it was a pretty darn good week. 
MARTIN FLORES:   Yeah, it was a great week, actually.   Losing leaves kind of a sour taste in your mouth but J.B. played great, you know, gotta tip my hat to him.   I just didn't have it today. 
That's something I've been striving for, you know, having it for all four days, you know.   I believe that's what it takes to win.   I came close, you know, it was fun to get in the mix and have a chance to win. 

Q.   How much does this experience of being in the mix help you down the road? 
MARTIN FLORES:   I can only benefit from it, you know?   I've always wanted to win on a big stage and win some tournaments, so it can only help me for the future. 

Q.   When you chipped in on 10 there did that put a little pressure on? 
MARTIN FLORES:   Yeah, that was huge because that got me back in the tournament.   I got off to a really bad start being 2‑over through four.   I kept telling myself be patient, be patient, good things will come, good things will come, and when that went in, it was just‑‑ boy that was huge to get me back in the tournament. 

Q.   Seemed like overall the golf course made it difficult for you guys to gain traction, the only guy who blew up today was Furyk to start going really well. 
MARTIN FLORES:   I don't know when he tee'd off, but 7‑under today was a heck of a number.   I just had trouble getting the ball close.   The greens firmed up pretty good, so you had to be real, real precise with some of those bends.   It was just a tough course. 

Q.   Martin, you've held yourself beautifully this week on a championship golf course that's difficult.   What do you take away from today, the positives to get yourself into this position or maybe the disappointment that you're not holding a trophy? 
MARTIN FLORES:   You know, losing leaves a pretty sour taste.   I really wanted to win.   But, you know, I got in the mix, and I loved every second of it.   I can't wait to get back there.   So that just, you know, drives me to keep working really, really hard and keep working on the right things so that I can get back in there and get it done. 

Q.   How much belief did you gain about your game and about your career this week? 
MARTIN FLORES:   I already believed so much in myself.   I always thought not "if" but "when" in my mind.   I kept telling myself, be patient, be patient.   I got off to a terrible start.   So when I holed that shot in on 10, I just kept staying patient, and that is what helped me get it done. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Martin.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT