U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 2018
Alice Duan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You had a good start on the front nine, bogey-free.  
ALICE DUAN: Yeah, it was a good start.  Kind of like frazzled on the first hole because my caddie and I both forgot to get pin sheets, so I sent him running back like on the first fairway.  But it was good.  Hit a lot of good shots and had a couple opportunities, so yeah.  Did pretty well.   
 Q.  Talk about the back nine.  
ALICE DUAN: Back nine, I think like our pace kind of changed a little bit.  I like both sides, so it's not like I like one side better than the other, but I guess we kind of had some like timing issues, so I was trying to hurry.  But other than that, yeah, it was really good.  It's a nice course.   
 Q.  How did the course play today?  
ALICE DUAN: I think it was pretty fair.  There were a couple of pin positions that were like gettable, especially on the par-5s.  They were pretty friendly positions.  Yeah, I think the greens were a little faster than I expected on the front and then they slowed down on the back, but other than that, yeah, it was good.   
 Q.  You played in the Four-Ball earlier this year --  
ALICE DUAN: Yeah, I did.   
 Q.  Did that experience help you coming into this week?  
ALICE DUAN: Yeah, it definitely did with pace of play because I know you guys are really strict about that, so yeah.  And my sister played that event with me, and so she's like texting me this morning -- she woke up at like 3:00 this morning her time to say good luck and stuff.  Yeah, really supportive, and I think it really helped me to prepare for this.   
 Q.  And you're in good position after the first day of stroke play.  What's your mindset going into tomorrow?  
ALICE DUAN: Tomorrow, same thing.  Not much is going to change.  Just kind of not really trying to force anything because I know the course is kind of tough, so just taking my opportunities when I can and being patient otherwise.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT