NL DIVISION SERIES: CUBS v BRAVES
October 3, 2003
Eric Karros
Mike Remlinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You both have been kind of in this situation  -- a big game playoff situation.  Can each of you talk about whether it's different this time at all, how it might be different and also what advantage is it to have been through this before?
 
MIKE REMLINGER:  I think the difference is the excitement of the fans here in Chicago.  It's been quite a while for them.  And as far as having been here before, I think the only benefit to that is maybe knowing that it is going to be a little more electric and trying to find a way to keep yourself from getting out of control with your adrenaline. 
 
Q.  Does it give you guys more of an advantage (inaudible)?
 
MIKE REMLINGER:  I don't know if it gives a team more of an advantage.  I've said this before.  Having to sit in the visitors clubhouse, it's not real conducive to sitting around, but I think both clubs are ready.  They had a work out yesterday.  I don't think it's an advantage for one team or another, and at this point in the season, if you haven't figured out how to take a ground ball or take BP, you're a little bit of trouble. 
 
Q.  Mike, your teammate Maddux, do you think there is extra motivation for him to remember back when he played the Cubs and in particular now coming back here and pitching an important game?
 
MIKE REMLINGER:  I don't think having played for a team gives you extra motivation.  If you don't have motivation, you probably should be sitting home watching it on TV.  I think everybody knows what the goal is and the job at hand it.  Knowing Greg, he'll be ready to play.  He's going to come out and play the best game he can.  
 
Q.  Eric and Mike, can you talk about what atmosphere you expect in the ballpark tonight?
 
ERIC KARROS:  It's obviously going to be emotional.  I was in a bar today, and the people were all talking about where they've got the Cubs tickets, and "I paid X amount of dollars."  I was in there for about a half hour and nothing but Cubs talking the entire time.  I think that's representative of what it's going to be like tonight, the excitement, the anticipation, the emotion.  I don't know where else you find that in baseball to be honest with you.  Maybe St. Louis.  I know playing in LA, we had playoff games that didn't sell out; and to try to draw a comparison with any other club in the big leagues, like I said, I would be hard-pressed to find a better place to play.  
 
MIKE REMLINGER:  I feel the same way.  Our fans have been great all year.  Like Eric said, there is no comparison to the way our fans have been acting all year. 
 
Q.  Do you think the tag of "lovable loser" that the Cubs had for so many years, do you think having Dusty and you guys being here, that that label will go away a little bit?
 
MIKE REMLINGER I hope so.  I think part of that label will go after the postseason.  Now we're trying to get beyond a first round.  I have been saying for a while now I would like to see the media get behind the team.  I think what we have been doing on the field is a very different thing than they've seen for a long time.  
 
ERIC KARROS:  It's a marketing tool and "lovable losers" will be gone, and it will give the marking department something new to come up with next year. 
 
Q.  Mike, did you and Bako spend extra time doing scout work on Maddux?  Everyone knows about Maddux and what he does, but Bako catching him, you being his teammate, did you spend extra time?  
 
MIKE REMLINGER:  Not at all. .  
 

End of FastScripts...
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT