ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2018
Pauline Parmentier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. WOZNIACKI/P. Parmentier
6-0, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. When you saw the games go by 6-Love, or 5-Love, we were fearing a bit for you.
PAULINE PARMENTIER: Yes, me too.  It wasn't a very easy moment for me on the center court, especially after the beautiful beginning part of the tournament.
So it was a bit tough.  But she wasn't missing on anything, and I wasn't in my best physical shape.  I didn't make the difference.
And coming back from Strasbourg, I wasn't able to train enough.  These are small details, but on a match like this against somebody who doesn't give a single point, well, it's really tough.  I was looking at the score, and I thought, Oh, it's really awful.  I thought I should just leave (smiling).
But then I thought, Okay, I have to fight till the end.  And obviously I do have regrets, but at least leave in an honorable way, and it wasn't enough.  There was 15-30 point on the 5-3, and it wasn't enough.  She was really too solid, and I would have needed to be much fresher to be able to upset her.
But obviously the score was pretty hard.
Q. When you talk about the second set, what do you feel?  You feel like you're abandoned?  Even the public is against you?
PAULINE PARMENTIER: No, I think that the audience was kind of nice with me.  They were cool.  They really supported me to the end.
And then when I won the first game, I raised my arms and they laughed a bit, and I thought, Okay, well, at least 10 minutes of delight.
It's a really large court.  Our staff is very far away, so you do feel lonely, especially when you're not playing well.  I would have liked the end to be nicer, but it was still a great tournament.
Q. What motivated you to keep on fighting?
PAULINE PARMENTIER: Well, not much.  I tried to really get into it, but I think that it was really hard for me to win a single point, because she was really strong.
I tried to snatch point after point, and I thought she was really very rough.  I tried to hang in there and not leave with 6-Love, 6-Love, because it's awful.
Q. You felt that you were really in bad shape?
PAULINE PARMENTIER: No, I wasn't really aching, but I have just no energy left in my legs.  With that kind of opponent, you really have to shake her up.
What I can do with my energy is really great, but this time I didn't have enough.  I realized that I wasn't feeling that well.
But in the training this morning I felt not great, and I think that in the beginning I wasn't really up to standard.
Q. I don't know whether you have looked at the bottom of the draw.  There is a new girl of Roland Garros.
PAULINE PARMENTIER: No, I didn't really look at it.  I'm sorry.  The bottom part of the draw?  No, I don't really know.
Q. More generally, at the beginning of the season you were feeling a bit skeptical, and you managed to turn the situation over at the beginning of the tournament.  What do you feel for your future, the coming years and coming months?
PAULINE PARMENTIER: And the coming days.  No, I'm happy with my game.  I'm happy to have been able to enjoy things again and really feel good things and share nice moments on the court, because when you're at the end of your career, you don't want to leave for Australia, because we have been playing since we were very young, and in the end, you end up thinking that it's not that you hate the sport, but you have a very particular relationship.  It's not great.
But I have already managed to cope with that, and for the coming years, I'm not really good on grass.  We're still playing doubles.  Our match was interrupted earlier, suspended.  We have an exhibition match in Marseilles next month.  I'm going to try and rest before Wimbledon and then I'm going to play two tournaments on clay, and I'll be playing at the US Open this summer.
Q. Was this your last French Open?
PAULINE PARMENTIER: I don't know.  I don't think so.  I don't think so.  I'd like to tell you that.  But if I have a physical problem that drags me down, I won't come back.
When I left the court, I was cheered and they actually shouted out my name.  When I was 6-Love, 5-3.  And maybe I won't come back, but I'd like to be here again next year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT