ROLAND GARROS
May 30, 2014
Pauline Parmentier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. PARMENTIER/M. Barthel
      1‑6, 6‑1, 7‑5 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French.   
   
 Q.   A great moment, great emotions, the greatest moment in your career?  
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   Yeah, for sure it's the greatest moment in my career.   
    It's like so many emotions.   It's crazy.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us more about the match?   
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   Yeah, the beginning of my match was‑‑ how can I say, I was missing volume in my game, and then my points were not bothering her.   It was at the right height for her, and she would hit each point.   It was not easy, but I didn't want to give up.   
    Then I managed to play my game.   It was difficult to manage.   That is, at the beginning of the third set I had the impression that I was leading the game.   I was 15‑40, and then I missed three forehands that were not that easy.   But then, you know, I wouldn't miss them before in the match.  
    I thought, Anyway, that's the truth.   That's what you have to do.   And then, Oh, shit.   I've missed them.   I was loading time and I lost this game.   I had the impression I was not controlling anything any longer.   Not that easy.   
    Then afterwards I saw she was so tense, so tense, so nervous.   I thought, No panic.   She's very tense, very nervous, so relax, unwind, hit with your forehand.  
    And then, you know, on the double one she made back to 5‑4, that was huge.  
   
 Q.   Can you tell us, you know, with the crowd, the public, I mean, it was like a Davis Cup atmosphere at the end of the match.   Did you use this as well?   That is, the public.   
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   Well, yes, I knew that on Court No. 1 this type of atmosphere, it helped me a lot.   They were always with me.   There was a small group encouraging Mona, but otherwise, a good mindset, good atmosphere, and I really enjoyed it.  
   
 Q.   What about the medical timeout during the match?   Did you think that this would change the match or did you manage to not think about it?  
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   No, you know, she was seeing that I was feeling good.   She didn't have much.   She wanted perhaps to break my rhythm.   
    But, no, no, I didn't panic, because I thought, Yeah, that's okay.   It's 5‑Love, and, okay, she would break my rhythm.  
    But I was leading the game, so I didn't think, Oh, no, no, she's got something.   She's going to leave the courts.   No, I knew she wouldn't give up like this that easily.  
   
 Q.   Do you think that your opponents will look at you differently from now on?  
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   Don't know.   Hope so (smiling).   Maybe.   Maybe one day.   You know, until now they were saying they knew I could play good matches but it was not very regular.  
    Now I never give up.   I never give up.   So maybe they will change.   Yeah, maybe.   I don't know.  
    But then this being said, it's my thing.   I do my thing until the end of it.  
   
 Q.   Today are you not more aware of your strengths?  
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   Yes, I'm starting to do that.   Maybe I'm gaining confidence.   I never thought I would say this one day.  
    You know what?   Yesterday mainly when I was back home I watched several moments of my match, and I thought, Oh, shit; you play like hell.   It's never happened to me.   You know, I would never say that, think that.   I laughed about it, and I thought, Well, go for it.   You have skills.   
    Now I'm aware of this little by little.   You know.   Alex, she helps me a lot, and I gain confidence.   And with such confidence, well, of course, it helps.   
   
 Q.   So you said, Oh, shit; I play like hell.   That's what you said.   But when it was 5‑4, you laughed and you said, That's good.   Maybe I was wrong.   
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   Yeah.   Frankly, I was feeling that this thing was getting out of my control.   I was getting nervous.   And you know there was the Ola wave.   It was totally crazy.   
    And I thought, It's okay, it's okay.   Worse thing, you're going to be defeated.   Her ranking is a lot better.   It's third round Roland.   It's only pure happiness.   So I thought, Go for it.  
   
 Q.   You never had this distance to look at your match?   
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   No, it's true never happened to me before.   It's totally crazy.  
   
 Q.   There is a player probably you know of who got a wildcard?  
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   Who's that?   
   
 Q.   Alexia.   
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   Oh, I didn't know she's a wildcard as well.   But three weeks or three months ago our objective was Roland Garros, and she would say, you know, You should play well at Roland, but don't go deeper than I would go in the draw.   
    In the locker room she said, Watch out, watch out, I'm keeping an eye on you.   We were discussing this a month ago.   We said the round of 16.   I said, No, come on, you're kidding.  
    And now, yeah, I have reached the round of 16.   It's incredible.  
   
 Q.   Each time you have lost the first set and you managed to come back, so it's even more crazy, I'd say.   What's missing?   What do you miss?   Is it because it's difficult for you to step in on the courts and to be in the match immediately?  
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   Well, I'm in this match.   You know, but what I miss is intensity and to deploy my game immediately.  
    Maybe on Sunday we're going to practice for one set so that I'm warm before my match.   
    But I feel good.   I always feel I'm quite there, quite there.   But my forehand is a bit heavy, and these girls, it doesn't really bother them at all.   So I have to do even better than this because I'm moving deeper, and I don't want to lose my first set all the time like this.  
    So I'll have to work on this and I have to be ready from the word "go" and put as much intensity as I can when it starts.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT