ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2014
Pauline Parmentier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. PARMENTIER/R. Vinci 
      3‑6, 6‑3, 6‑2 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   I just wanted to ask you, how have you found it throughout your career dealing with the crowd at Roland Garros?  
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   Yeah, it was really good.   It's always really nice to play at home, and the crowd was with me today, so it was nice.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever found in the past that the crowd has been against you and has that been difficult to deal with?  
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   Against me today?   
   
 Q.   Not today but in the past.   
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   I have already, but we have to deal with this.   We played a few times in other countries, so we have to deal with this, but today was okay was for me, so it was good.  
   
 Q.   What about a French crowd?   Because, for example, last week Alize Cornet was competing in Strasbourg and the French crowd started to boo her.   Have you ever had a situation like that at all?  
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   No, not for me, but I didn't see the match last week, so I don't know.   
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please.   
   
 Q.   A general question.   Could you make the difference of one set, 3‑1 for Vinci and then after the second set and then the match for you, you know, the two parts, if you see what I mean?  
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   I felt I was not that far at the beginning.   One set, 3‑1, and I was missing something.   I didn't really know, I couldn't find rhythm or pace in my game.   So I decided to fight harder.  
    I wanted to be, well, focused on what I had to do.   What could really bother her today?   And I managed to turn the trend during the second set, and this is when I gained a lot of confidence for the rest of the match.   
   
 Q.   Finally, with the first stop and the rain and when you were back on the courts after the rain, you were more aggressive, you came more to the net.   Was that a change even though it was not the main turnaround?  
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   Well, the first three games were not that good, but the 3‑1 game I was more into the match.   Then we had to stop due to the rain, but I felt, yeah, this is it.   I'm doing it.   And then I discussed with Alexia and when it was raining it helped me quite a lot.   
    Then after that, I did what we had decided to do together, to stick to it, and to be more and more aggressive.   Because, you know, look at how she plays.   If you let her play her game, go into the court, it's complicated mainly for me.  
   
 Q.   Is it a special win?   Because this year I think you have not won any matches on the WTA Tour.   It's the third top‑20 player that you've defeated in your career.   What about this?  
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   It's a special win, that's true.   Given last year's season that I had that was really difficult, you know, I started at a very low level.   I'm going up little by little.   And therefore, with this win, I'm defeating a good player is something that gives me more impetus for the future.   I want to continue.   It shows I'm not far from it.   Let's continue.   
   
 Q.   And by the way, could you tell us exactly what you've changed in your tactics apart from moving more into the courts?   It's too simple?  
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   I don't know.   Are you a coach yourself?   I mean, you know what I mean?   If it's useless to do a number of things, sometimes you don't need to do complex things on such matches.  
    You know what I did?   I was coming to the net, because, you know, with her style, she wants to chip the balls in the middle of the court, and if I'm too much behind the baseline, then she would move me to the right, to the left with dropshots.  
    So what I wanted to do is to hit with my forehand and move to the net as much as I could.   It's as silly as this, plain and simple.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT