ROLAND GARROS
May 30, 2018
Pauline Parmentier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. PARMENTIER/A. Cornet
6-7, 6-4, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. You play Wozniacki next match.  How do you think that match will be?
PAULINE PARMENTIER: First I think about today, because it was a really tough match and I want to enjoy it first, and then tomorrow I play doubles, and then I gonna play Wozniacki.
It's going to be a tough match again, like a big battle, but I played her, like, a few weeks ago, so I have a little bit of tips.
But, yeah, it's going to be a really good match, I think.  Really excited to play her.
Q. Will it be a tough match for you?
PAULINE PARMENTIER: Yes, really tough.
Q. How is she playing?
PAULINE PARMENTIER: Well, she play really solid, has a really good backhand, going to be a lot of rallies again, but I'm ready to play.  I had a good practice today for the rallies, so it's going to be fun.
Q. So you're not afraid?
PAULINE PARMENTIER: Not at all (smiling).
I just want to enjoy the match.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. Le Quotidien had as a title:  "A small duel between friends."
PAULINE PARMENTIER: Well, it wasn't a small duel; it was a large one, a big match, we stayed over three hours on the court.  The first set was already very long.
I'm very proud and very happy to have made it and to have won the match.
Honestly, I believe we gave a very high-level game, a lot of rallies.  We both gave all we could on the court.  It was beautiful to see and it was beautiful to live.  It's true.
Q. I don't know if you looked at the statistics of the match, but if I'm not mistaken, you saved 24 match points.  It hasn't happened to you very often in your career, I guess.
One of the keys, this is one of the keys of the match, and one of the reasons that explains your victory.
PAULINE PARMENTIER: Yes, I guess it turned the match over.  And for her, obviously, it was difficult not to be able to seize the opportunities on the break points.  I didn't think I saved that many.  I knew I had saved a few, but it's great.  It's great to be as solid on my serve and to be able to the overturn things.
Q. After the match against Chloe, you said that the physical status was going to play an important part.  Do you think it was a key to this victory?
PAULINE PARMENTIER: Yes, I guess that physically I managed to make a difference today again.  Even though it was very difficult, it was a very big physical fight, but also a mental one because we know each other very well.
Every time we practice, we constantly battle, so I knew it was going to be a difficult match, and it was the case.  I'm really happy.  The match against Chloe was more a stressful match.  My legs didn't feel good.  I didn't manage to produce the right game.
Both matches were physical, but they were different to manage.  In fact, I think they had nothing to do one with the other.
Q. When you finish such a match, where does it hurt?
PAULINE PARMENTIER: I ache all over.  I had the cold baths, so my legs are a bit better, but I'm going to go for some care tonight, eat a little bit, and then some massage and I hope I'll be able to recover for the match in two days.
And then all I want is to play as best as possible.  Playing here in Roland Garros, we can't complain.  We have difficult sessions very often, but when we practice it's for this kind of match.  So if our work pays well, we can't complain.
Now what we have to do is sleep well to be ready in 48 hours.
Q. Your mindset against Wozniacki will be nothing to lose?
PAULINE PARMENTIER: Yes.  I have nothing to lose.  I will be able to enjoy a moment with my public, because it's true that when you have two French players, the public is a bit mitigated, and when you're in Roland Garros, all you want to do is to communicate with the public.  You want to be able to live that.
I'll be able to play there and to enjoy it.  It will be a great match, and I have nothing to lose.  It's true.  I'll give all I have.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT