ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2017
Pauline Parmentier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. WITTHOEFT/P. Parmentier
6-4, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. How do you explain your difficult early match and how did you organize yourself to try and turn things around, although you didn't succeed?
PAULINE PARMENTIER: I had a lot of tactical problems because she would block my backhand.  It was difficult for me to destabilize her with my forehand.  So I kind of yielded to her system and my backhand didn't really harm her.  So it was a bit tough.  There were a couple of opportunities that didn't turn out.
I was just racing to try and catch up, to try to use my forehand diagonally as much as I could -- my backhand diagonally, rather.  And I was relatively successful in doing that.
Then there was that game where it was 5-4, and then 5-5, forehand right into the wall.  So it's the type of mistake that comes at a cost.  So I did make a big effort to try and reverse the situation.  And then in the third set, it was a real battle throughout.
She was quite successful.  There was that tie-break.  Things didn't really turn in my favor.  So it's a bit frustrating and hard to digest because it was a good fight.  When you're fighting, you hope that things are going to take a turn for the better.
It's been a few matches that it hasn't worked out, and that's very tough.
Q. What did you think when she did her backhand at 5-4?  That it was on the line?
PAULINE PARMENTIER: Yeah, when I saw that, it was out.  I had the same kind of opportunity, but it was out there.  So I thought, wow, that's tough.
But then again, it's all part of the game, isn't it?  You think when you're doing things properly you're going to manage to turn things around, but there it just didn't happen.
Q. Would you say that these opportunities that you didn't succeed in seizing at the end of the first set was a problem?  If you had done better maybe it would have improved you overall and diminished her?
PAULINE PARMENTIER: No, not really, because she really didn't seem to react to anything negatively.  And 5-5 doesn't make that much of a difference.  And when you're at 5-5, and you don't, you're not successful.
Well, obviously, it's tough.  And it was tough on my morale.
And there was nothing really amazing on either side at that point.
Q. Have you any idea how the rest of your season is going to be organized up to Wimbledon?
PAULINE PARMENTIER: I still have doubles and mixed doubles.  And then I think I'm probably going to play in Mallorca on grass, and Eastbourne, where there's 100,000's, but I'm not there.  And I might go to the club in Deauville to practice a bit on grass.  But no firm decisions.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT