ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2017
Pauline Parmentier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. PARMENTIER/I. Khromacheva
6-3, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. I suppose you couldn't dream of something more ideal than this to start Roland Garros?
PAULINE PARMENTIER: Yeah, for sure.  I'm so happy to have won in two sets, and look at the score.  Not that difficult.  To start with it was a bit difficult to start, though.  I had some tension before the match started but I'm happy to have won in two sets and not to have lost too much energy today.
Q. So what really satisfied you today?  Which is the thing that really made you happy?
PAULINE PARMENTIER: It's not the game itself, but it's the fact that I started off this match and I was quite tense.  And then I succeeded in managing this, and I managed to play my real game.  To start with my footwork was not too good, and contrary to what I usually do, or rather than what I usually do, I should have said contrary to what I did before, that is, I could have stayed frustrated with my feelings; this time I managed to overcome these feelings.  And then this is what I was happy with.
And then her game, she didn't have enough pace or rhythm.  Some of her shots were not much to fight against.  So that's about it.  My match was serious and solid.
Q. Well, you were quite aggressive.  You were moving to the net, I see.  This is what Olivier Patience would like you to do more and more, that is, your game is changing and moving towards this, in this direction?
PAULINE PARMENTIER: Yeah.  This is where I'm going to with my Spanish coach, and Olivier, we have worked on my game for one-and-a-half years, so I'm more solid mainly with my backhand.
Now, if I want to go a level up, I'll have to go volley and lift the balls and then slide.  Sometimes a few dropshots, as well, to vary my shots rather than having just forehands that are deep and heavy, I should shorten the rallies.  It's not that easy, because, you know, I have been doing this for 15 years, playing from the baseline.  But I will try and change my game.
Q. You have gotten through difficult moments in your career several years ago, your ranking had dropped a lot after a number of severe injuries.  Now you're back.  Now, given all the experience you have, what do you expect from such a Roland Garros?
PAULINE PARMENTIER: I don't expect anything in terms of results, that is what I hope I can do, enjoy what I can do here on the courts, the time I can spend with the crowd, and I'm so very happy.  I have won first rounds several times.  But it's always good to do this in Roland.
I'm still here.  I will be back here, I don't know, Wednesday or Thursday.  This is what I'm vigilant about.  I'm trying not to regret anything, because I know there aren't that many to come.  This is what I'd like to focus on.
But in terms of my results, anything can happen.  You know, there is the draw, it's always complicated.  But it's to enjoy things.
Q. Could you say something perhaps -- well, I know the match is not yet over, but can you tell us more about Witthoeft who's up 5-3?
PAULINE PARMENTIER: Well, the two players play really well, with quite a lot of pace.  I know Witthoeft a little bit but not Davis.  Olivier is watching them.  He's going to tell me, tell me when the time comes.  He's going to give me my debrief about this match they are having.  It's a good second round, I think it's going to be a good match, and regardless of who's going to win, I have to take this match seriously.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT