ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2016
Pauline Parmentier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
T. BACSINSZKY/P. Parmentier   
6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  You said that this opponent would be a tough one.  Was it difficult to compete with her?  
PAULINE PARMENTIER: Yes, it was tough.  She plays very well with a lot of variation.  It's not easy to set up your game.   
I was uptight at the start of the match, because I was playing on the center court.  I was not afraid of playing against her, because I know her very well, but I was playing on a big court and I was trying to get my bearings as quickly as possible.   
I think that I delivered a decent performance.  On the whole, I wish I could have used my opportunities better, but she has a lot of variation in her game, and she played a lot on my backhand.   
So it was tough.  At the start of the second set, had a break point, and I didn't convert that break point.  I would have been ahead, so this is a slight regret.   
But she's very solid.  She has a powerful backhand with a lot of variation, as I told you.   
So I didn't know what to do.  It was quite disruptive for me.   
 Q.  It's a good run, the French Open.  
PAULINE PARMENTIER: Yes, it's a good run for me at the French Open.  I'm not going to tell you that it's a poor run.   
 Q.  Are you disappointed with this run?  
PAULINE PARMENTIER: No, I'm not disappointed.  She's among the top 10 players.  I'm happy, third round at the French Open.   
I believed in myself.  I wanted to win this match, but I'm not depressed.  It's a good Roland Garros.   
 Q.  You have made headway in the rankings.  What is your objective, to be among the top 40, the top 50?  
PAULINE PARMENTIER: Yes, to be among the top 100 first.  This is an objective that I fulfilled, so it's great.  And I will regroup with my coaches.  We will set some new objectives and goals, and I hope that I will be closer to the best ranking I had in 2008.   
 Q.  There has been a lot of media coverage for your matches.  There were tweets with Alize.  What about the media coverage?  
PAULINE PARMENTIER: There was a lot of buzz because I tweeted two days ago, so I'm making the headline of the newspaper here.   
It's great.  That's part of the game.  So they have done it because I have made an observation, but that's a pity.  But if I'm grabbing the headlines of the newspaper, so much better.   
So there is a standout match between Serena and her opponent.  It was a sort of game we had fun about it.  People reacted differently.  People pulled my leg this morning about it because I grabbed the headline of a French newspaper.   
 Q.  Of course you were not headlining the news two days ago.  Regarding the media coverage, do you think that you receive enough media coverage?  I'm talking about the women's game and the French players.  
PAULINE PARMENTIER: I've made an observation.  It is true that men's tennis receives more media coverage.  That's true.   
We know that men's tennis is more enticing, drawing lots of people.  That's a little bit frustrating when you don't receive enough media coverage.   
In women's tennis, I mean, there should be or there could be some surprises in store.  I'm not going to repeat what I have said already.  There's no problem with that.   
Of course from time to time we wish we could get more media coverage, especially when there are good matches.   
I'm not asking newspapers and media to sell dreams.  But I will be clear about that.  I mean, men's tennis is more attractive than women's tennis.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT