ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2014
Pauline Parmentier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 G. MUGURUZA/P. Parmentier
      6‑4, 6‑2 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us about the match?   Was it a nightmare?   You lost nine points in a row.   What happened in your mind?   How did you come back?  
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   I didn't get off to a good start.   She was playing with a lot of intensity.   I didn't find my landmarks.   But I didn't panic.   
    I say it couldn't be worse, and then I managed to be involved in the match.   She plays really well, with a lot of intensity.  
    Physically it was tough for me.   I was under pressure and I missed a lot of shots.   I couldn't set up my game.  
    But I played a good match.   It was a match of a few points.   In the first set I missed a shot 15‑love, and from that point the situation turned around.   I was up 40‑15 on my serve twice and I got broken.  
    I can have a few regrets, but on the whole, she was a better player.  
   
 Q.   Can you say that it was a good week?   Can you be positive?  
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   It's an unbelievable week.   Of course I'm slightly disappointed, but there are many positive lessons that I can draw from that match.  
    I enjoyed the tournament.   Lots of positive things in my mind.   Even though I was defeated today, it was great.  
   
 Q.   Are you sick?   
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   Yes, I'm sick.   And I'm coughing.  
   
 Q.   Are you sick?  
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   Yes.   I have been sick for the past four days.  
   
 Q.   You were saying that you didn't have a lot of dynamism.   Is it true?   
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   Of course it's true.   Yes, it's true.   If I tell you that I was lacking vitality, it's because it's true.  
    I played a lot of matches.   I played doubles matches.   You waste a lot of energy at the French Open.   It's quite new for me to play so many matches.  
    As I told you, she plays with a lot of intensity.   At times I felt that I didn't have enough energy.  
   
 Q.   Can you tell us about this match?   I mean, you were on center court.   What were your feelings playing on the center court?  
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   It was great.   Before the match it was difficult to handle the situation.   I didn't know whether I would play on Court No. 1 or on center court, but I was eager to play on center court.  
    It would have been fabulous, but I didn't want to lose on Court No. 1.   I wanted to be supported by the crowd.  
    So I'm quite happy to play on center court today.  
   
 Q.   How do you manage such a day?   There are long matches.   You don't know exactly what will be the outcome of the other matches.   You didn't know whether you would step on court.   
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   In the previous matches, I mean, I waited quite a lot so I warmed up.   I was in the locker room.   I had a rest.   I tried to sleep.   
    But we are used to handling these events.  
   
 Q.   What about light?   There was not a lot of light.   
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   Yes, you're right.   The court is not lit and I can't see properly.  
    So at the end it was quite tough for me to see on court.  
   
 Q.   Your run at Roland Garros, is it going to change things for the next weeks?  
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:     We'll have a look at the schedule with Alexia for the summer.   So I will be among the top 100.   But in terms of schedule, nothing will change.  
   
 Q.   What are you going to do next?  
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   I will play on grass at Nottingham, and then I will take part in the qualifications of Wimbledon.   
    Afterwards, I don't know.  
   
 Q.   Do you think that your run here will prevent you from going through the quallies?  
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   I will ask for a wildcard at Wimbledon.   I don't know if I will get the wildcard at Wimbledon.  
   
 Q.   Any image, any moment that you will bear in mind at this French Open?  
    PAULINE PARMENTIER:   There are many moments.   Many memories.   The matches that I turned around and some crazy points that we played on the center court.   I mean, the atmosphere was great.  
    So there was a Mexican wave and people chanted my name, so I could leave the court in peace.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT