U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 18, 2017
Jordan Niebrugge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: With the way I hit it, it was incredible.  I made a lot of up-and-down saves.  I was talking to my caddie, I don't know how we brought it in on the back nine in 3-under.  I guess I just took advantage of some opportunities and made a great putt on 17.  And obviously 18 was a great way to end it.
Q. What did this week mean to you?
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: It was pretty awesome, playing in front of all the fans and family and friends rooting me on every step of the way.  It's pretty cool.  There's more and more people here each day and the crowds got louder, which I expected, and I love playing in front of everybody.  We just had a lot of fun out there.
Q. It seemed like you had a positives with your wedge shots today?
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: Yeah, all four days, I don't know how I didn't chip in this week.  But I felt like I had a lot of awesome pitch shots and chip shots around the greens.  It just kept me in it, just scrambling.  I didn't hit it the best into the greens, but I definitely saved a lot of strokes around the green.
Q. When you come out, it is windy like this, like we anticipated, what does that do for the round out there?
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: It's just a grind.  You know it's going to be windy.  You just have to be able to be athletic and just hit shots that maybe you're not used to hitting.  And I think that's one of the reasons why I went to OSU is to be able to kind of hone my skills to maybe not just the best weather, but it's always windy there.
So you see Rickie, he's awesome, he loves playing in the winds and the whether.  I think that's just a testament to going to OSU and getting your game to be in shape like that.
Q. How do you explain this week, playing your best in the tough conditions, anything in particular about this round that you were able to score that wasn't there the other three days?
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: There wasn't much difference.  Obviously I finished at 1-over, so I was pretty consistent.  Just a few putts here or there.  I putted great today.  I gave myself some short ones.  On these greens in this wind it's huge to be able to convert some of those four, five, six footers and I was able to do that and ended up getting a couple coming down the stretch.
Q. This being Father's Day, and what you thought about going into it, now that it's done and you got to see your dad, what was that like?
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: It's awesome.  I haven't seen him yet.  I haven't seen him after the round yet, so it will be pretty cool to see him.
Q. How's your confidence with the two birdies to end it, you played one of the few that's under par?
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: I haven't seen the scores at all.  I know it's playing tough out there and I'm proud of how I handled myself.  I obviously didn't hit it the best or I didn't feel like I hit it the best, but I kept it out of trouble.  I don't think I made any mistakes or any big numbers this week, just kept it -- didn't make any doubles or anything like that, which is big, obviously, out here with all the trouble on almost every hole.
Q. You autographed your glove as you walked off 18.  What is your role in Wisconsin golf, as it grows, in growing the game?
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: Yeah, it's pretty cool.  Obviously I was in their position not too long ago, and it's always nice to give back and be able to inspire some of those kids.
Q. How much confidence does this tournament give you in competing with some of the world's best?
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: It gives me the confidence that I didn't play as good as I would like to.  I didn't hit it as good as I'd like to.  But I still was able to make the cut and manage my game pretty well.  And ended up being only 1-over after all is said and done.  I'm pretty proud of myself in how I finished.  And coming in 3-under on the back nine is pretty solid.
Q. What does this tournament do for you, performing at that level?
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: We'll have a couple of weeks off in Canada.  This is their last week, and then they have two weeks off and gone back.  So we have that.
And I just got a spot into this next week's Web.com event in Springfield.  I'm excited to get down there and it's close to a lot of family and friends down there, as well.  So I'm excited to kind of move on and get going next week.
Q. What do you think of it as a U.S. Open venue?
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: I think it's awesome.  Obviously it's different than a lot of the U.S. Open venues in the past but it's a great test of golf and they have some awesome fans here.
I think it's a fair course.  You've got to drive it well.  You've got to be able to hit your irons where you want them to be because the greens have a lot of undulations.  And you've got to putt it well.
And I feel like that's normal in a U.S. Open.  You've got to have your game.  And obviously the leaders are 12-under or something like that, but today is going to be playing tough so we'll see if they can get a good round in today.  But I think it's a great spot.
Q. Charley Danielson, top 20 today at Wichita, which probably means he'll be in the field next week, too.  How much more fun is it to play with your buddy?
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: Yeah, it's pretty cool.  I saw that he was playing pretty solid all week.  He was in 7th.  I don't know, he ended up getting it done.  But that would be awesome getting down there and seeing him next week and being able to play with him.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT