MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2014
Jordan Niebrugge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Did you prove something to yourself, a little validation?  
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE:   Yeah, I didn't really feel that I played all that different, but just got on the right side of the hole today.   I actually played really well.  
   
 Q.   I followed you on the front nine.   How tough was it to keep your pace on those first three holes?  
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE:   You just can't worry about it, because obviously the second and third hole I put myself in a pretty tough position on the green.   So it was going to be a tough two‑putt anyway.  
So I told myself not to worry about it and kind of went on from there.  
   
 Q.   What do you take away from this week?  
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE:   I don't know, just‑‑ I think just putting yourself in this position more often and seeing how the top guys play the course and handle themselves out on the course is I think huge for what I want to do in the future.  
So being able to see them compete the way they do and kind of taking something from them, that's going to be huge for this week.  
   
 Q.   Mark O'Meara has obviously done a lot and seen a lot out here, did he have any words of encouragement for you?  
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE:   Yes, he kind of helped me out the whole way and was really supportive.   So it was awesome.  
   
 Q.   Did he say anything at the end in particular?  
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE:   Just good luck with your future and stuff like that.   
   
 Q.   Getting back to the real world, so to speak, will it be hard?  
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE:   I've got a couple of homework assignments due Sunday night.   
   
 Q.   What do you have?  
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE:   Probably two or three of them.   So I've got to get those all done.  
   
 Q.   I have to ask you about your snazzy spikes, too, where did you get those?  
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE:   I ordered them from FootJoy.   They are pretty sweet shoes that I got.   
   
 Q.   Do you have a little bit of healthier respect now ‑‑   I know you played here a bunch ‑‑ but for the greens now that you've played in the Championship?  
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE:   They're definitely a lot, a lot different than what I played‑‑ I mean it was‑‑ considering it was 45 and rainy and cold the day I came here in the past.   But they're definitely baking out and you can tell it's getting pretty tough out there on the greens.  
   
 Q.   No matter what guys tell you, you have to experience it to see their speed, right?  
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE:   Yeah, it's amazing if you're above the hole, it's amazing how much faster they are.   It's so ridiculous.   Like on 15 I just had a seven, eight footer and, man, I hit it three feet by.   You never can get above the hole here.   
   
 Q.   You made a couple of birdies, can you talk about those two birdies on the front nine?  
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE:   The one on‑‑ it was at 6.   That was a really good birdie.   Because Mark just made his first bogey and he's like, well, you're too good not to make a birdie this week.  
So I ended up making birdie on that hole.   And it was pretty cool.   I got kind of chills when it went in.   It was a really good putt.   And it was pretty cool.  
   
 Q.   How long of a putt was it?  
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE:   It was probably 15 feet, maybe.  
   
 Q.   What did you hit off the tee?  
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE:   7.  
   
 Q.   And your next birdie?  
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE:   Par‑5.   I just hit it kind of right and then I hit it out by the green left and got lucky and had a shot into the green.   I hit it to about eight feet and ended up making that putt.  
   
 Q.   Did you hit 8‑iron again on 4?  
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE:   12, yeah, I did.   It was a lot different.   I actually thought it was going to be pretty good, but the wind kind of kicked up.  
   
 Q.   And then you had a couple in the bunker on 16?  
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE:   I was lucky enough to get some sand under the ball there.   But I hit a pretty good shot yesterday with my coach.   So I ended up breaking out and I've got to do that more.  
   
 Q.   Now that you have played here, how motivated are you to make it back here?  
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE:   I'm really motivated.   I think this course really suits my game well with the ball‑striking.   And now that I've got some experience on the greens and stuff like that I really think that this week helped me out, even the two days we played competitively, I think that I was a lot more comfortable out there today with putts and stuff like that.   So if I can get back here somehow, some way, I feel pretty confident.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT