U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 16, 2017
Jordan Niebrugge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you talk about the day?
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: Yeah, it was definitely a little hotter out there.  The wind was pretty generous for us.  The course wasn't playing too difficult.  I played a great front nine.  We kind of started scrambling a little on the back or on the front nine.  We were put on the clock a little bit and just kind of scrambling around.
But made a couple good pars and hung in there.  Made a good bogey on the last hole.  I was not in a good spot back there, and then (Inaudible).
Q. Have you ever had a tougher bunker shot than that?
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: Well, I've had a tougher bunker shot.
Q. Have you ever?
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: I've had a tougher bunker shot to get it close to the pin.  I've had to lay-up, which that was kind of like laying up.  But I've had a couple of those in The Open.  But other than that, you get those every once in a while.  You've just got to use your imagination.  I mean, if I hit that hard, I don't know.
Q. What did it mean to you to make the cut here?  You've won just about every tournament there was here in the States.  What would it mean to make the cut at the U.S. Open in Wisconsin?
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: Yeah, I mean, it would be definitely checking this box off this week.  I was looking forward to playing well here and obviously making the cut is fine, it's great.  But if Saturday is moving day, and looking for a great couple of rounds and getting things rolling tomorrow and the next day.
Q. You're tied with Steve.  Would you welcome a pairing with Mr. Stricker tomorrow?
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: Yeah, that would be awesome.  I'm sure I'd enjoy the walk, and let's just see if we squeeze in there.
Q. Along those lines, Steve talked about it here, how do you balance being kind of a local hero and having all that affection for you with being a serious competitor trying to really do your deal between the lines?
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: I was talking about it yesterday.  It's always great to play in front of family and friends.  It's a little nerve-racking at first, but once you get going, it's almost like anything.  Every hole they're giving encouragement, and especially on that back nine I was struggling a little bit.  But they're keeping it going.  Kind of getting it back together and getting some good shots.
Q. What changed that made the backhand scramble?  Was it the length of the day or the conditions?
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: I think it was pretty hot.  We got put on the clock twice.  Kind of had a little bit of a scramble mode.  But I didn't hit that great of shots a couple of those.  I turned it around down the stretch and hit some good shots on 8, the 17th hole.  Kind of got it back together.
Q. How much moving can take place on moving day out here?  What would you be looking for tomorrow?
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: I don't think a specific score or anything.  I'm just getting the ball rolling right away going off 1.  I played those first two holes 1-over today.  You know, got a par-5, and shot a par-4 and got things going right away.  So after shooting 2-under today on the back.  Came to a little hole, three-putting that one, and three-putting I don't know, 4 or something like that.  Kept scrambling, and just happy how I finished.
Q. How much does it mean to you to play these first rounds with Kevin and Taylor?
JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: It was pretty cool.  We had a lot of fun out there.  We all played pretty solid.  Definitely had some mojo out there.  I was very comfortable, and it was good playing with them again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT