THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2015
Jordan Niebrugge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: Yeah, I like looking at the leaderboard, but a lot of people say not to.  Just gives me that extra motivation to keep going and keep playing well.Q. And the Silver Medal, is that something that's on your mind this week when you're out there or just playing your own game?JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: Just going out there.  I've been playing well all week, and I've given myself a lot of opportunities.  It's only just a matter of getting it in the fairway, and my ball-striking has been really good this week, and just putting the ball pretty close to the pin and just happened to make a couple of them.Q. Just heading into tomorrow, how are you feeling going into the final day?JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: Good.  I feel pretty fresh, and just want to keep going.  I'm going to grab a bite to eat and just hang out today the rest of the day, but should be good to go tomorrow.Q. How does it feel to be playing so brilliantly and still not be the leading amateur in the field?JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: I mean, I'm just doing what I can.  I'm just focusing on my own game.  I've been playing pretty well, and obviously Paul has been playing really well, as well, so it's cool to see a lot of amateurs playing well this week.  Let's see if we can keep it going.Q. Can you explain why the amateurs are doing so well in this particular major championship?  How is it setting up for you guys?JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: I just feel like you've just got to get the confidence that you belong here, and whether that's from the players you're playing with, fans out there, people back home, definitely lift you up, and you feel like you belong out there, and you can play well.Q. So you feel you have the confidence to mix it with --JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: Yeah, yeah, I feel like I have that confidence.Q. Obviously a few -- well, most golf fans over here won't know too much about you.  Just tell us a bit about yourself.JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: I'm going to be a senior at Oklahoma State next year.  I plan on graduating after the year next year with an entrepreneurship major, and we'll see where life takes me after that, but I plan on turning pro after that and giving this a shot.Q. Does that mean the business career is on hold then?JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: Yeah, hopefully.Q. Who have you got over here with you?JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: I have my mom and dad here and my sister came over, as well, and she just left today, so she's probably kicking herself.  Just us three over here.Q. You mentioned the Silver Medal.  Is that realistically your No. 1 target or can you actually win this thing?JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: We'll just see where tomorrow takes me.  I feel like I'm playing well enough and giving myself a lot of opportunities out there, so it's just a matter of making some putts tomorrow and getting things going right away.Q. Did you think that the relative ease off the tee at St. Andrews allows amateurs to play better here than other majors?JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: I probably wouldn't say ease, but they're a little wider just because of the double fairways, but then you have bunkers in the middle of the double fairway that kind of tightens it up a bit, but it's definitely playing easier with not as much wind.  I mean, it starts getting really tough off the tees when you've got wind blowing balls around into the bunkers and stuff.  But today I just felt confident off the tee, and I think I hit a majority of the fairways out there, which gave me an opportunity, good opportunity.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT