THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2015
Jordan Niebrugge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: I got off to a good, fast start and just happened to make some good swings in there and got in great position.  I was able to make some putts, as well.  Had a couple tough holes and then back down the back nine, a bit of (inaudible) in there, and made a really good par save on 17.   Q.  Are you quite used to playing on links?  Do you feel quite at home?  JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: Yeah.  Last month I came over for three weeks or so and played in the British Am, the Brabazon Trophy in England and the qualifier, so I got to experience the weather and all the links stuff then.  I've got a lot of experience on links golf courses, and just kind of how it plays, how (inaudible) on some of the shots and just use your imagination.   Q.  How do you make that decision?  JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: Just to see what it's like.  I've never been over here.  It's the first time here, and I figured it would be best for me to experience this type of golf.  I've liked it a lot, definitely getting used to the surroundings, but golf course-wise, I've liked every course I've played.   Q.  Am I right in saying you played at Carnoustie?  JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: Yeah, we came over here -- my caddie belongs to Carnoustie, so we walked around here and some of the grandstands were up and it was a cool feel, and then we ate here and went back to Carnoustie.   Q.  I think it's the lowest round by an amateur here.  What do you think about that?  JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: It's awesome.  Yeah, it's pretty incredible to think about.  I just feel like it was pretty solid and made the best of my opportunities out there.   Q.  What about your game do you think suits you well on a course like this or a links style course?  JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: I mean, I hit it really well today, but I've been hitting it well all week.  You feel like you don't have to hit it that well.  You can get good shots and get some bad breaks.  But either way, it's just a cool way to play.  It's not target golf like a lot of the courses back in the States.  Just to be able to play around here and use your imagination is really cool.   Q.  You must have had expectations on what it would be like to play in an Open here, but experiencing it, what was that like?  JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: Yeah, it was awesome.  We got an early tee time so it was good to get out early ahead of the wind and the rain.  Definitely made the most of my opportunity out there today.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: Yeah, I don't know, I feel like -- I guess a lot of us went out in the morning, so those two guys went out in the morning, as well.  Going through 10 holes or so, there's a lot of really gettable holes, and definitely made the most of my opportunities there, and just kind of held on until I knew I had one more birdie hole on 18, and I finished the round off nicely.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: When you put your trip together, was The Open qualifier a big part of it or just kind of an added bonus at the end of a couple amateur events. Well, I ended up getting exempt into the final stage, so that was nice.  I guess it was just an added bonus.  I mean, we were over here to play the British Am, the Brabazon Trophy.  It happened to be about two days after the Brabazon, so definitely a great opportunity, and definitely wanted to play in that before we went back to the States.  Even if it was the week after I fell like I would have stayed over here.   Q.  How many rounds do you think you played here?  JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: I've played quite a bit I feel like.  I played three times -- probably seven tournament rounds, and then probably 15 --   Q.  You played nearly every day I assume?  JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: Yeah.   Q.  How do you think this experience will help you back in the States?  JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: Yeah, I mean, just the experience of playing in an Open, it can't hurt you.  Just putting all those experiences on again and again just helps in the long run, just playing different style courses makes you feel more comfortable anywhere you go, whether it be here or back in the States.  You can just use that experience wherever you go.   Q.  It might help you in the Walker Cup.  JORDAN NIEBRUGGE: Yeah, we'll see.  Just play my hardest here and we'll see what happens.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT