AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2019
Amanda Anisimova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. ANISIMOVA/A. Sabalenka
6-3, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How does that rank as how well you've ever played?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Probably one of the best matches of my life, yeah.  I played really well today.
She's a really tough opponent, so I was just really preparing myself for a really tough match.  I was putting it all out there.  Yeah, I was staying relaxed, so I was playing really well.
Q. How did you stay so relaxed on such a big occasion?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: I mean, I was just so excited.  I was going to be playing on a big court.  I was just trying to have fun out there, and I was really enjoying myself.
Yeah, I ended up being relaxed.
Q. It's not even two years from when you won the US Open girls title.  You were worried about the hurricane.  Your mom had to leave to take care of your grandma and stuff.  Does that seem like a long time ago, or just yesterday?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: No, it seems like a long time ago.  I feel like a lot of things have changed since then.  I have changed as a person and as a player.
So, yeah, it feels like quite a while ago.
Q. How have you changed?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Just everything, like my game and my mentality.  I believe in myself so much more than I ever did in this tournament.  It's just trusting myself.  That's why I have been also playing really well, so that's definitely changed a lot.
Q. You were injured last year in Miami.  Curious about, after having a really good Indian Wells, how that sort of setback, I don't know if that helped in the long run, giving you time to work more or was it frustrating, getting your momentum broken, how it's affected you coming up to now?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: No, it was definitely frustrating, because I was playing really well at the time.  Then I had to get back to where I was.  So it was definitely hard.
But, you know, I don't know, I took some time to think about a lot of things.  Then the year was pretty up and down, but this year I came out with a lot more confidence and just feeling really good and happy that I can be back playing again.
Q. Can you tell us a bit about your coaching.  Does Nick Saviano still play a part in your group?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: No, I don't work with him anymore.
Q. Coach with your father?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, and my coach Max Fomine is here with me that I have been working with since I was like nine years old.
Q. Do you train at home in Florida yet?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah.
Q. Your backhand was quite extraordinary today.  Is that your preferred shot?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, a lot of people tell me my backhand is really good.  I like playing forehand and backhand.  I don't really think I have a better shot.
Q. You were almost half volleying your opponent.  Are you comfortable taking the ball early?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, definitely I was trying to be really aggressive today because she plays really aggressive too and we are both really big hitters.  I was trying to take control in this match today.
Q. You had your leg wrapped early on, and I notice you didn't have it yesterday or today.  What's the status of that?  Is it feeling better?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, my leg is fine.  I was going to keep taping it, but I didn't have time when I forgot to tape it, and then it was, like, there were no problems.  So I just stopped taping it (smiling).
Q. Keep with the winning game?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah.
Q. If you could have a single dream that would come true in this sport, what would it be?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: I want to win this tournament right now (smiling).
Q. Why is the Australian so special to you?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Honestly, I loved playing out there today.  I think I have never had that much fun in a match before, and the crowd was just amazing, supporting me all the time.  It was just really enjoyable and I love playing here.
Q. Have you exceeded the expectations you had coming into the tournament by getting to the fourth round, or do you go into the tournament even at 17 thinking that you can go further?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: I definitely was -- I mean, I had a lot of confidence going into the tournament, like anything is possible, but I was taking it one match at a time, first-round win would be amazing and I just kept winning.
Yeah, hopefully I can win my next round, but this is a great accomplishment already.
Q. You spoke briefly about Maria Sharapova after your match.  Could you talk a little bit about kind of childhood idols and who has influenced your game or who you've modeled your game on?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, for sure, I have always looked up to her and I was watching her when I was little.  She's a great person to look up to.  Yeah, I always enjoyed watching her play and all of her interviews.  She's a great person off the court, too.
Q. Anybody else?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: I never really had, like, a certain role model.  Not really, no.
Q. You're obviously quite dedicated to your tennis.  Things you enjoy away from the tennis you want to tell us about?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: I like hanging out with my friends because I rarely see them.  That's not really a hobby.  I have so many texts from them right now so I have to respond soon.  Yeah, I can't wait to see them when I get back.  I live in Miami so I like going to the beach.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT