BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 11, 2018
Amanda Anisimova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. ANISIMOVA/P. Kvitova
6-2, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You won the US Open juniors.  Now you've beaten your first top-10 player.  Can you talk about it?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, it feels crazy.  I mean, I'm still in shock.  She's the best player I have ever played, and it was the biggest court I have ever played on.  So it was definitely nerve-wracking kind of, but I was enjoying it so much out there and I was playing my best.  It was a good day.
Q. How did you keep your nerves in check through the match?  Because it didn't show you were nervous.
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, I have been working on that a lot, just not showing any emotions, just fighting the whole time.  That's what I was working on the most when I had my offseason and I have been doing that really well these past two weeks.
Q. From last year in Paris, Sacramento, New York, here at the playoffs to get in the tournament, you have had such great results.  Why do you think your game is so strong?  How would you describe your game and your power?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: You know, I'm really aggressive, and I like to take the ball away.  So I feel like opponents have a tough time, you know, managing my power sometimes.  I think that's a big advantage I have.
But last year in some of the big matches, like at French Open main draw, you know, I have had some matches where mentally I wasn't really there.  So I had to really work on that last year.
I feel like this is a good start for me.
Q. As still a very young person, what is the joy you feel in the sport?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, definitely being this young, you know, it's more exciting.  Playing against these top players, I mean, they are all so good and they are world class.  They have had so much experience.  So it's just so cool playing against them when I'm this young.
Q. When you walk out on that court, did you take a look around a little bit and take it all in or keep your eyes in front of you?  How did you handle it mentally out there?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: I was looking a little around when I was warming up because of all the TV screens.  And I would see myself on the big screen, so I wasn't use to that.  That was the first time.  But I was trying to stay really focused.
I was enjoying the moment, but at the same time, I was trying not to, like, make myself nervous because of the huge crowd, and everything, and the big stage.
Q. So many times teenagers come into the game and people say, Oh, she's the next big thing.  What do you make of your game and mental makeup that gives you confidence you can last, not just be a phenom, but that you can last?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, playing US Open juniors, when I won that, that gave me a lot of confidence going in here, but I realize that it's completely different in the WTA.  And I have just been adjusting and it's been really different.
You know, I have been doing pretty well, so...
Q. Do you think it's an advantage for you going on court against those very experienced player and you have just 16 years old?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, definitely.  I have no pressure going onto the court, and all I can think about is having fun, whatever happens.  That's definitely an advantage.
Q. And when you said on court, "I just trusted my game," what did that mean?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Oh, yeah.  Well, I just think about my game when I go on court.  I put myself where -- just like I trust my game more than whatever, whoever I'm playing.  I don't really look at them as much as -- I worry about myself.
My coaches and my dad will be, like, Okay, they do this.  Your opponent is going to do this today.  And I'm just like, I'm focusing on what I'm going to do.  That's what I do.
Q. Is the leg wrap just protective or is something small bothering you?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: No, I was feeling it a little bit before, but now it's fine.
Q. There are so many girls who come up like you and you're 16 and everything is great and wonderful.  Obviously you get a lot of attention very early.  You have seen it before too with the girls you might have looked up to.  How do you not pay attention and not get caught up in it and not look at photos of yourself all the time and say, yeah, I'm pretty great.  How do you stay focused on what the goal is?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Well, I mean, I still look at my phone and still see everything that's being posted.  I don't really spend that much time on it.  I look at it a little bit and then I post whatever I want, and I just move on.
I did well today, but I still have another match going on.  It's not over yet.
Q. You have recently posted about Billie Jean King's activism and gun control.  How do you see your responsibility as a public figure that's increasing?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, definitely.  I also posted about her when it was Women's Day, you know, because she started equality on the court, and everything about tennis, you know, treating the women's side and men's side the same way.
I really look up to her, and that's a great thing that she did.  She's my role model.
Q. You saw the young people from Parkland, Florida, speak out, gun control was mentioned.  What are your thoughts on that issue?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, that's definitely terrible.  I actually had a friend that goes to that school.  It's really close to me.  It's really sad what's going on.  I think that guns should be banned.  That's what my opinion is, whatever.  I posted that on Twitter.  But you should have stricter laws on that for sure.  And I don't think teachers should be having guns in school because I don't think that's a good idea.  I think that we just have to take them out.
Q. How is your friend doing?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: She was fine, but, you know, she was there, and so it's definitely something that she has to keep going through, you know.  All of her friends and everything.  So it was a tough day for her but she was fine.
Q. Are you done with juniors?  Are you going to still play this year?  Because obviously there is a limit on how many events you can play.
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, I'm not playing juniors anymore.
Q. There is a lot of talk about your backhand out there, that impressive shot.  Can you just talk about that shot in your game, the importance of that?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, I really like my backhand.  A lot of people tell me I set it up really well.  I just really feel when I'm on court I don't really have bad days with it.  I don't really have a favorite shot.  I think all of my shots are equally pretty good.  My backhand is really good, too.  I don't really prefer it over any other shot.
Q. You mentioned your coaches.  Could you talk about the role your father has played and the role that Nick has played, as well?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, without my team here, then I would definitely not get this far.  They are so important to me, and they have done a lot these past few weeks on helping me get to where I am.
My dad has been my coach my whole life.  Also my mom has been helping me this whole time.  I have my coach Max Fomine with me, and he's been hitting with me and coaching me.  So a really strong team.
And I keep in touch with Nick every day, and I work with him when I'm back in Florida.
Q. Do you ever go to Lake Nona to work out?  What's that experience?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, I was there actually my whole offseason.  I had a really good offseason there and USTA was helping me a lot.  And it was really great.  And I go there when they have camps and stuff.
Q. What were your thoughts when you first earned the wildcard?  Did you have any expectations at all when you knew you were going to play here?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, when I was playing that day, I knew the wildcard was on the line between me and Caroline, so I just -- it was in the back of my head, but I was just trying to play my best.  I wasn't really worried about it as much, because I was already pretty far into the tournament and playing well, so I was pretty confident.
Q. Is it too soon to start thinking of the next match?  You could play another Czech player, Karolina Pliskova.  Any thoughts on that?
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: I didn't look at the draw when I was having an interview.  Somebody told me.  Yeah, I'm just going to hopefully look at their match and see how it goes and I will see from there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT