QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 24, 2020
Amanda Anisimova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. ANISIMOVA/E. Svitolina   
6-3, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Nice win. Can you just talk through the match today, what do you think you did well and what was the secret to getting a top 10 win today?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Thank you. I think the most important thing was just staying focused and clearing my head, just not like putting too much pressure on myself and just trying to enjoy.   
So I'm really happy to be back and kind of playing my own tennis again.   
 Q.  It looked like that, that it was kind of the "Amanda tennis" that we had been used to seeing. Do you think that it was -- did you feel, I guess, particularly clear in mind in terms of what you wanted to execute today and what you needed to do in order to win?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, I was playing just very free tennis, just going after every shot and the No. 1 thing I'm focusing on this week is being more chill, so that helped me a lot.   
 Q.  You're playing some of the top players. Do you go in with any strategy or once, even if you have a strategy, once you step on to the court is it very overwhelming when you find your opponent against you is a much higher ranked player against you?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: I mean, every opponent here is a tough player, but when I go out to play a top 10 player I know I just have to be focused for every point because they can turn the match around at any time, so I just have to really stay zoned into the match.   
 Q.  You'll probably run into more top 10 players this year. Was there any particular approach that you were planning at the start of the season? Did you and your coach discuss it or your team discuss it, how you would approach the top-level tournaments this year?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: How I approach what?   
 Q.  How would you approach the top-level tournaments this year. I mean, was that a discussion with your coaches?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: No, I'm just trying to get my fitness up and just play my best tennis again. I mean it's really just getting back into the tournaments, I haven't been playing that many, so, yeah, I mean, I'm not really trying to think too much about what I have to do, it's just practicing every single day and giving my best.   
 Q.  You said the goal was to chill this week. So how do you chill? What is the key for you to maintain the head space that you want for, just small goals, just for this week?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: I don't know. Just staying relaxed. Like I have two minutes left in my warm up it's like, Fine, whatever, let's just go. And it's not like, Oh, my God, let's go to another court. It's fine, it's not a big deal.   
 Q.  How is your visit to Doha? Do you like the city, do you like the tour, you like traveling around on the tour?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, it is my first time here in the Middle East, it's really beautiful and I really love the hotel we're staying at.   
So, hopefully I can have a little bit of a beach day tomorrow, just, yeah, it's really nice here, so I'm just enjoying the week.   
THE MODERATOR: All right. Thank you.   
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT