THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 2, 2019
Amanda Anisimova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. ANISIMOVA/S. Cirstea   
6-3, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How do you feel?  I'm wondering what your experience is like here so far.  You're in this sacred place of tennis.  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, it's amazing.  It's my first Wimbledon, so it's been a really exciting day for me.  I'm really happy I got to win my first round here.  I'm really happy I get to play another round.   
 Q.  What's it like compared to your expectations, Wimbledon, the whole thing?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Oh, it's amazing.  I played juniors here, but playing in the real thing this time, it feels amazing.  I'm just trying to enjoy every moment that I can have.   
So, yeah, honestly I don't mind spending all day here, honestly, because it's so beautiful.  I love every second.   
 Q.  What would you say your takeaway from your incredible experience in Paris would be?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, it was an amazing couple of weeks.  I'm really happy with what I was able to achieve, because it's something that I worked for since I was a little kid.   
To have that happen is just amazing, and I'm really happy that I get to have that, because at the beginning of the year I wasn't expecting, like, an accomplishment like that.   
I'm just going to keep building on it and I'm going to use it as motivation.   
 Q.  Sonya had a great French, too.  She took down Serena.  And now we saw what Coco did yesterday.  Could you talk about this surge in young Americans?  And talk about Coco also, please.  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, it's amazing.  New generation of Americans coming up.  We have so many great players.  So it's really exciting, honestly.   
I'm really happy that we get to support each other throughout this, and, yeah, it's good to have so many great players coming up.   
 Q.  Just a little bit more on Coco.  Do you play with her much?  Have you hit with her?  Do you know her as a person?  Could you just share a little bit on that front, please?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, I played her in the US Open final.  At a young age, she got to the finals.  That was definitely surprising.  Yeah, I'm sure she has a really bright future.   
 Q.  Same question about Naomi Osaka, too.  She had a really tough loss.  She had a tough time in her press conference, crying, and she had to leave early.  I'm wondering, what do you think she's going through?  And how can she get over that?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, definitely this sport can bring out some emotions.  It's not all butterflies and rainbows.  Yeah, she's probably going through some tough times, but I'm sure she will be able to get through it.   
I mean, last year she showed what a great champion she is.  Yeah, I'm sure that she has a great team around her, so, yeah, we'll see how it goes.   
 Q.  A lot of people talk about the difficulty in transitioning from clay to grass.  How do you go about that?  And how do you feel your grass court game compares to clay?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, I haven't played on grass at all much, so that's good that I had, like, no expectations for myself.  And I'm feeling no, like, pressure or anything like that.  I'm just going to enjoy every moment, because it's my first Wimbledon.  Yeah, as I said, I didn't really play on grass too much.   
 Q.  I tell you what impresses me a lot about your play and how you handle yourself is your maturity, your composure, your ability to stay focused and having control of things.  How do you do that?  Where is that coming from?  Is that something you train to do?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, it's definitely something I have worked on.  I haven't always been like this.  I work on it every single day.  Today it wasn't 100% as much as I wanted it to be.   
So, yeah, honestly I look at Roger Federer, he's an inspiration to me when it comes to this.  Yeah, he was kind of like me when he was my age.  I definitely try to be like him and work on myself every single day to get better.   
 Q.  Next round you play Magda Linette.  Do you know her tennis?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, she's a great player.  I have actually practiced with her quite a bit.  It should be an interesting match because we haven't played each other before.   
 Q.  If I'm not mistaken, you're quite active on social media.  Just talk about that.  What role does that play in your life?  Do you enjoy it?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, I use social media quite a bit.  As my platform gets bigger, I think that's a great thing so I can use it for important things and spreading messages.   
Yeah, honestly, I think it's a great tool for, you know, using it for positive things as much as I can do.   
 Q.  Is it disappointing having to wear white here?  There's not too much imagination the way you design or wear clothes?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, I'm a pretty colorful person.  I like to be bold.  I think it's amazing, honestly, because you get to have a couple of weeks in one year where everybody has to wear white.   
I think it's pretty cool.  Yeah, it's traditional, so I like it.   
 Q.  You talked about messages that matter to you.  If I could ask you in a serious vein, you were outspoken about the situation that happened with gun violence in your state just a year ago.  Are you satisfied with the progress that's been made, or are you disappointed?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, I mean, there are so many things going on in the world right now, so, yeah, back then, I mean, it was definitely very scary and not a good thing.   
But, you know, it is what it is.  You know, people have their opinions on everything, so we do what we can do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT