ROLAND GARROS
June 7, 2019
Amanda Anisimova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. BARTY/A. Anisimova   
6-7, 6-3, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It was a very up-and-down, back-and-forth match.  The first set you were way down and came back.  Second set you got up.  How did you see the match sort of going from your perspective?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, I mean, I started off pretty rough.  I mean, I was kind of, like, frozen and I couldn't really get into my game.  And then when I was down 5-0, I just tried to keep the ball in the court, and then I went up in that set.   
And then it was just really tough from when I finished the first set, I was just -- she was playing really well.  And it was just really tough to win that match.   
 Q.  From just being a set and then once you got to 3-Love in the second set, what was kind of the mindset?  Seemed like there was a lot of excitement among fans and everything of being three games away.  So from your perspective at that point in the second set, what was going through your mind and how do you think it kind of flipped the other way?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, I guess.  But I wasn't really, like, excited because I still had to work to win the set.  So, I mean, I was just trying to do the same thing I was doing, but she just stayed consistent, and it was just really tough.  Because, I mean, I kind of struggled with her game, so she just outplayed me basically.   
 Q.  At the start of the third set when it started to rain, were you expecting play to be halted perhaps?  How did that affect you?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, there was rain and wind throughout pretty much the whole match, so it was just something you had to deal with.  I thought we were going to stop at one point, but we didn't, so I just kept on playing.   
 Q.  How was the whole atmosphere?  What was the experience like today?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, I mean, it's amazing even though I'm obviously upset I lost, because I'm always upset if I lose, because, you know, it's disappointing.   
But at the end of the day, I did make it to the semifinals for the first time.  So, I mean, it's a positive week for me (smiling).   
Yeah, I'm just going to try and be happy about the couple weeks, and hopefully today I'll be a little bit happier than I am right now.   
 Q.  When do you think you'll be able to gauge what you have really done?  You said it hadn't really sunk in, getting to the quarters, and you got to the semis.  Must look back on the past couple of weeks with a lot of self-admiration?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, I'm really happy that I finished the last clay tournament like this, because, I mean, the clay season has been up and down.  So it's just amazing to do so well in a clay Grand Slam.   
I'm just really happy about these couple of weeks.  I'm really excited about the grass season.  I gained a lot of confidence in the past couple of weeks.   
 Q.  How different is she as an opponent compared to most players you play?  She's got the slice, other things.  How different of an experience playing her game?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: I mean, I have played players similar to her that like to slice a lot.  I have played a lot of players that actually have that game plan against me, but today she was just too good.   
I'll just keep working and practicing, and hopefully I can get to have a rematch soon.   
 Q.  You say she was just too good.  Was that just the experience, just an experience thing, that that's what you've got to get to?  Could you see your own future perhaps, in terms of experience, anyway?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, I mean, it was just a tough match.  I mean, it's not like I'm going to at one point win every single match I play.  There are always going to be losses.  It was just a tough day today.  She played well, so all credit to her.   
 Q.  I'm not sure I have ever seen you play on grass.  Curious how you feel about grass and what you're looking forward to in that stretch of the season coming up?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: I played Junior Wimbledon one time and I lost, like, 13-11 in the third set or something, so...   
So, yeah, everyone tells me my game suits grass well, but that time I didn't leave thinking that.  Hopefully, with a little bit more practice and getting used to it, then maybe I can do well.  We'll see how this year goes.   
 Q.  What did you think that you were able to do well today to get yourself into good positions?  What sort of shots or tactics do you think were effective?  Then when she was able to reel things back for herself, what did you think was effective from her side that was more of a challenge for you?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: I mean, the biggest thing for me was to play aggressive.  But with the conditions today, I thought that was very tough and I couldn't really play my game to my full extent.   
I was just trying to be a little bit more consistent, because with the wind that's all I could really do.  It was just tough overall.  I mean, yeah, I just have to practice more in tough conditions maybe.  I don't know.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT