ROLAND GARROS
June 6, 2019
Amanda Anisimova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. ANISIMOVA/S. Halep   
6-2, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Do you realize what is happening, semifinal against the world No. 3, everything?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: No, I don't think it will sink in, at least not for today.   
Yeah, I mean, it's crazy.  I really can't believe the result today.  And getting the opportunity to play against Simona, that's amazing, but how it ended is even crazier to me.   
 Q.  Great win today.  I know you are a big fan of the TV program Grey's Anatomy.  You have also said that if you weren't a tennis player, you would be a surgeon.  So do you think that was a very clinical performance today?  And can you also tell us why you think you're playing such great tennis here at Roland Garros over the last few weeks?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, it's pretty funny.  Yeah, I have been playing very well.  But today I knew I had to do something different, because playing against Simona, I mean, I knew it wasn't going to be easy.  She's an amazing athlete and player.   
I was just trying to show my best tennis and trying to play different from what I normally play, because I knew I had to do something a little bit different just to get the win.   
I'm really happy with my performance today.   
 Q.  You were up 3-0 in the second.  What was going through your mind as Simona started to mount a comeback?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, every time I had a lead and I was winning, I knew I wasn't actually winning.  I mean, I knew she could come back at any moment, so I wasn't thinking about winning or not.  I was just thinking about playing each point and trying to get ahead.   
Yeah, as it was getting closer, it was very tough.  You know, nerves were kicking in a bit.  But I was able to make a couple of winners and necessary points and just play the tennis that I wanted to play today.   
 Q.  Less than two years ago you were the junior winner at the US Open and now you're into a semifinal here.  What's the process been like from the juniors into the WTA where you faced obviously some challenges?  But it's been a pretty quick turnaround for you.  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, I mean, the juniors was fun times.  There were a lot of, actually, challenges I faced in juniors that helped me go and transition into the pros.   
I mean, it's different.  Yeah, definitely I had to make changes and adjust a little bit.  I actually kind of miss juniors, but, I mean, this is a new phase.  It's my first year having a full schedule on tour.  It's definitely something that I'm getting used to.   
 Q.  You said towards the end the nerves were kicking in, but in the beginning you didn't seem, from the outside, anyway, you didn't seem very nervous playing Simona Halep on center court.  What do you put that down to?  How come you're able to approach that match seemingly without being nervous?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, I mean, I didn't look nervous is because I wasn't.  I was just super excited and I was really happy with the opportunity.  I felt really good today, like, healthy, because early in the rounds I didn't really feel good.   
Playing tennis when you feel good is just really good.  That's why I was really happy today to get to play healthy.   
I mean, yeah, I was just going out to -- I was very excited.  And to have this opportunity, I mean, it's just amazing.  That's why I was playing really well in the first set.  But in the second set I was, like, Oh, I have to do it again (smiling).   
 Q.  Some days ago I asked you if you were dreaming a road to the quarterfinals, and now today you have won it.  You answered that day by day you didn't look so forward.  Now, any new dreams today?  Are you thinking about the match against Barty and what it could come?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, I always think the day before about the next round.  I have never played her before, but I'm really looking forward to it.  It should be a good match.  I mean, I have watched her play a couple of times and I think she's a very good player.   
I'm just really happy that -- actually, I'm really happy that I get to play tomorrow.  I don't have to wait a whole day, because I get really eager to want to go on the court, so I'm happy I get to play tomorrow.   
 Q.  As I understand it, this was your first time on Chatrier?  And if so, what was the sense or emotion of that?  Could you remind us how old you were when you left New Jersey for Florida?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, the first couple of days I got here, I actually got to practice on it, so I thought it was an amazing court.  I mean, it would be a dream to play on it.  And I was, like, Wow, this is so cool to get to actually practice on it.   
But today, I actually got to play a match on it against Simona, so it's honestly a dream.  I can't ask for anything else.   
And, yeah, I left when I was, about, two or three.  It was actually for my sister's tennis, because she played college tennis, so we were moving a little bit.   
 Q.  I asked Simona to describe this new generation, younger women's tennis players.  She said you girls, like yourself and Vondrousova, you have the courage that they didn't have when they were 17 and 18, you have the aggressivity they didn't have.  Where does this come from?  You just grow like that?  Are there any methods?  She was really shy, Simona, when she was 17 or 18.  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: I don't really know.  I mean, I obviously respect every opponent I play.  Doesn't matter what ranking they are.   
Yeah, I was going out there and I'm playing Halep.  She won last year.  Obviously I respect her a lot.  But I know I'm capable of doing a lot, and I know I can play very well.   
I mean, I never doubt my abilities.  Today that showed that.   
 Q.  Obviously you have such a great game.  Could you just take a moment and talk about your coaching, what your dad contributed, what Nick Saviano and what Jamie has contributed?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, I have had a couple of coaches throughout my lifetime.  So, I mean, they have all done so much for me, each coach that I had, and my dad and my mom.  Everyone has done a lot for me.   
I feel like they have all kind of, you know, tried to adjust little things in my game and that's what helps me today.  They all helped me in different departments of my game.   
 Q.  What do you think about neither of the women's semifinals tomorrow being on Chatrier?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Neither of them on Chatrier?  I didn't know that.  Then where are they (smiling)?   
 Q.  Between Suzanne Lenglen and Simonne Mathieu.  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Well, I got to play on both -- no, I didn't play on Suzanne Lenglen.  Okay, it doesn't really matter.  They're all beautiful courts.  Whatever court they put me on to play in, I'm going to be happy.  They are all amazing courts.   
 Q.  Simona Halep told us that you could win the tournament.  Do you agree with her?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: I'm not really thinking about that.  I'm just happy with today, and I'm really looking forward to my next match.   
I'm just letting it all just kick in a little bit.  I'm just really happy with everything that's been happening.   
I don't try to think about the future.   
 Q.  You're into the semifinals.  You haven't dropped a set.  You just beat the reigning champion.  Has this process or this tournament felt easier than you might expect in terms of making your first major semifinal, like, what has the actual kind of approach or -- I don't know.  Are you surprised at all that you have been able to do this over the fortnight?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Actually, when I was playing in Australia, I was thinking about, like, winning it (smiling).  It seems like such a hard thing to do.  I didn't really think that I could.   
I mean, it just seemed, like, very difficult.  And even getting past Petra, she just killed me in that match.   
Yeah, in this tournament, I feel a lot more confident and feeling my game a bit better than I did there.   
 Q.  You mentioned a couple of times that you had to do something differently today against Halep.  What exactly tennis-wise did you do differently today?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: I don't know.  I just played the best tennis of my life.  I don't know how, and I don't know how I did it, but it just happened (smiling).   
 Q.  Can you take us through what you did yesterday waiting for your match?  How did you handle it?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, I was just, like, sleeping in the locker room.  I thought I wasn't going to play, so I was just sleeping.   
And then I left, and I was in traffic a lot, because I wanted to get new shoes.  I was trying to find off-white Nike shoes.  Then when I got there -- I was driving for, like, a total of two hours.  And then I didn't get them, and I was like, Wow, that was a bad idea.  Why am I exhausting myself right now?   
Then I just had dinner and went back to the hotel.  Yeah, that was all that happened yesterday.   
 Q.  You're in the semis of Roland Garros, but you just said you miss juniors.  What do you miss about it?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, actually, because the juniors are on right now, and I saw this girl here and we were talking.  Because she just finished juniors and she was here to practice.  We were like, yeah, like, juniors was so fun, like, remember?   
I don't know.  It was just, like, a fun environment and everyone was just hanging out.  It's kind of different in the WTA.  I don't have that many friends, I'd say.   
Yeah, I just miss that a little bit, traveling.  There were South American tournaments that I remember and I had good memories there.  So just those little memories with old friends.   
 Q.  You just told us you played great tennis and you didn't think about it a lot.  Do you think you play your best tennis when you are just playing from instinct and not overthinking and just doing what comes naturally on the court?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: Yeah, definitely that's something I work on, just being composed, because that's when I play my best tennis when I'm not really nervous.   
I think I have done a better job.  Like, I've practiced it.  I tried to put myself in difficult situations and try to face challenges and try to calm down when that happens.   
Yeah, it's definitely a big thing in tennis.  It's definitely what I have been working on.   
 Q.  Just looking ahead to Ash, you said you saw her play a couple of matches and obviously aware of her.  What are the challenges do you think of playing Ash?  When you see her play in those matches, what do you see as a player about her game?  
AMANDA ANISIMOVA: I don't -- I don't know.  I'm just going to talk to my coach about my strategies for tomorrow.  I don't really focus on my opponent that much.  I just listen to what my coach will say, a couple of things.   
But I mostly focus on myself and what I'm going to do in that match just based on what I practice.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT