U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2015
Garrett Rank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How excited are you to start with a 68?
GARRETT RANK: Yeah, it's a good start.  I've been playing well recently, so any time you can keep it around par or a couple under in a USGA event, you've got to be pleased with that.
Q. Do you think you could have gone lower today?
GARRETT RANK: Absolutely.  The course was playing pretty soft with the rain we got just at the beginning of the round, and I could have been a couple better, but I could have been a couple worse, too.  Stayed really patient, really steady, and good, solid round of golf.
Q. How disappointed were you not to make that short eagle putt on 18?
GARRETT RANK: Yeah, finishing with an eagle would have made dinner taste pretty good, but it's a birdie, and I was trying to make it, and it just didn't go in.
Q. How about your play?  Obviously you played pretty well at the Canadian Amateur.  How about your play this summer so far?
GARRETT RANK: I mean, had to shake a little bit of rust off after the hockey season, but game has been close, kind of just had a couple bad holes each day like at the Canadian Open, and at the Pan-Am Games was playing awesome golf and just had a few big numbers each day.  Again, it's been really close, and it's finally nice to put a few good days together.
Q. Since you have the other job as a hockey official, how do you balance the two?  How do you make it work?
GARRETT RANK: I think it makes golf a little bit easier because it doesn't matter as much.  You're out there knowing that you're just playing for fun now and there's really no repercussions for a great score or a bad score.  I take my clubs with me as much as I can on the road, and I played probably 10 rounds of golf this winter.  It's not like the clubs were sitting in the closet.  Yeah, I was able to get some games in.
Q. Where is there a West Coast trip that you can do that?
GARRETT RANK: Well, I went to -- there's a couple American Hockey League teams in Texas, so I took my clubs down there, and California just got five American League teams this year, so I'm sure I'll spend a bunch of time in California.
Q. Will you be able to play other events besides this one with hockey season coming up?
GARRETT RANK: Yeah, I'm going to sign up for the U.S. Mid-Am, and I'm opening I can get in.  It'll be tough.  I'll probably have to ask the NHLOA for a couple days off at the end of the preseason, but I'm hoping I can play, and playing the Canadian Mid-Amateur next week, so yeah, got a few events coming up.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT