U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2016
Garrett Rank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You're heading to the round of 32.  You played in this five times, this is your fifth time now.  What's different now?  You never made it past the round of 32 before.  What's different?
GARRETT RANK: Yeah, nothing has really changed.  I think I just gained a little bit of experience each time I've come and played this event, and you just try and draw on that.  Last year I got a little bit impatient when it was all square through 15, tried to force a through things, and just stuck with it today and thankfully came out with a 1-up victory.
Q. Tell us more about the golf course, what makes Oakland Hills such a great championship-style golf course?
GARRETT RANK: Yeah, really long.  You've got to drive it in the fairway, and we can't really overpower it because a lot of the bunkers are kind of in our landing area, so you've really got to hit a good shot off the tee.  Then the green complexes, there are a lot of slopes, and it's playing soft right now, and if it dries out or gets firmer, it's going to be a real challenge and par is going to be a great score.
Q. We met you at the four-ball earlier this year at Winged Foot and we just loved your personality.  Brad Faxon loves your golf swing, but we've been mentioning you have a day job; you're a professional hockey referee.  How do you keep your game honed so you can compete against all these other players?
GARRETT RANK: Kind of very athletic move and try and stay in shape, and mentally I think it's good to get away from the game for a little bit during the off-season.  I'd be lying if I didn't tell you I played every day for the last three months.  I feel confident with my game right now, and I'm just trying to keep it sharp in the wintertime.
Q. For the rest of the day everybody else is kind of waiting out this rain delay.  How do you spend the rest of the day?
GARRETT RANK: I missed lunch buffet so I'm going to go to Chipotle, I think, but yeah, just relax and hopefully the rain passes and probably spend the afternoon by the pool.
Q. You just got called up to the NHL; is that correct?
GARRETT RANK: I did, yeah.  Two weeks ago I signed a full-time NHL contract to work 73 games, so I'm looking forward to that.  It was a good week.  I made the cut on the PGA TOUR and signed a full-time NHL contract, so dream week for me.
Q. Maybe you can add an Amateur Championship to that, as well.
GARRETT RANK: That wouldn't suck.  Would be really cool.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT