RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 23, 2016
Garrett Rank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nice day out there.  How did you feel about that round?
GARRETT RANK: You know, what it wasn't bad.  I played pretty solid for the most part and just got off to a bad start.  It wasn't nerves.  It wasn't anything like that.  Just got unlucky on No. 4 and hit a good one shot.  Just came up about a yard short.  Rolled in the bunker and made five from there.
It was a tough way to begin the day, but settled in nicely.  76 isn't great, but I'm just playing the weekend on the PGA TOUR, so I can't really complain.
Q. That's a pretty big smile across your face when you say those words.  What does it mean?
GARRETT RANK: It's a huge honor.  Something I'll remember for the rest of my life.  Being Canadian and playing in your National Open, and tomorrow walking down 18 will be something special I hope.  Definitely a memory that I'll have for the rest of my life.
Q. What do you think when you see Jared doing what he's doing?  What does it say about the national team program you're a part of?
GARRETT RANK: They have helped me tremendously and they are growing the game from the amateur level, and now with the Young Pro Program, we have a lot of guys coming up that have really brought their game to a new level.  I'm pumped for Jared.  I hope he plays well today.  I played with him the last two days and we had a lot of fun.
He's playing really well and he seems to be in control.  Hopefully he can keep it together and it would be really special for him to do something sweet out there the next couple days.
Q. You've got a good record in a lot of the Amateur events; what are your plans for the summer?
GARRETT RANK: Playing the Porter Cup next week.  Monday I have my U.S. Am qualifier in West Virginia, and then playing the Porter Cup next week and then the Western Am the following week and then the Canadian Amateur.
A because he three weeks coming up but that's the life I want to live if I want to referee in the winner and golf in the summer.
Q. Just got promoted up to the NHL, it's a big story, I hear a lot of players have been talking to you about that.  What kind of questions are they asking?
GARRETT RANK: Yeah, just asked me how my golf game is, or a few guys would ask me if I would want to go out and play. It's really cool.  Kind of breaks the ice a little bit and doesn't make a call too bad in their minds.
I played with three guys on Tuesday, and after the third or fourth hole, once they figured out what I did for a living, they were pretty intrigued.  I think being in the golf circle and playing golf with golfers all the time, I think it was kind of neat for them just to see another sport at its highest level.  We traded a few stories and it was a lot of fun.
Q. What's tougher, a 4-footer with a few feet of break or calling back a penalty or a goal or something in the last minute?
GARRETT RANK: Well, we got video review to help us, so it would be nice if I could go back and review a couple of my shots out there today.  But definitely grinding out here with the speed of the greens and the wind, it was pretty tough today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT