RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 28, 2012
Matt Hill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Welcome to Canadian Tour TV's coverage of the RBC Canadian Open.   We're here with Matt Hill.   Matt, 71 today, sitting at even par for the tournament.   You're right in for the weekend for Rivermead Cup honors.   That's gotta be something you're looking forward to tomorrow.   
MATT HILL:   Yeah.   It was kind of a tough day out there.   I didn't really get anything out of my round.   Got off to a decent start.   I was 2‑under through six, so just didn't really get much going after that and hit it in a couple of spots where I shouldn't have hit it, but there's always tomorrow, and I'm just going to try and go out there and shoot a real good one.  
   
 Q.   You told me you didn't score as well as you hit the ball.   You felt that way.   You gotta still take some positives from that looking to tomorrow?  
MATT HILL:   Yeah.   You know, I hit a lot of good shots out there, hit my lines a lot, and just pretty well didn't hit it great on the last five holes and kind of grinded it out.   
But yeah, you know, hit a few on the range and get the right mindset going into tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   That being said you're still playing well in a PGA TOUR event.   What are some maybe the differences between a regular Canadian tour event and what you've experienced this week on the PGA TOUR?  
MATT HILL:   You know, obviously the field is pretty strong here.   The guys here are taking advantage of the low scoring conditions.   You can obviously see that by the scores, and you just really gotta manage your game really well here, and your short game and putting is huge.   That's probably one of the biggest differences out here as well.  
   
 Q.   Barring a great score tomorrow and a Top 10 to get into next week's event, you'll be back on the Canadian tour in a couple of weeks.   What are some lessons you might take from this week into the rest of the season?  
MATT HILL:   Yeah.   I feel like I haven't really played my best golf this week and I made the cut, and still a chance to shoot a good one tomorrow and take some positives out of that.   
But I feel like my game's real close right now to competing out here.   So I think that's some of the biggest positives.  
   
 Q.   Awesome.   Good luck tomorrow, and we hope to see you become the third straight member to win the Rivermead Cup.   
MATT HILL:   All right.   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT