MAUI JIM MAUI INVITATIONAL
November 23, 2016
John Thompson III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Oklahoma State - 97, Georgetown - 70   
THE MODERATOR: We have Coach Thompson here from Georgetown.  We'll jump right into questions.   
 Q.  Just looking at the box score, it looks like turnovers were the story of the day.  
COACH THOMPSON: Yeah, it was.  You know, yesterday rebounding was the story of the game.  You know, we did a little better job with that today.  And today was turnovers.  I mean, that's what they do.  They make you do that.   
We had to handle it better and we didn't.   
 Q.  With the turnovers, was it just a matter of them getting you guys sped up or what did you see?  
COACH THOMPSON: It was a combination of a lot of things.  I could be wrong about this -- I gotta go back and watch the film -- but I don't think most of it was us getting sped up.  We made poor decisions.  We dribbled into areas and picked up the ball where you shouldn't dribble into areas and picked up the ball.   
And so we have -- and in no way I'm not -- this is not me making excuses, but we had some guys out there that were in that situation for the first time, the first time, either a freshman, or it was their first time with us.   
And so it's a learning experience for them.  I don't want to be flippant, pass it off as that.  But, as I said, if we can take today's game, if we can take yesterday's game and if we can learn from it and not make the same mistakes as the year goes on, then this was beneficial for us.  Sitting here right now doesn't feel that way.  But they do a good job of turning it over.   
We did not do a good job of protecting the ball.  We did not do a good job of keeping our dribble, maintaining our dribble.  Once you pick it up, you're dead.   
And so it's one thing to talk about that in practice, show them film, but it's another thing when you face it.  Now we've faced it.  And not too many people do it as well as they do.  And so hopefully we're better the next time we see it.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Coach.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT