LPGA Q-SERIES
October 30, 2019
Min Seo Kwak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So you're coming out of here with quite a round here to get you back up the leaderboard. What was today like for you in adjusting to a new course?
MIN SEO KWAK: Well, I like the green so I putted better. That was the key. I think that's all.
Q. Did you like No. 9? What's the difference between 6 and now 9?
MIN SEO KWAK: I don't really know about the green. The grass is different, so I feel like I can putt better on this grass.
So I like the grass, green, yeah.
Q. Since the Symetra Tour championship what have you been doing to prepare for this experience?
MIN SEO KWAK: I tried to rest a lot because I need energy to hit the ball. Yeah, I just rest, sleep well, eat well. That's all.
Q. When the season was over for Symetra were you relieved to have a little bit of a break before this, or was it right back at it?
MIN SEO KWAK: I was kind of disappointed that I ended up like outside top 10, but I like to have some more time to rest after, so I rested a lot. Then after I rested it feels better now.
Q. What was your first week like for you?
MIN SEO KWAK: First week was like hard. I struggled a lot. I don't know it's weather-wise or I don't know. I did not like that course, honestly.
Yeah, that's why I struggled. But I like this course, so I can go low hopefully for three days.
Q. What do you tell yourself when you might be struggling on No. 6 knowing there are so many rounds ahead of you?
MIN SEO KWAK: Well, No. 6, I don't know, like visualize it was kind of different for me. Looks like narrow. Like it looks longer. I don't know. For me, that's the reason I hit it bad.
Q. What's it like being able to see people that you've played with before and seeing newcomers come through Q-Series? What does that do to motivate you?
MIN SEO KWAK: I don't know. It feels just comfortable seeing like my friends all here, seeing new faces. I don't know them, but feels like more comfortable, like family, so I like that way better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT