NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 21, 1997
Patrick Dovigi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Yeah, that's correct. 
 
No, we were under a lot of pressure. Our coach was under the gun. He felt if he lost with the rookie alot more pressure would be on him. He offered to go with a third year guy and our coach resigned in the beginning of January and the coach who took over for his position gave me the opportunity to step in the job if I lost it. 
 
Yeah. It made me feel real good because I had a feeling if somebody wanted me that bad they would have to take me. The gaolie was getting a lot less. I kind of had a feeling it was coming. 
 
Yeah, it was a long first round my first three hours. When they called my name, it was great.  I had a feeling it was going to be them.  I was just so relieved. 
 
Yeah, on a few occasions and Mr. Chadwick went with my goaltender coach and gave me a good feeling from that. 
 
I'm a stand up goaltender like Mike Richter and I like to play the puck a lot. 
 
Well, I don't know if that's hard, but I do shoot it pretty hard.  That's part of my game since I was a little kid other than that, that's it. 
 
No, I almost did this year put it through the crease. 
 
I didn't really know what to expect from being rated so low at the end of the year and then being rated seventh but I guess it was just nerves and once those were calm, now I am with Edmonton, I can't say enough about it. 
 
Well, I had a pretty good feeling.  I wasn't expecting anything. I thought I was going to go to a few other teams too, but I didn't think I was going that early. 
 
I haven't looked into. The only one I know in the minors. I read a story on Pat and ^ Carl Stern. Other than that, I don't know. 
  
No. I'm looking for two to three years hopefully. With a lot of hard work and the right coaching, I think I can make the jump within two or three years. 
 
Well, I wasn't really sure because I didn't know what anybody was really looking for. The way teams are thinking they were the top two goalies and the rest were going in the third or fourth round. As soon as they called my name, I don't know what to do, I almost passed out. 
 
I played in Elmira Junior B in the midwestern hockey league 
 
IMG, Mike Barnet. 
 
Jason Ward went to Montreal 11th. Other than that, the other guys are rated a lot lower. So, I'll stick around and wait to see what happens with them. 
 
Mike Richter style stand up and like to play the puck a lot. 
 
My Dad made me stand up. Whenever I went down, I got a puck in the head, so, other than that, no. 
 
He played junior in the Souix. 
 
Fred Dovigi. 
 
A long time ago. 
 
Yeah, one day in the backyard we were playing with my cousins and my uncles and they put me in the net also and ever since that day, I have been playing the net. My mom went away on a business trip and my dad bought me the hockey equipment. I head it when she got back. 
 
Nine.  When I started playing goalie. 
 
Yeah, but it was pretty big decision because I was one of the best skaters coming out of Sioux. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT