NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: FLAMES v SHARKS
May 9, 2004
Vincent Damphousse
Patrick Marleau
Scott Thornton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 VINCENT DAMPHOUSSE:  We did what we had to do defensively.  We got over 50 shots.  Did some really good things.  But we made some mistakes turning the puck over.  In our zone, we got to toughen it up a little bit and we'll be fine.  I think we did a lot of good things tonight.  
 Q.  Kiprusoff, you put a lot of pucks on him.  
 VINCENT DAMPHOUSSE:  They both had a lot of shots.  It's pretty unusual.  I think they had 40, we had 50.  Both teams had lots of opportunities.  We didn't expect that in the first game.  
 Q.  Were you disappointed with the way the team came out in the third period?  
 VINCENT DAMPHOUSSE:  No, I don't recall in the third that we started off bad.  I know they scored.  But I think overall, the first 10 minutes of the game, you know, everything settled down, they scored some quick goals.  We had an opportunity in five-on-three that may have been a turning point in the game.  We were able to battle back anyway.  
 In overtime, I thought we had most of the chances.  Throughout the game, we made some mistakes that they capitalized on.  That's unusual for our team.  
 SCOTT THORNTON:  They don't quit.  Every shift you have to be sharp out there.  You know, the overtime goal, a mental error from me, not getting the puck deep.  Had a bad change as well.  Got out there a little bit late.  They took advantage of it.  
 You know, on the positive side, I think we had a lot of great opportunities down in their zone.  Kipper is just so good at second and third efforts in there.  We really put some rebounds at him.  Hopefully we'll get some of those breaks.  
 Q.  They were optimistic that you were a very good team that owned very much that game, (inaudible) to come away with that game.  
 SCOTT THORNTON:  Yeah, you know, it's only Game 1, so we're not really frustrated yet.  We're pretty happy with a lot of things we did tonight.  Definitely worked hard, we got a lot of good shots, got some good rebounds and good puck pursuit.  It's kind of unfortunate the way the game had to end, with a mental mistake or two.  It cost us.  They capitalized.  
 I think it's going to be a great series.  
 Q.  They are a great home team.  The situation with the two-man advantage, did that change the emotional momentum, at least?  
 SCOTT THORNTON:  Not necessarily.  I don't think -- you know, we didn't quit after that.  You know, it was obviously a great opportunity for us to get a big goal or two there.  But, you know, that's part of playoffs.  
 As far as home ice goes, it's always nice to play at home.  But, you know, there's no time right now to be a "homer."  We just have to go out and win every game.  We're going to have to win a game in there, too. 
 Q.  Trouble this post-season in overtime.  Anything you can put your finger on? 
 PATRICK MARLEAU:  No, we're getting our chances.  We just got to keep going to the net and keep shooting.  
 Q.  Even though you guys had great opportunities, it seemed like every time you gave yourself a split second to exhale, they took advantage of every slight break.  Even that winning goal was basically on a line change.  
 PATRICK MARLEAU:  Yeah, like I said, we need to minimize our mistakes.  We turn the puck over, that's what they're waiting for.  They counterattack, that's when they get most of their scoring chances.  
 Q.  The good news is you really withheld Iginla.  He was a non-factor.  
 PATRICK MARLEAU:  You got to worry about everybody out there.  I think, like I said, we got to minimize our mistakes and not give them too many opportunities like we did tonight.  
 Q.  They're a good road team; you are supposed to be a good home team.  
 PATRICK MARLEAU:  We just got to take it one game at a time, you know, worry about the next game, and after that worry about the next one.  

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT