NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: SHARKS v BLUES
May 24, 2016
Patrick Marleau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions for Patrick Marleau.   
   
 Q. What has made Joe a good captain?  
PATRICK MARLEAU: Just being himself, playing hard. When you play hard, play the system to a T, he's doing what the coach wants, what he expects. When your leaders do that, it's easy to follow that.   
   
 Q. You guys don't have a single guy on the roster who has been to the Cup Finals. Pete has. Is there any way his experience can benefit the guys?  
PATRICK MARLEAU: Don't we have some guys that have been to the Finals? Jones, Paul Martin, Zubrus. We got a few (laughter).   
   
 Q. Let me rephrase.   
PATRICK MARLEAU: No, you know, you have to start somewhere. It's about the group of guys we got playing for each other and winning games. We've done it throughout the season, throughout the playoffs. We're going to have to keep continue doing it.   
   
 Q. They're changing goaltenders again. Any effect on you guys?   
PATRICK MARLEAU: We still have to play our game in order to get our chances and opportunities.  
   
 Q. How do those two guys differ?  
PATRICK MARLEAU: You know, it's one of those things where they're both really good goalies. It's more about what we have to do to try to get the puck by them.   
   
 Q. You haven't been in a Stanley Cup Final, but you won two Olympic gold medals, pressure playing for Canada. Can you dip into that experience in this moment?  
PATRICK MARLEAU: Yeah, definitely have dipped into that, for sure. Those are some pretty high‑pressure situations. Having been through that, now with the team, you try and bring that composure. When the pressure does get up, you have to dig in and do your best.   
   
 Q. Your goal is not to make the Finals, but to win the Cup. Can you talk about what it would mean to win it as a Shark.   
PATRICK MARLEAU: It would be huge. Something I always wanted to do here for the fans, for the Bay Area. They've been supporting us over the years. They deserve it.   
   
 Q. Was there ever a point this year you thought you wouldn't have this opportunity with this team?  
PATRICK MARLEAU: No, it's been good right from the start. This year we've won games where you never think we would. We found ways to battle and win games all year long.   
When things like that happen, you get that confidence, being on the road, winning games, it brings the guys together.   
   
 Q. Noticed anything from your neighbors, the parents of your kids' friends yet, starting to pay more attention at this point?  
PATRICK MARLEAU: There are Sharks fans everywhere. When you're around town, picking kids up from school, grabbing a coffee, they're all making little comments, supporting us.   
   
 Q. Fans love their team. Because of you and Jumbo and Pavelski, you're well‑liked across the hockey world. We've watched as the team has been so close so many times. Do you feel the support, there's people out there that really want you to do this?  
PATRICK MARLEAU: Yeah, I think so. Just like I said, going around town, talking to fans, having their support, you can feel it. You can feel it in our building, for sure. The fans are always great.   
   
 Q. Are you happy the way things turn out that you are still a Shark? Sometimes teams go through changes.   
PATRICK MARLEAU: I'm happy where I'm at right now. Things are going good, so...   
Thank you.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT