CHAMP CAR MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 3, 2003
Sebastien Bourdais
Bruno Junqueira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
BRUNO JUNQUEIRA:  Thank you.  Good afternoon. 
 
SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  Hi, everybody. 
 
BRUNO JUNQUEIRA:  I'm very happy inaudible) the Newman/Haas team.  I think it's a very good team.  We did a very good pre-season test that gives us a chance to be really competitive.  But, unfortunately the first two races, we had so many problems in qualifying that couldn't give us a chance to win the races.  But I think if you are strong enough, you're going to be strong till the end of the year.  It's very important in the CART series to score points every race.  I hope we can continue scoring points and trying to win some races. 
 
BRUNO JUNQUEIRA:  I think me and Newman/Haas Racing are delighted to have PacifiCare.  It's their first year in motor racing.  They are putting a big effort and really doing a lot of things that's pretty nice.  I'm going a week early to Long Beach because PacifiCare headquarters is in Long Beach.  That's going to be their home race.  I hope I can get a good result for them in Long Beach. 
 
SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  It's a lot higher than the expectations we could have since the beginning of the year.  We started very well.  We had two poles.  To be honest, I was really surprised to get these results.  But during the races, we were leading in both of the first events, and we didn't succeed to get the final result.  It's a bit of frustration.  But, anyway, we are also competitive both weekends.  All I can expect is to finally win one soon. 
 
SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  It's been really, really interesting.  It's a bit scary when you start because you don't know really well the limits, between the driver and the car also.  It's very difficult to estimate this.  After a couple of runs, you can start to get some sensations and a better feeling, so you start to push a bit more, but always with a lot of precaution because it's really easy to do a mistake.  With the downforce we have on the cars, on the ovals, it's really quick.  You really need to take your time not to do a big mistake which really can have a big consequence on yourself and on the car.  It was really interesting.  We finally got something pretty good.  Now I can say that I really had my first experience and I know more where I am on an oval. 
 
BRUNO JUNQUEIRA:  No.  I just told him to make sure where the end of the car is because on the ovals, you cannot have oversteer.  He did well.  It's something that takes a long time to be confident on an oval.  But he did very well. 
 
BRUNO JUNQUEIRA:  The Formula 3000 car and Champ Car, they are not very different to drive.  The Champ Car has much more power.  That's the biggest difference.  But I think the Newman/Haas team gave him such a great car, it makes things easier.  Then he has always Friday to kind of learn the track.  He doesn't need to pay much attention to the setup because the setup is always very close.  I think what's going to be important for him is to get used to when you start, especially like in June, July, and August, those back-to-back races, you race almost every weekend; that is an issue.  Formula 2000, you have like 12 races a year.  It's kind of not the same race as the Champ Cars.  But he's a good driver and for sure he's learning fast. 
 
SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  When something is new, something is a surprise sometimes, especially about the organization, the general ambience inside the championship, which is really good, I have to say.  Obviously, it's a (inaudible) championship, you can explore a lot of setups.  It's really interesting when you come from the 3000, because that's an area where you're really restricted.  It's always a really big opportunity for a 3000 driver to come to the US, especially when you have the opportunity to start with Newman/Haas.  I just hope it's going to continue like this. 
 

Q.  Sebastien, seeing as how I'm here in Wisconsin, one of the year's first oval races is going to be at the Milwaukee Mile.  If that isn't daunting enough, it's going to be held at night.  What are your thoughts about racing on an oval at night?
 
SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  I can say now that I have an experience on an oval.  I also tested in a night competition during 24 Hours.  I don't know what's going to be the mix between oval and night, but I think is going to be a really nice show.  I just enjoy to be in Milwaukee. 
 

Q.  (Question and answer in French.)
 
SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  He was asking me if I was surprised to be on the pace again.  I told him that after the test, we all knew that it was possible to get some good results, but it's always a bit of a surprise to get two poles like that in a row, especially in Monterrey, because we started pretty far on the pace.  It's been a bit of surprise to get the second one, especially. 
 
BRUNO JUNQUEIRA:  Long Beach is one of the nicest races of the season.  I'm very excited.  A very nice place, a very good street course.  For sure to be PacifiCare headquarters, it's going to be even more special.  Last year I started third.  I like that track.  I hope I can do a good race there.  It's a good racetrack.  You can pass there.  It's going to be an interesting race. 
 
SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  Yeah, I watched the last races on TV.  I think it compares a bit to Monaco.  As I won in Monaco, had the pole, I would enjoy to do it again. 
 
BRUNO JUNQUEIRA:  Thank you. 
 
SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  Thank you. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT