CHAMP CAR WORLD SERIES: GRAND PRIX OF EDMONTON
July 21, 2007
Sebastien Bourdais
Will Power
Justin Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Welcome to our post-qualifying press conference here at the Rexall Grand Prix of Edmonton.  One quick note:  Our two-day attendance total so far is 106,644 fans come through the turnstiles.  Expect another large crowd again tomorrow.    
 We'll go ahead and get started.  Starting third tomorrow is Justin Wilson.  Justin, you were just 7/1000ths off of Will Power's record time.    
 JUSTIN WILSON:  Yeah, the car was feeling good.  Just thank everyone at the #9 CDW car that's worked hard this weekend to make it quick.  So very pleased with how it went.    
 I think, like everyone in the field, was on a quicker lap and I caught Will in the last corner and lost a couple of 10ths.  That lap was going to be quicker, but that's how it goes sometimes.    
 THE MODERATOR:  Thanks, Justin.    
 Starting second tomorrow, based open his run yesterday that guaranteed him a front-row starting spot is Sebastien Bourdais.  Sebastien, today was the first day you guys got a chance to go out there on the red tires.  How were they?    
 SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  Well, I don't particularly think that our car was handling better on the Bridgestone red tires.  Obviously we had done a fairly good lap on the blacks.  I think it was very close to the pole actually.  So I was fairly happy with that.    
 But, you know, it's not a big deal.  I think there's a little balance difference.  But the two sets are pretty close and work well here.  Just a good day for us.  I mean, we had a really good car in the 15 minutes, and it was going really well in the qualifying session.  And just like Justin said, P.T. was just playing a little bit again in the last two laps and - well, pretty much the whole run, but the last two laps when it really mattered.  And he backed up Bruno, and Bruno did me, and that was that.  It was the last corner, so that ruined the last two laps and we had the (indiscernible) going on.    
 A little frustrating obviously because the team did a fantastic job and the car was great.  But, you know, it's going to be a long day tomorrow and we'll see what happens.    
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you, Sebastien.    
 And our polesitter for tomorrow is Will Power.  Will set a track record here at the Rexall Speedway with a time of 58:403.    
 Will, you were really pushing even harder there on your last lap where you took off your front wing.    
 WILL POWER:  Yeah, I think I did a similar thing to what Sebastien did this morning, except he spun and I corrected it, and jumped the curb, took off the front wing, did a bit of damage.  But I did a time good enough earlier on in the run.  So, you know, it was good.    
 We had the speed there all weekend.  I just haven't been putting laps together.  We haven't had a clear run.  That was pretty much my first clear lap.  And, yeah, we did what we needed to do.    
 THE MODERATOR:  And with the point you earned today, you've regained sole possession of second place in the championship standings.  It seems like ever since we've announced this Triple Crown initiative, the Team Australia team has really kicked it into gear.    
 WILL POWER:  Yeah, it's a good deal.  Got to do it in the race tomorrow, though.  But, yeah, I have to say that Canada's been quite friendly to us the last three races.  So looking forward to the race tomorrow.    
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you, Will.    
 Now we'll open it up to questions from the media.    
  
  Q.  A lot of incidents out there, kind of a risk/reward type of deal.  What kind of race of we going to expect tomorrow?    
 SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  I don't know.  Typically there's not too many yellows around here.  But, yeah, we've seen a lot of incidents and people going off.  I've been part of that.  Justin has his fair share of spins, I think.    
 Yeah, it's quite hard.  I mean, it's quite a bit of grip.  But when the car goes, it goes.  It's tough to catch.  You know, it's gonna be a fun race tomorrow I think.    
 JUSTIN WILSON:  Yeah, two times I've caused reds due to people standing on the brakes in front of me.  I thought I hit one.  When P.T. did it this morning, I hit him pretty good.  I don't know what he was expecting me to do.  He said afterwards he was letting me by.  But he was still on the racing line, hard on the brakes through a flat-out corner.  So it was a bit bizarre.    
 WILL POWER:  Yeah, it will be interesting in the race tomorrow.  I think in qualifying and practice, everyone's pushing a lot harder, and that's why they're going off, trying to find a limit.  But in the race, it's a little bit different story, people saving fuel and being a little bit more conservative.    
 In the past, yeah, there haven't been so many yellows.  But going off this season, there has been a lot of mayhem in the races.  We should check the weather forecast for tomorrow (laughter).    
  
  Q.  (Question regarding the tires.)   
 SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  But that's the thing.  You only get two sets and you really want to use them when it matters.  So you balance your car on type of cars, and then you put the options on and you just flip a coin and hope for it to still be good.  Sometimes it is, sometimes it isn't.  It's not a simple game.    
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  Yeah, the car's pretty tough.    
  
  Q.  (Question regarding the points race for the championship.)   
 SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  It's going to be a short season (laughter).  Just start over again is pretty much what it is.    
Going to have, what, seven or eight races' long season.  See who gets the edge on the end of it.  Might be that close at the end.  You'll never know.    
 WILL POWER:  Yeah, it would be nice.  Well, not really actually.  I'd like to be in the lead at the end (laughter).  But it would be nice for the fans to see a last-race showdown.  But, yeah, it basically starts here, the championship.    
 THE MODERATOR:  A quick note for the media.  The last time the points race was this close after seven races was 1999 when the season championship actually ended in a tie between Dario Franchitti and Juan Pablo Montoya.    
 Thank you for your coverage.    
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT