CHAMP CAR WORLD SERIES: GRAN PREMIO
November 12, 2006
Sebastien Bourdais
Will Power
Justin Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 WILL POWER:  Yeah, I mean, we struggled on the red tires in the first stint.  I lost a lot of time to these guys.  When it rained, (indiscernible).  It was quick enough.  I think it was the quickest car out there at the time.  
 At the end, it was quite a relaxing race the last probably 15 laps because there was no one in front of me, there was no one behind me.  That was easy.  But it was just awesome for the team, all the crew and everyone to finish on the high, win the Rookie-of-the-Year and get my first podium the last race.  I'm really happy.  

 WILL POWER:  Yeah, this morning in the warmup, we really struggled in the wet, a lot of understeer.  The guys knew what to do when we went to went tires, (indiscernible) the front wing.  I think that helped a lot.  
 Yeah, I mean, I found the car really easy to drive.  Saw myself catching Bruno quite easily.  I got him.  After that, it was just catch the cars ahead of us.  

 WILL POWER:  Thank you.  
 ERIC MAUK:  Today's runner-up, driver of the #9 CDW Ford-Cosworth/Lola/Bridgestone for RuSPORT, Justin Wilson.  Justin led a race-high 40 laps, finished as the race runner-up for the fifth time this season.  More importantly, he finished second in the season points standings moving ahead of A.J. Allmendinger with today's finish.  Seventh podium finish of the year for Justin.  
 Tell us a little bit about it.  Strong race.  Got away from you at the end.  
 JUSTIN WILSON:  Yeah, it was quite an eventful race, a lot happening.  I managed to get a good start initially.  On the restart, I just was a sitting duck, once you get onto the long straight.  The (indiscernible) has worked so much.  Fortunately, about six or seven laps later, I managed to repay the compliment to Sebastien, get the lead back.  
 The car and the team has done a fantastic job all weekend.  I'm very grateful for their efforts.  You know, just working towards next season now.  We finished third last year, second this year.  We want to continue that trend.  

 JUSTIN WILSON:  Yeah, it was not too bad until I got about halfway through the race.  Every downshift, the shocks and the gearbox was definitely letting me know that I'd damaged my hand.  Each lap and each downshift, it got slightly harder, slightly worse.  
 It mainly meant once it rained, I didn't quite have the finesse I was looking for.  We struggled a little bit in the wet.  
 At the end of the day, we had a great race.  I think we put on a good show.  We'll work to improve next year now.  

 JUSTIN WILSON:  Yeah, I was really struggling a lot.  We opted to put another set of Bridgestone wet tires on.  The track was drying very quickly, so we were sliding around a lot on the last five laps.  I could see Sebastien was catching and catching.  The last three laps was, you know, very tense.  
 Fortunately, I had enough 'push to pass' I could run down the straight every time.  Every time I got on the brakes, the car would take longer to slow down, slide through the corner a bit longer, couldn't get back on the power.  Just trying to control that, guess what the next one was going to be.  
 Unfortunately on the last lap, I went wide into turn four, Sebastien got a run out of turn five, and you saw the rest.  

 JUSTIN WILSON:  Thank you.  


 SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  Well, I guess, you know, it wasn't a matter of leading the most amount of laps; it was a matter of leading the last one.  No, it was just an incredible race, a great battle with Justin the whole time.  We both drove the wheels off these cars.  That was pretty exciting, I think, at the very end when we decided to stay on the same set of tires, Bridgestone wet tires, it made the whole difference.  I was pretty sure the tires were worn out and the track was only damp.  I was pretty sure that was the right call.  Then kept pushing, pushing, pushing, pushing.  I didn't know if Justin had changed the tires or not, but I guess that makes the difference.  Now I understand why.  If it had been only three or four laps to go, new tires would have been a big help.  
 But with that amount of amount of water, just completely deteriorated too quick.  It was just a great opportunity for us.  
 I really want to thank all the McDonald's team.  They've done awesome the last three years, and even before that.  You know, I really wanted this win real bad for them because I think they deserve it.  Two pit crew guys who were throwing up before the race.  That was the least I could do.  I think it's just a great way to finish that era of Champ Car with the last victory.  

 SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  I didn't.  I mean, I didn't even think about it.  I just kept driving the wheels off that car, and it paid off.  I could see after a couple of laps that I was starting to catch him, and he was running into a little bit of traffic, then I had myself to go through the traffic.  You know, I still had quite a bit of 'push to pass'.  I just used it all and caught him.  
 Then after that, it was just kind of a mind battle when, you know, you know the guy is right on your rear wing, you're not quite sure what he's going to do.  
 But I think three laps to go, I really thought I wasn't going to make it.  Two laps to go, I didn't think it was doable any more.  Then the last lap, as Justin said, he made a small mistake and I went for it.  

 SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  What happened, it's a shame you didn't see it, it was kind of spectacular really.  I actually lost the car between 11 and 12, made a 360, stayed on the gas, managed to get it back straight.  At that point I was like, Maybe it's just better to settle for second.  I just kind of was driving the car, but a little less hard.  
 I don't even really know how we managed to get back to Justin's rear wing because at that point, after a 10-second deficit, it seemed like it was just not going to happen.  

 SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  I guess I want to put too good a show for the Mexicans.  


 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  Well, I guess it's the beginning of a great adventure for Claire and I.  We're very much looking forward to it.  I think we're going to have a great winter.  Now, as I said, we have a great challenge laying ahead of us, for Champ Car with the new chassis and also because I'll be able to go back to LeMans for 2007.  I'm not quite sure what's going to happen, with who I'll be driving.  But if the schedule allows it, I'll definitely do it.  
 It's just a very exciting year with a lot of new things to do and things to do again for '07.  A lot of fun and perspective.  

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  Between 11 and 12.  Not the best place.  My usual (laughter).  

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  Two corners later.  

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  It was weird.  
 JUSTIN WILSON:  Yeah, I could see Sebastien was obviously quicker.  He was managing to go quick on the wet tires, catching me up.  He got on the outside.  I could see him still accelerating ahead.  I'm thinking, Okay, it's going to be interesting.  
 But fortunately for me he just started to slide wide and allowed me to continue and take the corner.  He had to back out of it.  
 SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  I really thought he was just letting me by because he kind of stalled the car coming up the chicane.  I thought, maybe he just doesn't want to risk anything because second place in the championship is won now.  Then we started kind of drag racing down the (indiscernible).  I was like, Maybe not.  Then I was right on the white line and I could see it was closing.  I thought, This is not just looking good.  At that point I just had to back off.  For some reason, the outside was no grip at all.  




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT