NBA 2K LEAGUE DRAFT
March 5, 2019
Tyler Lay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Tyler Lay was selected by Bucks Gaming with the No. 6 overall pick in the 2019 NBA 2K League Draft. His gamer tag is Plondo.
Q. What's it like to make the league?
TYLER LAY: Oh, it's crazy.  Been working for it for two years.  Didn't get it last year.  Barely missed it.  Very excited about it this time.
Q. How did that motivate you, and how did you perhaps change what you did in order to make the league this year?
TYLER LAY: Definitely was motivating.  I was a little upset at first, but once the second Combine came around, I just played and changed my whole game style, just tried to focus on being a team player, just doing the little things that they notice in their system to select the players.
Q. You mentioned about being a team player.  What do you think you can bring to the current roster of the guys on your team already?
TYLER LAY: Yeah, I'm definitely just a team player, and just playing center, I don't care about my stats at all.  I just want the team to win.
Q. Who did you get drafted by?
TYLER LAY: The Bucks.
Q. And so what would you say to the Milwaukee fans now that you're going there?  What would you say to them?
TYLER LAY: I'd say just looking forward to a good season.  I think we have a good group already, and the Bucks have one of the strongest draft picks in the draft with three early picks pretty much.  Definitely getting a stronger team for sure.
Q. How did you get into playing 2K?
TYLER LAY: I started really playing back in 2K10, just with my friends.  I got the game for Christmas, and then competitively in 2K17 and started playing in amateur leagues there.  Just something fun to do in my free time, man.  Never thought it would come to this.
Q. How old are you now?
TYLER LAY: I'm 22.
Q. Do you have relationships with a lot of the people already in the league?
TYLER LAY: In the league, yeah, for sure.  Definitely know Pro-Am players in 2K.  I've been playing against them for years, and my teammates, my teammate Nate Kahl was on the Knicks last year, won Finals MVP, now with the Nets, so yeah, I definitely have a good relationship with them.
Q. When did you realize that you were really good at this?  Obviously it's a hobby at some point, but then you realize, I'm good, I can make a career out of this?
TYLER LAY: Before probably the 2K League was even announced, just playing 2K17, that's when I first got into competitive and playing the 250,000 Road to the All-Star tournament, just coming up short there, but the league was announced after that, so I knew if I kept working I would eventually make it.
Q. And what were you doing before you started -- what was your profession before here?
TYLER LAY: Before the first season of the 2K League, I was going to school, Boise State, just working towards an accounting degree.  I stopped going there to focus on this this season.  That's what I was doing before.
Q. What's your gamer tag?
TYLER LAY: Plondo.
Q. Is there any particular player you like to model your game after in the actual NBA?
TYLER LAY: Probably Anthony Davis or DeMarcus Cousins, just big men that can handle the ball, as well, make plays and just trusted with the ball really.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT