US OPEN
August 29, 2020
Coco Gauff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. How would you describe your thoughts on the expressions by athletes about racial injustice since the Jacob Blake tragedy?  What do you personally hope to achieve?
 COCO GAUFF:   I think the biggest thing is that as long as -- especially athletes, in tennis, we are on a global sport, we can reach people across the world.  I think it's important that people use their platform.
 My take on it is just to continue to use sport to build my voice and make it louder so I can reach more people and create change.
 Q. How would you describe the state of your game and what you think the biggest obstacles have been for you to advance at a time when there have been so many obstacles to being able to upgrade your game?
 COCO GAUFF:   I think the biggest thing is just experience and continuing to get as many matches as possible.  This past week I've been practicing really hard to get ready for the Open.  The more matches I get under my belt, the better.
 Q. What is the state of your game right now?
 COCO GAUFF:   I think it's the best it's ever been.
 Q. Without the fans around, a different environment.  Last year you drew some of the largest crowds.  You seem to thrive on that.  How big of a difference is that going to be for you?
 COCO GAUFF:   For me, I mean, I have more matches under my belt with no fans than I do with fans, so...  I think, to be honest, it will just take me back to when I first started on tour, not too many people at my matches.
 I'm still going to compete just as hard regardless if there are fans or not.
 Q. What does Serena's hunt to be the all-time major title winner mean to you?
 COCO GAUFF:   For me, I mean, I consider her the greatest tennis player of all time right now.  I mean, regardless I'll look at her that way whether she gets 24 or not.  I mean, I'm also competing in the same field as her, so I want to win also.
 When I watch her play, I normally am rooting for her.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT