NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 10, 2005
Bruce Bowen
Nazr Mohammed
Glenn Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Bruce, how are you feeling today?  Working the kinks out? 

BRUCE BOWEN:  Feel good.  I mean, this game, it's funny that every game, there will always be something said about the last one.  The biggest, I think, obstacle with these types of games is trying to put that game that you may have done well in behind you, because you don't want to lose respect for the team and things of that nature and come out flat.  So we've been in this situation before in The Finals where we've won Game 1 and lost Game 2.  We understand that and we don't want to do that here because Detroit is a great team.  At the same time, splitting is not good. 

Q.  Rip only had six points in the first quarter and then you held him in the last three quarters.  What did you do and what challenges did he present that you were able to counter? 

BRUCE BOWEN:  Rip is a very good guy without the ball and he is very good with the ball as well, coming off the down screens.  He's with a coach that will maximize all of his potential.  Coach Brown is very good at drawing up plays for guys like him, and I understand that he's going to come out more focused next game and look to take it to another level. 

Q.  Why were you so effective? 

BRUCE BOWEN:  Like said before, I try to make sure I get a hand up on each and every shot.  I don't want Rip to have wide open shots.  He got some wide open shots that I was disappointed about, but that happens sometimes. 

Q.  Do you think he did get shots he wanted to?

BRUCE BOWEN:  Yeah, with their offense, it's for him to come off different down screens and things of that nature.  He's going to get what he wants because he has the screens and things of that nature. 

Q.  As long as he's 7-for-21, do you particularly care why or how? 

BRUCE BOWEN:  No.  I think the odds are better in our favors if he goes 7-for-21.  Now, I know he won't do that again.  He's going to come out and look to have a better offensive game, a more efficient game.

Q.  You guys were able to adjust to a whole different style, more your style but a different style from what you played in the last series, how were you able to do that? 

NAZR MOHAMMED:  Just the type of players we have and the type of coaching staff.  We have guys who like to get up and down.  That's kind of more of a natural reaction to getting up and down than playing basketball.  We have guys who like to just execute and grind it out.

Q.  Give your thoughts on the matchup of the Wallaces who did not come out with their A game last night and that's not going to last. 

NAZR MOHAMMED:  They are great players and we expect them to come out on Sunday and just turn it up another notch.  They are hard to matchup against.  They are both athletic and Rasheed is very, very long.  We just want to come out and match our intensity in the second half of the last game. 

Q.  Were things easier by the way you've been received by the city and the players?

GLENN ROBINSON:  Oh, most definitely.  First, the city, they embraced me well from the minute I stepped off the airplane walking through the airport.  Anybody that put on a Spurs' uniform, they could be the top guy or last guy on the bench and everybody all loves the Spurs around here.  That's been great.  And of course my teammates helped me out a lot.  Being on a team like, this is one of the best teams in the NBA that has been there, and to learn the system, it takes at least a year, so I think I'm doing well. 

Q.  Were people actually at the airport saying "welcome to San Antonio"?

GLENN ROBINSON:  Oh, yeah, all around town it's been a great response.  It's like I'm in college somewhere again.

Q.  What has Pop told you about your role and what he's going to be looking for? 

GLENN ROBINSON:  Well, at this point it's just to be ready.  You know, last game I got a call early in the game.  I think my role is just to be ready because in any given situation I could be called. 

Q.  After not playing in the Western Conference Finals were you surprised he did call you that early? 

GLENN ROBINSON:  Well, I don't know.  We had eight days off.  I just don't know.  I missed half of the series against the Suns, I missed eight days, so I have to get my legs and got my timing back. 

Q.  With the death of your mother, has there been anyone you've leaned on? 

GLENN ROBINSON:  Well, you know, everybody, there has not been one particular person that I've leaned on.  Everybody has helped me out and helped bring me along and that's what's good about this team and this organization, when something like that happens, everybody is offering their deepest sympathy and that's the best that I can ask for.
FastScripts by ASAP Sports


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT