JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 22, 2015
Cheyenne Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CHEYENNE WOODS:   That hole has been playing pretty reachable all week, so I definitely wanted to get my drive down.   Hit it down on the right side a little bit, hit 3‑wood up there, it was about 215 to the hole.   I was about 20 feet past the hole, it was downhill right‑to‑left.   I hit it, I thought I had pulled it a little bit but it stayed on the line and barely crept in.   So it was perfect. 

Q.   Nice round overall and a great tournament.   You seem pleased with how your game is coming along?
CHEYENNE WOODS:   It's great to play well this week, especially with this being a home tournament for me.   Being born and raised here, I have a lot of friends and family to watch.   It's been a fun week and I'm happy with how I've played. 

Q.   A lot has changed in the last year.   Can you put everything into perspective?
CHEYENNE WOODS:   I played last year as a sponsor's exemption, missed the cut.   Now to have my LPGA card and be out here as a full‑time member and play well this year, it's amazing.

Q.   Is this the kind of performance that can give you momentum for the rest of the season?
CHEYENNE WOODS:   I think so.   Kind of helps build that confidence.   It's a different feeling now that I'm out here full‑time playing against these girls.   The girls are amazing; so for me to be able to compete with them shows me a lot about my game.   So I'm excited for next week now. 

Q.   This is likely your best finish on the LPGA Tour, what does that mean to you especially being in your hometown of Phoenix? 
CHEYENNE WOODS:   It's awesome.   Like I said it's exciting to have the support, people I know and don't know, family and friends that came out here.   It couldn't have been a better week‑‑ obviously it would have been better to win.   It was great.

Q.   How many people do you think you had out here this week? 
CHEYENNE WOODS:   About 40, 50, it was great. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT