OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 11, 2014
Cheyenne Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHEYENNE WOODS:   Today went pretty well.   It was a pretty steady round.   First bogey wasn't until my 17 being hole.   I played really well.   Hit the ball well till the end.   I had a few shots here and there but overall I'm very happy.   Made a few more putts‑‑ I guess one more put today.   It's a good day.   
   
 Q.   Obviously getting more used to the course and the conditions here?  
CHEYENNE WOODS:   Yeah, I love the course.   I got to know it a little bit better today after my first practice round.   Yeah, I enjoy playing here and looking forward to the weekend.  
   
 Q.   If you keep the card relatively clean, can you get incrementally closer to the leader?   
CHEYENNE WOODS:   Yeah, definitely.   Just take advantage of the holes that you can, play aggressively when you can.   There's some short holes that you can really attack the pin.   Yeah, I would just say, just minimise the mistakes as much as possible.   
   
 Q.   Are you naturally aggressive when you're playing?   
CHEYENNE WOODS:   I mean, aggressive when I need to be.   Not all the time.   Just smart I guess.  
   
 Q.   Do you think you'll need to?   Shanshan is 11‑under at the minute and she's got a pretty good record around here.   Does that affect your game plan going into tomorrow?  
CHEYENNE WOODS:   No, not really.   No.   She's obviously playing very well and I'm playing the best that I can, so I'll do everything I can to keep up with the pace.   I'm not going to try and play outside of myself or do anything crazy because that's when bad things happen.   
   
 Q.   Can you slip up on a course like this, as well, if you don't pay it sufficient respect?   
CHEYENNE WOODS:   The greens are tricky, so you want to keep yourself in good positions.   The greens are a little quick, and sometimes difficult to read.   So you want to be careful of that.  
   
 Q.   Have you got a photo shoot later?   
CHEYENNE WOODS:   I do, at 1.30.   I'm very excited, it's the Burj Al Arab.   So I'll be hitting golf shots on the helicopter pad.   So I'm very excited for that.   It's the 10th anniversary of Tiger doing it, so I'm excited to get up there and see what it looks like and hit a few shots.  
   
 Q.   Can you remember him doing it?   Can you remember the shots from that?  
CHEYENNE WOODS:   I remember seeing the photos, yeah, and how crazy it was and it went viral.   It's a cool opportunity, so I'm excited to be able to get up there.  
   
 Q.   Will there be any interaction between the two of you?   
CHEYENNE WOODS:   Oh, I don't know.   We'll see.   
   
 Q.   Are you a bit apprehensive going up there in the wind gets up?   
CHEYENNE WOODS:   No, it will be good.   I love stuff like that.   I was telling my caddie, I wish I could like skydive off of it or jump off of it.   But golf shots will be fun.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT