U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 5, 2012
Cheyenne Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Still have that sense of excitement or did the heat and humidity kind of beat that out of you?  
CHEYENNE WOODS:   I mean I'm a little drained after that almost six hour round but again I'm just happy to be here and excited to be part of the U. S. Open for the first time.  
   
 Q.   How did you feel about your round?  
CHEYENNE WOODS:   Yeah.   I didn't start off too good.   I was three over through nine and I went birdie, birdie.   I felt like I held in there pretty good.   Bogeyed my 16th and 17th hole, but I feel pretty good about my round overall.   It's a tough course, and I'm just happy to be here.  
   
 Q.   Do you expect to hear from Tiger or not?  
CHEYENNE WOODS:   Would I?   Yeah.   He's always been supportive of my career and he's excited that I'm taking this next step.  
   
 Q.   You have a fair amount of fan support out there?  
CHEYENNE WOODS:   Yeah.   I think so.   Everyone out here has been really, really supportive, cheering us on, and I give them /PROPZ for coming out here today because it's definitely hot out there.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
CHEYENNE WOODS:   I mean he's an awesome athlete.   Not really.   I hear whispers here and there, Tiger Woods' niece.   But that's it.   No one really says anything to me.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
CHEYENNE WOODS:   I wouldn't say like the hottest, but it's definitely brutal out here.   I'm from Arizona, so I'm used to the 115 degrees, but this is different.   I'm sweating more than I ever have.   
   
 Q.   Besides hydrating, is it mentally challenging?  
CHEYENNE WOODS:   I think mentally understanding that it's going to be a long day, mentally getting through the day and pushing through the fatigue.   I make sure I eat throughout my rounds so both mentally and physically I'm there every shot.  
   
 Q.   You have a lot of experience with majors, so are you feeling okay about where you're at on that track now that you're at a major?  
CHEYENNE WOODS:   Yeah.   I'm excited to be here and I just kind of think of it as another tournament.   I'm out here just playing my own game like I do every other day.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
CHEYENNE WOODS:   Yeah.   I think so.   It's a tough course just in itself and then when you put in the fact that it's the U. S. Open.   You have the grand stands.   You have the weather.   It's completely different than anything in junior golf or even collegiate.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT