U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 3, 2012
Cheyenne Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We are very pleased to welcome for the first time at the United States Women's Open Miss Cheyenne Woods who recently graduated from Wake Forest University.   This is her first time qualifying for the U.S. Women's Open.   Cheyenne, I imagine you know a couple of people who have probably played in U.S. Opens before and maybe even won a couple of them.   
CHEYENNE WOODS:   Right, a few.   One particular in the family.   
THE MODERATOR:   So have you had any advice from him on what to do this week?   
CHEYENNE WOODS:   Not necessarily advice, but support.   That's probably the biggest thing I can get, his support.   Knowing he's excited I'm here and that feels good he's there to support.   
THE MODERATOR:   Has he been in touch with you at all and where and how?   
CHEYENNE WOODS:   When I qualified, he was really excited that I made it here.   My caddie had spoken with him at ‑‑ I forgot what tournament it was in between then and now.   But again, just excited that I'm here and looking forward to how I play.   
THE MODERATOR:   You recently turned professional.   You have a college degree in communications.   Why did you choose to make that leap into professional golf as your career?   
CHEYENNE WOODS:   It's something that I always wanted to do since I was five years old and I started playing golf.   Watching Tiger play as I grew up, I knew I wanted to get out there one day.   When I did graduate from Wake Forest, I knew that was the next step.   It was the next step in my career, and hopefully I'll be here for a while.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions?   
   
 Q.   What are the positives and negatives of having a famous relative?   
CHEYENNE WOODS:   Let's see.   You see, I wouldn't really say that they're negatives, the expectations and the pressure, because I've grown up with that.   And I think that it has helped me get to where I am today and prepare me for this next level, because it is a lot more pressure playing out here for money, playing in front of a crowd.   The camera is on you at all times.   So I think that that has helped me.   
And then the positives would be having his support.   He's the best player in the world and I have him at my fingertips if I need help.   So it's nice to have.  
   
 Q.   Cheyenne, in a way do you feel it's a little unfair because you're bracing for your entire career in which you win for the first time, they're going to say Tiger won when he was this old.   You win ten times, they're going to say you're behind or ahead of his pace.   You're going to be compared your entire career.   How do you feel about that?   
CHEYENNE WOODS:   I mean, it's expected.   I mean, I've always said that I'm going on my own path.   I have my own progression that I've taken.   And just accomplishing my goals and doing what I can do, because Tiger is a very elite athlete.   Not everybody can be Tiger Woods.   So I just do what I can do to be the best that I can.   
THE MODERATOR:   You've never played in the U.S. Women's Open in the past.   Do you feel anything different in the air when you come here?   This is the greatest women's golf championship in the world.   
CHEYENNE WOODS:   It is.   It is.   There's a lot of excitement.   The fans, the volunteers, everything is run so well by the USGA.   So I mean it's really exciting for me to be here finally.   It's my first time, like you said.   So I'm looking forward to the week and the experience of being a part of this.   
THE MODERATOR:   What's your plan of attack on this very difficult golf course?   
CHEYENNE WOODS:   The golf course is awesome.   I got to play it today for the first time.   And the greens are definitely very difficult.   They're pretty big with a lot of undulations and breaks.   I think that will be a big part in trying to manage those.   So I guess I'll focus on putting, trying to keep it on the fairway the best that I can.   
   
 Q.   What is your favorite Tiger moment?   
CHEYENNE WOODS:   My favorite Tiger moment.   I think that chip shot was pretty awesome.   Was at 16 at the Masters.   That was pretty cool.   That's the one that stands out to me the most.   And then this isn't really a Tiger moment, at the ESPYs when Will Farrellaccepted Tiger's Athlete of the Year award.   That's not Tiger, but it was funny.   
   
 Q.   Just wondering if you've been to any of his events that he won at?   
CHEYENNE WOODS:   Actually, I haven't.   I don't think.   I've been‑‑ I went to the Phoenix Open a few times when he would play out there from Phoenix, Arizona.   
The first time I ever actually watched him play was in '92.   I was two years old in the stroller watching him at the L.A. Open.   That was the first time I ever watched‑‑ I don't remember it, but I was there.   
   
 Q.   What are your expectations and goals for this week?   
CHEYENNE WOODS:   For this week to definitely improve from how I played at the LPGA Championship.   That was my LPGA professional career‑‑ I mean debut for my career.   And definitely make the cut.   I was pretty happy with how I played overall at the LPGA Championship starting out.   But there were some things I wanted to improve, and so hopefully here I'm able to do that.   
   
 Q.   Cheyenne, you stayed in college all four years.   We've got so many young girls in the field.   What were your thoughts about staying in college four years?   Did that work for you?   And what were your experiences like?   
CHEYENNE WOODS:   It worked for me.   It was great to have those four years at Wake Forest.   I got my education and I was also able to play four years of collegiate golf.   Traveling every year with my team, playing every week almost.   So I think it helped me learn how to manage my time, create that balance, and also have a life outside of golf with my friends and my teammates and everything like that.   
It's definitely exciting to see some girls that I've played with in college here at the Open this week.   It makes me feel a little comfortable seeing people I'm familiar with.   
THE MODERATOR:   You're sort of new on the scene, so we haven't really become accustomed to seeing what your golf game is like.   What would you say are the strengths of your game?   And also maybe if you have a weakness.   
CHEYENNE WOODS:   My strengths, I would say I'm pretty good with my wedges.   I wok on those a lot.   My ball striking is something I have been working on.   But I would say my wedges, I'm pretty confident with those.   
THE MODERATOR:   How about your putting?   It's always a big factor in the Women's Open.   
CHEYENNE WOODS:   It is.   I've been working on my putting a lot, so hopefully it will come through this week.   
   
 Q.   Just out of curiosity, have you ever had Tiger look at your swing or look for some pointers to help you with your swing?   
CHEYENNE WOODS:   Yeah, he's overlooked my swing a little bit.   But I do have my personal swing coach at home, Mike Labauve.   Tiger kind of lets him do his own thing.   He has watched me for the past almost ten years now.   So he knows my game better than anyone else, I would say.   
THE MODERATOR:   We're really pleased you're here.   We hope you enjoy this.   And that it's the first of many, many Women's Opens for you.   Thanks so much.   
CHEYENNE WOODS:   Thank you.   Thank you very much.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT