OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 8, 2016
Cheyenne Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you assess that round?  
CHEYENNE WOODS: I thought I played really well.  The two nines were a little different with the front nine being, it was 5-under, and the back nine, 1-over.  But I switched, front nine, back nine.   
I played really well.  I struggled a little bit coming in but overall I'm happy with how I played and where my game is at.   
 Q.  Just that double-bogey, really, wasn't it?  
CHEYENNE WOODS: Yeah, that was not very good.  It was ugly.  Despite that, I thought I played a really solid round.  Hit the ball well and gave myself a lot of chances for birdies and my putter felt great, so I'm really happy with today.   
 Q.  The putts on these greens, some people are reading them and some people aren't.  Do you feel like you've got a good grip on them?  
CHEYENNE WOODS: I do. I have a really good vision when I'm out there.  I can really see the breaks and feel them.  I struggled a little bit with speed towards the end of the round but overall I loved the greens out here and they are in great shape and I'm really rolling the ball well.   
 Q.  How did you do the double bogey?  
CHEYENNE WOODS: It was No. 8, my 17th.  I pushed my driver right into the sand, the waste area.  I hit 5-iron, which just barely caught the palm tree, knocked it down.  Stayed in the sand.  Caught it heavy coming out.  Chipped it up and 2-putted.   
 Q.  But overall, you're right in the hunt for this championship.  
CHEYENNE WOODS: Yeah, so I feel like I'm in a great position and I think I can do even better tomorrow, so I'm looking forward to it.   
 Q.  How different are you feeling now, having four competitive rounds under your belt?  How is that different this year?  
CHEYENNE WOODS: I would say I'm maybe more comfortable with the golf course.  I love being out here and so I'm comfortable despite, irregardless of how many rounds I play.  So I really enjoy playing this golf course.  Having a little bit of history out here two years ago I played, it's kind of nice to have some, I don't know, some memories of where the flags were, how the greens roll or which way to play the holes.   
 Q.  Does this shift your focus for the remaining rounds?  Do you now change your targets?  
CHEYENNE WOODS: Not necessarily.  I think I'll assess my round today.  I kind of know where I can improve.  So I'm going to try and improve in those certain areas tomorrow.  I left a few shots out there and I think I'll be able to maybe make them up.   
 Q.  Did it obviously change from yesterday to today?  Where were you when you came off the course yesterday?  
CHEYENNE WOODS: So yesterday, I played six holes.  I started the round great.  I was 4-under through six.  So it was unfortunate, everything that had happened yesterday.  To come back out and start the round, I think I started par, par, birdie, birdie.   
So I picked up where I left off yesterday, so it was a great feeling to know that I still had the game.   
 Q.  What did you do yesterday afternoon afterwards then?  As you said, you were going so well and then something like that happens.  Do you take yourself away from golf completely or go and practice?  
CHEYENNE WOODS: No, I didn't practice at all.  I think everybody was in a little bit of shock.  It's really hard to even go do anything after something tragic like that happens.  I really just went back to the room and rested and went to the gym for a little bit and had a nice dinner with my caddie, but really nothing more than that.  It's hard to really get out and do much.  It puts a lot of perspective, so I'm just thankful to be able to be here today and to be able to play golf.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT