CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
July 2, 2016
Cheyenne Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Cheyenne, coming into this week obviously a lot on the line for the British Open.
CHEYENNE WOODS: Yeah.
Q. How much was that on your mind throughout the week and even this round?
CHEYENNE WOODS: It was on my mind a little bit leading into the week, and then especially yesterday and today seeing where I was kind of placing against the other girls.  I wanted to make sure I had some solid rounds.
It was definitely a goal of mine to go there for two weeks, because I already have my flight book and I don't want to change it.  (Laughter.)  And it's also my birthday that week.  I think that that would be awesome to be able to be over there for two weeks straight and hopefully play good golf on my birthday.
Q. Did you have a number in mind today?
CHEYENNE WOODS: No.  I had no idea what it would take.  I knew that I've made a few mistakes in the last two days that I could easily eliminate.  The only bogeys I've had this week were three-putts, and I've missed two tap-ins that are, like, stupid.
So I knew I've been playing great golf.  If I can eliminate those mistakes I can climb my way up the leaderboard.
Q. In the mix heading into Sunday.  Plans for tonight?  Approach tomorrow?
CHEYENNE WOODS: Dinner with some friends.  Just kind of relax and do it all again tomorrow.
Q. Physically you had a minor accident this week, didn't you?
CHEYENNE WOODS: Yeah.
Q. Are you feeling okay?  Do you have whiplash?
CHEYENNE WOODS: I feel better today.  We had whiplash yesterday, and then round one was pretty bad just with a stiff neck and headaches all day.
Today I'm back to normal.  We've had great physio here, so they're really helped us out every day.  Jay and I, I think, are finally feeling back to normal.  It was scary though, but we're good.
Q. Where was it?
CHEYENNE WOODS: On the highway.  We were driving back from Nike and the lady just didn't see that traffic had slowed and she just rammed us.  Her car was totalled and ours was like okay, but it was scary.  It was out of nowhere.  I've never been in a car accident like that before.
Q. Yeah.  Were you driving?
CHEYENNE WOODS: I was driving.  Yeah, Jay was in the back.
Q. What kind of rental was it?
CHEYENNE WOODS: I had a Buick Lacrosse.  With as hard as she hit us I thought we would have more damage.  We definitely felt the hit, but the car was thankfully safe.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT