JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 16, 2016
Suzann Pettersen
Cheyenne Woods
Michael Floyd
Carson Palmer
Patrick Peterson
Larry Fitzgerald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Well, good afternoon, everybody.  Welcome to the JTBC Founders Cup, and this is always a special day for us on Wednesday.  It's pro am day.  My name is Kraig Kann.  I'm the chief communications officer at the LPGA.  But we've got very important guests up here who have made this once again one of the highlights of the week.  I've got Suzann Pettersen here from the LPGA, Cheyenne Woods from the LPGA and they are surrounded by, I'm just going to say, superstar athletes, Michael Floyd, wide receiver from the Arizona Cardinals, Larry Fitzgerald, Patrick Peterson and Carson Palmer.  I want to thank all you guys for being here today.  It's really been a pleasure to have you.
Let's start with some questions, and I want to start with you, Cheyenne, because you were early out this morning, and you found out you got to play with these guys.  What was that experience like for you?  What is it like to play with other athletes from other sports.
CHEYENNE WOODS: It's fun.  It's always fun to play with other professional athletes.  They're competitive.  They want to do well, and it's also cool to get their perspective on our sport.
I thought it was fun playing with Larry and Carson and seeing how far they hit it.  It's definitely a different game that they play, but it was fun to be by their side and be on their team.
THE MODERATOR: Larry, let me ask you, you played in this before.  You played last year.  Patrick, we'll have you pass the baton over there.  You've done this quite a number of times.  In fact, you played on the PGA TOUR a couple of weeks ago at the AT&T.  So what are these events like for you playing as an NFL guy in the game of golf that I know you love.
LARRY FITZGERALD: I'm like a kid in the candy store.  I watch them all the time on TV.  I'm at home, and my son will ask me, dad, is this all you ever watch on TV.  But I really enjoy it.  It's something that you work very hard to do, but you'll never be able to achieve the lofty goals that these young ladies have performed to.  But it's great to be able to see them and the work they put in and just their due diligence in terms of the way they see the course and manage the course.  It's so fascinating, and I'm so privileged to be a part of it.
THE MODERATOR: Would you consider yourself a golfoholic?  Rumor has it you belong to like 13 clubs in this area.
LARRY FITZGERALD: That's not true.  But I definitely am.  No, I really do love the game.  It's a lifetime game, something that all of us can play, you know, as we get older and compete and not have to get tackled doing it either, so that always makes it good.
THE MODERATOR: This guy is one of the guys that tackles.  Patrick, let me get your perspective.  You've played before.  You've taken part in our media day as well, and we're very thankful at the LPGA to kind of partner with the NFL, but what's your take on playing with some of these superstar LPGA players?
PATRICK PETERSON: It's definitely a privilege to play with these young ladies.  The thing I love the most about playing with the LPGA is how fluent and how sound their swing is, versus the guys.  You know, we try to swing out of our shoes and the ladies just get up there and swing so breezy and easy and it still goes a mile.  That's the fascinating thing to me is how much more calm the ladies are versus the guys.
THE MODERATOR: You played with Suzann Pettersen.  You also played with Sei Young Kim, and after she hit one of her shots, you went up there afterwards and stuck it inside of hers and said, take that, No. 7 in the world.
PATRICK PETERSON: I did.
THE MODERATOR: Yes, you did.  Very loud.  So that's fun for you.  You're a competitor.  You're out there doing that.
PATRICK PETERSON: Just like Cheyenne said, you know, it's a different feel for us, but at the same time, our competitive nature always takes over once we have an opportunity to compete against other athletes.  So that's what it's all about, and it definitely was -- it was fun and a pleasure to be against -- going against the No. 7 player in the world today.
THE MODERATOR: Let me ask you, Suzann, speaking of competitive, I think you'd qualify as one of the most competitive on our tour, but you play in a lot of these as well, and knowing you like I do, I think it's gotta be a lot of fun for you to kind of spend a couple of hours with star athletes from other sports.  What do you like to take from that experience?  What do you guys talk about.
SUZANN PETTERSEN: No, first of all, I think it's been fantastic with the LPGA to be able to team up with athletes like these guys.  Being a European, I'm getting more and more into the American sports, and I actually knew of these guys before I got to the tee.  So that's a step in the right direction.
But to be able to spend time with other athletes, dig into their brain, talk to them about general stuff, also about how -- well, how they do their training, how they prepare, how they think, I think it's quite valuable.  There's a lot of equal lines across the different sports we're all putting all our time and effort into.  So it's kind of nice to kind of play ball and maybe you can catch some of the things they do that maybe you can implement into your routines or the other way around, but a lot of fun to be out here, and thanks, guys, for coming out and supporting the LPGA.
THE MODERATOR: Carson, let me get some thoughts from you.  You were injured last year and unfortunately weren't able to compete.  We were certainly going to have you out there.  It was funny to watch you all standing on the green watching these guys finish, Patrick and Michael.  I mean there's a lot of fun between all you Arizona Cardinals playing this game.
CARSON PALMER: Yeah.  I love seeing Pat almost put one in the stands and then Mike put one in the bunker.  (Laughs).  And everybody else in that group finished on the green.  So we're all extremely competitive, whether it be Patrick going against Larry and Mike in practice, us on the golf course, ping pong, whatever it may be, and just the opportunity.  You know, I can't say thank you enough for this opportunity to come out and play with the best players in the world on the track they're playing, seeing how they kind of work their mind around the golf course and why they're hitting 3-wood and not driver and why they're hitting -- we saw a fairway wood from about 20 feet earlier today when we're hitting 60-degree lob wedges.  And kind of picking their brains, just getting more and more knowledge and gaining more and more knowledge as we're sitting around watching these ladies play.
THE MODERATOR: How relaxing is this for you in the off season?  You said you appreciate opportunities like this.  I'm sure you don't lack for these opportunities, but what does a day like this do for the mindset calming down after a long season?
CARSON PALMER: Well, it's just a chance to work on our second career, I guess.  All of us wish we could play professional golf.  There's no chance that any of the gentlemen up here can play professional golf.
THE MODERATOR: Patrick Peterson said he's going to play on the Champions Tour.
CARSON PALMER: No.  We'll put a little bet on that later, but you know, the off-season is great.  The off-season is an opportunity to get away from football because once football gets here, it's football nonstop.
THE MODERATOR: Let's pass the baton down to Michael.  I want to know what the feeling was for you in real life standing on the first tee this morning.
MICHAEL FLOYD: Okay.  Well, my legs were shaking, to start off.  It was kind of nerve wracking.  I know Fitz played in the pro am.  There were a lot more people on the 16.  And I think it will be a couple more years for me to go on that, because it was just nerve wracking as a whole, and there was only maybe like 12 people there.  But I did hit a good ball.
THE MODERATOR: You hit more than a few good balls.  You said today that you've taken one super, super hard hit in your five-year NFL career from Lance Briggs.  Sorry if I wasn't supposed to throw that name out there.  What's tougher, the kind of pressure that you felt like you were dealing with today with maybe people standing there watching you on the last hole or the first hole or what you deal with on a game day in the NFL.
MICHAEL FLOYD: Well, the first shot I took today and Suzann talking trash to me the whole time.  I had about a good four or five shots that were very terrible, and she gave it all to me.  I loved it.  But you know, it was a great time.
THE MODERATOR: Larry, back to you, and we'll take some questions.  If you got one, please raise your hand.  You were standing there at the 18th as well, and Patrick says you guys play a ton of golf together.  Now, he's saying that your handicap is way over what you really say it might be.  He's talking trash to you.  Is that fair?  I mean are you guys competitive with each other?
LARRY FITZGERALD: We're very competitive.  Pat has one of those handicaps that are a little inflated.  You know, he's like a 6 that's really a 12, and I'm like a 12 that's really a 16.  We inflate the opposite ways.  But we really enjoy playing with each other.  I mean it's something that we really get after.  We can push each other and talk to each other and try to get in each other's head.  It's great competing with your teammates, but Pat's game is slipping.  After he had his daughter here in the fall, his game is really falling apart and I'm happy to see it.  (Laughs).
THE MODERATOR: I'm going to give you -- this is like a debate, the GOP.  I'm going to give you a chance.  He called you out.  Is that accurate?  Your game is slipping?
PATRICK PETERSON: We have a thousand golf courses around here in Arizona.  Only one of them have my name on it.  We can definitely go there.
LARRY FITZGERALD: Your wife don't let you play anymore, though.
PATRICK PETERSON: She don't, but when I do get that opportunity, we can definitely go out there and make that happen.  And I'm not giving you 10 strokes anymore.
THE MODERATOR: Last question from me and then we'll take some.  So please raise your hand.  Okay.  We got one right there.  Patrick, best thing that you have taken from your experience with the LPGA players.
PATRICK PETERSON: Best experience.
THE MODERATOR: What have you learned the most from seeing them up close and your respect for the LPGA?
PATRICK PETERSON: I'd probably have to say -- well, we didn't have much time to do it today, but the last time I came here, just how close of attention they pay attention to the greens.  Obviously that's where you score.  You know, I saw Suzann just walking around the greens, seeing where the old cups were.  You know, she was putting 12 feet out, possibly where the cup is going to be tomorrow.  So you can just tell the time that these young ladies take around the greens and the study that they put in, because obviously that's where you need to put the ball in the hole.  So they spend a lot of time on the green.  You can see the yardage book.  They have the different slopes in the green and all that stuff.  There's a ton of numbers on there.  So it's definitely mind boggling for me, something I definitely couldn't probably get ahold of the first go around, but just to see the attention to the details they put into the green reads.
THE MODERATOR: You're going to have to figure that out if you're going to play the Champions Tour.  Question right here.
Q. First of all, thanks for taking the time to speak with us.  I grew up in Pittsburgh, so Mr. Fitzgerald, enjoyed watching you play.  It was great.  Patrick, I'm a huge LSU fan.  So thanks for everything.  And Carson, my cousin's a huge USC fan.  So thank you.
MICHAEL FLOYD: Notre Dame?
Q. No, not -- sorry.  Suzann, the last time we spoke was at the Women's U. S. Open in Lancaster and you had made, I believe, an equipment change and swing change.  How has that worked out for you?  And my second question is, Cheyenne, what's the week been like for you pressure wise, obligation wise, and do you feel like you're ready to compete this week?
THE MODERATOR: Suzann, you first.
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Equipment change, I can't remember that.  I'm getting too old.  But I've done some swing changes over the last year.  I started working with Butch Harmon towards the end of 2014 season.  That's really starting to settle down now and kind of -- I can feel comfortable on the tee.  I've kind of gone through different phases of when you do change.
One thing is not necessarily that you can do it on the range, but you gotta get comfortable on the course, and I started actually hitting golf shots that I wasn't able to before, so you kind of changed the way I look at certain holes.  I was trying to hit it a lot further than I necessarily had in the past just because it felt good.  And now I'm just coming back to my old roots trying to kind of stick to what's gotten me to the top of women's golf, among the top players.  And I'm starting to feel good again.
But it's kind of gone in circles.  So it's just funny how it all works.  But if you're patient and work hard, it will pay off eventually.
THE MODERATOR: Cheyenne, pressure of being the hometown obligation girl this week?
CHEYENNE WOODS: Not too much pressure, but it's always nice to play well at home.  Growing up in Phoenix, it's nice to be able to have a tournament in my backyard and have my family and friends out here.  Obligations, I've definitely had a busy week with media and just helping to promote the event and do what I can.  I think it's definitely special to have a tournament here where I grew up.  So I want to do all that I can to help it, and hopefully tomorrow I'll be able to play well.
Q. Carson, Patrick, two-parter.  The news came down about 40 minutes ago that Evan Mathis signed a one-year deal with the Cardinals.  Can you share your thoughts?  And Patrick, your thoughts on Chandler Jones becoming a Cardinal?
CARSON PALMER: Yeah, I mean being the quarterback, you always love offense linemen coming in.  But I have known Evan for a long time.  I've played with him for a while.  Very passionate player, very explosive and strong.  Probably one of the smarter players I've ever been around.  So it's a huge addition for us, especially with losing Coop.  So it's a tremendous signing for us.
PATRICK PETERSON: And to kind of add on to that, being a defensive back, I love guys who can get pressure on the quarterback, and Chandler Jones is definitely one of the best.  He was leading the league last year halfway through the season in sacks, high-energy guy.  You can tell that he has a lot of passion for the game.  He's a complete monster, I mean the guy has power.  He plays to his length.  Fast.  I mean he's an all-around athlete, and he's definitely someone that I think can help take this defense to the next level.
THE MODERATOR: Larry, I'm going to let you weigh in as well.  Do you guys a favor and get all these guys to comment on the stuff you probably need.
LARRY FITZGERALD: We're excited.  Anytime you add new components to your team that can help you win ball games, I think that's something that you look forward to.  We were close last year, and I know Steve Keim and Coach Arians are going to continue to address the needs in free agency, and I know they do a great job on the draft.
THE MODERATOR: Other questions?  Last thing for each of you guys.  Let's start down on the end with Mr. Floyd.  What would be a bigger thrill for you, cover of Golf Digest or five consecutive pro bowl appearances?
MICHAEL FLOYD: Pro bowls for sure.  But that magazine on the front cover does look really nice.
THE MODERATOR: Larry, how about you?  I know you've been to five pro bowls.  Let's go Super Bowl title, and I think I know the answer to this question.  But what does it mean to be -- you are kind of really becoming associated with this game a little bit of golf.  I mean I know you love it.  You're getting all these opportunities to play in it.
LARRY FITZGERALD: It's a lot of fun.  Being such a big fan of both tours, being able to be inside the ropes and being able to get to meet some of the fabulous athletes, you know, it's a dream come true for me.  Getting to meet Cheyenne and Suzann, and just getting to know them.  And you see them on TV, but then you see just how down to earth and humble they are and approachable.  It just makes you even a bigger fan of them and the game that they represent it in such a great light, and I'm just really honestly, it's an honor to be a part of it.
THE MODERATOR: Patrick, how soon are you going to get back out and play?  Are you going to play again tomorrow?
PATRICK PETERSON: Tomorrow.  Tomorrow is Thursday?  No.  I'm playing again Friday.
THE MODERATOR: And you have something coming up this weekend.  Do you want to talk about that?
PATRICK PETERSON: Oh, yeah.  I got my celebrity golf tournament is coming up this week.  Actually, I just told Mike about it, so hopefully Mike can show up.  Larry, Carson, Ozzie Smith, got a good host of celebrities there.  Saturday is a cocktail at Penske Museum, 6 p.m. through 10 p.m.  Then the shotgun starts at Camelback Golf Club at 8:30 -- no, 9:00 is shotgun.
Q. Question for all four of you guys, if you don't mind.  A lot of the critics said the one thing holding you guys back from competing for a Super Bowl this year or even winning one was the lack of pass rush.  With the deal going down yesterday, where are you at in the Super Bowl conversation?  Are you Super Bowl favorites now with just one move?
LARRY FITZGERALD: Man, we're trying to play some golf up here.
PATRICK PETERSON: Today is March 16th.  Way, way too early to talk about Super Bowl contingents.  We were very close last year, quote, unquote, without a pass rusher, so we'll see what happens.
THE MODERATOR: Okay.  Any other questions?
Q. Could we get the rest of their opinions?
THE MODERATOR: Go ahead, Carson.
CARSON PALMER: Yeah, I think we'd all second what Pat said.  It's March.  Until you get down the stretch in late December, you start talking about those kind of things and start kind of forecasting where you fit in in the playoff.  But right now, I mean there's so much that needs to be done; the draft.  There's probably 70 or 80 guys on the roster right now that needs to go down to 53.  So a ton of work to do, and I know we're not thinking about anything other than getting ready for the first OTA and then mini camp and training camp and then the season.  So just way too early to be talking about those things right now for us.
Q. Just get maybe Larry's take on that really quick.
LARRY FITZGERALD: It's March 16th, and the only thing I'm worried about right now is taking Carson behind the shed here in about an hour and getting in his pockets.  But no, we'll take care of the football season when it gets here.
THE MODERATOR: All right.  We're going to do a little photo op here.  I want to thank you all for taking part in the pro am and making it so special.  Thanks to you all for being here today and enjoy the tournament this week.  Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT