NBA DRAFT
June 24, 2010
Luke Babbitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  No. 16 Selection, Minnesota Timberwolves

 Q. Your thoughts? 
 LUKE BABBITT: Well, I'm obviously very excited, dream come true, and just glad it's over with. 

 Q. Luke, congratulations. Ramon Sessions is on Minnesota, so did you speak with him at all, even while you were at Nevada, get some advice on the next level and how much you look forward to playing with him? 
 LUKE BABBITT: Yeah, we didn't -- I didn't think there was a great chance that we would play together. You know, there's always a chance. We talked a little bit. You know, he's just an unbelievable person. Obviously a great basketball player from Nevada, but you know, I'm thrilled to be his teammate, because we never were teammates in Nevada, even though we never went there.

 Q. The program over the last five years has really excelled, and you were a part of that; talk about how now, you are looking to put that experience of helping the program grow into going into a situation with the Minnesota Timberwolves? 
 LUKE BABBITT: I think at Nevada, we are a smaller school, and you know, had to overcome being in a mid-major. That was a challenge. 
 You know, Minnesota is working their way up. There are a lot of young pieces, a lot of young talent, a GM who is very active and will make moves. So I think, you know, the sky is the limit for the Minnesota Timberwolves. 

 Q. Who are some of the guys you are looking most forward to going up against in the NBA?
 LUKE BABBITT: No one in particular. You know, I'm just looking forward to being a pro and being in the NBA. That's always been my dream. Obviously LeBron James, Pierce, Durant, those are some of my favorites players, but when I step on the court, I probably won't recognize them and it will be just another basketball game.

 Q. Have you spoken to Wes Johnson since getting picked? 
 LUKE BABBITT: No, I haven't. We talked a little bit obviously before the Draft, but I don't think coming into it in the Green Room, anybody anticipated things and nobody could foresee anything like this happening.

 Q. Any idea how they will use you and him?
 LUKE BABBITT: I don't know. I wasn't really expecting it, but I'm very happy. 

 Q. Are you looking forward to playing in a triangle offense and how familiar are you with it? 
 LUKE BABBITT: Actually my freshman year, we ran a triangle offense with Coach Fox who learned the offense from Tex Winter who was with the Lakers and Kurt Rambis is obviously bringing it to Minnesota. 
 As well as any college player could, I probably have a pretty good understanding of the triangle, but obviously, a lot to learn.

 Q. Reno gets a little chilly in the winter, but do you have a nice, big winter coat ready for Minneapolis? 
 LUKE BABBITT: No, I don't. I'll be buying one. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT