NBA DRAFT
June 24, 2010
Luke Babbitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







No. 16 Selection, Minnesota Timberwolves
  Traded to Portland Trail Blazers

 Q. How does it feel thinking you're going to Minnesota and then being traded? Were you expecting it at all? Was there any hint that that might happen tonight? 
 LUKE BABBITT: Yeah, actually, I knew that was a possibility. You hear about it all the time, guys getting traded on draft night, and you know, I was just expecting anything to happen. Nothing would surprise me tonight, and so this worked out great for me. 

 Q. So did you feel, was there any feeling like Minnesota didn't want you, or was it like you didn't try to plan anything in your head? 
 LUKE BABBITT: I was just happy to be picked at 16. That's what you work hard to do is to be drafted as high as possible. I couldn't be happier with being in Portland. They already have a playoff team. They have Brandon Roy, Aldridge and you know, I just wanted to come in and help in any way I can.
 They are unbelievable already. 

 Q. So how do you think you'll fit in with all of those young players? 
 LUKE BABBITT: I think I'll fit in well. You know, I'm going to come in and bring toughness. And I hate losing, and that's the main thing that I can bring, you know, and I think the coaches and my teammates will respect that is because I just want to win. 
 That's the way everything revolves around with me. 

 Q. You got the trade out of the way; as you look at the business side of basketball, even though it's your first initiation to the League, do you get a sense of -- what does being traded mean to you right now? 
 LUKE BABBITT: I don't even know if I can comprehend it. This has been a crazy night. I don't know if I can fully comprehend what a trade -- it's just unbelievable to be picked. That's just what my focus was tonight. 
 Being traded is crazy. You wouldn't expect that but I'm just happy I'm in Portland, that's the main thing.

 Q. Your former team -- did you have thoughts of playing your former team and did you think about the possibility of being traded outside of what you heard? 
 LUKE BABBITT: I'm sorry? 

 Q. Did you think about being traded outside of what you heard about the rumors? 
 LUKE BABBITT: You know, I didn't hear too many rumors. I just -- you know, I just heard that, you know, Portland was interested in me and they might trade, and you know, I was trying not to think too much. That's what gets everyone stressed out in the draft process and thinking about all the possibilities and what can happen. I was just trying not to think and just trying to enjoy the moment.

 Q. Do you have any short-term or long-term goals in the league?
 LUKE BABBITT: Short-term is I want to help Portland win the Championship this year, that's my goal. They have the talent and they have the draft picks and the talent to do it, so let's do it this year.

 Q. You're going from a situation where in college, you were obviously the main option on offense and now you're going to a team that has almost a dozen guys that can score the basketball. How do you change your mentality, and how do you fit into a system with so many mouths to feed? 
 LUKE BABBITT: You know, like I said, I'm just coming in wanting to win and do whatever it takes to win. Obviously my role is going to change. Everybody's role changes from college to the pros. I know I have a job to do and I'm going to do that job and the most important thing is I'm going to be a tough player and a guy that just wants to win and go out there and compete and fight, and obviously I'll probably shoot some 3s.

 Q. Who told you that you were being traded? 
 LUKE BABBITT: I heard my agent told me it was probably going to happen and I found out for sure a couple of minutes ago.

 Q. So how close to them announcing it on the podium did you find out? 
 LUKE BABBITT: Well, my agent told me like that's what he thinks is going to happen, because he was talking to someone, and then I walked up there thinking I was probably not going to Minnesota. So I walked up on stage thinking I probably wasn't going to be in Minnesota, but I didn't know for sure, obviously. I had to act like I was going to Minnesota when I was up here the first time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT