NL DIVISION SERIES: CUBS VS NATIONALS
October 11, 2017
Dusty Baker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Nationals - 5, Cubs - 0
Q. Dusty, did anything at all surprise you of Strasburg's performance, considering everything that's happened in the last 24 hours?
DUSTY BAKER: Well, no, not really.  Because I could see the focus and determination in his eyes, you know what I mean, when he came in the office and we talked to him.  You know, he's a man of few words, but the words he said, you know, gave us every indication that he was ready.
Q. How was he feeling out there?
DUSTY BAKER: Well, we didn't ask him.  Sometimes it's better not to ask and just look at his performance and look how he was dealing.
He had everything working tonight.  He had a great changeup.  His fastball is always good, good slider; and like I said, he looked very, very determined.  The only time I asked him anything was at the end of the seventh because he had 105 pitches.
You know, I knew he was running out of gas because he's been -- you know, he's been sick.  But fortunately for us, it was a cool night, you know, for him.  You know, all he said -- I said, "Hey, man, I'm going to come get you."
He said, "Well, that's why we traded for those guys, Madison and Doolitle."
And that's what their -- and Kintzler, and we didn't have to use Kintzler tonight, but Madson was in a torrential downpour and looked like he couldn't feel the ball, and we were wondering if all the balls in Laz's pocket were wet, because his pocket got wet.
But that was a great game.  You know, Michael A. came through with a big -- I didn't think any right-handed hitter could hit that ball out of the ballpark like he did tonight.
Q. With the conditions that you were just referencing, the wind coming in, the rain, when you see the ball come off Michael's bat, you think, what?
DUSTY BAKER: Well, I really didn't know because when that ball went off of -- well, fortunately for us, the elements are on our side because Russell's ball would have been way up in the stands and maybe even on the Avenue.  That ball was blowing back in because that ball was hit a ton.  That was the best ball hit tonight.
So you know, the elements are on our side tonight.  You know, I've played many games here, managed many games here, and everybody talks about, you know, how the ball flies here.  But I think the time that I was here, I think the stadium takes away more homers than it gives.  And tonight, it gave us one.
Q. Who is starting for you tomorrow?
DUSTY BAKER: We're not sure yet.  So we're trying to -- we're going to make up our mind, see the condition of everybody and like I said, I'm not sure.  I'm not trying to be coy at all because that was the theme of the day, you know, with Stras.
You know, whoever it is, I hope they pitch like Stras did today.
Q. Tanner or Gio?
DUSTY BAKER: Yeah.  I would venture to say, yeah, Tanner or Gio, or both.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT