NL DIVISION SERIES: CUBS VS NATIONALS
October 10, 2017
Dusty Baker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DUSTY BAKER: Everybody still dry in here?   
 Q.  Who will be starting for you tomorrow?  
DUSTY BAKER: We're going to go as planned with Tanner.   
 Q.  Was Strasburg a consideration and why did you decide to stick with Tanner?  
DUSTY BAKER: Well, we decided to stay with Tanner because, number one, you know, he was slated.  Didn't work out for Stras for his bullpen day, and we're all creatures of habit, and plus, we've got full confidence in Tanner.  And Stras, it would have been better, because he's feeling under the weather, like a lot of my team is.   
So this day actually comes as a plus for our team.   
 Q.  Is Stephen still scheduled to pitch Thursday?  
DUSTY BAKER: Yes.   
 Q.  Is any possibility he could come out of the bullpen tomorrow if needed?  
DUSTY BAKER: I don't know, man.  I ain't even thinking about that to tell you the truth.  I'm thinking Tanner's going to do his thing.   
 Q.  Did you say it was Stras that is under the weather?  
DUSTY BAKER: Yes, and a lot of my team is under the weather with the change of weather and the air conditioning in the hotel and the air conditioning here.  It's just this time of the year for mold around Chicago -- I think it's mold.  I mean, I have it, too.   
 Q.  If everybody had been tip-top, would you have considered Stras tomorrow and Gio on regular rest in five?  
DUSTY BAKER: I don't know.  We didn't think about that.   
 Q.  You okay with the decision, and the long wait and everything?  
DUSTY BAKER: Yeah.  I mean, I'm glad they decided when they did versus keeping us here till nine o'clock or something.  It's a little inconvenient for us, you know, because we just don't go back home.  We have to change hotels now because all our rooms are given away and sold out because they had not planned on us being there.  The hotels are in business, so we'll stay in another hotel tonight.   
 Q.  You mentioned the bullpens didn't line up for Strasburg.  Did he throw one today thinking he was going Thursday?  
DUSTY BAKER: Yes.   
 Q.  Just to clarify, you said it didn't work out for him.  Did he try to go out there?  
DUSTY BAKER: Who?   
 Q.  Strasburg.  
DUSTY BAKER: He had a bullpen today, which wouldn't have allowed him to -- because we had planned on playing his bullpen early.  So, you know, it's fine.  We have full confidence in Tanner.   
 Q.  Is it all hands on deck tomorrow, regardless of who you think is ready for Game 5?  
DUSTY BAKER: Yeah, it is, but I mean, like I said, we have full confidence in Tanner.   
That's it?  Oh, my God, thank you, guys (laughter).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT