NL DIVISION SERIES: CUBS v BRAVES
October 4, 2003
Dusty Baker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Dusty, you had opportunities again today and you just didn't come through?
 
DUSTY BAKER: We had some opportunities and they were  -- most of the time when we lose, we hit double-plays, and like I said we had some opportunities to come back.  That big two-run homer that Chipper gave in the 8th, and we though we lost Farnsworth, and we thought we had lost Eric Karros too.  It was a tough day at the ballpark today, but when the series started, I mean, you know you're playing a quality team that's been there before, but deep down in my heart, I didn't want to admit it, but I thought it was going to go five games.  We've got to go to Atlanta  -- can anyone tell me what time the game is tomorrow?  7:30, good.  
 
Q.  In the fifth, after Chipper hit the homer, were you thinking of taking Matt out at that point?
 
DUSTY BAKER: Yeah, but there was two outs.  We were trying to get another inning out of him.  We thought about it.  That wasn't quite the time. 
 
 
Q.  The play that you almost lost Karros on, have you gotten a good look on at him yet?
 
DUSTY BAKER: No.  Some of the guys on the team did.  They're upset about it.  They said it wasn't a very good play.  The guys said it  -- whenever a first baseman gets hurt like that, it's a very vulnerable situation.  It wasn't a very clean play right there.  That was poor judgment.  
 
Q.  Dusty, do you have an update on Farnsworth, and do you know if he's going to be available for me tomorrow?
 
DUSTY BAKER: He lost the feeling in his leg.  He jammed his knee on the ground when he went to field that bunt.  No, we don't have a complete update yet.  I just hope he's okay and available tomorrow.  
 
Q.  Prior wasn't available, but would he be available tomorrow?
 
DUSTY BAKER: I don't know.  Zambrano would probably be more available than Prior.  He threw a lot of pitches.  I would say no.  We've got full faith in Woody on his complete rest, and probably not. 
 
Q.  Dusty, this team time and time again this year has come back from tough losses and adversity.  What gives you hope and belief it will do so again?
 
DUSTY BAKER: Once you do it, you've got the power and belief to do it again.  If you're going to be a championship team, you've got to.  We're down to a one-game season.  We're tied.  They don't have the lead, and we don't have the lead.  Why wouldn't I feel very confident? 
 
Q.  Can you talk about that 9th inning?
 
DUSTY BAKER: I didn't think the second ball that Chipper hit was going to go out.  I thought Sammy had a chance.  It was a great matchup.  I'm glad Sammy put it in play, and it almost tied the game up.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT