AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2004
Todd Reid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Todd. 


Q.  Was that the toughest day you've spent on a tennis court?

TODD REID:  Yeah, by far (smiling).  It was pretty tough out there, you know, it was tough conditions.  It was pretty hot.  The sun came out.  You know, he's a real good player.  He's tough from the baseline.  So, yeah, definitely.

Q.  Were you okay before the match?  There weren't any other problems?  Just the match itself?

TODD REID:  No, no, I was fine.  I was ready to go.  Just had a couple little problems there in the fourth set (smiling).  I think maybe I had too much fluid intake.  Sort of just came up.

Q.  You weren't ill?  You just couldn't keep it down?

TODD REID:  No, I was -- I was out of breath a bit in the third set.  Just things -- I think maybe I drank too much.  Then in I think 5-All, the fourth, 15-40, "Go all out at this point."  I just ran a lot of balls down.  I went pretty hard at that point.  It just came up in the end (laughter).

Q.  Have you ever done that before on a court?

TODD REID:  No, I don't think so.  I think that's a first. 

Q.  When did you realize that he was in strife down the other end of the court?

TODD REID:  It was 2-1 in the fifth set.  I didn't really know what was going on.  I thought I was going downhill.  I sort of looked up there and he was sort of pushing his serves in.  He was struggling, as well.

Q.  Was it a bit of a relief to you at that stage to know he was also feeling it, as well?

TODD REID:  Not so much a relief.  I just felt I was still in the match, once I realized.

Q.  It was a huge learning experience for you, wasn't it, to get out of that?

TODD REID:  Yeah, definitely.  I'm just going to have to learn that when I'm up two sets to love to put the match away.  Up 4-1 in the breaker, as well.  But he came through with some good shots.

Q.  What were you thinking there sitting in the shade at the back of the court?  Did you think you would go on at that stage?

TODD REID:  I sort of always kept hope.  You know, I was down 4-1 in the third against Massu in Sydney.  I thought I was gone in that game.  Ended up coming back.  Really, anything can happen.

Q.  Did you have to take any tablets or anything, or once it all came up you felt fine? 

TODD REID:  I was actually cramping, then I chucked it up (laughter).  It all came up.  I stopped cramping after that.  But then it kicked back in in the fifth again. 

Q.  You did something to your foot, as well.  Did you lose a toenail?

TODD REID:  No, I just broke it.  It was just a bit painful.  The trainer came out and gave me -- put some tape around it.  It was fine.

Q.  What was the worst moment? 

TODD REID:  The worst moment?  Hmm, probably when I got down a break 2-1 in the fifth, or when I probably -- when my guts came up, as well.  That wasn't the best (smiling). 

Q.  When all that was happening, what sort of inspiration did you draw?  How did you get mental strength? 

TODD REID:  What, after I threw up (smiling)? 

Q.  Yeah. 

TODD REID:  That was a great inspiration (laughter).  No, it just relieved me.  I was fine.  He probably thought I was worse, but I was a lot better after that happened.  I felt a hundred percent after that. 

Q.  But mentally, what were you going through? 

TODD REID:  I was just thinking, "You know, you got to go out and serve for the match now."  Had a three-minute break, so it was obviously good before I went out there.  I just thought, "Be aggressive and go for it."  Didn't end up happening.  He broke me quite comfortably.

Q.  Sargsian played a doubles match next.  What have you been doing?

TODD REID:  Took a shower, got a rub.  I saw Chris in the change rooms.  He said, "Well done."  I said, "Who do you play in doubles?"  He said he played him.  He said, "Thanks." 

Q.  Has anyone had a look at you or anything like that, talked to medical people?

TODD REID:  Yeah, I went.  Tim Wood just took my blood pressure, just to see if everything was fine.  And everything is fine, yeah.

Q.  He didn't recommend fluids for you?

TODD REID:  Oh, yeah, just to drink a bit.  That's all really I can do, just eat and drink.

Q.  What does it mean to you, a win like that?  How does that make you feel?

TODD REID:  Oh, yeah, it's great.  It's by far the best feeling I've ever had on the court, to have won that match, especially with the crowd.  The crowd were great.  There were just so many people.  After watching all those Davis Cups, as well, just watching Lleyton and Flip after the end of the match, I sort of had that, as well, a big crowd behind me. 

Q.  You stole Andre Agassi's act at the end. 

TODD REID:  Is that what he does?  I was wondering.  Someone told me that.  I didn't mean to do that.  Sorry (laughter).  No, I just thought I would give the crowd a bow.  They were just so great during the match. 

Q.  The cramps were in the quads, were they? 

TODD REID:  Yeah.  Well, it was just in my quad, a bit in my glute.  It was making my leg twitch a bit.

Q.  Right leg?

TODD REID:  I can't remember (laughter).  You might have to go and watch it.

Q.  You probably got Roger Federer next. 

TODD REID:  Yeah, that's -- I'm just going to try and get my rest.  Maybe tomorrow I'll start thinking about that.  He's still out there on the court.  But I got to watch a lot of him during the Davis Cup.  So I know a lot about his game.  You know, he's a great player.  He won Wimbledon.  Geeze, he finished off the year well last year, as well, so... 

Q.  How far do you think you can go?  Have you given that any thought?  What is sort of your end ambition?

TODD REID:  I'm not really -- I'm just trying to win matches.  I'm not too concerned.  I'm 19.  This is the first time I've won matches in a Grand Slam.  I'm just going to take it as it is.  I'm not really going to worry too much about how far I can go.  I'm just going to try and do my best.  If I win, I win.  If I lose, I lose.

Q.  Beyond the Australian Open, you've had a good start to the year.  Have you given any thought to where your ambitions are?

TODD REID:  There's some tournaments in the States.  There's the Masters Series.  But I'm not really too sure what I'm going to do yet.  I've got to sit down and talk through my schedule after that. 

Q.  Have you played five sets before?

TODD REID:  I played Peter Luczak in a practice match, 8-6 in the fifth.  That was it.  That was the only time.  Then when I was about 10.  I think I played my mate Mark out there, we went to five sets, yeah.

Q.  Did you think of Pete Sampras at all when you were having your problem?

TODD REID:  When I threw up? 

Q.  Yes. 

TODD REID:  No, not really.  It just relieved me so much.  I was so happy to get it up (smiling). 

Q.  Do you realize how white you were?  Have you seen the tape?

TODD REID:  No.  I'll have to have a sit back tonight and have a little look. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT