adidas International
January 14, 2004
Todd Reid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Todd, please. 
 
 
Q.  Did you expect to be one of the three Australians in the quarters?
 
TODD REID:  In the quarters, not probably at the start of the tournament.  But, yeah, it's something very good, I think, in front of my hometown.  I'm very happy to be in the quarterfinals and just winning matches. 
 
Q.  How did you feel out there today?
 
TODD REID:  I felt pretty good.  He got up an early break there.  The wind, I sort of had to get used to the wind a little bit.  It was slow conditions today, which I thought suited him a little bit better.  But once I got my nose into the match, things started to go better.  
 
Q.  Todd, he's 20-odd in the world.  Impressive win, 6-1 in the second.  You feel how much more comfortable now than, say, when you were here 12 months ago?
 
TODD REID:  Yeah, 12 months ago I was just winning the first set everywhere.  I was having a bit of trouble finishing off matches.  But now, I think in Queen's last year after I won my first match, I think it made it a lot better for me, helped me a bit.  Now I've won a couple of matches in Adelaide as well.  So I'm starting to get some matches under my belt. 
 
Q.  Did Chris' victory yesterday give you a bit of a kick as well?
 
TODD REID:  No...  It's great.  I'm really happy that Chris won.  To beat Juan Carlos Ferrero, No. 3 in the world, is just something amazing.  It will be something he can remember forever.   But I've just been doing my own thing, just worrying about myself.  I'm very happy for Chris, but I'm just worrying about myself, really.  
 
Q.  Will you stay and watch Chris' match?
 
TODD REID:  Yeah, well, I play the winner of that match.  I played Wayne last week, and I've been practicing with Gooch quite a bit.  I don't think I'll hang around and watch; it's a bit too late. 
 
Q.  Have you played Chris in junior matches and stuff?
 
TODD REID:  No, I played him once in a future probably a couple months ago.  And on clay I got that one.  But other than that, we actually haven't played that much.  
 
Q.  Where was that?
 
TODD REID:  I think it was Beaumaris futures.  I think it was second round.  
 
Q.  You waved your fists at the end of the match.  Were you waving to anyone in particular?
 
TODD REID:  I waved to Frommy, yeah.  We sort of have a little thing after the match.  
 
Q.  What sort of advice has he given you?
 
TODD REID:  Frommy, he taught me to slow things down from my match the other day.  I think I was just rushing in the second and third sets when I was just getting slaughtered there for a little while.  But told me to slow it down when I was trouble.  He's been helping me out with tactics.  He's been around, he's played all these guys, so he knows how they play.  
 
Q.  How do you get out of that cycle of being a guy who's good at winning first sets and not finishing it off to the guy who's through to the quarterfinals here?
 
TODD REID:  I think it's just experience.  You've got to learn sometimes, even though I learned about five, six times (laughing).  But it's all experience.  
 
Q.  Did you pretty much go on court now, the way you're playing at the moment, thinking you can win just about any match?
 
TODD REID:  Yeah, definitely.  I've won the last 22 out of 24 matches, I think.  Just whenever you go out there, I feel like I can get myself into the match.  I got down an early break there today.  I think I was down 2-love.  I just feel I can get myself into any match, especially with the game I play.  
 
Q.  Making the quarters here and also last week in Adelaide, what's that sort of likely to translate to in terms of getting you into tournaments, ranking-wise? 
 
TODD REID:  Yeah, I'm probably into most challengers now.  I'm not  -- I don't think I'll be getting into any ATPs yet.  But, yeah, it gets me into most challengers and probably some quallies, maybe some Masters Series; I wouldn't know.  
 
Q.  Are things happening more quickly at the moment than you would have expected them to?
 
TODD REID:  I was hoping for this to happen last year, but I've had to wait a year now.  But I guess it just comes whenever it comes.  I've still got a long way to go.  I'm only maybe 150 now  - if that.  There's still a long way to go.  
 
Q.  You've got plenty of people around you to keep your feet on the ground?
 
TODD REID:  Oh, yeah, definitely.  Everyone's been helping me quite a bit lately, and I think it's just starting to show off now.  I've done three Davis Cup trainings now, and Wally, Fitzy, Frommy and so many people have had so much input on me. 
 
Q.  This may have been published already, but have you got a wildcard next week?
 
TODD REID:  Yeah, I won it at the Australian Open Training Camp.  That was probably the 20th or something. 
 
Q.  You earned your wildcard?
 
TODD REID:  Yeah, yeah.  I won it, yeah. 
 
Q.  Does that make a difference to your attitude going in there, having won?
 
TODD REID:  Maybe not so much now.  But, yeah, definitely at the time when I won it, I think it's a great opportunity for us Aussies to get some match practice on the courts there at the Australian Open, just before.  I mean, it's perfect leading up to the first Grand Slam of the year.  There's about six wildcards to Australians.  It's a great opportunity for us.  
 
Q.  Did McNamara work you pretty hard?
 
TODD REID:  Yeah, he was working us pretty hard.  We were out there about four hours a day plus fitness after, so he was working us pretty hard.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT