US OPEN
September 4, 2000
Bart McGuire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 BART McGUIRE: I don't have any statement really. We did issue a press release today, as
you know, about moving The Tour Championships to Munich. I think we laid out the reasons
pretty well in the statement, but just sort of as bullet points, the principal reasons are
that, first, we had significantly greater prize money, compensation to the tour from this
package in Munich than we had in New York. Second, the amenities for sponsors and for the
media and for the players will be absolutely first class. I think those of you who have
been to the Grand Slam Cup in Munich would attest to that. Third, it gives us an
opportunity to shorten the calendar in a way that would have been really impossible to do
had we kept in the United States with a tournament in the United States leading up to The
Championships. Fourth, it is really easier for the players to end up the season in Europe
than going back yet again across the ocean to the United States. And, fifth, it really is
a recognition of the great strength that the tour has in Europe with the number of
tournaments we have in Europe, with the number of players. I know there are people who
felt that we're a little bit too North Americanized on the tour. This is a recognition
that we recognize the strength of the game in Europe, as well. Those are really bullet
points of the reasons. As I say, they're really all outlined in the press release. I'm
happy to talk about that. I haven't met with a group of you for white quite awhile. If you
have other things you want to talk about, that's fine with me. 
 
Q. Regarding Oklahoma City, have you made a decision as to whether it's going to be
upgraded?
 
 BART McGUIRE: We haven't. We will have a tour meeting in a couple weeks, a telephone
board meeting, to consider the addition of a tournament to the calendar. Oklahoma City is
certainly one of the ones we're considering. 
 
Q. How comfortable are you not having any US tournaments after the US Open?
 
 BART McGUIRE: Well, I think it's fine. I think the reason that we did this was that we
saw a real opportunity in Munich. If we're out of the United States, really out of the
United States from after the US Open or shortly after the US Open to early February. I
think if you were devising a calendar from scratch, you might say it would be nice to have
an additional event in the United States. But the fact is, there are all sorts of areas
where it would be nice to have events. One of the things that I think is striking, from a
long-term, strategic point of view, we ought to be rectifying, we don't have any top-level
events in South America, Latin America. Another thing is that we're probably a little shy
on events in the Far East. We're really confined pretty much to Australia and Japan at the
top level. The fact is that there are more places in the world where strategically we
ought to be and we can put events. I will then track back to your question and say, does
that mean that there are going to be some times when you won't be in the United States or
some times when you won't be in Europe or some times where you won't be in the Far East?
Sure. But our goal ultimately and strategically is to promote the game the best we can
throughout the world. This decision is a reflection of that. 
 
Q. What is the date?
 
 BART McGUIRE: The date will be next year, October 29, which means we're shortening the
calendar by two weeks. We might have been able to do it by one week if we had stayed in
the United States. By moving to Munich, we don't have to have the event in Philadelphia
the week beforehand. That is being moved to Dubai actually early in February. Therefore,
we are able to shorten the calendar by two weeks. That's a tremendous plus. You've all
otherwise recognized and we've recognized and the players have recognized that there isn't
a long enough off-season. This gives us the players more of a chance to recover
physically, more of a chance to work on various aspects of their games. It has been a goal
for me ever since I came into this job two and a half years ago. I'm really excited that
we were able to accomplish it. 
 
Q. Do you know what it clashes with on the men's side that week or not?
 
 BART McGUIRE: For next year, it will be Bercy. It will be opposite Bercy. Obviously,
we've had groups of the ATP Tour and representatives of the Grand Slams, representatives
of the Tennis Masters Series and the WTA Tour talking about trying to rationalize the
calendar in the longer term. I have hopes that conflict won't last for very long. For next
year, it would be opposite Bercy. 
 
Q. The Garden said they would have been able to accommodate moving the tournament up at
the Garden. Was that a consideration for you or was the money from Bill Dennis just too
good to pass up?
 
 BART McGUIRE: He could have accommodated at the Garden, but we couldn't have
accommodated it on our schedule. We believe pretty firmly that, in fairness to the
players, the week before The Championships ought to be played on the same surface in a
close-by locale, certainly on the same continent, as The Championships. That gives the
players a chance to acclimate to the time zones, the surfaces, so forth. We couldn't have
shortened our calendar in the way we've done if we had stayed in the United States. The
other factors, you know, certainly money was a factor. But I went through a list of five,
I think, at the beginning of this press conference. They're all significant ones to us. 
 
Q. How much prize money?
 
 BART McGUIRE: The prize money will be $3 million, up from $2 million. 
 
Q. First prize singles?
 
 BART McGUIRE: I haven't even gone back and calculated that. I don't remember. It will
be more than you and I make today. 
 
Q. The 1998 Chase Championships, raised the question about you having a tournament in
Africa. You sounded encouraging that day. You have mentioned areas of the world where you
would like to take the game. You did not mention Africa. 
 
 BART McGUIRE: I made a mistake in not mentioning Africa. I apologize for that. We did,
indeed, have a tournament in Cairo, which folded up essentially because the person who was
the money behind the tournament wound up with serious health problems. We were
disappointed that that folded up. We will be back in Africa. It's a question of finding
the right promoter and the right date on the calendar. Thank you for correcting me. 
 
Q. May I add that South Africa is a quite visible place and Nigeria, in terms of
finding funds. 
 
 BART McGUIRE: Strategically we should be looking in the direction of opening up the
game to places where it's important to promote the game of tennis. It also happens
frequently that promoters will come to us with proposals. We haven't had significant
proposals from those areas. We sure would entertain them. 
 
Q. Looks like a bit of revising the history of tennis. Men's Masters moving from the
Garden to Frankfurt. Now the women's event is moving from the Garden to Munich. Is that
the route of tennis?
 
 BART McGUIRE: No, I don't think we're following the men's tour at all. I think we made
this decision on our own. It was for the reasons I said. It had absolutely nothing to do
with what the men have done. Indeed, the men, as you know, have gone a different direction
now. If we were going to follow the men, we ought to follow them more closely rather than
from ten years ago. 
 
Q. What happened to following the men? I thought that was in serious discussion,
combining the two Championships and getting together with the ITF, putting the men and
women together at the end of the year?
 
 BART McGUIRE: I still believe that the most successful way that the game has ever been
promoted is in the major combined events. It's hard to miss the fact that the Grand Slams
and the Ericsson and Indian Wells are extraordinarily successful events. I think we will
come to the point - I hope sooner rather than later - that there are a limited number of
additional top-level combined events. There are difficulties in doing that, obviously with
the new deal that the men have done with ISL. They have focused themselves and are
marketing themselves in a different direction. Our calendar is shorter than theirs now. It
would be extremely difficult until we can reconcile the calendars for us to coordinate
with The Championships. There are obviously issues of how much the prize money should be
for the men and the women and other accommodations between the men and the women. Is it
going to happen? Absolutely, I think it will. Is it going to happen tomorrow? No.  
 
Q. Last year, last October, Grand Slam Cup, I believe there was one American who came
from the United States to cover it. Are you concerned about life coverage from the North
American press of the event?
 
 BART McGUIRE: Sure. The Grand Slam was an exhibition. I think that stands on a
different basis. It was not an event that gets ranking points. I think that stands in a
very different status. You could tell from the player fields over the years that that was
the case. This is our TOUR Championships. I hope that we will be able to attract men and
women from the press in the United States to come there. I think we will also be darned
accommodating to the ones who don't come there in making sure that we get information to
them, to have the coverage in the United States. We will lose some degree of coverage in
North America. That's unfortunate. We will gain some degree of coverage in Europe. That's
a plus. I mean, for example, we would get on Eurosport from time to time well over a
million people for matches that were showed at 1:00 in the morning in our Championships.
We will be in prime time. That will make a big difference in Europe. There are pluses and
minuses. We will do everything we can to accommodate the press from the whole world, and
certainly from the United States, in Munich. We will also do the best we can for people
who don't come to Munich to make sure they get the information to be able to do a good job
in covering women's tennis from the United States.  
 
Q. What is your response to the argument that in the past North America may have
dominated tennis to too great a degree, but now in women's tennis, Venus, Serena, Lindsay,
Monica, so many of the big names are American? 
 
 BART McGUIRE: Well, the interesting thing is, you mention those players, and they are
all enormously important international figures. They are all known worldwide by their
first names. They are popular in Europe, as well as in the United States. Sure, there's
always, as in any country, more interest to some extent to the players locally. Take a
look, for example, at Canada, where you have had in the last several years, the women have
had in Montreal 157,000 people at the tournament this year, and in Toronto last year
144,000 people. Those are both, by the way, records for those tournaments, men or women.
There are not any Canadian players anywhere near the top of the ranking lists. That just
goes to show how international we are. Sure, we have some outstanding United States
players. We have some outstanding players from the rest of the world. We are a
quintessentially international sport. 
 
Q. Monica Seles said she wouldn't play in Germany. Do you feel like you should approach
her and try to persuade her to take part or are you okay with her decision?
 
 BART McGUIRE: We've talked about Monica. That's a very personal decision. I think you
understand the reasons for it. It certainly would be great for women's tennis if she chose
to play in Germany. I'm not about to try to persuade her to do something that she doesn't
feel comfortable doing. It's also interesting that Monica has also been quoted, despite
that, she thinks this was a good decision. 
 
Q. When this deal came to the WTA, when things began to look fairly formative, did you
go to your television partners in the United States, approach them with the possibility of
becoming contract partners in the deal? If so, what sort of response did you get from
them?
 
 BART McGUIRE: As contract partners in this deal, no. We haven't yet decided what the
television, networks and cable television, will be on this. I think it is a real
opportunity for us and for the television people. I mean, it's been covered in different
ways over the last several years in the United States. We will have an opportunity to work
with television. We'll get very good television coverage in the United States. We didn't
feel comfortable going out and doing that until we had a deal that was signed and sealed.
That was done at the end of the last week.  
 
Q. Do you feel it's likely that Damir Dokic will be banned from the tour?
 
 BART McGUIRE: We haven't made a decision on that. I think I issued a release the other
day that said that we would take a careful look at what had happened, and we would decide
what action we would take, and we would announce that shortly after the United States
Open. I really believe that the important thing today is to focus on the tennis at the US
Open. Anything that we do with respect to Mr. Dokic, which I don't want to prejudge, will
be announced shortly after the US Open. 
 
Q. Can you just take us through the process of what will lead to this decision? Is it a
board meeting sort of thing?
 
 BART McGUIRE: No. This would be a tour staff decision. At the end of the day, I think
you can put the responsibility on me. 
 
Q. How much do you have a responsibility to the player? How much leeway do you have to
intervene on the player's behalf where you have a parent or coach acting inappropriately?
 
 BART McGUIRE: We certainly take that into account. I've already talked to
representatives of Jelena Dokic. I also offered the opportunity to Mr. Dokic to talk to
us. That's part of the mix in the decision-making process. We have a responsibility to the
tour; we have a responsibility to our staff; we have a responsibility to the players. I'm
not going to categorize that and say one is more important than the other. They're all
important.  
 
Q. Has he spoken to you yet?
 
 BART McGUIRE: No. 
 
Q. Can you give us some kind of timetable on the consideration of the issue? Have you
started already?
 
 BART McGUIRE: Let me put it this way. I said we would make a decision shortly after the
US Open. I think a week after the US Open, I'm heading for Australia. 
 
Q. I see from the Ericsson people that once again the women's final is Saturday, tape
delayed. The men's final is broadcast live on Sunday. Have you had discussions with
television people about that? What's their explanation for that?
 
 BART McGUIRE: Charlie, I really don't want to get into that. I do think that we have
had extremely good television ratings at the Ericsson over the last few years. They
compare very favorably to the men, as at Indian Wells, as in many other places. I would
just say as a basic aspiration for us that live television tends to be more vibrant and
more exciting than tape delay. Sometimes a tape delay of an hour or so is okay. When you
get much beyond that, an awful lot of people may choose to get the results over the
Internet or get the results over the radio or by calling up you. We certainly prefer to
have live or a very, very short tape delay coverage. 
 
Q. Does the sensitivity that you're indicating here suggest that there may be some
possibility that it still might be live?
 
 BART McGUIRE: Charlie, I didn't mean to suggest anything one way or the other on that. 
 
Q. It could be argued that on the men's side there's really just one true household
name left in the draw here, and five or so on the women's side. 
 
 BART McGUIRE: I'd like to think you're way understating it on the women's side. 
 
Q. The women's tour has experienced some great successes recently. Can you focus with
just a word or two why the success? 
 
 BART McGUIRE: Word or two? I don't think of it in those terms. I would say athleticism,
attractiveness, empowerment. I think those would be among the ones I'd use. 
 
Q. A colleague of mine just whispered a three letter word, s-e-x. What about that? 
 
 BART McGUIRE: A lot of people ask the question, "Are we in the business of selling
tennis or are we in the business of selling sex?" I'm very comfortable with the way
we present the women. We have people who are terrific tennis players. You start with that.
The fact is that fans are interested in personalities, they're interested in the human
side of people. That goes from the stories, like Monica Seles coming back from the
stabbing and from the death of her father, like the Williams sisters coming out of very
difficult economic circumstances, like Lindsay Davenport coming and losing a lot of weight
and training herself to becoming the top player in the world or one of the top players in
the world depending on what month it is, and the fact that many of our players are very
attractive. Their being attractive is a real plus. You don't ask the movie studios to
apologize for the fact that Julia Roberts or any of the other major actresses are very
attractive. That's a plus. We're in the entertainment business. We should take advantage,
in a tasteful way, of all the attributes we have. The fact that many of our players are
very attractive is something we ought to take advantage of, and we try to.  
 
Q. On a personal level, how do you react to being called a gangster?
 
 BART McGUIRE: I didn't realize I'd been called a gangster.  
 
Q. By Damir Dokic. 
 
 BART McGUIRE: Well, I don't think I take it very seriously. I don't imagine anybody
else does. 
 
Q. How about your organization being called by him either communist, fascist, Nazis?
 
 BART McGUIRE: You want to take a vote around here how many people believe that we're
communists, fascists and Nazis?  
 
Q. Do you laugh at it? Do you consider taking legal action about those things?
 
 BART McGUIRE: No, because I don't really believe anyone would take that seriously.  
 
Q. Who is the head of your gang?
 
 BART McGURE: (No response.) 
 
Q. Now that you're taking a Tier I championship, another Tier II out of Philadelphia in
the US, is there any idea of adding a Tier I or II in May or end of April?
 
 BART McGUIRE: We're certainly looking at calendar alternatives. One of you asked the
question whether we were going to upgrade Oklahoma City. That's one of the ones we're
looking at. So, yes. We have, by the way, ten tournaments in the United States, which is
twice as many as any other country in the world. When you add in North America, you have
13 tournaments. Again, more than in any discrete region like that. But, yes, we are
looking at the possibility of adding another tournament in the United States and
potentially strategically located. If you look where we are, for example, we are primarily
East Coast of the United States and West Coast of the United States. The closest thing we
have to the middle is Scottsdale. I think a strong argument can be made that the heartland
of the United States is someplace we should look carefully at. We're going to do that. As
I said, we're going to make a decision probably in a couple weeks' time. 
 
Q. Are you going to take part in the Garden's effort to create another tournament there
in November, exhibition of the top players? 
 
 BART McGUIRE: I think it's likely there will be an event in the Garden. We're not
included in that at the time. I doubt that we will be. You never can tell what's going to
happen.  
 
Q. Do you think that having the top players maybe come back to New York in November can
only help the tour, even if you're not involved?
 
 BART McGUIRE: Depends how it's done. I think there can be a lot to be said for it. One
of the reasons for shortening our calendar is to give the players more of a break. We knew
very well that there would be special events, exhibitions during that time period. We
might even wind up participating in one or more. We might wind up participating in one. I
think it's important that whatever is done be done in a way that it's not like a
tournament, it doesn't put the burdens on players that a tournament does because we're
really serious about trying to give the players a break. It's one thing to play an
exhibition for a night or two, and you've all seen exhibitions, there isn't normally the
emotional strain or the physical strain in dealing with them. It would be something else
if you were doing a week-long event that looked like a tournament. I don't anticipate that
that's going to happen. 
 
Q. Martina had gone on the record saying it was a mistake to move out of the Garden,
because of the atmosphere, what it was like in New York. Have you approached your top
players to ask them what they thought, all of them?
 
 BART McGUIRE: We talked to our top players about this as the decision was in the
process. As you can imagine, as the quotes you mentioned from Martina Hingis and Monica
Seles indicate, there's a range of views on that. You would anticipate that. It's a
change. There are definitely pluses. A couple of you have talked about what some people
might consider to be minuses. On balance, I'm very comfortable that the decision was the
right decision at the right time for women's tennis. But is it going to satisfy everybody?
Heck, no.  
 
Q. What is your gut feeling? Someone tried to (inaudible) after your season was over.
The audience here in New York, is it salable? Are they going to come and watch players go
through the motions?
 
 BART McGUIRE: Well, you know, if it happens, then we'll have an answer to that
question, Charlie.  
 
Q. What is your gut feeling?
 
 BART McGUIRE: I'm not going to get into that. 
 
Q. You're kind of in a dicey situation in Indian Wells. It's one of your most
successful tournaments, but you are under an ATP brand name. The tournament is called
Tennis Masters Series, Indian Wells. What is the solution to that? How can the WTA build
brand identity at essentially a men's tournament?
 
 BART McGUIRE: That's a very good question. The position that the Tennis Masters Series
has is that that's a generic name, that it represents the best quality in tennis, that it
is not gender specific. Indeed, we have two of the events, one of them that Indian Wells
calls Tennis Masters Series. My preference would be that it were named something else. At
the Ericsson, which is also one of the Masters Series, that's the Ericsson. That's a
little easier for us. I look at Indian Wells, though, as an enormous success. I mean, the
facility is a great facility. By the way, it was very encouraging to me that the women
sold out the 16,100-seat Center Court during the first year for our finals, and that was
the only time that that arena was sold out.  
 
Q. Public relations aside, what were your gut feelings to John's comments about the
Williamses and college players, men being able to take them down?
 
 BART McGUIRE: I tend to think that the women play on the women's tour, and John McEnroe
plays on the senior tour. That's an appropriate division.  
 
Q. Back to Munich. Do you know yet what sort of time of day matches will be played?
That can often have a bearing on the amount of publicity and coverage you get both in the
newspapers and television. 
 
 BART McGUIRE: I think there will be a match starting around 3:00 or so. That's where
ZDF comes in. The later matches will be broadcast differently. We have an agreement with
Eurosport. The later ones will be broadcast on Eurosport. As I understand it, there will
be just one admission. If the matches start around --. 
 
Q. Very much like the Grand Slam Cup?
 
 BART McGUIRE: Very many like the Grand Slam Cup. 
 
Q. On the press setup there, is that being left to Bill Dennis and people? The Grand
Slam Cup has been more than satisfactory, very good in terms of transport, hotels, the way
the press setup operates, whereas, Madison Square Garden, we've had a few frustrations
over the years; will the Bill Dennis operation continue?
 
 BART McGUIRE: Absolutely.  
 
Q. Would you care to comment about the pay-per-view program, the arrangement you have
coming up for the European tournaments?
 
 BART McGUIRE: That's a very interesting and exciting one to me. Just for your
background, in the United States, in 1998 when I first came in here, we had women's tennis
on US cable or national television during 18 weeks of the year. Most of that was Grand
Slams and Indian Wells and Ericsson. There were a few events on the women's tour that had
the finals or maybe even the semifinals. In 1999, we were up to 22 weeks. In this year,
we're up to 27 weeks. Next year, we'll be at perhaps 29 or 30. So we have greatly enhanced
the national network and cable coverage. But we talked to In Demand on their analog
channels to do pay-per-view of matches that are not being carried on cable. They will do
something between 27 and 31 matches this fall on an experimental basis. It's particularly
exciting because this will be their flagship effort to do live sports broadcasting. I
think they wanted to come to us because they felt it would be very successful. Why I like
it is that it gives the rabid tennis fan the opportunity to see additional matches, but in
no way does it interfere with the broader national terestrial or cable coverage that we
have. It's an increment and not a subtraction.  
 
Q. At what price? Do you know?
 
 BART McGUIRE: At what price? I believe they're selling the whole series for $29.95, and
one day is for $9.95. We'll see how much of a commercial success it turns out to be. But,
as I say, I mean, I think it gives the rabid fan the opportunity to see some earlier round
matches, even the quarters and semis in some of the tournaments, and it no way detracts
from some of our coverage. I believe at the end of the day, the media coverage, both from
you in the print media and television, is enormously important and we should take no steps
that would detract from that.  
 
Q. Can you share some of your experiences with us from running the women's tour?
 
 BART McGUIRE: My personal experiences in this job? I continue to think that it is the
most exciting time I can imagine to be involved in a women's sport, and I consider us to
be the flagship women's sport in the world. We have a chance to bring promotion and
revenues to a women's sport that are comparable to healthy men's sports. We have a long
way to go to where we would like to go. But the fact that we have increased television
coverage, in the way that I've said, the fact that we've signed the largest sponsorship
deal, largest television contract in the history of women's sport is very exciting to me.
I think there are significant rewards to this job. I'm still having a good time. 
 
Q. Does American women's college tennis have any role in this? Where do they sit in
your thinking?
 
 BART McGUIRE: We have a number of players who have come through the colleges, then gone
on to successful professional careers. That's not probably the most prominent career track
for top-level players. I mean, it's a different way of personal development. I'm sure not
going to discourage anybody from going on to college, my goodness. 
 
Q. Do you see it as a significant source of new players for the tour?
 
 BART McGUIRE: It has not historically been a significant source of players at the very
top level. It has been a source of players in the Top 50 or the Top 100.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT