U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 24, 2018
David Bolen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You guys were all square going into 9.
DAVID BOLEN: We were?
Q. Uh-huh.
DAVID BOLEN: Yeah, made a really good birdie on 8.  It's a tough, tough hole and I don't know what he hit there, probably 5- or 6-iron to about two feet.
That's just a good way to lose it I guess if you're going to lose it with a shot like that.
Q. Going into the back nine you took the lead and finished it from there.
DAVID BOLEN: Yeah, I was really steady.  Just a lot of pars really.  We both three-putted 12, and then I just kept kind of grinding away.
Made a par on 11 that won.
Made a par on 13 that was good enough to win.
So it's just a tough golf course.  Pars can feel like birdies out here.
Q. You played in the playoffs this morning.
DAVID BOLEN: Yeah.
Q. First of all, coming into the day, what is your mindset like?
DAVID BOLEN: It's probably a little easier to play in the match play than the playoff.  Playoffs you have to be real patient.  There were four groups out there so just it takes a while.  I'm not the most patient person.
But, you know, then you get -- plus it's in the morning.  It was a little cool.  There was mist going on.  It's a tough, tough hole to be playing and so, you know, bogeys were good enough to advance to the second hole of the playoff, and so it's just a tough hole.
You had to remain as patient as you could, so...
Q. After you advanced through the playoff, what was the timeline between that and your tee times?
DAVID BOLEN: Took it easy.  Went and saw the chiropractor and got stretched out and got my back loosened up and did just some treatment.
Had some breakfast and took it easy and stayed here and then started our routine all over again.
Q. Does that kind of amp you up having to the high-intensity playoff and then coming into match play?
DAVID BOLEN: It gives you a lot of confidence going into match play because now you got through the playoff.  You're really excited.  You've been on the course for a couple holes.  You've got to see a couple shots.
I think there is a little advantage there because you got into a routine earlier in the morning that could carry you over to match play.  Absolutely.
Q. Been a quarterfinalist here before.  Does that past experience help you?
DAVID BOLEN: Yeah.  What was it, 2o15 I was in the semifinals.  I know I can -- you know, on a hard golf course I can stay real steady.  You know, just comes down to making a few putts here and there.
You know, it's match play, so it's kind of luck of the draw.  Anybody can get hot.  Stay patient and make a couple putts.
Q. I know you touched on it a little bit, but how is the course playing out there today?
DAVID BOLEN: I mean, it's just a tough golf course.  I don't know that it could play -- I don't know that this place ever really plays easy.
You're really rewarded for hitting it in the fairway and you're really penalized if you hit it in the rough.  That's what we like to see.  The greens are perfect.  You can make putts if you put it in the right part of the green.
Q. Heading into tomorrow's round of 32, looking to stick with the same game plan?
DAVID BOLEN: Absolutely.  Just one shot at a time, get the ball in the fairway, and figure out what to do from there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT