U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
October 7, 2015
David Bolen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. First of all, did you ever expect to be in the semifinals of this championship?
DAVID BOLEN: No (laughing).  Candid, no.  I felt like I could -- I felt like I could play well enough to get to match play, and I knew in match play anything can happen, so I did not expect -- I did not expect it.  I was just trying to get to match play, and then after that it's kind of game on.  It's worked out.  A lot of fairways, a lot of greens this week, and on these kind of golf courses, it adds up to kind of getting through to the next level.
Q. Got off to a great start today.
DAVID BOLEN: Yeah.
Q. Does it help to have a big lead early in something like this?
DAVID BOLEN: I think so.  The important part is staying aggressive even with a lead.  You can't get necessarily aggressive with the pins, but aggressive to smart targets, I guess, and that's kind of been my game plan.  Things have to go your way.  I mean, Todd missed a short one early, which isn't like him.  So a couple things went my way as well as making a couple putts down the stretch.
Q. Tell me about the birdies at 1 and 4.
DAVID BOLEN: 1, I hit a 9-iron in to about maybe 30 feet short, right of the hole, got underneath it, and just a little curler, just kind of went in last roll.  4, hit a driver, 3-wood up there short of the green, pitched it up to about five feet right of it and made that one.
Q. And then you just kept the heat on, got it up to 4-up on 8 with another par?
DAVID BOLEN: Yeah, 8 was kind of another one I pulled my drive way left over in the trap between 8 and -- I guess 11 over there, and hit an 8-iron out of there to about 25 feet below the hole, kind of got a real fortunate kick off the left hill, and then Todd hit one above the hole left up in the rough, and that's just a tough spot to be, and so just made a par there.
Q. That's a tough hole anyhow.  Nobody gets up-and-down from that left side.
DAVID BOLEN: No, no, it's kind of a no-fly zone.
Q. And then finished up strong, 14, made a couple --
DAVID BOLEN: 30-footers on the last two holes, and that felt good, and I feel like I'm seeing my spots and hitting them there.
But no, just grateful to see those go in.
Q. Do you know much about your opponent coming up?
DAVID BOLEN: I have no idea anything about him.
Q. And do you worry about who your opponent is when you're playing match play?
DAVID BOLEN: I don't.  You know, the way I've been playing, my game plan is going to stay the same regardless of who I play, and if I keep hitting fairways and keep hitting greens and see a couple putts go in, then I can't really control anything else beyond that.
Q. So in match play you pretty much worry about what you're doing?
DAVID BOLEN: I think I have to.  Unless I'm given a reason to have to play differently, but so far it hasn't panned out that way.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT