THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2021
Tyler McCumber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Was today any more relaxing or any easier because you got yesterday's experience kind of out of the way?
 TYLER MCCUMBER:   You know, I would say I had a good focus for today.  Felt like I was really able to kind of just get in my bubble and get into the shots pretty well, you know, with some momentum from yesterday.
 Q. I'm assuming you'll take birdie on 17 every day?
 TYLER MCCUMBER:   Yeah.
 Q. Two for two now.
 TYLER MCCUMBER:   Absolutely.  I was happy to start it, first time playing it in THE PLAYERS with a birdie, and super happy to follow it up with one.
 Q. Did the wind lay down a little bit today as opposed to yesterday?
 TYLER MCCUMBER:   Well, I played early in the morning, so we had a few holes without wind, those first 13, 14 holes, and didn't kick up until the end on the front nine, my finishing nine, but today -- you know, it's pretty consistently -- I'm not sure exactly what it was, maybe five to ten, kind of out of the same direction all day, which here it can normally swirl, but it wasn't swirling today.
 Q. What do you like about your game right now, about the way you're playing?
 TYLER MCCUMBER:   I'm definitely in control of my golf ball, which is great.  You know, hitting a lot the shots that I'm seeing.  Just sort of of feel like I'm plotting my way around the course pretty well.
 Q. Do you ask Pops for any tips on how to get it around here?
 TYLER MCCUMBER:   Oh, absolutely, yeah.  We've talked strategy on a lot of the courses on TOUR, especially this one since the conditions are kind of unique this week and they have been in years past.
 Q. With your dad being such a successful player, what is his role in your golf process?
 TYLER MCCUMBER:   Oh, he's been an awesome support system for me.  He's always encouraging me and sometimes given me some experience ahead of time, which a lot of the times I've had to learn on my own, but he's always there to help me if I ask, which has been really awesome.
 Q. Is this a tournament you went to like a million times growing up?
 TYLER MCCUMBER:   Yeah, I've been here quite a bit.
 Q. Lee got it to 9-under, you're 3, but Saturday sometimes they'll set this thing up for guys to make moves.  Are you looking forward to tomorrow in that regard?  Do you feel like right now anybody within five or six shots is in this thing?
 TYLER MCCUMBER:   Yeah.  I mean, obviously the history at THE PLAYERS, anything can happen, really.  Big movements in positions with players in this tournament.  Honestly just going to keep going and doing the same thing that I did today, which is give myself some chances for birdie and try to make as many as I can.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT