ATLANTIC 10 CONFERENCE MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 10, 2016
Bob McKillop
Brian Sullivan
Peyton Aldridge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Davidson - 78, La Salle - 63   
BOB McKILLOP: Never easy to play a first-round game against a team who was on the floor last night to begin with.  I think as the game progresses, the energy level is somewhat exposed, and we came out tight.  We came out not making shots, both the first half and the second half, and yet we weathered that, and I think we weathered it because of the tremendous effort our players made.  I thought we did a terrific job of getting 50/50 balls.  I thought we did a terrific job of getting second-shot opportunities.  I'm really pleased with our effort tonight.   
 Q.  Peyton, what was it like having the kind of game that you had on the kind of night when Gibbs was struggling to get it really flowing?  
PEYTON ALDRIDGE: I mean, before the game Coach told us to shoot like we were going to make it, and my teammates did a great job of getting me the ball inside early, and that really helped get the flow going in the game.  Jack is a great player and sometimes he's just going to have a couple off nights, and he's still a great player.  He still dished the ball and handled the ball excellent for us tonight.   
 Q.  What's the challenge in playing a late-night game?  You're sitting around all day, and I felt it myself just kind of waiting for 9:00.  
BRIAN SULLIVAN: No, not really.  It's a little abnormal just because we're usually at 7:00 but it kind of gives you time to rest.  Especially after tonight it'll be nice to get a day to recover.  Yeah, it's just a game, really.   
PEYTON ALDRIDGE: Yeah, like Brian said, it's just like preparing for another game and you've just got to stay focused throughout the game.  The coaching staff did a great job of preparing us for the game, so they just made sure we really stayed focused throughout the day.   
 Q.  Coach, obviously Gibson had his best scoring night to talk.  Talk about how he contributes even when he's not scoring.  
BOB McKILLOP: His presence alone attracts tremendous attention from the defense.  He has a remarkable capacity to sacrifice that to be unselfish about that, not demanding to have the ball in his hands.  We work him and Brian at the point guard, so he doesn't get frustrated if he's off the ball, but he sets screens, he makes cuts, and I think he has learned very well to become a complete player.   
 Q.  Just for the season overall, Jack has had a phenomenal year.  With kind of his notoriety, a lot of comparisons come on with former players that you've had, most notably Steph Curry.  For you as a coach knowing just about every scoring guard you'll have from here on out may bring a comparison like that, are there positives and negatives for someone like Jack when he hears that?  
BOB McKILLOP: You know, there's no way you can compare anybody to Steph Curry.  Steph Curry is on a planet of his own.  I think everyone in Davidson College basketball understands that.  Steph is an icon for us, and Steph is an inspiration for us.  Our guys just think the world of him because he has committed so much of himself to our program, not just for the years he was with us and the years afterward, but even this year, with this year's team, we have a beautiful new practice facility, and Steph was a big, big part of that in terms of his generosity.  Steph went out of his way to come to one of our games against UNC Charlotte back in December.  He came in a day early when they were playing the Hornets so he came to our game.  He came to our practice when we played out in Berkeley against California.  This is a guy who has a lot of things on his plate, and he takes the time to do that.  He came to make the first shot in our new practice facility back in September.  Pretty darned special young man who has set a model of excellence that's unparalleled for our players.   
 Q.  Obviously Peyton Aldridge had a great game tonight.  Do you see him molding into one of those players that you can rely on even when Jack Gibbs isn't scoring to his full potential?  
BOB McKILLOP: That's been the luxury of our program is that Jack and Brian and Peyton have been all outstanding performances at some point during the year.  If the three of them were on the same page in the same night, it could be very enjoyable for me.  Usually when Jack does not shoot well, Brian does, or when Peyton shoots well, Brian doesn't.  So getting them on the same page is -- and you'll notice the shot distribution, Peyton had 15, Brian had 13 and Jack had 11, so there's a tremendous sense of being great teammates amongst these guys.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT