NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP: FIRST ROUND - UTAH STATE VS TEXAS TECH
March 19, 2021
Chris Beard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  Texas Tech 65, Utah State 53
 CHRIS BEARD:   I want to start by congratulating Utah State on an outstanding season, a well-coached team, some really good players.  We knew they were not going to beat themselves and we were going to have to try to be the aggressor to get this first game under our belts.
 It's a unique relationship in this tournament with whoever you play in the first game because you really have about a week to prepare and you learn so much about them.  I saw every game they played, every press conference.  You really feel like you're kind of a part of their team by the time the ball is finally tipped.
 They had an outstanding season, lost a couple games early and they just went on a run.  Very worthy of their bid, and just got a lot of respect for their program.  Want to wish all those players a healthy off-season and summer.  I just can't tell you how much respect I have for them.
 In terms of our guys, it's a happy locker room because we, again, knew that we had a tough draw.  Utah State, one of the most disciplined teams in the tournament.  Queta, really good player inside, so all sorts of challenges, so we're pleased to win.  So that would be my opening statement.
 And then Mr. Lunardi, I just want to thank him again for -- he never picks us, and our guys kind of feed on that.  I tell the guys to stay off of social media, but it's almost impossible this time of year, but a couple guys brought that to our attention that he once again didn't pick us, so not sure if he got a speeding ticket in Lubbock back in the day or something, but last time we were in this tournament we did pretty well and we intend to make a run this year, too.
 Q. You talk about guys at the NCAA Tournament level to make plays.  Can you speak to what Terrence Shannon was able to do in terms of making plays in that second half scoring all 10 of his points during that 24-4 run?
 CHRIS BEARD:   Yeah, we really played through him.  He got three assists during that run, as well.  He didn't play as well as he wanted to or we wanted him to or I wanted him to in the first half.  But it wasn't because he wasn't trying.  His heart was in the right place.  First NCAA Tournament game, I saw it with Jarrett Culver.  I saw it with some of our other great guys, Davide Moretti, that first game is a tough one, and I thought he did a great job at halftime calming down, taking the coaching, having confidence in himself, remembering all the hours in the gym and the sacrifices that he's made since last season ended to now, and really having the courage to play great down the stretch.
 I give his teammates a lot of credit.  We recognized who the hot hand was.  TJ did a great job offensively in the game.
 Q. In terms of the 22 turnovers that you were able to force against Utah State, what were you able to do to get them off kilter because they've been a team that's taken care of the ball, especially Queta, who they kind of really run their offense through?
 CHRIS BEARD:   Yeah, for us it always starts with Coach Adams, in my opinion one of the best coaches in college basketball.  Guy has been doing this for a long time, and we trust Coach Adams.  He does a great job putting together defensive game plans for us.  The players and myself and the rest of the staff, we've got a lot of faith and trust in Coach.  He did a great job with this game plan.
 Above all, the players deserve the credit.  Again, it was a game plan based on our respect for Utah State.  This is a disciplined team.  This team is not going to beat themselves.  We really felt like we had to be the most aggressive team.  We were willing to take some chances and leave ourselves open to some punches in doing that, and we did that today, gave up some easy baskets, a couple threes, but I thought obviously the ability to turn them over, create some offense from our defense really was probably the difference in the game.
 Q. This game seemed like it had so many runs back and forth.  What did you see in the one specifically right at the beginning of the second half, you guys went on a 16-2 run that really felt like you took control of this one.  What was really working in that run specifically?
 CHRIS BEARD:   Yeah, great NCAA Tournament games are a game of runs.  You've got to have a lot of poise, ups and downs, got to stay the course.  We didn't want to get into a one-possession game with Utah State because we know how disciplined they are and they've got some really good players they can play through late.  They did great this year through last-minute games.
 I thought specific to our successful run at the start of the second half, our defense remained consistent.  The first half we guarded -- really what helped us on that run is our offense opened up.  We got a little bit more aggressive on our break, a little bit more aggressive with our shot selection, and just told the guys to play fearless, to play with courage, to let it rip.  That's our deal this NCAA Tournament.  We try to give our guys a theme each year when we're here.  Let it rip.  We've earned the right to be here.
 We played in the best league in college basketball this year and held our own, and we think we can win six games in this tournament.  It's not going be to easy.  No one is going to predict us to do it, but when it comes down to a 40-minute game I think we can play with anybody.  The more aggressive we are, I think the better chance we have.
 Q. Were you impressed, without having an NCAA Tournament last year your guys obviously can't pull back on that and the team from two years ago looked so different.  Were you impressed with the ability to answer so many runs and so many things they were able to do in this game and not let the moment get too big with no NCAA Tournament last year?
 CHRIS BEARD:   Yeah, I was.  We've got some veterans, though.  We rely on Marcus and Kyler and Mac and J.B. and those guys to give us a poise, and we certainly did.  It was great to have Burton back out there.  He hasn't played in weeks.  He's playing with a deal now where he's showing a lot of courage and fight and toughness to try to help the team, and he did.  Big shot in the first half, gave us some calm minutes, and he was a real vocal part of our time-outs.  He's an outstanding player.
 The guys that have been here before, Kyler and Avery, Marcus has played in an NCAA Tournament game, so we had just enough experience where I thought it allowed us to kind of calm down and understand, hey, let's don't get rattled.
 Q. What can you say about the performance of Marcus today?  Obviously a tough matchup inside but he was able to take one of the best shot blockers in the nation in the post a little bit on offense and then did a good job holding him on the boards, as well.
 CHRIS BEARD:   Yeah, I thought Marcus's mind and his heart was in the right place today.  He came to play.  No doubt about it.  We played through him early.  He kept us in the game in the first half.
 It's a load down there trying to guard Queta -- make sure I'm pronouncing his name right.  It's always kind of disrespectful when you don't know it.  I know these guys by numbers.  But Queta, 23, outstanding player.  I think he's a future pro.
 So Marcus knew he had his hands full, but I thought Marcus more than held his own and battled.  Marcus is an experienced player.  He's the preseason Newcomer of the Year in the Big 12 for a reason.  Did a lot of work at the Division I level at VCU.  He's here.  This is his time.  These lights are not too bright for Marcus.
 I thought in the second half when we made a coaching decision to go small ball, Marcus was dialed in on that bench and just a great teammate.  Just like Marcus from the very first phone call in recruiting to today right now after the game, just a few minutes ago, Marcus isn't chasing stats.  He wants one thing and that's to win, and I thought that's exactly what he did today.  He played like a winner.
 Q. Obviously I know you guys just spent 40 minutes keeping the season alive, but what do you know about obviously what Eric Musselman has been able to build down at Arkansas, your next opponent?
 CHRIS BEARD:   Yeah, I like Muss.  We're friends.  Exchange calls, a text every once in a while, a lot of respect for what he did at Nevada.  We played those guys in Lubbock in a really tough game we were fortunate to win.
 I have a lot of pride in the state of Arkansas, Little Rock will always be special to me.  Got my first Division I opportunity there, and I just love that state.  I follow that program.
 He's doing a great job, and so a lot of respect for their program.  I've seen them play as a fan this year.  I know they've got a lottery pick, I know they've got a couple other NBA guys.  I know they've got an NBA coach that's going to game plan and scheme, so it'll be a real challenge for us, but we've been through a lot of challenges lately.  When you play 18 Big 12 games and you play in my opinion one of the most disciplined teams in the tournament in Game 1, Utah State, it's not going to be an excuse that we haven't been challenged.
 They're an outstanding team.  They're worthy of their high seed.  They've had a great season.  Nothing but respect for Coach and those players.  We look forward to the opportunity to play against a great team.
 Q. I was wondering in the first half it seemed like you weren't getting a whole lot of contributions from too many guys except for Marcus and maybe one other guy, but it seemed like everybody you put on the court in the second half was actually giving you major contributions.  Did you see it that way at all?
 CHRIS BEARD:   Yes, I agree with you.  March Madness to me is a players' game.  It sounds really obvious, like Captain Obvious here.  Your best players have to play well.  Anybody you put in the game has to contribute.  You're not going to be able to absorb a couple guys playing bad.  In the first half we had guys playing hard but not well.  Then the second half I would argue before watching the film that I think everybody played well in the second half, whether it be a Clarence dive on the floor; a Micah Peavy courageous jump shot; a Kyler Edwards, let's calm the team down, I'm a veteran; Mac McClung got going a little bit; TJ was our best player in the second half.  So I agree with you.  March Madness is a players' game, and I thought our players played well, especially in the second half.
 Q. Basically in the first half you weren't hitting shots.  Second half you were hitting shots.  Basically what was the biggest difference in you guys actually managing to knock down shots in the second half?
 CHRIS BEARD:   Yeah, we fired our shooting coach at halftime (laughter).  So you got the extended halftime here in the NCAA Tournament and the time-outs I guess because of commercials and the money side of this deal, so we took advantage of that.  We made some adjustments with our shooting coach for sure.
 No, in all seriousness, the players, I told the guys, man, just take a deep breath here, think about all the time you spent in the gym, the summer, the spring, early mornings, late nights, 300 club, extra shots.  We put in the work, man.  We deserve the right.  We earned the right to make some shots.  Let's don't go panic here at halftime and change our offense, let's just take a deep breath and be the best version of ourselves.  Now, we did get a little more aggressive offensively, turn up the heat a little bit because their half-court defense is so well.  I thought our best chance was to get some shots in transition.
 So from a coaching standpoint give the guys credit.  They listened.  Hey, let's go get some shots early because this defense is so good.
 Q. I noticed the first two buckets that Utah State scored were Queta and then the next I think 26 minutes, something like that, you guys kept him off and he didn't score at all.  What does it say about this team that they're able to keep the other team's best player from beating them and get the win?
 CHRIS BEARD:   Yeah, I can't tell you how good he is.  My friends in pro basketball always kind of ask me in spring, who did you see this year.  This guy will be at the top of the list.  Again today, double-double and six assists.  He's a triple-double guy.  I think the best thing we did today was probably limiting some of his shot attempts.
 Defense for us wasn't, hey, let's try to figure out how to make him go 4 for 15.  That wasn't the deal.  It was hey, man, we'd better not let him get 15 shots.  Today he gets eight shots if I'm accurate and that was probably the best thing we did because when he gets the ball something good is going to happen for Utah State.  It's going to be a bucket, it's going to be a foul drawn or it's going to be an assist.  He is the best big-man passer that I saw this year in college basketball.
 But I do think you've got to give our guys credit.  When we were in small ball, we fought him.  Marcus did a good job in the game.  We did just enough, I think, to not let him be the deciding factor.  But I want to congratulate him on another game.  A double-double with six assists, mic drop.  He's a good player.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT