BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S BASKETBALL MEDIA DAY
October 24, 2018
Chris Beard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We are now joined by Texas Tech coach, Chris Beard.  Coach, your opening statement?   
CHRIS BEARD: I just kind of echo what Coach Weber had to say, exciting time of year for all of us involved in college basketball.  Our team is working really hard.  It's a group I'm looking forward to coaching and it's a group that I think could have a great season if things come together.  Happy to answer any questions.   
 Q.  What's the ongoing message to the guys you have back this year and the newcomers coming in about how you take what you did last year in that special season and take it beyond or continue to play at that level?  
CHRIS BEARD: For us, it's year three building the program.  The first year we really wanted to lay the foundation and try to become part of the fight.  I will always be appreciative of that first team led by five special seniors.  We created a culture that first year and we were competitive.  Last year the second year we thought we were good enough to compete and ultimately win and we wanted to finish.  We won a lot of close games last year, resulted in us making it to the Elite Eight which is a special run.  Five guys graduating, four guys under professional contracts now.   
This third year what we're trying to do is become consistent.  We want to make sure that last year's success doesn't define us as a program.  We want to be part of the fight again.  It's easy to talk about and difficult to do especially in the big bevel but that's the challenge in front of us and, again, I have been pleased with our players.   
I think we embraced last season, no one can take that from us, but we don't spend too much time talking about it.  Each team is different, each season is different.  It's a different journey, led by four special seniors this year.  I think this team will make its own mark on college basketball.   
 Q.  Chris, obviously when a guy like Matt Mooney goes from a different league to this league.  What sort of role do you expect him to play for this team?  
CHRIS BEARD: Matt is special, simply stated he is a Big 12 player.  He did about all he could do at the mid-major level, played in a lot of high-quality games against high-major schools, had some good games against Big 12 schools.  He is about as dedicated of a player I've ever been around.  He's special.  He takes his craft serious on a day-to-day basis.  He could have gone anywhere in the country his graduate year in college basketball.  Personally I take a lot of responsibility and I appreciate Matt trusting his senior year to our program and we put him in every situation we can to be successful and he's returning the favor.  He's doing everything he can to help us be successful that we started the last two years.  There is nobody I would rather coach than Matt.  I have a lot of confidence in him.  He's a great teammate.  He has all the intangibles.  I think he's a pro.   
 Q.  You are one of the few guys who has had a lot of success everywhere you've been in a short period of time.  What's been the key element in what's been the one thing that's been consistent?  
CHRIS BEARD: Above all really good players.  This coaching thing is a little overrated.  I'm the same coach last year that I was years ago, but we had three NBA players and we make a nice run in college basketball and if it wasn't for a couple of injuries I think we would have competed for the championship in this league, that's just my opinion, not disrespecting the other schools.   
I have been fortunate and we've had good players everywhere we've been, this is a players game and also a great coaching staff.  This year is no different.  Every guy of on our staff is a future head coach.  It has never been about me.  It has been about great staff and great players.  We do have a process we believe in.  We believe in playing defense.  We believe in sharing the ball and having balance on offense.  We believe in respecting the game and playing it the right way.  This year's team we're off to a great start.  We're a work in progress.  We have a long ways to go.  We've practiced 20 times.  We have 10 left before our opener November 6th at 6:30, but I like this team that we're about to have.   
 Q.  How have you seen Jarrett embrace more of the spotlight?  Last year you mentioned him wanting to be that guy that takes the pressure off.  How have you seen him in his second season?  
CHRIS BEARD: I'm on the record proudly and confidently.  Jarrett Culver has a chance to be one of the best players in college basketball.  Others have seen that too.  He's starting to get attention, which I like for our players.  I think Jarrett would be the first to tell you that these things wouldn't have happened if we wouldn't have had the great NCAA Tournament, Elite Eight run last year.   
The great thing about Culver are the things that most people don't know.  Everybody sees the length and the athleticism, the talent.  But what I see is the love of the game.  Culver is old school in a lot of ways.  He loves basketball.  He's in there every day.  He's also a student of the game.  As a young player he watches more film than any guy I've ever coached.  He goes above and beyond.  Believe it or not I have a daughter in an Ivy League school, but I can't speak.  Culver goes above and beyond what's asked of him in the film room, popular guy in the locker room, Culver is special.   
THE MODERATOR: Coach, thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT