NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP: FINAL FOUR
April 4, 2019
Chris Beard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We'll ask Coach Beard to open it up with a few thoughts, and then we'll take questions.
CHRIS BEARD: First, I just want to, on behalf of everybody in our program, like our staff and our players and our coaches, just to recognize what a run tournament this is.  It's everything I thought of as a young coach coming up, what will the Final Four be like?
Everything is first class.  The NCAA has nailed this for the student-athlete experience, just what a great city too.  We're just enjoying everything about our time here.  So I just wanted to recognize that.
We're looking forward to playing on this stage.  In our opinion, Michigan State is one of the best teams in college basketball.  They have great players and a Hall of Fame coach.  We have nothing but respect for their program the things they stand for.  We're in our third year building the program at Tech, and we're striving to be in the conversation with the Michigan States of the world.
Simply stated, we feel like we'll have to play our best game of the year to have some success on Saturday night, but I don't think that's much difference than anybody else in this tournament.  That's our objective.  We're looking forward to the opportunity to play well on Saturday.
Q. No one-and-done players here at the tournament, obviously.  Duke and Kentucky are out, but there's a lot of talented college players and future pros, guys like Jarrett and De'Andre Hunter.  What have you seen in Jarrett's development from freshman to sophomore year, and does the fact that there are no one and dones here say anything larger about that way of recruiting?
CHRIS BEARD: We might have a couple of one-and-done graduate assistants.  We had a couple of issues with our breakfast this morning, so...
No, I think there's so many just beautiful things about college basketball, and certainly like we've had some great four-year players.  I thought Keenan Evans was the best player in the Big 12 last year, one of the best in the country, and helped us get to the Elite Eight.  So I think college basketball associates with those guys.  And then there's the iconic coaches in our game, like Coach Izzo, that kind of transcend any players.
But I've always seen the value in the one-and-done too.  I think college basketball is better because of Zhaire Smith playing at Texas Tech.  I think in this tournament, I would agree with that, there's some identities with these four teams.  I think that's what these four teams are, teams.
I've had a chance to watch Auburn and Virginia a lot, just by being a fan, and I've certainly watched every game that Michigan State has played to this point.  I think one thing these four teams have in common is I think they are teams.  The identity of each team, I think, is the balance of different players, not just one star player.
So I think this Final Four is great for college basketball and has a chance to be one of the best in terms of the three games played.
Q. Can you just take me through the first time, do you remember the first time you met Mark Adams and why you kind of targeted him on your staff with Little Rock?
CHRIS BEARD: Mark Adams isn't a national name, but those of us in Texas and especially in small college, junior college, Division II circles, recognize Coach as one of the best guys that ever did it in our part of the country.
My personal relationship started with Coach Adams when I was an assistant at Texas Tech, and he was living in Lubbock, coaching at Howard Junior College in Big Spring.  We just developed a friendship.  We'd talk basketball a lot.  He'd come to the Tech practices.  I'd go to his practices and recruit players for Howard.
And we were big movie guys.  I spent my whole career going to the late movie.  I'm that guy at the 10:30 movie where I'm the only person there, and I actually ran into Coach Adams a number of times.  It wasn't really about the movie.  It was about the release of turning your phone off and sit there for two hours.  Coach and I shared that.
We'd literally go to the movies two or three times a week together.  I got screwed every time.  I'm sure he'll tell some of you all different, but I had to pay for the tickets and concessions.  He would always tell me he forgot his wallet in the car and that kind of deal.
But Coach Adams has had success at every level.  He's been a head Division I coach, he's in several Hall of Fames in small college.  He's got a great defensive mind.  He thinks outside the box.  He doesn't let what happens in the game currently impact his thinking.
There's only a few guys in our game like that that can think of things that aren't already going on.  Most people in college basketball, I think, steal things from the NBA.  Coach Adams comes up with his own mind.
There's a lot of people that have the information in their mind, but what makes Coach Adams special is now he can communicate it to others, whether it be the staff or the players.  He's the most disciplined guy I've ever known, but he's also a players' coach.  He's one of the best coaches in college basketball, and I'm proud to stand on this stage and sit on this stage and talk about him.  People ask about Texas Tech defense and what's going on in Lubbock, Coach Mark Adams has a big part in what's going on.
Q. (Off microphone)?
CHRIS BEARD: So we normally go to the movies, and there might be three or four people there.  We sit next to each other because we talk basketball.  We got there one night, and we were going to go to the 10:35 show at the Cinemark 16.  It really didn't matter what movie it was, but the only movie left was "Sex and the City."  I remember kind of looking at him like, man, I don't know about this, Coach.  He looked around.  There's only three cars in the parking lot.  That's Bill who runs the place, and I think that car's been there for two weeks.  All right, let's go see "Sex and the City."
So this was the only time that we didn't sit right next to each other at the 10:35 movie.  So we thought we were good, but then right before the lights went down, about four or five other people walked in the movie theater.  Me and Coach, we felt a little insecure.  But I'm actually not against "Sex and the City."  I thought it was a great show.  Is it HBO?  My oldest daughter watched it, Carrie and Big.  My oldest daughter goes to Columbia University now, which is in the city, so we see some of the things.  So I'm not against "Sex and the City."  I'm just against going to the 10:35 movie with another friend of mine and watching "Sex and the City."
Q. You mentioned the Final Four and the amenities and all that, and I'm wondering if you could reflect on how far that is from Myrtle Beach and what you remember from your time there sort of in that coaching sojourn.
CHRIS BEARD: I tell the guys to never forget where they come from and be you, and certainly a part of my journey that's being documented now, and I'm proud of it.  I wouldn't trade my coaching path for anything.  Whether it be the junior college or ABA or small college, very, very blessed to be here and feel like I represent a lot of people on this stage that have coached at schools that are really good coaches that have coached great players and never had the chance under these lights.  I hope coaches around there find some satisfaction in this.
For that young coach out there like me that sat in the open practices for 22 years and dreamed about being there, don't give up.  Keep at it.  This game's bigger than any of us.  This game isn't about your predecessors.  It's basketball, man.  If you keep doing it, it will give you a chance at some point.  Don't give up.
Just a few years ago, I was in the ABA or D-II, and that's the special part about this.  I don't take that lightly.  I even talked to my team about it.  In terms of the difference of hotels, it's not just about those years, it's about when I was an assistant and you come to the Final Four and you don't have a room, and you just beg one of your buddies that's in Division I to crash on their floor.  I've been in a lot of rooms where it's two guys in each bed without the comforters because you got to more people on the floor with the comforters, and then one maybe in the bathroom bathtub with the pillows.  We put eight deep before in a Marriott Courtyard, I promise you.
The problem is in the mornings with the towel situation because I'm not really a big believer -- I guess I'll share a bar of soap if you wash it really good, but I'm not sharing a towel with any other man, you know.  But we used to come to the Final Fours and bring our own towels, true story.
Q. Along those lines, you have the message up in the locker room, smell the roses, for the guys.  It's clear I think you're doing that, but how do you let them do that, and then after this, get out there and shut that off since you're doing it a couple of days in a row?
CHRIS BEARD: This is what we've done all year.  This is who we are.  We have a process we believe in that includes a lot of things -- culture, academic piece, basketball, weight room, individuals, shooting, nutrition, fuel the body, study the game in the film room, embrace team practice, get extra shots up, faith, family, balance.
This is our process, and one of our processes has always been balance, enjoying life, like we never want to be the team that just doesn't enjoy a victory.  So we have a 12-hour rule.  We don't ever want to be the team that doesn't enjoy the great cities we get to go to.  This year we played Duke in Madison Square Garden.  We enjoyed New York City.  We went and played pickup at Rucker Park.  We ate ridiculously priced food.  We walked around the skulls of the Garden and see all the great performers that played there.  We're going to enjoy life.  We're going to enjoy the ride.  It's who we are.
But when it's time to play, it's time to play, and when it's time to practice, it's time to practice.  So we just got a two-part mission here.  Smell the roses but also be us, and be us is just four letters and two words to mean let's ride the bus that got us here.  Let's try to be disciplined and repaired.  Let's practice really hard today.  Let's get some shots up at night at some local high school gym.
I think you can do both.  As a young coach, I worked for some great guys, but I remember a couple times winning the big game, you get back on the bus, and it's like a morgue.  You know, like why don't we celebrate what we just did?
It takes a certain maturity to play for us because, as a player, we want to be able to have a relationship with you and enjoy life, but we want you to understand that we're here to win too, period, every game.  And this group has embraced that more than anything.  These seniors, I've had more fun with this team than any team ever, but also when it's time to go to war, we've done well.
Q. Coach, Tariq Owens began his career at Tennessee, coaching change, he goes to St. John's, likes that a lot, graduates, comes to your place.  You certainly -- it's well documented you've moved around a lot.  People seem to have an image that college basketball should be a freshman signs, plays four years, graduates, goes on with his life.  Do you think that that's not a realistic assumption and not a realistic way to look at college basketball?
CHRIS BEARD: I don't think that's the world we live in either.  Who of you have been at your current situation for year after year?  I mean, opportunity comes in different forms.  As coaches, we don't make the rules.  You've just got to learn how to succeed with them.  So the transfer rules, the grad transfer rule, that's really not up to me.  That's way over my head.  I just simply try to learn the rules and go compete in the world we're in.  A lot of times it's misleading.  Tariq was totally committed to Tennessee.  He had a coaching change.  And then at St. John's he'd earned his degree and was looking for another opportunity.
So I think each story is completely different.  I don't think you can say too many guys are transferring, this and that.  Each situation is different.  For Tariq, I'll tell you this, he showed a lot of loyalty.  Al Pinkins had coached Tariq at Tennessee, and Al was our connection to get Tariq once he declared he wanted to be a grad transfer.  After Tariq had made his decision to come to Tech or in the process, Al went to the University of Florida.  We hated to lose Al, but we understood the move for his own reasons.
So the first time I talked to Tariq, I said, Tariq, this is a relationship-based business.  I understand if you want to follow Al, if you want to open it back up, and Tariq said, no, I made a commitment to the program, and I'm going to come to Texas Tech.  So that's one example of many of Tariq's commitment.
Q. Coach, being around the Texas basketball circles, you probably have known or seen Matt McQuaid.  I don't know how much you saw him coming up through the ranks.  But can you kind of assess what you saw from him.  Also, with him and Aaron Henry on the wing, as a defensive minded coach, what do you guys see as a challenge?
CHRIS BEARD: McQuaid is special.  He's gotten better over his college career, which is a direct relationship with the Michigan State program, and their players develop.  If they get a 5 star, he's a 5 1/2 star six months later, and if Coach gets a 4 star, they're in the NBA two years later.  Michigan State players get better.  The player development, although I haven't had the opportunity or pleasure to go watch what they do on a day-to-day basis, you don't have to.  Guys are getting better.  He's a great example of that.  Being a Texas kid, I'm happy for him.  I pull for all guys in our state.  His father is someone I know and respect.
He's turned himself into a great defensive player.  I think earlier in his year what might have been perceived as a weakness is now a strength.  He's very, very competitive.  He's got good foot speed, in my opinion.  He can contest shots.  He takes charges.  He's one of the best defenders I think I've seen all year on film.
I would echo that with their other perimeter players.  When you prepare for games, you get to know this team.  I feel like I know Michigan State more than anybody from the notes, the articles.  To me it starts with the Blue Ribbon magazine, and I get to games, then I make phone calls, and the journey continues, and I've still got two more days in the journey.
I would tell you that Cassius is a great defender too.  He picks and chooses possessions.  He's smart.  He plays all those minutes and stays out of foul trouble, but I think he's a very, very good defender and well at his position.
We have a lot of respect for all of their defensive players.  Their team defense speaks for itself.  We're going to have to play great offensively to score a basket.
Q. I'm curious, have you gotten a chance to communicate with Wes Flanigan and just kind of what it's like for both of you to be at a Final Four together?
CHRIS BEARD: Yeah, it's special.  Wes was our associate head coach on our Little Rock team.  I would not be here today if it wasn't for Wes Flanigan.  We've exchanged some texts, but we haven't seen each other, which is not surprising.  This facility is bigger than 25 Super Walmarts put together.  I hope I get a chance to see Wes and give him a hug and tell him how much he's meant to me.  So happy for Auburn's ride.
I did get a chance to talk to Coach Pearl a little bit when Wes was in the job interview process or negotiations, and that was not a hard phone call.  I just told Coach Pearl he's the best, one of the best I've ever worked with, and I'm glad it's worked out for both those guys.  To see Wes coaching on this stage where he belongs is special.  I have a lot of respect for Wes Flanigan.
Q. Chris, your players talk about you coach them hard and they like to be coached hard.  I'm just curious sort of how do you find that line of how hard to coach them in an era where not all players want to be coached that way?  And maybe some might take that the wrong way.
CHRIS BEARD: That line is really easy to find.  That line is called trust.  I've always said great players want a coach they can trust.  And basically what trust is is you keep your word.  You're very clear about what's going to happen and what your expectations are and what you're going to do and what they're going to do and what you're going to do together, and you keep your word.
Coaches are no different.  They want players we can trust.  Who's going to block out late in the game?  Who's going to go to class on Tuesday morning when you're tired?  Who's going to walk away when there's a bad call?  It's all about trust.  So with us, we feel like we have trust between our players.  How do you develop trust?  It's relationships.  The challenge in our teams, you know, is we're fighting time.  With Tariq and Matt, they're one-year players.  You've got to get that relationship quickly.  That's where I retreat in just our individual meetings and our culture and things play into this.
We make no bones about it.  We do coach our guys hard, but I've never coached a good player that didn't want to be coached hard ever.  I think about that all the time.  I can't name one guy that I've ever coached who's an All-Conference player, a pro at any level I've coached that didn't want us to bring it.
I don't promise our guys a lot in the recruiting process, but one thing I promise is, I look them right in the face, I will bring it every single day as a coach, and our staff will too.  If there's one day where you don't think we're bringing it, you tell me, and the problem will be corrected.  I asked this team just the other night, did we keep our word?  And they said, yes, you did.
I love coaching this game, and I love coaching it hard.  In terms of Michigan State, he's the pinnacle of that.  Coach Izzo, to me, is everything I've always wanted to be.  He's a players' coach.  You see the hugs and he gets you emotional.  These guys like Magic come back.  He's a players' coach.  I don't know Coach Izzo, but there's no doubt about it.  But he coaches his players hard.  He's on them.  He holds them accountable.  How do these things happen?  It's trust.  It's all about relationships.  I would think that's what we're building at Texas Tech as well.
Q. Coach, last year we were sitting here with Villanova talking about how you have to make threes to win big in college basketball.  This year three -- at least three of the teams here are big on defense.  I just wanted to know why did you choose that defense to be kind of the personality of your team?  Was it a personality thing, or was it just the easiest way to win or both?
CHRIS BEARD: It's just me.  Like I grew up in Irving, Texas, and we played two places, Northwest Park and Conflans Park.  You get there Saturday morning and 25 people, and I was never the guy who would get picked.  My chance to play, it's my game, and I wait.  Then when it's my turn, I try to pick the best four players -- actually the best team, the guys that could help us win, because if I lose, I'm done.  So to win on that park, you got to play defense.  You can't win on a foul either.  So we foul a lot at the last possession.  Doesn't work at this level.
Then myself as a player, I was a guy who understood I had to play defense.  My high school coach, Mike Kunstadt, who's a Texas legend, he's enjoyed the Final Four experience.  Someone interviewed him the other day, and he was on the news, and my daughter showed me.  I don't watch a lot of stuff this time of year, but my I do watch what my daughters put in front of me.  Coach Kunstadt is on the live news in Dallas, and they're about to talk about my career.  I know you guys don't know much about my playing career.  So I'm like, man, this is the chance.  Coach is going to say something about that 25-point game or this or that.  He said, Chris was a good player.  One time against South Grand Prairie he took five charges in a game.  That was my claim to fame in Coach's eyes.
Certainly, with Danny Kaspar, my first job, and Tom Penders, a defensive coach in terms of traps and speeding you up.  And Coach Knight, one of the best defensive coaches in the history of our game, it's just been my upbringing in basketball as a player and coach.  It's just who you are.  It's in our DNA.  It's our identity.  And we'll never change.  We've always been a team that tries to guard.
Q. Just you saw us talking to Gerald Myers out there.  Have you seen him enjoy this ride, and what does it mean to you?
CHRIS BEARD: It means everything, and, yes, I have seen it, and I'm smelling the roses on that one too.  Coach Myers is a legend in Lubbock, Texas.  He was a great player at Texas Tech.  He was a championship coach.  He was an athletic director that got Texas Tech into the Big 12 and all the benefits of today.  And then he's been just a great friend.
They always say the retired coach, is he going to get in your huddle, or is he going to try to make -- Coach is perfect.  He's the perfect balance.  He comes to practice, but I've never felt one inch of him making anybody feel uncomfortable.  It's been a special friendship.  It's one of the top things that's happened to me in my time back at Lubbock is my relationship with Coach Myers.  I'm so appreciative of him, everything he did before he even knew me, and everything he continues to do.
As a kid growing up in Dallas, I only had a chance to go to one basketball camp because the rules in Texas at the time is you couldn't go to camp after you played varsity basketball.  I was in eighth or ninth grade, and I had one chance to go to camp.  The camp I chose was Texas Tech.  I had never been to Lubbock before, but they ran an ad in the Irving Daily News, and I saw it.  Saved my money and got on a Southwest Airlines flight and went to Lubbock.  That was the first time I got a chance to meet Coach Myers.  I won the hot shot camp, and they ran out of trophies.  I was so pissed off, I wrote letters.  There was no Internet, and long distance phone calls were about 60 cents a minute.  I wrote a bunch of letters to the Texas Tech office saying where's my hot shot trophy, and I never got it.
Years later, I get the job with Coach Knight.  It wasn't my place to ask about the trophy.  So I bit my tongue for ten more years.  Then I made my basketball run for five more years.  Years later when he I got the Texas Tech job, I asked Coach Myers where my trophy ask.
Finally when they announced as head coach, I shook a few hands and went to right to Coach and explained the story and said, I'm not pissed off.  I'm kind of upset.  30-something years I still hadn't gotten my trophy.  We all laughed about it.  Story over?  No.  Coach comes to my office, and he has my 1980 hot shot trophy from the Gerald Myers Basketball Camp.  Gerald Myers -- truth teller, real guy, and will admit when he made a mistake and didn't give me my trophy and paid me back years later.  That's Gerald Myers.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT