AL DIVISION SERIES: YANKEES v INDIANS
October 7, 2007
Eric Wedge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Are you still sticking with your pitching for the next couple of days?   
 ERIC WEDGE:  Yeah, yeah.  We're going to move forward just as we had planned.  Byrdie will be on the mound tomorrow, and we'll go from there.   
 You know, it's where we are.  We knew we were going to need four starters, if it went that far here in the series.  And that's where we're at.  That's what we're going to go with.   
  
  Q.  Was there any thought to pulling Jake in that fifth?  What was your thinking, you know?   
 ERIC WEDGE:  Well, one thing about Jake, he can always put the ball on the ground.  When you get yourself in a situation to where you can be efficient and get an out or get a couple outs with one pitch, especially with a guy in that situation that, you know, is very capable of working through situations and such.  You know, you stick with them.   
 He got a ball up to Damon, and Johnny did a good job with it.  It's really what happened prior to that where we could have done a little bit better job of controlling damage.   
  
  Q.  Could you talk a little bit about Phil Hughes' performance.   
 ERIC WEDGE:  I tell you what, he was huge for them.  I mean, Roger's got a lot of guts.  He always has.  He was trying to tough it out out there, and I think he took it about as far as he could go.  But that kid, Hughes, came in, and he's got a live fastball, tough breaking ball, started mixing in a changeup a little bit.  Posada did a good job with him.   
 If you talk about the difference between Roger and him and just the way they pitch threw us off a little bit.  But the kid showed a lot of poise, he did a good job.   
  
  Q.  Do you think playing here made much difference being in Yankee Stadium?   
 ERIC WEDGE:  There's always a lot of excitement here.  Little bit more, obviously, in the playoffs, but same thing in our place.  I mean, it's that time of the year.  I think anywhere you play, it's going to get loud.  It's always going to be a little bit louder when the home team starts getting after it a little bit or puts something together.   
 I think our guys did a good job of handling it.  I don't think we played particularly well today.  I don't think we played particularly well.  We opened up some doors and gave them some opportunities.  Adding some miscues there that they really took advantage of.  I think that was the difference.   
  
  Q.  Victor's play at third, he just got excited?   
 ERIC WEDGE:  He got a little greedy.  Got a little greedy right there.  And it was a chance we could get him there on a bang-bang play.  But at that point in the game when we're up a couple of runs, we need to take the out at first base right there.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT