AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: INDIANS v RED SOX
October 21, 2007
Eric Wedge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  How quick of a decision did it have to be when Gutierrez got the single and Joel had to decide whether to send Lofton home or hold him up?   
 ERIC WEDGE:  Well, it's a tough corner out there when the ball heads down that way and ricochets off.  It's tough to read if it's ricocheting back to the shortstop or to left-center.  I think it was just a tough read for him.   
  
  Q.  Coincidental after that play they kind of take off, the double play is on the next ball.  Will you take that into the off-season with you?   
 ERIC WEDGE:  No, I mean, that's baseball.  That's usually so many different things that happen over the course of a season, and so many different things happen over the course of a baseball game.  Casey put a good swing on that next pitch, he just was out front a little bit.  I've said it before, any time you hit to that third baseman over there, the ball ends up in his glove.  He's one of the best in the game, I think.   
 Then they just kind of took off from there.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about the series and the way the Red Sox came back 3-1.   
 ERIC WEDGE:  Well, first of all, I want to congratulate the Boston Red Sox, Terry Francona and their staff and their organization obviously.  Any time you go to a seventh game in a series like this, you know it's a lot of back and forth.  We won three in a row, then they won three in a row.  We talked about it even prior to today's game because obviously the score was much closer than it wound up being, or the game was much closer than that.   
 You knew that whoever took advantage of opportunities, or if mistakes were made and they took advantage of opportunities, that was probably going to be the difference, and I think it probably was today.   
  
  Q.  As disappointing as the last three nights were, will there come a point where you can see this as part of a progression or growth for your club?   
 ERIC WEDGE:  Yeah, I already do.  It's not something I'm thinking about right now.  I felt that even prior to this series.  I'm disappointed obviously we weren't able to finish it off.  I'm proud as I could be of our players.  I've told them, it's been my honor and privilege to manage this baseball team.   
 The respect that they show for the game, what it means to be a great teammate, and how they play the game means more to me and to us as the Indians organization than anything, and those guys go out and do it that way and win on top of it.   
 We fell short, but I think we learned a great deal in this postseason.   
  
  Q.  Speaking of short, Dustin Pedroia, a little slow start but got going.  The big guys started early, some of their little guys, particularly Pedroia today, can you talk about Pedroia.   
 ERIC WEDGE:  He's had a terrific year.  He's got a lot of pop in his bat, he plays with a lot of energy.  Probably the type of guy that you don't like playing against but would love to have on your team.  And obviously he hurt us tonight.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT