SYBASE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SHOPRITE
May 18, 2008
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Morgan, great finish out there, season best for you. What was working for you and what came together on Sunday? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, today a 66 was about the worst that I could have shot, which is pretty scary because I really hit the ball the best that I've could have. I think I had two holes where I didn't have a birdie opportunity and one of them I chipped in. So I mean, a legitimate makable birdie opportunity. So that was encouraging. 
 I missed actually quite a few opportunities there, so you look back and you say right now it's only two shots, and it's frustrating. But 15 and 16 especially I missed a couple of really makable opportunities, but that happens.

 Q. Well, you really pushed up the leaderboard, tied for third right now. It's you season-best finish. What kind of confidence does that give you heading into the second major of the year soon?
 MORGAN PRESSEL: It definitely gives me a lot of confidence. My ball-striking is great and just a little bit of work on the putting like I've been doing. But my putting was pretty good all week. I gave myself a lot more opportunities today, so you're going to miss a few more.

 Q. Is that what turned it around for you? Obviously you've been struggling a little bit before this. 
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, for instance, yesterday my short game really saved me. I've realized I'm not the longest hitter out here and my short game really needs to be pretty stellar in order to compete. Today I didn't really need to rely on it that much, but yesterday and the first day I definitely did, and that was really what was holding me back, why I was struggling more in the past. 

 Q. Talk a little bit about your birdies, of which you had several. Any memorable ones? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, I birdied -- I had four birdies in five holes at one point. Yeah, on 7, 8, 10, 11, and chipped in for birdie on 11. I missed a short one on 15, a short one on 16. I missed birdie putts on the first four holes, a short one on 4. I don't think I had a par putt today more than a foot. I was really hitting the ball well and made the opportunities that I could.

 Q. Being so far behind Lorena to start, did you kind of just relax and say, I'm going to play golf today and not worry about catching her?
 MORGAN PRESSEL: I mean, you're six back, but I was joking with Mr. Chen on the first tee there that I was going for the course record today. I think he told me it was 62, and I probably could have had that today, but not this time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT