STANFORD INTERNATIONAL PRO-AM
April 22, 2008
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. (Question regarding tickets.)
 MORGAN PRESSEL: No, it's great. It's a lot fun. I've always enjoyed playing in front of my friends, I mean, even when we played the (indiscernible) down here at Lauderdale by the Sea I had a lot of people. And now with this new event in Aventura it's even closer. 
 My grandfather is in charge of (indiscernible), but I know it's a lot. He's going to be out there. It's always fun to play in front of people that you know and people who I play with at home. I'm sure they'll have a good time out here. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, I was starting to think that it was a bad one. I've been pretty lucky out here to be able to even play out here and do what I've always wanted to do since I was young without going to college and -- it's just, it's a treat for me. This is my goal: to be out here since I was really young. 
 So to be out here and playing and competing against the best players in the world and trying to be one of the best players in the world, it was really a no-brainer. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 MORGAN PRESSEL: I would tell her -- she's looking at colleges right now, and that's what I would recommend, definitely. Not that Madison is not a good player, but everybody is different. She's definitely a different person and a different player than I was when I was her age. She needs a little bit more experience than she has. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
MORGAN PRESSEL: No, I'm staying here. It's a beautiful resort here. Not too bad. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, I know he's got a list that he's got to send to will call. That I know. He's got a list of tickets. But I'm sure his phone rings every now and then with somebody saying, Hey, I want to come down to watch. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 MORGAN PRESSEL: (Indiscernible).

 Q. (No microphone.)
 MORGAN PRESSEL: It's okay. I've been struggling a bit this year. I haven't -- at the beginning of the year my putting was struggling, and in the middle of the year -- or not middle, but so far I guess, to put it into perspective, my ball striking was quite a bit off. 
 And last week was the first week that I really felt that I hit the ball pretty well and that my putting was better. I missed a few short putts, but my putting over five feet is better than it's been in a long time. 
 And Sunday I played probably one of the best rounds that I've played this year, and that's encouraging coming into this week. I'd like to play that way every day. It's just been a little bit more of a struggle than I had hoped for at the beginning of the year. But instead of starting out strong, I'm going finish strong, and I'll start with this tournament.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 MORGAN PRESSEL: I don't know. I just -- I know that from a young age I had great training. My grandfather gave me a great opportunity to work with my coach, Martin, to go travel around and play AJGA events which I think are phenomenal. (Indiscernible) how juniors play, and where you really get to test your skills, and then move on from there. 
 You know, it's all about opportunity and when you get chances to play whenever you can, and I had great opportunities as a kid. 

 Q. Everyone that comes in here will get Lorena Ochoa questions.
 CRISTIE KERR: Uh-huh. 

 Q. I know you played with her in the past. But this year has she stepped it up?
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, she's pretty good.

 Q. (No microphone.)
MORGAN PRESSEL: She hits the ball right away; she does. I played with her out at Kraft in the first two rounds, and she hits the ball so far it's no surprise that she plays so well, because the golf courses are so short for her. 
 Especially compared to me. I'm probably one of the shorter hitters out here, and I know that. It's something that I'm working on. But when you play with somebody like that, I mean, she just makes it look so easy because she (indiscernible) every hole. 
 The days when she plays really well, like I noticed at Kraft, the days when she is really on with here driver and the days when she's, eh, she's a couple under. But the days when she is really on she takes it deep. 

 Q. Is Lorena forcing players to figure out how to stay with her in length? Is that something that you're looking at to try to get closer to her?
 MORGAN PRESSEL: It's not looking at Lorena and saying, That's where I have to be. It's looking at the entire field and knowing that -- it's just basic math: if you can hit the ball further then you can play better. 
 But the tricky part is accuracy. So I think that I probably search for distance a little bit too hard this past off-season and I substituted a bit of accuracy and I'm working on that now in solid ball striking. We're kind of going back to that. If you don't hit the ball (indiscernible) is doesn't make a difference. 

 Q. (Question regarding Suzann.)
 MORGAN PRESSEL: I think she's a great player and she certainly hits the ball well, too. She's played well in the last couple of events. I played with her in Hawaii, and she an a great player. Nobody's ever questioned that. 
 There's Suzann and Paula and Annika and there's a lot of players that are really playing well. I need to move up and get back up there. 

 Q. You played last week at Ginn. How does the course here compare to the course at Reunion the way it was set up last week? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, I got to play that course last week four times, which was the most I had played it in three years. (Laughter) so that was a plus.
 But they're totally different golf courses. I mean, both of these golf courses are -- especially the (indiscernible) courses is pretty tricky, especially around the greens. There are some very subtle undulations that are going to be, I think, more difficult to read than you would think. 
 It's a good golf course. They're both-- they're a bit shorter than Ginn. Ginn plays a little bit longer. Has a few longer approach shots with a few shorter irons. It's just nice to hit for a change for me. 
 But, I mean, Ginn was a great course and these two courses here at Turnberry are nice as well. So it's nice that we're playing some better golf courses.

 Q. I hear you're a huge American Idol fan. Pick a winner this year. 
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Oh, boy, I look Dave Cook. I'll go with Dave Cook because I like his style. I like his sound. The little kids like Dave Archuleta, but don't know if he can -- I don't know if he can -- I think it's between the two of them. That's the finale.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 MORGAN PRESSEL: I don't watch TV. Only American Idol.

 Q. We have a Pro-Am format at this tournament. What is probably the most common mistake you see the amateurs making when they play in Pro-Ams?
 MORGAN PRESSEL: (Indiscernible) Pro-Am partner, but from what I've heard I'm pretty good. The biggest mistake is probably people trying to swing too hard. I mean, not so much this week because it's a little different with the score counting and a bit more -- -I mean, people will get upset over shots that you know that if they hit -- stopped counting their score they would be perfectly happy with that. 
 So you say, Look, you hit a great shot. Don't complain that it's ten feet instead of two feet. But just people swinging too hard. 
 (Indiscernible) and really well, because change is always a good thing. 

 Q. Talking about the course again, does the way this course is designed and/or setup, does that play to any strength, not necessary player?
 MORGAN PRESSEL: I think that reading greens and putting is going to be very important on this golf course. The fairways aren't terribly narrow and the greens aren't that tight, but you're going to have to be able to get the ball into the hole, for sure. 
 Like I said, with the slight undulations and the greens that are kind of difficult to see. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah. Depends on what the amateur wants. If they want the help or if they don't. It's all up to them.

 Q. Your experience on Wednesday --
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, Wednesday you normally read the putts. But I don't know how (indiscernible). 

 Q. You've been on tour what, ten years now?
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Thank you. Do I look that old already? 

 Q. I'm just wondering, from your perspective, what do you think has gone better for you than you expected, and what have you struggled with more? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL: That's an interesting question. I don't know. What has gone better than expected? I don't really know. I never really, I guess, went into it trying to (indiscernible) I went into it trying to improve and trying to compete. 
 Last year I had a pretty decent year. This year has just been a bit more of a struggle. But I think it is a wake-up call for me saying, Look, work harder. So, I mean, I think that you just realize out here how difficult it is to play and compete, and if you don't -- if you don't continue to work hard there's going to be 100 other girls working harder than you because they all want to beat you, too. 
 You just really have to continue to be on top of your game. There's never a time when you can really slack off. Maybe I took a little bit -- took it a little bit too casually. I had a lot going on this off-season. Not on purpose, but just through sponsor relations and through media and everything else. You realize that the most important thing is your golf game and everything else comes second. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT