KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 3, 2008
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. One under. 
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, the course is not playing that difficult, so certainly made a lot of mistakes out there, but I hit five greens, so when you look at the fact I hit five greens, one under sounds pretty good. Hit some more solid shots the next couple days and have some more birdie opportunities.

 Q. Did you feel any more pressure out there being the person defending the tournament? Did it feel any different?
 MORGAN PRESSEL: No, I felt more confident, knowing that I have played well here, and I hope I can do it again, play a little bit better the next couple days.

 Q. Any holes where the wind really played a factor?
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, there were a couple holes, the par 3, 5, the wind really gusted up there, especially on the front nine here, it certainly started to pick up more than it did on the back, and it makes you think a little bit more about every shot, and the pace of play was pretty slow, you could probably tell, sometimes by the wind, sometimes waiting for a ruling, hard to get a rhythm there in the middle of the round.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
MORGAN PRESSEL: No, I hit a good shot, it just got up into the wind, so ended up short.

 Q. (Inaudible). 
 MORGAN PRESSEL: I was in the fringe probably about five times, but I hit five greens, and one of them was 8, so I go, "Look, I am on the green six feet from the pin," you know, but yeah. 

 Q. More frustration about not hitting any greens or not --
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, a little bit. I was actually over my chip on 4, and I was thinking (inaudible) but I had only hit three greens up to then.

 Q. You thought about this?
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah. 

 Q. (Inaudible). 
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, I mean, I hit some good shots on the fringe, but I hit some bad shots, on 5, I hit some bad shots on 3, shots like that that kind of got away from me, and a couple of them ran just through the green on 13 and 7 and 6.

 Q. 13 and 7? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL: (Inaudible).

 Q. Morgan, obviously Annikia (inaudible). Now it seems like Lorena is the player. 
 MORGAN PRESSEL: It's great playing with her, you can learn a lot from the way that she plays. I just wish I hit the ball that far. There was one hole, she was a good 60, 70 yards past me, I was like, "Oh, where did that come from?" 

 Q. (Inaudible). 
 MORGAN PRESSEL: No, no one figures. So it's fun to watch. She is a great player. She didn't play as well today, but as well as she played, she certainly could have played better, that's the scary part.

 Q. You played Brittany or (inaudible). How hard is that to play within yourself and not try and --
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Just I mean, I know how to play my game and I got to hit fairways and greens. I didn't hit the greens today, but I hit the fairways, and I was trying not to really hit anything -- the shots that were outside of my round, so I didn't try to go after anything harder than I normally would. I have got my game and she has got hers. Hers just happens to be a bit longer than mine.

 Q. (Inaudible). 
 MORGAN PRESSEL: I would like longer. It's tough to compete out here when I am hitting 3-woods into greens. But another maybe 10, 15 yards is what I am always looking for, but it's easier to have a 9-iron into the green than a 7-iron rather than a 3-wood.

 Q. (Inaudible) but can you look at someone like Lorena, who is about your size, if not smaller, and figure out what she knows?
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah. She has got very risky swing, a lot of lag, her speed is from all the wrist that she hits, and that's what I have been -- things that I have been working on in my game to try and accomplish that, and I have been working out using -- trying to use some more of my core through the ball. My hips are overactive, nothing works in sync, and that's why I don't hit the ball, so there it is.

 Q. As much as Lorena (inaudible) Annika -- she started out well. Can Annika get right back in the game? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL: She is definitely played well. She played well in Hawaii, and Singapore, for sure, and I am sure she is going to play well today. I don't know how she played today.

 Q. 1 under. 
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, I mean, that's right in there. I mean, I wouldn't count anybody out, especially not her. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT