ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 2007
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Tough day, obviously meant a lot to you? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Oh, of course.  I mean, playing at home, being in front of my friends, I'm a little disappointed.  But that's golf, it happens. 

 Q.  Did your putting make a big difference today? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  No, ball-striking was a big difference.  I don't even know, I probably barely hit six greens.  I never had opportunities to make birdies.  You know, this is a golf course where if you hit plenty of greens you get a lot of opportunities, but obviously I felt like I was chipping on every hole. 

 Q.  What happened on the par-3? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I three-putted from about ten feet.  That wasn't very good. 

 Q.  Especially after yesterday was it surprising, shocking how the ball-striking just seemed to turn around on you like that? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Shocking, no.  It's not the first time it's happened and I'm sure it won't be the last.  That's golf.  Yesterday it just seemed like everything was on, and today it just seemed like everything was a little off. 

 Q.  First hole you did so well. 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  No, I didn't do so well, I got lucky, we'll put it that way. 

 Q.  Cristie was telling us the story about you guys' trip out here from Vegas and the catering was late so you waited and waited, then got off and went inside the terminal and then the light came on.  Can you kind of give us the play by play, the way you remember it? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Seems like you know it pretty well. 

 Q.  I want to make sure I've got it right because it's pretty unbelievable. 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  We were inside and trying to get food so we could take off.  We weren't waiting on the catering anymore.  My caddie texted me and said, oh, there's a problem with the plane, we're all getting off.  We said, "What?"  We thought it was some joke, but then they kind of said this plane is not taking off. 

 Q.  Did they tell you why? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I guess there was hot air coming out of the air vents.  They couldn't get the plane to cool down.  And then they said that the same unit that controls that also controls pressurization in the air.  So we said, okay, okay, we'll stay. 

 Q.  How scary is that when you get on the next plane? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Oh, it's okay.  At this point I've flown enough. 

 Q.  Was this one of those smaller private eight-seater jobs? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  It was a G3. 

 Q.  Was that one of those where you had to wait for that one specifically to get fixed? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  No, they sent another one, but they just weren't able to send another one until the morning. 

 Q.  Have you thought about the irony of the scoring and how it worked for you last year and how it worked against you this year? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  There's really not much to say.  I just didn't play well enough today. 

 Q.  How will you look back on the season? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  That's a hard question.  It's kind of sad to think the season is over. 

 Q.  You did get your first major. 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  It was a season of ups and downs and it's sad that it's over and it's sad that it's ending this way.  I know what I have to work on. 

 Q.  What do you look forward to for '08? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Getting better, improving, winning more tournaments.  I have a lot of goals.  I'm sad that the season is over but I'm kind of excited because I need some time to work on my game. 

 Q.  What are you going to do with that time off? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I'm going to rest a little bit, but I'm going to spend a lot of time working on my game because I -- 

 Q.  Will you get away for a week or so and then start working or just keep going? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Well, I've got a couple of sponsor appearances that I have to do the next couple weeks.  We have a trip up to the White House with the Solheim Cup team, which will be fun.  We have some things planned, a trip to Australia.  But after Australia I'll start working again. 

 Q.  Do you ever relax? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I mean, this is relaxing, hitting balls.  This is my home course out here, so just sitting out on this range, it's not too shabby.  I'm just looking forward to getting some good practice time in. 

 Q.  Will this be your first trip to the White House? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Yeah. 

 Q.  Are you looking forward to that? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Yeah, it'll be fun, especially with my friends on the Solheim Cup team going up.  It'll be a great time. 

 Q.  You're going to meet with George Bush? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Uh-huh, from what I understand. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT