ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 2007
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  You had a great round of 7-under par, leading the field right now.  What does that mean to shoot that low and put a good score on the scorecard heading into tomorrow? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Yeah, I was thinking about that, walking up the last few holes, whereas last year I was in a playoff and I was a little bummed that the scores weren't cleared.  This year I'm kind of bummed that the scores are being cleared, so it's kind of both ways.  But as long as I shoot a couple more 65s I think I'll do pretty well. 

 Q.  Can we go over your scorecard quick? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Uh-huh.  3, birdie, I was just short of the green in two and I chipped up to about three feet. 
 4, 7-iron to two feet. 

 Q.  What was it like for you out there today?  Obviously things were really working for you. 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Yeah, they were.  Everything just kind of jelled today.  I hit the ball really solid and I gave myself plenty of birdie opportunities and I putted better than I can ever remember putting, so that's kind of nice. 

 Q.  Did you check the board at all?  Did you know where you were? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Oh, yeah, I look at the board.  It's nice to -- I just like to know I have a little cushion and I can just play golf. 

 Q.  How great a feeling going into this weekend is it? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Well, I'm happy.  This is the best I've played in a very long time, all around, for my game.  So I'm pretty happy about that, so we'll see how -- you never know what's going to happen tomorrow.  At least I can go into the off-season knowing I at least played well. 

 Q.  How different were the conditions out there today versus yesterday? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Well, they were different.  It was a little bit more difficult.  I had to pay more attention on every shot to the wind and allow for more.  I hit a hybrid on 16 probably barely 145 yards.  You know, you've just got to play for that, and it just takes a little bit more thought out there. 

 Q.  After making the cut, how much more pressure do you feel to try to maybe be more aggressive tomorrow with less players out there? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Well, I don't know what the weather is going to be like tomorrow, but I don't think it'll probably be too different from today.  It's usually pretty windy out here.  I'll just post a good score tomorrow and see where it puts me. 

 Q.  Is it comfortable being a hometown favorite, or does it add to the pressure at all? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Well, actually Paula and I were talking about that this morning because I played with her when she played in Danville, which is right outside of her hometown.  You know, it's tough playing in front of your friends and your family.  It's fun, it's great, I love doing it.  But it's also hard because they're all cheering for you so hard and they want to see you do well. 

 Q.  Does it seem odd to be perhaps the 36-hole leader and that's basically good for T16? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Yeah, because basically it doesn't do you much.  It just gives me confidence. 

 Q.  Does it do anything for you at all? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Yeah, personally I haven't played that well lately, and today it just all came together, so that gives me a lot of momentum going into this weekend, even though we all start back at zero tomorrow. 

 Q.  Who do you think has more momentum, you for what you've done for two days or someone like whoever wins the playoff knowing they were dead and then all of a sudden they're tied for the lead? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Well, I'd say for me personally, I think that playing well going into the weekend is a little bit better than knowing that you were on the bottom and you barely -- but it's also a breath of fresh air.  I mean, you know, either way we're still out playing for the same thing tomorrow. 

 Q.  You're still playing. 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Still playing, still here. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT