THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 16, 2007
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Morgan.  How special is the Solheim cup win against the Europeans? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  It's tremendous.  I was sitting on the couch last night and Betsy had the pairings in her hand.  I just have this feeling, I was like, "I feel like I'm going to be playing Annika."  I looked at the list.  It said "Annika."  I was like, "Wow." 
 Just -- I was really pumped after playing this morning, and we didn't really -- they got us by a little bit this morning, but I came out this afternoon, played a lot better and made birdies when I needed to. 

 Q.  You played inspired golf.  Pressure didn't get to you at all? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I missed a couple shots.  I tried to stay patient and just trust my game. 

 Q.  Lovely.  Morgan, what do you have to do to win a match like this?  It's head-to-head.  She's done a few of these.  You're relatively inexperienced in Solheim Cup play, but you held tough. 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I expected her to win the last hole.  My caddie was saying that's why she's No. 1 in the world for a very long time. 

 Q.  Morgan, this appears to be a very satisfying win for you today.  How does it feel to put the team in good shape and to be where you are right now? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Well, definitely.  I was watching the leaderboard a little bit today, and I saw a red, but coming off 15 I saw the leaderboard and said, "This is a really important point, my point."  I thought it was going to be a little more important than it ended up being. 

 Q.  Did you feel like you had control of the match all day? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I got off to a little bit of a rough start.  I missed a short little putt on 4.  But I was back there well on 5. 

 Q.  Do you have a lot of experience playing match play? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I have quite a bit.  Not a ton, but I have a little bit.  I think that's helped tremendously. 

 Q.  Satisfying to be a big part of a 1-pointer. 
 Annika, was there anything that fell short for her? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I'm sure she didn't putt as well as she would like to.  I played really well. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT