LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
August 29, 2007
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Morgan, thank you for coming in.  With Solheim Cup in just a few weeks, talk about playing going in and your preparation for that.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  My experience in amateur golf, playing in a competition similar to it is going to help, somewhat, any time you can play a team event like that, a little extra best-ball, alternate-shot, things like that, it's going to help.  But I don't think that it can help prepare you for the pressure or anything like that.  It's going to be totally different.   
  
  Q.  You know, knowing you were probably going to maybe make the team, have you already talked to a lot of -- the Juli Inksters, that type of thing, about what to expect or do you feel like some of it is just going to have to be something you learn yourself as far as dealing with the pressure and stuff?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Well, I know that as a team we have talked a lot about what to expect, especially going overseas and things like that.   
 But, you know, I've never been there, so people can only tell me so much without having experienced it myself.   
  
  Q.  You won the Kraft Nabisco earlier this year.  How big was that; a, it was a major first and foremost, how big was that for you?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Oh, it was very exciting.  It was a great week.  I felt like it was nice to come out on top and as a major, it just adds that extra level to the event.  I mean, you know, when you're out here playing to win and having turned pro right out of high school and worked really hard to win an event pretty short -- soon into my career is very exciting.   
  
  Q.  This tournament where it falls, Portland, long trip here, Solheim coming up.  Some Solheim players are here and some aren't.  Did Betsy leave it up to the individual or did she say, "I would like you ladies to play here or play in Arkansas," or did they totally leave it up to you?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  No, it's up to us.  Whoever feels like they would be best prepared going into Solheim -- playing three weeks on and then one week off and then Solheim and Paula took two weeks off.  I think there's only three of us that are not playing next week.  So I guess a lot of people that feel playing in going into Solheim is better for them.   
 Personal preference, so I just think she wants us to play our best.  So however we think that we can accomplish that.   
  
  Q.  This course, did you play 18 yesterday?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Mm-hmm.   
  
  Q.  Just general impressions.  A lot of players said the ball is really rolling out there and there could be some low scores?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I definitely agree.  It's there.  There could be have very low scores.  Hopefully one of them will be fine, or a few of them.   
 We don't usually play golf courses that are this dry, so it's a little bit different.  But the greens are still pretty receptive.  You know, it's a good golf course but it's definitely susceptible to some low scores.   
  
  Q.  Players always came to the rail knowing that you have to be aggressive; given the conditions is it going to be the same mentality pretty much?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Definitely.  Definitely got to be aggressive.   
  
  Q.  Just in recent weeks, how do you feel you've played in terms of what's been going well, what hasn't been going so well?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  It's been a little bit of a mix.  I think that I've been working a lot on my putting and I think that it's getting better.  I still have my better days.  And I mean, one of the most important things is just hitting my irons solid and getting them as close to the pin as I can.  The days I hit them really solid I'm going to play well.  The days where I'm a little off, it's been more of a struggle.   
  
  Q.  This is your second kind of like full-time year on the Tour.  Have you gotten, in terms of the -- you did a lot of traveling before.  But the week-to-week travel and kind of knowing when to take a break, have you kind of grown into that now?  It seems like rookies say that's always the biggest learning experience, knowing when to take time off?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I think that was one of the things from last year that I really needed to look at the schedule and maybe do a better job of scheduling.  After this year I still think I can probably do a better job of that and I think it's just a constant learning experience of how many weeks can you play.  It's not how many weeks can you play, because I could probably play every week.  But it's how many weeks can you effectively play where you can play your best and feel that you're really on top of your game.   
  
  Q.  I think you have a new agreement, sponsorship agreement with Kapalua, Hawaii, correct?  How did that come about?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Well, this year before the two Hawaii events, I went out to Kapalua just for vacation and met up with Gary Planos, who I played a little bit of golf with out at Kapalua.  I sent him a thank-you note and just said, you know, if you're interested in any female representation, I'm here.  And he wrote back and said, yeah, we're definitely interested.   
 So that's really exciting.  I love it out there at Kapalua.  It's absolutely beautiful.  And the fact that we're going to have an LPGA there in 2008 is going to be pretty exciting.   
  
  Q.  I mean, other than obviously playing out there, Tour events, how often would you be out there, just occasional trips out there or whatever?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  A couple times a year, yeah.   
  
  Q.  Does Hale Irwin still have any association?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Mm-hmm.   
  
  Q.  You're familiar, he designed this course --   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Hold on one second -- no, he doesn't.   
  
  Q.  At one time he did.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Up until a few months ago he was, I'm not sure.   
  
  Q.  I guess he designed this course, Panther Creek.  He's from St. Louis originally.  Now, your schedule, you're taking Arkansas off or are you playing next week?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I'm not playing next week.   
  
  Q.  And after Solheim, ADT, that's down the road.  What's the rest of your schedule look like for this year?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I'm going to play everything except for the Mizuno in Japan.  Going to play out the rest of the schedule.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Morgan, thanks for your time.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT