CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2007
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Two days in a row making a charge.  Is it going to be enough do you think? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I don't know, I doubt it, but at least I played a little better, so that makes me feel a little bit better.  I played a lot better than yesterday, even though I didn't score any better.  I'm just working on my game out here this week. 

 Q.  What's been the change versus say the first two days of the tournament? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Well, actually there wasn't much change between the first and second day, I just kind of managed to get it in the hole a little bit better.  But today I really hit the ball a lot closer, had a lot more birdie opportunities.  I just didn't make enough putts.  At least I'm hitting it closer.  It's a start. 

 Q.  With conditions out there, is somebody going to throw a really low score up? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  You know, the greens are a little bit softer today, so it's possible.  I guess we'll have to wait and see.  There have been some pretty good scores.  A few people are out there playing well.  I got off to a hot start, just kind of let it get away from me a little bit.  But it's out there, I guess, yeah. 

 Q.  Back-to-back bogeys there on the front nine.  What happened? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I just didn't hit a very good chip on 5 and just missed a dumb putt on 6 basically.  Just let it get away from me, probably a little bit emotionally more than anything. 

 Q.  Golfers seem to be having trouble reading the greens.  What do you find on the greens out there? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  They're tough.  Sometimes they don't break and then sometimes you play for a little bit less break than it would look, and then it dives.  So it's a little bit of a guessing game, but that's what reading greens is.  They're okay, they're pretty true.  They roll well. 

 Q.  There are some sneaky pin placements today? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  There are.  There are a few tough pins.  There's a pretty big backup on 18 there.  But they can tuck pins here, definitely.  There are some good spots. 

 Q.  Do you need to be aggressive tomorrow? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Yeah, I have nothing to lose, so I'll go out and fire for some birdies. 

 Q.  Are you still hoping for a Top-10 finish? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Obviously I'm going to shoot as low as I can go.  I'm going to play as aggressive as I can.  I'm going to make as many birdies as I can. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT