U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2007
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Morgan Pressel, a score of 1-under par 70 today, you are at 1-under par for the championship.  I was wondering, it's been, what, six years since you played here last time, you obviously have a much better game than you did at that time.  How do you approach this course differently than you did when you were 13 years old? 
  MORGAN PRESSEL: I approach the whole championship with the mentality to win, which is a lot different than I had when I was here before. And I was just kind of out here just playing golf. And here I'm out here just really focusing on each shot and knowing how important each shot really is. And I played pretty well today. 

 Q.  Did you ever think at that time, could you have dreamt that you would be standing here not that far off the lead? 
  MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, that was my dream. So it's pretty cool to be here. And only in six years really. Really accomplishing things that not many people get to accomplish. 

 Q.  Did you play any holes yesterday? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  No.  No golf. 

 Q.  What was it like waiting out, sitting out a day? 
  MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, kind of happy that I told my caddie that I wanted to come out a little early just in case that I wouldn't get much of a chance to warm-up and I certainly didn't. I barely got probably an hour of time to hit on the range and hit a few putts and that was it. But other than that, I thought I was going to be out here until 8:30, so to be able to eat dinner at 6 last night wasn't too bad. 

 Q.  I must say, you've come a long way certainly in your golf game, but you also seem a lot more calm than you ever have before.  You seem at peace with your self, with your career, your golf.  Is that true? 
  MORGAN PRESSEL: At times. Yeah, I'm just, this is I think just something that I've learned with experience that this is, especially this tournament is just a championship of patience. 



 So you can't really -- like yesterday with all the delays that we had, you can't really worry too much about it, just hang around and have a good time and be ready to play and not get too far ahead of yourself. 

 Q.  On 18 you had the fairway out of the bag, up on the rough, obviously the lie wasn't very good.  Were you frustrated by not having a chance to go for it, because it seemed like after that -- 
  MORGAN PRESSEL: No, I was just frustrated with the tee shot. I didn't really think that I was going to get a hybrid on it, but I wanted to test it out and see and it was really thick and I just hit a horrible tee shot. 

 Q.  What did you hit? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  8-iron. 

 Q.  Can you just sum up the round today? 
  MORGAN PRESSEL: It was pretty steady. I would say that I just hit two, I hit one bad shot, one tee shot on 18 and I had one stupid play on 15. And other than that, I felt that I hit the ball pretty well. 



 I didn't really give myself -- I didn't really have too many opportunities to mess up out there and I certainly had more birdie opportunities that I could have converted. 

 Q.  Was that bunker shot on 15, was it a bad lie, what happened there? 
  MORGAN PRESSEL: It was just that's probably one of the hardest shots in golf is a full wedge out of a bunker. A full gap wedge. 

 Q.  How far was it? 
  MORGAN PRESSEL: I don't even know, 80 yards, something like that. I had to hit a full lob wedge and it's a really tough shot. And obviously I didn't execute it very well. But I shouldn't have been in that bunker in the first place. 

 Q.  If you had your choice, would you prefer to get some of the third round in later today or were you prefer to make it a marathon day tomorrow? 
  MORGAN PRESSEL: Whatever. It doesn't matter. Whatever happens. We still got to come out and play another 36 holes to finish the championship anyway, so it doesn't really matter. I'm just kind of happy that I don't have to wait around for a little bit. That I can maybe go home, take a shower and come out later in the afternoon. 

 Q.  Your ankle is okay? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Yeah, it's fine. 

 Q.  Is it not ironic a little bit that you played with the defending champion who is probably going home and now you're close to the lead? 
  MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, I'm sure she's upset and she didn't really have a great day yesterday, but she played well today, she played better, and she was joking when she made a birdie on five she was like, "I forgot what that felt like to make a birdie." 



 And she was really positive.  She just said you're in a great spot, just stay patient and to get words like that from such a great champion is very nice. 

 Q.  That play on 15 was that into the bunker or out of the bunker? 
  MORGAN PRESSEL: Into the bunker. The way that fairway is, it's just tough and I couldn't carry the right bunker, but I could get to the left bunker and I probably should have just hit maybe a 7-wood instead of trying to hit a 3-wood, so that I would have stayed short of the left bunker, just because I wasn't, I just wasn't feeling it. Because the lie with the 3-wood wasn't probably the best choice. But these are things you learn. 

 Q.  Did you notice at all that Annika might have been in pain with her injury?  Did you notice that she was affected in any way by that? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Oh, no.  No. 

 Q.  Did you, that putt, the par putt on 15, it looked like, did it hit the cup and go out your par putt on 15? 
  MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, it hit the hole. Good thing, because it was probably going a little too far by. 

 Q.  How was 15 this year as a par-5 compared to a par-4? 
  MORGAN PRESSEL: I remember it was probably one of the hardest par-4s out here. But it's a good par-5 too. It just changes things up a bit. 

 Q.  Is 10 a better par-5 with the green moved back now? 
  MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, 10's a tough, especially where they had the pin today, you can't really get too aggressive with it in the back left and it's a good hole because you can't really risk going over that bunker in the left. Nobody can really carry it and it's pretty hard to get home in 2. 

 Q.  You get so accustomed to U.S. Opens being you have to fight the course to a stalemate and that's pretty good, but this one seems a little more playable out there? 
  MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, it's still, it's not really firm and fast, just because we have kind of had a little bit of rain here and there and it's been a little damp, but the course is still tough. And so I'm still right in there and I'm at 1-under, so. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT