HUGEL-AIR PREMIA LA OPEN
April 27, 2019
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nice round for you.  How did you feel coming off the golf course?
MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, I felt like I played okay today.  I gave myself a lot of chances.  Really burned quite a few edges.  I would say would've liked to make a few more putts.
You know, it's just tough to be aggressive on a lot of these putts out here, even when you're uphill.  You don't want to be left with a downhiller coming back, especially late in the day; poa can get a little bit bumpy.
I would say probably wasn't as aggressive as I could have been on my putts, but also, don't want to take it to the other extreme.
Q. So you did not play your way out of it either.  You're right in it.
MORGAN PRESSEL: No, I hit a lot of good shots today.  Hit quite a few greens, I think.  Quite a few just on the fringe.  Played a couple holes, maybe one hole poorly.  11, I really struggle on that hole.  Got away with a bogey and was able to give myself more birdie opportunities coming down the stretch.
Q. Second straight year of success here at Wilshire.  What makes you comfortable here?
MORGAN PRESSEL: I don't know.  I love this golf course.  I like that you really have to think your way around, hit good shots, have a good short game.  Really makes you think.  Makes you hit lots of different shots, a lot of different clubs in your bag.
Yeah, I just love playing here.
Q. What would you compare these greens to?
MORGAN PRESSEL: Could be like Aviara, but Aviara is much bigger.  These are quite a bit smaller, especially some the sections you have to hit them.  But in terms of type of green style, poana can get bumpy in the afternoon type of thing, so a little bit like Aviara.
Q. Is that the part where you have to be the most patient this week, is with the putter?
MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, I think you just have to, for me, just start ball on the line.  After that, nothing else you can control really.  You can control only how you hit the putt.
If I start the ball on my line, then at the end of the day I either had poor speed, didn't read it properly, or it wobbled a little bit.  As long as you keep giving yourself chances out here, you can see you can definitely make birdies.
Q. There was also quite a few big numbers pop up.  Seen a lot of doubles, triples.  Four strokes not that big of a deal on this kind of course?
MORGAN PRESSEL: You know, got to play some good golf tomorrow for sure.  Got to get out here and make some birdies, but also play smart.  You make doubles out here by short siding yourself in the wrong place.  It's easy to do.  Sometimes a 20, 30-footer up the hill can be better than a 5-, 6-, 7-footer down the hill.  Just playing to the right spot on the greens is really important:
Still be the same tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT