U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2007
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Ladies and gentlemen, even par 71, for Morgan Pressel.  Looks like you putted pretty well.  One 3-putt.  How do you feel about your game today?   
   MORGAN PRESSEL: I think I played pretty well today. Pretty steady. Never really let it get too far away from me. Started off a little rough, shaky. Just a little bit of anxiousness there on the first few holes. Hit a couple pretty poor putts on 13 and 14.   



 But other than that, I played pretty good.  And especially on the back nine I had a couple good par saves and some good birdie putts.   
  
  Q.  How was it different playing as a professional your first round back to Pine Needles after all these oh those many years ago?   
   MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, I'm six shots lower. Seven shots to par. So that's a bit different. But it's just great to come around here again, to remember what it was like and just know how much has changed in that period of time and just how much fun I'm still having out here and how I'm living my dream from the dream that I had when I was here last time. So it's pretty cool.   
  
  Q.  25 of the players here this week like you are under 20.  There's also been a great growth in the 20 to 25 group.  What has have the young players added to women's golf in terms of skill and the style?   
   MORGAN PRESSEL: I think that they have added another dimension, another story line to the Tour where there are so many different players, young players, older veteran players, or international players, who could win out here any given week.   



 You never know who is going to play well and it's added a little bit of pizzaz and a little bit more interest.   
  
  Q.  How wet was the course this morning and how soft were the greens and how did that change during the round?   
   MORGAN PRESSEL: It wasn't that bad. It wasn't that wet. The greens were receptive, but it wasn't overly damp or anything like that.   



 You just could play a little bit more aggressive, could expect shots to maybe not release as much.  But then a couple of them could get away from you if you blinked.   
  
  Q.  Did it change?  Did you feel, could you feel it drying out?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  It's drying out a little bit out there, definitely.  But it's still receptive.   
  
  Q.  Some of your colleagues, top ranked players in the world really struggled today, Karrie was over 80, Suzann is 82 or 83.  Why is that happening?   
   MORGAN PRESSEL: Just because it's a tough golf course. And everybody has a bad day. And this course, if you're just a little bit off can really bring it out in you.   



 I played with Karrie today and she definitely struggled a little bit and she could never really get any momentum going and it was kind of battling hard for her all day.  And that's tough on this golf course.  Because there's not really too many places where you can make up too much ground.   
  
  Q.  Have you ever played with someone of that caliber who had it going that backwards?  I mean, it happens, but have you ever seen it?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I have not.   
  
  Q.  Did it all bother you to watch it?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Well, I played okay.   
  
  Q.  I know that, but was it hard to watch?   
   MORGAN PRESSEL: It was interesting to watch. It was -- it was just another, the more you play, the more experience you gain from your own game from watching other players play and to see that look, it can happen to the best of them.   
  
  Q.  Strong international performance by the internationals today, your thoughts?   
   MORGAN PRESSEL: Well I haven't really seen any leader boards, other than what's out there. But they're good players, I mean, they have been playing well on the LPGA Tour for a long time, so not surprising.   
  
  Q.  How is your ankle?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  It is okay.  It's better.  Thank you.   
  
  Q.  When did you turn the corner?  You were looking pretty bad yesterday.   
   MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, this morning I woke up and the first thing I reached for is my ankle, like how does it feel. And it is still a little swollen, but it's gone down a lot and I had no pain when I was swinging, so that's good.   
  
  Q.  How big was the spider?   
   MORGAN PRESSEL: Teeny. I actually thought it was an ant, but a black ant wouldn't have, you wouldn't have that kind of reaction to a bite like that.   
  
  Q.  Was heat a factor today?   
   MORGAN PRESSEL: It was hot out there. But walking up the hill from 8 green to 9 tee I was kind of like panting. And then I kind of took a drink of water and hit my shot and didn't hit it so well, but.   



 But it was hot out there.  You definitely got to stay hydrated and just keep eating.  And I was trying to eat Uncrustibles out there, the little peanut butter and jelly sandwiches.  And it was kind of tough because it's almost so hot you don't feel like, you feel like gross when you eat something like that, so I was just, John was like, eat it, now.  And I was like, okay.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel like you could have put yourself in position to score if you could just putt a little bit better?   
   MORGAN PRESSEL: I hit 15 greens today, I think. Okay. 14. I counted 15. So. But, you know I'm probably wrong. So let's not go with that.   



 But, yeah, I mean, when I played the practice round I said 14 or 15, 16 greens was the number that I was kind of looking at that would be good playing out here, playing to the, not really getting caught in too many of the runoff areas.  And I only got caught in a couple today.   
 And so, no, I mean I hit it solidly, I had opportunities, but there's a lot of times when you really just have to play to the fat part of the green and you kind of almost are forced to leave yourself with a tough, long putt, just because you can't really short side yourself, there's a lot more of a penalty for short siding yourself.     
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT