MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 7, 2007
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PAM WARNER:  Morgan, thanks for coming in and joining us.  Great round out there, 4-under, no bogeys, and one shot off the lead.  Just talk about how you played today. 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Well, I felt like I played really well today.  I kind of had everything going.  I hit the ball -- I hit the ball pretty well into the greens.  I think I only missed a couple where I had to chip and got up-and-down a couple of times. 
 Other than that, I putted well and made a couple of long putts, and that helps. 
 PAM WARNER:  Can we go over your scorecard? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  First birdie, an 8-iron and I made a 20-foot putt there. 
 4, I hit a 4-hybrid to about probably 30 feet. 
 14, I hit a gap wedge from 110 to about two feet. 
 15, I hit a -- that was probably the shot of the day.  I hit a pitching wedge from a terrible lie in the rough and hit it to about seven feet. 

 Q.  We all know about the clubs being stolen, blah, blah, blah; how traumatic is that for a player, and do you still feel -- how close can they get with what they have given you to what you used to have? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Well, I was pretty upset.  I was pretty devastated when I lost them. 
 But I tried to look at it as I change clubs all the time.  I put -- technology is always changing, so it was just kind of a forced change in equipment, something that I didn't really have time to test. 
 Callaway was fantastic in getting me a new set of clubs right away.  Everything, every club in my bag, other than my putter, there was a little issue with, but that was resolved pretty quickly.  And then my driver, I went through probably about ten drivers to try and find one that I actually liked, or felt that I hit as well as I hit the driver that I used at the Kraft.  So finally last week and this week, they have made almost an exact replica of my FT-3 that I played with at the Kraft. 
 So I'm hitting it really well this week.  I can definitely tell the difference and I'm happy with it. 

 Q.  Do you even think about it at this point or are you just playing this stuff and, "This is my stuff now"? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I haven't thought about it, other than the driver, at all.  I've tried to totally, I mean, I've even replaced the Heavenwood that I had with one of Callaway's new hybrid clubs.  I try not to think about it.  I'm just happy with the clubs that I have now.  

 Q.  There's been three 5-unders posted.  You're one of two or three 4-unders so far.  Is it surprising that the scores are so low for a major or are conditions more favorable than we think? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  There were definitely opportunities out there and definitely a few players seized those opportunities. 
 The conditions were perfect today.  It was a beautiful day.  It was a little windy but not too bad.  And the course isn't really firm and fast; it's a little receptive.  So in that sense, you can be a little bit more aggressive in going at pins, and the greens are rolling great. 

 Q.  You're obviously young, but have you found that your approach to majors has changed this year? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Has my approach to majors changed -- 

 Q.  In the way you take on the golf course and just maybe with patience or something like that. 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Well, I think not just majors, but in general, all tournaments I've tried to be a little bit -- a little bit more patient and not let a bogey kill my round.  I mean, I think, what Karrie bogeyed the second hole today and still shot 4-under. 
 It's that sort of thing, realizing that there is still plenty of golf to play maybe after a bad hole.  I've learned to maybe rebound a bit quicker. 
 PAM WARNER:  Thank you, Morgan. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT