MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 6, 2007
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PAM WARNER:  Morgan, thanks for coming in and joining us today.  You won the first major of the year earlier this year at Kraft Nabisco back here at McDonald's looking to win your second major just talk about being here this week. 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I'm very excited to play here.  I had a great experience last year and really enjoyed it.  It was a great area, very nice golf course and they were some great people.  It's a great atmosphere -- well, it is a great atmosphere for the second major of the year, and hopefully it will be good for me. 

 Q.  Last time some of us saw you, you jumped in the lake with your grandmother and told us you were going shopping.  Tell us what you did right after the tournament? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I didn't go shopping for a while afterwards, actually, I didn't have time, I was so busy when I went home, especially after I lost my golf clubs and things like that.  It was crazy.  It was a crazy week. 

 Q.  What did you buy yourself? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  (Laughing) I don't know, I went shopping a little bit.  I spent some time at Ralph Lauren, we can say that. 

 Q.  Don't you get that stuff free? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I went shopping at Ralph Lauren. 

 Q.  There doesn't seem to be a ton of talk about you this week, have you sensed that at all? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I don't know what you mean.  I don't know what you mean.  There was a big article in the Times today and a big article in the Boston paper yesterday, so there's been a little bit. 

 Q.  It seems like there's distractions of non-members. 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I know exactly what you're asking me.  Coming from you, that's not -- 

 Q.  Do you have thoughts on that? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  It's been a bit of a circus, I guess you could say, that's for sure. 

 Q.  Good or bad? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I don't know.  I don't know.  I don't know, tease a tough question. 

 Q.  Kind of as a different level down from that question, you're obviously the only person on this tour who can win the Grand Slam this year.  Do you look at it that way? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  People keep saying it.  Do I -- is that the main focus in my mind?  No. 
 I want to win this tournament either way.  Whether I won the Kraft Nabisco or not, it doesn't make me want to win this event or any other event any more. 
 But, you know, it's there.  It's something -- it's something that's possible for me I guess this year. 

 Q.  I wonder if you could say in what way your life has changed since you won Nabisco. 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Well, I'd say the biggest change is that it's gotten a lot busier.  I've had a lot more obligations away from the golf course. 
 But you know, I've still -- I just go home every night and just feel like I need a little bit more sleep than I used to need.  But I'm not complaining.  I'd rather have that than nobody wanting to talk to me or not have to do anything like that. 

 Q.  Do you think your victory has had any effect on the young golfers in the States? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL: I think not just my victory; but all the other, especially young Americans playing very well out here.  I mean, Nicole Castrale winning last week, Paula has won and Brittany, and all of the other Americans are playing well out here.  I think, hopefully, as a group, we can all inspire maybe another younger generation of great players. 

 Q.  Now that you've won a major, as you approach this week differently, do you see yourself as a different player because you have that now? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  A different player, I don't necessarily think.  So maybe a little bit more confident just knowing that I have been there and that I have won; now that I know that I can -- not that I didn't think that I could, now I absolutely know that, look, I can definitely come out here this week and win it.  It's definitely possible. 
 But I'm still -- and hopefully I'm a little better -- I always try to keep improving.  But has my game totally changed?  No. 

 Q.  From an emotional standpoint, you get pretty fired up if things don't go well, for the most part, would you agree with that; is that a good way to assess that? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Yeah. 

 Q.  Have you found that having not won, and especially having won a major, and while your demands of yourself are still high, there's a little bit of a safety note for you, to at least have the win, maybe not pressing as much? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I'm sorry, I can't really understand or hear what you're saying. 

 Q.  You're pretty emotional the way you play.  Having won a tournament now, even though you still have high demands of yourself and high expectations, do you find yourself emotionally any different because you know you have that victory? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  No.  Not at all.  Tough question -- no.  Easy question, but tough for that.  No, I'm still just as hard on myself as I would have been before, during, and especially -- I mean, I might have been -- it might even have the opposite effect in that sense.  I've always had high expectations, and I don't like falling short of them. 

 Q.  What expectations do you have for the rest of the year? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Well, I just hope to continue to play well, to play the best that I can.  My expectations are on myself, not necessarily against, I guess -- not that I want to win two times or I want to win another major.  I don't have expectations like that. 
 My expectations are that I want to play so that when I walk off the golf course, I know I played really well. 

 Q.  Do you ever walk off the course feeling you played the best you could and didn't win? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  No.  (Laughing) I was going to say yes, but no.  I was going to say that, but then I thought about the put I left short -- dead in the heart on 16. 

 Q.  Wonder if you could give your general impressions of Lorena Ochoa and how much pressure is on her having not won a major, even though she is the No. 1 player in the world? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Well, I've actually played with Lorena the first two rounds of the last two tournaments, and she's finished first and second in both of them and obviously lost in a playoff last week.  That's not too shabby.  She's a great player and I'm sure she'll play very well this week. 
 It's just so impressive to watch her play and watch her hit the ball so well.  And she's a tremendous putter and a great competitor.  She grinds it out, and I'm sure she wants to win, win this week, win a major; she wants to win every week.  I mean, who doesn't want to win. 

 Q.  But is there added pressure on her because she hasn't won a major?  Have you sensed that at all? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I think that you guys put extra pressure on her, but whether she pays attention to that or not is a different story. 

 Q.  When you came out here and Annika was this grand name and was No. 1, and was perceived a certain way, do you look at Lorena the same way, or not yet? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I look at Lorena as a great player, as a great competitor, and obviously she's right now the No. 1 in the world.  Even when Annika was No. 1 in the world, you know, I still -- you still want to beat her.  It's not -- I don't think that it's different in that sense.  Is that kind of what you're asking? 

 Q.  Is she anymore or less intimidating than Annika was? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Well, I mean, look at Annika's career.  Not to say that -- not to cut short anything from Lorena at all, because Lorena is a great player.  But intimidating, they are both very intimidating, but you can't pay attention to that.  You're still out there.  You just know that when you say Annika's name on top of the leaderboard or you see Lorena's name, you know that they are great competitors, whether the same way -- whether you see Juli's name or Paula's name.  There's a whole list of players that, you know, you look at; that you know they are capable of hitting the shots. 
 But then you've got to go out and play your own game and see where it stacks you at the end of the day.  So I don't know about the intimidation question.  You don't pay attention to that. 

 Q.  You talked about last week, tracing your missing clubs, some of them to Miami.  What's the latest in that caper? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  You know, I truthfully don't know anymore than that, just because I haven't been home.  Supposedly they were going to ship some home.  But I don't know anymore in that situation. 
 PAM WARNER:  Thanks, Morgan. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT