HUGEL-AIR PREMIA LA OPEN
April 26, 2019
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A bogey-free round out there today.  How were you feeling compared to what you did out there last round?
MORGAN PRESSEL: You know, yesterday actually I played pretty well.  Made a couple squirrely shots on the back nine but just didn't really make many putts.
Today made a couple longer putts.  Was able to save a couple greens where I missed.  Was able to save par.  Chipped in once.  Just kept the ball in front of me.
This course kind of has its quirks to where if you get on the wrong side of the pin it can be really challenging to get it up and down and save par.
I played smart and gave myself a lot of opportunities.
Q. You can definitely tell towards the end of the round that greens are starting to get a little bouncier.  Does that affect the last couple holes?
MORGAN PRESSEL: You know, it was nice to play at 7:00 a.m.  It was definitely fresh greens.  Poana can definitely get bouncy, especially late in the afternoon.
But it wasn't too bad.  The greens are in great shape.  They roll really well, especially early, so take advantage of the tee time.  Take advantage of getting up at 4:15.  If I got to get up, might as well have good greens.
Q. Where did you chip in?
MORGAN PRESSEL: On 17 actually.  I was like right in between the trees.  It was a weird shot.  Didn't have much backswing and I kind of like hooded the face and when I hit hoped, but not really, and it went in.  I was like, Okay, thank you.
Q. You'll take it.  You played well here last year as well.  What is it about this course that suits you?
MORGAN PRESSEL: I like this golf course.  I've always liked a little bit older style golf courses.  It's not a birdiefest.  Which I like.  You've really the to hit some good shots.
Tricky greens.  They fooled me quite a few times even in these two days where you think it goes one way and it might break entirely the other direction.
Yeah, I just, I don't know, really like it here.  I like the area.  Love the golf course.  The club treats us really well.  Great event.
Q. On 18, that a hole that you're just looking to make par, I mean, what Brittany went through there...
MORGAN PRESSEL: I made birdie yesterday.
Q. Well, not eliminating the birdie, but...
MORGAN PRESSEL: You just want to make sure -- I mean, just like I said earlier.  You want to make sure you hit the right section of the green.  To that left pin, back left pin, you cannot miss left.
Right is like...
Q. A lot of people missing left.
MORGAN PRESSEL: Right, I don't think they're trying to, but...
Q. Sure, of course.
MORGAN PRESSEL: You know, it's tough.  That's where you just kind of have to play smart around this course to make sure you don't end up in no man's land.
Q. Do you like a three as a finishing hole?  It's uncharacteristic.
MORGAN PRESSEL: It's different, but it's a fun hole.  It's a great location there in front of the clubhouse.  It's great atmosphere.  Yeah, I think it's neat.
Q. Golfers are always searching for something.  Have you found something recently?
MORGAN PRESSEL: I'm a searcher.  Yeah, you know, I've just been working hard on my swing and just it's been close.  Played well, what, at Kia for couple days.  It's been hit and miss, so it's nice to put it all together today.
Looking forward to continuing this weekend.
Q. Still working with Stockton?
MORGAN PRESSEL: Working with Martin hall.  Been with Martin about a year and a half.  Ron's definitely given his input and a lot of help as well.  A little bit on the mental side and a little bit on the putting.  A little bit of everything.  We're all over the place.  I've got a great team which is very supportive so I'm very lucky.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT