SEMGROUP CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JOHN Q. HAMMONS
May 4, 2007
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Thanks for coming in today.  1-under today.  Just talk about how you played.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I pretty well today.  I hit the ball pretty well all the way around.  I made a couple good putts.  Missed some opportunities out there certainly, but made some good par putts.  I hit the ball pretty close for as long as the course is playing.   
  
  Q.  Do your scorecard.  Birdie on 2.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I hit a four Hybrid to about seven feet.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Birdie on 6.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I hit a 6-iron to about three feet.   
 THE MODERATOR:  And bogey on 18.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I missed -- I was short of the green and hit a terrible chip and had about 25 feet for par.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Questions.   
  
  Q.  This is your first round here.  How did it play?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  The course is playing very long.  Couple of the holes are a little shorter because the tee boxes are a little muddy because of all the rain.  But the course is playing tough out there.  It's getting a little windier, especially now.   
 I felt that I hung in there and played pretty well.  Nobody's tearing it up and getting too far away at the moment.   
  
  Q.  What happens when you have a course that's taken this much rain last week and no roll and you're hitting long irons?  Does that flatten out the field?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Long irons?  I'm hitting woods.  Yeah, I mean, I played it on Monday before a lot of the rain and it was playing long then.  For me at least it seemed like it was playing long.   
 It just got all that rain and now it's playing even longer.  That's kind of what happens.  There's quite a bit of mud on the ball and there were some muddy areas, so you're in the getting much roll at all.   
  
  Q.  So that helps to keep everyone kind of bunched together.  You don't think anyone's going to get away.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I mean, it's possible.  But chances are, you know, a few people going way under par didn't seem to be likely out there today.  But you never know.   
  
  Q.  (Indiscernible).   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  On the fairway.   
  
  Q.  (Indiscernible).   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Well, we kind of had to play that way.  That's how wet it is out there.  There wasn't really much of a choice.  There was mud on just about every shaft and they haven't been able to cut the fairways because they couldn't get the mowers out.  They would destroy the golf course.  They don't really have a choice.   
  
  Q.  Do you ever change your mindset when it's a 54-hole tournament as opposed to 72?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Sure.  You don't have that one extra round to, not necessarily throw away, but maybe that's not as great as the others.  You don't have that extra round to bounce back and come back.   
 But still you don't want to get off to a bad start.  You always want to be right in there in the beginning, especially in a three-day tournament.  You got to be ready to play from the first hole.   
  
  Q.  What is it about 18 that's playing so tough?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  It's a very long hole.  It's very long uphill into the wind and very wet.  I didn't hit a great drive, and then couldn't even get a 3-wood to the front of the green.  That's sad.   
 But, you know, it's just tough.  Especially where that pin is over that rise on the back left there.  Just a difficult hole.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  You're carrying a new driver and a new hybrid?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Two new hybrids, yes.   
  
  Q.  How were those clubs for you today?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  They were great.  I hit the two hybrids quite often today and I hit them very well.  My driver I wasn't quite as confident with it earlier in the week, but the FP5 today was great.   
 Hopefully I can just continue to get more confidence with both my hybrids and my new Callaway driver and it'll be good.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone).   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Uh-huh.   
  
  Q.  She was the defending champion last year.  Can you talk about playing in that group today?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Great group.  Christie is a good friend of mine and we always had a lot of fun playing together.  This is my first time playing with Laura Davies and it was a treat.  She is so nice and it was so much fun to be out-driven by 50 yards.   
 I hit the best drive on 17 today, and she doesn't even think and her 3-wood is right past me.  I'm like, Thank you.   
 But it's fun to be with players who are that accomplished and to just be in such a great group.   
  
  Q.  If you're playing with the defending champion and you're at least keeping pace, do you think like, Well, I must be right where I want to be?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  No.  You don't really think about it like that.  It's another year.  Every tournament is different, so no.   
  
  Q.  You said you're hitting more woods today.  I've been hearing more people saying they've been hitting more woods and rescue clubs.  On a normal round how often would you hit those clubs?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Not as much as today.  Usually the courses that we play aren't quite this long.  Every once in a while we get a really long course.  Sometimes the Open plays really long.  We bring the rain, so usually our courses are pretty with wet.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I hit the rescues probably six or seven times today maybe.  Fairway woods probably -- I hit a couple 5-woods, couple -- one 3-wood.  So I hit it in quite often.  I had a couple of shorter irons.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  You played three and a half rounds here basically.  Are you still learning?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  You're always learning, learning about the greens and the way they bounce.  And as the course will firm up a little bit, maybe directions of the tee might have to change a little bit and things like that.  But it shouldn't -- my game plan shouldn't vary too much.   
  
  Q.  Did you feel like you're close enough?  You did what you had to do today it put yourself in the hunt?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Yeah.  I just went on the there to give myself a chance over the weekend.  Go out and post a good number.  I missed a short birdie putt on 3.  Missed a couple other opportunities.   
 So, you know, if I just play well tomorrow and give myself some more opportunities hopefully they'll fall.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT