FIELDS OPEN IN HAWAII
February 23, 2007
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PAM WARNER:  Thanks for coming in and joining us today.  Great round out there 7-under for the day, two shots off the lead now, 8-under.  Could you talk about your round.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  For the most part today I played great.  I played really well.  I hit the ball solidly and looking back, 7-under is probably one of the highest scores -- probably almost the worst that I could have done today.   
 I missed 3-putts for birdie inside of ten feet, and I just really had a ton of chances, which was nice for once.   
 PAM WARNER:  You got off to a real hot start there.  Just talk about that run.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Well, even starting on the first hole, I had about five feet for birdie that I missed.   
 On 11, I made about a 20-footer.  On 12, I made about a 30-footer.  And then the nice eagle on 13.  I mean, yesterday, it hit past the hole and swung back to an inch.  So today it went in, so I improved.   
 PAM WARNER:  Can we go over your score card?  You started on the back, so on 11?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  11 I hit a pitching wedge to about 20 feet.   
 I hit a 5-iron on 12 to about 30 feet.   
 I hit a -- I was 54 yards to the pin.  I hit a little lob-wedge, 60-degrees.  It kind of went one hop, the cup was damaged so it must have hit somewhere by the cup, I'm assuming.  I didn't see it.    
 14, I was just right of the green on my second shot and hit a little sand wedge chip to about five feet.   
 15, I hit a gap wedge to about ten feet.   
 2, I 3-putted from the very front edge of the green.  I hit 5-iron.  The pin was on the back right, and I just hit a horrible first putt.  I mean, it hopped straight up in the air from the fringe.   
 PAM WARNER:  How far would you say your first putt was?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  40 feet.  My second putt was probably 15.   
 5, I was just over the green.  I hit a 5-wood just over the green in two and I hit a sand shot to about a foot.   
 6, I hit a 9-iron to about three feet.   
 7, I hit a 9-iron to about 20 feet and 3-putted.   
 Then I hit an 11-wood to about six feet.   
  
  Q.  You've been playing well last week and this week as well, what is it about your game that you feel so comfortable with right now?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Well, I worked a lot during the off-season, I worked a lot on everything, just tightening everything up so that I could hit them closer to the hole and make more birdies.  I worked a ton on my putting, and I think I putted pretty well.   
 Yesterday was a tough day.  I didn't play that well yesterday.  But today I putted very well.  And, I mean, I just came out this year ready to play.  I worked a lot in the gym hitting it a little further, so everything pays off.   
  
  Q.  I think you were leading after the second day --   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Last week.   
  
  Q.  Last week.  Are you going to take the same approach as last week or did you learn something from last week?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Well, last week the last day, it was really tough to play.  I think that golf course is just a touch more difficult than this golf course, especially when the win blows like it did.   
 I've just got to go out and fire at pins tomorrow, because I don't know, what did Stacy finish at, 10?  So I have to go out and I have to play for birdies.  There are plenty of birdies out there.  I had two bogeys today and still shot 7-under, so it's possible.   
  
  Q.  The first round was a little windier, do you want wind or more like today?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  (Laughing) Well, the rain this afternoon isn't a bad call -- no, I'm just kidding.   
 I'll let you know tomorrow afternoon.  I don't really know.  I would think that could I hopefully play well in any situation, and I'm sure I can, you know, not have my all in any given situation.  On a day like I had this morning, it's easy for everybody to score.  On a tougher day with a little more wind, the better players are going to play better.   
 So whatever tomorrow brings.  I can't ask for it, so whatever comes.   
  
  Q.  Did you learn anything watching Paula last week?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Paula was on fire last week, at least the day I played with her.  She reeled out four birdies in a row on the front nine, and she just never faltered.  She's such a great putter and she's a great ball-striker, and especially in that wind with a little lower ball flight, she was able to control it.  It was great to watch.  You know, just shows how well you actually have to play out here to win.  And even that being said, she did have a little hiccup on 11 and bounced right back from it.   
 It's great to play with great players and watch them win.   
  
  Q.  You and Natalie, you're about 25-under if you played both your balls; does that help watching her make that many putts?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  Well, yeah, she's like great on the front and I think we were feeding off each other a little bit.  She would make a birdie; I would make a birdie.  I birdied 11 and 12 and I turned to my caddie on 13 after I eagled and I said, that's about the only way I was going to get the tee in this group.  Everybody birdied 11 and Natalie birdied 12.  I finally had the honor after 13.   
 So, I mean, we had a great time out there.  She played very well and I mean, our whole group was great.  Julieta, we get along so well, the three of us.  We had a great group.  Julieta Granada, I've known her forever.  It was fun.   
  
  Q.  Are you glad you're in here?  (Pounding rain outside).   
 MORGAN PRESSEL:  I'm very happy I'm in here right now.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT