HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2006
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DANA GROSS RHODE:  We have Morgan Pressel.  She went 2&1 over Mina Lee.  Talk about your round and playing in your first professional Match Play Championship.
MORGAN PRESSEL:  Well I played really well today.  I hit the ball well.  Putted better than I have in a long time.  So that gives me a lot of confidence.  I've worked really hard on my putting the last few days especially a couple mornings here I've been on the putting green more than usual before rounds.  I feel like I'm striking it well and I'm firing at the pins which is what you have to do in match play.  Even though it's my first professional match play event, I feel like I can win every match and if I play WELL, hopefully I will, but you never know.
Q.  Can you just talk about how you look forward to your match against Paula?
MORGAN PRESSEL:  I think it will be fun.  I think it will be a good match.  Hopefully it will be well promoted and a lot of people will come out to watch because I think it will be great for the Tour and I think it will be great for us.

We've known each other for a very long time, and she's an unbelievable player and so we're both tough competitors.  I think it's going to be a very good match.  We're going to have to make lots of birdies, that's for sure.
Q.  Have you played against her in match play before?
MORGAN PRESSEL:  Quite a few times.
Q.  Can you also talk about the local caddie, Brian.  I actually had him in an outing and he was unbelievable.  How is that working out?
MORGAN PRESSEL:  He's great.  He knows this course so well and that's very important, especially the greens, because the fairways are pretty wide here but it's mostly the greens.  So he's helped me out quite a bit, correcting my reads on the putts.

So we have similar reads a lot.  He's been helpful calming me down.  He's competitive.  He's told me about how nervous he's gotten sometimes and I'm like:  Calm down, relax, it's not the end of the world.  But we're having a good time.
Q.  You've been up through junior golf a long time competing with the same people you're seeing out here now, Paula Creamer and everyone, and you've spoken in the past a lot about Michelle Wie and she should play more junior golf.  How do you feel out here now, she gets so much attention; you're part of the Tour, she's not, she gets so much attention.  You and the other contemporaries, how do you feel about that?
MORGAN PRESSEL:  Well, she does get a lot of attention, that's the truth.  She's a great player and the public is fascinated with the fact that she hits the ball a long way and that she's very tall and wants to play with the men.  All those things go together into making her the celebrity icon that she is.  And she plays great when she's out here and it helps us when she plays.  We just all wish she would play more.
Q.  If you she were to come to you and say:  Morgan, give me your best advice, should I play the LPGA Tour or should I continue to play, freelancing, like she's doing, what would be your best advice to her?
MORGAN PRESSEL:  First of all, she wouldn't do that.  She's got it made.  She can play seven or eight times on the LPGA Tour, and it's like this exclusivity factor that she has going on where she only plays 15, 20 events a year, or maybe even 15, 16 events a year.  See, with the men, if you    she can play wherever she wants and she can go over to Japan which is equal to some of our purses.  So, why not?
Q.  Would it be a showdown, looking it's conceivable there could be a final with you against her.
MORGAN PRESSEL:  It's conceivable.  But there are three rounds left and it's match play and anything can happen.  I'm sure that that match would be well promoted.
Q.  Is this more relaxed or can you talk about your attitude this week compared to a normal stroke play?
MORGAN PRESSEL:  Well, it's a fire at the pins.  You've got to make the putt or it doesn't matter.  It's different.  It's definitely different.  It's 18 holes.  You've got to give it all you've got and you can't leave anything out there because it's very possible that you could lose 1 down.

So you've got to think every shot to be the deciding shot.  Whereas I guess it could be in any round, or in any tournament, but when there's four rounds, it's a little different than when there's only 18 holes.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT