MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 8, 2006
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Just kind of overall assess like how you feel how you did.
MORGAN PRESSEL:  I played    I played pretty well all day.  I hit the ball solid.  I was in the middle of the fairway with my driver almost all day.

I gave myself quite a few birdie opportunities.  I just couldn't get anything to go in.

And I absolutely lost my mind on the last three holes.  I 3 putted all of the last three.  So that hurts.
Q.  What's it like?  Was this your first time playing with Annika?
MORGAN PRESSEL:  Um hum.
Q.  What was that like?
MORGAN PRESSEL:  It was great.  She's obviously a great player and we had a lot of fun.  So I mean, I tried to go into it not really freaking out about it, obviously, because you can't spaz about things like that.  I think I did maybe when I played with Karrie at Nabisco, but so I got off to a good start today and I couldn't finish.
Q.  But you answered that birdie putt of hers on like 14, maybe, I'm trying to    you were ahead of her pretty much the whole round?
MORGAN PRESSEL:  Yeah, I was.  The first three you don't really think about that.  I mean, you look at who else is in the field and there's some good scores up there.  Pat Hurst I saw was I think six or something and Christina Kim was like five.  I haven't totally stared at the rest of them.  But there's some good scores out there and right now I'm quite a bit behind.
Q.  Those drives I think on 16 and 4, you had great opportunities and maybe your irons weren't as close.  Did you feel like there were some chances there, and maybe you didn't capitalize on them?
MORGAN PRESSEL:  Oh, there were lots of chances.  I mean, that were either I misjudged the distance on my second shot or it went    you know, I found like on 16, for example, I felt like I hit a good shot and I was shocked at how far it was.  So I mean, yeah, things like that.
Q.  Well, you said that you got a lot of ground to make up, but do you feel like the way you drove the ball particularly, do you feel pretty more confident, if you can get the putter working?
MORGAN PRESSEL:  Yeah, I just need to get the putts to drop.  I wasn't that far out of it.  And I think the course is going to continue to play tougher, but I think there are still some birdies out there and hopefully I can find them tomorrow.
Q.  What's the biggest adjustment or thing that you have to be aware of now that you're a professional and as you come up to the middle of your first season?  Is there something that really
MORGAN PRESSEL:  There's nothing, really.  It's just continuing to improve.  That's just it.  You just got to continue to improve your game.  So I'm the same person that I was.  I don't    there's really been nothing that stands out as something that I need to change or something like that.
Q.  Christina Kim has talked about the fact that she's been out here three years and she's just now realizing how good she can be.  So I guess it's a continuing process.
MORGAN PRESSEL:  Well, I think at every level you have to    like at Corning, that was my lowest score was 64, the first time where I could really, I really kept momentum going and things like that.  So every time you play you learn something.

So hopefully I have a couple of low rounds that I can build on that and play better.  Continue to keep the momentum going throughout a round instead of losing it like I have been.
Q.  You know how it feels to shoot that low, right, you get that feeling.
MORGAN PRESSEL:  Oh, yeah.  It's just when everything goes in.  And you don't make any mistakes and you don't let it slip away.  I mean, what, I make two birdies in a row and then follow it up with a bogey.  And you just can't do that.  Just things like that, those are just momentum breakers.
Q.  What was the key challenge to playing with Annika?  You said kind of not spazzing, but what is the challenge of playing with someone of that caliber?
MORGAN PRESSEL:  You just try not to pay attention.  You can't think about it like that.  You just got to play golf and just go.  You're still trying to get the ball in the hole.  And it's not who you're playing with.
Q.  You guys had a few laughs it seems?
MORGAN PRESSEL:  Yeah, no.
Q.  On the tee boxes and stuff?
MORGAN PRESSEL:  Yeah, we were chatting and, you know, Jimin, she and I had a lot of fun today.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT