RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 3, 2017
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nice to get in just as the rain is starting to fall down.  Describe the conditions this morning.
MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, I think the golf course was definitely scorable this morning, especially after all the rain last night, and it was fairly calm this morning.  Actually got a little bit warm at a couple points.  You know, I played solidly, didn't really put myself in a lot of trouble, and hit a lot of greens and gave myself chances at birdies.
Q. Talk about your mindset coming into this major.  What really is on your mind as you progress through these next three days here?
MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, I feel like I've been close for a little while and just haven't been putting it all together, and today certainly it came together for me nicely, and I'm definitely pleased with my round.  Just going to keep trying to do more of the same.  I know that it's there.  I know that I'm capable, and just got to trust it.
Q. You've played in each of the last five Solheim Cups.  You're currently outside of the team.  How much does that weigh on your mind as you're trying to play good golf out here this week?
MORGAN PRESSEL: I mean, at this point I'm just really working on playing good golf for myself more than anything.  It's been a struggle this year, and I just really would love to continue to play well this week, and that's my plan, not really too much worried about Solheim.  Whatever happens will happen, and it'll take care of itself.
Q. Got to be a good way to start your week here at Kingsbarns?
MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, definitely.  I love this golf course.  It's definitely one of the best golf courses I've ever played.  It's gorgeous but a great test of golf, but this morning in those conditions it was scorable, and I woke up at 4:00 for a reason, so I might as well take advantage of it, and I was able to do that this morning.
Q. You've had a couple good finishes in Women's British Opens.  How do you like the links style?
MORGAN PRESSEL: I like links golf.  I wouldn't say that I would have said that at the beginning of my career, but it certainly took a little bit of getting used to, learning to hit different types of shots, learning to not fight the wind I think was a big thing for me, and keep the ball closer to the ground.  Growing up in Florida on Bermuda, you've kind of got to fly everything everywhere, and it's a different type of game.  But I'd say in the last five or six years, I've really, really enjoyed playing links golf and have, like you said, had a couple of really good events.
Q. What is it in particular you like would you say?  I've heard mixed things.  Some players say it's not true links, it's American style.  How would you describe this test?
MORGAN PRESSEL: I mean, it's a links golf course.  There's a lot of pot bunkers out there.  The grass is definitely the same style that you would find on any typical links course.  I think it's got a little more elevation change than you would typically see, but it's the nature of the property.  I mean, I think it's a beautiful course.  It's hard not to have a smile on your face when you're out here with these views.  That's what I tried to do today.
Q. What has been the challenge for you?  What have you been working on the hardest on, and are you seeing results like today on what you've been working on?
MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, definitely seeing results.  I feel like I've been close for a little while, and the scores have not shown that.  It's probably one of the most frustrating things is knowing that it's there and not being able to pull it out.  But I'm not going to get out of myself, but I felt like I had a good game plan out there today, and going to just continue to trust what I'm working on and get it done.
Q. You and Paula are such good friends; do you talk about the Solheim Cup or do you just not even bring it up at dinner or mention it?
MORGAN PRESSEL: You know, we've talked about it a little bit, but not too much.  I mean, we both certainly just -- I mean, like I said earlier, we're out here to play great golf.  We both have had our struggles, but Solheim Cup is awesome.  I've been on five teams, and I've been very proud to be on five teams.  It's an awesome week, and I would love to be there, but at this point playing good golf for myself is the number one focus.
Q. What was the benefit of being able to play last week and kind of get the tune-up?
MORGAN PRESSEL: I think it's a great tune-up to get another week of playing links golf.  You know, the greens are quite a bit slower than what we're used to, so getting used to hitting putts quite a bit harder.  Just in general, playing the wind.  I mean, last week was so windy, much windier than it has been so far here this week, and I think it's just great to get that opportunity to play another links-style course to get ready for this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT