U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 31, 2001
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MORGAN PRESSEL: The good stuff.

MORGAN PRESSEL: That was relieving.  I was happy I had a birdie on the last hole.  It made me feel good, that maybe I can play, well, better tomorrow.  I hope I have a better ball-striking round.

MORGAN PRESSEL: It was okay.  It wasn't great.  It wasn't bad.  Like I said, I missed a few short putts, pulled a few birdie opportunities, short  ones, and I could have hit the ball better into the greens.

MORGAN PRESSEL: I was nervous starting off. But it calmed down a little bit.  You'd be surprised how far a three-foot putt looks in the Open. (Laughter.)

Q.  Morgan, the hardest part of today, was it the galleries?  What bugged you the most out there today?

MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, I don't think it was the galleries, because -- well, the first hole the gallery is big.  Then as I kept bogeying they got a little smaller (laughter.) But they stayed there.  I didn't know I had that many friends.  No, it wasn't the galleries.  I don't think anything really bugged me, except for the rough.  But that's pretty much it.

Q.  Morgan, did the course sort of surprise you? You've been playing it when it was wet, because so many of your shots were great, but they more or less like just kind of hold over the edge and once they caught that edge they just kept rolling away from you.  But actually I thought you played well and were on target.  But did the course dry out and get a little faster; did it surprise you?

MORGAN PRESSEL: I don't think it surprised me, because I knew -- I figured it was going to dry out a little bit.  But, yeah, it was a lot drier than it had been.  We got a little rain, but it still stayed fairly dry.

Q.  Morgan, a couple of questions.  First of all, what would have been more enjoyable for you, playing in this event or playing in a junior event that you had a chance to win, just from a playing standpoint?  And the second question is when you let your --

MORGAN PRESSEL: Wait, one at a time (laughter.) Probably -- definitely the Open, because Opens -- it's a great experience for anyone.  And just getting to play in it is a big honor.  I know I played well to get here.

Q.  Second question, as you got close to this morning's round, when you let your imagination really run wild, how good did you imagine this round could have been?

MORGAN PRESSEL: Probably par.  I thought par would have been a really good score, and it was, it was three behind the leader.  I would have been happy with  par.  I'm happy with what I had, but I could have shot a lot better.

Q.  Were you aware of the fans following you around, did it effect your game at all?

MORGAN PRESSEL: No, not really.  I try not to pay attention to too much of that.  That can -- it can throw you off sometimes.  So I tried to stay focused.

MORGAN PRESSEL: It would have been nice (laughter.) Yeah, par would have been perfect.  Maybe I would have been happy with 73, maybe.  But I'm not that disappointed.  If everyone doubles their scores and shoots the same tomorrow I'd make the cut.

MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah.


Q.  You started getting a little emotional out there at the podium and a little bit now, is that relief, overwhelmed or what do you think?

MORGAN PRESSEL: I don't know.  I don't know.

Q.  Morgan, so many of you good athletes, as I said, I thought you hit the ball very well today, but a little adrenaline there, some of those shots, they kind  of took off on you and maybe went a little further than expected?

MORGAN PRESSEL: No, not further than expected.  Probably more left than I expected.  I pulled a lot of shots, missed a lot of greens, skulled a chip.

MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, maybe that's why she played well.  (Laughter.) No, not really.  You have to think.  It's very difficult.  You do have to think. But I don't know if I'd be exhausted from thinking (laughter.)

Q.  What was your best moment, not necessarily best shot today on the course.  And what was your worst moment, not necessarily your worst shot today on the course?

MORGAN PRESSEL: My best moment was probably the last hole.  Birdying the last hole, finishing like that, that was good.  My worst moment, probably would have been when I skulled my chip.  That wasn't good. 

MORGAN PRESSEL: Yes.

MORGAN PRESSEL: 7-iron.

MORGAN PRESSEL: 15 feet.

MORGAN PRESSEL: 8, and 8 from about 143 yards, but.

MORGAN PRESSEL: 8 feet, maybe.

MORGAN PRESSEL: Probably about 40 feet and the same on 11.

MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, the fairways were a little soft.  I hit a couple of shots with mud on the ball, so I didn't know where they were going to go.  My driving was probably the best part.

MORGAN PRESSEL: I'm having fun.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT