FUBON LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 22, 2015
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Strong two-birdie finish.  That has to feel pretty nice for day one?
MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, definitely.  17 played tough today.  I hit a really good shot in there to about four or five feet and made that.  Then 18, I actually didn't hit a very good chip after being up by the green in two but made a good-length putt.
Q. How long, do you think?
MORGAN PRESSEL: Probably about 25 feet maybe.  Good thing I hit the center of the hole.  It's always good when they go in.
But yeah, I think I hit 14 greens today, something around there.  So I didn't put myself in a whole lot of trouble.  I was a little upset with my one bogey, because it was just a club error, a mistake; not a poor shot or anything like that.  It was a tough wind to judge which clubs to hit on certain holes, and some of the holes are cross-wind and that makes it challenging; slightly hurting, slightly helping.  But I think for the most part we did a pretty good job with that today and kept myself out of trouble.
Q. How do you like the course?
MORGAN PRESSEL: I like the golf course.  I played here a few years ago for Swinging Skirts.  Good golf course.  I actually didn't play it Tuesday practice round, which was unusual.  I just spent more time practicing on the range.  I felt like I needed a little bit more range time.  But I did -- I mean, I remember most of the golf course.
Q. When is the last time you've done that, took a Tuesday off completely?
MORGAN PRESSEL: It happens a couple times a year but not often.
Q. What were you working on?
MORGAN PRESSEL: Just trying to make solid contact.  I've been struggling a little bit with my chipping.  So I spent a couple hours on that and then a couple hours on the range, too.  So it was a long session.  It was a grinding session on Tuesday.
Q. Do you have any goals coming into the Asia Swing, anything working at Solheim that you wanted to continue?
MORGAN PRESSEL: I just felt like I continued to make progress with my golf swing, and some days it's better than others.  I felt like in Malaysia, I hit it really, really well.  And then last week, I was upset; I felt like I had regressed quite a bit.
It's just always a balance of working on it and playing.  It's trying to really make a change but then also being able to play with it and find a good thought to go out on the golf course.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT