SOLHEIM CUP
September 20, 2015
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Morgan, very well played against a gutsy European competitor in Catriona Matthew.  How significant a point is this for you and Team USA?
MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, Juli asked if I wanted to go off first or last in that sense, and she put me out early to take care of a point.  And I was able to do that.  I knew when you're in those positions, either in the early stage or the late stage, you're going to have a really tough match.
And certainly against Catriona.  She is no slouch.  I knew she would bring it today.  And we both played really well.  I think I was 5-under, she was 4-under, something like that, I don't know the exact score.
It was a tough match.  It was hard fought and brought it to 18 and probably worked a little bit harder at the end than I needed to.  But I really would have liked that putt to go in on 17, but I was able to get it done on 18.
Q. What was the message from your captain heading out ahead of these Sunday singles matches?
MORGAN PRESSEL: Just get it done.  Take care of your own point.  That was the big thing from Juli was play your own game.  It's real easy, especially since we've had four rounds of partner play, you're out there on your own, and now it's time to play your own game.  The reason you made it on this team is for your play the last two years.  So go out there and play your ball and beat your opponent.  That was pretty much the pep-talk we got.
Q. (Inaudible.)
MORGAN PRESSEL: I wasn't out there, I heard about it, it definitely fired me up before I went out there.  It's quite sad, really.  It's unfortunate that that happened.  And I heard Charley was quite upset about it, as well.  Because I think she knows what happened out there and that's not what the Solheim Cup is about.  That's not what we do out here.  That's not how we play.  And that's unfortunate, but that's what happened.
Q. How do you feel about that maybe deciding the Solheim Cup this year?
MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, it definitely could.  It certainly could.  There was, of course, the other incident the morning before.  There's been quite a bit of controversy over the last two days, as there usually is.  But unfortunately this time it's poor sportsmanship.
Q. In the long run will this change the view of people in America?
MORGAN PRESSEL: You have to ask them.  I would think -- I mean, Suzann is always one of those thorns in the side of the Americans as a public persona figure.  But there's a way to do that with class, and there's a way to do that without it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT