SOLHEIM CUP
September 18, 2015
Morgan Pressel
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  They are going out in the first match in the fourball matches this afternoon.  Paula, the captain gave you a huge vote of confidence, putting you out here in the first match.  Do you feel vindicated?  
PAULA CREAMER: Well, the whole team did.  Being partners with Morgan makes me feel so comfortable out here.  This is just so exciting.  We played great.  We had a couple little things here and there, but I'm so proud of us.  We had one job to do and that was to go out and lead us off strong, and I'm glad we did that.   
 Q.  Morgan, pretty much knew that they were going to put out Suzann Pettersen in that first match.  She can be pretty intimidating.  You seem very comfortable out there in a pairing we haven't seen too often.  
MORGAN PRESSEL: For sure.  Suzann and I, we play a lot of golf together.  And at the end of the day, they want to win, we want to win.  They couldn't really get any putts to go in.  Paula made a huge first putt in the first hole to draw the first blood, essentially.  And we just kept it going, kept the pedal down.   
Suzann made a great putt on 14 for birdie.  I was like, okay, got to finish it off strong and we were able to do that.   
 Q.  Team USA, putting that first point on the board.  How does that feel?  
MORGAN PRESSEL: That's what Juli sent us out to do.  She told me, even before this week, she said I think I want to send you and Paula out first match, get that first point on the board.  And as the week progressed, she said that's definitely my plan.   
We're both very comfortable with each other.  It's nice to play with your best bud on the golf course.  We have similar games.  We stayed patient.  We didn't hit the best shots out there.  We made a few birdies, I think we were probably a couple under and just made it work.   
 Q.  What was the real difference today, do you think the fact that you are so close helps the comfort factor?  
PAULA CREAMER: You know, you're going to have to play.   
 Q.  When you see that pairing, and that pairing is going to be a tough one.  
PAULA CREAMER: Alternate shots, it's a great game.  You have to always have one ball in play and give yourself many opportunities.  Morgan made some good putts early on.  We felt very confident, very comfortable.  Never got too far ahead of ourselves and that's what we needed to do.   
 Q.  You went out to make the point this morning, and you certainly did that?  
MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, that was our job.  Our job was to get out there this morning and put the first point on the board for the United States and we were able to do that.  We played confidently all day, hit good shots, made putts when we needed to and dodged a couple of bullets when we got a little lucky.  It just worked out today for sure.   
 Q.  On paper you're the strongest pairing, that sends out a statement, doesn't it?  
PAULA CREAMER: It does.  You know, they've always played well together, they're always the strong one.  But we're just as strong and we knew that it was going to be tough.  It's a big role to go out first.  I think we were definitely ready for it, very pumped, very excited.  But we just kept going one shot at a time, and that's all you can do.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT