THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 12, 2015
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Last few holes had to be little tough.  When did it start raining?
MORGAN PRESSEL: It started raining on us on 14, on the 14 tee.  Really went away on 13, and on 14 tee it started pouring.  I'm indebted to a TV runner for going to my locker to get my rain jacket because it wasn't supposed to rain until this evening, so that was our poor planning, and Rock got soaked.  But very thankful for the guy who came to get my jacket for me.  He brought it on 15.  I kind of looked back on 13, and thought that doesn't look very good, and sure enough it rolled right on in.
Q. So tough finish on the last hole.  Talk about that second shot?
MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, I didn't hit a very good drive, and I thought I could pull it off.
Q. What did you hit?
MORGAN PRESSEL: 4 hybrid.  It's just the grass was so wet that it didn't get up in the air.  Looking back, obviously, it was a mistake, but I thought I could hit the shot and it just didn't work out.
Q. So how good are you at just walking off the 18th after that and just going and enjoying your dinner and blocking that out?
MORGAN PRESSEL: Right now I think, I mean, days are different.  Every day is different.  I truly, yeah, you know, it was stupid now, but I felt in that moment I could hit the shot and I'm still 2-back going into tomorrow.  So I can't dwell too much on it.  I think maybe in my earlier years on Tour I certainly -- it would have affected me more, I think.
So just I mean I hit it great today as some of the best ball stroking I've had in a long time.  So that was encouraging.  I can't tell you the number of ten-footers that I missed.  So I've got to go tomorrow morning and practice my putting.  I left quite a few short too, so I don't know if the greens were just slower than I anticipated, a little bumpier this afternoon just with it being a little softer.  I don't know.  I've got to think about it and figure it out for tomorrow.
But if I can hit it like that tomorrow I've got to make -- I couldn't miss anymore.  So I've got to make a couple.  So I'm just encouraged by the day.  Obviously disappointed on the last, but I'm right there.  I've got a chance.
Q. So it's supposed to rain all night long.  It's supposed to rain in the morning till about 7:00 I think they said.  Then there is a small window and then again.  So have you -- talk about how this course handles rain and kind of your thoughts on maybe how tomorrow might go, stopping, stopping?
MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, being on the side of the mountain you would hope it will be helpful that it will drain okay.  I know some of the greens certainly puddle.  There was a puddle on the first green and a puddle on the 18th green.  So that could be a challenge.  The fairways are going to be much softer.  The course has played pretty firm, tee to green.  The greens have been relatively soft this week, but tee to green the ball has run out.  So I think tomorrow the course will play longer.  It will play longer, but you also won't get quite as crazy bounces on the fairways, so the ball may stay on the fairway a little bit more.
So it's kind of a little bit of a double -- you can see probably a lot of different clubs being hit, a lot more club even off the tee, some tees, some greens.  I don't know.  I mean, if it's soft just like it has been, be aggressive.  I've been pretty aggressive with my iron play and been really controlling my distance very well.  If it's soft as well, there are going to be some longer shots, but can still hopefully be aggressive.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT