THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 11, 2015
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Another good round, building on yesterday.  Talk me through how the last two days have gone for you?  
MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, the first two days have definitely gone well.  I've made quite a few birdies, hit a lot of good shots.  I mean, the thing about this golf course is if you're on, you can certainly get it close to the pins and make birdies, and if you're off, it can be disaster on some of these holes, even if you're off by just a little bit.   
But I've been able to keep the ball in play, and the few poor shots I've hit, I've been able to get up-and-down and make a couple good pars.   
So it's been -- I got off to a poor start today, bogeying the first hole, but it was raining and it was kind of chilly, and I didn't let that bother me and just kept trying to plug along and make more birdies as the day progressed and was able to do so.   
 Q.  Do you feel like this is a course where over the next two days you're going to have to be picking up birdies whenever you get the chance because there will be some low scores being put up?  
MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, definitely.  I would certainly like to make more birdies through the next couple days, and that's going to be my goal, because like I said, you can be aggressive out here and get rewarded if you're hitting it well and if you hit your target.  I'm going to go out there and see what tomorrow and Sunday gives me and hopefully it gives me some birdies.   
 Q.  Do you feel a sense of confidence and comfort at the moment with how you're playing?  
MORGAN PRESSEL: Definitely.  I mean, any time you really shoot 65, I mean, it's hard to nit-pick, but I'm going to go, and I didn't hit my driver as well on the front nine as I would have liked, so there are certainly things that I can improve on.  But I feel like mentally I stayed tough and battled through, made some birdies even after hitting poor drives, so I think that was important today, as well.   
 Q.  Any huge birdies that stuck out?  I'm sure the last hole stuck out a little bit.  
MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, that would have been nice to make that putt at the end there.  But any birdies that stuck out?  I would say -- I mean, the birdie on 18 -- I had four birdies on the back nine that were only -- that were inside of two feet, 12, 15 -- 15 I got a little bit of a lucky bounce.  It wasn't as good of a shot, but 12 was a really good shot.  16 was a really good shot, and 18 was a really good shot, and they were all inside of two feet.  So that makes it a little bit easier.   
And then I gave myself some chances on the back nine, made a couple of them and left a couple out there.  I had two good up-and-downs out of bunkers today, so that just kind of saved the round a little bit.  A good putt probably on 5 was important, probably about seven feet.  So things like that can make or break a round out here.   
 Q.  Really great performances in majors this year so far; what's been the difference?  Clearly you like the big stage and you're comfortable in them now, but three top 5s is the best --  
MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, I mean, sometimes it just comes together, and there's no rhyme or reason.  I've certainly tried to prepare my hardest for the majors.  I had a really good session last week with my coach Ron Stockton for three days at home where I just really, really prepared hard for these two weeks.  I think that was definitely helpful.   
But I feel like my attitude is just a little bit different, a little bit better, and sometimes that can make all the difference.  I mean, you can hit the ball well, but if you come unglued when one thing goes wrong, especially out here on this golf course, so I've tried to --   
 Q.  Bring the positive attitude.  
MORGAN PRESSEL: I've tried to stay very positive, and when bad breaks happen just take them.  I mean, there are birdies to be made out there, so if you can get over some of the rough bounces you get out here and move forward, then do okay.   
 Q.  We're here with Morgan Pressel, 6-under today, Morgan, 65, just one shot off the lead going into the weekend.  How do you feel with your position today?  
MORGAN PRESSEL: Oh, well, I certainly felt like I played well out there the last two days.  Yesterday, as well.  Yesterday was almost like I just tried to play the par-5s as poorly as possible.  I managed to do that.  But today I played them a little bit better, as well as playing the 3s and 4s well, and managed to post a good number.   
 Q.  There's a lot of low numbers but a lot of high numbers, and experience is probably playing a role this week on where to miss, where not to miss.  How much has it been playing a role for you?  
MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, I think it's that type of a golf course in general.  If you are on and hit your targets, especially on these greens, you can have short putts for birdies.  But if you miss it, sometimes by a couple feet, it could spell double bogey.  You've got to be on this week, especially with your ball-striking, and I think that's why you see such a discrepancy in the scores.   
You know, for me I've played here -- this is my 10th year but only the third year on this new golf course, but it's still similar.  It's still, you know how everything breaks towards the lake and just where some of the bounces, where you need to be to get the bounces and places that you need to avoid.   
 Q.  In the hunt for your second major championship; what are the keys going to be for this weekend to get that title?  
MORGAN PRESSEL: Just keep playing the way that I've been playing.  I'm going to go to the range this afternoon and work a little bit more on what my coach and I have been working on over the last week or so and try and battle it out the next two days because it's a major championship, and it'll be a grind.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT