CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 15, 2015
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You seem to be getting better and better every day, 71‑67‑65. I understand two days in a row, nine birdies each of the last two rounds. What's clicked? 
MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, definitely my putting. I mean, you don't make nine birdies if you can't get it in the hole, and I've made a lot of putts. You know, anything really within 10 feet, I made a lot, a lot of birdie chances. I think I need to hit it a little bit closer and hit a few more shots in the fairway. I missed a few too many tee balls, but I think I hit 16 greens today or something like that, and I gave myself a lot of chances, and nine of them went in.

Q. You've been working very hard with your teacher Ron Stockton, who's here on‑site, and I understand there's a little tweak, some secret you changed in your putting. Will you share that with us?
MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, I was just a little bit open and hitting kind of almost cutting my putts and was just really struggling to keep them on line, so I squared up with it, and I feel very comfortable, especially the last couple days, getting the ball started on the right line and seeing the speed. 

Q. You're currently solo second, just three back from the lead. How do you feel about your round today?
MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, I feel like I played really well today. Definitely made a lot of putts, had a lot of birdies the last couple of days. I mean, to think that when I made the turn yesterday, I was even par for the championship, maybe 1‑under, and I'm 12‑under since then. I've been playing pretty well the last 36 holes or so, and just got to keep it going for one more day.

Q. You've had five top 5s already this season, but you've struggled here in recent weeks. What changed for you out there this week? 
MORGAN PRESSEL: I feel like I'm really putting better than I have been. I gave myself a lot of opportunities. I love this golf course. I love playing here in Portland, and I have a great support group out watching me, so it's a lot of fun. You know, I haven't had the results that I've wanted, but I've still kept plugging along and trying to improve every day, and it's still what I'm trying to do out there no matter what. 

Q. Well, if things continue the way they look now, you'll probably be grouped with Brooke Henderson in the final round tomorrow. You guys were actually grouped together also at Swinging Skirts when she was in contention. She said that you're an idol to her. How does that feel to then be paired with her again tomorrow possibly?
MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, I mean, Brooke is a great player. I mean, to Monday qualify and obviously be playing this well, she knows what's at stake for her. She wants to get on Tour without having to go to Q‑school, and she's certainly putting herself in a great position to do that, and I would love to play together again tomorrow. She's a great girl, and she has a lot of potential for sure.

Q. What's your game plan Sunday? You're just a few strokes back, to be able to close in and get that win. 
MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, I'll take another nine birdies tomorrow. I think I need to just give myself a lot of opportunities and eliminate a couple of the sloppy mistakes that I've made the last few days, and I think it'll put me up there towards the end tomorrow. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT