MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 15, 2015
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Like to welcome Morgan Pressel to the media center.   Fifth last week.   That's now 5 Top 10s in your last ten starts.   What's gotten into you recently? 
MORGAN PRESSEL:   If I had the answer, I don't know, I would bottle it up and sell it, I guess.   I've certainly been scoring better, been playing better, more confident. 
I think a lot of it has been my driving.   Definitely getting my tee balls in the fairway, a little bit more confident with my driver, and that's kind of freed up the rest of my game and gave me a lot more birdie opportunities. 
It's something I had been struggling with a little while.   I mean, I don't know.   It's like the chicken and the egg:   Am I playing better because I'm happier?   Am I happier because I'm playing better?   It's one of those weird things.
I'm enjoying being on the golf course more, and I think that has a lot to do with it. 
THE MODERATOR:   You've had two runner‑ups here.   Feel like you're pretty close to getting a win here, as well.
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Yeah, I love playing here.   I love coming here to Toledo.   It's kind of like a hometown event for me in a sense with my family being from the Detroit area.   A lot of family and friends get to come watch.
I love this golf course.   Like you said, I've had great success here and I have great memories.   I always look forward to coming back.   I think we're going to have a great week here again. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   You mentioned your confidence and timing lately.   What other parts of your game sets up for this course, and how do you think it sets up this week? 
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Yeah, well, there are some really big trees around this golf course.   As long as you can stay in the fairway and stay away from the trees, it fits well.
But I have always loved this golf course.   I feel like it fits my game, especially if I can get it in the fairway.   You need to be aggressive with your irons and make a lot of birdies.   That's the way this golf course sets up.
It played a little more difficult today with the north wind.   I think some of the harder holes play into the wind and played longer.   But I don't think the wind is supposed to keep up, so it'll go back to how it usually does with the prevailing winds and get out there and make as many birdies as you can. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MORGAN PRESSEL:   I mean, yeah, I guess if you went back you would say, yes, probably the best tournament I've had, yes.   I don't know if it exactly is, but I would guess probably. 

Q.   (Question regarding injuries. )
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Definitely after having gone through a lot of problems with my wrist and just not even being able to practice and play as much or as well as I would like to.
And being healthy, I think I have also more appreciation for being healthy, and I am trying to take advantage of that.
Nothing lasts forever.   Certainly hope my body continues to hold up.   After having gone through that rough stretch, it was definitely an eye opener, to, you know, just take advantage of the opportunities that I have while they're out here. 
It is nice to be able to practice the way that I would like to as well and put in the time and have my body respond properly to it. 

Q.   (Question regarding driver length. )
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Yeah, definitely a few things that‑‑ I mean, one of the biggest things is I changed golf balls this year.   Playing the new Callaway Chrome Soft Ball.   It goes quite a bit further, and I think that's quite a big reason why I've picked up some distance.
I am covering the ball a little bit better.   We've been working mechanically on my golf swing to be in a impact position, in a sense.   I think that's helped as well. 
But just a lot of hard work. 

Q.   Three top fives in majors recently.   What's been the thing that's allowed you to bring the best at the majors? 
MORGAN PRESSEL:   It's an interesting thing, because we all want to do well in majors.   Those are the biggest events of the year and the ones you really want to bring your A‑Game for. 
Even though I wouldn't say I've had my A‑Game, I've mentally plowed through those weeks.   That's what majors do, is they test not just your golf game and your mechanics, but your mental strength.
I think that's kind of been my key going through the majors.   Even forgetting about bad shots, moving forward and really, really trying to grind hard throughout the entire week. 
I mean, I've just really been trying to focus my season on the majors.   There is another one coming up here in a couple weeks, so definitely already thinking a little bit ahead towards that for sure. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MORGAN PRESSEL:   A little bit more relaxed.   I'm looking forward to enjoying time with my family this week and having fun playing in front of this crowd on this golf course. 
Yes, it's a little bit less stressful, a little less of that kind of stuff.   That doesn't mean I don't want to do well or I'm not trying.   I don't mean it that way.   But this golf course in general, yes, like I said, you have to make birdies, but it's also not as penal as a U.S.   Open golf course. 
So it's not the same kind of mental test as you would have in an event like that. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MORGAN PRESSEL:   You know, golf is interesting.   I can only control what I can control:   that's how quickly I can get the golf ball in the hole.   I feel like I'm making so much progress, so I'm not tremendously frustrated.   I'm just looking forward to the weeks ahead and hoping that I can continue to improve every day.
If I go out there and play my every day, I can go home happy, so...
THE MODERATOR:   Any more questions, guys?   Perfect.   Thanks so much Morgan for coming in. 
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT