U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2015
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  How do you assess your round today?  MORGAN PRESSEL: I thought I had a good round.  I gave myself a lot of chances.  I got off to a little bit of a poor swing on 3, started off with an early bogey, but rebounded well, birdied the next hole. I didn't get quite enough putts to go in.  That putt on 16 was definitely an important putt that I didn't make.  But I hung in there. I felt like I played pretty solid this week considering wasn't the best golf I could play, but I managed to get it around pretty well.   Q.  What are your takeaways from this course?  MORGAN PRESSEL: I love this golf course.  It was almost like it would have been built for me.  It's old school, really traditional, long rough, greens that have some pretty severe slopes.  And it's the type of golfing of I've always loved to play, and a true Open tough test of golf. So I've really enjoyed being here and the community has certainly made the event special, as well.   Q.  The reception here, talk about that, the record crowds?  MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, yeah, I mean the reception of us here, I've never seen anything like it, even in other U.S. Opens that we've played.  We've certainly always had great crowds, but nothing like here.  And I really could feel like they were all pulling for me personally, as well, so that was really nice.  I heard a lot of cheers for me.  So I really appreciated being embraced by the local community, for sure.   Q.  Do you really feel like this is unique as U.S. Women's go?  MORGAN PRESSEL: In terms of the crowd and the people?   Q.  Just the atmosphere.  MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, I mean it's the biggest tournament of the year, it always has a great atmosphere and a great tension level to it.  And the crowd this week has certainly added to that. It's fun.  It's fun to hear -- be on one hole, especially the way this golf course goes back and forth, you can hear roars from all over the golf course.  Yesterday I think I was on the first hole when I heard the cheer for the hole-in-one on 6.  It kind of gave me chills, because it was so loud and there were so many people there watching it.  It's very special to play in front of these kind of crowds that really, really love us being here.   Q.  How does your game feel for the British Open?  MORGAN PRESSEL: I feel good.  I feel like I definitely have some work to do, things that I need to work on. I'm playing next week in Toledo and then in Grand Rapids, two kind of hometown tournaments for me.  So I'm looking forward to that. I've never played Turnberry, so it will be interesting to see it.  I felt like I've gotten progressively better over the years at playing British Open golf courses.  So I'm definitely looking forward to playing in the British Open.  I've played fairly well so far in the majors this year, and hopefully I can get it done there.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT