U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2015
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What was the story of your day?MORGAN PRESSEL: You know, I thought I had a pretty good day out there.  I hit 15 greens, gave myself a lot of chances.  It definitely wasn't as stressful of a day as yesterday.  I felt like I controlled my golf ball very well.  I just didn't make any putts.  But I'm not -- I felt like I hit good putts, some of them I couldn't get to the hole. It's tough when you have an 8-footer that breaks five feet to hit it firm, firmly enough to get it there, especially when it's downhill, side hill.  These greens are just tricky and I just didn't get anything to go in today.Q. Were you surprised when you looked up at the board and saw somebody that was 7-under?MORGAN PRESSEL: I was playing with her.  No, I watched her all day.  She just played fantastically well, hit a lot of really quality shots.  A lot of really close looks at birdie.  And she played great.Q. You seem real frustrated at I think it was 17 when one came up short.  Was it hard to get yourself -- it seems like it's a common thing -- to get it to the hole out here?MORGAN PRESSEL: The greens are definitely slow, I think.  Three of us had uphill putts on 16 and none of us got it within a foot and a half.  We all left it.  That's not just a little bit short, that's a lot short.  And 17 the same. Doesn't matter how -- you know you have to hit it firmly to get it there, and it still comes up short.  So it doesn't matter how many times you tell yourself to give it a good whack, it still came up short.  So I was a little frustrated with that on 17.  But you don't want to leave yourself with three feet coming back down the hill, either.Q. What's the plan for the weekend?MORGAN PRESSEL: Just stick to the game plan.  Like I said, I felt good out there today.  I felt like I played well and just seemed to keep doing more of the same and hopefully a few more putts will go in. There's a lot of golf left to play, and it will only get more challenging as the week progresses.Q. Do you feel like the golf course is changing?MORGAN PRESSEL: I don't think the golf course is necessarily changing that much.  It may have firmed up a touch in terms of the fairways might have rolled out a little bit more today.  But not much.  There was quite a bit of rain last night, we just ended up playing in the afternoon today. I just think some of the pins will get more challenging, some of the tees will go further back, and that's how they'll change the course through the weekend.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT