SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
May 31, 2015
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I know you gotta be kind of bummed, but gotta feel pretty good, too, about another third?  
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Yeah.   I mean I just didn't make anything today.   I didn't hit it quite as well.   Certainly made a mess of 6 and 7 and got behind the eight ball early, and these greens are just a little bit too bumpy to make a ton of putts out here, even with good strokes.   
So I just had way too many putts today, and you're not going to win a tournament hitting 2‑over on Sunday.  
   
 Q.   Was it tough to come back after the double bogey?   You were playing pretty good and then the double happened.   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Yeah.   I didn't feel like I‑‑ I mean I was upset that it happened, but I don't think that I let it affect me going forward.   
No, I think I just‑‑ I mean I knew that I was still in it.   I mean I certainly was.   Just kept plugging along and trying to make more birdies.  
   
 Q.   Two birdies right after that, too, though.   That's gotta feel pretty good; right?  
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Yeah, like I said, I mean I think that's a difference in me now is patience that I have for poor shots and myself and just I was able to forget about it and move forward.  
   
 Q.   How good does the swing feel right now?   You were hitting some great shots out there all week.   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Yeah, it's kind of in the middle.   It's still‑‑ I mean since I've been working on it, I mean I've been in a lot of final groups, and that puts a lot of pressure on the swing.   That's probably the most pressure you have out here in tournament competition is playing in the final group and having a chance to win.  
And it progresses every tournament when you get back out there, pressure makes you swing a little bit faster, a little bit harder, and I wasn't quite as good with that today as I was for the first couple days.   And it's getting closer, so just gotta keep getting after it and working hard, and you know, definitely looking forward to next week and KPMG.  
   
 Q.   Right time to be playing well, too; right?  
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Yeah.   I mean it's always a good time to play well.   So I just gotta‑‑ I know that what I'm working on is the right thing, and I think that's what gives me confidence heading into the big summer stretch.   And just gotta make a few more putts.  
   
 Q.   R b c event tomorrow with Brooke.   How neat is that?   She grew up your kind of idol.   She was once that junior that y'all will be giving a clinic to tomorrow.   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Yeah.   It's special.   I've done actually a couple of r b c events with Brooke in the past, and you know, it will be a fun day.   She's obviously a great competitor, and I think the tour will see a lot more of her in the future.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT