KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 14, 2015
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What was working out there for you today?   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Um, I just played pretty steady out there today.   I don't think I hit the ball quite as well as I would've liked to, but made a few really good up and downs.   Made birdie when I had the opportunity.   
The good up and downs certainly were part of the reason why I had no bogeys.   It was just a solid day.   
   
 Q.   What does it mean to be in this position where you are now, first day?  
MORGAN PRESSEL:   It's nice to get off to a good start.   Leaves a good feeling going into the rest of the week.  
Going to go work a little bit on my swing so I have a good feeling going into tomorrow as well.   You never know what'll happen.   
   
 Q.   Go through a few of your better holes today, if you would, please.   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   I almost had a hole in one, that was exciting, on 17.   So it was like a couple inches.  
Then I hit it over the green in two on 7.   Had a pretty easy up and down from the back of the green for a nice birdie.  
Like I said, a couple really good up and downs.   Really good up and down on 12 from right to a right pin from down in the little valley.   
On the first hole, I think the 10th hole of the golf course, my first hole of the day, I had really, really good up and down from the left side.  
Kind of nicer to start with a par than with a bogey, so I think that was also important.  
   
 Q.   Talk about 18.   We were there.   Nice putt there.   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Yeah, definitely.   That was probably the longest putt that I made today, about 20, 25 feet, and put myself in good position.  
It's a tough hole, especially with the pin on the right side, as everything likes it repel balls towards the left side of the green.   Just left myself with a pretty straightforward putt up the hill.  
   
 Q.   How you been doing and how does this calibrate into what you have been doing?  
MORGAN PRESSEL:   I have been slowly progressing this year.   So I am giving myself opportunities, and, I mean, I know that I'm capable of playing well.   I'm confident in my game, so I just need to carry that into the rest of the week and hopefully be in contention come Sunday afternoon.  
   
 Q.   Did making the playoff in‑‑ it was an San Francisco, right, where you were in the playoff?   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Uh‑huh.  
   
 Q.   Did that week really fuel your confidence further?  
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Well, definitely.   I mean, I played well even coming down the stretch.   I made a couple mistakes, but I still felt like I was in control and confident out there.   
I mean, I didn't end up winning the tournament, but it was nice to feel comfortable being in that position since I hadn't been there in quite some time, and to feel good about my game.  
   
 Q.   Does it take a while to get accustomed to the maybe Sunday butterflies again?   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   I mean, the more you put yourself in that position the more comfortable you become.   I didn't feel like I had a whole lot Sunday butterflies.   That in itself was definitely a good sign.   I felt like I was in control of my swing and of my game and that I could play being in that position.  
That was important.   
   
 Q.   Lydia Ko was saying yesterday that you're one of the people she would come to for advice.   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Oh, she's cute.  
   
 Q.   What kind of advice do you give younger players?  
MORGAN PRESSEL:   For me, looking back, I mean, it's crazy.   This is my tenth year on tour, and to think I'm giving advice to younger players.   But I think that I wish that I wasn't quite as hard on myself out here.  
It's a tough adjustment, especially in the position where Lydia is, where everybody wants a piece of your time.   She's got to learn to say no.  
But I've said this before:   she doesn't want any advice from me.   She seems like she's doing just fine doing whatever she's doing, and it's very impressive to watch.  
   
 Q.   Are you still staying with the same host family you have been for a while?   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Yeah, I've been staying with the same family for, I don't know, the last handful of the years.   It's great to feel like I'm at home and to be with friends.   I always enjoy coming here.  
   
 Q.   What kind of relationship is it and what kind of relationship has been built over time just staying with the same family?   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Well, they're family friends from Michigan that ended up moving here.   It's nice to keep in touch with them.   It's kind of just a catch‑up week where we talk about all the exciting stuff that's happened over the past year.   
It's nice that they came out and watched today and cheered for me all day, so that's pretty special.   
   
 Q.   Past Hurst was talking about earlier in her career she felt burnt out and she took a year off.   Can you imagine doing that?   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   I think it's challenging to do, but I understand being burnt out.   In that sense I understand.   I understand why she did it.   Seems like it's given her, I don't know, a little bit of a spark to move forward and enjoy being out here.   
Like I said, I really feel like when I was younger I really put a lot of pressure on myself, and there were certainly times where I didn't necessarily enjoy being out here.   
I think as I've grown on tour I've learned more so how to do that.  
   
 Q.   But you weren't to the point of being burnt out.   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   I don't know.   You could argue that.   I've always played through kind of my struggles.   But if I look back, I wish I would've taken more time off when my wrist was bothering me and trying to heal instead of trying to play through it.   Those are things you learn.  
But I certainly didn't enjoy being out on the golf course during the tough times.   Just got to fight through it.   
   
 Q.   Another week and you're up on the leaderboard again.   What were the keys to your round today?   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   I think I just played solid.   I didn't really make a whole ton of mistakes today, and the ones I did I recovered from nicely with good up and downs, a couple good ten‑footers for par, and was able to convert the birdie opportunities that I did have.   
   
 Q.   You changed your swing not too long ago.   What's the status there?   How are things coming along with figuring out your distances and things like that again?   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   It's in the middle.   We're kind of halfway there.   Definitely more so than before I changed my swing.   So it's a nice change.  
But even this afternoon I need to go to the range and hit some golf balls and get some repetitions in.   I don't know exactly what happened out there.   My coach is here, so we'll talk about why I hit some of the squirrelly shots out there and try and fix it for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   This is one of the events that everybody seems to come back to.   Veterans kind of all have a reason why they love this place.   What is it for you?  
MORGAN PRESSEL:   I think first and foremost it's a fantastic golf course.   I think we all like coming to a place that we feel comfortable and we enjoy playing.  
It's a tough golf course, but it's a fabulous golf course.   Definitely I think is a great test of golf.   They know how to run a golf tournament here.   They've had so much history here with professional golf.   I mean, look at the fans out here today.   It's a lot of fun to play in front of these crowds.  
I think there are so many reasons why this tournament gets such a great field.   We all like to play.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT