SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CTBC
April 23, 2015
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MORGAN PRESSEL:   Have to be accurate off the tee.   I think about last year when I played this golf course and I had absolutely no confidence in my tee shots.
This year it's taken a lot of pressure off the rest of my game, especially today, just being able to hit almost every fairway. 
I only hit really two poor drives, so that's been really the difference.   I mean, everything is really solid, but my driver putting me in play has eased the rest of the game.

Q.   Hitting longer it seems like?
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Yeah, hitting it really well.   Really solid, confident, so I can step up there and give it a good swing.   You know, I like what I'm working on.   Just feel good over the golf ball.

Q.   The length, is that a product of everything, club, stronger, everything?
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Yeah.   I mean, it's a little bit of everything.   I mean, I've kind of definitely noticed a difference since I put the new Chrome Soft Ball in play. 
I mean, my swing, like I said, I'm swinging more confidently at it, so that combination of a little bit more speed and a different golf ball I think has helped.
Just over the last couple years, dog a lot of yoga has helped my strength.   Those three things combined have all helped.

Q.   And after ANA you said that you saw even room for more improvement. 
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Always room.

Q.   Have you and Ron gotten together since then?
MORGAN PRESSEL:   We haven't seen each other since then, no.   Just send a lot of videos.   I am always tweaking it and working on the range. 
Just been spending the last few weeks really kind of grinding hard to get it there.   It's still not perfect, but I feel better and it's easier to do the on the golf course over.   Over the next few months or however long it takes, next few years I don't know, we'll continue to fine tune it and try and get it to where we want it to be.

Q.   Talked to Juli about the Solheim Cup group.   With this being a Solheim Cup year, seems things are falling into place for you nicely.   Is that a lot of motivation?
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Definitely a lot of motivation.   I certainly want to go to Germany to play for Juli. 
I think I learned a lot a couple years ago kind of putting too much pressure on myself to make the Solheim Cup team.
This is probably the best I've done at not thinking about it out on the golf course.   I think a couple years ago it really kind of consumed my thoughts.
So if I play well, it'll take care of itself.   Easier to say than do, but that's kind of my goal.   I really have not been thinking about it very much on the golf course.   I think that's part of reason too I've been able to finish tournaments and not worry about rankings or top 20 or anything like that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT