ANA INSPIRATION
April 4, 2015
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. A few bogeys on the scorecard today but a lot of birdies.  Just go through your round, what was good, what was bad for you today?MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, nothing was really quite super sharp, but I gave myself some birdie opportunities and made some good up-and-downs when I needed to.  My putting kind of let me down today I would say more than anything, especially on the last few holes, but I'll work on that, and hopefully can get a few to roll in tomorrow.  I'm certainly not out of it, but not in the best position I could be or could have been certainly.  It was just an up-and-down day.Q. On a positive note, you've made a lot of birdies this week, so if anybody has a chance to get back in it, you certainly do, and you also have a lot of experience on this golf course.  You know what it takes to win.  What do you think from a mindset, from a mental approach on Sunday, what will be your focus?MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, for me, I'm really just trying to focus on keeping my tempo good out on the golf course because that's the biggest thing that I'm working on and keeping the club in front of me.  I mean, that's still going to be my goal going into tomorrow is to stick to my own game plan.  I know that I need so make some birdies, so on occasion I might take tighter lines to pins, but just going to go out there and try and play my best and swing within my limits and hopefully have a good day out there.Q. Just overall in terms of where you find your position at going into tomorrow, what do you think it's going to take really for anybody to kind of win?  Do you look at numbers or do you --MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, it's going to take a good round of golf.  That's what it's going to take.  There have been low scores out there all week, so it's possible.  Being four shots behind, you might need a little bit of help, but if I can get out there and get off to a good start and make some birdies, I know that it's possible.Q. For you, what's the big focus going into tomorrow?  Is there one specific thing that you work on tonight or is there anything specific that you think is going to help you for tomorrow's round?MORGAN PRESSEL: I need to figure out my putting a little bit.  I'm not tremendously comfortable right now, as it showed, so just figure out what I've been doing out there and try and fix it for tomorrow.Q. A lot of people don't know Sei Young.  She's a rookie out here.  What did you notice about her game today and what stood out to you?MORGAN PRESSEL: She's very solid.  She was very cool under pressure, played very well, gave herself a lot of chances and made a few of them.  She certainly could have made more as we both could have, but I mean, she just didn't really put herself in -- other than maybe one or two times, almost kind of felt like rookie mistakes on this golf course, just not knowing the golf course and where to hit it.  But for the most part her caddie certainly helped her find out where she needed to hit it to certain other pins.  She's just a solid player.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT