ANA INSPIRATION
April 3, 2015
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Morgan Pressel into the interview room.  I know not probably as great as the score yesterday, so probably not as enjoyable, but do you feel pretty pleased being able to come out of there with an even-par round and still sit at 5-under?   MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, I had to fight a little bit harder today.  It was a little sloppy all around.  My swing wasn't quite as sharp as it was yesterday, and I kind of made some sloppy bogeys and some really good pars, so it was kind of backwards.  Like the times you think, oh, it looked like I was in trouble to make a bogey, I'd save par, but then at times I was in the middle of the fairway with a 9-iron I'd make a really bad bogey.  I was kind of back and forth there a little bit.  I've got a few things to work on and sharpen it back up, but I think the afternoon will play fairly easy as it did this morning, or easier than yesterday's conditions.  I'll be close to the lead. I don't know if 7 will hold up or not.  But I give myself a chance for the weekend, and that's all these two days really what I can do.   THE MODERATOR: Every year it seems this course plays a little differently.  This year it seems to be playing a little tougher, lower numbers.  Is that something that suits your game?  Do you feel like you're in better contention with how it's playing out there this year?   MORGAN PRESSEL: At the end of the day you just have to play the golf course the way it sets up.  I look, I think, back in '07 how difficult the golf course played when 3-under was the winning score, so I think right now through two days it's probably playing a little bit harder than it has the last few years.  But lately the winning score has been somewhere in the 15, 16 range.  I don't know exactly what it is, but you've got to get there.  There's birdie opportunities on this golf course to be made, and that's kind of how you have to approach -- that's how I tried to approach bogeys today.  I was like, you know, it's okay, I've got plenty of opportunities on this golf course to make birdies.  I kind of battled my way back and then fell a little bit.  I was all over the place.  But it was okay.   THE MODERATOR: The tough one is going to be you are going to be teeing off later tomorrow afternoon, and your husband is a Michigan State fan, so that going to be a little difficult for you to have -- is he ready for that, to be watching the Final Four game and --   MORGAN PRESSEL: He's a Michigan State fan, not me.  I don't care.   Q.  Great par on 1.  Everybody in this room has hit an opening tee shot like that, we just don't expect it from a major champion.  What was going on there, and how difficult was it mentally to overcome something like that?  MORGAN PRESSEL: I'm not really sure what happened on the first hole.  I kind of did a similar thing yesterday on the first tee, as well, on the other tee.  I don't really know.  I just didn't get through the shot like I wanted to, and that was kind of my miss today, a little bit low and left on a few drives that kind of went astray.  But what am I going to do?  I hit it there, now all I can do is try and make par. Even better than that was the fact that like my lay-up went into a divot, so then I was hitting from a divot.  I go, oh, even all this and I still have to be in a divot, but then I hit a good shot out of that, so I was pleased with a par.  I was happy to walk away from that first hole with a par for sure.   Q.  When you're struggling like that, what kind of mentality does it take to hang in there?  What are you telling yourself?  MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, I mean, I've just got to keep grinding it out, really.  I was out there still trying to focus on some of the key swing thoughts that I'm working on and trying to feel the positions because I wasn't quite getting through the ball.  So I just -- I mean, I tried to stay aggressive enough through the shot that I could -- I would say the last four holes and the last four approach shots I hit it much, much better.  At least I can walk off the golf course saying, okay, I feel like I felt a lot better about my swing.  I was kind of getting a little bit underneath and left some shots out to the right early in the round with my irons. But I mean, like I said, I just tried to feel like there were birdies to be made out there, and I stayed patient.  It's only -- yeah, it's nice to be in the lead, but it's only the second day, so I just wanted to keep giving myself opportunities.  That's kind of what I said to Rock at the turn.  I said, we need to have more birdie chances because I just wasn't hitting it very close where I had many opportunities.  So then I birdied 1 and 2, but then a poor bogey on 3, but just kept it going.  I felt the last four holes I had good birdie opportunities.  None of them went in, but I felt better about my swing, so going to go after this and work it out a little bit and try to make some more birdies tomorrow.   Q.  Ron said that after you parted ways after the Open you wanted to kind of figure out your swing yourself a little bit and understand your swing a little better.  What did you learn in that time off when you were without an instructor about yourself, and how did that help you maybe when you started again?  MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, I just think that I gained quite a bit of feel.  Sometimes, I mean, I more so than anybody can get as technical as possible out there.  Sometimes that's a detriment.  You need to be a lot more free.  I think even though my swing wasn't mechanically sound, I found a way to get the ball down the fairway.  I struggled for a little bit, but I finally kind of figured it out, and so that felt correction that I was kind of able to learn from that I think has helped now having these things that I'm working on, kind of being able to free it up on the golf course, but still when a hit a poor shot know why, why did I do that and how can I correct it going forward.  Kind of golf course self-correction I think was a big thing that was helpful in just getting out there and trying to do it on my own.   Q.  So is that like little nine-month stretch the first time you haven't worked with anyone since age eight?  MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT