CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 21, 2014
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Good afternoon everyone.   We would like to welcome in Morgan Pressel who just shot a 6‑under, 66.   Impressive round.   What was really working well in your game out there today?   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   I think I just really stayed solid out there today.   It was very windy and gusty especially, so I certainly had to back off some shots.  
I was able to recommit when I needed to and just stay on target.   Played ‑‑ safe is not right word, but really didn't put myself into any trouble.   
Maybe the couple hiccups that I had I was able to make good par putts.  
MODERATOR:   We were joking as we walked up here.   You were busy last night ans you've been busy all week really.   Keeping your schedule so busy, has that helped the golf game?   Hosting?   Talking a little fashion?  
MORGAN PRESSEL:   I love talking fashion, so last night was a lot of the fun on the red carpet.  
But, yeah, this has probably been the busiest week I've had all year in terms of extracurricular activities.   I'm kind of excited tonight I don't have any.   I don't really know what to do with myself.   
But it's been a really, really great week from the Kia Awards to announcing the ANA Inspiration, to last night's Rolex Awards celebration.   Everything about this week is really, really special.   So it's nice to be here part of CME Race to the Globe.   It's such an exciting finish for our season.   
I don't know.   I'm going to have to have find something to do tonight.   I don't know.  
MODERATOR:   Just want to ask you real quick, I don't a lot media of the was there when you received that award, but to receive they Kia Community Assist Award, I know that's a special award in that it's not based on the on‑course performance but what you do off of it.   
You're so great in terms of what you've done with your foundation.   What did it mean to be able to celebrate with all the people that have helped you achieve all that you achieved so far?   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Thank you.   It was such an honor to receive that award.   I have to thank Kia for the last three years recognizing players' efforts off the golf course in the community field, in the charity felled.   
It really is one the most exciting and rewarding things that we do.   All the different players have their own different charities and causes that they support.  
So thank you to Kia for recognizing our efforts.   I had a few people who were very involved in the foundation came over from Boca to watch the ceremony.   It was neat.   We had a group picture at the end.   
They're the ones who really work hard and make it all possible.   I was very grateful that they could all be there, and I'll share it with the rest of the crew when I get home.  
MODERATOR:   Questions.  
   
 Q.   As much as the 66 is good stuff today, it would seem like talking to you yesterday that the key to the week so far was the recovery from your start?  
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Yeah, I felt like I've been playing well the last few weeks, but on occasionI don't ‑‑ maybe mentally sloppy.  
I think that's what happens yesterday morning.   I kind of got off to a bad start.   I was 3‑over through 10 holes and it wasn't looking good.  
But I was able to rally back and get it to even par yesterday.   I think that set up for the rest of the three days.  
I know it's a long tournament, and you start 3‑over through 10 and it looks kind of dire.   I was able to not get too far ahead of myself and get too far out of it and get right back in the tournament.  
Of course today's round helped that as well.  
   
 Q.   This might not affect you one way or the other, but from our standpoint we're spending so much time on Top 3 and all the awards at stake, and the top nine, et cetera.   In your standpoint, is it at all a benefit to just have one thing to worry about, and that's just play the tournament?  
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Well, definitely I haven't put myself in the position this year to worry about $1 million or anything like that.   But there is still a lot up for grabs in this tournament, just as there is every other week.  
I mean, winning this tournament would be an incredible cap to the season.   Yes, I don't have the pressure that some of the other with some of the season‑ending Player of the Year and Vare Trophy and all the other things that are up four grabs this week, but I'm just here plugging along trying to win a golf tournament.  
MODERATOR:   Still have $500,000 though for that first place.   That would be a pretty nice paycheck I think to take home.   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Yeah, that would.   I'm worried about the trophy, and that comes with it.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned that you like the way you've been playing.   Obviously off to a good start in this tournament.   Do you see this use as a launching spot for you for 2015?   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Well, definitely I feel like I've learned a lot this year about myself.   I kind of had to do a lot of self‑correction in terms of my golf game this year.  
I feel like I have my feel back.   I know what I need to work on.   I feel good about my game right now.   I'm still ready for the off‑season.   Still ready for a break and the holidays.   
But last night was definitely inspiring seeing those girls up on stage, Inbee and Stacy, who are fighting for Vare Trophy and Player of the Year.   I would love to be up there.   There is no reason I can't be next year.  
Definitely going to finish out this week strong and go into the off‑season, take a little bit of a break, but then get back to work.   Ocala is going to be here before we know it.  
Definitely need to get the game back in shape and ready to play next spring.  
   
 Q.   Did you ever have to work through the high expectations when you first came on the tour?   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   I've always been pretty hard on myself, so that's probably where most of the expectations come from.   Other people certainly have always had expectations on me, but I don't know if any of them have been quite as high as what I've had on myself.  
I haven't lived up to them.   I have certainly fallen short of what I felt like I could accomplish.   Sometimes it's just you getting in your own way.   That's certainly been my problem.  
I'm starting to enjoy being out here more and trying to get out of my own way and let myself play golf and not get too upset over bad shots.  
I know that a rally could be right around the corner.  
   
 Q.   Some of those corrections you were talking about during the season, you think that's levelled you out, helping you with the consistency?  
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Definitely.   The fact that I've had to work through a little bit on my own almost made me that much more alert when it went wrong.   I could fix it quicker because I had really been through it already and figured it out on my own.   That has helped.   
I feel like I've played well for a few months.   There have been some moments where I've struggled, kind of regressed a little bit, but I knew what I needed to do to get it back on track.  
   
 Q.   I have two questions.   One that Steve wants me to ask as a follow‑up.   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Steve, why don't you ask it?  
STEVE:   I can't get the microphone.   
   
 Q.   He wants to know what the corrections are.   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Well, I was really, really far underneath it, and also I was taking it back way outside.   I had a little bit of a help from a couple friends who got me to strengthen my grip.  
I think with my left side issue that I've been struggling with with my hand and shoulder over the last couple years, even though it hasn't been bothering me this year, I think I started to get my grip a little bit weak to protect it.   Which also happened two years ago.  
So just got to keep working and reminding myself that it needs to be‑‑ and it still isn't strong, but it's strong compared to how I feel ‑‑ where it feels comfortable to me.  
So I've been working on that a lot, and that kind of gets everything back into position.   If you want me to go through the 500 things that I think about when I hit a golf shot I can do that, but...  
Just a lot of swing playing and definitely a grip change has helped a lot.   Realizing why my grip has gotten weak has really helped.  
   
 Q.   You grew up in Florida but don't get to play many tour events here.   How helpful is it to be able to play on Florida courses?  
MORGAN PRESSEL:   It's awesome.   It's great to play only two hours from where I live.   I have quite a few friends who have come over to watch this week.   My grandparents are here.   We don't get the opportunity, like you said.  
There were a couple years where we didn't play in Florida at all.   This isn't really Florida weather, so I feel bad for everybody who came here expecting that.   Hopefully the next two days it'll be a little bit better.  
I feel comfortable on the grass.   It's what I grew up on.   I know how it reacts and how to play different shots.   
   
 Q.   Was there a shot or a putt that got you going or kept you going today?   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Well, I hit a really good shot on the first hole, into the first hole, to about five feet, and made that putt for birdie.   That got me off to a good start.  
Missed a, I don't want to say an easy putt, but a 10‑footer on the second hole for birdie.   
Then probably the third hole where I didn't hit a great chip and had 15 feet or so for par and I made that.   That was kind of, Okay, settle in and we can continue to make some birdies.  
I definitely gave myself lots of chances today, and I was lucky enough to make a few of them.   
MODERATOR:   Any more questions for Morgan?   Morgan, I've got one last question for you.   I just saw a picture of you with one of the Wounded Warriors on the 17th hole.   As we keep talking about the $1 million and $500,000 on the line for the win, one of the really cool things is the check that's going to be presented to the Wounded Warrior Project on Sunday for all the donations that have been made by CME, for all the eagles on tour this season.   What has it been like to see some of those Warriors out there and to know what you guys have been able to give back throughout this season‑long race?   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Well, it's been great.   I was able to meet a couple of them out there on the golf course today.   Met Jason last night on the red carpet.  
Hearing their stories, I have no idea what they've been through in terms of being over, a few of them, in Iraq or Afghanistan that are here with us this week.  
That's just another life.   It's worlds away from the golf course, it seems like.   But here there are supporting us.   It's really neat to think we can play golf and help support them and their recovery back towards a normal live.  
I've been nervous every year all year trying to make eagles on Saturday, on the weekend.   That's always been in the back of my head, that I would like to make an eagle and make that contribution.  
I think I've only made one, which shows how nervous I've actually been every time.   Hopefully this weekend I would love to make a contribution.  
17 is definitely an eagle‑able hole; 6 can be as well.   So those couple holes are reachable par‑5s where I'll give myself the best shot at helping add some more money towards the Wounded Warrior Project.   
   
 Q.   How long do you envision yourself playing?   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   I don't know.   Andy's head perked up back there.   I don't know.   Right now I'm still enjoying it out here.   We have talked about having children, but I think that's still a few years away.   Whether I would be done and continue to play, I don't know.   I really can't answer.   
I'm still 26, so I have a little bit of time left to decide.   I don't know that I'll quite be Juli Inkster at 53, 54 playing in LPGA Tour events.   You never know.   
A lot of it has to do with your health and body and how it holds up.   We'll see how the next few years go and take it from there.   
   
 Q.   Right now I could be talking to four or five others, but do you feel older than you are from the standpoint, tournament older, from the standpoint that you've been competing at a high level for such a long time compared to what people think of 26?   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Do I feel old?   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like an old 26 just because...  
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Yeah, I guess I've been out here.   I think it more comes from other people, when they're surprised to hear that I'm only 26.   They think I'm a lot older than that because I have been playing in professional tournaments for long time.   This almost the end of my ninth year and I started at the U.S. Open in 2001.  
I don't necessarily feel old, but other people think I am.   (Laughter.)  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT