RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 10, 2014
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What was it like out there for you today?  
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Well, I think the conditions were certainly probably the easiest it will play all week, so I needed to get off to a good start and I did.   
I managed to hit a lot of good shots in the fairway and keep the ball in front of me.   I made a couple of mistakes, and where I did, I made good putts for par.   So that was definitely helpful out there.  
Got up‑and‑down on a couple tough bunker shots that ended up being tap‑ins, so I was happy that I made it look easier than it actually was.   I was a little disappointed with my last two holes because I had a five hybrid into 17 and a 6‑iron into 18, and parred both holes.   
But come back tomorrow, maybe eagle them both.  
   
 Q.   And do you have to change your‑‑ adjust your game plan this morning because the wind was so much less than it has been‑‑ had been?   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   There were a couple holes where I had to change that more off the tee, where I just changed different clubs that I was hitting.   We have the yardages as to how far we want it to go, but that's the thing about this golf course is whether the wind is up or from the left or from the right.   You never know, so every day, you could be playing a completely different golf course, and I think that's the unique thing about links golf is you're always going to end up with something unexpected and something that you didn't prepare for.  
   
 Q.   And you had the first round‑‑ what is it about this tournament and getting off to a about start, how important is that to you?  
MORGAN PRESSEL:   I think it's a confidence builder for me.   I felt good coming into this tournament.   I felt good going into St. Andrews last year and finished with a very good tournament.   I'd like to do just a little bit better this year.   
   
 Q.   And what's your game plan going to be tomorrow?   Just depend on the condition?   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   My game plan‑‑ no, my game plan is going to stay the same.   I'm just going to see what the course throws at me tomorrow and adjust my club selection accordingly.   But still, for the most part I want to play the golf course the same way and just stay out of a lot of trouble.  
   
 Q.   Finally, there's been a lot of talk about the heavy rough.   Were you able to stay out of it, and did you hit more drivers than you had planned on?   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   I hit a lot less drivers than I had planned on actually.   I ended up only hitting maybe five or six drivers and a couple of them, I won't hit driver tomorrow if it's the same conditions.   
So the rough is very, very thick.   I got into it twice‑‑ two, three times today, and it didn't‑‑ it wasn't very good for me.   I made some good putts, but it's thick and even beyond it being thick and challenging, it's challenging on your body, too.   That's kind of how I injured my wrist and arm in the first place.   So with the firm ground and the thick rough, I want to stay out of it as much as I can.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT