HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 1, 2014
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   More than, the 70 puts you right in contention going into the final day?  
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Thanks.   It was a good day out there on the golf course.   Every day I've plugged along and gotten a little bit better, working on a lot of different things and I feel like every day I'm learning a little bit more, and it's nice to be in contention on Sunday.  
   
 Q.   What in particular are you working on?   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Oh, my goodness, a lot of different things.   I've really just been trying to get into better positions with my golf swing and I changed my putting grip a little bit on the second day which really helped.   I didn't putt very well the first day.   So it was a lot of different things, I don't know where to start.   
   
 Q.   Hard to do mid‑round or mid tournament?  
MORGAN PRESSEL:   I've been tinkering the last few weeks so it's been nice to continue to play well and I feel like I'm gaining on it and hitting it better.   I still didn't hit it as well as I would have liked today but I have some great new Callaway equipment in my bag this week and at the start of the year, and the new golf ball is a real game changer for me.   I really enjoy playing it, and I think it's part of the reason why I've been playing a little bit better the beginning of this year.  
   
 Q.   Terrific to see you back in the fine form that you played with in the Stanley Cup, but 2014, do you think this is going to be a good year?   
MORGAN PRESSEL:   I feel like I'm in a different place.   I feel a little bit calmer on the golf course, and I just need to put myself in contention more often and just enjoy being there.   
  
 Q.   Birdie on 15‑‑  
MORGAN PRESSEL:   I don't want to hit that shot in again because that worked out perfectly for me and made a nice putt there.   What a tough hole, but birdies the last two days, so I'm happy with that.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT