RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 4, 2013
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You are leading this championship as we speak, and it's clearly a wonderful finish there. 
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Yeah, we were talking about whether to hit driver or 3‑wood off the 18th tee, and I was like, you know, I could probably get close to hitting that cart path if I hit driver and I did, and ended up with actually a little bit of a tricky shot with that Valley of Sin down there.   Managed to make a 20‑footer for birdie. 

Q.   Lovely way to finish and puts you in great shape.   How were the stamina levels holding up on what is a marathon day in this major championship? 
MORGAN PRESSEL:   So far, so good.   Going to go get a little bite to eat and relax a little bit before my next round.   It's really tough out there.   Especially that back nine plays really difficult. 
I think we saw a lot of back and forth today on the leaderboard and I'm sure more of the same will happen this afternoon.   I just want to hang tough and hit good shots.

Q.   What sort of challenge is it to play 36 holes at this intense level on a final day?
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Well, it's tough.   We did it at Wegman's, the final group there, and that was certainly challenging.   It will be just like that today.   The wind, you just have to think so much over every shot. 
So by the end of the day, I don't know if I'll be thinking, just kind of relax and just let everything go.   I've just got 18 more holes of some pretty intense focus and should be okay.

Q.   You know what it takes to win a major championship, but it's been awhile, six years, and wonder whether the vibes are beginning to return this time?
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Well, I gave myself a pretty close at Wegman's and gave myself a really good chance and it felt great to be back in contention and it feels the same way here.   Especially at such a special place, St. Andrews.   So I feel like I'm playing well, and we'll see what happens this afternoon. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT