RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 2, 2013
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MORGAN PRESSEL:   I played very well today.   Didn't really put myself in any trouble.   I only had one par putt of maybe about six or seven feet on 11 that was a tap‑in.   There's a lot of birdie putts out there. 
I gave myself a lot of chances and they were scaring the hole but just didn't go in.   On the last hole, I was ready to give a big fist‑pump but that was in the middle of the hole but it was on the low side. 

Q.   Getting into the Solheim Cup for the United States, how often do you think about that when you're out there? 
MORGAN PRESSEL:   At this point, you know, I've played well for two days, and I'm more focused on this tournament.   I feel like I've given myself the best opportunity to play on the team in the last couple months.   We'll see how it falls at the end of the week but I feel good about where I am. 

Q.   Over the last few years, it's been a reasonably tough journey for you.   I know you had wrist and thumb injuries last year; what's turned it and how good do you feel about your game once again?
MORGAN PRESSEL:   I feel good, probably better than I did before the injury, which is nice.   I practised very hard and kind of in a good place in my life, so it's been more fun playing golf.   I enjoy the travel a little bit more, and just enjoy competing and playing well. 

Q.   And as a newlywed and life as a married woman on the Tour, how is that shaping up? 
MORGAN PRESSEL:   It's great.   My husband is very supportive.   He is unfortunately not here this week but as he constantly reminds me, he has a job, as well, even though I would like him to be out here all the time.   He's always got my back. 

Q.   It's always something to get off to a great start as you did yesterday, but then it's important to back it up, and you must feel like you've done that today?
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Well, definitely.   We had ideal conditions this morning, and definitely after the rain, it played tough but even on those tough holes, still didn't put myself in any trouble and that was the key out there.   I putted ball where I can see it and was able to‑‑ I made a lot of pars.   I gave myself chances at birdies but at the end of the day I made a lot of pars.

Q.   That's one of the things about St. Andrews, is you hear a lot of players say, I gave myself chances, I gave myself chances, and the greens have so many subtleties in there, and they are big by their very nature. 
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Yeah, sometimes a straight putt is the hardest; it's hard to aim right at the hole.   I practised a lot, a lot of straight putts leading up to this week or earlier in the week here.   Just burning the heart, I needed to hit a few of them and I just didn't it.   Sometimes I tried to read too much break into them. 
They are so subtle because they are fairly flat for the most part.   There's a few areas of the greens that are certainly a little more severe, but there's a lot of makeable putts, but sometimes the straight putts are the hardest.

Q.   We touched on this yesterday but have you thought of your former self and to hear you reveling in the unique nature of links golf now, if we had said to you that five years ago, you would be having these kind of thoughts and conversations, what would you have said then?
MORGAN PRESSEL:   I would have said that I'd probably grown up a bit (laughing), I guess it will come.   I mean, everything happens for a reason, and I think that my past struggles here at St. Andrews as well as links golf in general my first two years on Tour taught me a lot. 
This is my 8th year, and that makes me feel really old sometimes at 25, but I've learned a lot in those eight years.   Everybody says build on your experiences and learn from all of your mistakes but sometimes you don't see that until a little bit further down the road. 

Q.   Embracing the challenge as you are, how does that involve you for the weekend, having given yourself this position at the halfway stage? 
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Well, I don't know where it will end up at the end of the day, but I'm going to go back and take a nap while everybody else plays in the wind. 
You know, I'm happy.   I'll be in contention going into the weekend, and I'm playing well, so I can't ask for much more than that.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT