WEGMANS LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 9, 2013
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Just tell us what you're feeling right now.
MORGAN PRESSEL:   How do I sum it up?   I mean I'm definitely disappointed, but it's the first time in a long time I've contended, so I'm happy with the way that I played this week as a whole.
I had chances.   Nothing went in.   And that happens. 

Q.   When you're coming in, are you thinking of a certain score?   Were you thinking that it had to be a lower number to be in?   I mean the way Inbee came in, too, obviously pars might have been what you needed.
MORGAN PRESSEL:   No.   I mean I didn't think Inbee would actually give me as much of a window as she did.   And when she gave me a window, gave it right back to her.
So I ‑‑

Q.   When will the positives kick in from this week for you?   When will you start feeling good about the way that you played?
MORGAN PRESSEL:   I mean I do.   I do feel good about the way that I played.   I just would have liked a couple more putts to fall.

Q.   Morgan, it's the right time of year to really get your game in order.   We've got more majors coming up and the Solheim Cup.   Just talk about how nice it is to have a good week and know that you've got a lot of big events to contend at coming up?
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Yeah.   Absolutely.   You know, I love playing in Arkansas.   It's the next event.   It's a good golf course for me.   I've played at Sebonack already.   I think that's a very good golf course for me.   And we've got ‑‑ this is the start of a big summer, and it's a good tournament for me.

Q.   You talk about, you know, you've been here before.   Did all those feelings and everything come back to you when you're coming down the stretch those last 18 holes?
MORGAN PRESSEL:   You know what, I think I was better than I have been in the past.   I don't think I was as nervous or as ‑‑ I don't know what the word would be, but I feel like I was ‑‑ I mean it didn't happen the way that I wanted it to, but I felt like I was calm about it.

Q.   You got another major coming up pretty quick.   You said Sebonack treats you well.   What is it about that that suits you?
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Well, I think I mean it's a course with some big greens that rely on a lot of short game.   Just like any Open, fairways and greens are important, similar to this golf course, but you know, I've been up to Sebonack a couple of times going back this week, and I feel like I have a little bit of local knowledge on my side and kind of have a good idea of how to play the golf course and a good game plan.

Q.   You said you didn't want to worry too much about Solheim points, but this is definitely a help?
MORGAN PRESSEL:   This will definitely help, for sure.

Q.   Does that help ease it a little bit that this is helping you towards a goal?
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Well, definitely.   I mean I said to my coach earlier this week, you know, if it came down to it, I feel like I'd be a heavy consideration for a pick but I don't want to be a pick, but beyond that I have to give her something to want to pick me for.   So this is definitely ‑‑ this will move me up the points list and hopefully put me into good position going into the rest of the summer.

Q.   As painful as it is now, is it fair to say this is why you do this, to get these feelings, to go down deep ‑‑
MORGAN PRESSEL:   Yeah, I mean you're out here to win and this is the best chance I've had in about a year.   So.
THE MODERATOR:   Morgan, thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT