THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 25, 2011
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You were down right out of the box. What turned you around?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: I kind of gave away the first hole. I should have won that hole, and then Anna made two great birdies on 2 and 3. I knew that I was playing well. It wasn't that I was necessarily playing poorly. I was just 2 down.   
 I mean, I was 1 down with two to play the other day and still won that match, and I've seen a lot happen out here, and I knew that I could just stay patient and play well. I've been playing well all week, and I really, really played solid in the middle of the match.   
 Anna made a couple of mistakes that I took advantage of, and I hit a couple good shots where I got rewarded with winning holes.  
  
  Q. Cristie Kerr joined you at number 10, and I know you're close friends. Did that give you a little extra motivation to play for the two of you?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Absolutely. I told Cristie when I went in and gave her a big hug after the delay, that I was going to win this match for her.   
 When she told me on 7 that she wasn't going to be able to play, that was the only thing I could think of was I absolutely have to win this match. If not only for the team and for my country, but for Cristie as well, because I know that more than anything she wanted to play today.  
  
  Q. Did the break do you some good? I mean, you obviously came back strong. What went on in the team room?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, I won the first hole. I went back to 1 down right before the break, and I knew -- I said, I'm starting my comeback. That's what I told the girls in the team room. I said you girls need to do the same.   
 We had a little bit of a rally chat, and how maybe this break could be really good for. Us, and I think that the girls are playing well this afternoon, and we need to swing a couple of All Square matches back our way, but we can do it.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT