LPGA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
December 3, 2010
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Good day?
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, it was a solid round. I think I had, what, five birdies. And it's a tough golf course. It doesn't really give up a whole lot. I still missed more obviously. But it was just a solid day. I played well. I got up-and-down a lot, that was probably a key, too.

 Q. That's not easy here. 
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Sometimes out here, you're like, where is the best place to miss the green, where is the best place to chip from. Some of these holes, the greens are so firm, you just can't hold them. 
 I had to think that way a few times today, especially since I don't hit the ball as high as some players out here, and I managed to get up-and-down almost all the time.

 Q. Are there holes when you ask the question, where do you miss, that you really have to -- there isn't really a place to miss?
 MORGAN PRESSEL: No, I mean, you know, are you chipping uphill, where is your best shot from. That was really how I played to play today. And I executed for the most part. Except for on 18.

 Q. Not a lot of flat spots?
 MORGAN PRESSEL: It's tough to find some pins on some of these greens.

 Q. 13 today seemed pretty odd. 
 MORGAN PRESSEL: 13 was a little bit of a silly pin, but I think any pin on that green would be silly. I don't know if there is a good one on that green.

 Q. Can you talk about your overall game and just how important the final event is to you for wrapping the season?
 MORGAN PRESSEL: It's nice to be close to home, nice to drive; to not have to pack all of my clothes in the suitcase and keep some of them on hangers was nice. 
 I'm heading into the off-season, and I would like to end on a good note, for sure. I've got a lot to work on, I know that. But it's coming together this week so far. 

 Q. The changes with Gary, are those easy changes, or is it a significant deal?
 MORGAN PRESSEL: I think so far, it's been relatively simple, but very necessary. You know, I think that maybe this winter we will work on things that are a little more difficult, but still, it's just kind of tweaking things here and there, but I've got such ingrained habits that they are hard to change. 

 Q. Wanted to ask you, Alexis Thompson has petitioned for 12 sponsor exemptions next year; not to become a member, but to have double the number of sponsor exemptions. Has someone who got the age waiver on becoming a member, what are your thoughts than? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL: I don't know. It's the first I've heard of it. It's interesting. Do you know why, why they didn't just petition the Tour? 

 Q. I may be putting words in their mouth, but I think they are looking for a middle ground. They don't want a full schedule but they don't want six. 
 MORGAN PRESSEL: I don't know. I was going to be 18 in the middle of the season when I petitioned and just happened that my birthday fell in the middle of the year. 
 But you know, it's a different situation. I don't know. I guess they feel that she's ready and they want her to play more. 

 Q. We talked about her last week, she's shown that she can kind of hang out here, don't you think? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL: She's a great player, Top-10 at The Open, second or third at Evian. I mean, she's clearly, clearly a very talented player. So we'll see what happens. 

 Q. How about the weekend, looking ahead? You like your position obviously?
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Wish I had not bogeyed that last hole. But you know, I'm happy where I am. I'm happy with my game. I'm leaving a few drives to the right. Kind of got to tweak that. But I'll work on that tomorrow since it's getting dark out here. 
 I'm just looking forward to it. Looking forward to a good finish and hope I can continue to play well. 

 Q. The gap that Yang has on the rest of the field right now, on a course like this, can that disappear fairly quickly if you're not careful? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Anything can happen. She's a great player. She's very steady so I can see why she would play well out here. Out here, sometimes you can just catch the wrong breaks, and then it seems to kind of snowball. So you never really know what will happen out here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT