NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MONACO R.V.
October 7, 2010
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MATT PAULSON: Welcome. Good playing today. Just start off talking a little bit about that.  
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Thank you. You know, it was just a solid day. I think I only missed a few fairways and hit 17 greens. The one that I missed I made it from off the green.  
 It was just a started off a little rough. Three-putted the first hole from about 12 feet, so I was kicking myself for that one.   
 Afterwards, made a long putt on the next hole. I made a few lengthy putts today. They weren't 50 feet, but 15 to 20 feet. I haven't done that in a while, so that certainly felt good and gives me a lot of confidence.  
 MATT PAULSON: Give us the holes and an estimate of the length on the long ones.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah. Well, on 11 it was probably 35 feet or so. Let me think, what was the next hole? 16 was probably 20, 25 feet; 18 was 20 to 25 feet. I missed a short one on 2. It was only about four feet for birdie. Then on 3 it was about 15 feet or so; on 6 I hit it to about a foot, so that was helpful. Then on 9 I putted it and it was probably 25 feet from off the green and made that.  
 MATT PAULSON: With the size of the greens, everyone is talking about how you're going to have some long putts. Does it give you some good vibes for the rest of the week making some of those long ones?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: You certainly are gonna have a lot of long putts out here. Even some of the putts over the ridge that I hit today I was lipping 'em out. They were just coming very close.   
 Other than the putt on the first hole, I had good speed all day. You know, you hit 17 greens, you're going to have a lot of chances.  
 MATT PAULSON: Questions.  
  
  Q. What's your assessment of having the tees back on 8 and 17?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, in the previous years we've always played 17 back, other than last year. I think it maybe just speeds up play a little bit. When the tee is up on 17, it is just a total log jam on that hole.  
  
  Q. It's now a three-shot hole?  
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Uh-huh, yeah, for me. It was almost always a three-shot hole for me. I don't hit it quite that far. (Laughing.) And 8 is now a three-shot hole for everybody. It changes the hole quite a bit.  
 I think it enables us to be a little more creative with our shots into the green with the crazy ridges in the green with that back left pin position today. You kind of have to skip it down over the ridge. I think it just makes it more difficult, that's for sure.   
  
  Q. Is that more of an advantage for shorter hitters?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, I mean, even I could get there before, so it must've been a pretty short hole. (Laughter.)  
 You know, for me, that hole isn't -- I mean, it's just a three-shot hole now. Just brings those fairway bunkers a little bit more into play.  
 There wasn't really anywhere to hit the driver off the tee even from the up tee, because you kind of have to cut off a little bit. But then if you hit it too far then it's in that middle bunker.   
 It was definitely a little bit more of a tricky tee shot from up there. Now it's three shots. I hit driver, 3-hybrid, 9-iron into there today, so it's definitely moved back what, some 80 yards?   
  
  Q. You're the second one to post at -6. What do you think will be the lead after the first round with the conditions?  
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Oh, I mean, I don't know what the lead will be. Somebody could go out there and shoot like that, you can certainly do that.   
 With the way the greens are, you know, if you're constantly hitting it on the same tier and the same level, they kind of bowl into towards the pin. You can certainly have quite a few good looks at birdie, and you can make some birdies out here if you're hitting them on the proper sides of the mound.  
 It's gotten a little bit windier than this morning when we first tee'd off. Who knows.   
  
  Q. I saw you hit a really beautiful birdie on 9. I'm never going to do it. What does that feel like? How does that make you feel?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Oh, it was great. You know, to finish with a birdie like that after playing well -- that was the first green that I missed, and I was a little worried because the pin was only four from the left and we couldn't see where it ended up. I thought it was going to be down in the ditch on the left a little bit with a short-sided chip shot.  
 Ended up just being on the flat just probably three yards off the green and was able to putt, and then made it on top of that. So that was definitely lucky.   
  
  Q. Does that ever get blase?  
 MORGAN PRESSEL: No, every time you can go out and play well and feel like you haven't missed too many shots and you've stayed within yourself and stayed patient and put up a good number, it's always exciting.   
 I haven't done it enough yet for it to get boring. I'll let you know if that ever happens.  
  
  Q. You mentioned the wind. Is the weather playing any factor in your play here?  
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, it's been windy the last two days that we've played here. Today it was actually -- it was much less windy, I guess, especially this morning.   
 It's picked up a little bit, but it's still not as windy as it was the last three days. The course is playing a little bit easier, but you have to play through the wind occasionally and make sure you have the right yardages.   
  
  Q. Knowing the wind you had earlier in the week, is that a concern as you look towards Sunday?  
 MORGAN PRESSEL: No. I mean, every day it is what it is. You come out here, and either it's going to be windy and cool sometimes in the morning or, you know, the wind can certainly pick up.   
 It's a wide open golf course and the wind can blow through. I think that's just the way the golf course is designed to play more than anything. You figure that everybody is in the same conditions as you are.  
  
  Q. Any surprises today? Any changes you anticipate to make tomorrow?  
 MORGAN PRESSEL: No surprises today, I don't think. For as well as I scored, I probably didn't have my absolute best ball striking day. I had a little bit of trouble getting through the golf ball, so I'm going to go work on that.   
 I hit a few that were left out and a few pulls, so I'll work on that and play better tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT