CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 27, 2010
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: I'd like to welcome Morgan Pressel. Morgan, great round today; 6-under 66. Can you tell us about it?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah. It was a solid day. I got off to a great start, birdied four of the first six holes and five holes on the front nine and lipped out others that were close that were opportunities. So I had a lot of chances, and I just played really well for about 13 holes, and then it kind of slipped away, but I managed to hold it together and finish at 66.  
  
  Q. Morgan, what were some highlights to the early birdies?  
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, I hit it close on 11, then made about a 10-footer there, and that's a tough par-3. And then on 12 I made a putt from kind of off the green on the right side down the ridge, and that was probably the highlight of the day. And then I hit the green in two on 13 or just short.   
 15, hit it to seven feet. And 17 hit it to about three feet. So I was hitting it well. And then on 16 and on 14 I lipped out. So I had a lot of opportunities. I was hitting it really well. I was hitting every fairway and every green for the first 13 holes. So I can take confidence from that and hopefully play like that for 18 holes tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Morgan, were you happy with your score yesterday, and what, if anything, did you alter or try to revive as far as your game plan?  
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, I grinded really hard yesterday. I kind of was hitting it like I was on the last few holes yesterday. You know, I battled back from 2-over par back to even twice.   
 And I mean it just was -- it was sloppy. And so to finish at even par and miss that short putt on the last hole and think that I shot under par as poorly as I played was pretty crazy. So it was just that much better today. Everything was a little bit more precise.   
 And out here when the wind blows -- it's not a tremendously difficult golf course, but the wind can swirl and can really confuse you. But I think that if you play really good position golf and keep it in the fairway and hit the ball right where you're looking, you can certainly score out here.  
  
  Q. Michelle is still playing well today. Talk about just the weekend and how people can just move and how confident you feel about just being in contention this weekend.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, it's nice to be back in contention, and I played well today to put myself there, and it looks like Michelle is very confident in her game right now, so it looks like I'm going to have to have two more days of golf like I had today and we'll see what happens.  
 THE MODERATOR: Anything else? Thank you, Morgan.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT