RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 31, 2010
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A little rough start with two bogeys?  
 MORGAN PRESSEL: I know. I guess I was what, 9-under the first two holes.   
 You know, those first two holes are just very difficult, and you take two bogeys. I bogeyed both of them first thing and made two straight birdies right after that.   
 I just made a lot of putts today, and I put myself right back in the hunt.   
  
  Q. Well, you must have hit them both because Royal Birkdale is not a pushover. Admittedly the conditions, not too bad out there.  
 MORGAN PRESSEL: I've seen her make a lot of putts, and then I started looking at it today and made a great one on 16 and 17, and actually that was pretty cool.   
 Some days it goes well. It just seems to all fall into place.  
  
  Q. Well, you put yourself back in contention, so the best for tomorrow.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Thanks. I'm going to go enjoy the afternoon.   
  
  Q. So did you forget you were playing Royal Birkdale today? That was fantastic.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: No, I didn't forget that I was playing Royal Birkdale, but I just played well. I played solid.   
 I had a rough start, but came back strong and stayed tough in some rain and wind out there.   
 And I just made a lot of putts. That's really how you score out here. I hit 14 greens. I had 25 putts.  
  
  Q. You said you were learning how to play these golf courses.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, the first day I struggled. I kept hitting the golf ball in the air and just made some silly mistakes.   
 And you know, I'm trying to -- I just played a little bit differently the last couple days, trying to play towards trouble and drop the ball or cut the ball away from it, and it's certainly put me in position. If you hit greens out here, you can score really well.  
  
  Q. You've placed yourself in a strong position with your performance today.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, especially considering I've actually never played well at the British Open, you know, it's definitely promising.   
 The little booklet they have here said my best finish is 42nd. That was pretty embarrassing. And I looked like I was going to miss the cut for a while, so to come back and paddle back today and give myself a chance to have another great tournament in my European tour is great.   
  
  Q. It was a difficult start with back to back bogeys?  
 MORGAN PRESSEL: I mean you know one 1 I just hit a poor chip. I lipped out with the par putt. And on 2 I hit a shot with both feet out of the bunker. It's the second one I've had this week where I just had no stance, and was happy to make bogey from there. Anything could have happened.  
  
  Q. What clubs did you have in on your approaches?  
 MORGAN PRESSEL: All 3-woods. They're three hard holes. I probably could have hit 3-hybrid on the first. Maybe a little bit of a mistake. But I mean I made a bomb on 3, about 40 feet. And I made about a 20-footer on 4. So right back at even par. And obviously comfortable with my putting.  
  
  Q. You had about one, two, three, four, five bombs.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: I did.  
  
  Q. Does that sound about right?  
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Let's see. On 13. On 3, on 17 and 16. What was the other one?   
  
  Q. I have 3, 4.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: 4 was 20 feet. That wasn't as much as a bomb. It was a good putt. It wasn't a bomb.   
  
  Q. And 13, 16 and 17.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Okay. Great. That's good.   
  
Birdies and bogeys:  
Hole 1--missed green, bogey  
Hole 2--missed green, bogey  
Hole 3--8 iron, 30 footer for birdie  
Hole 4--4 hybrid 25 footer for birdie  
Hole 7--7 iron, 2 footer for birdie  
Hole 9--6 iron, 5 footer for birdie  
Hole 12--6 iron, hit front bunker, bogey  
Hole 13--7 iron, 40 footer for birdie  
Hole 14--5 iron, 12 footer for birdie  
Hole 16--5 iron, 40 footer for birdie  
Hole 17--3 hybrid, 45 footer for eagle  
Hole 18--4 hybrid, 10 footer for birdie  
  
8 birdies, eagle and 3 bogeys  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT