CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 6, 2009
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You have to be happy with that?  
 MORGAN PRESSEL: I haven't played well as of late -- well I take that back. I've played well. I haven't scored well and I haven't played a lot of putts and certainly put everything together this weekend and left maybe a few more birdies out there.  
  
  Q. Minus ten, you're right in the hunt, you're going to cash a big check and you have to be happy with that part, too.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Absolutely. I haven't had that great of a season in that sense and so this will help me move up the Money List and probably help my ranking. Those are certainly important things. I'm looking forward to next week, which is a pretty good golf course for me.  
  
  Q. Where are you going next week?  
 MORGAN PRESSEL: We are going to the P & G Beauty, northwest Arkansas. So fly down tomorrow morning and I'm looking forward to that because it's a little bit of a shorter golf course, and probably suits me even better than this one does.  
  
  Q. Can you put into perspective the tee time on Thursday with the horrendous wind, how do you look at that, proud that you bounced back or ticked that you would have been in the hunt?  
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Look at Suzann: She was in front of me the first two days. And I certainly had my opportunities. Even in the wind shooting even par, I didn't feel that I played that will well, and it shows, as I played much better yesterday in the wind and scored much better.  
 You know, it was just kind of hanging in there the first two days and to think that I ended up 10-under par after just barely making the cut, I'm happy about that.  
  
  Q. Coming to the course today, did you have a sense that Suzann was probably too far in front of you to catch her?  
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, I mean, Suzann is playing great and I knew that she would probably go out and play well. I mean, anything can happen, but I was just looking at -- I was only a couple of shots out of second and third place, so that's what I was looking at.   
  
  Q. So you're playing for second essentially.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: I was playing for as well as I could play. I wanted to make as many birdies as possible, and if I could have found a 62, I might have challenged Suzann.   
  
  Q. What about these crowds, what about this field; it does feel like a major to you?  
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Absolutely. It's one of the biggest events out here and there's a reason why it's got the best field. We always play tremendous golf courses and the people here support it. It's great to think that people with such a short golf season enjoy it so much and want to come out and watch us play it. It's very exciting.  
  
  Q. And they raised 1.6 million for the children's hospital in this economy.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: That's unbelievable. I have an event and I know what it's like to just raise money in general and I know how the recession is affecting it. Doesn't seem to be as much of a recession here in Canada.   
 You know, the people he.  
 Re have just supported this event and this CN Miracle Match is a great cause.  
  
  Q. Seemed like you enjoyed the give and take --  
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Absolutely. I love coming here to Canada. I don't know why; I feel like I'm kind of a favorite up here, which obviously not like a Canadian. But I was talking to the CN guys and I said I would be the resident Canadian that didn't make the cut. I'll fill in, I have a little flag on my bag and a little ball marker. I feel like I've been given a lot from the fans here and just nice to give back and be able to support where we play.   
  
  Q. Can you run us through your scorecard today?  
 MORGAN PRESSEL: I birdied 5. I hit a lob-wedge to about ten feet. I birdied 7. I hit a 7-iron to 30 feet. I birdied 8. I hit a 3-wood to about 15 feet.   
 I birdied 9. I hit a gap wedge to about five feet. I birdied 12. I hit the green in two with a 3-wood and 2-putted from 20 feet.   
 13, I hit 7-iron in the water and made bogey.   
 16, I hit 6-iron to about a couple inches.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT