AIG WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 3, 2019
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How sweet was that round for you out there?  
MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, it was a very good round.  Obviously great score.  I put myself in great position all day.  Really only missed two greens I think, and one was a poor drive.  I didn't make very many poor swings, so that was good, and definitely to birdie the last few, actually on 10 and 12, I missed a couple short birdie putts, so nice to make some on the last few holes.   
 Q.  Coming off the birdie on 16, tee moved to the right on 17 (pointing to something on video).  
MORGAN PRESSEL: My goal today was not to hit it in the bunker.  It was a little better in the bunker.  Curled up to about eight, ten feet and rolled it in.   
 Q.  This at 18, looking for the hat trick.  
MORGAN PRESSEL: Again, this is a 7-iron back pin.  Kind of was a perfect number.  Gave it a good, full swing and looks like it hit the downslope.  Rolled that up there.   
 Q.  How are you enjoying the challenge of the course?  Changed a lot since the practise rounds in term of the weather.  
MORGAN PRESSEL: I think it's scorable for sure.  The conditions in practise were very challenging.  Tuesday we had a ton of rain.  Wednesday was very windy and the last few days have definitely been much more scorable and I was able to take advantage of that today.   
 Q.  You have won a major championship a few years ago now, 2007.  Now you've put yourself in this position and now you're on this role and finished with that little bit of momentum.  Mentally, what are you feeling heading into Sunday?  
MORGAN PRESSEL: I feel like I put myself in a good position.  Gave myself a chance.  Obviously a lot of golf to play so you have the leaders play the golf course.  It is scorable.  They are able to make birdies.  I don't know how far I will be behind come tomorrow but more of the same.  Just keep making good swings and hitting solid shots.   
 Q.  Am I allowed to ask you about the Solheim Cup?  
MORGAN PRESSEL: I think that's the longest we've gone in an interview in the last couple months.   
 Q.  We know what it means to you.  You can see your record and we see the standings right now.  What would it mean to be on that team in a few weeks' time?  
MORGAN PRESSEL: It would be amazing.  I've been fortunate enough to be on five teams.  I missed it last time and that was difficult.  I really am happy that I'm playing well, playing much better this year, even for myself, and obviously to have the opportunity to wear red, white and blue would be great.  Maybe giving Juli something to think about.   
 Q.  Talk us through the last three holes?  
MORGAN PRESSEL: I really actually played well all day.  Gave myself a lot of chances, especially on the back nine.  Missed a few early on the back nine and that kind of irked me.  I was happy to get the last few in at the end for sure, to finish with three birdies, four of the last five, definitely moved me up the leaderboard pretty quickly and be in a decent position for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Boeing on 2, to bounce right back on 3 with a birdie, how much of a positive mindset did that put you in?  
MORGAN PRESSEL: That was kind of a big deal.  I hit probably one of my worst shots of the week on the second tee, a really poor drive and I've been hitting it really well.   
So to make bogey on that hole, that was a little frustrating, but bouncing back I made about a 20-footer on 3, so it was, okay, back to even and now let's grind.   
 Q.  All about putting yourself in a good position on the Saturday.  Was it in the mindset to go out and play aggressive and attack the pins and try and get yourself up that leaderboard, play caution to the wind if you like?  
MORGAN PRESSEL: I think just the confidence that I have in my golf swing right now allows me to play that way.  You know, the greens aren't super-firm so you can take dead aim on some shots, and my distance control, especially on the back nine with the irons was really stellar.   
 Q.  I know you'd love to win a second major, and also a Solheim Cup around the corner, which I probably have to ask you about, seeing as you have such a great record there.  But is that at the back of your mind?  Is it something you're thinking about that a win here could potential?  
MORGAN PRESSEL: Only thing I think about Solheim Cup is how many questions it will take for the interviewer to ask me about it.   
Obviously I'd love to play for my country and love to play for Juli, but winning a major championship, I'm here this week to really win a tournament.  There's even a lot more at stake, as well, this week, than just being on the Solheim Cup team.  Good golf usually takes care of itself.   
 Q.  Playing with Paula last week, the fact that both of you were young stars that came on, do you ever talk about your journey together, the highs and lows, or someone who understands it, is that important?  
MORGAN PRESSEL: I think it's definitely important.  I think that's also why we're such good friends.  It's a tough life out here, and a lot of people see the great thing that happen on TV but there's a lot of -- it's kind of a roller coaster of emotions and certainly the two of us have had plenty of struggles, especially the last couple years.  It's definitely relatable and something we talk about.  Something that we help each other through.   
 Q.  Almost like the equivalent of university friends, because you've been through the LPGA university together.  
MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, growing up since we were 12, 13 years old in the sport, that's when we first met and both competing with each other, against each other, and just spending a lot of time off the golf course together, we definitely have a special relationship.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT