LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 21, 2009
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MORGAN PRESSEL: On 10, my first hole, I hit a 9-iron to about six feet.   
 On 14, I hit a sand wedge to about five feet. On 16 I hit a sand wedge to 10 feet. On 2, I hit the green in two with a four hybrid to about 10 feet and two-putted. And then on 5, I hit a three hybrid to about 45 feet and two-putted.   
 And then on 6, I chipped in from just short left of the green.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right, Morgan. Nice way to start the LPGA Corning Classic, 6-under par today. If you would, just tell us a little bit about your round and how you played today.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: It was good. I played well today. I think I missed two greens, and probably about the same amount of fairways.  
 I hit it solid, didn't put myself in a whole lot of trouble, and if I was, I chipped in.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions?   
  
  Q. (Inaudible question).   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: I'm a beast. No. It's just not one of our longer golf courses. It's a golf course that's more about hitting fairways and placement on the greens since they're so small.   
 So yeah, I had quite a few short irons into some holes, and that helps me out. I can make a few more birdies that way, but you still have to hit it well. It's a short golf course for everyone.  
  
  Q. Last year your 6-under was a good number for the first round. This year you're a couple of shots back. Does that kind of show how tough the field is this year?  
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah. Absolutely. I mean the conditions are not that difficult out there today. There's a little breeze, but it's warm.   
 I think it's probably some of the nicest conditions we've had here in a first round, when it's not freezing and windy.   
 But it's a beautiful day, and the golf course is in great shape, hasn't had a whole lot of rain, so it's bouncing, and I think that's why the scores are lower.  
  
  Q. All things considered, do you like being in this position? I mean I imagine you'd probably rather be in the lead, but still, to be right in there.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah. This is a first good round. Compared to my last couple of events, I'll take it.   
  
  Q. What was the difference for you last year? What's feeling good for you out there?  
 MORGAN PRESSEL: I don't know. I just played better today, and I was able to hit the ball a little bit closer, keep it in play off the tee and made a few putts where I needed to.   
 Just sometimes it's just a little difference here and there. It's not anything hugely significant or major revelation. It's just I played better.  
  
  Q. Seems like a lot of younger players are right up there, players who have come out over the past few years. What does that tell you, just talk about the talent, the influx of talent in recent years, and I think probably a number of players who are right up there have an 8-under, they've been out here only within the last few years or so?  
 MORGAN PRESSEL: There's a lot of young players on Tour. You could say that just about every week. It's certainly gotten younger.   
 The rookies are coming out at a younger age, and they're better prepared, I guess is what I would say. Doesn't take a few years to kind of get situated out on Tour anymore. People can come out on their rookie year and play great, and that's I think what we've seen in the last couple of years.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Anything else? Thanks, Morgan.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT