KAPALUA LPGA CLASSIC
October 15, 2008
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Morgan, thanks for coming in, and welcome to Kapalua. You obviously have a great relationship with this area. Just if you would talk about being the touring professional for this resort and being kind of the hostess for the week.
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, I'm excited to be here. I'm excited to be back. This is my, what, third trip here? I was here about a year and a half ago before my trip to SBS, the first tournament of the year last season, and we were treated very nicely by Gary (Planos) and his staff and everybody here at Kapalua, and I wrote Gary a thank-you note for everything that they did for us this week. I said, "You know, if you're ever interested in female representation, let me know." 
 And he wrote back and said, "Well, we're very interested."
I said, "Well, that was easy." 
 They have been a great partner, and it all developed into this event here this week, and I think that that's what we are all most excited about is bringing the LPGA Tour and showcasing Kapalua as a strong partner of the LPGA Tour. And as I said I know all of the girls are excited to be here this week. It hard to beat this place. 

 Q. What are the challenges of this golf course compared to other courses you've played? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, I don't think it's necessarily a typical Hawaiian golf course, especially with all of the pine trees that are out there. Those are some are the things that you don't really see too often out here. Especially with the golf course being in such fantastic shape, the greens are extremely quick, and a lot of them have been redone, even since I've last played them. 
 They are pretty undulating and large and they can get very, very quick out here. I mean, I give all of the credit, I mean, the superintendent has done a fantastic job with the golf course. The rough is difficult. You have to stay in the fair way. The fairways are not necessarily extremely tight but you don't want to miss them, otherwise you'll be in a lot of trouble. 

 Q. Talk about your swing change, have you done it, or is it in the process? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL: It's a work-in-progress, that's for sure. Just working on things like getting the club more on plane and going through my swing, as well as a proper weight transfer. 
 Just some pretty big -- some pretty big changes that are going to take a bit of time and quite a bit of work, but I'm getting closer to the swing. My swing definitely looks a little different, so it will get there. 

 Q. And are you hoping to increase distance-wise? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Yes. Yes, through change my swing, it will become a more powerful golf swing, definitely. That's the whole.

 Q. Who do you work with? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Well, I've been working with Adam Schreiber and Ron Stockton on my swing. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Can you tell us a little lit about how your year has gone so far, are you happy and do you still have goals to achieve.
 MORGAN PRESSEL: No, I've actually been pretty disappointed this year. It's something that hopefully I can move from so hopefully I can avoid these years in the future. 
 You know, being out here on Tour is a learning process in itself. Sometimes you have to learn the hard way. And I know that these changes that I have to make through my putting and through my full swing are going to be very important, as well as concentrating on my mental game, as well and hopefully next year I can come out swinging hard. 

 Q. Are you any busier as the club pro or touring pro out here, or is it pretty much the same routine?
 MORGAN PRESSEL: I'm a little bit busier out here, yes. I'm trying to make these changes in my swing, but as well as give Gary full rein, whatever he wants me to do; that's why I'm here. Yesterday I had a clinic and a couple of TV things, and not to mention the player meeting that took all night. 
 But yes, it is a busy week but I'm so excited that we could bring the Tour here to Kapalua.

 Q. You've also had a few other big names join you out here; Annika and Lorena, what's it like playing with them and having them at Kapalua? 
 MORGAN PRESSEL: It's great. I think it's going to show off the Tour out here in Kapalua but it also shows the quality of the destination; that these players would want to come out towards the end of the season and play out here. It will be fun. We'll have a fun group tomorrow with both Annika and Lorena. It will be a good week. It will be a good finish to the end, I'm sure, especially with a strong field. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Morgan, thanks so much and enjoy the week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT