SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SBIA
February 2, 2019
Tom Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tournament started with 1-over par and it's been a lot better since, 8-under par today.  What did you do well to achieve that score?
TOM LEWIS: The first round was difficult, trying to get used to the greens and I didn't hole anything.  I missed a short one on the first one first day and it sort of spiraled.
The last couple of days, I've been able to hole putts at the right times.  Today I played better.  Yesterday I played well and today I played better.  It's nice to reflect in the score and I'm pleased.
Q. A lot of guys battling with the greens and they are getting slightly quicker each and every day.  Is that helping to hole more putts?
TOM LEWIS: Yeah, I think the first day, they were a little bit nappy and slow, and I hit a lot of good putts and they just sort of leaked off.  I've seen more putts go in and obviously I'm rolling it well.  It's a day I holed two really long putts.
Q. 62 means that you're nicely in the clubhouse now having made your move and they have a lot of golf still to play.  How much more difficult is it when this wind picks up around here?
TOM LEWIS: The first day I played, there's no wind and I struggled, and yesterday there was a lot of wind and I played well.  Today, sort of in the middle.  I don't know what's going to happen.
I think some holes will play easier if it's downwind or there's a lot of wind coming off the water, but I wouldn't be surprised if the guys shoot good scores but there will also be some poorer scores, as well.
Q. Give us a sense of the excitement, great run back to form for you, winning on a Challenge Tour event and winning again in Portugal last year and tomorrow you're going to have a chance perhaps to go toe-to-toe with Dustin Johnson.  How do you feel about that?
TOM LEWIS: It's exciting.  That's why we play golf.  I haven't been in the last groups much over my career and the more and more I put myself in them positions, the easier it becomes.
I'd love to go out there last with Dustin, but whoever I play with, if I can just do what I did today, then, you know, see what happens.
Q. Eight birdies, no dropped shots.  Tell me how good of a round that was?
TOM LEWIS: Yeah, I was really pleased with today.  I played very well.  I love having rounds with no dropped shots.  That's a good thing, you're in the losing any shots to the field, and I made a lot of good putts out there, so I'm pleased.
Q. You holed a lot of long putts, especially 13 and 14.  Was that the key to for a good score, your putting, today?
TOM LEWIS: Yeah, for sure.  They are such easy putts to 3-putt.  You didn't really need to do much wrong to walk off with two fives and instead I walked off with two threes, and they are the little turning points that make your week.
Q. You had a Top-10 in Abu Dhabi, and having won twice, has that given you more confidence?
TOM LEWIS: Yeah, like I say, the more you put yourself in those positions, the more you feel comfortable.  Tomorrow is a big day.
It will be lovely to go out there and play well again and give myself chances, and if the putts go in like they did today, then maybe it will be my week and if they don't, then maybe it will be somebody else's.  But as long as I can try and enjoy myself, that's all that matters.
Q. It must be nice to be in contention in a big tournament like this?
TOM LEWIS: Yeah, it's great.  The Federation have done such a good job with the tournament.  The course is really coming along.  I think over the years, it will become even better.  I'm excited about going out there tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT