ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 17, 2019
Tom Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You started from the 10th hole and made an eagle there, just tell us about that, the highlight of the day.  
TOM LEWIS: It's obviously a great start.  It's a very narrow fairway and I've hit a great drive, and I'm in between clubs, and I seemed to just heel a little 3-wood, and it sort of just landed perfectly and I rolled in sort of a 15-foot putt.   
 Q.  9-under par with no bogeys on the card.  On this course, that's exceptional.  What's been the secret to that?  
TOM LEWIS: I know, I was expecting bogeys.  You have to expect bogeys around here.  The rough is up, and the greens are fast.  But I've been playing very maturely.  Like when I've been out of position, I've aimed for the biggest part of the green.  I've left some putts short over the last couple of days, but the greens are rolling brilliantly, and I feel comfortable on them.   
 Q.  You started last year with limited starts on the European Tour, playing mainly on the Challenge Tour.  How exciting to be now in the winner's category, 72nd in the World Ranking, playing in all the biggest events.  How excited are you about the potential for this year?  
TOM LEWIS: It's amazing.  You know, you've got to just look at it, everyone has got to look at that and see how quickly life can change for you.  I'm just very thankful to be here, and I'm still enjoying it, and hopefully if I can try and enjoy myself this weekend, you never know what's going to happen.   
 Q.  What sort of hopes and expectations have you got for this season?  
TOM LEWIS: You know, I obviously really try and put myself up there as much as I can because guys are so good nowadays, you're going to lose when you're up there, but if you get yourself up there enough, then hopefully you can turn one or two around.  If I can try and push myself into the majors coming into this year, that would be great spirits.  But we'll just see.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT