DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 17, 2018
Tom Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. This week in particular, what's given you the most satisfaction to this point?
TOM LEWIS: I think I might have mentioned in the past that I haven't been playing the best I've been playing but I've been getting really good results over the summer since Portugal, and this week I've actually hit it really well.
Unfortunately my putter hasn't felt as comfortable as I wanted to.  Everything's been a bit short.  But the greens look fast and they are on slopes, so it's understandable.
Q. What's the game plan?  I'm sure you've had a look at the leaderboard and seen your position for Sunday?
TOM LEWIS: Yeah, I don't know what the lead is going to be at the end of the day, I imagine 13, 14.  It's just great to be up there.  I don't really know what's going to happen tomorrow but if I can roll some putts in early tomorrow, you never know.
Q. Again, we've talked and we know the kind of down periods you've had and we know what now you're achieving.  Do you really have to kind of soak this moment up and appreciate what is happening?
TOM LEWIS: Yeah, like I've said in the past, when you have everything early, you think everything is going to be like that forever, and when you've been really down, you appreciate moments like this because you don't know how many you're going to have.  Hopefully this isn't the only time I'm going to have and it's just a start.
Q. A third round 67, give us your assessment of how things went for you today?
TOM LEWIS: It was great.  I played with Thomas Pieters, a good friend of mine, and it was nice to go out there with him today.  We obviously both hit it quite well.
Q. You made yourself a signature move up the leaderboard, and must be an exciting prospect looking ahead to what can happen tomorrow?
TOM LEWIS: I don't know what's going to happen.  I really don't know.  I just need to have a look at the round and see how I feel.  I felt a lot more comfortable today, and I holed a lot more putts coming home, which was nice.
Q. At the start of the year this, was probably the furthest thing on your mind.  How much are you able to enjoy the experience of playing in this prestigious event?
TOM LEWIS: It's been brilliant.  I watched it on TV for many years and obviously sad that I never made one before, but I'm pleased to be here.  The guys have been great.  The staff have been brilliant, and the crowds are great, as well.  There's a lot of English out here in Dubai cheering us on.
Q. Any change in the game plan tomorrow?
TOM LEWIS: Keep doing what I'm doing, and if it's meant to be, the putts will go in.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT