TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 2, 2018
Tom Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  69 yesterday, 63 today.  What was the difference in your play?  
TOM LEWIS: Yesterday was just a bit of rust.  I had a couple of weeks off and just that sharpness left me yesterday a bit of indecision but today I felt more comfortable.  I let my swing go a little bit more and I holed a lot of great putts.  I holed many long ones and missed a few short ones.   
 Q.  What goes through your mind in a round like that as you're climbing the board and eventually tied atop the leaderboard?  
TOM LEWIS: I was having a really good time with Tommy.  We haven't played for a long time and Shane, I can't shrug him off the last few weeks, we've played a lot.  It's been good.  We had good craic and the guys played well.   
 Q.  What is it about these low scoring-weeks that bring out the best in you?  
TOM LEWIS: I think the weather.  I think I play good in the heat and the sun.  Makes me happy and when you're happy, you play good golf.   
 Q.  How excited at the prospect of winning again so soon?  
TOM LEWIS: There's loads of golf left over the next couple days and the players are playing great.  I'm not going to get too far ahead of myself.   
 Q.  Lowest round of the week so far.  You got off to a fast start which really set the tone for you?  
TOM LEWIS: I holed some really good long putts to start the round and that just sort of eased me in.  Just very comfortable for me out there.   
 Q.  The long putting seemed to serve you really well today.  
TOM LEWIS: I stroked it better today than I did yesterday.  Yesterday I was trying too hard to hole putts and yesterday I sort of freed it on the first and holed it and freed it up on the second and it snowballed from there?   
 Q.  How does it feel to be in contention in tournaments the magnitude of a Rolex Series Event coming at the end of the season?  
TOM LEWIS: It's been great.  Obviously my summer has been very good and first Rolex Series Event, it's nice to play in a small field.  It's nice to know that you're playing all four rounds.  But the players are great.  They have played well all year.  That's why they are here.  I played well, as well, and hopefully I can just play as well as I did today over the next couple of days.   
 Q.  Do you have to pinch yourself a little bit?  You started your season on The Challenge Tour, got your win on The European Tour, and now you're playing in these three big events and you'll be at the DP World championship, as well.  
TOM LEWIS: It's great.  I'm happy with what I've done.  It's been a long time coming but I've been patient with it and I've played great golf.  I've probably played better golf early in the year but I didn't get the results.   
Today I seemed to just play well and score well and that's what I've done over the summer.   
 Q.  Have you changed the way that you approach the game since you got back on to the tour?  Is there anything different about the way you're playing the game?  
TOM LEWIS: Not really.  I think I feel more confident in my short game.  I've always hit the ball solidly.  Putting's sort of let me down over the years and I've held more putts now and that helps.  It takes pressure off the long game, as well, knowing you can hole putts.   
 Q.  Second round 63, one off the course record.  What was working for you?  
TOM LEWIS: I holed a lot of long putts early on in the round.  I think that sort of helped me into the latter part of the round, and I swung the ball well [sic].  Swung it well and I had some good chances that I missed that could have been better, but I'm not going to complain.   
 Q.  Seven Top 10s since August worldwide.  What's been the turnaround?  
TOM LEWIS: Today showed it.  I holed a lot of long putts and that helped shooting low ones, because you can't shoot low scores without holing long putts, and I'm driving the ball well today.  I felt better on the course in the past, but I haven't scored.  You know, today I scored really well and I felt comfortable.   
 Q.  You look at the leaderboard, so many birdies out there, do you enjoy this type of sprint?  
TOM LEWIS: Yeah, it's been awesome.  This is my first time here playing in the Rolex Series, and the course is brilliant and sets up for me well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT