ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 23, 2014
Tom Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  TOM LEWIS:   Today's good score, you know, there were a lot of low scores out there, but I can imagine there's loads of high ones as well.   It's the type of course that will reward you for good shots and also punish you for bad ones.  
Today I hit a lot of good shots, especially coming in.  
   
 Q.   You cozied a long putt very close on the last.   Is that indicative of the way you were playing on the greens today?  
TOM LEWIS:   Yeah, definitely my putting today has been better than it has been for my whole year.  
That's the difference between my normal 1‑overs to 1‑unders to my 6‑under.   Today on the greens I holed my good share of par putts, the ones that mattered and keep the round going.  
I holed the birdie putts when I got them as well.   Momentum was good with me.  
On the last it was a treat to be able to dribble that one down to a couple feet.  
   
 Q.   Something about the nature of the greens here or just improved putting, full stop?  
TOM LEWIS:   I don't know.   I just freed it a little bit more today.   I got few more putts past the hole.   
If they're shot they're never in.   Today I read the greens well, I got good pace on them, stroke felt good, so that all combined was a good day.  
   
 Q.   Thoughts coming into this event?   Pretty safe and steady in where you are in the Race to Dubai, but could push on.  
TOM LEWIS:   Yeah, you know, I came here kind of pretty comfortable.   I never felt like I was troubled for my card or anything for next year.   
It was really to do with getting some more confidence going into next year.   I know the areas I need to work on.   I'm looking forward working on them, getting back home and working and grinding a little bit more.  
It would be quite nice then to get two months off.   If I didn't play these last two events I would've just been at home not doing much.   I'm pleased with today because it gives me a little bit more confidence.   
   
 Q.   And yet if the result is particularly good you could kick on and have final series in mind.   
TOM LEWIS:   Yeah, you know, I'm not going to look into that.   It would actually be better for me if I had some time pout and attack the areas that needed to be addressed.   
But I wouldn't complain if I was going to the next few events.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT