ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 27, 2013
Tom Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Doesn't get much better than that, Home of Golf.   
TOM LEWIS:   7‑under is a great score.   Played well today.   Didn't ever really get under too much pressure.   I drove it well, and I was aggressive, as well.   There's a couple holes where you can maybe hit irons instead of drivers, but I hit drivers today and it definitely favored me.   There wasn't much wind out there, as well.   7‑under really was not the worst it could have been but it definitely could have been a lot better.  
   
 Q.   Are you able to pull from great memories from your amateur days as well?   
TOM LEWIS:   Yeah, I think so.   Links golf is always going to suit me.   I've always hit quite a flat ball flight.   We'll just see what happens tomorrow and then it's all for the taking on Sunday.  
   
 Q.   Obviously Kingsbarns, St. Andrews, regarded as the easier of the three courses, but this is a great platform, isn't it, to take to Carnoustie?  
TOM LEWIS:   It can work in two ways.   You can either go to these first two courses and mess it up and put yourself under real pressure or do what I did which is basically play really good, which is shoot two really low scores and go to Carnoustie with a little bit of a buffer, but you do know that there's a few scores that have been out there that are really good from Carnoustie.   So there is a score there, and if I don't shoot a low score tomorrow, then I'm going to be back in the pack, because everyone after three days is going to be even.   
So if you look at a leaderboard, I haven't seen it, there will be a lot of people that have played Kingsbarns and St. Andrews.   And then obviously the guys that played Carnoustie, you might see a couple of numbers up there and they are the ones that‑‑ I think Fleetwood was over at Carnoustie today and he shot a good score, so he must be licking his chops to go to Kingsbarns tomorrow and know that he can shoot another low score and be right up there.  
   
 Q.   Does it feel like your season is turning around at the moment?  
TOM LEWIS:   Yeah, it's getting there.   Probably left it a little bit too late but if it's meant to happen, it's meant to happen.   If it doesn't, then it's not the end of the world.   I'll be obviously very disappointed.  
I'm always going to be learning.   Tiger is always still learning now, so that's never going to stop.   I think the last couple of years have been a massive learning curve for me being able to play with the best players in the world at a high level.   When I do come back, I'll be even stronger than I have been before.   
I think I've got a great chance.   If I can just be patient tomorrow and be as aggressive as I have been, and if I can shoot in the red, get anywhere in the 60s, I'll be in a good position to go into Sunday on a course that really suits me.   
   
 Q.   Were you remember of the Links Trophy?   
TOM LEWIS:   I just think‑‑ I probably didn't go in with much expectation.   I was playing badly that year.   I was a bit annoyed, and then all of a sudden my expectation dropped and my game was good and all of a sudden I won, and was like, this is great.   From there on, it was a great year.  
But I remember it being really sunny one day, t‑shirt and sunglasses and the next day it was so cold, I had three or four layers on.   Completely changed in one night.   Other than that, I don't know.   But I know I shot some good scores under conditions that were quite tough.   Today's weather was perfect for here.   I don't know if I would rather have played here or Carnoustie today, but I think I'd have been happy no matter what.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT