ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 26, 2013
Tom Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell us about a very good day.
TOM LEWIS:   Played well today.   My putting was a lot better today.   The last couple of weeks, I've been struggling, even though I've kind of shot some good scores, but today was perfect.   I holed all the putts I needed to hole.   I holed a couple of good putts, as well, for eagle, one eagle on 16. 
It's a shame, I lost my ball on 10 and made a bogey, but it was a good bogey, and obviously birdied it with my next ball.   So only one shot left out there, which is going to happen anyway.   But this course is set up really nicely and the greens are rolling good, and the weather's perfect.

Q.   Do you enjoy the format?   Seems to be a lot of guys having fun which helps you relax, and you play your best golf when you're relaxed. 
TOM LEWIS:   Exactly.   I've been lucky this week; I've got my sponsor playing with me, Aidan, from Tullow Oil, and he's keeping me relaxed and he's a very positive guy, and that probably helped me out there today.   If I can do some of that again for the next couple days, then I'll be right up there for Sunday. 
Obviously I'm solid on the first 18; Friday is sort of my enemy.   If I can try to get away from that this week, I'll be fine.

Q.   Do you feel in some ways, the fact that you play different courses might help you, because almost every round is a first round to a certain extent. 
TOM LEWIS:   Yeah, for me, trying too hard is always something I do and playing three different courses might just help me not know what I've done the day before and try and expect different things. 
Obviously the weather this week is going to play key depending on the draw, because you can say it's an unfair draw because some people get that course on that day with the weather.   I think that the weather is going to be‑‑ it's good all day today, so no one's got an advantage, so it's nice to actually post a score on a course that you feel like you need to shoot a score on, especially on a good day.

Q.   Do you feel like you're getting back to where it was, Portugal? 
TOM LEWIS:   It has been back there.   I've had spells of it, and I think all over, I'm a better player now, and I'm more experienced.   Obviously winning so early helped me compete at the top level but at the same time probably hurt me, as well, by expecting too much, too early.   I'm learning, and it's a shame that I haven't performed better over the last couple of years, but when I'm back at the top, I'll be ready to get back at the top; whereas before, I probably wasn't. 

Q.   How low did you go?   Was it sort of dark times there? 
TOM LEWIS:   Yeah, you just want to give up half the time, and it's a job‑‑ it's a job, but it's a good job.   But any job is tough, especially at the level here the guys are playing at.   Obviously I've been through tough times and been upset a lot of the time, and it's actually been probably the toughest two years of my life.   But I've come out of it as a stronger player.   It might not happen to me, for me, at end of the year, but if it does, great.   And maybe I play better under pressure. 
If it doesn't, obviously it's not the end of the world.   Obviously I'd be very disappointed, but I've learned a lot in the last couple years and I'll move forward from there and things will happen in the future when the time is right.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT