BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 20, 2013
Tom Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  TOM LEWIS:   Yeah, I didn't hit a bad drive, I hit the fairway but got blocked out by some trees and cut it on to the green and short‑sided myself, which is fine.   I knew I had a lot of birdie opportunities out there, and luckily I made seven threes on the bounce.

Q.   I know that is so early on the round and you should be able to shrug it off; is that indicative of where your game is now?
TOM LEWIS:   I think when you feel positive, you start seeing good shots instead of seeing bad shots.   Obviously I felt comfortable out there and holed some putts and towards the end my concentration, it was tough. 
Wasn't as sharp as it was at the beginning of the round, but it's 35 degrees out here and everybody's focus is going to struggle towards the end.

Q.   How was it coping with the heat? 
TOM LEWIS:   It's nice to actually be in the heat.   We all moan that it's too cold or too hot, but I think if it was like this every single week, we would be pretty happy.

Q.   Is it a continuing progress, the fact that you've learned things from Austria as well as into this week?
TOM LEWIS:   I'm 22 and I haven't had as much experience as a lot of guys out here, and the more I put myself in that position‑‑ the more I get scared of that position, you'll never speak to me again.   So I think the more I try and fight and play well, then the better chance I've got by putting myself in these positions.

Q.   And this is a fine position, and we mustn't get ahead of things, we never should, but what's your feeling about the rest of the week, just shoot something similar every day, really?   It's got to be low, hasn't it? 
TOM LEWIS:   Yeah, I think a lot of guys that go low at first, and they have a good round and then all of a sudden the weekend comes and it doesn't really go as well as the previous two days. 
So if I can shoot anything in the 60s tomorrow, get in double figures, go into the weekend looking to shoot a couple of numbers in the 60s again, then I've got all the chance in the world.   I don't know what the weather is going to hold up, but if it was like today, then between 15‑ and 20‑under par is going to be a good score for me this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT