VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 19, 2012
Tom Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That was eventful, those last four holes.  
TOM LEWIS:   I played really well today.   I felt like I struck the ball great.   I drove the ball well.   I hit one bad drive on 16 which left me a bit sticky situation, but I should have done better than I did and to go birdie, birdie was something flukey I guess.   
   
 Q.   That score seems a very good reward for a day's play.   
TOM LEWIS:   I'm pleased with that.   It's always hard to come back from a season like an off‑season, two months without a competitive round, and to have shot under par was great, but to obviously be in second place at this moment is great, as well.  
   
 Q.   How was that off‑season?   
TOM LEWIS:   It was really good.   Spent good time with my girlfriend and was nice to do that.   Been travelling a lot so we seemed to stay in a lot and I practiced here and there, because I can't sit down for more than two days and I'm itching to get back out there.   
We were really fortunate with the weather back home.   There was no ice or frost on the green so it was great to be able to get some good work done and I enjoy going into the gym and it was a big part of my winter.   
   
 Q.   Such a life‑changing year, were you able to reflect on it?   
TOM LEWIS:   I'm obviously looking forward to moving on from last year.   It's always going to be a great year for me no matter what I do in my career, but I need to move on now and try and take my opportunity that I've got and obviously I've done that today but hopefully I can do that for the rest of the season.   
   
 Q.   Terrific place to start, not only South Africa, but the Volvo Champions, a prestigious, elite event.   No way you could have seen yourself being in there.   
TOM LEWIS:   I didn't even know this event existed as such because I was so young and inexperienced as such, that I didn't even know I would be playing for this the first few years of my career.   
But obviously to be here with the players that are here, it's incredible.   To obviously have played well today is great,   but the players are so strong, every single one of them that I'm going to have to shoot four of them to have any chance.   
   
 Q.   You are one of the players who is familiar with Fancourt?  
TOM LEWIS:   I played here a couple of years ago, four years ago in the Ernie Els Invitational.   I with came good friends of mine, and being here on my own is a bit different, but it's been a good week and hopefully I can carry on.   
The weather has been seriously warm and the people are lovely here, the hotel is great, so really enjoying it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT