PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 14, 2011
Tom Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. So-so day yesterday, 2-under par, two bogeys to start today, level, you're toast, you're going home. And then ten birdies in the next 15 holes. Just explain yourself?
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, I was exactly the same after two holes, I'm thinking I'm going home, disappointed, 3-putted from 15 foot the first two holes and then I had to dwell on the 12th tee for a long time, and I didn't birdie that one, either, and thinking, right, this is a bad day.
 Then got a about the lucky on the par 3. The putt was going about 12-foot past and it went in and there I kept making birdie after birdie. I knew about it, as well, that was the good thing. Wasn't like I didn't know what I was doing, so I was really pleased with my score today.

 Q. At some point did it start to feel easy then?
 TOM LEWIS: I guess the conditions out there are really good. The greens were really good this morning. They are a little bubblier in the afternoon because obviously there's been a lot of play on them and they are quite soft. But this morning they were good and the scores were to be had, so I was really pleased with my scoring.

 Q. Explain your current situation with the Tour and trying to qualify before going to the school. 
 TOM LEWIS: I've had two starts so far and I don't really want to go to Tour School but hopefully I can get five more starts, which is the maximum you can get, seven, and hopefully I can play well and then five, hopefully finish well this week, and see whether I finish and hopefully don't need to go to Tour School. 

 Q. If you Top-10, is that an extra one, a freebie?
 TOM LEWIS: I think so. I'm just trying try to get every top 10 I possibly can and see what happens. If I play well, I can do that.

 Q. How have you found yours early foray on to The European Tour?
 TOM LEWIS: It's really good. The guys have been really nice. I think The Open helped that and that a lot of people know me, so it's been quite a nice ease into it. So have to play well and gain a little more respect. 

 Q. Tell us how special that was today. 
 TOM LEWIS: Really good. I kept giving myself opportunities and holing the putts when I needed to other than the first two holes which were disappointing but if you said after two holes, you're going to shoot 63, I would have said no, you're lying, so I was really pleased.

 Q. Given the two bogeys to start, talk us through, because that in a sense was a very odd foundation for this day. 
 TOM LEWIS: The conditions like I said earlier were really there to be had, and I played really good golf. Even though the first two holes -- I gave myself 15 -foot putts for birdie. 
 So to walk off with two bogeys was really disappointing. So I hit it well all day and then my cuts kept dropping. 

 Q. Was there a change of attitude in that? 
 TOM LEWIS: I think more anger in the first few holes and then as I made more and more birdie, I was a bit more happy and smiley. But I guess I didn't need to show that much emotion because I started off with a sad face and I couldn't go to a smiling face, and I just kept it at level really.

 Q. Were you tossing them up as you went along?
 TOM LEWIS: I was counting them up actually. I was thinking I made nine holes in ten birdies, I should make ten or 11, I didn't really want to make par. 
 So as soon as I make bogey, as soon as I would make bogey, I'd be really disappointed. So I was pleased I didn't make anymore dropped shots from there on in.

 Q. Is that your best birdie run?
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, definitely. I think so. I shot 8-under in Abu Dhabi but I think I had sort of a lot of birdies in there. But I don't think I had that many today. 

 Q. You were thinking of going home?
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, I was looking forward to going home because I was disappointed of embarrassing myself in the last three rounds I had, but I dug in there a little bit and hit some good shots, and really pleased that I am here and it's good to be back on track. I feel like if I shoot two more of them, I'll hopefully win.
 So hopefully I can just forget about the first two rounds and try to get to 10-under. I don't know what my total is now -- if I can get to 20 by the end of the week, that would be great. But if I don't drop anything, less than ten, I'm still going to have a good week. Hopefully I can just make some birdies tomorrow and ease into it. 

 Q. Tell us about having somebody like young can Colin Byrne on your bag. 
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, young Colin; his experience, some of the players he's caddied for in the past speaks volumes for him as a caddie and his skills. To have him beside me is a great honour and I thank him a lot for today.

 Q. Presumably he kept his normal customary composure after the two bogeys. 
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, he was trying to calm me down because I was a bit stressed, a bit angry. Luckily no one was around, no TV cameras, so it was good. But as the round went on, it just kind of came naturally and that's what happens in good rounds of golf. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT