ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 29, 2011
Tom Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Just explain to us the situation you're in, how many starts you've got and what you're trying achieve the rest of this year? 
 TOM LEWIS: It would be really nice to get seven starts, that's the max um I can get. If I can get seven that's great and if I don't, I'll go to Tour School. But trying to do as well as I can this week.

 Q. Can you talk us through the round?
 TOM LEWIS: I gave myself some opportunities and holed some good putts. The course -- this is the course to shoot a score on if you want to get it. So it would have been nice to finish at 6, but to finish at 4 is going to hold me in good stead for tomorrow playing Carnoustie. Hopefully the weather is going to be nice to us tomorrow. 

 Q. Was there a feeling with the weather today that you had to --
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, definitely, the wind came up a bit on the back nine. So it caused a bit of problems, so it's good been good for the pros because they can get some good opportunities to make birdies. 

 Q. What's the biggest thing you've noticed that maybe has surprised you about being a professional?
 TOM LEWIS: The standard's good. If I play well, like I showed for 17 holes, you can be right at the top of the leaderboard, but it shows that if you make a mistake, you can drop a lot of shots. 
 I'm disappointed in my finish but 4-under is not going to leave me too far behind the leader. So hopefully I can shoot a good score tomorrow.

 Q. How pleased were you with the start you had in Austria? It was important to make a statement, wasn't it. 
 TOM LEWIS: It was a good field. Tough course. I didn't want to mess up, so I was a bit nervous to make sure I made the cut at least and feel comfortable going into the weekend. 

 Q. Must have given you a great deal of confidence can coming into this week. 
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, I think golf's really -- disappointed I did what I did on the last. 

 Q. For the remaining three rounds, obviously you must feel it gives you a big advantage because the other players won't have played near as much --
 TOM LEWIS: It would be really nice to make three but it would be nice to play well at St. Andrews at least and shoot a good score there. I feel comfortable there like I do here, and we'll see what happens top. 
 My focus is just on this week, and hopefully get into some later in the year. 

 Q. Are you in Madrid?
 TOM LEWIS: No, I'm not in Madrid.

 Q. What if you win this week? 
 TOM LEWIS: I don't know how it works -- I think five in the Top-10. 

 Q. Did you feel nervous at all on the first tee --
 TOM LEWIS: I've watched it on TV and this is where I want to be. So it's great that I am here. It's disappointing that I'm not at the top of the leaderboard. So leave the bad memories -- the rest of the day.

 Q. Best shot today? 
 TOM LEWIS: Best shot, I can't remember my round. I just remember the double on the last (laughter). I'll let you know in about two hours. 

 Q. And talk about Colin on the bag. 
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, having him on today and the rest of the year is beneficial. He's got me around on a couple of shots better than I probably would have done on my own, so thank him for that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT