THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2011
Tom Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Your thoughts on that round?
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, not good today, not too happy with my putting and the game, but that's the way it is today.

 Q. How difficult did you find it with the weather? 
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, the start was quite tough. I was glad I got off to a good start, two pars were excellent, and that's all I wanted, and from there I started missing loads of putts, so it was a shame. I hit two great shots into 4 and they weren't good enough and it's a hard hole to hit, and I hit driver, 4-iron, and I thought I hit it well and I still didn't hit that green. And from there it down-spiraled and I didn't make any birdies up to 17. So it was a disappointing day.

 Q. A frustrating end?
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, it was frustrating. By the end of the day it was a bad day, so hopefully I can learn from my mistakes out there. The last is just another bogey. I've had so many this week that just add that one to the list.

 Q. You're still in that battle to be the top amateur and you're still a couple of shots in it. 
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, well, Peter is a great player, so no matter what happens tomorrow hopefully I can play well, and if I don't win then I don't win. He deserves whatever he gets. Hopefully I can win some bigger trophies in my career.

 Q. You have to be positive, don't you, and have a positive mindset?
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, I'll just go out there and play another game and hopefully I can shoot 5-under like I did the first day. It would be nice to shoot two rounds in the 60s, but if not, it's just a disappointing end to a good Open.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, it's excellent, but you're never going to play with bad players in the Open. It's great that I played with two great players or three great players. Herron Rick is a lovely guy, as well, and I'm sure he'll compete in the majors again, as well. I'm just thrilled to be here. 

 Q. Did you have a chance to have a conversation with Phil?
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, Phil was nice. I just stayed out of his way. He was battling out there like me, but he just had a better short game, so he was probably five shots in it.

 Q. If you're not contending for the big prize any longer, then you're interested in the amateur prize?
 TOM LEWIS: Well, I told you I was an amateur and I'd make loads of mistakes, so I was expecting it. At the same time it's disappointing to be in the position I am now, but to make the cut in the Open, it's another cut made as an amateur in a professional game. But it would be nice to shoot under par tomorrow no matter what happens. And if Peter wins the silver medal, then well done to him, and hopefully I'll see him at the Walker Cup in a couple of months.

 Q. You looked very frustrated with yourself a couple of putts that slid by. 
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, I just wasn't getting anywhere near the hole, so it was frustrating looking up and not seeing any go in. I couldn't see any lines or the pace of the greens, so I was really down out there to be honest, but hopefully I can play better tomorrow.

 Q. What are you going to do about turning pro?
 TOM LEWIS: Well, I'd love to play Walker Cup. It would be an excellent part of my life. I've made every team possible as an amateur so far, so Walker Cup would be excellent, but we'll just have to see if anything happens before. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 TOM LEWIS: You know, it's possible. After the first round this week I thought of possibly turning pro and being a millionaire. But that's not going to happen. Hopefully I can play well in the next coming weeks, and we'll see what happens. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, I feel like I can compete out here. I've got things to learn. Phil just showed me up around the greens today, and it puts you down. When they're holing everything, chipping it that close and I'm not even holding the green. It's disappointing that I'm that bad around the greens, but I guess there's room to improve.

 Q. You were considering turning pro and missing the Walker Cup?
 TOM LEWIS: Unless something really drastic happens, possible, but Walker Cup is in the back of my head.

 Q. Did Faldo try and get in touch with you?
 TOM LEWIS: No, no, I'm sure he's busy. 

 Q. Did your dad get here today?
 TOM LEWIS: He watched. Watched me hit a lot of shots.

 Q. He was out there?
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT