THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 15, 2011
Tom Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about ending up in that bunker. I know you changed clubs, and what did you decide to do there?
 TOM LEWIS: I hit a wedge out, and I thought the lip was more shallow than it really was. So I got a 52 out and it still hit the lip, so I'm glad I changed to a 52. I hit a great shot into the green and it was a good 5 in the end.

 Q. What did you have before?
 TOM LEWIS: A pitching wedge, so it was less. I tried to limit the lip and try and get it out and give myself a good shot in.

 Q. Were you surprised that it hit the lip?
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, I was a bit, but unfortunately it came out the front, so that was most important. And I hit like a great shot in, so I was happy with a bogey. But I struggled on the greens today and didn't hole as many putts as I would have liked.

 Q. Overall how do you feel about your position?
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, I think if you asked me that two days ago I would have taken it, but at this moment it doesn't feel so good. 4-over is not a great score, but the way I hit it and the way I felt on the greens today wasn't terrible. But three back and hopefully I can stay there and hopefully have two good scores at the weekend.

 Q. You're in the picture. How important is that?
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, that's excellent. It would be nice to win the silver medal and try and finish top 15. But try and take one step at a time. Yesterday was a completely different day to today. So hopefully I can have another one of yesterday's scores tomorrow.

 Q. You have a bit of a big following. How did you manage that?
 TOM LEWIS: It was really nice. I played with Tom and it was excellent, and he was really nice. He gave me some advice around the course, so that was a thrill, and I hope he does well next week in the British Seniors.

 Q. What advice did he give you?
 TOM LEWIS: We were just talking about previous wins of his and the courses he likes as a links course and coming over here and playing. So it was really good of him to share them, and not many people can get that time with him.

 Q. What was the biggest difference today from yesterday with your game?
 TOM LEWIS: I felt comfortable today even though I was nervous, and today I didn't putt very well. I didn't get the pace of the greens. I felt the greens were quicker, and when I did hit it hard it went past quite a long way, and when it came short it was way short. Hopefully I can get this afternoon to work on my putting.

 Q. Did you ever feel like it was kind of getting away from you a little bit, that you had to kind of step back?
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, I had to limit the damage, and I felt there was loads of it out there. Every hole felt like there was something, because of the way I was hitting it wasn't great. So hopefully I can work on that this afternoon.

 Q. The enormity of what you did yesterday, does it become a little distracting to you because it was such a wonderful day yesterday?
 TOM LEWIS: Well, that's why we play golf. We play golf for those moments. I'm glad I had that yesterday otherwise I wouldn't be standing here, I'd be missing the cut. So I'm glad I had that yesterday. I hope I can have one of them tomorrow.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, it's really nice, but this is only halfway through the event, so I've got two days left, and hopefully I can stay in the red and that won't be too far away coming into the last day. 

 Q. Did you sleep okay?
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, I don't think it settled in yesterday. It'll probably settle in next week when I realise what I did that first day and hopefully I can watch some of the footage and see how I look on TV. But like I said, it's good --

 Q. I heard you woke up at 5:00 a.m. 
 TOM LEWIS: I heard my 80 messages last night and a lot more Facebook apps. I just turned that on silent and I got to sleep.

 Q. Your dad was too nervous to be here?
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, but he's on his way up, so hopefully he can work on the range with me and we can find something for the weekend.

 Q. He'll be here tomorrow?
 TOM LEWIS: He'll definitely be here this afternoon, but I don't know, you'll have to ask my parents. I don't know what his plans are.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 TOM LEWIS: It was excellent. We didn't see it but we heard the crowds. You know, when the crowd screams like that you know it's in the hole.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, it was great. I was going to hit 6-iron and he hit 4, so I'm glad I hit the 5 and hooked it way left.

 Q. Did you hear from Nick?
 TOM LEWIS: No, I haven't heard from Nick.

 Q. Do you think it was a benefit that you didn't have that much time between rounds?
 TOM LEWIS: Maybe. Last night I did get in late and got up early, but that's the best draw, getting out late and then starting again early because at least you know you're either going home or you can find time to practice for the weekend, so I'm pleased with the times I had. And you never get a bad time if you're playing with that man over there. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, no, I was thinking if I'm shaking I wouldn't move anywhere near as much, but I was a bit angry with me finishing there, but I think it hit a post, so I was very lucky. I wasn't aiming for it, I was aiming for more the pin. But I'm fortunate to have the opportunity to have an up-and-down, but I didn't hit a great putt.

 Q. How was your dad last night? Did you speak to him?
 TOM LEWIS: I didn't actually. I haven't spoken to my dad since. Yesterday he would have forgotten about and today he will be thinking about, so hopefully we can work on something.

 Q. Will he arrive here excited and full of ideas how to improve your game?
 TOM LEWIS: Probably both. Be excited that I performed yesterday, but secondly I don't think he would have been too happy with the way I probably hit it today. But I'm sure he'll be fine. 

 Q. Have you had a hole-in-one?
 TOM LEWIS: I've had one, and it was a 52, so I don't think it was really a hole-in-one, not like a 4-iron that Tom hit today.

 Q. What did you enjoy most about playing today?
 TOM LEWIS: Making my one birdie. That was probably the highlight. But walking down the fairway with Tom on 7, giving his tips on how he's won and the courses he's enjoyed is definitely the highlight of my career so far.

 Q. Did you feel at times during the round you were having to fight to get in there and that you might be slipping?
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, no, the crowd out there kept me going. If it was probably an amateur event where no one was watching, I probably would have slipped away more. But I made some great up-and-downs from positions that I didn't really want to be in, and hopefully I won't be in them positions at the weekend. 

 Q. Was that your girlfriend you smiled at over that birdie?
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, she'd be out here somewhere. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 TOM LEWIS: Yeah, Tom was really nice. When I was making mistakes and limiting double bogeys to bogeys and holing par putts, he was really nice. 

 Q. What would you have done if you hadn't played here this weekend?
 TOM LEWIS: Gone home and prepared for next week. I got an invite to Sweden, so hopefully I can perform well there. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 TOM LEWIS: No, I have not signed up with anyone. I'm an amateur, so I can't do things like that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT