OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 26, 2020
Tom Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Given everything down the stretch, a brave put at 16 to keep the dream alive but you've come up short. Reflect on the day?  
TOM LEWIS: It was always going to be a difficult day. Found the wind was down out of the left, a lot of time I was struggling with that wind, and I think around here you can't miss greens. Around here, it's going to be difficult. The greens look so fast and I think when that rain came in, it slowed it up and I think that's why you see a lot of my putts came up short coming in.   
It's a shame, but I gave it a go and when I holed that one on 16, I thought, here we go, might get a couple of birdies, but just didn't happen.   
 Q.  Obviously the 68 shot by Christian and Lucas, tremendous scores. Put them into context for us, because they played in the worst of the weather?  
TOM LEWIS: Yeah, I don't see that out there. I thought anything around par, maybe 1-under, would be an amazing score. To be able to shoot 3- or 4-under par around here today, it's hard to see, but I think Lucas has had a good night the night before, so I might have a word with him to see what he's doing.   
 Q.  Tied for third position takes you around 50th in the world. Will depend on results in America tonight, but certainly you're closer to the dream of playing potentially in the Masters in April. Is that a particular goal?  
TOM LEWIS: Top-50?   
 Q.  You'll be around Top-50?  
TOM LEWIS: Well, that holds me up a little bit. I don't know. I really don't know how the World Rankings work. I just know that it would be lovely to go to the Masters. To keep missing out on that every year, especially with the start of the career I've had, I've never been there, and hopefully I can keep playing well, play well next week and see what happens over in America, try to get into some events, maybe they will let me play a few, and maybe I can get in the Masters.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT