OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 25, 2020
Tom Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  65 today, 7-under. 73, 69, 65 suggests you're playing better by the day.  
TOM LEWIS: Yeah, I played solid the first day, I was a bit nervy, the greens are so fast and firm out there, and I was just really pleased with the way I plodded. I haven't played my best, but I've been successful and today I took the chances when I had them and I'm really happy.   
 Q.  Talk about this second shot on 18.  
TOM LEWIS: Yeah, it was good, it was a good number as well. It was 213 carry, my 4-iron carries 230, pin was 231, wind was slightly in and out of the right and I sort of just pushed it the tiniest bit, so it held it up and I think that's why it stopped so fast. So to have that eagle putt, it was a shame it didn't drop, but I hit a good putt.   
 Q.  You played here six times, made every cut but never finished better than 40th. Why?  
TOM LEWIS: I don't know. I know that fact and for me just to get in the top-30 here I would be happy with. So to get the opportunity tomorrow to go out and shoot a number, hopefully it will be the best finish I've had.   
 Q.  How excited about the possibility to win here, because it's a very special place.  
TOM LEWIS: Yeah, it's got some very special winners. It's a long way away, I think Ashun is ripping it up there at the moment. So keep doing what I'm doing, if the putts go in it's meant to be and if not, if I keep playing like this good things will happen.   
 Q.  You finished with 65. How satisfied were you with today's performance?  
TOM LEWIS: Really happy. I haven't really shot many low scores around here, so to shoot that score is great. I missed a couple of opportunities but I made a very good up-and-down on the 16th, so it kind of evens itself out.   
 Q.  You missed out of the cut last week, obviously finished the season at the end of the year so strongly. Were you just getting rid of some festive rust?  
TOM LEWIS: Yeah, I'm not as good as Lee where he can just short of chill for six weeks and drink red wine and walk up and win. For me, I probably didn't have the right preparation for me. I knew it was going to be a busy year, I wanted to enjoy my time with the family and friends. And I felt like I did the right things, so I'm just going to kind of shake the rust off and hopefully I can keep performing like I have.   
 Q.  You've got a busy year a held of you, a few options on the card. How busy is the schedule for the rest of the season?  
TOM LEWIS: It's going to be busy. Being able to juggle over in the U.S. and then here in European. Hopefully, I can manage it well, do the right things, treat every week as the same week as ever and hopefully get a few wins maybe both sides of the pond.   
 Q.  I think I saw on 18 you reflecting on the leaderboard and how the day was playing out. What do you feel you need to do tomorrow.  
TOM LEWIS: I don't know. It could be -- anything could happen, there's always someone that shoots a low score in the last round and around here you can easily get out of place and find yourself just 1-over, 2-over like I did the first round. But if I can keep doing what I've done the last couple of days and give myself opportunities to try to limit mistakes and if it's meant to be, it's meant to be.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT