TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 7, 2019
Tom Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  7-under 65, you exploded at the end. Did you see it coming?  
TOM LEWIS: I said to my caddie after 11, when I missed sort of an opportunity for birdie, I said, "I'm not going to make any birdies." I haven't made any in Portugal two weeks previous. I was like, "They are not going to come."   
He was like, "Don't worry, you'll be saying, like, you can't stop making them." Kind of what happened. Hopefully I can keep playing well and making as many birdies as possible. Making the putts I made -- the putts aren't rolling as smoothly as we would have liked. Obviously I read them well.   
 Q.  When you're in that place and waiting for something to happen, can it be just one shot, one putt? What's the trigger?  
TOM LEWIS: I think it's a confidence thing. The putt on 17 I holed was outside of birdie range, but I felt confident on it. I didn't feel confident the first 11 holes and didn't make any birdies, and I felt confident on that one and it shows.   
 Q.  You are a man with decisions to make because you went across to the last event on the Korn Ferry Tour, played one, won one, and now you've got big choices. What's your plan going forward? It's hard to go backwards and forwards across the Atlantic. What are you going to do?  
TOM LEWIS: I realised that a few months ago; it is difficult to play both tours. For me, I'm going to take my opportunities when I can. I think what I'm going to do is finish hopefully in Dubai, if I can make it there, and then play the desert in January in Dubai -- what is it, Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Saudi, and then go across to America for a few months. I think that's what I'm going to do. Hopefully things go well for me now until then and it makes decisions easier.   
 Q.  Overnight, what do you do here? Everything is all-inclusive, you don't have to pay for anything here.  
TOM LEWIS: Lucky I don't drink a lot.   
 Q.  So a nice, relaxing quiet Diet Coke, and turn up in the morning and hopefully let the birdies flow?  
TOM LEWIS: That's the plan.   
 Q.  Describe the back nine.  
TOM LEWIS: I holed a lot of putts out there. Just happened to be my back nine, and I had good fun. The course suits me. And hopefully I can make more tomorrow.   
 Q.  You say it's your back nine. Was there anything in particular -- obviously our playing well on the front nine, 1-under par, but what was the difference?  
TOM LEWIS: I think I just holed the putts. I felt like I wasn't comfortably rolling it on the front nine, even though I hit some good shots. On the back nine I continued to hit good shots, and I felt more confident on putts. That's going to be the difference this week between the guy that wins and the guys that don't. I think he's going to get good breaks, he's going to roll it well, and you know, they are not running as smooth as we'd like, so hopefully I can get a good run on the greens.   
 Q.  How is it on the rest of the course?  
TOM LEWIS: There's nothing out there at all. You can pretty much pick your distance and you just hit that number. It was a little bit the last two holes, affected my wedge shot into 17, but that was about it. Other than that, it was perfect conditions.   
 Q.  Late tee time tomorrow, what will you do?  
TOM LEWIS: I think just go and have some lunch and do some work on the range. At the end the day I want to focus on the next three weeks and progress and get better and better. There's things that I can always improve, so I'm going to probably go out and hit a few balls for 15, 20 minutes and then go and enjoy the all-inclusive.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT