SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: FLORIDA VS ALABAMA
December 14, 2020
Kyle Trask
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   Kyle Trask, take a moment to comment on the upcoming game against Alabama.
KYLE TRASK:   It's a huge honor to be in this position.  We've earned it by just grinding out all season, getting a lot of big-time wins.  We earned the right to be here.
We're really excited to have the opportunity to play for an SEC championship.  So, yeah, that's all we're focused on right now moving forward.  This team at the end of the day is really excited to be here.  We're going to put our best foot forward and try to get this SEC title for the University of Florida.
THE MODERATOR:   We'll take questions for Kyle Trask.
Q. What do you know about Mac Jones?
KYLE TRASK:   I know he's a very talented player.  He gets the job done for them pretty well.  It's going to be fun to get to play against another top QB, not only in this conference but in the country.
Q. Did you hear any of the comments Nick Saban made last night about you?
KYLE TRASK:   No, I haven't been on any social media at all.
Q. He basically said he has a lot of respect for guys that come up the hard way like you did.  Can't say enough about you positive.  What does it mean when you hear the greatest coach of our lifetime in college football praising you?  What does that mean to you?
KYLE TRASK:   It's pretty special.  Coming from a legendary coach like him, it's pretty cool.  We got a lot of respect for their football team, as well.  We both earned the right to be here with our play this season.
Yeah, it means a lot.  It's an honor just to have the opportunity to play in this game.
Q. What have you seen from Alabama's defense?  They started the year giving up a lot of points, then halfway through stepped up.  What changed?  What do you have to watch for?
KYLE TRASK:   It starts today.  It starts in our preparation.  That's what's going to win the game on Saturday, is just our preparation throughout the week.
They got a lot of very talented players on their team.  So do we.  Just going to start today with the coaches and players coming together, putting together a good game plan.  Not only that, but it's also going to be about executing it on game day.
Q. After going to the championship game as a freshman, did you keep anything, hold onto anything, as a reminder, motivation to get back there?
KYLE TRASK:   Yeah, I've actually been wearing the same exact backpack from my freshman year that we got at the SEC championship.  It says "2016" on it.  I always told myself I'm not going to switch backpacks until we get back here.  I guess I'll get to do that this year.
Q. What kind of shape is that backpack in after all these years?
KYLE TRASK:   It's getting a little beat up, I'm not going to lie.  Luckily we got the chance to go back this year.  It can finally get replaced (laughter).
Q. I don't know if you can think of it in these terms or not.  Do you see in yourself or Mac Jones kind of kindred spirits, guys that had to fight and claw to get to where they are?  What kind of message about perseverance both of you might be putting out on the field this weekend?
KYLE TRASK:   Yeah, I mean, I know he's a great quarterback on and off the field.  We've had to overcome some obstacles throughout our careers.  We both came to big-time football schools.  Now we're having the opportunity to play against each other, which is really cool.
Q. How is the program better or different now than it was when you were there four years ago?
KYLE TRASK:   I mean, I think both of those time periods had their pros and cons per se.  It was a great team that made it to the SEC championship in 2016.  We just didn't end up getting the win, needed to execute better.
This team right now is just so explosive.  I mean, they were both great in their own ways.  We have to do our best to take care of business on Saturday.
Q. I know you haven't really paid much attention to Heisman Trophy talk all season.  Did you look at it at all this week?  When you have three turnovers, do you feel that kind of really put a dent in your chances or do you feel like you still have an opportunity?
KYLE TRASK:   Yeah, to be honest, I haven't looked at it at all.  I made a bad read on the first turnover.  They got kind of a flukey, interesting interception there, which I never seen nothing like that for the second one.  It was just a couple mistakes by me.
But to answer your question, no, I haven't really looked at it at all.  I'm not focused on that one bit.  We're focused on winning the SEC championship right now.
Q. What does this offense have to do?  How big a challenge is it going to be to keep up on the scoreboard with Alabama?  This team is scoring like 50 a game.
KYLE TRASK:   Yeah, I mean, like I said before, we respect their team a lot.  They have earned the right to get to this game, just like we did.
From an offensive perspective, we're just focused on our job when we're on the field.  Like I've always said in the past, we want to score touchdowns every time we have our hands on the ball.  That's what we're going to be focused on Saturday.
Q. Do you think with players back, do you feel like your offense is right there with this group from 'Bama getting so much praise and leading the SEC in scoring?
KYLE TRASK:   Yeah, like I said all season, I think we have one of the best offenses in the country.  We have so many weapons all over the field.  So, I mean, it just starts today with our preparation, getting ourselves in the right situations, and execution.
THE MODERATOR:   That's all the questions for you.  Thank you.
KYLE TRASK:   Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT