CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: FLORIDA VS VIRGINIA
December 27, 2019
Kyle Trask
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. When you look at this offensive line and the progress they've made, do you see it slowly build, getting better?
KYLE TRASK: Yeah, I think the O-line is one of the closest-knit group of guys on the team. They've really come along. They're one of the hardest workers on the team, as well. Their progression has really showed throughout the season.
Q. Does it kind of get you excited about next year?
KYLE TRASK: Yeah, I mean, that's a great question. I never really thought about that. But the way this progression has gone with these young guys coming up, I mean, there's a lot of potential for next year for sure.
Q. To be here, I know you've been asked this, but when you think about where this thing started for you, what's it like? How has your life changed?
KYLE TRASK: I mean, yeah, definitely a lot changed, but this is why you come to play college football at a school like Florida is to have all the responsibilities that come with starting and whatever. But yeah, it definitely changed a lot. Like I said, a lot more responsibilities, but I think I kind of -- I've adapted to -- I mean, it's given me a lot more experience and a lot more confidence on the field and things like that.
Q. That being said, you've had 40 games in three years. (Inaudible)?
KYLE TRASK: Yeah, you know, I've always wanted to be a Gator, and I had no intentions of leaving. Obviously you're not playing, so there's going to be a little bit of frustration. But I just talked it over with my family and my friends. I've always wanted to be a Gator. Going into the season there was no reason for me to leave. I was still going to compete each and every day.
Q. Are you tired of telling the story?
KYLE TRASK: I try to stay pretty humble about it. I try to stay focused on our goal and not get caught up in all of that because if you get caught up in all of that, your performance probably won't be the same. I'm trying to just go one week at a time with it.
Q. Why do you think it wouldn't be the same? Putting pressure on yourself?
KYLE TRASK: You know, that's just my personality. I'm not going to get caught up in all the -- all the attention and things like that, the outside noise and hype. I'm kind of just trying to stay focused, and I think that's how I -- whenever I play my best is when I'm focused on just going week to week.
Q. Who had offered you before Florida or before you ended up with Florida?
KYLE TRASK: Well, I got my first offer from Houston Baptist University, and then I got a couple more after that. I got McNeese State and then Lamar University. Florida was the next one, and then I committed the next day after that.
Q. You committed the next day?
KYLE TRASK: Yeah, when Florida offered me, yeah, coach Mac and Coach Ness.
Q. (Indiscernible).
KYLE TRASK: Yeah, Coach Ness has shot me a couple texts. I'm very appreciative of him and the opportunity he's given me to come to a school like Florida because if it wasn't for them, I probably wouldn't be here. But yeah, he's shot me a couple texts and just let me know that he's proud of me and things like that throughout the season.
Q. When you saw last summer Joe Burrow and all these guys and you didn't know the success they were going to have, all the great success, did you ever -- did it ever cross your mind to say, this is for me? I know there are stories of guys who didn't have success, but did you ever think you'd be at this point?
KYLE TRASK: No, I mean, yeah, I know the transfer portal has been a big thing the past couple years, but I get asked that question quite a bit, but I've always wanted to be a Gator, and I still felt like I wanted to compete and just once I get my shot I was going to take advantage of it.
Q. Your situation aside, to see now the college football players transferring, what do you think that could do for the sport, especially at quarterback?
KYLE TRASK: I think it could be good for the sport if people use it the right way. I think it can allow schools to have more top-name or talented players and kind of invite more fans in.
Q. (Indiscernible) he was kind of on the fringe a little bit himself for a good while. What was your relationship like? He was talking one day and I couldn't find the quotes, but my recollection is you guys kind of formed a bond over the years.
KYLE TRASK: Yeah, we've been great friends ever since we -- or ever since I've gotten here in 2016. Yeah, he used to be on scout team whenever I was on scout team, and I guess that's kind of when it started, that bond you're talking about. That O-line group, he's kind of the center of that group, and they kind of take after him. He's very hard-working and very passionate about what he does.
Q. You had kind of a similar journey in some ways.
KYLE TRASK: Yeah. Once I think Coach Hevesy really helped him develop a lot when he first got here, and he's really taken off and been a great player these past couple seasons.
Q. (Indiscernible).
KYLE TRASK: Yeah, I was surprised. I've never even thought about it or anything like that. That was the first time I've ever even thought about it when she asked me, so that's why I kind of was surprised.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT