UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 30, 2019
Kyle Trask
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Florida 40, Florida State 17
Q. How important was it to finish up the way you guys did, with a big win over a rival team?
KYLE TRASK: I think it was just a big statement for us. We haven't been getting a whole lot of respect around the country. I think it was just a big statement win. For us to just finish strong, that's exactly what we did.
Q. Did you kind of feel like in the first half anything you dialed up was just going to go big?
KYLE TRASK: I mean, that's kind of what we want the field to be like for every play we call. I think we did a great job over the bye week, this past week of practice, just really being dialed in for game day. I think we saw everything just like we practiced. That's why we executed so clean.
Q. This team takes a step one win more than last year in the regular season. What did this team do in terms of advancing the program forward?
KYLE TRASK: I think last year was a big culture change around here. We all bought in. I think it's just another steppingstone, another building block. We plan to just keep it going.
Q. Today you became the first quarterback since Tim Tebow to have a home win against the Seminoles in the Swamp. Did that cross your mind at all coming into this game?
KYLE TRASK: No, I mean, that's the first time I heard that. I didn't really know anything about that. My main focus as a quarterback is to get the win for the team. That's all I was focused on throughout the week.
Every single week, that's my main focus, just to stay dialed in and try to ignore the outside noise so we all can stay locked in as a team.
Q. How did you practice this week coming in? Did y'all have good practices all week?
KYLE TRASK: I think we had some really good practices early on in the week. We had a really successful bye week of just getting those looks right. When this past week came, we'd already seen these looks multiple times. We're running multiple plays on all the looks.
Just like I said before, we didn't see anything new out there on the field. That's why we executed so clean.
Q. Talk about your senior receivers in general.
KYLE TRASK: I think they mean a lot to this team. A lot of those guys I came in with. It's kind of very humbling to know this is their last game in the Swamp. Makes you cherish every single moment. I couldn't be more proud of how this class went out with their last victory in the Swamp.
Q. (Question about the energy in the Swamp.)
KYLE TRASK: Coach Mullen's thing when he first came was to restore the Gator standard around Gainesville. I think we're doing that. I think it's only going to continue to grow and get bigger.
Q. Looking forward to not running any stadiums.
KYLE TRASK: Undefeated in the Swamp. No stadiums. That's a good thing.
Q. What does it mean to beat your two in-state rivals this year, building Florida's brand back up?
KYLE TRASK: Luckily this year we were able to play both of our in-state rivals. It's kind of just what I said before: we want to rebuild the Gator standard around Gainesville. We're just going to keep on setting building blocks every single year, keep it going.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT