KIA CLASSIC
March 29, 2019
Mariajo Uribe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Three birdies in your last four holes.  Turning it in the end.  What started working for you?  
MARIAJO URIBE: I was starting to get a little frustrated, but you just have to stay patient here.  It was weird, because I made so many putts yesterday with the bumpy greens, and the greens were so nice this morning and I wasn't making anything.   
So just stay patient.  I'm really glad the birdies game came.   
 Q.  What are you telling yourself to stay patient?  
MARIAJO URIBE: Giving myself lots birdie chances, so just keep trusting the reads.  I mean, we had an amazing group.  I played where Brittany Lang and Hee Young Park.  They been out here for so long, so it wad fun just talking to them and not thinking about my game that much.   
 Q.  It's not the ideal start to the season for you.  What's been change in your game this week?  
MARIAJO URIBE: I've been really close.  I changed coaches this off-season for my long game, so, I mean, it just needs a little tuning sometimes when you start playing competitive golf.   
But I felt good and last week I just couldn't make a putt, so that's been the difference about this week.   
 Q.  What is your new coach focusing on with you?  
MARIAJO URIBE: We're mainly focusing on the long game, like on sequence and staying in the same rhythm.  I start getting a little quick when I am in competition.  So it's really work.  I hit a lot of greens last week, too.  I just didn't make putts.   
 Q.  You you've been in this tournament every year since it's started.  
MARIAJO URIBE: Yeah.   
 Q.  What do you take away from that experience coming into this week?  
MARIAJO URIBE: I know.  It's our tenth year anniversary this week.  It was my first-ever LPGA tournament, so, I mean, I really like it.  They're bumpy, like I said.  You just have to remember you got to stay patient.  Everybody is struggling the same on the greens.   
I really like it.  I love San Diego.  The weather is great here and great food, too.  Stay patient out there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT