MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 17, 2014
Mariajo Uribe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Obviously solid round today.   Got to be happy about that.   
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah, I mean, I start a little bit slow, two bogeys and I missed a couple of birdies, but I stayed patient and it paid off.  
Four birdies in a row started me off, and then couple birdies and bogeys on the back nine.   But I'm happy with my round.   Hopefully tomorrow I can go low again.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned the strike of birdies.   How much momentum can you ride off something like that?  
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah, there were short putts so I was lucky, but I missed a couple of those at the beginning, so I just stayed patient and tried not to get tentative with my putting stroke.   That's what I struggled with that last week.  
Tried to stay patient this week.   It paid off and I'm happy.  
   
 Q.   Being one of the early tee times this morning, how much did that help you?  
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah, I mean, the course is in great shape so the greens are not changing that much from morning to afternoon.   No wind; really nice weather.  
It was just really enjoyable to play in the morning today.   
   
 Q.   How comfortable are you on this course?   Fourth time back here.   
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah, fourth time.   It's kind of one of those courses you like but you never do good at it.   (Laughter.)   So I think it's time for me to play good.   
I'm really excited to be heading onto the weekend and tomorrow.   Finally a good round here.  
   
 Q.   On the scorecard it looked like a very crazy back nine.   Was it as crazy as it looked?   
MARIAJO URIBE:   Just the par putts I didn't make, but then I made the birdie putts.   One of those days you just know you're hitting the ball well and you're going to have a lot of chances, so I stayed patient.  
   
 Q.   Coming off two missed cuts, any changes?   
MARIAJO URIBE:   No.   I mean, I was playing pretty good at the US Open.   Didn't really finish the week‑‑ I mean, 30th, but could have been higher up.  
Then Arkansas and British Open just like hitting the ball well but didn't‑‑ wasn't scoring.   
So it finally came.   I mean, I was hoping for a good round today.   This is a very important week for me.  
   
 Q.   What did you do after the missed cut?   Did you go home?  
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah, after Arkansas I went home.   Luckily I was able to go home couple of days to Colombia.   Watch the soccer World Cup and just get my mind off of golf.   
Went to the British, stayed there are practiced because the weather was so nice, and came here.  
   
 Q.   Perfect.   How about after the British?  
MARIAJO URIBE:   I came straight here but kind of got her late, so I only got to practice yesterday because he was bringing my golf days.   So it's one of those weeks you had to take a couple days off, so it paid off.  
   
 Q.   Feel like everybody had travel issues; stuck everywhere.   
MARIAJO URIBE:   Exactly.   I was happy to be here, though.  
   
 Q.   How much did you follow World Cup?  
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah, I went to the first match of Colombia and the opening ceremony.   So that was right before the US Open.   And then we follow, I mean, every...  
   
 Q.   Oh, my God.   So you went?  
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah, I went the weekend before the US Open.  
   
 Q.   Oh, my God.   Who did you go with?   
MARIAJO URIBE:   My husband went with me.   A couple friends were there, but it was hard to get in touch with everybody that was there.   It was awesome.   Brazil is always so much fun.  
It was great.   Colombia won.   We played pretty good.   So it was fun.   
   
 Q.   So they won the game you went to?  
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Awesome.   Very cool.   You think that helped going into the US Open?  
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah, it's nice to be fresh.   Sometimes you're like, Oh, my God I'm going to take four days before a major off.   We kind of had to having the men's before this year.  
I'm glad I went.   It's an opportunity I don't know if I'm going to have again.  
   
 Q.   Absolutely.   Obviously on the leaderboard Diaz is going very low.   Did you see this number coming out?   
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah, at the beginning we were like we're just not sure if the score is doing the right job because it's so low.   But it's awesome to see her playing well.   She's an awesome person and player and everything.   
If it's true, I'm really happy for her.  
   
 Q.   Seeing a number like that, does that give you a little bit of thought of, All right, I got to get things going tomorrow?  
MARIAJO URIBE:   I think course, it's always like that.   Every day somebody shoots8‑under, 9‑under.   If I can get one of those rounds this week and the other ones just steady, I can be with the trophy at the end of the week.  
   
 Q.   Cool.   Anything else going into tomorrow, tuning up?  
MARIAJO URIBE:   No.  
   
 Q.   That's all I needed.   Nice job today.   
MARIAJO URIBE:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT