KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 16, 2014
Mariajo Uribe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Overall, obviously a great round today.   You had a 65.   If you can, talk about how the weather played a factor in your round at all.   Why don't we start with that first.
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah, no, I just felt good, you know.   Like a day today you wake up so early and you're waiting the whole day anxious to play.
So I just stayed calm.   I like the girls that I was playing with.   And things happened.   The round started kind of slow.   I was over‑putting the first couple of holes and then just made a couple of birdies and finished with a couple in the end.
So feel really good about my round.

Q.   Like where you're sitting heading into tomorrow?
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah, exactly.   The whole point this year is I'm trying to stay in contention for the weekend.   Being right there in the top 10 with a chance of winning on the weekend, it'll be great.
Hopefully the weather stays good and the course keeps up and we'll have a great weekend.

Q.   Is that the lowest round of the year for you?
MARIAJO URIBE:   I believe so.   I think so, yeah.   It's been nice.   I had another good round in Kia, too, the first round.
It's coming together.   I feel really good about my game right now.   I feel good stuff for this season.

Q.   What was it about today that was clicking in your game the most?
MARIAJO URIBE:   There wasn't a lot of difference than yesterday, just the putt fell.   Hit a couple of close second shots today.
My driver was really good.   I have a new driver so I'm trying to get used to it.   Today it worked pretty well.   That was pretty much the difference.

Q.   Did you notice a change in course conditions as it started to dry out?
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah, I mean, the front nine it was so much longer than yesterday.   All the holes werelike ‑‑ on No. 12 we were 80 yards behind what we were yesterday, so definitely was a factor in the front nine.
Then it started drying out and the ball started bouncing a little bit more and the greens dried out a little bit.
I guess as the greens were a little bit slower you were able to be a little bit more aggressive with your putts, and I think that helped, too.

Q.   Do you feel like being able to complete your round, as opposed to some of the players here who have to finish tomorrow, is a huge advantage heading into the weekend?
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah.   As I said, I was a little bit anxious to wait this morning.   But it's good to be done.   We can sleep in and wait for the new tee times.
It's going to be nice to rest, because when you have to finish your round you don't get a good night's rest.
It's going to be great.   And the fact that I was able to finish my round take the momentum out of a good round is pretty great.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT