KIA CLASSIC
March 28, 2014
Mariajo Uribe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   All right.   I'm now joined by Mariajo Uribe, just turned in a 71 here at the Kia Classic in the second round to go to 6‑under.   You're currently tied for fourth.   You had a late finish last night, almost in the dark.   A pretty quick turn around.   Just tell us how you regrouped last night and came out today and played very strong.
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah.   I was just thinking that I wanted to finish.   I didn't want to come early today.   So had a good night's sleep, came back in the morning, and I played pretty good today, just didn't get the ball rolling where I wanted.   Just need a couple more birdies tomorrow, but I'm in good position for the weekend.

Q.   You said you were trying not to get too far ahead of yourself yesterday, get too excited.   You had a little birdiefest.   Mentally today what was the difference?   You just tried to stay calm and stay consistent.   Anything different?
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah.   Just the same shots I was hitting yesterday, just the ball wasn't rolling well which is funny because they were bumpy greens yesterday and better conditions I couldn't really seem to get it in the hole.   But I'm good.   I feel really good about my game and really positive about the weekend.

Q.   You're from Colombia, but you're a bit of a Southern California girl.   You went to UCLA, you're a Bruins alum.   You had dinner with the UCLA golf team.   They came out and supported you.   Is this a little bit of home for you?   How does it feel being back in Southern California?
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah, definitely.   I love California.   San Diego is one of my favorite cities, so I've been having dinner with the team and Tiffany Joh has shown me the taco places in town, so just having a lot of good Mexican food this week, and I love it out here.

Q.   Great.   Headed into the weekend you have to feel pretty good.   What do you think will be the strategy heading into the next two rounds?
MARIAJO URIBE:   I think just the same thing.   I just had one bogey in 36 holes, so keep doing the same thing and the birdies will come.   Just stay positive and keep going. 

Q.   Great job so far.   Best of luck the rest of the way. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT