U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2013
Mariajo Uribe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How did you finish?   
MARIAJO URIBE:   2‑under, yep.  
   
 Q.   Tell us about your day a little bit, how you arrived at a pretty nice score?   
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah, I mean, I started the day with a bogey on number 1, the tees were shorter, and I kind of had a tough time today with that.   The three holes that I bogeyed were the ones that the tees were short and I hit it in the bunker.   I didn't think I was going to hit it there.   
I putted really good.   Left some birdies out there on the back nine, a couple of five‑footers and six‑footers.   But still a great score out here.   
It's a U.S. Open week, and I really like the set‑up now, shorter and a little bit better.   So now tomorrow that I know how to play them, I think it's going to be better.   But just being patient.   I love the USGA events.   My game fits really well with them too.   So just staying positive this week and having patience.  
   
 Q.   USGA events, you haven't won any USGA events, have you?   (Laughing) maybe talk about the experience of USGA events and being comfortable playing in them?   
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah, definitely.   I think the most important thing of the USGA events is the patience.   So if it's a U.S. Am, it's like 12 rounds of 18 holes or something, so you've really got to stay on the pressure and really get things started going your way.   And U.S. Opens, it's just always tough to score well out there.   
I think that is the main thing, just patience, and I'm really good at that.   I have a lot of passion for the game, and I really battle out there.   So I think that's pretty much it.   I love this course.   It's in great shape, and I'm really excited we're here this week.  
   
 Q.   Do you play better on difficult set‑ups, or what is it about that?   
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah, I think I play better under pressure, so you really have to bring your A‑game to this tournament.   It steps up.   I mean, I come from missing two cuts the last few weeks, and not hitting the ball that well on courses that really didn't demand good ball striking, and today was great.   It's clicking.   I knew I was close, but finally clicked this week.   I feel really good about this week, definitely.  
   
 Q.   How did you adjust?   What was the adjustment in your game?   
MARIAJO URIBE:   In the tournament in Texas, in April, I hit a root off a tree and my wrist was really bothering me.   So my swing has always been based on a lot of hand movement.   So I've been working on that a lot and just using my body a little bit more.   I was going close, but it's one of those things, tempo, and just hitting a little bit fat.   
Just this week I'm well‑positioned.   I had the ball a little bit forward too.   So just working with my coaches this week.   But I was close the other weeks, just didn't get there quite the whole way.  
   
 Q.   So you had to change your swing a little bit to account for‑‑ was it your left wrist?   
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah, my left wrist.   I've been doing it already, but after the incident I had in Texas, I really had to step up.   I had to change it, because if not I would have had to change the last few weeks.   
In Mobile, I had to get used to the swing.   I feel like it's great.   But I planned my season to pick up this time.   Because it's the U.S. Open, and then we have the British and a couple of really good purses coming up.   So I feel really good about this week.  
   
 Q.   Tell us about the birdies you made, especially the one on the last.   
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah, I made two bogeys like 14 or 15 or something.   I really wanted to finish 2‑under, and I got it all the way to 3.   I had a lot of opportunities and didn't make them.   So it's one of those things where you really force yourself to have a birdie and finish on a good note.   Because it was a really good day, but if you didn't make it, it would have been kind of bummed at the end.   
But I birdied number 9, number 7, and number 5, I think.   So really spread out the birdies.  
   
 Q.   What did you hit on the last hole?   
MARIAJO URIBE:   I hit driver and 3‑wood, and I was a little in the rough, so I hit a really high 52 ° from 100 yards and stuck it close.   But it was a five‑footer that broke the cup.   So you've just got to trust the line and hope they go in.   The other ones didn't go in, but that one did.  
   
 Q.   You just missed a couple of five‑footers too?  
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah, it's this course, you know, subtle breaks and really sloping greens.   That's the way it goes.   Some lip‑out, some go in, and you've just got to stay patient.  
   
 Q.   You feel like you're rolling it well?   
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah, I feel like I'm putting well.   A lot of my birdies were close, too.   I hit the ball really well today.   A couple of long putts I made.   But it's just one of those things that you cannot go doubting yourself on courses like this, because everybody's missing short putts and a couple of made putts out there.  
   
 Q.   What was the longest putt you made?   
MARIAJO URIBE:   I think 5.   It was probably a 20‑footer for birdies, so that was my first birdie, and it was a really good way to start the momentum going forward in the round.  
   
 Q.   Kind of settles you down?   
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah, started with a bogey.   But then still just keep it close to even par this week, and I think you can be in the hunt on Sunday.   
   
 Q.   I apologize to jump backwards.   But what hole did you hurt your wrist on and what round?   
MARIAJO URIBE:   First round of Texas.   I'm pretty sure it was my 7th hole, hole number 16.   So I kept playing.   It was a really firm course.   They had not that much rain over there.   I heard their winter wasn't really that strong, so the course was pretty firm.   I thought the root wasn't there, I tried to test it, and I hit it.   But it's one of those things, and it wasn't anything super serious or anything.   But as golfers we usually have a little tendinitis in that hand because we use it a lot.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah, I travel with a physio.   He travels with five of the players out here.   That's really nice.  
   
 Q.   Is this the best you felt since you got hurt as far as where your game is?   
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah, like three weeks after I kind of felt good with my swing again in Mobile, I finished tied for 12th with 14‑under, which is good.   But that course, just a lot of birdies and I wasn't able to go up to the top.   But my putting has been really good lately, and that's kind of what's been saving me because I wasn't hitting the ball that well.   So everything's clicking now, and the fairways are super wide here, so hopefully that helps out too.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT