SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 1, 2012
Mariajo Uribe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I guess just run me through your day, just going down your card, you had a double on 2?  
MARIAJO URIBE:   Uh‑huh.  
   
 Q.   Answered with birdie, par, birdie.   How did that stretch go for you?  
MARIAJO URIBE:   Well, No. 2 is a really tough hole, and the way it's playing it's more like No. 2 is a par‑5 and No. 3 is a par‑4.   
So I had a bad tee shot and hit it in the fescue and just thought go in with a bogey and I hit it in the green and three‑putted.   
It's hard.   The greens are bumpy.   It's the afternoon.   It's really windy.   But I just kept thinking in the moment and hitting little golf shots, like I knew I was going to have a couple of birdie chances at the end on No. 9, so I just stayed patient.  
   
 Q.   Everyone said there are times, especially on the par‑5s, since this is kind of a short course, that there's chances for birdies.   You're kind of pushing for it and chancing it, go for those birdies?  
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah.   They're playing, like 9 and 18 today they were playing downwind, so we could go for it, but on 18, same thing, I hit it in the fescue, so I was just trying to get it up‑and‑down and get a par.   So it's kind of like a risk and reward because if you hit a bad shot, then you're going to have some trouble.   But it's a good course, really short par‑4.   I went for it today, and just hitting good shots, and I'm positive for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Now, they said it's going to be probably the shortest course all season.   Does that play to your strengths as a long hitter?  
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah.   I think I am a little bit long, but I'm hitting it straight with my driver, so I think that's helping me out and just hitting really good hybrids into the par‑5s and stuff like that, so just stay patient and making putts.  
   
 Q.   And I guess obviously the wind's been a factor.   Did you see it on the front nine or back nine worse, because I think it died down a little bit in the afternoon.   
MARIAJO URIBE:   Yeah.   It was really bad, especially near the bay and stuff, it's always bad, but I just felt I was really consistent throughout today and I haven't played in the morning yet, so hopefully we'll see how it goes.  
   
 Q.   This is a three‑day tournament.   Is that kind of more of a thing in your head where there's no room for error or you kind of just treat it as a normal four‑day?  
MARIAJO URIBE:   It's kind of the same thing.   You definitely want to be in contention from the beginning, but just stay patient.   It's kind of good, too, because if you have a good round, it's only three days, so that kind of gets you the head start for the weekend.  
   
 Q.   All right.   Perfect.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT