CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 23, 2018
Mariajo Uribe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So a bogey-free 64.  That's a great way to start a tournament.
MARIAJO URIBE: Yeah.
Q. What got into you today?
MARIAJO URIBE: I mean, I just think I took advantage of the opportunity going out early with a little cold but no wind.  I had like nine really good birdie chances on the first nine holes, and I didn't make any on the par-5s, which was a little annoying.
I stayed patient and then end up with a couple birdies on the front nine, so that was good.
Q. This one here on 9 was particularly nice.  About how long was that?
MARIAJO URIBE: I don't know.  Really long.  Maybe like, what, 30 feet or something.  I hit a really bad third shot with a wedge in my hand; I was a little disappointed about that, but that's the way golf goes.
I missed a lot of short putts today for birdie, and then I made that long one on the last.
Q. If you had nine birdie chances on the front nine means you were putting it in close.
MARIAJO URIBE: Yeah, it was playing not that long, a lot of wedges, and the long clubs that I had I put it pretty close.
I'm driving the ball really good, so I was not in the rough at all today.  That really helps on this golf course.
Q. Helps, as you said, you got you out early and the scoring conditions seemed perfect.
MARIAJO URIBE: Exactly.  It's nice to start with a bogey-free round to actually see my golf game getting where I know it is, and it's going to be a good week.
Q. It looked like you had really good speed on the greens most of the day.  Is that a key on this golf course, do you think?
MARIAJO URIBE: Yes.  It was really tricky actually the front nine, that was my back nine.  Was a little hard because the greens are not in the same condition with the winter that you guys had, so you have to really focus to see which greens are slower and faster than the others.
This week we don't have a greens book, so I really had to focus on it and let my caddie read the greens and I just focus on the speed.
Q. Tomorrow is supposed to be very, very windy.  How do you think that will change the golf course?
MARIAJO URIBE: I think I'm happy.  Sometimes when you have rounds like this and you don't take advantage of it, then the next day you're like, Why didn't I just make more birdies the day before?
So tomorrow I'm going to just go out there and be patient.  Luckily I don't have to go out and shoot a crazy round.  Just play steady golf.  There are still opportunities here.  There are a lot of short holes that you can take advantage of.  Hopefully take more the advantage of the par-5s tomorrow with the windy conditions.
Q. Your round of the year, and also the course record here at Wascana Country Club.
MARIAJO URIBE: Oh.
Q. What was working out there for you today?
MARIAJO URIBE: I think the key this week is driving the ball.  I hit it in every fairway.  I think I missed the last hole; No. 9 I missed on the second cut, but never on the high rough.  That's a good key.
I gave myself opportunities.  Missed some short birdie putts, but then made some long ones.
Q. Early on in the week was this the kind of golf course that kind of fit your eye?
MARIAJO URIBE: I'm really straight from the tee so it does help here, but I never really feel that.  I think once you play the first round then you say fits your eye, but I never really feel that.
That was one of the main things I really liked about it, that the rough is really thick.  We haven't really had thick rough lately.
Q. How important was it to get off to a good start this morning?  No wind.  You had to lift, clean, and place from the fairways as well.  How important was it to get off to a good start?
MARIAJO URIBE: Yeah, took advantage of that good weather we had this morning.  Like no wind; a little cold, but nothing crazy.  It's nice to get it done and actually took advantage of the great weather we had, because tomorrow seems like it's going to be windy.
It's nice to have a good round in the first round when the conditions were maybe playable.
Q. Do you have maybe a change game plan for tomorrow afternoon with the weather conditions?
MARIAJO URIBE: No.  Same.  Going to go practice a little bit and take advantage of the no-wind day.  Yesterday was so windy we couldn't really hit that many balls.
Just the same thing.  If the speed on the greens keeps up like the way I've had it, I'm sure I'll make a lot of birdie putts.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT