U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2008
Mariajo Uribe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 FULL AUDIO INTERVIEW

  
Q. At one point you looked at the scoreboard and you were six  
strokes ahead of Lorena, what were you thinking?
 MARIA JOSE URIBE: I didn't really notice that. I was just having fun out there and staying patient. I know that it's a U.S. Open and I'm not going to think about the scoreboard right now. It's four days, I'm just having fun out there.
 
  
Q. Were you at all nervous with the pairing you had, you had the  
defending champion and the No. 1 player in the world?
  
MARIA JOSE URIBE: You're always nervous. I like  
that. I like to play under pressure. I knew I was going to  
play good today.
 
  
Q. What about the pressure do you like so much?
 MARIA JOSE URIBE: I don't know, it's just like me, like every time I'm under pressure I do better than when I'm just playing for fun and stuff. If you play with me on a Saturday at a golf course, I know you're not going to think that I'm a good player. I don't know, it's just that. I'm a competitive person, probably, that's why.
 
  
Q. Was it nice playing with Lorena, what's your relationship  
like with her? You were walking down the fairway, chatting it up  
and having a good time. 
 MARIA JOSE URIBE: Definitely. It was better playing with Lorena than any other British Open champion. She talks to you on the golf course and I like that. I don't know, it was really fun.
 
  
Q. She said she was complimenting you on how fast you picked up  
the English?
  
MARIA JOSE URIBE: I think her English is good. I don't  
think my English is that good, but I'm working on it. 
 
  
Q. How long were you -- were you in the academy for a year or  
two years?
 MARIA JOSE URIBE: Yeah, I was for a year in the IAJGA, in South Carolina, and then I went home for my senior year and came back for college. So just one year.
 
  
Q. Are you going back to school?
 MARIA JOSE URIBE: Yeah, definitely. Well, if I like win the U.S. Open or something like that, maybe, but, no, my plans are to finish college. I know that education is really important for me and I wanted to mature as a golfer, too.
 
  
Q. (Inaudible.)
  
MARIA JOSE URIBE: I'm not. I'm just thinking about having  
fun. If I do my job out there probably I'll have a chance to  
win. 
 
  
Q. You kind of played it like a college tournament. Did it  
feel any different than a college tournament for you?
 MARIA JOSE URIBE: I have a caddie, it's always nicer. But everything else is just -- every tournament is the same, you know. Anywhere that I go I go there to win. It doesn't really matter where I am, I just want to play golf and do birdies.
 
  
Q. How much family do you have this week here?
 MARIA JOSE URIBE: I have my parents and my sister and there's a couple of people from my course back home that came all the way back here. So a little bit of pressure down there it's okay. Just like six people.
 End of FastScripts 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT