BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 17, 2018
Mariajo Uribe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  5-under, 67, which puts you right in the mix; although to win your first LPGA event you're going to have to catch a woman who is in the Hall of Fame.  You're one shot behind Inbee Park.  
MARIAJO URIBE: I'm not thinking about that.  I'm just thinking of putting good rolls on my putts.  That's all that matters on this golf course.  You can make a lot of birdies out there.   
Just keep playing my game like I did today, and we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  You've been in this position playing in the last group a couple before.  What did you learn from those experiences that you hope to take into tomorrow?  
MARIAJO URIBE: Yeah, the first time I think I managed myself pretty good.  It was just not enough to catch Suzann the first time.  Second time it was with Brooke.  It's always been with people that have experience and have won before.   
So just stay in the present and keep playing my game.  Don't change the strategy to try to win.   
 Q.  Nice day today.  5-under par and you're right there in the mix.  Talk us through what was working for you today.  
MARIAJO URIBE: Yeah, this course has never been a good fan of my game.  I was even thinking of not coming this year, but I cam earlier.  My caddie lives here, so we practice a lot the advance week.   
My putting is going well, and that's all that matters on this golf course.   
 Q.  What you do you think the difference has been?  You thought about not coming you said.  You're here and in second place.  What's been the difference?  
MARIAJO URIBE: I think just making putts.  The other years it's not that I played bad; you have to shoot a lot under on this course to be in contention.  So just trusting that and taking into account the grain.  I didn't do that before because they're not like bermuda greens where you're actually thinking about the green, but it affects a lot.   
So just taking advantage of the birdie opportunities out there.   
 Q.  Pretty exciting.  Tomorrow you'll play in the final group; one shot of the lead.  What'll be important for you to have a successful Sunday tomorrow?  
MARIAJO URIBE: I mean, I shot 4-under the first two days, 5-under today, so pretty consistent.  Just keep doing what I'm doing.  That was my strategy going into the week, 4-under every day, and we'll see if it's enough.  I just don't want to change my strategy.   
I've played with Inbee before, so just keep playing my game.   
 Q.  You played in the final group a couple times.  What are you learned about what it takes, the pressure, and how can that help you tomorrow?  
MARIAJO URIBE: Yeah, I've handled the pressure well before.  I've maybe changed my strategy on the last couple holes to try to win.  That's something I'm not thinking about tomorrow.   
Just stop looking at the leaderboard and play my game and we'll see if it's enough.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT