CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 18, 2016
Mariajo Uribe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you feel about today?  
MARIAJO URIBE: I mean, I play pretty similar than yesterday, but just didn't make the stupid mistakes I did yesterday and made a couple more putts.   
I changed the weights in my putts because the greens are pretty firm and fast this year, so that seemed to help.   
I had fun.  It was nice to get out first, one of the first off, and play a little faster.   
 Q.  What were you planning on doing this week?  You weren't even in this event until...  
MARIAJO URIBE: Yeah, coming into Asia I knew I had to play pretty good.  I had two Top 10s, so that really help.  Once I got in Lorena's I knew I had to had a decent week there to come.   
I was 90% in the tournament, but still had to go there and shoot the numbers to get in.  This course usually hasn't like me, so I really wanted to come with like a fresh mindset and really take advantage of it.   
So it's kind of nice...   
 Q.  They redid it all.  
MARIAJO URIBE: Yes, so I love the greens now.  Bermuda is what I grew up with.  When I came here and saw the course was such a good shape my goal was to shoot 3-under every day.  That's pretty much where I am.   
So I'm excited for the weekend.   
 Q.  Did you feel like you had some momentum coming in here playing well, and just to get a chance to get in the tournament then...  
MARIAJO URIBE: Definitely.  I mean, I've struggle in the middle of the season.  The two Top 10s in Asia really help me.  Last week I was in contention, too.  The greens on the weekend didn't really went for me.   
I'm excited.  I'm playing good.  Playing in Asia help me.  I am not tired.  Usually by the time you get here you're like so tired, so over it, you want the season to be done.   
But right now I'm actually excited to be playing and really want to keep playing good to keep moving up in the standings.  It's kind of been a different year, and give me perspective on how to approach this tournament in the next couple years.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT