OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 16, 2016
Mariajo Uribe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How amazing has this experience been thus far?  
MARIAJO URIBE: I mean, so nice. The golf course is unbelievable. Being in South America for me, it's so special. My whole family is here. We've been watching other sports, seeing the guys win the medals. I mean, it's been great to stay in the village, just a whole different week for us.   
   
 Q. What's it been like in the village?  
MARIAJO URIBE: It's just so big. You have to take buses to the buildings; that it's so big, going to the gym and seeing all the other athletes there, seeing Usain Bolt. Just everyone stays there. I always thought all the big stars, they don't stay there, but everybody stays there. It's just a nice atmosphere. It's cool. Everybody is so friendly and everybody wants to know what you play. They are a little shocked when they hear that you play golf.   
   
 Q. You're now an Olympic athlete.   
MARIAJO URIBE: Yeah, it's so different. And like to talk to all these guys that you see that they run all these kilometers and all the triathlon and marathon people, and they like actually admire golfers. They are like, it's so tough. It's unbelievable.   
It's been so awesome hanging out with other Colombian athletes that you never get a chance to do it.   
   
 Q. Did you get a chance to watch the podium on Sunday with the men, and what was the thought going through your head?   
MARIAJO URIBE: I mean, it was just so special to see the flags going up and hearing the anthem. To see those PGA guys that you see them every week playing, like they really, really cared about it.   
Matt Kuchar was really going for that medal. Like it just felt like not a week like the others and really special to see them walking around. They never took the medal out of their shirt. So it was really special to see that and to see them coming down the stretch the last couple of holes, it was really exciting.  
   
 Q. Talk about the importance of this opportunity for women on a stage like this, maybe even different than the men?  
MARIAJO URIBE: Yeah, I feel like the crowds, being from South America, I wasn't expecting that many crowds like the men had on the last round, and I've been trying to buy tickets for friends and they are pretty sold out, and for us, too. It's going to be amazing.   
Almost all the top players from the women's part are here, so it's going to be an awesome showplace for us to show our game. I think we are playing almost the same yardage as the guys on some of the holes, so it's going to be interesting to see what the scores are like, but I'm sure it's going to be great.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT