CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
July 2, 2016
Mariajo Uribe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. In a great position for tomorrow.  How are you feeling ending today and heading into tomorrow?
MARIAJO URIBE: Yeah, I mean, this week I've just been putting good.  That's always good.  That's what is putting me in a good position.
But my ball-striking hasn't been great, and today was definitely not good, but I was able to save it.  I'm happy where I am.  I know tomorrow if I hit it close I'm going to be able to make the putts because today I putted great again.
I'm really excited.  It's nice to play with somebody like Brooke that's so young and aggressive.  I love match play, so today I just went out with the mentality of playing match play against her and staying alive until 18, and we'll see what happens tomorrow.
Q. Yesterday you said it was your aggressive Colombia nature that came out.  Is that what makes you like match play type of feel?
MARIAJO URIBE: Yeah.  It was kind of nice today just to play with her and see how -- remember how I used to play en I was 18.  So just putting, keep doing it aggressive.  I'm going to work a little bit on my game right now, go to the driving range and hit a couple shots and get my tempo back for tomorrow.
Q. So on 13 when you hit it in the water, when Brooke hits it in the water too, does that help you overcome that?
MARIAJO URIBE: Yeah.  I've been drawing the ball so much today, so when it went, it's just one of those things.  I know there were some birdies there.  Of course when you see the leader go in the water it kind of -- I mean, not a relief, but anybody can do that kind of thing.
We were on the clock, too, so we had to play fast.  It was just one of those holes.  Luckily I bounced back out of it and I feel good where I am.
Q. Tomorrow, what would a win mean for you?
MARIAJO URIBE: I mean, it would mean a lot.  I mean, a Colombian hasn't won on tour for a long time.  Just being an Olympic year it would be good momentum.  This year has been a little tough for me.  The results haven't come.
Tomorrow I'm just going to think on my game; shoot a low round.  I love playing with Brooke and she's been playing so good.
If I win, I want it to be because I shoot a really good round not because anyone else struggle.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT