CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
July 1, 2016
Mariajo Uribe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You qualified for the British Open with your play this week.  How does that feel?  
MARIAJO URIBE: I mean, I'm excited because I really wanted to go to the tournament.  I have all my flights booked already.  I was planning on going on the Monday qualifier if I didn't, but just felt like I been playing so good this year, like making all the cuts, and then only cut I missed is last week and then it's the cutoff and I am finally like a couple spots out.   
I was bumps about that, but I just thought it myself, Play aggressive today's and don't think about that.  It worked.   
 Q.  So will you try to -- are you going to just stop thinking about that at all so you can focus on this?  You're playing so well.  
MARIAJO URIBE: Yeah, luckily, I mean, it's done.  I'm in the British now.  Just going to think at weekend.  I really like playing with Suzann so if I get it lay with her tomorrow it's going to be fun.  She's really competitive, aggressive like me.  So brings out the best in me.   
I'm just looking forward for the weekend.  I'm putting good so I feel really confident.   
 Q.  That was a pretty long putt on 18.  Looked kind of frustrated that you missed that putt.  You just been like in a groove where you think you can make everything?  Manage?  
MARIAJO URIBE: Yes, I'm not hitting the ball that well but the few birdie opportunities I've had I've made.  I just feel like I have the speed this week.   
They were another bumpy towards the end so would have been nice to make it.  It's just me.  I'm just emotional on the golf course.  Don't take it personally.   
 Q.  You were able to bounce back from a bogey on 1, and then bogey, what...  
MARIAJO URIBE: 14 or something.   
 Q.  Yeah, and then birdie on the par-3 couple holes after.  
MARIAJO URIBE: Yeah.  On the par-3 I almost hole in one, and then I missed the birdie putt and then I birdie 17.   
 Q.  Yeah.  
MARIAJO URIBE: So I just -- I mean, it's a course that you just have to give yourself chances.  Just keep trusting on my swing and don't thinking too much about it.   
 Q.  You've had kind of ups and downs here.  Does it necessarily suit the style of your shots?  
MARIAJO URIBE: I think it does.  I like the course.  It's just the greens are so -- you just have to be on with the speed.  I feel like they have to come with a higher speed than normal, because if not, they just pretty much die on the hole.   
So I think that's what I struggled with last year.  I think it depends, when you come, the time of the year.  There are so many tournaments.   
Lucky enough I'm in a good position right now.  Two years ago I played good on the weekend too here.  I feel good about the course.  My shots are not perfect, but all you need to do is putt well out here to shoot low.   
 Q.  You say you like to play aggressively.  So really go for pins?  
MARIAJO URIBE: Yeah, just sometimes I don't even try to go aggressive.  It just comes out.  It's just my natural instinct.  On 18 I wasn't going for the pin but it came out right at the pin and then I made the birdie.   
That's kind of how my game is.   
And with the putts I'm trying to be more aggressive like I used to play in amateur golf.  Just back to my old habits, and it seems to be working.   
 Q.  Have you patterned that aggressiveness after anyone?  You have a hero?  An idol?  
MARIAJO URIBE: I mean, Tiger.  I grew up seeing Tiger play and he's pretty aggressive.  So probably that.   
And just the Colombian in me.  Probably all the Colombians are pretty aggressive.  It just comes naturally to me.   
 Q.  And how excited are you to be in the position you're in now?  
MARIAJO URIBE: Yeah, I mean, I've been here before, so hopefully I can make it happen this weekend.  But as I say, it's just nice to be in that position.  I know I handle it well.   
I'm excited to finally have a good tournament going on.  This year has been a little tough for me.  It's kind of nice to be in that position for the weekend.   
 Q.  What do you think score-wise is going to win this tournament?  
MARIAJO URIBE: I don't know if it was just the afternoon round, but the course was playing tougher today.  Way firmer greens.  Really depends what the tournament wants to do with it.  With these conditions, I'm thinking probably around 18 will be a good number.   
We'll see.  Just hard to know what the weather is going to be like.  I'm just probably do another 5-under, 5-under, shoot 20, and see what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT