MOUNTAIN WEST MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 9, 2016
Dave Wojcik
Princeton Onwas
Ryan Welage
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Colorado State - 80  San Jose State - 61   
THE MODERATOR: Coach, if we can just start with you, some comments on tonight's game.   
HEAD COACH DAVE WOJCIK: We got our butts kicked tonight.  They outplayed us right from the get-go.  They came out and they were in gear two and we were in gear five.  And they were accelerating past us.  We didn't do a good job on the glass, didn't make some shots early, which I think hurt us, because obviously it dug us a deep hole and we couldn't get out of that hole.   
I've got to give credit to Larry and his staff and his kids.  They beat us.  They had a good game plan, they beat us.   
 Q.  The first two games this season against Colorado State were very close.  The first game went into overtime in San Jose.  What do you think was the difference in this Colorado State team that you faced tonight in a game that wasn't so close?  
RYAN WELAGE: They just came ready to play.  And they're a very good team.  And I think one of the big differences was we just didn't hit shots tonight.  I think we hit a lot more shots when we played them that time and we made it close.  And they did hit shots.  They hit some tough shots, Scott and Gillon, they are very good shooters, they hit shots tonight, and we didn't hit enough.   
 Q.  It was clear that they were focusing on you.  What did you notice that they did differently in the matchup tonight than what they might have done in the first two games?  
PRINCETON ONWAS: You know, they took five guys to guard one, more help side.  And they just really dialed in and taking away my strength.   
 Q.  This is your last game as a Spartan.  It may not have sunk in yet.  But can you kind of just give us a few comments about this season playing your senior year out with an exciting group of freshmen and coming up with some big wins during Mountain West play?  
PRINCETON ONWAS: Most definitely.  It's my fifth year playing college basketball, red shirt.  Coach Wojcik took me in, he didn't have to, and I'm thankful for that.  I'm blessed to play for a coach like him and a team like San Jose State, being the leader for all these freshmen.  They look up to me as a team captain and a brother off the court.  So just blessed to have the opportunity to even be here.   
 Q.  You were part of a group of four true freshmen that came right in and made a huge impact on this team.  Can you just kind of sit up here today and sort of be the spokesman for that group of freshmen, and what you guys have the possibility to do in the future for this team?  
RYAN WELAGE: Yeah, we didn't really look at the big picture too much during the season, we just really took it one game at a time.  I'm definitely going to reflect on the season and looking back I am really excited to continue playing with them.   
I think we can do some big things.  We're going to work really hard this off season and look at what we did wrong this season and improve on that.  But, again, it was great to play with seniors like Princeton and Frank and Ivo, I really learned so much from them, as did all the other freshmen.  Along with the experience that we all got and everything we learned from our seniors I think we're going to come a long way next season and we'll be ready to go.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT