AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2006
Dominik Hrbaty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 


Q.  Your fourth consecutive five-setter.  Did it just prove too much? 

DOMINIK HRBATY:  I don't know.  I mean, I was tired already in the second five-setter, so it was already quite enough.  Like I said yesterday, I would have to be really lucky to win the match.  He was more fresh.  I think you could see after the third set he was one step ahead of me.  I was trying, but I didn't have enough power to run for all the balls.  I mean, he played good angles.  Then after he stopped missing, and that was tough. 

Q.  Serving for 5-3 in the third set, did the body say, "We haven't gone five sets yet"? 

DOMINIK HRBATY:  No, I think he got very lucky.  He hit a really lucky shot, lucky return from my first serve.  He hit it on the line.  I think, you know, that you cannot say in the tennis that you going to hit exactly on the spot 10 centimeters by 10 centimeters.  I mean, it can be 10 centimeters or 20 centimeters longer or shorter.  Then he won another long rally where I was in offense, and he came with a really good shot down the line.  And after that I think he started to run a lot more.  He started to play more aggressive.  His balls went in.  I don't feel like I made the mistakes to lose the match.  I think he played well to beat me. 

Q.  After Saturday in the heat against Andreev, then doubles, what did you do yesterday?

DOMINIK HRBATY:  At 4:00 in the morning, I was sitting in the bathroom having my feet in the water because I had so much pain that I couldn't sleep.  I had a really bad blister on my feet.  Then all day I was basically taking care of my feet and went for a swimming pool, had a massage, was worrying if I will be even able to run on the court.  In the end, I was really happy the way I played.  I mean, I had the pain, but I overcame it and I tried to fight to win the match. 

Q.  You felt constant discomfort and pain with the blisters?

DOMINIK HRBATY:  Yeah, of course.  I mean, if you don't sleep after the match like with Andreev, if you sleep maybe two or three hours, then you know that you have to play again another day, basically I couldn't put the shoe on, it was not easy.  And even before in the warm-up in the morning, I was not sure about my game.  But then I got into the match, so I forget about the pain.  I was just playing the tennis. 

Q.  Is it just one foot?

DOMINIK HRBATY:  Yeah, it's on the left foot.

Q.  Do you think playing doubles with Mertinak made you far more exhausted than before today's match?

DOMINIK HRBATY:  No.  We played in the night.  In doubles, you play every second match -- every second ball.  You have only half court.  I just tried to hit the serve and then Michal was trying to win the point at the net.  So I didn't move too much.  Anyway, we had the chances.  For sure, it didn't take any power from me. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT