US OPEN
September 9, 2004
Dominik Hrbaty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  Disappointing to lose today.  Do you feel this has been pretty successful?  Most people never heard of Dominik Hrbaty until this tournament.  Has to be somewhat successful for you. 
 
DOMINIK HRBATY:  I don't know.  I think I've been pretty long time there with the tennis.  So I make the better results on the Grand Slam than this one.  But I'm pretty happy with the way I played, the result I did.  I think before the tournament when I was thinking to come to US Open, I wanted to pass one or two rounds.  I did quarterfinals.  So I am pretty happy.  But also disappointed to lose the match.   But that's the sport, and there is always next chance - maybe next year.  Just get back hard to the practice, and I think if the next chance will come, just try to make it.  
 
Q.  What time did you get to the court, the facility, the other day?  How long were you here?
 
DOMINIK HRBATY:  I don't know.  I came early.  I was here probably from 10 o'clock in the morning until midnight.  
 
Q.  And how tiring was it, how frustrating was it?
 
DOMINIK HRBATY:  I don't like it pretty much.  I like, you know, I like to basically put on my clothes before the match and go for the match.  Maybe that affected a little bit my first set with Henman.  But, I mean, you can't do anything with this kind of weather, so you just have to wait.  Once you get on the court, try to play your best.  
 
Q.  Were you pleased when they made the announcement last night they were going to hold off, maybe give you a new day, down two sets?
 
DOMINIK HRBATY:  I don't know.  I think I would be happy to finish the match more.  Because I think he was getting a little tired.  I was feeling that the time we stopped, I was on top of the game.  I think if I would win yesterday the third set, then continue, I think my chances were better yesterday than today because I could see that he was more fresh, he was running much more better.  He was, I think, from the movement on the court, you could see that he's much more relaxed and probably he doesn't feel too tired from yesterday.  So I think my chances were better yesterday. 
 
Q.  Do you think the windy conditions today were advantage to his style?
 
DOMINIK HRBATY:  I think little, yes.  If you play serve and volley or chip and charge, then you take the ball earlier.  In the wind, it's very tough for the baseliners to pass on the net because the wind is taking the ball a lot of times.  So I think it was little bit better advantage for him.  But I can't say that he didn't have the wind also so, I mean, he have to fight. 
 
Q.  At the beginning of every set, you found yourself in a big hole because he broke your serve.  Was there anything wrong with your service in this match? 
 
DOMINIK HRBATY:  No, no, I don't think.  He just was returning very solid.  Today I couldn't serve my, I mean, full-blast serve, because with the wind it's tough.  I think that was better for him that I couldn't serve as hard as yesterday.  But yesterday when we were playing, then I had my chances always to break him.  I mean, I had couple times 30-Love.  He played well on the moments.  I think especially he was better today in the important moments of the match.  
 
Q.  The way he's playing right now, how do you see his chances to beat Roger Federer in a Grand Slam semifinal? 
 
DOMINIK HRBATY:  I think if Federer plays well, it's tough to beat here.  Even Roddick, with his game now, I don't think he can beat him because Roger just can so easily return 240 K serve, like a piece of, you know, paper.  For him, just tennis looks so easy.  Even such a hard balls from Roddick I don't think can damage his game too much because I think he's too good for that.  
 
Q.  When you have, obviously, conditions like this, it favors some people's playing style versus another.  You're known for your high ball toss.  When you went out there today, did you actually think about lowering the ball toss given the conditions, or do you just not do that?
 
DOMINIK HRBATY:  I always do that.  I always lower my toss during the wind.  Usually I serve more not as hard as when there is no wind, but usually I try to place the serve more, a little more spin.  But Henman, I mean, against Henman, he's returning really well.  Sometimes I think it's better to serve on him really hard that he doesn't have time, you know, to do anything with the ball, than a slow serve to have angles.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT