AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2001
Dominik Hrbaty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question, please. 


Q.  Dominik, 4-1, third set.  What do you think turned things from there?

DOMINIK HRBATY: I don't know.  I haven't think about the match yet. 

Q.  Did you think in the buildup to that stage it was turning your way and that you were winning control?

DOMINIK HRBATY: No, I don't think so.  I didn't know  -- broke me back, I was 4-3, then I hold the serve for 5-4.  Was 5-all.  He played some good shots and the set points, he was lucky.  He led and the ball just bounce up high and he got a chance to hit a winner.  I don't think I did any mistake, maybe just I hit two double-faults.  But it was only 30-love and it didn't mean anything, so I don't know.  Then after it was the third set, he just start to play better and I didn't give any  -- I mean not any, but not too many first serves.  That was important.  That's why he start to play better. 

Q.  In the second set when you decided to attack the net more and to get in especially on your serve and volley, was that something you thought about before the match as a plan if things weren't going well, or is that something you thought of when you were out there?

DOMINIK HRBATY: Well, just when I was out there.  I never played him, so I just had to make the tactics during the match.  And I just, after I lost the first set, I just saw that he's not going to hit any winners and he's not going to hit me any balls, that he's going to move me from one corner to the other.  I just decided I have a chance to come in.  I did it pretty well. 

Q.  Even if you lost today, you had a good start here this year on hardcourt.  Do you still consider clay as your favorite surface?  And from that, how have you planned your year?

DOMINIK HRBATY: Yeah, for sure clay is gonna be my favorite because you got, I think, the most beautiful tennis on the clay because you got so many rallies and that's something I like.  I grew up with this sort of tennis.  It's gonna be my favorite I think for ever.  And just I go home, I play Milan, then we play Davis Cup against Russia home, and then coming indoor tournaments and Europe.

Q.  Are you planning to play the Swedish Open this year?

DOMINIK HRBATY: Bastad, you mean? I don't know.  It's too far to go, and I don't know how is gonna be the season and everything, so it's too far.  I will decide maybe in the beginning of the clay court season. 


FastScripts by ASAP Sports….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT