TMS - FORO ITALICO
May 11, 2000
Dominik Hrbaty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. First of all, very well done. Just thinking back to last year at Roland Garros, how
close did you believe then that you were to beating Agassi in the semifinal? When did you
think it switched for you? 
 
 DOMINIK HRBATY: On Friday, I was really close. I think he was little bit physically
down on Friday, so I had a big chance that day and I was starting to believing after the
third set I won that I could go and I could beat him in five. But then we stop because of
the rain and next day I had a few chances, but he was playing well and was little bit
different because he was so fresh and he had sleep for a few hours. He had a rest from
tennis for a few hours, so it was little bit of different story. On Saturday I was
thinking little bit I could beat him, but it was tough. Like I said, he was more relaxed
and not tired like on Friday. 
 
Q. Today, I mean, did you feel you had the chance to beat him? What happened this year,
you developed this new strategy against him?
 
 DOMINIK HRBATY: There was no new strategy. Everything was the same like last year, just
I played a bit better than I did last year against him. So that's the difference. 
 
Q. What is it about his game that you like so much? You play always well when you meet.
 
 DOMINIK HRBATY: It's tough to say because I don't think this question can anybody
answer because you have some players that you like to play and you have some players you
don't like to play. Everybody on the Tour has these players, and I think everybody has the
players who likes and who don't like. And Andre is one of the players I like to play
against him because he's playing the style, it fits in my hand. And it's like Yevgeny, I
don't have to think too much and I knew quite well where he is going to play. So I don't
know to answer this question, but it's like that. Maybe that's why I beat him. 
 
Q. If you have to think about a player that you don't like to play against, because, I
mean, Kafelnikov, you like; Agassi, you like; Sampras, you were close to beating.
(Laughter.) Who don't you like?
 
 DOMINIK HRBATY: My coach. No, there are some players that I don't like playing, but I
don't tell. (Laughter.)  
 
Q. Pioline?
 
 DOMINIK HRBATY: Pioline, I play only once with him and it was very close. Maybe next
time I beat him. 
 
Q. What about Corretja or Santoro?
 
 DOMINIK HRBATY: Corretja, Corretja I beat two times and I did not two or three times,
so it depends on the day when we're playing who's playing better. So it's quite different.
But Santoro, he's gave me not so good. I mean, I don't see anybody likes to play against
him because he's playing two hands and he's like playing like musketeer, so he's strange
game and nobody is playing like him in the Tour, so he has a very good hand and he's
running very well, so it's tough. But we had really nice matches with Fabrice also, last
time in Indian Wells, three hours, 6-4 in the third set. And before I think I won once,
7-6 in the third set, and I lost again once in Marseille. So we had nice games. It's tough
to play well against Fabrice. 
 
Q. How well do you think your form compared today with that in Monte Carlo, and how are
the conditions on the court? Is there much difference?
 
 DOMINIK HRBATY: Yeah, this court is little bit faster and also today we hit some
rockets on the court, so the game was going to be faster. Yeah, today it's tough to
compare, because today I played really well and I was just feeling the ball so well and I
did not think too much about the game because Marian was telling me every changeover what
the score of the ice hockey game we play in World Championships. So, I mean, I was happy
that our guys won and I was fighting also for them and I was fighting on the court. I was
just feeling so great, so good, and I play the great tennis today. So I don't think there
is any mistake I made. 
 
Q. When is it that you thought you might win today?
 
 DOMINIK HRBATY: Maybe after one ball we hit in the first set really strong early, and
then I start to smile, and when I start to smile on court, that means that I am relaxed
and I start to play well. So when I realized I am relaxed and I am not shaking and I don't
want to beat so badly, I just wanted to play nice tennis and give something good for the
people. That's all I wanted to play and that's why maybe I was so relaxed. I know that's
why I played well today. Sometimes if you are concentrating so much, then it's not good
because you are like very stiff and you can't hit the ball. So sometimes only to smile and
play for other people. That's why we are there and that's what I did today. 
 
Q. After Monte Carlo, did you have a chance to go back to Slovakia? Did you meet, in
your case, your friend, the prime minister, did you run any marathon with him?
 
 DOMINIK HRBATY: No, I didn't run, but, you know, was funny because the people know that
I do tell stories, and they are saying that, I mean, that they were happy that, you know,
I said these stories. And I can say it today that I meet some friends from the ice hockey
and they are playing World Championships in ice hockey. I'm a big fan of sport, any sport,
and especially the Slovak guys there. So today I was -- like I said, my coach was telling
me every changeover, 3-1, 3-1, 4-1, we won it. I was so excited. And I'm big fan of
sports, any sports. 
 
Q. What was the score?
 
 DOMINIK HRBATY: 4-1, Slovakia win. It was a big game, the U.S. were the first in the
group and they were really tough. 
 
Q. When you played Andre in the past, your two games, you've had to come back from well
behind, 1-6 the first time you played, and then two sets down. When you won the first set
today, did you become more determined not to let any slips, to let's go from here?
 
 DOMINIK HRBATY: Today I played well from the beginning. My coach told me that I have to
start 100 percent because Andre is going to start 100 percent. So I didn't want to let him
go like the few matches before that I always lost the first set or I lost two sets. I was
fighting in the first set, then when I start to play well, then I just wanted to hold the
serve and try to break him and it work out. So I played -- I think the first set was very
important that I won, and I think then I played well. Wait, I have to tell them one more
story. In Key Biscayne, when I was playing Andre, I won the third time, Juan Carlos, which
he was watching the match. After the match he came to me and said "Hey, man, I
thought that ping-pong is really fast game, but I don't now." 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT