TMS MONTE CARLO
April 21, 2000
Dominik Hrbaty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What happened to your knee? That was on the last point when you were on the knee or
before?

DOMINIK HRBATY: I did it already in Brazil when I beat Kuerten and that was a really
hard clay court, so this time I had already it was okay, but now it is bad again. But I am
not worried because if I win more time I do it more time.

Q. So it was on the matchpoint, actually?

DOMINIK HRBATY: Yes.

Q. Is that sort of win up there with the near-miss in Australia; then the semifinal in
Roland Garros? You obviously must be very pleased at the way you played and the fact that
you were beating somebody like him.

DOMINIK HRBATY: Yeah, for sure. It is a very good victory. I am happy for that, but I
am trying to get my best for the Roland Garros so I think it is not still not my best
tennis I can do. I am saving it for -- to make it like step by step to Roland Garros and
then to play best at Roland Garros.

Q. Would you compare your game today and your game against Kuerten; what do you think
it is tough there or here?

DOMINIK HRBATY: It is different kind of game because Kuerten is playing more fast, more
aggressive than Alex. Also it is a different atmosphere. There I play for a team and for
my country and here is tournament. I usually play better in Davis Cups than normal
tournament. I usually give my best games in Davis Cup games. So it is a different game
also, different story.

Q. Do you think since the match was very intense that if you had to play best of five
sets you could have played like this or how is your condition, your form? Are you tired or
beat or not?

DOMINIK HRBATY: No, I never feel tired. I like especially to do physical work when I am
home. I do it everyday for two hours, everyday when I am home and it is one I think one of
the best - I don't know how to say - the game you have the shots, but this is the best of
the game and my physical work is one of the best altogether if you count it. So I can say
that I feel that I have one of the best physicals in the world from the tennis players. I
like to do it sometimes more than tennis to play.

Q. What are you doing that might be different this year to get you to Roland Garros in
peak condition? Are you dropping some tournaments?

DOMINIK HRBATY: No, I do it the same way like last year, I am trying to practice a lot,
playing a lot of hours of tennis on the clay and just to see the game, I mean, to start to
feel the game better because it is also beginning of the clay court season so I am trying
to make it that I will feel the ball the best way on Roland Garros; so that is also a lot
of hours of tennis in practice and also the matches.

Q. Why do you think so many of the top players, the seeds, haven't made it through
here?

DOMINIK HRBATY: Also because it is one of the first tournaments on the clay. It is
different running, if you play, let's say, I don't know the last tournament on the clay
was in September, Mallorca and or -- Palermo, in the beginning of October, then you have
six months of the hard court season, so it is different running, different movements on
the clay. It is also different game, so, that is -- maybe that is why. 

Q. Being a French Open semifinalist and being a proven clay court player, does it annoy
you that somebody like Greg Rusedski, who openly admits he is not very good on clay, gets
seeded here and you do not? Do you think they should seed by surface?

DOMINIK HRBATY: No, I don't think so. He is playing all the year well, so he deserve to
be seeded here. Doesn't matter. It is like me if I beat Top-10 I would be seeded in
Wimbledon. I mean, I would be happy but I never won a set on the grass court. So I mean,
it is not a question of one tournament or the surface. If you are playing well all the
year, you deserve it to be seeded also.

Q. Can I have follow-up on that same subject. Do you think it is fair on the public not
to have seeding by surface because you could have a situation, say, here where you and
Corretja, instead of playing in a wonderful match here in the ^^ quarterfinals, might have
played in the first round and one of you could have gone out. Is that good for the game,
do you think?

DOMINIK HRBATY: It is tough question because if you want to be the best player in the
world you have to know how to play in all the other surfaces, so it can happen, but that
is the game. You are never -- you never ask in the soccer if the teams in the National
League they can meet in the beginning of the season or in the end of the season. It is a
tough question. I mean, it can be maybe better for the public but you never know it could
also be bad match. Everybody of us can win 6-1, 6-0 and you would never ask this question,
so, it is tough to answer it. This is the game and that is why it is nice because you
never know if you play good match in the beginning of the tournament or in the end of the
tournament.

Q. Gaston Gaudio was in here earlier. He was talking about having changed his coach and
is now working with Horacio De La Pena, as you know. He was talking about how important
the relationship of the player and the coach is, almost like having a fiancee, but without
the sex, obviously, but the actual feeling, the communication and everything, what is your
view on that?

DOMINIK HRBATY: I think it is one of the most important things in the tennis. You have
to be -- you have to believe your coach what you are doing or if he is saying that you
played this bad or this good, you have to believe him that it was really like that because
otherwise if you don't believe him, then I don't think it is good for your tennis. You
have to be like one man also during the game, I mean, if I look sometimes to him, he
always support me and he show me that I have to fight and he never let me go down. I think
it is like a marriage because you are also travelling with him all the year like I travel
with him for maybe 25 weeks a year, so it is like almost a half of the year. You have to
be good friends and you have to understand each other, so that is, I think, a long period
of the year.

Q. We are very open if you want to have sex with your coach, feel free. But apart from
that, would you be able to give marks to yourself from 1 to 10 in your strokes? Let's say,
forehand, backhand, so that we understand, more or less, which are your strengths. In my
opinion there is a big gap between your first serve and your second serve.

DOMINIK HRBATY: Like what do you mean?

Q. You make a lot of doubles faults and second serve is not very efficient. That is my
opinion. But go ahead.

DOMINIK HRBATY: I don't know, sometimes I would give my first serve like a 9 and
sometimes I would give 0 because I can serve really well, I can serve really bad also,
depends because I have a high toss and sometimes I don't have a feeling for the ball, so
let's say this tournament I started to serve like not so good and -- but it is going --
improving every match, I am serving better, so hopefully tomorrow will be again better.
But my serve is sometimes -- also let us say like this, my game depends on my serve
sometimes because if I serve well, I play also the game very well. If I let go of the
serve bad, then my game is also not so good. So that is about the serve. Groundstrokes, it
is also tough because usually I have a better forehand but sometimes I can do more
mistakes from the forehand because I want to make more winners and I want to attack more
on the forehand side. Sometimes I play better backhand than the forehand. But also depends
on the match. So I would say the groundstrokes, it would be like 7 and 8. Then the volleys
was like in the beginning when I start to be pro was like maybe 2 or 3, it was very bad. I
wanted to shake only the hands in the beginning and the end of the match and make the toss
in the beginning of the match. But I am playing doubles. I am trying to improve volleys in
doubles. It is getting better. I am going there more often now and I am not afraid to play
a volley even if I miss sometimes. So now it is like maybe 5. Drop shot is like minus 1.
So that is why I never -- almost never play drop shot and overheads, yeah, it is also -- I
can miss very easy ones. Now it is getting better. I think it is about 6, 7.

Q. Just about your game, you remind me a little bit of Connors. What do you think about
it?

DOMINIK HRBATY: About Jimmy Connors?

Q. Yes.

DOMINIK HRBATY: I never saw him play. When I was younger I never watched the tennis on
the TV because I hate it on the TV because it is not in the TV not really like -- like it
is in real because you don't see the balls. If you have a camera very high you don't see
the balls to see it in the real way they are playing because you can play a high ball and
on the TV you still see it is the same level. I never watched Connors. But the only one I
watched was Miloslav and that was only one rally I watched in his game. He played Lendl, I
guess, Lendl in Key Biscayne and it was the one he played around the net. That rally I saw
20 times. I put it forward and back and forward and back so I was watching it because I
think it was the most beautiful rally I have ever seen.

Q. Do you watch tennis on television now? Has it improved?

DOMINIK HRBATY: Yeah, it has improved a lot now, these days tennis on television, I
think sometimes more nice than it looks real because of so many cameras and so many views,
and that is the difference than it used to be like 15 years ago. Now you have, when we
were talking at ATP meeting, they were saying like 16 cameras; you can see it from every
angle, see it from different angles so it is unbelievable.

Q. Why all Slovakian tennis players have high toss when they serve?

DOMINIK HRBATY: I don't know, ask Lendl. He was the one that started and then they
teach us like Lendl because he was the best one, so that is the school. Also we don't have
too much wind in Slovakia.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT