TMS MONTE CARLO
April 19, 2000
Dominik Hrbaty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
Q. Getting used to beating the top players? Is it becoming a habit? Is it easy now or
still a shock?

DOMINIK HRBATY: No, I don't know, if I play the guys I don't think if it is a Top-10
player or not. If you want to win, get so far in the tournament, you have to beat
everybody, so, I don't think if I am playing a guy who is 100 or 1000 or Top-10, maybe
because that is why I play more relaxed and I have better results against these guys.

Q. The seven top players lost, top seeds, lost in this tournament, do you consider
yourself as one of the potential favorites or you don't look so ahead?

DOMINIK HRBATY: I don't know. I tell you after the tournament. (Laughs).

Q. No, you have to tell me now.

DOMINIK HRBATY: Okay, so tell you: I have to win one more round; then I will tell you
again.

Q. Last your you went to the semis at the French Open. What happened since then to you?

DOMINIK HRBATY: I am still alive. Nothing happened.

Q. In terms of tennis.

DOMINIK HRBATY: I was injured all the summer during the clay court season which is my
favorite season, the clay, also the surface. I couldn't play 100% in the summer and then
during the hard court season I can do sometimes good results, but it is not more often
than like in clay. So it is tough tougher for me than to play indoor, hard courts, so it
was just that I was injured. Maybe I played too many tournaments before, before Roland
Garros, so this year I will play a little bit less and we will see.

Q. What was the injury?

DOMINIK HRBATY: After Wimbledon I get inflammation of the tendon here before the Davis
Cup in Russia, then I pulled a muscle after the tournament in Amsterdam, so it was two
injuries that I have during the two months.

Q. If I remember well in Australia when you were close to beat Sampras, you told us
something about a poster of a great player that you had in your bedroom. Who was that
player? I can't remember.

DOMINIK HRBATY: I told you that I was asking for autographs of these players, Sampras,
I got autograph of Sampras, Becker, of Lendl and Edberg and all these guys, big guys,
Agassi, I think, and two years before -- that was two years before I played Sampras, and
-- but the poster I had was of Becker in my bedroom.

Q. You still have it?

DOMINIK HRBATY: No, it is in the old apartment. But it is there on the wall.

Q. You are not a typical clay court player. What is it that you enjoy about playing on
clay?

DOMINIK HRBATY: I enjoy to play everywhere on any court anywhere in the world. I love
tennis. I love this game and it is my life and I just -- I am just happy if I can play
tennis. That is it. It doesn't matter if I played anybody who never played tennis. I am
trying with the left hand or something to, you know, that I am happy that I am on the
court. When I had a stress fracture a few years ago on my hand I was just practicing with
left hand on the wall, so I love tennis and I enjoy it so much. I think it is very nice
game so that is why I love it.

Q. If you played with your left hand would you win a game against yourself?

DOMINIK HRBATY: You know, when I had this stress fracture it was in Barcelona in 1996
or -- I don't know, 1997, maybe, and I was -- when I start the tournament I had already so
much pain in the hand that I couldn't hold a pen and I was playing two matches. One match
I won from matchpoints and one match I won like two sets and I don't know how -- now when
I realize that, I don't know how I can even hold the racket because I couldn't hold the
pen to sign the check after for the prize money. So it was so painful and I played. I
mean, it is so strange, but sometimes my coaches, they have to stop me to play tennis
because I play that match that I got the stress fracture, so sometimes I get injuries from
too much playing of tennis. What I wanted to say was that when I retired the game, I was
playing one game with a left hand because I couldn't hold the racket anymore on the right
so I was trying with the other hand. Maybe I won one point, but I didn't win the game.

Q. Against who was that?

DOMINIK HRBATY: Against Juan Antonio Marin.

Q. You said you enjoyed to play tennis but enjoy to play Kafelnikov very often. What is
it about his game that you like that much?

DOMINIK HRBATY: I love this kind of game. He is playing straightforward and he is
playing like not too -- from my look, he is not playing too hard or too soft. He is
playing the kind of game I like; then I can place the ball well and I don't have to really
too much things where he is going to play or where he is going to move or what he is going
to play, so I am just hitting the ball back and I am just placing the ball and giving him
hard time, so I will be happy if I can play him more often.

Q. Do you think you are playing your best tennis, especially or you played may be in
Brazil where you won two matches in straight sets against Meligeni and Kuerten?

DOMINIK HRBATY: I don't know if I played the best matches. I always remember the
matches that the people don't think -- other people, they don't think that that was one of
my best matches. But I like the matches like I played against Gumi, the deciding point in
Argentina, Davis Cup, or Kulti in Australian Open in 1997, and I remember these matches,
but a lot of people they are saying that you played this now, this is your best match, but
I don't know, sometimes if they say I don't like these kind of match, maybe I play well,
but I don't like-- I mean, I don't think it is my best. 

Q. Looks like you like to have the crowd against you because you won in Argentina,
another one in Australia. Now you played (inaudible) -- do you like to have the crowd
against you?

DOMINIK HRBATY: Not really crowd against me, but I like to play for the crowd, for a
lot of people, I always -- you can see my results if I play on the center court, I always
play good. I always win a lot of matches and I can beat really good players, so I like to
play for the people. I like to show them the best tennis and they can enjoy the tennis,
so, I said like in Brazil now that I am kind of the guy -- like there is a word for it -
exhibitionist - he likes to show off for the people. If nobody is watching, I play bad. If
there is a lot of people watching, I play really good, so I like to show off for the
people.

Q. Being an exhibitionist, how popular are you in your country now? How many athletes
you consider are more popular than you and who are they?

DOMINIK HRBATY: I don't know, it is a tough question because the most popular sports in
Slovakia is ice hockey and soccer; then it is also basketball is very popular, so the
people know about us, they read the newspapers, we are very popular. But I think itself,
the sport can be more popular in Slovakia, the people know us. If you say the name, they
know, but can be more popular, I think, because there is not too many -- I always say the
politicians, they can make a good name for the country, but they can also make a very bad
name. And sportsmen, they can only make a good name because if you win, you make a good
name. But if you lose, nothing happened, and you get another tournament. So I think the
real popularity for the country is very much in sports.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT