NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 29, 2005
Dominik Hrbaty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  Talk about the match.  It seemed like you really ran him around pretty well.

DOMINIK HRBATY:  Yeah, I played well.  I had a lot of confidence.  The important thing is that I was serving well basically during the whole match. And then from the baseline I started -- in the beginning of the match, I started to play well.  I had really couple of good rallies in the beginning, and that helped me. And since then I knew that I have a feeling for the ball for this chance.  I knew that I can play the ball wherever I like because there was the feeling in my hands. And then it was, you know, just not to make any easy mistakes in the important moments, which I didn't make.  I played some very good points on breakpoints.


Q.  He's obviously an up-and-coming player.  Do you think that your experience, being in situations like this many times, helped you through?

DOMINIK HRBATY:  Maybe.  Maybe a little bit.  But I have to say I played really well, that's why I won.  I mean, he didn't make too many mistakes.  Probably the only thing that I saw in the end of the match, that physically he was I think tired.  His serve went down because he was running a lot. But he's young and he needs to work on that because you can see that the men's tennis is really fast - I mean, depends of the opponent.  But there are opponents like me, that they play really fast.  You have to do lot of running. In the future, he improve his moving really well on the court.  He didn't miss too many shots.  He's serving solid.  So he can have a good future.


Q.  You're playing really well right now, starting off with the Australian Open, now to here.  Talk about going forward in this tournament and how much you would like to advance.

DOMINIK HRBATY:  Well, one more round (smiling). I can't go too much far ahead.  I mean, there are great players, either Ferrer or Ferrero.  I played couple of them -- couple times both of them. It's not going to be easy.  They're both playing well, especially Ferrero is coming back, starting to play really high-class tennis.  You have to fight.  Every match is going to be tougher and tougher since this -- I mean since every round.


Q.  Are you feeling as good as you've felt in a long time?

DOMINIK HRBATY:  Yeah, today I felt really great on the court.  Hopefully, I can keep up the level for couple more days. Served good, which is important on the men's circuit, to hold the serve.  And then with my game, I always said there is going to be always chances to break the opponent.  So if I hold the serve, then I can win any of these matches.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT