MLB EXPANSION DRAFT
November 18, 1997
Sal Bando
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How disappointed were you to lose on Adamson as opposed to anyone else you had on the list? 
 SAL BANDO:  Well, I think we felt that there was a good chance we'd lose him.  It was disappointing because he does a number of things for us.  He can spot start, pitches out of the pen, does a good job, is effective against left‑handers, so the role he played really will be a tough one to replace. 

 Q.  Tony Saunders was just talking about how he had no expectation of being drafted because he thought he was protected.  Do you have any thoughts on the secretiveness of the protected list? 
 SAL BANDO:  Well, I think they've done a very good job of protecting it this year, because I think most of the expectations that the media had down were maybe 80 percent, 75 percent correct, and if you look at the first few guys taken and you look back at some of the reports, they missed a lot of guys.  And I think not only did the media, but I think those of us in baseball probably thought different people were protected that were not, and vice‑versa. 

 Q.  Are you in favor of keeping it protected? 
 SAL BANDO:  I have no problems with it being let out, simply give us all a better opportunity to look at what players might be available, but there's some good arguments for keeping it a veteran, more having to do with management and the relationship with the players and their club.  But again I could have gone either way. 

 Q.  Sal, while you've been here, have you looked at your Spring Training facility? 
 SAL BANDO:  Yes, we went out this morning, actually about ten of us from our organization, to see the progress it's made.  And it's been outstanding, it really looks good. 

 Q.  Back to Adamson, he had bounced back and forth for a couple of years before you got him this year, were you surprised how he did come through for you most of the year? 
 SAL BANDO:  We traded, I think, two years ago at the Marlins and got him and really, he was a starter for them.  He pitched Triple‑A ball for us, one thing that we did notice about him is he had great command of his pitches and when we brought him up to the Major Leagues he spot started a few games, but he really took to the bullpen, and the second half of the  season he really threw the ball well for us, and I'm sure that's where he got spotted.  His velocity picked up, I think it's a great pick for the Diamondbacks. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT