THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 28, 2017
Tom Lehman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Former Ryder Cup Captain, you shot a 72 today but I bet you feel like it's closer to a 62.  What were you doing so well out there today in these tough conditions?  
TOM LEHMAN: I was hitting it solid, that's the big thing.  I was hitting it in the middle of the club pace most of the time and able to control the ball as much as I could and put it in the spots where I could make pars.  That's all I tried it do was make a bunch of pars and I made a bunch of pars.   
I made one bogey I think, or maybe two, but put it in places where I could roll it up there and tap-in.  It was tough, though.  I think the first nine holes, the first eight holes, just were horrific.  Playing in the worst conditions ever I think.  To get off in the front nine in even par, it was one of the better nine holes I've ever played.   
 Q.  What kind of attitude did you bring to the golf course to face these conditions?  
TOM LEHMAN: A really good one.  I brought a great attitude.  Just tried to win the inner battle.  That's really all I wanted to do, is not really worry about results.  Just every shot, just battling and fighting for that shot, and then take what I get.  That's really all I'm trying to do.  I think that's the way you have to play links courses is forget about everything else.  Just battle on every shot.   
 Q.  Nice way to finish with a birdie.  You must be happy with a round of 72?  
TOM LEHMAN: Absolutely.  Very difficult conditions to play golf in.  Golf is about momentum, and if you can get off to a good start in bad weather, especially, and you can find some kind of a rhythm where you're kind of plodding along, making pars, and managing, then you can deal with conditions like that.   
If you get off to a bad start where things go south right off the bat, it makes it for a very, very tough day.  But today I drove the ball well.  Put myself in places where I could get it on or near the green, and you know, chipped it and putted fairly well.   
 Q.  Weather starting to come in now.  Good timing you just finished.  
TOM LEHMAN: Well, I'm not unhappy.  You wish everybody to play their best, and that's the great thing about golf is you hope everybody plays well, plays their best and the expectation is that your best is better than their best.  So you don't wish bad luck or bad weather on anybody.   
 Q.  Clubhouse leader, you must look forward to being in contention for the weekend?  
TOM LEHMAN: Obviously I'm in very good position.  Got a very tough field here, a bunch of great players, and who knows what it's all going to end up with today.  I do know Langer is right there, too.  I think he's the same score.  He's proven that he likes this course in the past and he's playing the best golf of anybody by far in the last several seasons, so he'll be tough to beat.   
 Q.  Not many people have done the double Claret Jug for The Open and the Senior Open, and that's what you're now in position to try and emulate, a few of the greats that have done that.  You have your replica at home from '96?  
TOM LEHMAN: Yes, I do.  I have it.   
 Q.  What's the closest you've come in this one before?  
TOM LEHMAN: I don't think I've really had a good one.  I've never been close to the lead I don't think.  Maybe ninth or 10th, but six or seven shots back or something.  All depends on what this wind does.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT