THE RYDER CUP MATCHES
September 21, 2006
Tom Lehman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CAPTAIN TOM LEHMAN:  Honoured guests, ladies and gentlemen, both teams, I'm not sure about you, but see those flags go up is quite a moment, and I am very, very honoured and proud to be here.  There is such a strong bond, a strong connection between the United States and between Ireland; so much of our country's history has been shaped by men and women with origins in this country, and I think it's only fitting that we celebrate this Ryder Cup right here this year and I am so honoured to be here.

Thank you to all you Irish fans and European fans, I want you to have a great time, enjoy yourself and have a lot of fun.

To the American fans here, to our family, to our friends, we want to give you something to cheer about.  You guys have a great time, too.

To Ian Woosnam, to Woosie and your team, I know the honour and the pride that you feel about being the captain.  You've done a great job.  I'm sure your family is very proud of you, you've got to be very proud of yourself and I'm sure your team is very proud of you.

And to the European Team, the best of luck, we have great respect for all of you, the best of luck to everybody.

(Applause)

Also watching the flag goes up reminds me of some very special friends we visited last week at Walter Reed Hospital in Washington, and I promised them when I got the chance that I would tell you guys that we support you and we love you.

(Applause)

And now it gives me great honour, great honour to introduce to you the Ryder Cup Team from the United States of America.  Assistant captain, Loren Roberts; assistant captain, Corey Pavin; Scott Verplank; Stewart Cink; Brett Wetterich; Zach Johnson; J.J. Henry; Vaughn Taylor; Chris DiMarco; David Toms; Chad Campbell; Jim Furyk; Phil Mickelson and Tiger Woods.

This is our team.  We promise to give you an event that you'll always remember, filled with sportsmanship, with compassion, with fierce competition, but with more than anything, with mutual respect.  Thank you very much.  God bless you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT