U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 29, 2017
Tom Lehman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell us about what was going right for the 5 under?
TOM LEHMAN: I had a really great group.  Olin played very well.  Michael played well.  Maybe didn't score as well as he was hoping, but he played well.  All three of us drove the ball in the fairway.  I think that was the key to the day.
It's a second shot course for certain, putting it in the right spots on the greens, but you can't do that if you don't drive it in the fairway.  At the end of the day, you've got to drive it in the short grass, and then you have to really be very strategic in where you want to put the ball on the greens and aim to spots versus aiming at the pins sometimes.  Give yourself chances where you can actually make a putt.
We all did that today, and I did that very well.  I had one three-putt where I left it way short, drove it in the rough.  Left it way short on the 11th hole.  Had a three-putter from about 60 feet.  Other than that, it was just a lot of good shots and some good putts.
Q. Conditions were ripe, though?
TOM LEHMAN: Yeah, they were perfect.  If there was any breeze blowing at all, it was hard to tell where it was coming from.  There was a little bit, I suppose.  But overcast, kind of muggy, the greens were holding, the grass was growing.  They certainly would slow it down.  The greens were a lot slower than they were even yesterday, I thought.
I had a little bit of difficulty with some of the speed of the uphill putts, but really, it was perfect for scoring.
Q. You had a 1 under par round here in '01 in the first round.
TOM LEHMAN: Yeah.
Q. Is it kind of strange to be in an Open with kind of green light opportunities?
TOM LEHMAN: I'm sure that there's -- if it was me setting up this golf course, I'd be scared to death about getting things, you know, too fast.  If they get too fast, it's going to be really difficult.  And so if anything, you err on the side of, well, look, I'd rather have guys shoot low than guys not be able to finish.  So --
Q. The greens are manageable?
TOM LEHMAN: But they are manageable.  I would think that, if they can manage them with the weather, they'll probably want to firm then up just a little bit, maybe get them just a slight bit faster.
Just seemed like the conditions for growing grass today was so good that the greens really slowed down as the day went on.
Q. You had that great run in U.S. Opens playing in the last group.  What would it mean to win a USGA title?
TOM LEHMAN: I've never won a USGA event of any kind.  Of course it would mean a great deal to me.  This has always been my goal in life.  If I could win any one tournament, it would be the U.S. Open.
So I didn't quite get there when I was younger.  Don't know if I'll get there when I'm older either, but I sure like the effort -- the trying.  I sure like setting that goal and trying to shoot for it.
Takes four good days of golf.  I've come close a couple times in the Senior Open and came up a little short, played very well in the one year Roger Chapman played amazing and kind of just took it from everybody.  So you have to tip your hat to guys like that when they do that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT